OCTOBER, TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

2S5 U. S.

ance was unnecessary. The proceeding was a cause in
admiralty. The surety upon a stipulation for release of
the vessel (lid not join in the appeal. Upon motion to
dismiss, the court said-" It is well settled that all parties
against whom a joint judgment or decree is rendered
must join in proceedings for review in an appellate court,
or that it must appear that those who have not joined
had notice of the application for the appeal or writ of
error, and refused or neglected to join therein." But, it
ruled that, though joint in form, the decree was separable
in law and fact and, therefore, the surety was not a necessary party to the appeal.
Considering former opinions of this Court and the long
established practice, we cannot accept as applicable to.
appeals here the doctrine approved in The New York. It
is out of harmony with Estis v. Trabue, supra, and other
cases cited above. We cannot undertake to explore the
record to ascertain what issues were relied upon in courts
below. So to do would lead to uncertainty and unfortunate confusion. We must accept the terms of the judgment as entered. As pointed out above, this is the approved practice when it becomes necessary to determine
whether a judgment is final or to what court a writ of
error should run. Like reasons apply and control here.
The appeal must be dismissed.
Dismissed.
BOWERS, EXECUTOR, v. LAWYERS MORTGAGE
CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 355.

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 1S, 19, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. A corporation which paid the capital stock tax laid generally on
domestic corporations by § 1000, Revenue Act of 1921, and which
claims a refund upon the ground that it should have been taxed
under the special provisions of § 246 relating to certain classes of

BOWERS v. LAWYERS MORTGAGE CO.
182

183

Counsel for Parties.

insurance companies, must show clearly that it is an insurance
company within the meaning of the Act. P. 1S6.
2. The question whether a corporation chartered under and subject to
state insurance laws was taxable under § 246 of the Revenue Act of
1921 as an "insurance company" is determined by the character
of the business actually done in the tax years. P. 188.
3. Guaranties of payment of interest and principal of mortgage loans,
held contracts of insurance. P. 189.
4. Of "premiums" and "investment income," the only classes of
income covered by § 246, supra, the former is characteristic of the
business of insurance and the latter is generally essential to it.
P. 189.
5. The taxpayer, although organized under and subject to the New
York insurance laws, with power to insure titles and loans on mortgage, confined itself mainly to a business which could also be carried on under the banking laws, viz., the business of lending money
on bonds and mortgages, selling the bonds and mortgages with its
guaranty, and using the purchase money to make additional loans.
Its "premiums" covered. agency and other services not generally
performed under contracts of insurance, in addition to the charges
for guaranties; the income from guaranties was less than one-third
of its entire income and no "investment income" was shown.
Held:
. That as the element of insurance was no more than an incident
of the lending business, the taxpayer was not an "insurance company" in the common understanding of that term and within the

meaning of the Revenue Act, supra. P. 190.
50 F. (2d) 104, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 606, to review the affirmance of a
recovery on a claim for a refund of money paid as taxes.
The action was against the executor of a former collector
of internal revenue. Dist. Ct., 34 F. (2d) 504.

Mr. Claude R. Branch, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. J. Loui Monarch, J. P. Jackson, Francis H. Horan, Clarence M. Charest, E. H. Horton, and Walter W.
Mahon were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry W. Forbes, with whom Mr. John A. Garver
was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.
Mr. JUSTICE BUTLER

285U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent voluntarily paid the capital stock tax imposed on domestic corporations by § 1000, Revenue Act
of 1921, 42 Stat. 294, for the fiscal years ending June 30
in 1922 and 1923. Thereafter it applied for refund on
the ground that it was an insurance company taxable
only under § 246, 42 Stat. 262. The claim was denied.
It brought this action in the federal court for the southern district of New York to recover the amount so paid.
The parties by written stipulation waived a jury and submitted the case on an agreed statement of facts. The
district court gave judgment for respondent. 34 F. (2d)
504. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 50 F. (2d)
104.
The question is whether on the admitted facts respondent was an insurance company subject to the tax imposed
by § 246 and therefore not taxable under §§ 230 and 1000.
Respondent was incorporated in 1893 under §170 (1)
of Article V of the Insurance Law of New York' as the
"Lawyers Mortgage Insurance Company" to examine
titles, procure and furnish information in relation thereto
and guarantee or insure bonds and mortgages and the
owners of real estate against loss by reason of defective
titles. In 1903, "insurance" was dropped from its name.
In 1905, its certificate of incorporation was amended to
include the making, and guarantee of the correctness, of
searches for instruments, liens and charges affecting real
estate and the guarantee of payment of bonds and mortgages.2 In 1913,' the certificate of incorporation was
further amended to include authority to insure payment
of notes of individuals and partnerships and bonds and
other evidences of indebtedness of corporations, when se1 Laws 1890, c. 690.
2 Laws 1904, c. 543.
'-Laws 1913, c. 215. And see Laws 1911, c. 525.

BOWERS v. LAWYERS MORTGAGE CO.
182

185

Opinion of the Court.

cured by real estate mortgages, and to "invest in, purchase and sell, with such guarantee [of payment] or with
guarantee only against loss by reason of defective title
or incumbrances, bonds and mortgages, and notes of individuals or partnerships secured by mortgages...
and bonds, notes, debentures and other evidences of
indebtedness of solvent corporations secured by deed
of trust or mortgages
" It was subject to supervision by the state superintendent of insurance and to the
laws applicable to title and credit guaranty corporations
and was required to file with such superintendent statements of its condition at the end of each year.
Respondent never has insured titles. In the tax years,
it carried on business as follows: Upon receiving an application for a loan it caused an appraisal of the proposed
real estate security to be made and procured a title insurance company to survey the property, make a report
as to title and insure the same. The borrower, having
executed and delivered a bond and mortgage to respondent, received from it the amount specified therein less
charges for title insurance, survey, disbursements and recording tax and less a lending fee which included the
charge for appraisal. Respondent sold the mortgage loans.
On the sale of a bond and mortgage as a whole, it delivered
an assignable contract called "policy of mortgage guarantee" to the purchaser. On the sale of part of a loan,
it issued a participation certificate assignable by indorsement and registration on respondent's books and containing substantially the same provisions as the policy. By
every such policy or certificate the purchaser appointed
respondent his agent to collect the principal and interest,
and the latter agreed to keep the title guaranteed and
the premises insured against fire and to require the owner
to pay taxes, assessments, water rates and fire insurance
premiums. Respondent guaranteed payment of principal, as and when collected but in any event within 18
months following written demand made after maturity,

OCTOBER TEM, 1931.
285U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

and payment of interest regularly at an agreed rate usually one-half of one per cent. less than that specified
in the bond. Respondent kept the difference and called
Respondent also retained the interest
it "premium."
accruing between the making of the loans and the sale
of the securities. For renewals of loans it charged extension fees.
It issued some policies of guaranty as to mortgage
loans which were not made or sold by it. While substantial in amount, that part of its business constituted but
a small percentage of the total. It made no assignment
or apportionment of assets to the different parts of its
business, but used them indiscriminately in its different
activities. It kept on hand sufficient bonds and mortgages to maintain the guaranty fund required by the Insurance Law. Corporations organized under the New
York banking laws and subject to its, banking department
are authorized to make loans and sell bonds, fmortgages
and participations therein with their guaranties under
the same general method of doing business as that of respondent. And at least two companies so organized and
supervised are carrying on that business.
Pertinent provisions of the Act are printed in the margin.' The general rule declared by § 1000 (a) is broad
'"Sec. 1000 (a) .... (1) Every domestic corporation shall pay
annually a special excise ... equivalent to $1 for each $1,000 of ...
its capital stock ...
"(b) The taxes imposed by this section shall not apply ... to any
insurance company subject to the tax imposed by section . . .246.

"Sec. 246 (a). That, in lieu of the taxes imposed by sections 230
and 1000, there shall be levied, collected and paid

. . .

upon the

net income of every insurance company (other than a life or mutual
insurance company) a tax as follows:
"(1) In the case of such a domestic insurance company the same
percentage of its net income as is imposed upon other corporations by
section 230; ...
"(b) ...

(1) The term 'gross

income'

means the combined

gross amount, earned during the taxable year, from investment income

BOWERS v. LAWYERS MORTGAGE CO.
182

187

Opinion of the Court.

enough to include respondent. But, if it was an insurance
company taxable under § 246, it was excepted from the
general rule by subsection (b). As such corporations
constitute a special class, respondent must be held liable
for the capital stock tax unless clearly shown to have
been an insurance company within the meaning of the
Act. Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 134, 146.
Heiner v. Colonial Trust Co., 275 U. S.232, 235. Choteau
v. Burnet, 283 U. S. 691, 696. The Act does not define
"insurance company" or definitely indicate criteria by
which corporations meant to be so specially dealt with
may with certainty be identified. General definition is
not necessary in order to determine whether, having regard to the purpose of the classification and the considerations on which it probably was made, respondent's
business brought it within the special class.
Under § 230, Revenue Act of 1918, 40 Stat. 1075, insurance companies were taxed as were other business corporations. The applicable definition of gross income was
comprehensive and included gains, profits and income
derived from any source whatever. § 213, p. 1065. It
was substantially the same in the 1921 Act. § 213, 42
Stat. 237. But § 246 of the latter Act dealt with certain
classes of insurance companies separately and defined
and from underwriting income as provided in this subdivision, computed on the basis of the underwriting and investment exhibit of the
annual statement approved by the National Convention of Insurance
Commissioners;
"(2) The term 'net income' means the gross income as defined in
paragraph (1) of this subdivision less the deductions allowed by section 247;
"(3) The term 'investment income' means the gross amount of
income earned during the taxable. year from interest, dividends and
rents ...

"(4) The term 'underwriting income' means the premiums earned
on insurance contracts duringthe taxable year less losses incurred and
expenses incurred; . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

gross income to be "investment income," i. e., interest,
dividends and rents, and " underwriting income," i. e.,
premiums earned less losses and expenses. Capital gains
and income from other sources were omitted.
A statement showing respondent's lending fees, extension fees, interest and premiums follows:
Year

Lending Fees Extension Fees

1922 ....... $655,283.70
1923 ....... 990,855.37

$214,303.56
73,745.71

Interest
$372,795.12
426, 842.31

Premiums 5
$619,986.38
750, 803.21

While name, charter powers, and subjection to state
insurance laws have significance as to the business which
a corporation is authorized and intends to carry on, the
character of the business actially done in the tax years
determines whether it was taxable as an insurance company. United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156, 168.
Weiss v. Steam, 265 U. S. 242, 254. Evidently that was
the basis of the classification. Congress did not intend to
exempt from the capital stock tax under § 1000 (a) and
the income tax under § 230 corporations not doing insurance business even though organized under and subject
to state insurance laws.
The dropping of " insurance" from respondent's name
and the extension of charter powers to the purchase and
sale of mortgage loans suggest purpose to carry on an
investment rather than an insurance business. Respondent did not consider itself an insurance company taxable under § 246 until after it had twice made and paid
capital stock taxes under § 1000(a) and income taxes under § 230. The lending of money on real-estate security,
the sale of bonds and mortgages given by borrowers and
use of the money received from purchasers to make addi5 These amounts are derived from interest collected by respondent
from borrowers in excess of the rates payable to purchasers under the
contract of sale and from charges on policies covering mortgage loans
not made or sold by it.

BOWERS v. LAWYERS MORTGAGE CO.
182

189

Opinion of the Court.

tional loans similarly secured constituted its principal
business. Undoubtedly the guaranties contained in the
policies and participation certificates were in legal effect
contracts of insurance. Tebbets v. Mercantile Credit
Guarantee Co., 73 Fed. 95, 97. Guarantee Co. v. Mechanics' Bank & Trust Co., 80 Fed. 766, 772. State ex rel.
Peach Co. v. Bonding & Surety Co., 279 Mo. 535, 553, 556;
215 S. W. 20. People v. Potts, 264 Ill. 522, 527; 106 N. E.
524. People v. Rose, 174 Ill. 310; 51 N. E. 246.
Commonwealth v. Wetherbee, 105 Mass. 149, 160. Shakman v. United States Credit System Co., 92 Wis. 366, 374;
66 N. W. 528; Young v. American Bonding Co., 228 Pa.
373, 380; 77 Atl. 623. These guaranties furnished purchasers additional security and were calculated to make
the loans desirable as investments and readily saleable at
a profit.
The lending fees, extension fees and accrued interest
appertain to the business of lending money rather than
to insurance, and may not reasonably be attributed to
the subordinate element of guaranty in respondent's mortgage loan business. The so-called premiums amount to
about one-third of total income, but they cover agency
and other services which generally are not performed
under contracts of insurance. There is no showing that
these amounts do not include profits arising from such
sales or that they are justly chargeable or were intended
to apply only to the risks covered. Respondent has not
established any basis upon which the interest so retained
may reasonably be charged or apportioned to the element of insurance involved in such transactions. And the
stipulation in respect of policies issued on loans not made
by respondent is too vague.to be given weight.
"Premiums " are characteristic of the business of insurance, and the creation of "investment income " is generally, if not necessarily, essential to it. Section 246 does
not cover any other class of income. It is not shown that

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

respondent had any investment income within that section. Evidently its guaranties produced less than onethird of its income.
Respondent's business is one which may be and is in
fact carried on by corporations organized under the New
York banking laws. The element of insurance may not
properly be regarded as 'more than an incident thereof;
it certainly is not sufficient to make respondent an "insurance company" within the meaning of that phrase
as it is commonly used and understood. There is no warrant for holding that Congress intended to use the expression in any other sense. Miller .v. Robertson, 266
U. S. 243, 250. Sacramento Navigation Co. v. Salz, 273
U. S. 326, 329R-330.
This case is not, as respondent contends, ruled against
the Government by United States v. Loan & Bldg. Co.,
278 U. S. 55. The opinion in that case shows that loan
4nd building associations exempt from taxes under Revenue Acts of 1918 and 1921 are not strictly confined to
the raising of funds by subscription of members, for the
making of advances to members to enable them to build
or buy houses of their own; that the outside operations of
the association there considered were not so related to
mere money-making as to constitute a gross abuse of the
name, and that the receiving of deposits on interest and
making of loans to non-members did not disqualify it
for the exemption.
In the case before us, respondent's charter authority
extended not only to the business of insurance but also
to other lines, including that of investment, with or without guaranties as it might ch6ose. As above shown, the
element of guaranty involved ir its transactions in the
tax years was not sufficient to make it an insurance
company.
Judgment reversed.

