GALVESTON WHARF CO. -v. RY. CO.
119

Syllabus.

therein arbitrarily to fix and maintain costs as respects
the distributing company which do not represent the true
value of the service rendered, the state authority is entitled to a fair showing of the reasonableness of such costs,
although this may involve a presentation of evidence
which would not be required in the case of parties dealing
at arm's length and in the general and open market,
subject to the usual safeguards of bargaining and competition.
The judgment of the court below was right and it is
Affirmed.
GALVESTON WHARF CO. ET AL. v. GALVESTON,
HARRISBURG & SAN ANTONIO RAILWAY CO.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.
No. 411.

Argued January 22, 25, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. Evidence held sufficient to support a finding by a state court that
goods constituting a through water-and-rail shipment had been
delivered by the water carrier, a steamship company, to a wharf
company, by being unloaded on the wharf company's pier and left
there under the full control of the wharf company, to be handled
and forwarded by it at its own convenience. P. 132.
2. A through bill of lading issued by the initial carrier upon an interstate shipment, governs the entire transportation and fixes the obligations of all participating carriers in so far as its terms are
applicable and valid. P. 134.
3. A clause in a bill of lading issued by the initial carrier for a through
shipment, providing that the carrier in possession of the goods
should be liable as at common law for any loss or damages,-held
applicable to a wharf company, an intermediate common carrier
furnishing a necessary link in the transportation, although not
named in the bill. P. 135.
4. The wharf company could not escape liability in such case upon the
grounds (a) that, by arrangement with the connecting carrier to
which it was to deliver the goods it was but the agent of the latter
(Missouri Pac. R. Co. v. Reynolds Co;, 268 U. S. 366, distinguished,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioners.

285U.S.

or (b) that, under its own filed tariff, it could be held only for
negligence. Pp. 135-136.
Affirmed.

CERTIoRAi, 284 U. S. 608, to review a judgment reversing that of the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas, and affirming that of a District Court of the State holding the
petitioner Wharf Company liable for goods that were
burned in transituwhile on its pier.
Mr. George S. Wright, with whom Messrs. Alex F.
Weisberg and Rhodes S. Baker were on the brief, for
petitioners.

At the time of the damage the shipment was in the
possession of the steamship company and not in the possession of the wharf company.
The holding of the Supreme Court of Texas to the effect that at the time of the fire the wharf company held
the shipment as a connecting carrier is in direct conflict
with the holding in Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. ReynoldsDavis Grocery Co., 268 U. S. 366. Texas & Pac. Ry. Co.
v. Scoggins & Brown, 90 S. W. 321; St. Louis S. W. Ry.
Co. v. Jackson, 118 S. W. 853; Chicago, R. I. & G. Ry. Co.
v. Young & Ball, 107 S. W. 127; Rio Grande Ry. Co. v.
Kraft & Medero, 212 S. W. 981; Lancaster v. Hollebecke,
235 S. W. 1115; Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Henson, 132 S. W.
1118; Hooper v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 9 Am. Rep.
443; Wilbur v. Wabash Ry. Co. 129 S. W. 484; Atlanta
Nat. Bank v. Southern Ry. Co., 106 Fed. 623.
If at the time of the fire the shipment was in possession of the wharf company, the provisions of its tariff filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission were a part
of the contract between it and the carriers named in the
bill of lading. The provision of such tariff to the effect
that the wharf company should not be liable for damages
to the shipment except for its negligence is valid, and as
all claims of negligence were abandoned, the Wharf com-

GALVESTON WHARF CO. v. RY.CO.
127

129

Argument for Petitioners.

pany was not liable for the loss. Neither the steamship
company, named in the bill of lading as an intermediate
carrier, nor the railway company, named in the bill of
lading as the delivering carrier, was required to use the
services of the wharf company in transferring shipments
from the steamship company's docks to the cars of the
railway company. They could have made arrangements
for motor trucks or some other means of transportation
to transfer such shipments. The shipper -named in the
bill of lading made a contract with the steamship company and the railway company under the terms of which
those carriers agreed to transport his property from New
York to El Paso. The shipper did not make any contract with the wharf company. The wharf company filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission tariffs covering certain services itwas willing to render the steamship
company and the railway company at Galveston.
These tariffs were furnished to the steamship company
and the railway company prior to the shipment in this
case. When the carrier named in the bill of lading employed the wharf company to render the loading and
switching service, such employment was under this tariff, and the tariff provision limited the liability to negligence. Boston & Maine R. Co. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97;
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Cramer, 233 U. S.490; Cau
v. Texas Pac. Ry. Co., 194 U. S.427; Arthur v. Texas &
Pac. Ry. Co., 204 U. S. 506.
The principle is the same whether the limitation of
the carrier's liability is contained in a tariff forming part
of a switching contract or in a contract in the form of a
bill of lading.
The fact that the bill of lading, to which the wharf
company was not a party, does not contain any provision
limiting the liability of the carrier therein named to a
liability for negligence does not affect the validity of the
137818°-32--9

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

provision of the contract between the carriers named in
the bill of lading and the wharf company.
Mr. John P. Bullington for the Galveston, Harrisburg
& San Antonio Ry. Co., respondent.
Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper, with whom Mr. Burton H.
White was on the brief, 'for the Mallory Steamship Co.,
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion

of the Court.
The American Grocery Company and others brought
this action against the Mallory Steamship Company, the
Galveston Wharf Company, and the Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Railway Company to recover the
value of, a carload of sardines destroyed by fire at Galveston, Texas, while en route to El Paso in that State.
The goods had been shipped from Maine to El Paso on
a through bill of lading issued by the Seaport Navigation Company and describing the route as "Mallory,
The Mallory Steamship Company
Southern Pacific."
had transported the goods from New York to Galveston,
and At the time of the fire the goods were on the pier
'which that company had leased from the Galveston
Wharf Company. The latter company, a chartered
tranoportation company not named in the bill of lading,
owned, in addition to certain piers, railroad trackage
from these piers to connections with railroads running out
of Galveston, including that of the Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Railway Company, that being the
Southern Pacific line described in the bill of lading as the
delivering carrier. There was no attempt to prove negligence on the part of any of the defendants. The District Court, a jury being waived, held that the goods had
been delivered by the Mallory Steamship Company to

GALVESTON WHARF CO. v. RY. CO.
127

:131

Opinion of the Court.

the Galveston Wharf Company, that the latter was in
possession of the goods as a common carrier, and that
at the time of the loss they had not been delivered to
the Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Railway Company. The judgment, entered in the District Court
against the Wharf Company, was reversed by the Court
of Civil Appeals which directed judgment against the
Railway Company upon the ground that the Wharf Company was acting as a transfer agent for the Railway Company and was not liable for the loss. 13 S. W. (2d) 983.
The Supreme Court of the State reversed the judgment
of the Court of Civil Appeals and affirmed that of the
District Court. 25 S. W. (2d) 588, 36 S. W. (2d) 985.
This Court granted a writ of certiorari.
The Wharf Company, petitioner, in the view that the,
question of the liability of carriers under an interstate
bill of lading is governed by the Federal decisions,' contends that the state court erred in holding (1) that the
possession of the shipment at the time of the fire had
passed from the Steamship Company to the Wharf Company, (2) that the Wharf Company had possession as a
connecting carrier and not as agent of the railroad carrier named in the bill of lading, and (3) that the Wharf
Company was liable as insurer of the shipment when its
filed tariff provided that it should not be liable save for
its negligence. The American Grocery Company, plaintiff in the action (which joined in the Wharf Company's
petition for certiorari) contends that it is entitled to
recover "from some one of the three defendants in the
trial court" and that it is the Steamship Company which
should be held liable. The Railway Company, respondent, also urges that there had been no delivery of the
goods by the Steamship Company, and further that, if
'Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632, 636; Georgia,Florida
& Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190, 194, 195;
Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Reynolds-Davis Grocery Co., 268 U. S. 366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

such delivery had been made, the Wharf Company held
the goods as common carrier and not as the Railway Company's agent, and that the tariff of the Wharf Company
was inapplicable.
First. The Court of Civil Appeals, while reversing the
judgment of the District Court, did not disturb the finding that the Steamship Company had delivered the goods
to the Wharf Company, but on the contrary reaffirmed it.
The Supreme Court held that this finding was supported
by evidence and reached its conclusion upon that basis.
The petitioners insist that the three courts were in error
and that the finding is opposed to the undisputed evidence. We are unable to agree with this contention.
The tracks of the Wharf Company were on the pier and
there the Steamship Company and the Wharf Company
had adjoining offices. The Wharf Company had its own
force of men on the pier to handle the shipments for rail
transportation. It was the practice to have cars spotted
conveniently to receive the shipments according to the
routing. The Steamship Company placed the goods on
the pier in convenient locations where the Wharf Company, which according to custom had already received
the billing and had full information of the shipments,
could load them into the waiting cars.2 In the instant
'The testimony of the General Manager of the Wharf Company
contains the following:
"It is our privilege to begin loading as soon as it is put on the
wharf, unless a hold order is put on some specific shipment, which
happens only occasionally. So that as soon as freights were deposited on the wharf by the forces of the Mallory, there was nothing to
prevent our forces from immediately picking it up and trucking it to
the cars. That was all left to the judgment and discretion of the
Galveston Wharf Company's supervisor of forces on the docks. It
was not a matter within the control of the Mallory Line. . ..
As the freights were placed on the wharf by the Mallory Line, it
was purely a matter of the Wharf Company to determine just how
and when to load the particular shipment in the usual manner.
• . . It is the Mallory Line's usual performance to deposit it on
the floor, and it is picked up and loaded into the cars by the Gal-

GALVESTON WHARF CO. v. RY. CO.
127

133

Opinion of the Court.

case, it appeared that the ship had arrived early in the
morning (January 13, 1926) and had been fully discharged by five-thirty o'clock in the afternoon; that, as
the goods were unloaded, they were put in the usual manner in suitable locations for the picking up and loading:
into cars by the Wharf Company; that out of 1081 tons
so discharged on that day and put in the designated
places, the Wharf Company had actually- loaded into cars
all but 379 tons, and that carloads similarly routed, and
placed in approximately the same location as the shipment here involved, had been so loaded. There was evidence that the latter shipment had been suitably placed
on the wharf before four o'clock in the afternoon, and
was ready by that time for loading by the Wharf Company and completely at its disposal,3 but the Wharf Comveston Wharf Company. As to the particular time it is picked up,
that is wholly in control of the Wharf Company. After it had been
placed, and it was 0. K.'d to go, we were at liberty to pick it up and
send it forward at any time we got ready, and it was not necessary
for us to ask permission of the Mallory Line about it. Unless there
is some special feature connected with it, as a hold order, the usual
course is to load it and get rid of it. So far as the actual physical
handling of the shipment from the time it is put, and assuming that
it is ready to go, that is under the control of the Wharf Company."
'There was testimony by the chief dock clerk of the Steamship
Company as follows:
"After we placed the shipment in the designated territory, that is
all we have to do with it. If we have broken cases, we set them aside,
and the Mallory Line coopers come along and put them into condition,
and we are through with it, and it is ready for the Wharf Company to
load out. . . . Some of these packages were broken, not a large
amount. They were put into condition that day. I would say that
this particular carload of sardines was ready to be put on the cars
before 4:00 o'clock. After that time we had nothing to do with it.
The Mallory Line was through with it. As to whether any of the
representatives of the Wharf Company or railroad company had examined this shipment, I say they had. When the damaged cases were
recoopered, they put the 0. K. mark on them after we recoopered
them."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

pany stopped work about six-thirty o'clock without loading it, and that it was burned that night. Questions are
raised with respect to notice of readiness for loading and
as to the checking of the shipment, but it cannot be said
that the testimony is so clear and definite on these subjects as to preclude a finding of delivery to the Wharf
Company. No receipt had been given by the Wharf
Company, but the state court found, upon evidence, that
the Steamship Company did not require the Wharf Company to give receipts before it removed shipments from
the wharf and that receipts were often given a considerable time after such removal. On points where the testimony permitted conflicting inferences, the state court
was entitled to reach its conclusion that the shipment had
been placed under the complete control of the Wharf
Company to be handled according to its own convenience
and hence should be deemed to have been delivered to
the Wharf Company.
Second. The Wharf Company did not dispute-that it
was a common carrier. As such, it had facilities and ;endered service. It is also manifest that it received the
goods for transportation to the connection with the Railway Company that was to take them to destination.
This service of the Wharf Company was that of a common carrier furnishing a necessary link in the transportation under the through bill of lading. The Wharf Company was thus in fact and in law a connecting carrier,
and that it was not named in the bill of lading is unimportant. The bill of lading, required to be issued by the
'See Pratt v. Railway Co., 95 U. S. 43, 46; Merriam v. Hartford &
New Haven R. Co., 20 Conn. 354; Converse v. Norwich & New York
TransportationCo., 33 Conn. 166; Washburn Crosby Co. v. Boston &
Albany R. Co., 180 Mass. 252; 62 N. E. 590; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Clayton, 173 U. S. 348; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Reiss, 183 U. S.
621; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Callender, 183 U. S. 632; OregonWashington R. & N. Co. v. McGinn, 258 U. S. 409, 413.

GALVESTON WHARF CO. v. RY. CO.
127

135

Opinion of the Court.

initial carrier upon an interstate shipment, 'governs the
entire transportation and thus fixes the obligations of all
participating carriers to the extent that the terms of the
bill of lading are applicable and valid.' Georgia, Florida
& Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190,
194, 195. See, also, Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v.
Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 648; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Galbreath Cattle Co., 271 U. S. 99, 102. Under such a bill of
lading, each connecting carrier may be sued for damages
occurring while the goods are in its possession, and its
liability 'is fixed by the applicable valid terms of the
original bill.' It may not vary the terms of the through
bill. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Ward, 244
U. S. 383, 387; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v Leatherwood,
250 U. S. 478, 480; Cobb v. Brown, 193 Fed. 958. In this
instance, the bill of lading provided that the carrier in
possession of the property described "shall be liable as
at common law for any loss thereof or damage thereto,
except as hereinafter provided." The Wharf Company
became subject to this liability and did not bring itself
within any of the exceptions stated in the bill.
The Wharf Company was not entitled to escape this
liability upon the ground that it was acting as the agent
of the Railway Company. The case of Missouri Pacific
R. Co. v. Reynolds-Davis Grocery Co., 268 U. S. 366, upon
which the petitioners rely, is not in point. There, the
Missouri Pacific, the delivering carrier named in the bill
of lading, had employed the St. Louis-San Francisco to
perform a switching service in making the required delivery at the place of destination. The court held that
the Missouri Pacific was the delivering carrier and was
liable as such; it could not defeat that liability by the
employment of an agent for service at the terminal. In
the present case, the Wharf Company was the connecting
carrier in possession of the goods at the time of the loss
and was responsible accordingly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U. S.

Third. Equally unavailing is the Wharf Company's
defense based upon the provision of its filed tariff, that
it should be liable only for negligence. The respondent,
the Railway Company, insists that this limitation was by
its terms applicable only in connection with the rate for
the handling of traffic after it had been loaded into cars
and theft another rate without such limitation related to
the service in loading the goods from the wharf into the
cars. Apart from this contention, which is not without
force, it is sufficient to say that the attempted limitation
of liability in any event did not affect the plaintiffs who
were entitled to the transportation of the goods under the
conditions set forth in the through bill of lading pursuant
to which the Wharf Company was performing its service. As we have said, the Wharf Company was not entitled to vary the liability, as determined by the terms
of the through bill, by its arrangements with the Railway
Judgment affirmed.
Company.
BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. LEININGER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 426. Argued February 16, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.
1. Findings of fact of the Board of Tax Appeals, when not challenged
as unsupported by evidence, are conclusive on review. P. 138.
2. A husband who was a member of a partnership agreed with his
wife that she should be an "equal partner" with him in his interest
in the company and should share equally with him- the profits and
losses. Held:
(1) The agreement did not make the wife a member of the partnership without the consent of the other partners, but amounted at
most to an equitable assignment of one-half of what her husband
should receive from the partliership, she in turn agreeing to make
good to him one-half of the losses he might sustain by reason of his
membership in the firm. P. 139.

