HURLEY v. KINCAID.
Syllabus.

22

in my opinion the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be reversed and the case remanded to
the District Court, sitting as a court of equity, for consideration and decision upon the record made before the
deputy commissioner.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS

join in

this opinion.
HURLEY, SECRETARY OF WAR, v. KINCAID.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 457. Argued January 4, 6, 1932.-Decided February 23, 1932.
1. An owner of land lying within the proposed channel of the Bocuf
Floodway, part of the plan authorized by the Mississippi River
Flood Control Act, brought suit to enjoin the carrying out of the
work in the floodway and specifically to enjoin the receiving of bids
for the construction of the guide-levees therefor, claiming that if the
work should be commenced without proceedings first having been
instituted to condemn his land or the flowage rights thereon, the
United States would in effect be taking his property without due
process of law and without just compensation. Complainant conceded that the Act was valid and that it authorized those charged
with its execution to take his lands or an easement therein. Held,
that injunction was not the proper remedy, for if what was done, or
was contemplated, constituted a taking of the property, then under
the Tucker Act there was a plain, adequate and complete remedy at
law. P. 104.
2. The Fifth Amendment does not entitle the owner of lands taken for
public use to be paid in advance of the taking. Id.
he was injured, or that there is a difference between the latter defense
and the defense that the disability, if any, from which he suffers
resulted only in part, or not at all, from the employment in which he
claims to have suffered it, are propositions which employers will be
unlikely to accept until they have submitted them to the decision of
the courts. The effectiveness of this legislation will be lessened by
this opportunity for barren controversy over procedural rights and
by delayed or thwarted determination of substantive ones,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioners.

285 U.S.

3. Where large public interests are concerned and the issuance of an
injunction may seriously embarrass the accomplishment of important governmental ends, a court of equity acts with caution and
only upon clear showing that its intervention is necessary in order
to prevent an irreparable injury. P. 104, n.
49 F. (2d) 768, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S.

610, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of the
District Court enjoining petitioners from carrying out a
project authorized' by the Mississippi River Flood Control Act. The case is stated fully in the opinion.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Richardson and Messrs. G. A. Iverson
and Paul D. Miller were on the brief, for petitioners.
. The only flowage rights which § 4 of the Act requires
the United States to "provide" are those which the Secretary and the Chief of Engineers have determined to be
necessary.
The first paragraph. of § 4 has no general application
to the respondent's land. It applies only where the plan
contemplates the deliberate diversion, by eliminating or
diminishing existing flood protection, of destructive flood
waters over larrds not previously subjected to like destructive flood waters.
Neither the findings of the District Court nor the evidence establish that § 4 is applicable to the respondent's
land.

Assuming that § 4. requires the acquisition of flowage
rights over the repondent's land, the statute does not require that such tights must be condemned or purchased
prior to the construction of the proposed levees in the
Boeuf Basin.
If petitioners, are acting pursuant to a lawful statute,
they can not be enjoined even if their acts would. result
in a taking, But nothing which the petitioners have

HURLEY v. KINCAID.
95

Argument for Respondent.

done or propose to do constitutes a "taking." There
must be "an actual invasion or appropriation of land as
distinguished from consequential damage." Sanguinetti
v. United States, 264 U. S. 146, 149.
The bill is not based upon actual or threatened impairment of the respondent's rights, but "upon assumed potential invasions." Arizona v. California, 283 U. S. 423,
462. Where there has been no actual appropriation or
physical invasion, an injunction will not issue to interfere with the consummation of a public improvement.
If respondent is entitled to compensation, he is entitled to sue the United States upon an implied contract
in the Court of Claims, or in the District Court under
the Tucker Act. If the petitioners were not acting illegally, no cause of action against them as individuals existed, and the United States was an indispensable party
to the suit.
Messrs. Win. C. Dufour and Harry H. Russell, with
whom Messrs. T. J. Freeman, John St. Paul, Jr., and
G. L. Porteriewere on the brief, for respondent.
' The constitutional guaranty that property shall not
be taken for public use without just compensation by
agents of the State to whom this power is delegated, is
deemed to establish a right of so high and sacred a character that any threatened infringement of the right should
be restrained without consideration of the adequacy of
the legal remedy. Lewis, Eminent Domain, § 632; Pomeroy, Equitable Remedies, § 465; McElroyv. Kansas City,
21 Fed. 261; Bass v. Metropolitan R. Co., 82 Fed. 857.
The respondent has no remedy against what in legal
effect amounts to a taking of his property without just
compensation, except by injunction. Pine v. Mayor, 103
Fed. 337, St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Tulsa, 213 Fed. 87;
Ashland Elec. Power Co. v. Ashland, 217 Fed. 158; Toledo
v. Toledo Rys. & Light Co., 259 Fed. 450; Thornton v.
137818°-32--7

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

285U.S.

Road Imp. Dist., 291 Fed. 518; Wilmington Ry. Co. v.
Taylor, 198 Fed. 159.
Federal courts have the power to restrain unlawful, arbitrary, and unwarranted acts of federal officers.
There is no question of any claim resulting from the
construction of levees as such. There is no denial of the
right of the Government to construct standard levees or
adequate levees at this or other points. The denial is of
the right to construct what are known as guide levees-levees which will fix by design the Boeuf Diversion Channel, provided for in the adopted plan, and include respondent's land between the bounds of this designed
channel. Waters from the main channel of the Mississippi will be designedly diverted through this diversion
channel by what is termed a fuse-plug section, which
automatically functions when the river reaches a certain
stage. The purpose of this diversion channel is to protect other portions of the territory through which the
Mississippi flows, and the territory outside of these guide
levees. The suit is directed at the designed dedication
of this and other property within these guide levees, to
be flooded in the interest of the public at large.
The deprivation of its use, the elimination of its possibilities, the depreciation of its value resulting from being
dedicated and enclosed in a basin to be designedly flooded,'
is the taking of his property. Ambler Realty Co. v. Euclid,
207 Fed. 312; Richards v. Washington Terminal Co., 233
U. S. 546; Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S. 541; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269; Bedford v. United
States, 192 U. S. 217; Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon,
260 U. S. 393; United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316;
Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 324,
326; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445.
The Act says that the United States shall provide flowage rights, if they are necessary to carry out the plan;
and as some one had to be authorized to select places for
these flowage rights, the Secretary of War and Chief of

HURLEY v. KINCAID.
95

Opinion of the Court.

Engineers were designated; and in the present case they
have selected the lands of respondent.
The fact that it may be years before this diversion
channel is flooded and respondent's property absolutely
destroyed has no bearing whatsoever upon respondent's
right to protect himself in advance of a taking without
compensation.
Immunity of the Government from suit does not extend
to its officers when acting unlawfully. PhiladelphiaCo. v.
Stimpson, 223 U. S. 605.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On June 15, 1929, Kincaid brought this suit in the
federal court for western Louisiana against the United
States, the Secretary of War, the Chief of Engineers, the
Mississippi River Commission and its members, to enjoin
the carrying out of any work in the Boeuf Floodway
under the Mississippi River Flood Control Act, May 15,
1928, c. 569, 45 Stat. 534, and specifically to enjoin the
receiving of bids and awarding of contracts for the construction of certain guide-levees bounding the Floodway.
The Mississippi River Flood Control Act adopted the
Jadwin Plan for protection against floods. The Act provides for raising the levees generally three feet; for improving the carrying capacity of the main channel of the
river by revetment work; and for limiting the floodwaters in this channel to its afe capacity through the
provision of specified diversion channels. Among these
is the Boeuf FloodWay, which will carry excess floodwaters from a point below the mouth of the Arkansas
through the Boeuf Basin west of the Mississippi into
the backwater area at the mouth of the Red River. Such
diversion has taken place to some extent in the past,
when flood-waters have passed over, or through crevasses
in, the twenty mile section of the levee at the head of
the Basin, known as the Cypress Creek levee. Before

-

100

OCTOBER, TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S,

this section was completed, in 1921, the Boeuf Basin and
the parallel Tensas Basin, lying between it and the main
channel, served as natural overflow areas of the Mississippi in flood periods. The Plan leaves the Cypress Creek
section at its present height. But as the levees elsewhere
are to be raised three feet and materially strengthened,
preventing overflow at other points, the volume of water
passing into the diversion channel may be greatly increa3ed. Moreover, guide, or protection, levees running
in a southerly direction are to be built on either side of
the Floodway, which will direct the waters into a specified
channel of a width varying from ten to twenty miles; and
new levees are to be constructed which will cause this
Floodway to carry waters formerly overflowing into the
Tensas Basin. The maximum previous flow of water into
the Boeuf Basin occurred in. 1927, and is estimated at
450,000 cubic feet per second. Under the new Plan, the
flow may reach 1,250,000 feet per second in times of
extraordinary flood. The War Depart, 2ent' advertised
for bids for the construction of guide-leveeL for the Boeuf
Floodway, to be received June 17, 1929. To complete
the project will probably require ten years.
Kincaid owns a 160-acre farm in the Boeuf Basin at a
pbint 125 miles below the point of diversion. No part
of the guide-levees is to be built on his land; but the
land lies within the proposed channel of the Floodway.
He alleges that the project will expose his property to
additional destructive floods and thus subject it to a new
servitude; that the mere "setting apart [cf] this property as a flood way and diversion channel and
advertising for dnd receiving bids for . . . construction of the guide levees" casts a cloud upon his
title;' and that the Government is proposing to com'The allegation is: t' That the acts of the defendants in setting
apart this property as a floodway and diversion channel and in advertising for and receiving bids for the doing of the proposed work,
to wit, the construction of the guide levees and the contemplated acts

HURLEY v. KINCAID.
95

.101

Opinion of the Court.

mence the work without having instituted condemnation
proceedings. He charges that the acts of the defendants
in advertising for bids for the construction of the guidelevees, to be followed by the letting of contracts, without having taken proceedings to condemn his land, "will
mean the taking by the United States Government of
complainant's lands and properties without due process
of law and without just compensation."
All the defendants moved to dismiss the bill on the
grounds, among others, that the United States had not
consented to be sued, and that the bill disclosed no
ground for equitable relief. The District Court held that
the United States could not be niade a party, since it
had not consented to be sued; but overruled the motion
to dismiss the suit, on the ground that the United States
was not an indispensable party; that § 4 of the Act declares that "the United States shall provide flowage
rights for additional destructive flood waters that will
of the defendants in the awarding of contracts therefore [sic], have
already had the effect of casting a cloud upon the title of complainant
to his said lands and properties and have materially affected his use
and enjoyment of same and have materially affected and impaired
the value thereof. That, [as] the result of setting apart this area as
a floodway or diversion channel and the publication by defendants of
said advertisements for bids for the construction of the guide levees,.
this property has not only deteriorated in value but complainant's
title to same has been seriously clouded, his use of same has been
seriously affected, and complainant would be unable to borrow money
on said lands, sell or dispose of same, or interest persons in operating
said lands for farms or for any other purposes, owing to the fact that
the Government has indicated that it has taken possession or intends
to take immediate possession of this property for a diversion channel
or a floodway. That, as a. result of making this area, in which complainant's lands and.those of others are situated, a floodway-or diversion chhnnel, these lands will be rendered unfit for agricultural or
any other purpose. That the title to complainant's lands is seriously
clouded by said acts, and his ability to use said properties or obtain
credit thereon is seriously affected, and, as stated above, this property is well worth the sum of $9,000.00."

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

pass by reason of diversion from the main channel of
the Mississippi River" ; that, on the allegations of the
bill, the creation of the Boeuf Floodway would subject
Kincaid's land to additional destructive flood-waters;
that the Act required the Government to condemn, or
otherwise to acquire flowage rights over, the property
before proceeding with the flood-control project in the
Boeuf Basin; and that, by starting work before acquiring
such rights, the defendants were proceeding in violation
of both the Act and the Constitution. 35 F. (2d) 235.
Thereupon an answer was filed and the case was heard
on evidence on final hearing. The defendants showed
'The following are the provisions of the Act relevant to the pay-ment of damages and of compensation for the taking of land.
"Sec. 3. . . . No liability of any kind shall attach to or rest.
upon the United Stat~s for any damage from or by floods or flood
waters at any place: Provided, however, That if in carrying out the
purposes of this Act it shall be found that upon any stretch of the
banks of .the Mississippi River it is impracticable to construct levees,
either because such construction is not economically justified or because such construction would unreasonably restrict the flood channel, and lands in such stretch of the river are subjected to overflow
and damage which are not now overflowed or damaged by re!'son of
the construction of levees on the opposite banks of the river it shall be
the duty of the Secretary of War and the Chief of Engineers to institute proceedings on behalf of the United States Government to acquire either the absolute ownership of the lands so subjected to overflow and damage or floodage rights over such lands.
"Sec. 4. The United States shall provide flowage rights for additional destructive flood waters that will pass by reason of diversions
from the main channel of the Mississippi River. .
"The Secretary of War may cause proceedings to be instituted for
the acquirement by condemnation of any lands, easements, or rights
of way which, in the opinion of the Secretary of War and the Chief
of Engineers, are needed in carrying out this project, the said proceedings to be instituted in the United States district court for the district in which the land, easement, or right of way is located. . ..
The provisions of sections 5 and 6 of the River and Harbor Act of
July 18, 1918, are hereby made applicable to the acquisition of lands,
easements, or rights of way needed for works of flood control. ...

11URLEY v. KINCAID.
95

Opinion of the Court.

that, in the opinion of the Secretary of War and the Chief
of Engineers, it was unnecessary to acquire any flowage
rights over complainant's lands; insisted that these lands
would be better protected under the Plan than heretofore; and claimed that § 4 of the Act was not applicable,
because the Plan would not subject the property to "additional destructive flood waters." The District Court
found on these issues against the Government; held that
upon the evidence the Plan involved a taking of rights in
respect to Kincaid's land; and that although the physical
occupancy of it would not occur until the land had been
overflowed in time of flood, "the process of subjecting it
to that. service and the taking possession in so far as is
either necessary or contemplated by the act will -begin
with the construction of the first levee or works which are
intended to direct the water upon the land." It enjoined
the defendants, other than the United States, "from proceeding with the construction authorized by or carrying
out the plan adopted by . . . the Mississippi River
flood-control act in the Boeuf Basin flood way,
until the property of the said complainant has been acquired by the United States Government or the flowage
rights over the same acquired either by purchase or condemnation for such purpose." 37 F. (2d) 602. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the District Court. 49 F. (2d) 768. This Court granted ; writ
of certiorari.
We have no occasion to determine any of the controverted issues of fact or any of the propositions of substantive law which have been argued. Kincaid concedes
that the Act is valid and that it authorizes those entrusted
with its execution to take his lands or an easement therein. We may assume that, as charged, the mere adoption
by Congress of a plan of flood control which involves an
intentional, additional, occasional flooding of complainant's
land constitutes a taking of it-as soon as the Government

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

begins to carry out the project authorized. Compare
United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 469; United States
v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 328; Peabody v. United States,
231 U. S. 530, 538; Portsmouth HarborLand & Hotel Co.
v. United States, 250 U. S. 1; 260 U. S. 327, 329. If that
which has been done, or is contemplated, does constitute
such a taking, the complainant can recover just compensation under the Tucker Act in an action at law as upon
an implied contract, since the validity of the Act and
the authority of the defendants are conceded. United
States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645, 658; Great
Falls Mfg. Co. v. Attorney General, 124 U. S. 581, 600;
Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121, 129; Marion &
Rye Valley Ry. Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 280, 283.
The compensation which he may obtain in such a proceeding will be the same as that which he might have been
awarded had the defendants instituted the condemnation
proceedings which it is contended the statute requires.
Nor is it material to inquire now whether the statute does
so require. For even if the defendants are acting illegally,
under the Act, in threatening to proceed without first acquiring flowage rights over the complainant's lands, the
illegality, on complainant's own contention, is confined to
the failure to compensate him for the taking, and affords
no basis for an injunction if such compensation may be
procured in an action at law.3 The Fifth Amendment
does not entitle him to be paid in advance of the taking.
Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, 306. Compare Backus
v. Fort Street Union Depot Co., 169 U. S. 557, 568; Bragg
'Even where the remedy at law is less clear and adequate, where
large public interests are concerned and the issuance of an injunction
may seriously embarrass the accomplishment of important governmental ends, a court of equity acts with caution and only upon clear
showing that its intervention is necessary in order to prevent an
irreparable injury. Compare Osborne v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co.,
147 U. S. 248, 258, 259; New York City v. Pine, 185 U. S. 93, 97.
No such showing was made here.

PACKER CORPORATION v. UTAH.
95

Syllabus.

v. Weaver, 251 U. S. 57, 62; Joslin Mfg. Co. v. City of
Providence, 262 U. S. 668, 677; Dohany v. Rogers, 281
U. S. 362, 366. 4
As the complainant has a plain, adequate and complete
remedy at law, the judgment is reversed with direction
to dismiss the bill without prejudice.
Reversed.
PACKER CORPORATION' v. UTAH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH.

No. 357.

Argued January 20, 1932.-Decided February 23, 1932.

A statute of Utah forbids the hdvertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products on billboards, street car signs, and placards, but does
not apply to advertising in newspapers and periodicals, this exemption having been introduced to avoid conflict with the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution as construed by the State's highest court. A billboard company was convicted for displaying a
poster advertising a brand of cigarettes. Both poster and cigarettes
were manufactured outside of the State and shipped into it by a foreign corporation; and the advertising was done under contract with
an agency in another State. It was conceded that the regulation
of the local sale and advertising of tobacco products was within the
police power of the State. Held:
1. The amendment exempting advertising in newspapers and periodicals to avoid conflict with the commerce clause, did not produce a discrimination violative of the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 108.
2. It is a reasonable ground of classification that the State has
power to legislate with respect to persons Jn. certain situations and
not with respect to those in a different one: P. 110.
3. The discrimination between billboard and newspaper advertising was not an arbitrary classification. The legislature may recognize degrees of evil and adapt its legislation accordingly. Id.
'See also Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S.
641, 659; Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 400, 407; Adirondack Ry.
Co. v. New York, 176 U. S. 3'35, 349; Williams v. Parker, 188 U. S.
491, 502, 503; Manigault V. Springs, 199 U. S. 473, 485, 486; Hays v.
Port of Seattle, 251 U. S. 233, 238.

