OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

defendant's contention would be to hold that the posters,
because of their origin, were entitled to permanent immunity from the exercise of state regulatory power. The
Federal Constitution does not so require. Compare Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Commission, 236 U. S. 230,
240, 241. So far as the articles advertised are concerned,
the solicitation of the advertisements, it may be assumed,
is directed toward intrastate sales. Compare Di Santo v.
Pennsylvania,273 U. S. 34. Whatever may be the limitations upon the power of the State to regulate solicitation
and advertisement incident to an exclusively interstate
business, the commerce clause interposes no barrier to its
effective control of advertising essentially local. Compare
Jell-O Co. v. Landes, 20 F. (2d) 120, 121; International
Text-Book Co. v. District of Columbia, 35 App. D. C.
307, 311, 312.
Affirmed.

ST. PAUL FIRE & MARINE INSURANCE CO. v.

BACHMANN.
CERTIORARI

No. 311.

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

Argued January 12, 1932.-Decided February 23, 1932.

A fire insurance policy contained a warranty exempting the insurer
from liability for loss occurring while the hazard was increased by
any mcans " within the control or knowledge of the insured," and
another warranty exempting the insurer if loss occurred while
there were kept on the premises certain prohibited articles,. including gasoline. A rider altered this prohibition to the extent of permitting gasoline to be kept and used for the purpose of bottling
automobile oils "or for other mercantile purposes not more hazardous." Fire occurred during occupancy by a tenant engaged in the
illegal manufacture of intoxicating liquor who kept on the premises
a large quantity of gasoline for use in that connection. Held:
1. A determination of the hazard involved was essential to maintaining the defense under either warranty, P. 116.

ST. PAUL F. & M. INS. CO. v. BACHMANN.

113

Opinion of the Court.

112

2. The increase-of-hazard warranty is not violated unless there
is increase of hazard withi'n the knowledge and control of the
insured; the prohibited articles warranty may be violated irrrespeetive of the knowledge and control of the insured. P. 116.
3. Whether the business of operating moonshine stills was or
was not more hazardous than that of bottling automobile oils was
a question of fact for the jury. P. 117.'
.4. If the illicit business was more hazardous, the prohibited articles warranty was violated. Id.
5. An allegation in a specification of defense under the prohibited
articles warranty, charging the insured with knowledge and control,
is to be regarded as surplusage. Id.
6. The burden of proof w:s upon the insurer to show that the
occupancy was not one to which the gasoline permit extended.Id.
, 7. The court could not take judicial notice that the operation of
the stills w,.s more hazardous than bottling automobile oils or say
that it was not a mercantile purpose. P. 11S.
8. The defendant's failure to ask proper instructions3 does not
cure the error in instructions which were given, and to which
exceptions were taken. Id.
49 F. (2d) 158, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 605, to review a judgment affiriing a judgment against the insurance company in an
action upon a policy of fire insurance.
Mr. JamA M. Guiher, with whom Messrs. Russell L.

Furbee, Philip P. Steptoe, and Louis A. Johnson were on

the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Charles J. Schuck and Carl G. Bachrnann, with
whom Mr. J. Bernard Handlan was on the brief, for

respondent.
MR. JUSTiCE. BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This action to recover on a policy of fire insurance was
brought in the federal court for northern West Virginia

by Sophia C. Bachmann, a citizen of that State, against
137818*-32-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

the St. Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Company, a Minnesota corporation. The parties stipulated that the plaintiff was entitled to recover " unless the policy had been
forfeited and nullified by the alleged violations as set
forth in defendant's Specifications of Defense Nos. 1 and
2 filed in this case." The first specification recited the
Increase of Hazard Warranty: "Unless otherwise provided by agreement in writing added hereto, this company shall not be liable for loss or damage occurring (b)
while the hazard is increased by any means within the
control or knowledge of the insured "; and allegea that by,
means "within the knowledge and control of the plaintiff and her agent or agents" the fire hazard had been
increased. The second specification of defense recited
the Prohibited Articles Warranty: " Unless otherwise
provided by agreement in writing added hereto, this
Company shall not be liable for loss or damage occurring
.
there is kept, used or allowed on the
(d) while .
gasoline . . ."; and aldescribed premises . .
leged that "at the time of the fire complained of, and
prior thereto, large quantities of gasoline were being kept
upon and about the insured premises, all of which
was well known to the plaintiff and her agent or agents,
and was in violation of the foregoing condition and
warranty."
To each defense the plaintiff replied that the warranty
recited had been modified by a rider added to the policy;
and also that prior to the fire she had no knowledge or
control, as alleged, of the circumstances -relied upon as
showing, breach of the warranty. The rider set forth
in the reply altered the occupancy clause of the policy,
which had originally described the insured building as
" occupied as Produce Store,r so that it read, "occupied
for bottling automobile oils, offices, and other mercantile
purposes not more hazardous." Another clause of the
policy permitted the insured "for present and other occupancies not more hazardous" "to do such work and

ST. PAUL F. & M. INS. CO. v. BACHMANN.
112

115

Opinion of the Court.

to keep and use such materials as are usual in such
occupancies;" and a rule of the West Virginia Fire
Underwriters' Association (concededly a part of the insurance contract) provides that "the word ' materials' as
-used above, includes gasoline and such other materials as
are prohibited by the printed conditions of the policy,
when kept and used for such purposes as are usual to the
occupancies permitted." Gasoline is used in the business
of bottling automobile oils.
The case was tried before a jury. The defendant introduced evidence tending to show that the premises were
occupied at the time of the fire by a tenant engaged in
the illegal manufacture of intoxicating liquors; and that
a large quantity of gasoline was kept on the premises for
use in that connection. But it failed in its effort to prove
that the plaintiff had knowledge of these facts. The verdict was for the plaintiff.; and the judgment entered
thereon was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
49 F. (2d) 158. The writ of certiorari was granted because of alleged conflict with decisions of this Court and of
the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals.
The only error assigned here by the Insurance Coinpany relates to the construction of the Prohibited Articles Warranty, and to the Circuit Court of Appeals'
approval of the trial court's instructions with reference
thereto. It is contended that under that warranty, even
as modified by the rider, the presence of gasoline in connection with the use of the premises for the illegal manufacture of intoxicating liquors was an absolute bar to
liability, regardless of the plaintiff's knowledge or control
of the conditions; and that the trial court, in instructing
the jury that the defendant must establish the fact of
such knowledge and control, confused the requirements of
the Prohibited Articles Warranty with those of the Increase of Hazard Warranty, and in effect read the condition against the use of gasoline out of the policy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

2S5U.S.

In passing upon this contention, the Circuit Court of
Appeals said [p. 160]:
"At the time of the inspection by the agent of the insurance company, and the attachment of the rider to the
policy, the building was being used for the handling and
bottling of automobile oil, and it was shown that gasoline
was stored in the building, and that the agent of the insurance company, saw that gasoline was being used and
stored in the building. It was contended at the trial below that this rider constituted a permit for the handling
of gasoline within the building, and that its effect was to
remove gasoline from the prohibited articles warranty,
and that 'the quantity of gasoline, if greater than used at
the time of the issuance of the permit, brought this question into the increased hazard class. The trial court took
this view of the case, and we think properly so. The agent
of the insurance company knew that the rider permitted
the use of gasoline, at least to some extent, and in order
to show that the hazard was increased by a greater use
of gasoline, as a defense to the recovery by the insured,
the insurance company must under the terms of the
policy, as above discussed, bring such fact 'within the
knowledge and control' of the insured or her agent."
In so holding the court Was in error. Biecause of the
terms of the rider, a determination of the hazard involved was essential to maintaining the defense under
the Prohibited Articles Warranty as well as that under
the Increase of Hazard Warranty. But the twowarranties are distinct. The latter is not violated unless
there is increase of hazard within the knowledge and
control of the insured. The former may be violated if a
tenant keeps the prohibited article on the premises, even
if this was done without the knowledge and control of
the insured. Liverpool & London Ins. Co. v. Gunther,
116 U. S. 113, 128, 129; Gunther v. Liverpool & London*&
Globe Ins. Co., 134 U. S. 110, 116. Compare Imperial Fire

ST. PAUL F. & M. INS. CO. v. BACHMANN.
112

117

Opinion of the Court.

Ins. Co. v. Coos County, 151 U. S. 452, 463, 464. The
rider attached to the policy altered the prohibition
against gasoline only to the extent of permitting it to
be kept and used for the purpose of bottling automobile
oils, or for "other mercantile purposes not more hazardous." The court could not say as a matter of law
whether the business of operating moonshine stills was
or was not more hazardous than that of bottling automobile oils. Compare Royal Exch. Assur. of London v.
Thrower, 246 Fed. 768, 772; Phoenix Assur. Co. v. Franklin Brass Co., 58 Fed. 166, 171; Schaffer v. Hampton
Ins. Co., 235 N. W. 618. If it was more hazardous, the
presence of the gasoline constituted a violation of the
warranty. The question should have been submitted to
the jury.
It is urged on behalf of the respondent that the Insurance Company is not in a position to complain of this
error. Stress is laid on the circumstance that in its specifications of defense the Company alleged knowledge and
control by the insured of the presence of the gasoline and
the operation of the stills; and it is argued that the parties are bound by the issue as thus joined. But the pleading set forth the Prohibited Articles Warranty and asserted a defense under it. Any additional matter, which
might by implication be read as an attempted construction of the warranty, is to be regarded as surplusage.
Compare Lawrence v. Hyde, 77 W. Va. 639, 643; 88 S. E.
45; Lohr v. Wolfe, 71 W. Va. 627, 628; 77 S. E. 71; Jones
v. Sanitary District, 265 Ill. 98, 100, 101; 106 N. E. 473;
Hall v. Spaulding, 42 N. H. 259, 262. When the defendant later sought instructions that proof of knowledge and
control by the insured was not essential to establishment
of the defense, the plaintiff made no effort to show that
it had been prejudiced.
A more serious difficulty is that the defendant did not
itself seek proper instructions. The burden was upon

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U. S.

it to prove that the occupancy was not one to which
the gasoline permit extended. Compare Logan v. Provident Savings Life Assurance Society, 57 W. Va. 384, 390;
50 S. E. 529. Yet it presented no request that the jury
be instructed as to the meaning of the rider. Nor did it
request an instruction that the jury find whether the
occupancy at or before the time of the fire was more
hazardous than that of bottling automobile oils. Its request was merely that the jury be charged 'that the plaintiff could not recover if at and prior to the time of the fire
substantial quantities of gasoline were being kept on the
premises "either for the purpose of operating moonshine
stills or foi" any other purpose not permitted by the
policy." Thus, it requested the court to hold as a matter
of law that operating moonshine stills was outside the
scope of the permitted occupancies. The court could not
take judicial notice that the operation of the stills was
more hazardous than bottling automobile oils or say that
it was not a mercantile purpose.
But the defendant's failure to ask proper instructions
does not cure the error in the instructions which were
given, and excepted to. Compare Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Volk, 151 U. S. 73, 78. At the plaintiff's request the
.
trial judge charged that "unless the plaintiff
had control or knowledge of the keeping and using of
such gasoline or the operation of such stills, such keeping, using and operation . . . constitute no defense "; that "the defendant by the issuance of the
rider . . . is estopped to avoid the policy because
of the fact that quantities of gasoline were kept and used
upon the premises since the said rider permitted the bottling of automobile oils which according to the uncon,tradicted evidence contained gasoline." These instructions, while correct insofar as they bore upon the defense
under the Increase of Hazard Warranty, were erroneous
in respect to that under the Prohibited Articles War-

WESTERN DISTRIB'G CO. v. COMM'N.
112

119

Syllabus.

ranty. The fact that the defendant had incorporated
errors of law in the instructions which it sought upon the
second defense did not justify putting the case to the jury
solely upon the first. . Compare Westchester Fire Ins.
Co. v, Fitzpatrick, 2 F. (2d) 651, 654; Sutherland v.
Payne, 274 Fed. 360, 361; Rothe v. Pennsylvania Co.,
195 Fed. 21, 25; Audubon Bldg. Co. v. F. M. Andrews &
Co., 187 Fed. 254, 260. We are constrained to reverse
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, with directions that the case be. remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

thinks the judgment should

be affirmed.
WESTERN DISTRIBUTING CO. v. PUBLIC SERV-

ICE COMMISSION OF KANSAS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 337. Argued January 14, 1932.-Decided February 29, 1932.

1. Where a corporation selling natural gas locally procures its supply
by agreement in interstate commerce from a pipe-line company
with which it is so affiliated that the two are not at arm's length in
their dealings, the reasonableness of the interstate price is subject
to be inquired into by state authority when applied to by the local
company for permission to increase its local rate. Smith v. Illinois
Bell Telephone Co., 282 U. S. 133. P. 123.
2. A local distributor of natural gas, in a common corporate control
with an interstate pipe-line company from which it bought its supply in interstate commerce, sought to enjoin the enforcement of a
local rate in a partictilar city which the state commission had declined to increase without proof that the interstate price was reasonable. Held:
(1) Adjudications upholding the same wholesale rate in relation
to other cities of the State, in suits to which the city now in question
was not a party, do not make a prima facie case here. P. 125.

