OCTO
,I,7:R

TER\M. 1931.
Syl1:ibus.

2S5 U. S.

commerce, a burden is imposed on interstate commerce
by the difficulty, if not impossibility, of making the allocation.

So far as this argument is based on an interpre-

tati(,n of the statute which the state court has rejected,
it may be disregarded. The allocation required is only
to employment exclusively in intrastate service not embraced in the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The
state court thought that possible difficulties in making it
could be dealt with administratively by rules framed by
the State Insurance Commissioner, acting under authority
of the Act. In any case, it is not self-evident that the Act
is unworkable, and there is nothing on the record which
would enable us to say that such allocation is either impossible or so difficult as necessarily to impose any burden
on interstate commerce. See Interstate Busses Corporation v. Holyoke St. Ry. Co., supra, p. 52.
There are no findings andi the petitioner asked no ruling
with' respect to the point. There is no evidence from
which it could be inferred that the allocation could not
be made or that insurance could not -be effected at a cost
bearing a fair relation to the intrastate service to which
the Act applies. The burden was onl petitioner, who assailed the statute, to establish its unconstitutionality.
O'Gorman & Youwn, Inc. v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282
U. S. 251; Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v.
Glidden Co., 2S4 U. S. 151, 158. For the same reasons we
need not diseiss like objections based on the Federal
Safety Appliances Act.
Affirmed.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 339.

Argued February 15, 1932.-Decided March 1-1,
1932.

Enginer officers of the War Department, assigned to duty in connection with the improvement of rivers and harbors or the work of
the California Debris Commission, are not within the meaning of

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
240

Opinion of

tie Court.

the provisions of the land-grant acts and the so-ealled ocualization
agreements and joint military arrangements uhndr whiCh the Government is entitled to deductions from the regilari

commercial tates

for the trnnsportation of memlbers of the military forces or " troops
of the United States." P. 246.
72 Ct. Cls. 273, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 611, to review a judgment of 1he
Court of Claims, insofar as it allowed deductions from
charges for transportation of engineer officers assigned
to duty in connection with rivers and harbors improvement and the work of the California Debris Coimnission.

Mr. Charles H. Bates for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, and Messrs. Claude R. Branch and
H. Brian Holland were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner operates a railway system comprising
certain lines of railroad constructed with the aid of Congressional grants of public lands. During the years 19201923, both inclusive, the company, upon transportation
requests issued by the War Department, the Navy Department, and the Marine Corps of the United States,
transported military prisoners and their guards; officers
of the reserve corps traveling to and from encampments
under orders of the Secretary of War; members of the
nurse corps of the navy; engineer officers of the War
Department on duty in connection with river and harbor
works and the California Debris Comnmission; escorts
accompanying the remains of deceased soldiers; enlisted
men chang-ing station or returning thereto; officers of the
ar'my proceeding to their homes after date of their retiremnent; and stranded enlisted men of the navy traveling
I:;TS1N* -- 32-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

back to their proper stations. In settling petitioner's
accounts for transportation so furnished, or in adjusting
those previously settled, the United States, through its
disbursing officers, made or required petitioner to make
certain deductions from the amounts due at regular commercial fares, on the ground that the persons transported
were troops of the United States within the meaning of
the applicable land grant laws, appropriation acts, and
land grant equalization agreements. Payment on this
basis was accepted under protest. Suit was instituted in
the Court of Claims to recover the amounts deducted, the
claim being that none of the persons with respect to
whose transportation deduction. had been made came
within the purview of the statutes and agreements requiring the company to carry troops of the United States
at reduced fares. The Court of Claims entered judgment
for the petitioner on certain items of the claim, but as to
most of them found in favor of the United States. A
petition for certiorari was filed, and the writ was granted,
"limited to the question raised with respect to engineer
officers of the War Department in performing duties in
time of peace in connection with rivers and harbors improvements and the meetings of the California Debris
Commission."
A portion of what is now petitioner's railroad system
was granted aid by the Act of July 27, 1866 (14 Stat.
292). The act made the railroad a post route and military road, the charges of which should be subject to such
regulations as Congress might impose.1 With respect
'Act of July 27, 1S66; 14 Stat. 292, ยง 11. "And be it further enacted, That said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, or any part thereof,
shall be a post route and military road, subject to the use of the
United States for postal, military, naval, and all other government
service, and also subject to such regulations as Congress may impose
restricting the charges for such government transportation."
Section 18 of the same act made the same provision respecting the
Southern Pacific Railroad, now a part of petitioner's system.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
240

Opinion of the Court.

to the line in question the army appropriation acts plovide that'such railroad "having claims against the United
States for transportation of troops and munitions of war
and military supplies and property

.

.

.

shall be

paid out of the moneys appropriated by the foregoing
provisions only on the basis of such rate for the transportation of such troops and munitions of war and military supplies and property as the Secretary of War shall
deem just and reasonable under the foregoing provision,
such rate not to exceed 50 per centum of the compensation
of such Government transportation as shall at that time
be charged to and paid by private parties to any such
company for like and similar transportation; and the
amount so fixed to be paid shall be accepted as in full
for all demands for such service."As respects another division of petitioner's system the
grant of lands was under the Act of July 25, 1866 (14
Stat. 239, 241), which provided: "And said railroad shall
be and remain a public highway for the use of the government of the United States, free of all toll or other
charges upon the transportation of the property or troops
of the United States." This clause was construed in Lake
Superior & Mississippi R. Co. v. United States, 93 U. S.
442, as conferring only the free use of the roadbed as a
highway. Under appropriate legislation followiing that
decision payment of compensation has been made by the
United States for transportation of property and troops
at fifty per cent. of that charged to private parties. See
United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 249 U. S. 354.
See the Army Appropriation Act for the year ending June 30, 1921,
approved June 5, 1920 (41 Stat. 948, 960). The act contains ihe following proviso: "That nothing inthe preceding provisos shall be1(0strued to prevent the accounting oflicers of ihe Governuient from
making full payment to land-grant railroads for transportaion of
property or persons where the courts of the United States have held
tlhat such property or persons do not come within the scope of the
deductions provided for in the land-grant Acts: . .."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

The Government and certain railroads have entered
into so-called equalization agreements and joint arrangeinents for military transportation, which provide for deductions additional to the fifty per cent. required by the
statutes. The petitioner is a party to these agreements,
which have been construed generally as applying to
charges for transportation of the same classes of persons
to whom the laiid-grant rates would be applicable Both
the petitioner and the Court of Claims have so treated
these agreements and arrangements, and our decision
under the statutes may be taken to apply to deductions
under these contracts.
This court had occasion in the Union Pacific case
(supra) to pass upon the meaning and scope of the phrase
" troops of the United States " as used in the land-grant
legislation and in the agreements. What was there said
is apposite to expenditures under appropriation acts
which use the same phraseology and apply to transportation over petitioner's railroad. The opinion in that case
demonstrates that the word " troops" was intentionally

used in contradistinction to the words any persons in the
service of the United States, or their equivalent, and holds
that the word " troops " had, at the time of the passage
of the land-grant acts, and ever since has had, an established meaning, namely, " soldiers collectively-a body of
soldiers."
Thus the test is whether the person to be transported
is one of such a collective body of soldiers. The reduced
rate is applicable to a person so described, although he
may not be traveling as part of a detachment or moving
body of men. Illinois Central R. Co. v. United States,
62 Ct. Cls. 61; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
United States, 58 Ct. Cls. 33. In the Union Pacific ease
it was pointed out that although certain persons were
properly characterized as members of the army and as
having official relation thereto, they could not, at the
time of their transportation, be classified as part of the

SOUTHEIRN PACIFIC(CO. v. U. S.
240

245

()pinion "of ihe Cou rt.

troops of the United States, as, for example, a furloughed
soldier returning to his station, or retired soldiers en route
to their homes after retirement.
The narrow question presented for decision is whether
engineer officers cease to be members of the military
forces or " troops of the United States " when they are
assigned to duty in connection with the improvement of
rivers and harbors or the work of the California Debris
Commission.
While, as is argued by the United States, river and
harbor imprdvement has in one aspect a bearing upon the
military defence of the United States, obviously the principal purpose of this work is the promotion of commerce
and transportation, by inaintaiiing and deepening channels, and constructing (likes, jetties, and other works
which effect the improvement of navigation generally.
The California Debris Commission was created by the
Act of March 1, 1893 (27 Stat. 507), which authorized
the appointment of a, commission from officers of thQ
corps of engineers of the United States army, whose duty
was to mature and adopt a plan or plans to improve the
navigability of the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers
.in California, deepen their channels, and protect their
banks, with a view of preventing encroachment and
damage from debris resulting friomn mining operations,
natural erosion, or other causes, and restoring as far as
practicable the navigability of the rivers to the condition
existing in 1860. The Commission was to permit mining
by hydraulic processes, provided this could be done without injury to the navigability of the rivers or to the lands
adjacent thereto. Quite evidently this work is of a nonmilitary nature and in the interest of commerce and navigation.
Conceding that engineer officers of the United States
army perform a true military function when engaged in
work on the military'defences of the United States, and,
when so engaged form a part of the nation's troops, we

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opiniion of the Court.

285 U.S.

are of opinion that their activity in connection with
rivers anid harbors work and tie California Debris Commission is non-military in character, and falls within the
same category as that of many other employees and officials of the War Department. the nature of whose service excludes them from classification as part of the
troops of the United States."
Congress has recognized that such service by engineer
officers is non-military. For example, in the Army Appropriation Act for 1930, approved February 28, 1929
(45 Stat.. 1349, 1374, 1379), Title I deals with military
activities and expenses of the War Department incident
thereto. Title II has to do with non-military activities
of the War Department, and under the subtitle " Corps
of Engineers" makes appropriation for defraying the expenses of the California Debris Commission, and also for
the rivers and harbors improvement work of the United
States to be carried on under the control and supervision
of the Chief of Engineers of the War Department. The
Secretary'of War, in his annual reports, under the caption
"Civil Activities of the Corps of Engineers," mentions
rivers and harbors work and that of the California Debris
Commission.The Court of Claims held the view that, as respects
engineer officers employed in the capacities mentioned,
the Government was entitled to the deduction of fifty
per cent. under the terms of the land-grant acts and appropriations pursuant thereto, and other deductions under
the equalization agreement and joint military arrangements. For the reasons given, we are of the contrary
opinion, and accordingly reverse the judgment of the

Court of Claims and remand the cause for further proceedings in conformity herewith.
Reversed.
Typical reports are that for 1928, p. 25 et seq., and that for 1930,
pp. 9, 16, 17.

