OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U. S.

Third. Equally unavailing is the Wharf Company's
defense based upon the provision of its filed tariff, that
it should be liable only for negligence. The respondent,
the Railway Company, insists that this limitation was by
its terms applicable only in connection with the rate for
the handling of traffic after it had been loaded into cars
and theft another rate without such limitation related to
the service in loading the goods from the wharf into the
cars. Apart from this contention, which is not without
force, it is sufficient to say that the attempted limitation
of liability in any event did not affect the plaintiffs who
were entitled to the transportation of the goods under the
conditions set forth in the through bill of lading pursuant
to which the Wharf Company was performing its service. As we have said, the Wharf Company was not entitled to vary the liability, as determined by the terms
of the through bill, by its arrangements with the Railway
Judgment affirmed.
Company.
BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. LEININGER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 426. Argued February 16, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.
1. Findings of fact of the Board of Tax Appeals, when not challenged
as unsupported by evidence, are conclusive on review. P. 138.
2. A husband who was a member of a partnership agreed with his
wife that she should be an "equal partner" with him in his interest
in the company and should share equally with him- the profits and
losses. Held:
(1) The agreement did not make the wife a member of the partnership without the consent of the other partners, but amounted at
most to an equitable assignment of one-half of what her husband
should receive from the partliership, she in turn agreeing to make
good to him one-half of the losses he might sustain by reason of his
membership in the firm. P. 139.

BURNET v. LEININGER.
138

Argument for Respondent.

(2) The husband's distributive share of the net income of the
partnership was taxable to him individually under the Revenue
Acts of 1918 and 1921. Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111. P. 141.
(3) The wife's interest beingderived from and dependent upon
the husband's distributive share, taxation of the whole as his income
is not unconstitutional. Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U. S. 206,
distinguished. P. 142.
51 F. (2d) 7, reversed.
19 B. T. A. 621, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 608, to review a judgment. reversing an order of the Board of Tax Appeals.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, John H. McEvers, and Wilbur H.
Friedmanwere on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Irwin N. Loeser, with whom Messrs. Levi Cooke
and George R. Beneman were on the brief, for respondent.
The Board of Tax Appeals found as a fact that respondent's wife owned the corpus which produced the income;
the findings of fact made by the Board are, for the purposes of this case, conclusive.
Income is taxable only to the equitable owner of the
corpus which produces it. The cases upon which the
Government relies involve only an assignment or attempted assignment of income in futuro. Such cases
have no application to the facts of this one. Mitchel v.
Bowers, 15 F. (2d) 287; Bing v. Bowers, 26 F. (2d) 1017,
s. c., 22 F. (2d) 450. Cf. Commissioner v. Marshall Field,
42 F. (2d) 820, 822; Coplandv. Commissioner, 15 B. T. A.
238, s. c., 41 F. (2d) 501, 504; Parshall v. Commissioner,
7 B. T. A. 318; Thomas v. Commissioner, 8 B. T. A. 118;
Hallahan v. Commissioner, 14 B. T. A. 584.
Section 218 (a) of the Revenue Acts of 1918 and 1921
merely prescribes' that partnership income is taxable directly to its owners whether distributed or not. The
word "partner" is used as synonymous with "owner."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

The rule heretofore discussed applies where the assigned
corpus is part of a partnership interest.
The construction urged by petitioner is unconstitutional. O'Malley-Keyes v. Eaton, 24 F. (2d) 436, 438;
dissenting opinion in Mitchel v. Bowers, 15 F. (2d) 287,
289-292; Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U. S. 206.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The respondent sought a redetermination of deficiencies
in income taxes for the years 1920 to 1923. The question
related to the income earned on respondent's share in
a partnership known as the Eagle Laundry. Company,
doing business in Cleveland, Ohio. By virtue of an agreement made with his wife, respondent insisted that she was
' a full equal partner with him in his interest in the partnership', and that each should return and pay tax. upon
one-half of the income attributable to that interest. The
Commissioner determined that respondent was taxable
upon the whole of the income earned on his share in the
partnership, and the Board of Tax Appeals affirmed that
decision. 19 B. T. A. 621. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed the order of the Board, 51 F. (2d) 7, and this
Court granted a writ of certiorari.
The question arises under ยง 218 (a) of the Revenue
Acts of 1918 and 1921 (40 Stat. 1070; 42 Stat. 245) which
provided:
"That individuals carrying on business in partnership
shall be liable for income tax only in their individual capacity. There shall be included in computing the net
income of each partner his distributive share, whether distributed or not, of the net income of the partnership for
the taxable year
"
There is no challenge to the findings of fact made by
the Board of Tax Appeals as being unsupported by evilence, and they must be treated as conclusive. Phillips v.

BURNET v. LEININGER.
136

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 599, 600. Upon these findings, which are set forth in the margin,1 it cannot be
maintained that the agreement between the respondent
and his wife made her a member of the partnership. That
result could not be achieved without the consent of the
' The findings of the Board of Tax Appeals are as follows:
"In 1898 a partnership known as Eagle Laundry Company was
organized by petitioner and one M. G. Monaghan, each owning a onehalf interest. In 1904 Monaghan died and his wife, Mary T. Monaghan, succeeded to his interest in the firm and on the books of the
company. In 1920 Mary T. Monaghan transferred by bill of sale
her interest to her children. The entire Monaghan interest was thereafter carried on the books in the name of Marcus A. Monaghan. The
partnership returns for the years 1921, 1922 and 1923 filed by Eagle
Laundry Company disclose the partners to be petitioner and M. T.
Monaghan and the income to be distributable one-half to each. Each
of the three children of Mary T. Monaghan, however, returned a proportionate part of the income for taxation.
"During the latter part of 1920 a written agreement confirmatory
of a pre-existing oral agreement, was entered into between petitioner
and his wife, wherein it was acknowledged that petitioner's wife had
been and was a full equal partner with him in the interest in the Eagle
Laundry Company, entitled to share equally in the profits and obligated to bear equally any losses. The contract was effective from
the beginning of 1920. Tbe written agreement was not produced,
probably having been lost in a fire at the plant. The fact of this
transfer was communicated to Marcus A. Monaghan, who represented
the owners of the other one-half interest in the Eagle Laundry Company. The Leininger interest always stood in the name of C. P. Leininger on the partnership books but Mrs. C. P. Leininger returned onehalf of the profits of the Leininger interest for taxation.
"Petitioner and his wife maintained prior to and throughout the
period here involved a joint bank account on which each could draw
unrestrictedly. The profits received from the pArtnership were deposited in this account by Leininger, no checks on the partnership being drawn to the wife. After the execution of the agreement the wife
also maintained a small personal account in which were deposited
checks received on account of earnings on her personal investments.
Mrs. Leininger took no part in the management of the business and
made no contribution to its capital. There was never any formal
accounting between petitioner and his wife."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

other partner or partners,' and there is no finding of such
consent. The mere communication of the fact that the
agreement had been made was not enough. It does not
appear that there was any attempt to change the ownership of the partnership assets or the control of the partnership enterprise. It was the husband's interest that
was the subject of thd agreement.3 His wife was to be
an 'equal partner with him' in that interest. The business of the firm was continued as before. Complying
with the statute,4 the partnership returns, verified by
the husband for the years in question, stated that the
names of the partners were 'C. P. Leininger and M. T.
Monaghan, each owning one-half.' 19 B. T. A. at p. 623.
The 'Leininger interest' remained in the name of the
respondent on the partnership books. His wife took
no part in the management of the business and made no
contribution to its capital. The profits received from
the partnership went to the respondent, no checks on the
firm being drawn to the wife. Upon the facts as found,
the agreement with Mrs. Leininger cannot be taken to
Channel v. Fassitt, 16 Ohio 166; Pagel v. Creasy, 6 Ohio App. 199,
207, 208; McNamara v. Gaylord, 3 Ohio Fed. Dec. 543, 546, 1 Bond
302; Bank v. Carrolton Railroad, 11 Wall. 624, 628, 629; Burnett v.
Snyder, 76 N. Y. 344, 349; Cohan v. Commissioner, 39 F. (2d) 540,
542.
'See Nixon v. Nash, 12 Ohio St. 647, 650; Bank v. CarrolltonRailroad, supra; Case v. Beauregard,99 U. S. 119, 124; Burnett v. Snyder,
supra; Rockafellow v. Miller, 107 N. Y. 507, 510; 14 N. E. 433;
Mitchel v. Bowers, 15 F. (2d) 287, 288; Cohan v. Commissioner,
supra; Harris v. Commissioner, 39 F. (2d) 546, 547.
' Section 224 of the Revenue Acts of 1918 and 1921 (40 Stat. 1074,
42 Stat. 250) provided:
"That every partnership shall make a return for each taxable year,
stating specifically the items of its gross income and the deductions
allowed by this title, and shall include in the return the names and
addresses of the individuals who would be entitled to share in the net
income if distributed and the amount of the distributive share of each
individual. The return shall be sworn to by any one of the partners."

BURNET v. LEININGER.
136

Opinion of'the Court.

have amounted to more than an equitable assignment of
one-half of what her husband should receive from the
partnership, she in turn agreeing to make good to him
one-half of the losses he might sustain by reason of his
membership in the firm.
The respondent urges that the assignment to his wife
was of one-half of the ' corpus' of his interest and that
this 'corpus' produced the income in question. The
characterization does not aid the contention. That
which produced the income was not Mr. Leininger's individual interest in the firm, but the firm enterprise itself, that is, the capital of the firm and the labor and
skill of its members employed in combination through
the partnership relation in the conduct of the partnership business. There -was no transfer of the corpus of
the partnership property to a new firm with a consequent readjustment of rights in that property and management. If it be assumed that Mrs. Leininger became
the beneficial owner of one-half of the income which her
husband received from the firm enterprise, it is still true
that he, and not she, was the member of the firm and that
she had only a derivative interest.
The statute dealt explicitly with the liability of partners as such. Applying to this case, the statute provided
that there should be included in computing the net income of Leininger his distributive share of the net income
of the partnership. That distributive share, as he himself stated in his return on behalf of the partnership, was
one-half. In view of the clear provision of the statute,
it cannot be said that Leininger was required to pay tax
upon only a part of this distributive share because of the
assignment to his wife. The, case of Lucas v. Earl, 281
U. S. 111, is analogous. There the husband made a contract with his wife by which his salary and fees were to
be "received, held, taken and owned " by them as joint
tenants. The Court recognized that a forcible argument

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

was presented " to the effect that the statute seeks to
tax only income beneficially received, and that taking the
question more technically the salary and fees became the
joint property of Earl and his wife on the very first instant in which they were received." But the case was
deemed to turn on the import and reasonable construction of the taxing act. "There is no doubt " said the
Court, " that the statute could tax salaries to those who
earned them and provide that the tax could not be escaped by anticipatory arrangements and contracts however skilfully devised to prevent the salary when paid
from vesting even for a second in the man who earned it.
That seems to us the import of the statute before us
and we think that no distinction can be taken according
to the motives leading to the arrangement by which the
fruits are attributed to a different tree from that on which
they grew." Id., pp. 114, 115. This ruling was not disturbed by Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101, which pointed
out the distinction. Id., p. 117.
We find no reason to doubt the validity of the tax. The
Congress, having the authority to tax the net income of
partnerships, could impose the liability upon the partnership directly, as it did under the Revenue Act of 1917
(40 Stat. 300, 303), or upon the 'individuals carrying on
business in partnership ', as in the statutes here involved.
The Congress coulcq thus tax the distributive share of each
partner as such, as in Lucas v. Earl, supra, it taxed the
salary and fees of the person who earned them. A different situation was presented in Hoeper v. Tax Commission of Wisconsin, 284 U. S. 206, where the question related to the earnings of the wife and the income which
she received from her separate estate. For that which thus
belonged to her the Court held that her husband could
not be taxed. In the instant case, the right of the wife
was derived from the agreement with her husband and

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. TEMPLE.

143

Opinion of the Court.

136

rested upon the distributive share which he had, and continued to have, as a member of the partnership.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the order of the Board of Tax Appeals affirmed.
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
B'oard of Tax Appeals affirmed.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. v.
TEMPLE, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 453.

Argued February 17, 18, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

Evidence touching the cause of the derailment of a train held insufficient to warrant a finding of negligence on the part of the railroad
company. P. 147.
165 S. C. 201; 163 S. E. 644, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 611, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for damages in an action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act.
Messrs. Thomas W. Davis and Douglas McKay for
petitioner.
Messrs. John F. Williams and R. E. Whiting for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Judgment recovered by plaintiff (respondent here), in
an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act for
the death of her intestate, was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State. This Court granted a writ of certiorari. The question is whether there was sufficient

