552

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Syllabus

LEWIS

ET A.

397 U. S.

v. MARTIN, DIRECTOR, CALIFOR-

NIA DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL

WELFARE,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

No. 829. Argued March 3-4, 1970-Decided April 20, 1970
Appellants, recipients of Aid to Families With Dependent Children
(AFDC) assistance, brought this suit challenging the validity of a
California law and regulations that conclusively presume that the
income of a nonadoptive stepfather or a man assuming therole
of a spouse (MARS) is available to the children in computing
the AFDC assistance to which they are entitled. Appellants
contend that the state provisions conflict with the Social SecurityAct and Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW)
regulations thereunder providing that income from a nonadoptive
stepfather without legal obligation of support or a MARS may
not be treated as available to the children absent proof of actual
contributions. A three-judge District Court, holding the HEW
regulations invalid, dismissed the complaint. Held:
1. AFDC aid can be granted under the Social Security Act
only if "a parent" of the needy child is continually absent from
the home, the term "parent" including only a person with a
legal duty of support. King v. Smith, 392 U. S. 309, 313, 327.
Pp. 557-558.
2. The HEW regulation validly implements the Act since HEW
could reasonably conclude that only .aperson as near as a real
or adoptive father would be has, the consensual relation to the
family that makes it reliably certain that his income is actually
available for support of the children in the household. Pp.
558-560.
3,The State, which is foreclosed-from arguing that the assumption-of-income provisions comport with the Act as applied to
'MARS, may seek to show on remand only that those provisions
may be retained, under the Act as applied to nonadoptive stepfathers if it can demonstrate that their legal obligation under
state law is -consistent with that under federal law. P. 560.
312 F. Supp. 197, reversed and remanded.

, LEWIS v. MARTIN
552

Opinion of the Court

Anthony G. Amsterdam argued the cause for appellants. On the brief were Rubin Tepper, Steven J.
Antler, and Peter Sitkin.
Jay S. Linderman, Deputy Attorney General of California, argued the cause for appellees. With him on the
brief were Thomas C. Lynch, Attorney General, and
Elizabeth Palmer, Deputy Attorney General.
FrancisX. Beytagh, Jr., argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging reversal. • On the brief
were Solicitor General Griswold, Assistant Attorney General Ruckelshaus, Lawrence G. Wallace, and Alan S.
Rosenthal. Martin Garbus and Carl Rachlin filed a
brief for the Center on Social Welfare Policy & Law
et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.
MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellants are mothers and children who receive wel-

fare assistance under California law.1 At the time these
actions were commenced, California law provided 2 that
I Some of the appellants sue on behalf of themselves, their children,
a man assuming the role of spouse (MARS), and all others similarly situated. There are also intervenors who represent two
families, one with a stepfather and another with a MARS.
2 Cal. Welf. & Inst'ns Code § 11351 (1966).
On September 3, 1969, the Governor of California signed into law
a new § 11351.5 of the California Welfare and Institutions Code,
which became effective November 10, 1969.. It leaves unchanged
§ 11351 and implementing regulations insofar as they apply to a
stepfather, but repeals the old § 11351 insofar as it applied to "an
idult male person assuming the role of spouse." Under the new
law, a MARS "shall be required to make a financial contribution
to the family which shall not be less than it would cost him to
provide himself with an independent living arrangement." The
new law also provides that., under regulations to be promulgated
by the State Welfare Department, the MARS and the mother will
be required to present the Department with "all of the facts in conaection with the sharing of expenses ......

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

payments to a "needy child" who "lives with his mother
anda stepfather or an adult male person assuming the
role of spouse to the mother although not legally married to her"-known in the vernacular as a MARSshall be computed after consideration is given to the
income of the stepfather or MARS. ' The California law
conclusively presumes that the needs of the children are
reduced by the amount of income available from the
man in the house whether or not it is in fact available or actually used to meet the needs of the dependent
children.
Following our decision in King v. Smith, 392 U. S.
309, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
(HEW) promulgated a regulation reaffirming its earlier
rulings that the income of a man not ceremonially
married to the mother of the dependent children may
not be treated as available to the children unless there
is proof that he has made actual contributions.' Even
where the man is ceremonially married to the mother
but is not the real or adoptive father, his income may
not be treated as available to the children unless he is
legally obligated to support the children by state law.'
These suits by appellants were brought in a threejudge District Court to have the California law and
regulations declared invalid. That court dismissed the
3The

California regulations that governed a MARS at the
time these suits were brought were Cal. State Dept. of Social
Welfare, Public Social Services Manual §§ 42-535 (effective Nov. 1,
1967), 44-133.5 (effective July 1, 1967). As to a stepfather, the
pertinent regulations were id. §§ 42-531' (effective Nov. 1, 1967),
44-113.242 (effective July 1, 1967).
For criminal sanctions against a natural father who fails to support his children see Cal. Penal Code § 270; Cal. Welf. & Inst'nr
Code §§ 11476-11477 (1966).
4 45 CFR § 203.1.
5Id., § 203.1 (a).

LEWIS v, MARTIN
552

Opinion of the Court

complaints, holding the HEW regulations were invalid.
312 F. Supp. 197. The cases are here on appeal and we
noted probable jurisdiction. 396 U. S. 900.
The Social Security. Act defines a dependent child
as a "needy child . . . who has been deprived of parental support or care by reason of the death, continued
absence from the home, or physical or mental incapacity
of a parent, and who is living with" a specified relative.
§ 406 (a), 49 Stat. 629, 42 U. S. C. § 606 (a). This is
the Aid to Families With Dependent Children (AFDC)
program which we discussed in King v. Smith.
The federal statute provides that state agencies administering AFDC plans "shall, in determining need
[of an eligible child], take into consideration any other
income and resources [of the child] . .. as well as any
expenses reasonably attributable to the earning of any
such income." 42 U. S. C. § 602 (a) (7) (1964 ed., Supp.
IV).
This directive was implemented by a regulation of
HEW, effective July 1, 1967, which, as then worded,
provided in part:
"[O]nly income and resources that are, in fact,
available to an applicant or recipient for current use
on a regular basis will be taken into consideration in
determining need and the amount of payment." 6 '
We stated in King v. Smith, supra, at 319 n. 16, that
those regulations "clearly comport with" the Act. And
as we have noted, shortly after King v. Smith, HEW
6 HEW Handbook of Public Assistance Administration, pt. IV,
§ 3131.7. In its present form the regulation provides:
"(ii) . . . in establishing finarcial eligibility and the amount of
the assistance payment: . . . (c) only such net income as is actually available for current use on a regular basis will be considered,
and only currently available resources will be considered." 45 CFR
§ 233.20 (a) (3) (ii), 34 Fed. Reg. 1395.

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

promulgated a new regulation which provided in pertinent part:
"(a) A State plan for aid and services to needy
families with children . . . must provide that the
determination whether a child has been deprived
of parental support or care by reason of the death,
continued absence from the home, or physical or
mental incapacity of a parent . . . will be made
only in relation to the child's natural or adoptive
parent, or in relation to a child's stepparent who is
ceremonially married -to the child's natural or adoptive parent and is legally obligated to support the
child under State law of general applicability which
requires stepparents to support stepchildren to the
same extent that natural or adoptive parents are
required to support their children.
"(b) The inclusion in the family, or the presence
in the home, of a 'substitute parent' or 'man-in-thehouse' or any individual other than one described
in paragraph (a) of this section is not an acceptable
basis for a finding of ineligibility or for assuming
the availability of income by the State. . . . [I]n
the consideration of all income and resources in
establishing financial eligibility and the amount of
the assistance payment, only such net income as is
actually available for current use on a regular basis
will be considered, and the income only of the parent
described in paragraph (a) of this section will be
considered available for children in the household
in absence of proof of actual contributions." (Emphasis added.)
In other words, the regulations explicitly negate the
idea that in determining a child's needs, a stepfather
(i. e., a man married to a child's mother but who has not
745 CFR § 203.1.

LEWIS v. MARTIN
552

Opinion of the Court

adopted the child and is not legally obligated to support
the child under state law) or a MARS may be presumed
to be providing support.'
We said in King v. Smith that AFDC aid can be
granted "only if 'a parent' of the needy child is continually absent from the homeY 392 U. S., at 313. If
the stepfather or MARS is a "parent" within the meaning
of the federal Act, any federal matching assistance under
the AFDC program for children living with a MARS or
stepfather would not be available to appellants. The
three-judge court said that "[t]he HEW regulation, by
requiring proof of actual contributions from a MARS,
reduces the expectation of Congress to a mere hope."
312 F. Supp., at 202. We disagree. We traversed the
entire spectrum of that question in King v. Smith, and
find it unnecessary to restate the legislative history
of the relevant statutes. We concluded that Congress "intended the term 'parent' in § 406 (a) of the
Act . . . to include only those persons with a legal
duty of support." 392 U. S., at 327. And we went
on to say:
"It is clear, as we have noted, that Congress
expected 'breadwinners' who secured employment
8 An exception is a person whose presence is deemed essential
to the well-being of the recipient of assistance and who is included
in the family budget unit for calculation of need. See 42 U. S. C.
§ 602 (a)(7) (1964 ed., Supp. IV) which provides:
"A State plan . . . must . . . provide that the State agency

shall, in determining need, take into consideration any other
income and resources of any child or relative claiming aid to
families with dependent children, or of any other individual (living
in the same home as such child and relative) whose needs the
State determines should be considered in determining the need
of the child or relative claiming such aid, as well as any expenses
reasonably attributable to the earning of any such income . ... "
The so-called AFDC "essential person" is also covered by regulation. See 45 CFR § 233.20 (a) (2) (vi), 34 Fed. Reg. 1394.

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

would support their children. This congressional
expectation is most reasonably explained on the basis
that the kind of breadwinner Congress had in mind
was one who was legally obligated to support his
children. We think it beyond reason to believe that
Congress would have considered that providing employment for. the paramour of a deserted mother
would benefit the mother's children whom he was
not obligated to support.
"By a parity of reasoning, we think that Congress
must have intended that the children in such a
situation remain eligible for AFDC assistance notwithstanding their mother's impropriety." Id., at
329.
That reasoning led us to invalidate Alabama's "substitute father" regulation.9 Like reasoning leads us to
hold, contrary to the three-judge District Court, that
the HEW regulation is valid. We only add that HEW
might reasonably -conclude that only he who is as near
as a real or adoptive father would be has that consensual
relation to the family which makes it reliably certain
that his income is actually available for support of the
children in the household. HEW may, in other words,
reasonably conclude that an obligation to support under
9 "Under the Alabama regulation, an 'able-bodied man, married
or single, is considered a substitute father of all the children of
the applicant . . . mother' in three different situations: (1) if
'he lives in the home with the child's natural or adoptive mother
for the purpose of cohabitation'; or (2) if 'he visits [the home]
frequently for the purpose of cohabiting with the child's natural
or adoptive mother'; or (3) if 'he does not frequent the home but
cohabits with the child's natural or adoptive mother elsewhere.'
Whether the substitute father is actually the father of the children
is irrelevant. It is aLso irrelevant whether he is legally obligated
to support the children, and whether he does in fact contribute to
their support. What is determinative is simply whether he
'cohabits' with the mother." 392 U. S., at 313-314.

LEWIS v. MARTIN
552

Opinion of the Court

state law must be of "general applicability" to make that
obligation in reality a solid assumption on which estimates of funds actually available to children on a regular
basis may be calculated.
Any lesser duty of support might merely be a device
for lowering welfare benefits without guaranteeing that
the child would regularly receive, the income on which
the reduction is based, that is to say, it would not approximate the obligation to support placed on and normally
assumed by natural or adoptive parents. That reading of
the Act and of King v. Smith certainly cannot be said
to be impermissible.
Our decision in King v. Smith held only that a legal
obligation to support was a necessary condition for
qualification as a "parent"; it did not also suggest that
it would always be a sufficient condition. We find
nothing in this regulation to suggest inconsistency with
the Act's basic purpose of providing aid to "needy"
children, except where there is a "breadwinner" in the
house who can be expected to provide such aid himself.
HEW, the agency charged with administering the Act,
has apparently concluded that as a matter of current,
practical realities, the relationship of the MARS to the
home is less stable than that of the stepfather who at
least has the additional tie of the ceremonial marriage,
and that the likelihood of the MARS' contributing his
income to the children-even if legally obligated to do
so-is sufficiently uncertain in the absence of the marriage tie, to prevent viewing him as a "breadwinner"
unless the bread is actually set on the table. Nothing
in this record shows that this administrative judgment
does not correspond to the facts. We give HEW the
deference due the agency charged with the administration of the Act, see, e. g., Red Lion Broadcasting Co.,
Inc. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367, 381; Zemel v. Rusk, 381
U. S. 1, 11-12. In the absence of proof of actual con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
BLACK, J., dissenting

397 U. S.

tribution, California may not consider the child's "resources" to include either the income of a nonadopting
stepfather who is not legally obligated to support the
child as is a natural parent, or the income of a MARSwhatever the nature of his obligation to support.
California on remand is foreclosed from arguing that
its assumption-of-income provisions are consistent with
the Act as applied to MARS; the State is limited to
demonstrating that those provisions may be retained
under the Act as applied to nonadopting stepfathers by
showing that the legal obligation placed on such stepparents is consistent with the obligation required by the
federal regulation.
Whether in that posture of the case California's laws
and regulations are inconsistent with the federal standard
is a question that the District Court did not reach. The
case is therefore reversed and remanded so that such
an adjudication can be made.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

with whom

THE CHIEF JUSTICE

joins, dissenting.

In my dissenting opinion in Rosado v. Wyman, ante,
at 430-433, I pointed out that in many lawsuits
brought against state welfare authorities by recipients
of Aid to Families With Dependent Children (AFDC)
the real controversy is not between the AFDC recipients and the State but between the Federal Government and the state government. This case presents
precisely that situation. The Solicitor General has informed the Court that the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW)-the federal agency vested
by statute with the duty of insuring that States which
receive federal AFDC matching funds abide by the federal requirements-has determined that § 11351 of the
California Welfare and Institutions Code is inconsistent

LEWIS v. MARTIN
552

BLACK, J., disienting

with federal AFDC regulations, 45 CFR § 203.1. This
California statute provided when this suit was brought
that the income of a stepfather or a man assuming the
role of a spouse (MARS) to the mother of dependent,
needy children shall be considered as available to the
children in computing the AFDC assistance to which
the children are entitled. The federal regulations, however, in general refuse to assume that the income of a
stepfather or MARS is available to the children in the
absence of proof of actual contributions. California
admits that there is a conflict between these state and
federal provisions but contends that the federal regulations are inconsistent with the requirements of the Social
Security Act and that its statute is consistent with the
Act. The controversy between these two governments
is thus real and substantial. It was for exactly such
situations that the Social Security Act provided a comprehensive remedial scheme for resolving disputes between federal and state governments. See 42 U. S. C.
§§ 602, 604, 1316 (1964 ed. and Supp. IV). Under this
scheme HEW has the power, subject to certain notice
and hearing requirements, to terminate AFDC assistance
to a State that refuses to conform to the federal policies.
In this case, the termination of federal AFDC assistance
to California or the credible threat to terminate .that
assistance in the near future would compel a resolution
of the underlying issue in this lawsuit by forcing California (1) to amend its laws to conform to the existing
federal regulations, (2) to challenge HEW's determination of nonconformity in the federal courts as
provided in 42 U. S. C. § 1316 (1964 ed., Supp. IV), or
(3) to withdraw from the federally assisted AFDC program. Generally, the Act provides procedures that allow
the state and federal governments to resolve their difference either by agreement or by lawsuit. As I stated
in my dissent in Rosado v. Wyman, supra, at 434-435,

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
BLACK,

J., dissenting

397 U. S.

if the congressional objective in establishing the Act's
remedial procedures is to be realized it is imperative that
the integrity of these procedures not be undermined by
premature lawsuits brought by welfare recipients. I
think these remedial provisions of the Social Security
Act reflect an unmistakable intent to give HEW primary
jurisdiction over technical and difficult welfare issues
and that these procedures should be the exclusive ones
until they have been exhausted. Accordingly, in my
view it was error for the District Court to assume jurisdiction and decide this case. It is strange indeed to me
that the Federal Government has never been made a
party to this lawsuit although its interests are deeply
involved.
I would add this note of caution, however. The
Federal Government has no power under our Constitution to force or coerce a State into disobeying its own
valid laws while those laws are still on the books. My
concern in this regard arises from my belief that a State,
absent some express constitutional prohibition, has
power and authority to fix and determine the property
relationships and support obligations among persons
within its boundaries. I certainly hope that the opinion of the Court today will not be interpreted as compelling a State to violate its own valid laws in order to
obtain money from the Federal Government.
When this action was brought challenging the California statute as inconsistent with the federal regulations, HEW was in the process of considering the effect
of its new regulations on the California statute. It is
now clear that HEW was preparing to rule that the
California provision was inconsistent with the federal
requirements. If this Court today would vacate the
judgment of the District Court, that order would leave
HEW free to proceed to settle its controversy with California as Congress has provided. For this reason, and

LEWIS v. MARTIN
552

563

BURGER, C. J., dissenting

for those stated above, I would vacate the judgment of
the District Court and order that the case be dismissed
as prematurely brought.
dissenting.
Unlike Dandridge v. Williams, ante, p. 471, the administrative procedures provided by statute have not been
exhausted here. For this reason HEW's primary jurisdiction remains a bar to the jurisdiction of federal courts
over suits brought by welfare recipients. See Rosado v.
Wyman, ante, p. 430 (dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE
BLACK).
I therefore join the dissent filed by MR.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER,

JUSTICE BLACK.

