728

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Syllabus

397 U. S.

ROWAN, DBA AMERICAN BOOK SERVICE, ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES POST OFFICE
DEPARTMENT ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA
No. 399.

Argued January 22, 1970-Decided May 4, 1970

Appellants, who are in the mail-order business,, brought suit to enjoin
the operation of 39 U. S. C. § 4009, challenging its constitutionality.
That section provides that a person who has received by
mail "a pandering advertisement which offers for sale matter
which the addressee in his sole discretion believes to be erotically
arousing or sexually provocative," may request the Postmaster
General to issue an order "directing the sender and his agents or
assigns to refrain from further mailings to the named addressee."
Such order would also require the sender to delete the addressee's
name from his mailing lists and would prohibit him from trading
in lists from which the deletion has not been made. If the Postmaster General believes that his order has been violated, he may
notify the sender of his belief and the reasons therefor, and must
grant him an opportunity to respond and to have an administrative hearing on whether a violation has occurred. If the Postmaster General thereafter determines that the order has been
violated, he may request the Attorney General to seek an order
from a district court directing compliance with the prohibitory
order. A three-judge court found that § 4009 was constitutional
when interpreted to prohibit advertisements similar to those initially mailed to the addressee. Held:
1. The statute allows the addressee unreviewable discretion to
decide whether he wishes to receive any further material from a
particular sender. Pp. 731-735.
2. A vendor does not have a constitutional right to send unwanted material into someone's home, and a mailer's right to
communicate must stop at the mailbox of an unreceptive addressee.
Pp. 735-738.
3. The statute comports with the Due Process Clause as it provides for an administrative hearing if the sender violates the
Postmaster General's prohibitory order, and a judicial hearing
prior to issuance of any compliance order by a district court.
Pp. 738-739.

ROWAN v. POST OFFICE DEPT.
728

Opinion of the Court

4. The statute does not violate due proces by requiring that
the sender remove the complaining addressee's name from his
mailing lists, nor is the statute unconstitutionally vague, as the
sender knows precisely what he must do when he receives a prohibitory order. P. 740.
300 F. Supp. 1036, affirmed.

Joseph Taback argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Ruckelshaus argued the
cause for appellees. With him on the brief were Solicitor
General Griswold, Peter L. Strauss, Robert V. Zener,
and Donald L. Horowitz.
Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General, pro se, Samuel A.
Hirshowitz, First Assistant Attorney General, and Lloyd
G. Milliken filed a brief for the Attorney General of
New York as amicus curiae urging affirmance. David E.
McGiffert filed a brief for the Direct Mail Advertising
Association, Inc., as amicus curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellants challenge the constitutionality of Title III
of the Postal Revenue and Federal Salary Act of 1967,
81 Stat. 645, 39 U. S. C. § 4009 (1964 ed., Supp. IV),
under which a person may require that a mailer remove
his name from its mailing lists and stop all future mailings to the householder. The appellants are publishers,
distributors, owners, and operators of mail order houses,
mailing list brokers, and owners and operators of mail
service organizations whose business activities are affected
by the challenged statute.
A brief description of the statutory framework will
facilitate our analysis of the quesions raised in this
appeal. Section 4009 is entitled "Prohibition of pandering advertisements in the mails." It provides a pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

ced.ure whereby any householder may insulate himself
from advertisements that offer for sale "matter which
the addressee in his sole discretion believes to be erotically arousing or sexually provocative." 39 U. S. C.
§ 4009 (a) (1964 ed., Supp. IV).'
Subsection (b) mandates the Postmaster General,
upon receipt of a notice from the addressee specifying
that he has received advertisements found by him to be
within the statutory category, to issue on the addressee's
request an order directing the sender and his agents or
assigns to refrain from further mailings to the named
addressee. Additionally, subsection (c) requires the
Postmaster General to order the affected sender to delete
the name of the designated addressee from all mailing
lists owned or controlled by the sender and, prohibits the
sale, rental, exchange, or other transactions involving
mailing lists bearing the name of the designated
addressee.
If the Postmaster General has reason to believe that an
order issued under this section has been violated, subsection (d) authorizes him to notify the sender by registered
or certified mail of his belief and the reasons therefor, and
grant him an opportunity to respond and have a hearing
on whether a violation has occurred.
If the Postmaster General thereafter determines that
the order has been or is being violated, he is authorized
to request the Attorney General to seek an order from a
United States District Court directing compliance with
the prohibitory order. Subsection (e) grants to the district court jurisdiction to issue a compliance order upon
application of the Attorney General.
Appellants initiated an action in the United States
District Court for the Central District of California upon
1 Subsection (g) provides that upon the addressee's request the
order shall include the names of the addressee's minor children who
reside with him and who have not attained their nineteenth birthday.

ROWAN v. POST OFFICE DEPT.
728

Opinion of the 'Court

a complaint and petition for declaratory relief on the
ground that 39 U. S. C. § 4009 (1964 ed., Supp. IV) is
unconstitutional. They alleged that they had received
numerous prohibitory orders pursuant to the provisions
of the statute. Appellants contended that the section
violates their rights of free speech and due process guaranteed by the First and Fifth Amendments to the United
States Constitution. Additionally, appellants argued
that the section is unconstitutionally vague, without
standards, and ambiguous.
A three-judge court was convened pursuant to 28
U. S. C. § 2284 and it determined that the section was
constitutional when interpreted to prohibit advertisements similar to those initially mailed to the addressee.2
300 F. Supp. 1036.
The District Court construed subsections (b) and (c)
to prohibit "advertisements similar" to those initially
mailed to the addressee. Future mailings, in the view of
the District Court, "are to be measured by the objectionable material of such first mailing." 300 F. Supp.,
at 1041. In our view Congress did not intend so restrictive a scope to those provisions.

I.

BACKGROUND AND

CONGRESSIONAL OBJECTIVES

Section 4009 was a response to public and congressional
concern with use of mail facilities to distribute unsolicited
adviertis~ments that recipients found to be offensive
because of their lewd and salacious character. Such mail
was found to be pressed upon minors as well as adults
who did not seek and did not want it. Use of. mailing
lists of youth organizations was part of the mode of
2

Judge Hufstedler, concurring specially but without dissent, would

require the District Court prior to issuing a compliance order to

determine de novo whether the sender is a person who has mailed
or has caused to be mailed any pandering advertisements.

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

doing business. At the congressional hearings it developed that complaints to the Postmaster General had increased from 50,000 to 250,000 annually. The legislative
history, including testimony of child psychology specialists and psychiatrists before the House Committee on
the Post Office and the Civil Service, reflected concern
over the impact of the materials on the development of
children. A declared objective of Congress was to protect
minors and the privacy of homes from such material and
to place the judgment of what constitutes an offensive
invasion of those interests in the hands of the addressee.
To accomplish these objectives Congress provided in
subsection (a) that the mailer is subject to an order
"to refrain from further mailings of such materials to
designated addressees." Subsection (b) states that the
Postmaster General shall direct the sender to refrain
from "further mailings to the named addressees." Subsection (c) in describing the Postmaster's order states
that it shall "expressly prohibit the sender . . . from
making any further mailings to the designated addressees . . . ." Subsection (c) also requires the sender
to delete the addressee's name "from all mailing lists"
and prohibits the sale, transfer, and exchange of lists
bearing the addressee's name.
There are three plausible constructions of the statute,
with respect to the scope of the prohibitory order. The
order could prohibit all future mailings to the addressees,
all future mailings of advertising material to the addressees, or all future mailings of similar materials.
The seeming internal statutory inconsistency is undoubtedly a residue of the language of the section as it
was initially proposed. The section as originally reported by the House Committee prohibited "further mailings of such pandering advertisements," § 4009 (a), "further mailings of such matter," § 4009 (b), and "any
further mailings of pandering advertisements," § 4009 (c).

ROWAN v. POST OFFICE DEPT.
728

Opinion of the Court

H. R. Rep. No. 722, 90th Cong., 1st Sess., 125 (1967).
The section required the Postmaster General to make a
determination whether the particular piece of mail came
within the proscribed class of pandering advertisements,
"as that term is used in the Ginzburg case." Id., at 69.
The section was subsequently amended by the House
of Representatives to eliminate from the Post Office any
censorship function. Congressman Waldie, who proposed the amendment, envisioned a minimal role for the
Post Office. The amendment was intended to remove
"the right of the Government to involve itself in any
determination of the content and nature of these objectionable materials..'. ." 113 Cong. Rec. 28660 (1967).
The only determination left for the Postmaster General
is whether or not the mailer has removed the addressee's
name from the mailing list. Statements by the proponents of the legislation in both the House and Senate
manifested an intent to prohibit all further mailings from
the sender. In describing the effect of his proposed
amendment Congressman Waldie stated:
"So I have said in my amendment that if you receive
literature in your household that you consider objectionable . . . you can inform the Postmaster
General to have your name stricken from that mailer's mailing list." 113 Cong. Rec. 28660.
The Senate Committee Report on the bill contained
similar language:
"If a person receives an advertisement which . . .
he . . . believes to be erotically arousing . . . he
may notify the Postmaster General of his determination. The Postmaster General is then required to
issue an order to the sender directing him to refrain
from sending any further mailings of any kind to
such person." S. Rep. No. 801, 90th Cong., 1st
Sess., 38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

Senator Monroney, a major proponent of the legislation
in the Senate, described the bill as follows:
"With respect to the test contained in the bill,
if the addressee declared it to be erotically arousing
or sexually provocative, the Postmaster General
would have to notify the sender to send no more
mail to that address ....
"
113 Cong. Rec. 34231
(1967).'
The legislative history of subsection (a) thus supports
an interpretation that prohibits all future mailings independent of any objective test. This reading is consistent
with the provisions of related subsections in the section.
Subsection (c) provides that the Postmaster General
"shall also direct the sender and his agents or assigns
to delete immediately the names of the designated addressees from all mailing lists owned or controlled by the
sender or his agents or assigns and, further, shall prohibit
the sender and his agents or assigns from the sale, rental,
exchange, or other transaction involving mailing lists
bearing the names of the designated addressees." 39
U. S. C. § 4009 (c) (1964 ed., Supp. IV).
It would be anomalous to read the statute to affect
only similar material or advertisements and yet require
the Postmaster General to order the sender to remove the
addressee's name from all mailing lists in his actual or
constructive possession. The section was intended to
allow the addressee complete and unfettered discretion in
electing whether or not he desired to receive further material from a particular sender. See n. 6, infra. The impact of this aspect of the statute is on the mailer, not
3 Senator Hruska spoke similarly: "Title III would allow the
recipient of obscene mail to return it to the Postmaster General
with a request that the Postmaster General notify the sender to
stop mailings to the addressee
."
113 Cong. Rec. 34232
(1967).

ROWAN v. POST OFFICE DEPT.
728

Opinion of the Court

the mail. The interpretation of the statute that most
completely effectuates that intent is one that prohibits
any furbher mailings. Limiting the prohibitory order
to similar materials or advertisements is open to at least
two criticisms: (a) it would expose the householder to
further burdens of scrutinizing the mail for objectionable
material and possible harassment, and (b) it would interpose the Postmaster General between the sender and the
addressee and, at the least, create the appearance if not
the substance of governmental censorship
It is difficult to see how the Postmaster General could decide
whether the materials were "similar" or possessing touting or pandering characteristics without an evaluation
suspiciously like censorship. Additionally, such an interpretation would be incompatible with the unequivocal
language in subsection (c).
II.

FIRST AMENDMENT CONTENTIONS

The essence of appellants' argument is that the statute
violates their constitutional right to communicate. One
sentence in appellants' brief perhaps characterizes their
entire position:
"The freedom to communicate orally and by the
written word and, indeed, in every manner whatsoever is imperative to a free and sane society." Brief
for Appellants 15.
4 Subsection (d) vests the Postmaster General with the duty to
determine whether the sender has violated the order. This determination was intended to be primarily a ministerial one involving
an adjudication whether the initial material was an advertisement
and whether the sender mailed materials to the addressee more than
30 days after the receipt of the prohibitory order. An interpretation which requires the Postmaster General to determine whether
the subsequent material was pandering and/or similar would tend
to place him "astride the flow of mail .
" Lamont v. Postmaster
General, 381 U. S. 301, 306 (1965).

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

Without doubt the public postal system is an indispensable adjunct of every civilized society and communication
is imperative to a healthy social order. But the right
of every person "to be let alone" must be placed in the
scales with the right of others to communicate.
In today's complex society we are inescapably captive
audiences for many purposes, but a sufficient measure of
individual autonomy must survive to permit every householder to exercise control over unwanted mail. To make
the householder the exclusive and final judge of what
will cross his threshold undoubtedly has the effect of
impeding the flow of ideas, information, and arguments
that, ideally, he should ie'ceive and consider. Today's
merchandising methods, the plethora of mass mailings
subsidized by low postal rates, and the growth of the sale
of large mailing lists as an industry in itself have changed
the mailman from a carrier of primarily private communications, as he was in a nmore leisurely day, and have
made him an adjunct of the mass mailer who sends
unsolicited and often unwanted mail into every home.
It places no strain on the doctrine of judicial notice to
observe that whether measured by pieces or pounds,
Everyman's mail today is made up overwhelmingly of
material he did not seek from persons he does not know.
And all too often it is matter he finds offensive.
In Martin v. Struthers, 319 U. S. 141 (1943),
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

for the Court, while supporting the

"[f]reedom to distribute information to every citizen,"
id., at 146, acknowledged a limitation in terms of leaving "with the homeowner himself" the power to decide
"whether distributors of literature may lawfully call at
a home." Id., at 148. Weighing the highly important
right to communicate, but without trying to determine
where it fits into constitutional imperatives, against the
very basic right to be free from sights, sounds, and tangible matter we do not want, it seems to us that a mailer's

ROWAN v. POST OFFICE DEPT.
728

Opinion of the Court

right to communicate must stop at the mailbox of an
unreceptive addressee.
The Court has traditionally respected the right of a
householder to bar, by order or notice, solicitors, hawkers,
and peddlers from his property. See Martinv. Struthers,
supra; cf. Hall v. Commonwealth, 188 Va. 72, 49 S. E. 2d
369, appeal dismissed, 335 U. S. 875 (1948). In this
case the mailer's right to communicate is circumscribed
only by an affirmative act of the addressee giving notice
that he wishes no further mailings from that mailer.
To hold less would tend to license a form of trespass
and would make hardly more sense than to say that a
radio or television viewer may not twist the dial to cut off
an offensive or boring communication and thus bar its entering his home. Nothing in the Constitution compels us
to listen to or view any unwanted communication, whatever its merit; we see no basis for according the printed
word or pictures a different or more preferred status
because they are sent by mail. The ancient concept
that "a man's home is his castle" into which "not even the
king may enter" has lost none of its vitality, and none of
the recognized exceptions includes any right 'to communicate offensively with another. See Camara v. Municipal Court, 387 U. S. 523 (1967).
Both the absoluteness of the citizen's right under
§ 4009 and its finality are essential; what may not be
provocative to one person may well be to another. In
operative effect the power of the householder under the
statute is unlimited; he may prohibit the mailing
of a dry goods catalog because he objects to the contents-or indeed the text of the language touting the
merchandise. Congress provided, this sweeping power
not only to protect privacy but to avoid possible constitutional questions that might arise from vesting
the power to make any discretionary evaluation of the
material in a governmental official.

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

In effect, Congress has erected a wall-or more accurately permits a citizen to erect a wall-that no advertiser may penetrate without his acquiescence. The
continuing operative effect of a mailing ban once imposed presents no constitutional obstacles; the citizen
cannot be put to the burden of determining on repeated
occasions whether the offending mailer has altered its
material so as to make it acceptable. Nor should the
householder have to risk that offensive material come
into the hands of his children before it can be stopped.
We therefore categorically reject the argument that a
vendor has a right under the Constitution or otherwise
to send unwanted material into the home of another. If
this prohibition operates to impede the flow of even valid
ideas, the answer is that no one has a right to press
even "good" ideas on an unwilling recipient. That we
are often "captives" outside the sanctuary of the home
and subject to objectionable speech and other sound does
not mean we must be captives everywhere. See Public
Utilities Comm'n v. Pollak, 343 U. S. 451 (1952). The
asserted right of a mailer, we repeat, stops at the outer
boundary of every person's domain.
The statutory scheme at issue accords to the sender
an "opportunity to be heard upon such notice and proceedings as are adequate to safeguard the right for which
the constitutional protection is invoked." Anderson
Nat. Bank v. Luckett, 321 U. S. 233, 246 (1944). It
thus comports with the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment. The statutory scheme accomplishes this
by providing that the Postmaster General shall issue a
prohibitory order to the sender on the request of the
complaining addressee. Only if the sender yiolates the
terms of the order is the Postmaster General authorized
to serve a complaint on the sender, who is then allowed
15 days to respond. The sender can then secure an

ROWAN v. POST OFFICE DEPT.
728

Opinion of the Court

administrative hearing.'
The sender may question
whether the initial material mailed to the addressee was
an advertisement and whether he sent any subsequent
mailings. If the Postmaster General thereafter determines that the prohibitory order has been violated, he is
authorized to request the Attorney General to make application in a United States District Court for a compliance
order; 6 a second hearing is required if an order is to be
entered.
The only administrative action not preceded by a
full hearing is the initial issuance of the prohibitory
order. Since the sender risks no immediate sanction by
failing to comply with that order-it is only a predicate
for later steps-it cannot be said that this aspect of the
procedure denies due process. It is sufficient that all
available defenses, such as proof that no mail was sent,
may be presented to a competent tribunal before a contempt finding can be made. See Nickey v. Mississippi,
292 U. S. 393, 396 (1934).
5Although subsection (h) specifically excludes the pre-complaint
hearing from the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act,
5 U. S. C. § 554 et seq. (1964 ed., Supp. IV), the Post Office Department has promulgated regulations setting forth procedures governing
the departmental administrative hearings. 39 CFR pt. 916.
6 The function of the district court is similar to that of the
Postmaster General. It is to determine whether the initial mailing
included advertising material and whether there was a mailing by
the sender to the addressee more than 30 days after receipt of the
order. We reject the suggestions that the section should be read
to require the district judge to make a determination of the
addressee's good faith, or to conduct an independent adjudication
of the pandering nature of the material. The statute was intended
to entrust unreviewable discretion to the addressee to determine
whether or not the advertisement was "erotically arousing or sexually
provocative." "[T]he sole determination as to whether the literature you receive is objectionable or not is within your discretion
and you are not second-guessed on that discretion." 113 Cong.
Rec. 28660 (1967) (remarks of Congressman Waldie).

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of the Court

397 U. S.

The appellants also contend that the requirement
that the sender remove the addressee's name from all
mailing lists in his possession violates the Fifth Amendment because it constitutes a taking without due process of law. The appellants are not prohibited from
using, selling, or exchanging their mailing lists; they are
simply required to delete the names of the complaining
addressees from the lists and cease all mailings to those
persons.
Appellants next contend that compliance with the
statute is confiscatory because the costs attendiAg removal of the names are prohibitive. We agree with the
conclusion of the District Court that the "burden does
not amount to a violation of due process guaranteed
by the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. Particularly when in the context presently before this Court
it is being applied to commercial enterprises." 300 F.
Supp., at 1041. See California State Auto Ins. Bureau
v. Maloney, 341 U. S. 105 (1951).
There is no merit to the appellants' allegations that
the -statute is unconstitutionally vague. A statute is
fatally vague only when it exposes a potential actor
to some risk or detriment without giving him fair warning of the nature of the proscribed conduct. United
States v. Cardiff, 344 U. S. 174, 176 (1952). Here the
appellants know precisely what they must do on receipt
of a prohibitory order. The complainants' names must
be removed from the sender's mailing lists and he must
refrain from. future mailings to the named addressees.
The sender is exposed to a contempt sanction only if he
continues to mail to a particular addressee after administrative and judicial proceedings. Appellants run no
substantial risk of miscalculation.
For the reasons stated, the judgment appealed from
is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

ROWAN v. POST OFFICE DEPT.
728
MR.

BRENNAN, J.,
JUSTICE

BRENNAN,

concurring

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

DOUGLAS joins, concurring.

I join the Court's opinion but add a few words. I
agree that 39 U. S. C. § 4009 (1964 ed., Supp. IV) is
constitutional insofar as it permits an addressee to require a mailer to remove his name from its mailing lists
and to stop all future mailings to the addressee. 'As the
Court notes, however, subsection (g) of § 4009 also allows
an addressee to request the Postmaster General to include in any prohibitory order "the names of any of his
minor children who have not attained their nineteenth
birthday, and who reside with the addressee." In light
of the broad interpretation that the Court assigns to
§ 4009, and see ante, at 738, the possibility exists that
parents could prevent their children, even if they are
18 years old, from receiving political, religious, or other
materials that the parents find offensive. In my view,
a statute so construed and applied is not without constitutional difficulties. Cf. Tinker v. Des Moines School
Dist., 393 U. S. 503 (1969); Ginsberg v. New York, 390
U. S. 629 (1968). In this case, however, there is no
particularized attack upon the constitutionality of subsection (g), nor, indeed, is there any indication on this
record that under § 4009 (g) children in their late teens
have been unwillingly deprived of the opportunity to
receive materials. In these circumstances, I understand
the Court to leave open the question of the right of older
children to receive materials through the mail without
governmental interference and also the more specific
question whether § 4009 (g) may constitutionally be applied with respect to all materials and to all children
under 19.

