SEARS, ROEBUCK v. CARPET LAYERS

655

Syllabus

SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO. v. CARPET, LINOLEUM,
SOFT TILE & RESILIENT FLOOR COVERING
LAYERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 419, AFL-CIO, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES-COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT

No. 476.

Argued March 3, 1970-Decided April 27, 1970

The National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) Regional Director,
after investigating petitioner's charge that respondent union was
violating § 8 (b) (4) (B) of the National Labor Relations Act,
issued an unfair labor practice complaint with the NLRB and
petitioned the District Court for injunctive relief under § 10 (1)
of the Act, which directs him to apply for such temporary relief
"pending the final adjudication of the Board with respect to such
matter." The Regional Director did not appeal the denial of
an injunction but petitioner (which had not formally intervened
at the District Court hearing) sought to do so. The Court of
Appeals dismissed the appeal on the ground that only the Regional Director could appeal. The NLRB thereafter found that
the union had violated § 8 (b) (4) (B) and ordered it to cease and
desist from its unlawful conduct. Held: Since any injunctive relief
to which petitioner might have been entitled under § 10 (1) terminated upon final action by the NLRB, albeit respondent union
is seeking judicial review of the order, the question whether petitioner could appeal the denial of an injunction is moot.
410 F. 2d 1148, vacated and remanded.

Gerard C. Smetana argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs was Alan Raywid.
David S. Barr argued the cause for respondent union.
With him on the brief was Philip Hornbein, Jr. Dominick L. Manoli argued the cause for respondent the
Regional Director of the National Labor Relations
Board.. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Griswold, Joseph J. Connolly, Arnold Ordman, and Norton J. Come.

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Per Curiam

397 U. S.

Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
Brice I. Bishop and Phil B. Hammond for the American
Retail Federation, and by Jerry Kronenberg and Charles
C. Kieffer for the Terminal Freight Handling Co. et al.
J. Albert Woll, Laurence Gold, and Thomas E. Harris
filed a brief for the American Federation of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations as amicus curiae
urging affirmance.
PER CURIAM.
The petitioner, Sears, Roebuck and Company (Sears),
filed a charge with the NLRB Regional Director, alleging
that the respondent union was engaged in unlawful secondary picketing of the petitioner's premises in violation
of § 8 (b) (4) (B) of the National Labor Relations Act,
as amended." The Regional Director investigated the
charge and, finding there was reasonable cause to believe
it was true, issued. an unfair labor practice complaint
1 Sec. 8 (b). "It shall be an unfair labor practice for a labor
organization or its agents--

"(4) (i) to engage in' or to induce or encourage any individual
employed by any person engaged in commerce or in an industry
affecting commerce to engage in, a strike or a refusal in the course
of his employment to use, manufacture, process, transport, or otherwise handle or work on any goods, articles, materials, or commodities or to perform any services; or (ii) to threaten, coerce, or
restrain any person engaged in commerce or in an industry affecting
commerce, where in either case an object thereof is-- . . . (B) forcing or requiring any person to cease using, selling, handling, transporting, or otherwise dealing in the products of any other producer,
processor, or manufacturer, or to cease doing business with any
other person, or forcing or requiring any other employer to recognize or bargain with a labor organization as the representative of
his employees unless such labor organization has been certified as
the representative of such employees under the provisions of section 9 . . . ." (61 Stat. 141, 73 Stat. 542, 29 U. S. C. § 158 (b).)

SEARS, ROEBUCK v. CARPET LAYERS
655

657

Per Curiam

with the Board. He also petitioned a Federal District
Court for injunctive relief pursuant to § 10 (1) of the
Act, which directs him to apply for such tempora;y
relief "pending the final adjudication of the Board
with respect to such matter." '2
Counsel for Sears appeared at the hearing before the
District Court, but Sears did not seek to intervene formally. After hearing testimony the court declined to
issue an injunction, believing that Sears was not likely
to prevail before the Board on its unfair labor practice
charge.8 The Regional Director did not appeal the
court's decision, but Sears sought to do so. 410 F. 2d
1148. The Court of Appeals dismissed Sears' appeal on
the ground that under the Act only the Regional Director could appeal from the denial of a § 10 (1) injunction.
Thereafter the Board issued its decision and order in the
underlying unfair labor practice proceeding, finding that
the respondent union had violated § 8 (b) (4) (B) of the
Act, and ordering it to cease and desist from its unlawful
conduct. 176 N. L. R. B. No. 120, 71 L. R. R. M.
1372 (1969).
Under these circumstances the question whether Sears
could appeal the District Court's denial of an injunction
has now become moot. For even if the Court of Appeals
was wrong in dismissing Sears' appeal, any relief that
that court might have given would now have terminated.
"'To adjudicate a cause which no longer exists is a proceeding which this Court uniformly has declined to entertain.'" Oil Workers Union v. Missouri, 36i U. S. 363,
371, quoting from Brownlow v. Schwartz, 261 U. S. 216,
217-218. See also Hall v. Beals, 396 U. S.45; Brockington v. Rhodes, 396 U. S. 41; Golden v. Zwickler, 394
U. S. 103.
29 U. S. C. § 160 (1).
3 The District Court decision is unreported.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Per Curiam

397 U. S.

Sears concedes that an' injunction, had one issued,
would terminate upon "final" Board resolution of the
underlying unfair labor practice charge. But it argues
that the Board's action cannot be considered final where,
as here, one of' the parties, in this case the respondent
union, has sought review of the Board's order. In this
situation, Sears maitains, the injunctive relief, if
granted, would remain in effect until the Board's order
with respect to the underlying unfair labor practice were
either enforced or denied enforcement by the Court of
Appeals. It is argued that because the Court of Appeals
has not yet acted on the Board's order here, Sears may
still be entitled to injunctive relief, and thus the question of whether it was entitled to appeal the denial of
a § 10 (1) injunction remains a viable one.
But neither the language, the legislative history, nor
the policies of the Act support this construction. For
by its terms § 10 (1) rherely authorizes the issuance of
an 'injunction "pending the final adjudication of the
Board with respect to [the] matter." (Emphasis added.)
Once the Board has -acted, it can itself seek injunctive
relief from the Court of Appeals, pursuant to § 10 (e)
of the Act, which empowers that court to grant "such
temporary relief or restraining order as it deems just and
proper."' See McLeod v. Business Machine Mechanics
Conference Board, 300 F. 2d 237, 241. The legislative
history makes clear that the purpose of enacting § 10 (1)
in 1947 was simply to supplement the pre-existing § 10 (e)
power of the Board by authorizing injunctive relief prior
to Board action. 5 It was thus relief prior to Board
"29 U. S. C. § 160 (e).
5"Under the present act the Board is ,emlowered to seek interim
relief only after it has filed in the appropriate circuit court of
appeals its order and the record on which it is based....
"In subsections (j) and (1) . . . the Board is given additional
authority to seek injunctive relief .... Thus the Board need not

SEARS, ROEBUCK v. CARPET LAYERS
655

659

Per Curiam

action that Congress was concerned with providing when
it enacted § 10 (1), and any injunction issued pursuant
to that section terminates when the Board resolves the
underlying dispute.
Where the Board ultimately finds no unfair labor
practice, it would clearly be contrary to the policies of
the Act to permit a district court injunction to remain
in effect pending Court of Appeals review of the District
Court's action. And where the Board does find an unfair labor practice, § 10 (e) provides an adequate remedy
should its order be disobeyed. Yet on the petitioner's
reading of the Act, the District Court injunction would
remain in effect until Court of Appeals review, whatever
the Board did. This is not what was intended by
§ 10 (1), and the courts that have confronted the issue
have consistently so held. Carpenters" District Council
v. Boire,. 288 F. 2d 454, 455; Monique, Inc. v. Boire,
344 F. 2d 1017, 1018; NLRB v. Nashville Bldg. Trades.
Council, 383 F. 2d 562, 564. See also this' Court's disposition in Los Angeles Bldg. & Construction Trades
Council v. LeBaron, 342 U. S. 802. But see Houston
Insulation Contractors Assn. v. NLRB, 339 F. 2d 868.
Because any injunctive relief to which Sears might
have been entitled under § 10 (1) would now have terminated in any event, the question of whether Sears was
entitled to challenge the denial of such relief has become,
moot.
Accordingly the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
vacated and the case is remanded to the District Court
with directions to dismiss the complaint as moot.
It is so ordered.
wait, if the circumstances call for such relief, until it has held a
hearing, issued its order, and petitioned for enforcement of its order."
S. Rep. No. 105,' 80th Cong., 1st Sess., 27 (1947).

