OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Syllabus.

363 U. S.

HANNAH ET AL. v. LARCHE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 549.

Argued January 18-19, 1960.-Decided June 20, 1960.*

The Civil Rights Act of 1957 created in the Executive Branch of the
Government a Commission on Civil Rights to investigate written,
sworn allegations that persons have been discriminatorily deprived
of their right to vote on account of their color, race, religion or
national origin, to study and collect information "concerning legal
developments constituting a denial of equal protectidn of the laws,"
and to report to the President and Congress. The Commission is
authorized to subpoena witnesses and documents and to conduct
hearings. The Act prescribes certain rules of procedure; but nothing in the Act requires the Commission to afford persons accused
of discrimination the right to be apprised as to the specific charges
against them or as to the identity of their accusers, or the right to
confront and cross-examine witnesses appearing at Commission
hearings; and the Commission prescribed supplementary rules of
procedure which deny such rights in hearings conducted by it.
Held:
1. In the light of the legislative history of the Act, the Commission was authorized by Congress to adopt such rules of procedure.
Pp. 430-439.
2. Since the Commission makes no adjudications but acts solely
as an investigatiye and fact-finding agencythese rules of procedure
do not violate the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
Morgan v. United States, 304 U. S. 1; Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee
Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S.. 123; Greene v. McElroy, 360
U. S. 474, distinguished. Pp. 440-452.
3. Such rules of procedure do not violate the Sixth Amendment,
since that Amendment is specifically limited to "criminal prosecutions," and the .proceedings of the Commission do not fall in that
category. P. 440, n. 16.
*Together with No. 550, Hannah et al. v. Slawson et al., on petition
for writ of certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the
.Fifth Circuit.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

4. The Civil Rights Act of 1957 is appropriate legislation under
the Fifteenth Amendment. P. 452.
5. Section 7 of the Administrative Procedure Act is not applicable
to hearings conducted by.this Commission. Pp. 452-453.
177 F. Supp. 816, reversed.

Deputy Attorney General Walsh argued the causes for
appellants in No. 549 and petitioners in No. 550. On the
brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Acting Assistant
Attorney General Ryan, PhilipElman, Harold H. Greene
and David Rubin.
Jack P. F. Gremillion, Attorney General of Louisiana,
argued the cause for appellees in No. 549. With him on
the brief were George M. Ponder,First Assistant Attorney
General, and Albin P. Lassiter.
W. M. Shaw argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents in No. 550.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE WARREN

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These cases involve the validity of certain Rules of
Procedure adopted by the Commission on Civil Rights,
which was established by Congress in 1957.1 Civil Rights
Act of i957, 71 Stat. 634, 42 U. S. C. §§ 1975-1975e. They
arise out of the Commission's investigation of alleged
Negro voting deprivations in the State of Louisiana. The
appellees in No. 549 are registrars of voters in the State
of Louisiana, and the respondents in No. 550 are private
citizens of Louisiana.2 After having been summoned to
' Although the Civil Rights Act of 1957 provided that the Commission should cease to exist within two years after its creation, 71
Stat. 635, 42 U. S. C. § 1975c, in 1959 Congress extended the Commission's life for an additional two years. 73 Stat. 724.
2-The appellants in No. 549 and the petitioners in No. 550r are the
individual members of the Civil Rights Commission. Hereinafter,

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

appear before a hearing which the Commission proposed
to conduct in Shreveport, Louisiana, these registrars and
private citizens requested the United States District Court
for the Western District of Louisiana to enjoin the Commission from holding its anticipated hearing. It .was
alleged, among other things, that the Commission's Rules
of Procedure governing the conduct of its investigations
were unconstitutional. The specific rules challenged are
those which provide that the identity of persons submitting complaints to the Commission need not be disclosed,
and that those summoned to testify before the Commission, including persons against whom complaints have
been filed, may not cross-examine other witnesses called
by the Commission. The District Court held that the
Commission was not authorized to adopt the Rules of Procedure here in question, and therefore issued an injunction
which prohibits the Commission from holding any hearings in the Western District of Louisiana as long as the
challenged procedures remain in force. The Commission
requested this Court to review the District Court's decision.' We granted the Commission's motion to advance
the cases, and oral argument was accordingly scheduled on
the jurisdiction on appeal in No. 549, on the petition for
certiorari in No. 550, and on the merits of both cases.
Having heard oral argument as scheduled, we now' take
jurisdiction in No. 549 and grant certiorari in No.
they will be referred to as "the Commission." The appellees in No.
549 and the respondents in No. 550 will both hereinafter be referred
to as "respondents."
8 Because No. 549 was heard and decided by a three-judge District
Court, a direct appeal to this Court was sought by the Commission
pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 1253. The Commission also filed an appeal
in No. 550 with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit. However, before the Court of Appeals could render a decision in No. 550, the Commission filed a petition for certiorari pursuant to Rule 20 of this Court.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Oninion of the Court.

420

550. The specific questions which we must decide are
(1) whether the Commission was authorized by Congress
to adopt the Rules of Procedure challenged by the respondents, and (2) if so, whether those procedures violate
the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
A description of the events leading up to this litigation
is necessary not only to place the legal questions in their
proper factual context, but also to indicate the significance
of the Commission's proposed Shreveport hearing. During the months prior to its decision to convene the hearing,
the Commission had received some sixty-seven complaints
from individual Negroes who alleged that they had been
discriminatorily deptived of their right to vote. Based
upon these complaints, and pursuant to its statutory mandate to "investigate allegations in writing under oath or
affirmation that certaii citizens of the United States are
being deprived of their right to vote and have that vote
counted by reason of their color, race, -religion, or national
origin," ' the Commission began its investigation into the
Louisiana voting situation by making several ex parte attempts to acquire information. Thus, in March 1959, a
member of the Commission's staff interviewed the Voting
Registrars of Claiborne, Caddo, and Webster Parishes,
but obtained little relevant information. During one of
these interviews the staff member is alleged to have informed Mrs. Lannie Linton, the Registrar of Claiborne
Parish, that the Commission had on file four sworn statements charging her with depriving Negroes of their voting
rights solely because of their race. Subsequent to this interview, .Mr. W. M. Shaw, Mrs. Linton's personal attorney, wrote a letter to Mr. Gordon M. Tiffany, the Staff
Director of the Commission, in which it was asserted that
Mrs.-Linton knew the sworn complaints lodged against
Section 104 of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, 71 Stat. 635, 42
U. S. C. § 1975c (a)(1).
4

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

her to be false. The letter also indicated that Mrs. Linton wished to prefer perjury charges against the affiants,
and Mr. Shaw therefore demanded that the Commission
forward to him copies of the affidavits so that a proper
presentment could be made to the grand jury. On April
14, 1959, Mr. Tiffany replied to Mr. Shaw's letter and indicated that the Commission had denied the request for
copies of the .sworn affidavits. Mr. Shaw was also informed of the following official statement adopted by the
Commission:
"The Commission from its first meeting forward,
having considered all complaints submitted to it as
confidential because such confidentiality is essential
in carrying out the statutory duties of the Commission, the Staff Director is hereby instructed not to
disclose the names of complainants or other information contained in complaints to anyone except
members of the Commission and members of the
staff assigned to process, study, or investigate such
complaints."
A copy of Mr. Tiffany's letter was sent to Mr. Jack P. F.
Gremillion, the Attorney General of Louisiana, who had
previously informed the Commission that under Louisiana
law the Attorney General is the legal adviser for all.voting
registrars in any hearing or investigation before a federal
commission.
Another attempt to obtain information occurred on
May 13, 1959, when Mr. Tiffany, upon Commission authorization, sent a list of 315 written interrogatories to Mr.
Gremillion. These interrogatories requested very detailed
and specific information, and were to be answered by
the voting registrars of nineteen Louisiana parishes.
Although Mr. Gremillion and the Governor of Louisiana
had previously assented to the idea of written interrogatories, on May 28, 1959, Mr. Gremillion sent a letter to

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Tiffany indicating that the voting registrars refused to
answer the interrogatories. The reasons given for the refusal were that many of the questions seemed unrelated
to the functions of voting registrars, that the questions
were neither accompanied by specific complaints nor related to specific complaints, and that the time and research
required to answer the questions placed an unreasonable
burden upon the voting registrars.
In response to this refusal, on May 29, 1959, Mr. Tiffany
sent a telegram to Mr. Gremillion, informing the latter
that the interrogatories were based upon specific allegations received by the Commission, and reaffirming the
Commission's position that the identity of specific complainants would not be disclosed. Mr. Tiffany's letter
contained a further request that the interrogatories be
answered and sent to the Commission by June 5, 1959.
On June 2, 1959, Mr. Gremillion wrote a letter to
Mr. Tiffany reiterating the registrars' refusal, and again
requesting that the names of complainants be disclosed.
Finally, as a result of this. exchange of correspondence,
and because the Commission's attempts to obtain information ex parte had been frustrated, the Commission, acting pursuant to Section 105 (f) of the Civil Rights Act of
1957,' decided to hold the Shreveport hearing commencing
on July 13, 1959.
5 Section 105 (f) of the Civil Rights Act authorizes the Commission
to hold hearings and to subpoena witnesses. That section provides:
"(f) Hearings;issuance of subpenas.
"The Commission, or on the authorization of the Commission any
subcommittee of two or more members, at least one of whom shall
be of each major political party, may, for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of this Act, hold such hearings and act at such times
and places as the Commission or such authorized subcommittee may
deem advisable. Subpenas for the attendance and testimony of
witnesses or the production of written or other matter may be issued
in accordance with the rules of the Commission as contained in sec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

Notice of the scheduled hearing was sent to Mr. Gremillion, and between June 29 and July 6, subpoenas duces
tecum were served on the respondents in No. 549, ordering
them to appear at the hearing and to bring with them
various voting and registration records within their custody and control. Subpoenas were also served upon the
respondents in No. 550. These private citizens were
apparently summoned to explain their activities with
regard to alleged deprivations of Negro voting rights.8
On July 8, 1959, Mr. Tiffany wrote to Mr. Gremillion,
enclosing copies -of the Civil Rights Act and of the Commission's Rules of Procedure.7 Mr. Gremillion's attention was also drawn to Section 102 (h) of the Civil Rights
Act, which permits witnesses to submit, subject to the discretion of the Commission, brief and pertinent sworn statements for inclusion in the record
Two days later, on July 10, 1959, the respondents in No.
549 and No. 550 filed two separate complaints in the. Distion 1975a (j) and (k) of this title, over the signature of the Chair-

man of the Commission or of such subcommittee, and may be served
by any person designated by such Chairman." 71 Stat. 636, 42
U. S. C. § 1975d (f).
8 The role of private citizens in depriving Negroes of their right
to vote was one of the questions involved in United States v. McElveen, 180 F. Supp. 10 (E. D. La.), aff'd as to defendant Thomas,
362 U. S. 58.
7 Rule 3 (i) of the Commission's Rules of Procedure, adopted on
July 1, 1958, prohibits witnesses or their counsel from cross-examining
other witnesses. That Rule reads:
"Interrogation of witnesses at hearings shall be conducted only by
members of the Commission or by authorized staff personnel."
S The full text of Section 102 (h) of the Civil Rights Act reads as
follows:
"(h) Submission of written statements.
"In the discretion of the Commission, witnesses may submit brief
and pertinent sworn statements in writing for inclusion in the record.
The Commission is the sole judge of the pertinency of testimony and
evidence adduced at its hearings." 71 Stat. 634, 42 U. S. C. §.1975a (h).

HANNAH v. LARCHE:
420

Opinion of the Court.

trict Court for the Western District of Louisiana. Both
complaints alleged that the respondents would suffer
irreparable harm by virtue of the Commission's refusal to
furnish the names of persons who had filed allegations of
voting deprivations, as well as the contents of the allegations, and by its further refusal to permit the respondentg
to confront and cross-examine the persons making such
allegations. In addition, both complaints alleged that the
Commission's refusals not only violated numerous provisions of the Federal Constitution, but also constituted
"ultra vires" acts not authorized either by Congress or the
Chief Executive. The respondents in No. 549 also alleged
that they could not comply with the subpoenas duces
tecum because Louisiana law prohibited voting registrars
from removing their voting records except "upon an order
of a competent court," and because the Commission was
not such a "court." Finally, the complaint in No. 549
alleged that the Civil Rights Act was unconstitutional because it did not constitute "appropriate legislation within
the meaning of Section (2) of the XV Amendment."
Both complaints sought a temporary restraining order
and a permanent injunction prohibiting the members of
the Commission (a) from compelling the "testimony from
or the production of any records" by the respondents until copies of the sworn charges, together with the names
and addresses of the persons filing such charges were given
to the respondents; ' (b) from "conducting any hearing
pursuant to the rules and -regulations adopted by" the
Commission; and ( ) from "conspiring together . . or
with any other person . . . to deiny complainants their
rights and privileges as citizens" of Louisiana or the
9 Under the Civil Rights Act, the Commission not only has the
power to issue subpoenas under Section 105 (f), but, as is customary
when Congress confers the subpoena power on an investigative agency,
the Commission is also authorized to enforce its subpoenas by enlisting the aid of the federal courts. 71 Stat. 636, 42 U. S. C. § 1975d (g).

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
P

Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

United States "or to deny to complainants their right to
be confronted by their accusers, to know the nature and
character of the charges made against them," and to be
represented by counsel. The complaint in No. 549 also
sought a declaratory judgment that the Civil Rights Act
of 1957 was unconstitutional.
On the day that the complaints were filed, the district
judge held a combined hearing on the prayers for temporary restraining orders. On July 12, 1959, he found that
the respondents would suffer irreparable harm if the hearings were held as scheduled, and he therefore issued the requested temporary restraining orders and. rules to show
cause why a preliminary injunction should not be granted.
Larche v. Hannah, 176 F. Supp. 791.' The order prohibited the Commission from holding any hearings which
concerned the respondents or others similarly situated until a determination was made on the motion for a preliminary injunction.
Inasmuch as the complaint in No. 549 attacked the
constitutionality of the Civil Rights Act, a three-judge
court was convened pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2282. Since
the complaint in No. 550 did not challenge the constitutionality of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, that case was
scheduled to be heard by a single district judge. That
district judge was also a member of the three-judge panel
in No. 549, and a combined hearing was therefore held on
both cases on August 7, 1959.
On October 7, 1959, a divided three-judge District Court
filed an opinion in No. 549. Larche v. Hannah, 177 F.
Supp. 816. The court held that the Civil Rights Act of
1957 was constitutional since it "very definitely constitutes appropriate legislation" authorized by the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments and Article I, Section
2, of the Federal Constitution. Id., at 821. The court
then held that since the respondents' allegations with
regard to apprisal, confrontation, and cross-examination

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

raised a "serious constitutional issue," this Court's decision in Greene v. McElroy, 360 U. S. 474, required a
preliminary determination as to whether Congress specifically authorized the Commission "to. adopt rules for
investigations . . . which would deprive parties investigated of their rights of confrontation and cross-examination and their right to be apprised of the charges against
them." 177 F. Supp., at 822. The court found that
Congress had not so authorized the Commission, and an
injunction was therefore issued. In deciding the case on
the issue of authorizatiofi, the court never reached the
''serious constitutional issue" raised by the respondents'
allegations. 10 The injunction prohibits the Commission
from holding any hearing in the Western District of Louisiana wherein the registrars, "accused of depriving others
of the right to vote, would be denied the right of apprisal,
confrontation, and cross examination." " The single dis10 Judge Wisdom, who dissented, was of the opinion that the procedures adopted by the Commission were authorized by Congress, and
that those procedures were also constitutional. 177 F. Supp., at 828.

The court's injunction reads as follows:
"For reasons assigned in the Court's written opinion of October 6,
1959
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that defendants and their
agents, servants, employees and attorneys-are enjoined and restrained
from conducting the proposed hearing in Shreveport, Louisiana,
wherein plaintiff registrars, accused of depriving others of the right
to vote, would be denied, the right of apprisal, confrontation and
cross examination.
"This injunction does not prohibit all hearings pursuant to Public
Law 85-3,15, 85th Congress, 42 U. S. C. A. 1975, et seq., but only
those hearings proposed to be held in the Western District of Louisiana wherein the accused are denied the right of apprisal, confrontation and cross examination.
"Thus done and signed in Chambers on this the 9 day of November,
1959."
The breadth of this injunction is indicated by the fact' that the
Commission is not only prohibited from compelling -respondents'
11

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

trict judge rendered a decision in No. 550 incorporating
by reference the opinion of the three-judge District Court,
and an injunction, identical in substance to that entered
in No. 549, was issued.
I.
We held last Term in Greene v. McElroy, supra,
that when action taken by an inferior governmental
agency was accomplished by procedures which raise serious constitutional questions, an initial inquiry will be
made to determine whether or not "the President or
Congress, within their respective constitutional powers,
specifically has decided that the imposed procedures are
necessary. and warranted and has authorized their use."
Id.,'at 507. The considerations which prompted us in
Greene to analyze the question of authorization before
reaching the constitutional issues presented are no less
pertinent, in this case. Obviously, if the Civil Rights
Commission was not authorized to adopt the procedures
complained of by the respondents, the case could be disposed of without a premature determination of serious
constitutional questions. See Vitarelliv. Seaton, 359 U. S.
535; Kent v. Dulles; 357 U. S. 116; Watkins v. United
States, 354 U. S. 178; Peters v. Hobby, 349 U. S. 331.
We therefore consider first the question of authorization. As indicated above, the Commission specifically refused to disclose to the respondents the identity of persons
who had submitted sworn complaints to the Commission
and the specific charges contained in those complaints.
Moreover, the respondents were informed by the Commission that they would not be permitted to cross-examine
appearance at the hearing, but it is also enjoined from conducting
any hearing in the Western District of Louisiana under existing rules
of procedure, whether or not the respondents are called as witnesses.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

any witnesses at the hearing. The respondents contend,
and the court below held, that Congress did not authorize
the adoption of procedural rules which would deprive
those being investigated by the Commission of the rights
to apprisal, confrontation, and cross-examination. The
court's holding is best summarized by the following language from its opinion:
"[W]e find nothing in the Act which expressly
authorizes or permits the Commission's refusal to
inform persons, under investigation for criminal
conduct, of the nature, cause and source of the
accusations against them, and there is nothing in the
Act authorizing the Commission to deprive these
persons of the right of confrontation and cross-examination." 177 F. Supp., at 822.
After thoroughly analyzing the Rules of Procedure contained in the Civil Rights Act of 1957 and the legislative
history which led to the adoption of that Act, we are of
the opinion that the court below erred in its conclusion
and that Congress did authorize the Commission to adopt
the procedures here in question.
It could not be said that Congress ignored the procedures which the Commission was to follow in conducting
its hearings. Section 102 of the Civil Rights Act of 1957
lists a number of procedural rights intended to safeguard
witnesses from potential abuses. Briefly summarized,
the relevant subdivisions of Section 102 provide that the
Chairman shall make an opening statement as to the subject of the hearing; that a copy of the Commission's rules
shall be made available to witnesses; that witnesses "may.
be accompanied by their own counsel for the purpose of
advising them concerning their constitutional rights";
that potentially defamatory, degrading, or incriminating
testimony shall be received in executive session, and

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U.S.

that any person defamed, degraded, or incriminated by
such testimony shall have an opportunity to appear voluntarily as. a witness and to request the Commission to
subpoena additional witnesses; that testimony taken in
executive session shall be released only upon the consent
of the Commission; and that witnesses may submit brief
and pertinent sworn statements in writing for inclusion
in the record. 2
12

The complete text of Section 102 reads as follows:

"§ 1975a. Rules of procedure.

"(a) Opening statement.
"The Chairman or one designated by him to act as Chairman at.a
hearing of the Commission shall announce in an opening statement
the subject of the hearing.
"(b) Copy of rules.
"A copy of the Commission's rules shall be made available to the
witness before the Commission.
"(c) Attendance of counsel.
"Witnesses at the hearings may be accompanied by their own
counsel for the purpose of advising them concerning their constitutional rights.
"(d) Censure and exclusion of counsel.
"The Chairman or Acting Chairman may punish breaches of order
and decorum and unprofessional ethics on the part of counsel, by
censure and exclusion from the hearings.
"(e) Defamatory, degradingor incriminatingevidence.
"If the Commission determines that evidence or testimony at any
hearing may tend to defame, degrade; or incriminate any person, it
shall (.J) receive such evidence or testimony in executive session:
(2) afford such person an opportunity voluntarily to appear as a
witness; and (3) receive and dispose of requests from such person
to subpena additional witnesses.
!'(f) Requests for additionql witnesses.
"Except as provided in this section and section 1975d (f) of this
title, the Chairman shall receive and the Commission shall dispose
of requests to subpena additional witnesses.
[Footnote 12 continued on pp. 433-434.]

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of tn

Court.

The absence of any reference to apprisal, confrontation,
and cross-examination, in addition to the fact that counsel's role is specifically limited to advising witnesses of
their constitutional rights, creates a presumption that
Congress did not intend witnesses appearing before the
Commission to have the rights claimed by respondents.
This initial presumption is strengthened beyond any
"(g) Release of evidence taken in executive session.
"No evidence or testimony taken in executive session may be
released or used in public sessions without the consent of the Commission. Whoever. releases or uses in public without the consent of the
Commission evidence or testimony taken in executive session shall be
fined not more than $1,000,.or imprisoned for not more than one year.
"(h) Submission of written statements.
"In the discretion of the Commission, witnesses may submit brief
-and pertinent swornstatements in writing for inclusion in the record.
The Commission is the sole judge of the pertinency of testimony and
evidence adduced at its hearings.
"(i) Transcripts.
"Upon payment- of the cost thereof, a witness may obtain a transcript copy of his testimony given at a public session or, if given at
an executive session, when authorized by the Commission.

"(j) Witness fees.
"A witness attending any session of the Commission shall receive
$4 for each day's attendance and for the time necessarily occupied
in going* to and returning from the same, and 8 cents per mile .for
going from and returning to his place of residence. Witnesses who
attend at points so far removed from their respective residences as
to prohibit return thereto from day to day shall be entitled to an
additional allowance of $12 per. diy for expenses of subsistence,
including the time necessarily occupied in going to and returning
from the place of attendance. Mileage payments shall be tendered
to the witness upon service of a-subpena issued on behalf of the
Commission or any subcommittee thereof.
"(k) Restriction on :issuance of subpena.
"The Commission shall not issue any subpena for th6 attendance
and testimony of witnesses or for the pioduction of written or other
550582 0-60-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

reasonable doubt, by an investigation of the legislative
history "of the Act.
The complete story of the 195.7 Act begins with the
1956 House Civil Rights Bill, H. R. 627. That bill was
reported out of the House Judiciary Committee without
any reference to the procedures to be used by the Commission in 'conducting its hearings. H. R. Rep. No. 2187,
84th Cong., 2d Sess. During the floor debate, Representative Dies of Texas introduced extensive amendments designed to regulate the procedure of Commission
hearings. 102 Cong. Rec. 13542. Those amendments
would have guaranteed to witnesses appearing before the
Commission all of the rights claimed by the respondents
in these cases. The amendments provided, in pertinent
part,, that a person who might be adversely affected by
the testimony of another "shall be fully advised by the

-

matter which would require the presence of the party subpenaed at
a hearing to be held outside of the State, wherein the witness is found
or resides or transacts business." 71 Stat. 634, 42 U. S. C. § 1975a.
In addition to the procedural safeguards provided by Section 102
of the Act, the Commission's Rules of Procedure grant additional
protection. Thus, Rule 3 (f) of the Commission's Rules of Procedure
provides:
"(f) An accurate transcript shall be made of the testimony of all
witnesses in all hearings, either public or executive sessions, of the
Commission or of any subcommittee thereof. Each witness shall
have the right to ir.pect the record of his own testimony.' A transcript copy of his testimony may be purchased by a witness pursuant
to Rule 2 (i) above. Transcript copies of public sessions may be
obtained by the public upon payment of the cost thereof."
And Rule 3 (j) provides:
"(j) If the Commission pursuant to Rule 2 (e), or any subcommittee thereof, determines that evidenceor testimony at any hearing
may tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person, it shall
advise such person that such evidence has been given and it shall
afford such person an opportunity to read the pertinent testimony
and to appear as a voluntary witness or to file a sworn statement in
his behalf."

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

Commission as to the matters into which the Commission
proposes to inquire and the adverse material which is
proposed to be presented"; that a person adversely
affected by evidence or testimony given at a public hearing could "appear and testify or file a sworn statement
in his own behalf"; that such a person could also "have
the adverse witness recalled" within a stated time;
and that he or his counsel could cross-examine adverse
1
witnesses. 3
13

The amendments introduced by Representative Dies read, in

pertinent part, as follows:
"'(q) A person shall be considered to be adversely affected by

evidence or testimony of a witness if the Commission determines
that: (i) the evidence or testimony would constitute libel or slander
if not presented before the Commission or (ii) the evidence or testimony alleges crime or misconduct or tends to disgrace or otherwise
to expose the person to pdblic contempt, hatred, or scorn.
"'(r) Insofar as practicable, any person whose activities are the
subject of investigation by the Commission, or about whom adverse
information is proposed to be presented at a public hearing of
the Commission, shall be fully advised by the Commission as to the
matters into which the Commission proposes to inquire and the
adverse material which is proposed to be presented. Insofar as
practicable, all material reflecting adversely on the character or
reputation.of any individual which is proposed to be presented at a
public hearing of the Commission shall be first reviewed in executive
session to determine its reliability and probative value and shall not
be presented at a public hearing except pursuant to majori ty vote
of the Commission.
"'(s) If a person is adversely affected by evidence or testimony
given in a public hearing, that person shall have the right: (i) to
appear and testify or file a sworn statement in his own behalf,
(ii) to have the adverse witness recalled upon applicatior made
within thirty days after introduction of such evidence or determination of the adverse witness' testimony, (iii) to be represented by
counsel as heretofore provided, (iv) to cross-examine (in person or
by counsel) such adverse witness, and (v) subject to the discretion of
the Commission, to obtain the issuance by the Commission of sub-penas for witnesses, documents, and other evidence in his defense.
Such opportunity for rebuttal shall be afforded promptly and, so

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

The bill,-as finally passed by the House, contained all
of the amendments proposed by Representative Dies.
102 Cong. Rec. 13998-13999. However, before further
action could be taken, the bill died in the Senate. Although many proposals relating to civil rights were introduced in the 1957 Session of Congress, two bills became
the prominent contenders for support. One was S. 8.3,
a bill introduced by Senator Dirksen containing the same
procedural provisions that the amended House bill in
1956 had contained. The other bill, H. R. 6127, was
introduced by Representative Celler, Chairman of the
House .Judiciary Committee, and this bill incorporated
the so-called House "fair play" rules as the procedures
which should govern the conduct of Commission hearings." After extensive debate and hearings, H. R. 6127
far as practicable, such hearing shall be conducted at the same place
and under the same circumstances as the hearing at which adverse
testimony was presented.
"'Cross-examination shall be limited to one hour for each witness,
unless the Commission by majority vote extends the time for each
witness or group of witnesses.
"'(t) If a person is adversely affected by evidence or testimony
given in executive session or by material in the Commission files or
records, and if public release of such evidence, testimony, or material
is contemplated such person shall have, prior to the public release
of such evidence or testimony or material or any disclosure of or
comment upon it by members of the Commission or Commission
staff or taking of similar evidence or testimony in a public hearing,
the rights heretofore conferred and the right to inspect at least as
much of the evidence or testimony of the adverse witness or material
as will be made public or the subject of a public hearing.
"'(u) Any witness (except a member of the press who testifies
in his professional capacity) who gives testimony before the Commission in an open hearing which reflects adversely on the character
or reputation of ,another person may be required by the Commission
to disclose his sources of information, unless to do so would endanger
the national security.'" 102 Cong. Rec. 13542-13543.
14 The complete text of the House "fair play" rules may be found
in H. Res. 151, 84th Cong., 1st Sess.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

437

Opinion of the Court.

was finally passed by both Houses of Congress, and the
House. "fair play" rules, which make no provision for
advance notice, confrontation, or cross-examination, were
adopted in preference to the more protective rules suggested in S. 83.11
15That Congress focused upon the issues here involved and recognized the distinctions between H. R. 6127 and S. 83 is attested to
by the following extracts from the floor debate and committee
hearings:
In testifying before both the House and Senate Subcommittees
considering the various proposed civil rights bills, Attorney General
Brownell supported the adoption of the House "fair play"- rules
instead of the more restrictive procedures outlined in S. 83. Thus,
at the Senate hearings, the Attorney General made the following
statement:
"Now there is one other addition to S.83 that I would like to make
special reference to and that is the provision for rules of procedure
contained in section 102 on pages 2 to 10 of S.83.
"These rules of procedure are considerably more restrictive than
those imposed on regular committees of the House and Senate. There
is much in them which clearly would be desirable. We have not as
yet had any experience with the use of rules such as those proposed
here and we cannot predict the extent to which they. might be used
to obstruct the work of the Commission.
"Yet I fbei that the task to be given to this Commission is of such
great public importance that it would be a mistake to make it the
vehicle -for experimenting with new- rules which may have to be
tested out under the courts and this is only a 2-year Commission
and you might have to spend those 2 years studying the rules instead
of getting at the facts." Hearings before Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights of the Senate Judiciary Committee, 85th 'Cong.,
1st Sess. 14-15.
See also Hearings before Subcommittee No. 5 of'the House Judiciary
Committee, 85th Cong., 1st Sess. 593.
The lack of any right to cross-examine witnesses was commented
upon by menibers of both the House and the Senate:
Statement of Senator Talmadge during the Senate floor debate,
103 Cong. Rec. 11504:
"No provision is made for notification of persons against whom
charges are to-be made.
[Footnote 15 continued on pp. 438- 4 99.]

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U.S.

The legislative background of the Civil Rights Act not
only provides evidence of congressional authorization,
but it also distinguishes these cases from Greene v.
McElroy, supra, upon which the court below relied so
heavily. In Greene there was no express authoriz ...
tion by Congress or the President for the Department
of Defense to adopt the type of security clearance
program there involved. Nor was-there any legislative
history or executive directive indicating that the Secretary of Defense was -authorized to establish a security
clearance program which could deprive a person of his
government employment on the basis of secret and undisclosed information. Therefore, we concluded in Greene
that because of the serious constitutional problems
presented, mere acquiescence by the President or the
Congress would not be sufficient to constitute authoriza"No provision is made for persons adversely affected by testimony
taken by the Commission to be present when they are accused or
later to confront and cross-examine their accusers."
Statement of Senator Stennis during Senate floor debate, 103 Cong.
Rec. 13835:
"Defamatory testimony tending to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person cannot be heard by the person slandered, since the
testimony must be taken in executive session. There is no requirement in the proposed statute that the person injured by defamatory
testimony shall have an opportunity to examine the nature of the
adverse testimony. He has no right of confrontation nor cross-examination, and his request to subpena witnesses on his behalf falls within
the arbitrary discretion of the Commission. There is no right to
subpena witnesses."
Statement of Representative Kilday during House floor debate,
103 Cong. Rec. 8673:
"The bill provides that witnesses may be accompanied by counsel,
for what purpose? 'For the purpose of advising them concerning
their constitutional rights.' That is all. Even though the Commission or its own counsel develops only a portion of a transaction, and
that adverse to the witness, his lawyer cannot ask a single question
to develop the remainder of the transaction or the portion favorablc
to him."

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

tion for the security clearance procedures adopted by
the Secretary of Defense. The facts of this case present
a sharp contrast to those before the Court in Greene.
Here, we have substantially more than the mere acquiescence upon which the Government relied in Greene.
There was a conscious, intentional selection by Congress
of one bill, providing for none of the procedures demanded
by respondents, over another bill, which provided for all
of those procedures. We have no doubt that Congress'
consideration and rejection of the procedures here at
issue constituted an authorization to the Commission
to conduct its hearings according to the Rules Qf Procedure it has adopted, and to deny to witnesses the
rights of apprisal, confrontation, and cross-examination.
Statement of Representative Frazier during Hearings before the

House Rules Committee, 85th Cong., 1st Sess. 176:
"The authors of this proposal contemplate that it will yield thousands of complaints and even more thousands of subpenas will be
issued. The various allegations -will, in the first instance, be incon-

trovertible and wholly ex parte and the principal concerned, against.
whom the charges are made, when summoned as a witness is given
no opportunity to cross-examine. True, the person summoned as
a witness may have counsel (sec. 102), but only for the purpose of
advising him of 'his constitutional rights."
That the bill contained the House "fair play" rules is demonstrated
by the following statement of Representative Celler, the author of
the bill:
"The rules of procedure of the Commission are the same as those
which govern the committees of the House. For example, the chair-

man is required to make an opening statement as to the subject of
the hearing. Witnesses are furnished with a copy of the Commission's rules and may be accompanied by counsel. The. chairman is
authorized to punish breaches of order by censure and exclusion.
Protection is furnished to witnesses when it appears that a person
may be the subject of derogatory information, by requiring such
evidence to b6 received in executive session, and affording the person
affected the right to appear and testify,
further to submit a
"request for subpena of additional witnesses."and 103
Cong. Rec. 8491.
(Emphasis supplied.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

II.

The existence of authorization inevitably requires us
to determine whether the Commission's Rules of Procedure are consistent with the Due Process Clause of the
Fifth Amendment."8
Since the requirements of due process frequently vary
with the type of proceeding involved, e. g., compare Opp
Cotton Mills, Inc. v. Administrator, 312 U. S.126, 152,
with Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & N. R.

Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91, we think it is necessary at the outset
to ascertain both the nature and function of this Commission. Section 104 of the Civil Rights Act of 1957 specifies
the duties to be performed by the Commission. Those
duties consist of (1) investigating written, sworn allegations that anyone has been discriminatorily deprived of
his right to vote; (2) studying and collecting information
"concerning legal developments constituting a denial of
equal protection of the laws under the Constitution";
and (3) reporting to the President and Congress on its
activities, findings, and recommendations." As is apparAlthough the respondents contend that the procedures adopted
by the Commission also violate their rights under the -Sixth Amendment, their claim does not merit extensive discussion. That Amendment is specifically limited to "criminal prosecutions," and the
proceedings of thd Commission clearly do not fall within that
category. See United States v. Zucker, 161 U. S.475, 481.
17The full text of Section 104 of the Act reads as follows:
16

"§ 1975c. buties; reports; termination.

"(a) The Commission: shall"(1) investigate allegations in Writing under oath or affirmation
that certain citizens of the United States are being deprived of their
right to vote and have that vote counted by reason of their color,
race, religion, or national origin; which writing, under oath or
affirmation, shall set forth the facts upon which such belief or beliefs
are based;
"(2) study and. collect information concerning legal developments

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

ent from this brief sketch of the statutory duties imposed
upon the Commission, its function is purely investigative
and fact-finding. It does not adjudicate. It does not
hold trials or determine - anyone's civil or criminal
liability. It does not issue orders. Nor does it indict,
punish, or impose any legal sanctions. It does not
make determinations depriving anyone of his life, liberty,
or property. In short, the Commission does not and
cannot take any affirmative action which will affect an
individual's legal rights, The only purpose of its existence
is to find facts which may subsequently be used as the
basis for legislative or executive action.
The specific constitutional question, therefore, is
whether persons whose conduct is Under investigation by
a governmental agency of this nature are entitled, by
virtue of the Due Process Clause, to know the specific.
charges that are being investigated, as well as the identity
of the complainants, 8 and to have the right to crossconstituting a denial of equal protection of the laws under the
Constitution; and
"(3) appraise the laws and policies of the Federal Government
with respect to equal protection of the laws under the Constitution.
"(b) The Commission shall submit interim reports to the President
and to the Congress at such times as either the Commission or the
President shall deem desirable, and shall submit to the President and
to the Congress a final and comprehensive report of its activities,
findings, and recommendations not later than two years from
September 9, 1957.
"(c) Sixty days after the submission of its final report and recommendations the Commission shall cease to exist." 71 Stat. 635, 42'
U. S. C. § 1975c.
18 It should be noted that the respondents in these cases did have
notice of the general nature of the inquiry. The only information
withheld from them was the identity of specific complainants and
the exact charges made by those complainants. Because most of the
charges related to the denial of individual voting rights, it is apparent
that the Commission could not have disclosed the exact charges
without also revealing the names of the complainants.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

examine those complainants and other witnesses. Although these procedures are very desirable in some situations, for the reasons which we shall now indicate, we
are of the opinion that they are not. constitutionally
required in the proceedings of this Commission.
"Due process" is an elusive concept. Its exact boundaries are undefinable, and its content varies according
to specific factual contexts. Thus, when governmental
agencies adjudicate or make binding determinations which
directly affect the legal rights of individuals, it is imperative that those agencies use the procedures which have
traditionally been associated with the judicial process.
On the other hand, when governmental action does not
partake of an adjudication, as for example, when a general
fact-finding investigation is being conducted, it' is not
necessary that the full panoply of judicial procedures be
used. Therefore, as a generalization, it can be said that
due process embodies the differing rules of fair play, which
through the years, have become associated with differing
types of proceedings. Whether the Constitution requires
that a. particular right obtain in a specific proceeding
depends upon a complexity of factors. The nature of the
alleged right involved, the nature of the proceeding, and
the possible burden on that proceeding, are all considertions which must be taken into account. An analysis of
these factors demonstrates why it is that the particular
rights claimed by the respondents need not be conferred
upon those appearing before purely investigative agencies,
of which the Commission on Civil Rights is one.
It is probably sufficient merely to indicate that the
rights claimed by respondents are normally associated
only with adjudicatory proceedings, and that since the
Commission does not adjudicate, it need not be bound
by adjudicatory procedures. Yet, the respondents contend, and the court below implied, that such procedures

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

are required since the Commission's proceedings might
irreparably -harm those being investigated by subjecting
them to public opprobrium and scorn, the distinct likelihood of losing their jobs, and the possibility Of criminal
prosecutions. That any of these consequences will result
is purely conjectural. There is nothing in the record to
indicate that such will be the case or that past Commission hearings have had any harmful effects upon witnesses
appearing before the Commission. However, even if such
collateral consequences were to flow from the Commission's investigations, they would not be the result of any
affirmative determinations made by the Commission, and
they would not affect the legitimacy of the Commission's
investigative function."9
On the other hand, the investigative process could be
completely disrupted if investigative hearings were transformed into trial-like proceedings, and if persons who
might be indirectly affected by an investigation were given
an absolute right to cross-examine every witness called
to testify. Fact-finding agencies without any power to
adjudicate would be diverted from their legitimate duties
and would be plagued by the injection of collateral issues
that would make the investigation interminable. Even
a person not called as a witness could demand the right to
appear at the hearing, cross-examine any witness whose
testimony or sworn affidavit allegedly defamed or incriminated him, and call an unlimited number of witnesses of
19

Cf. Sinclair v. United States, 279 U. S. 263, 295, holding that

Congress' legitimate right to investigate is not affected by the fact
that information disclosed at the investigation may also be used in a
subsequent criminal prosecution. Cf. also McGrain v. Daugherty,
273 U. S. 135, 179-180, holding that'a regular congressional investigation is not rendered invalid merely because "it might possibly disclose crime or wrongdoing" on the part of .vitnesses summoned to
appear at the investigation. Id., at 180.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

his own selection.'
This type of proceeding would make
a shambles of the investigation and stifle the agency in its
gathering of facts.
In addition to these persuasive considerations, we think
it is highly significant that the Commission's procedures
are not historically foreign to other forms of investigation
under our system. Far from being unique, the Rules of
Procedure adopted by the Commission are similar to
those which, as shown by the Appendix to this opinion,21
have traditionally governed the proceedings of the vast
majority of governmental investigating agencies.
A frequently used type of investigative agency is the
legislative committee. The investigative function of such
committees is as old as the Republic." The volumes
written about legislative investigations have proliferated
almost as rapidly as the legislative committees themselves,
and'the courts have on more than one occasion been confron'ted with the legal problems presented by such committees. 3 The procedures adopted by legislative invesThe injunction issued by the court below would certainly lead
to this result since it prohibits the Commission from conducting any
20

hearing under existing procedure, even though those being investigated are not summoned to testify.
' A compilation of the rules of prdcedure governing the investigative proceedings of a representative group of administrative and
executive agencies, presidential commissions, and congressional committees is set out in the Appendix to this opinion, post, p. 454.
22 The first full-fledged congressional investigating committee was
established in 1792 to "inquire into the causes of the failure of the
late expedition under Major General St. Clair." 3 Annals of Cong.
493 (1792.). The development and use of legislative investigation
by the colonial governments is discussed in Eberling, Congressional
Investigations, 13-30. The English origin of legislative investigation
.in this country is discussed in Dimock, Congressional Investigating
Committees, 46-56.
22 See, e. g., Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; McGrain v.
Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135; Sinclair v. United States, 279 U. S. 263;
Christoffel v. United States, 338 U. S. 84; United States v. Bryan,

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

tigating committees have varied over the course of years.
Yet, the history of these committees clearly demonstrates
that only infrequently have witnesses appearing before
congressional committees been afforded the -procedural
rights normally associated with an adjudicative proceeding. In.the vast majority of instances, congressional committees have -not given witnesses detailed notice or an
opportunity to confront, cross-examine and call other
witnesses.2"
The history of investigations conducted by the executive branch of the Government is also marked by a
decided absence of those procedures here in issue.2" The
best example is provided by the administrative regulatory agencies. Although these agencies normally make
determinations of a quasi-judicial nature, they also
frequently conduct purely fact-finding investigations.
When doing the former, they are governed by the Administrative Procedure Act, 60 Stat. 237, 5 U. S. C. §§ 10011011, and the parties to the adjudication are accorded
the traditional safeguards of a trial. However, when
339 U. S. 323; United States v. Fleischman, 339 U. S. 349; Watkins v.
United States, 354 U. S. 178; Barenblatt v. United States, 360
'U.24S. 109.
See Appendix, post, pp. 478-485. See also Dimock, Congressional
Investigating Committees, 153; Eberling, Congressional Investigations,
283, 390; McGeary, The Developments of Congressional Investigative Power, 80; Liacos, Rights of Witnesses Before Congressional
Committees, 33 B. U. L. Rev. 337, 359-361; American Bar Association,
Special Committee on Individual Rights as Affected by National
Security, Appendix to Report on Congressional Investigations, 67-68.
The English practice is described in Clokie and Robinson, Royal
Commissions of Inquiry; Finer, Congressional Investigations: The
British System, 18 U. of Chi. L. Rev. 521; Keeton, Parliamentary
Tribunals of Inquiry, in Vol. 12, Current Legal Problems 1959, 12.
25 See Appendix, post, pt. 454-471.
See also Gellhorn, Federal
Administrative Proceedings, 108; Report of the Attorney General's
Committee on Administrative Procedure and the various Monographs
written by that Committee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

these agencies are conducting nonadjudicative, fact-finding investigations, rights such as apprisal, confrontation,
and cross-examination generally do not obtain.
A typical agency is the Federal Trade Commission. Its
rules draw a clear distinction between adjudicative proceedings and investigative proceedings. 16 CFR, 1958
Supp., § 1.34. Although the latter are frequently initiated
by complaints. from undisclosed informants, id., §§ 1.11,
1.15, and although the Commission may use the information obtained during investigations to initiate adjudicative proceedings, id., § 1.42, nevertheless, persons summoned to appear before investigative proceedings are
entitled only to a general notice of "the purpose and scope
of the investigation," id., § 1.33, and while they may have
the advice of counsel, "counsel may not, as a matter of
right, otherwise participate in the investigation." Id.,
§ 1.40. The reason for these rules is obvious. ' The Federal 'Trade Commission could not conduct an efficient
investigation if persons being investigated were permitted'
to convert the investigation into a trial. We have found
no authorities suggesting that the rules governing
Federal Trade Commission investigations violate the
Constitution, and this is understandable since any person
investigated by the Federal Trade Commission will be
accorded all the traditional judicial safeguards at a subsequent adjudicative proceeding, just as any person investigated by the Civil Rights Commission will have all
of these safeguards, 'should some type of adjudicative
proceeding subsequently be instituted.
Another regulatory agency which distinguishes between
adjudicative and investigative proceedings is the Securities and Exchange Commission. This Commission
conducts numerous investigations, many of which are
initiated by complaints from private parties. 17 CFR
§ 202.4. Although the Commission's Rules provide that
parties to adjudicative proceedings shall be given detailed

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

notice of the matters to be determined, id., 1959 Supp.,

§ 201.3, and a right to cross-examine witnesses appearing
at the hearing,.id., § 201.5, those provisions of the Rules
are made specifically inapplicable to investigations, id.,
§ 201.20,8 even though the Commission is required to
26

The Commission's practice with regard to investigations was

described by the Attorney General's Committee on Administrative
Procedure, Monograph, Securities Exchange Commission, 34-41. The
following extract is pertinent here:
"Where formal investigations are utilized as preliminariesto decisive
proceedings, the person being investigated is normally not sent a
notice, which, in any event, is not public. The order for investigation;
which includes the notice, is, however, exhibited to any person
examined in the course of such investigation who so requests; since
ordinarily the investigation will include the examination of the person
suspected of violation, he will, thus, have actual notice of the investigation. Since a person may, on the other hand, be wholly unaware
of the fact that he is being investigated until his friends who are
interviewed so inform him, and since this may sometimes give rise
to antagonism and a feeling that the Commission is besmirching him
behind his back, no reason is apparent why, simply as a .matter of
good will, the Commission should not in ordinary cases send a copy
of its order for investigation to the person under.investigation.
"The Commission's Rules of Practice expressly provide that all
such rules (governing notice, amendments, objections to evidence,
briefs, and the like) are inapplicable to formal investigatory hearings
in the absence of express provision to the contrary in the order and
with the exception of rule II, which relates to appearance and practice by representatives before the Commission. The testimony given
in such investigations is recorded . . . . In the usual case, witnesses
are granted the right to be accompanied by counsel, but the latter's
role is limited simply to advising the witnesses in respect of their
right against self-incrimination without claiming the benefits of the
immunity clause of the pertinent statute (a right of which the presiding officer is, in any event, instructed to apprise the witnesses) and
to making objections to questions which assertedly exceed the scope
of the order of investigation." Id., 37-38. (Emphasis supplied.) See
also Loss, Securities Regulation (1951), 1152.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

initiate civil or criminal proceedings if an investigation
discloses violations of law.27 Undoubtedly, the reason for
this. distinction is to prevent the sterilization of investigations by burdening them with trial-like procedures.
Another type of executive agency which frequently
conducts investigations is the presidential commission.
Although a survey of these commissions presents no definite pattern of practice, each commission has generally
been permitted to adopt whatever rules of procedure seem
appropriate to it,' and it is clear that many of the most
famous presidential commissions have adopted rules similar to those governing the proceedings of the Civil Rights
Commission.29 For example, the Roberts Commission
established in 1941 to ascertain the facts relating to the
Japanese attack upon Pearl Harbor, and to determine
whether the success of the attack resulted from any derelictions of duty on the part of American military personnel, did nof iermit any of the parties involved in the
investigation to cross-examine other witnesses. In fact,
many of the persons whose conduct was being investigated were not represented by counsel and were'not
present during the interrogation of other witnesses.
Hearings before the Joint Committee on. the Investigation of the Pearl Harbor Attack, 79th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pts. 22-25.
Having considered the procedures traditionally followed
by executive and legislative investigating agencies, we
think it would be profitable at this point to discuss the
'oldest and, perhaps, the best known of all investigative
bodies, the grand jury. It has never been considered
necessary to grant a witness summoned before the grand
27

Loss, Secuities Regulation (1951), 1153.

cited in the Appendix, post, p.'463.
2 Marcy, Presidential Commissions, 97-101.
29 .See Appendix, post, pp. 472-479.

See also the statutes

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

jury the right to refuse to testify merely because he did
not have access to the identity and testimony of prior
witnesses. Nor has it ever been considered essential that
a person being investigated by the grand jury be permitted to come before that body and cross-examine
witnesses who may have accused him of wrongdoing.
Undoubtedly, the procedural rights claimed by the
respondents have not been extended to grand jury hearings because of the disruptive influence their injection
would have on the proceedings, and also because the grand
jury merely investigates and reports. It does not try.
We think it is fairly clear from this survey of various
phases of governmental investigation that witnesses
appearing before investigating agencies, whether legislative, executive, or judicial, have generally not been
accorded the rights of apprisal, confrontation, or crossexamination. Although we do not suggest that the grand
jury and the congressional investigating committee are
identical in all respects to the Civil Rights Commission,"0
we mention them, in addition to the executive agencies
and commissions created by Congress, to show that the
rules of this Commission are not alien to those which
have historically governed the procedure of investigations conducted by agencies in the three major branches
of our. Government. The logic behind this historical
practice was recognized and described by Mr. Justice
Cardozo's landmark opinion in Norwegian Nitrogen
Products Co. v. United States, 288 U. S. 294. In that
30 However, the courts have on more than one occasion likened
investigative agencies of the executive branch of Government to a
grand jury. See, e. g., United States v. Morton Salt Co., 338 U. S.
632, 642; Oklahoma Press Pub. Co. v. Walling, 327 U. S. 186, 216;
Consolidated Mines of Calif. v. Securities & Exchange Comm'n, 97
F. 2d 704, 708 (C. A. 9th Cir.); Woolley v. United States, 97 F. 2d
258, 262 (C. A. 9th Cir.).
550582 0-60-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

case, the Court was concerned with the type of hearing
that the Tariff Commission was required to hold when
conducting its investigations. Specifically, the Court
was asked to decide whether the Tariff Act of 1922, 42
Stat. 858, gave witnesses appearing before the Commission
the right to examine confidential information in the Commission files and to cross-examine other witnesses testifying at Commission hearings. Although the Court did not
phrase its holding in terms of due process, we think that
the following language from Mr. Justice Cardozo's opinion
is significant:
"The Tariff Commission advises; these others ordain.
There is indeed this comnon bond that all alike are
instruments in a governmental process which according to the accepted classification is legislative, not
judicial. . . . Whatever the appropriate label, the
kind of order that emerges from a hearing before a
body with power to ordain is one that impinges upon
legal rights in a very ,different way from the report of
a commission which merely investigates and advises.
The traditionary forms of hearing appropriate to the
one body are unknown to the other. What issues
from the Tariff Commission as a report and recommendation to the President, may be accepted modified, or rejected. If it happens to be accepted, i.t does
not bear fruit in anything that trenches upon legal
rights." 288 U. S., at 318.
And in referring to the traditional practice of investigating bodies, Mr. Justice Cardozo had -this to say:.
"[W]ithin the meaning of this act the 'hearing'
assured to one affected by a change of duty does not
include a privilege to ransack the records of the Commission, and to subject its confidential agents to an
examination as to all that they have learned. There

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

was no thought to revolutionize the practice of
investigating bodies generally and of this one in
particular." Id., at 319. (Emphasis supplied.)
Thus, the purely investigative nature of the Commission's proceedings, the burden that the claimed rights
would place upon those proceedings, and the traditional
procedure of investigating agencies in general, leads 'us to
conclude that the Commission's Rules of Procedure
comport with the requirements of due process2
Nor do the authorities cited by respondents support
their position. They rely primarily upon Morgan v.
United States, 304 U. S. 1; Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee
Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U.. S. 123; and Greene v.
McElroy, supra. Those cases are all distinguishable
in that the government agency involved in each was
found by the Court to' have made determinations in the
nature of adjudications affecting legal rights. Thus, in
Morgan, the action of the Secretary of Agriculture in
fixing the maximum rates to be charged by market
agencies at stockyards was challenged. In voiding the
order of the Secretary for his failure to conduct a triallike hearing, the Court referred to the adjudicatory nature
of the proceeding:
"Congress, in requiring a 'full hearing,' had regard
to judicial standards,-not in any technical sense
but with respect to those fundamental requirements
of fairness which are of the essence of due process in
a proceeding of a judicial nature." 304 U. S., at 19.
'1 The Commission cites In re Groban, 352 U. S. 330, and Anonymous v. Baker, 360 U. S. 287, in support of its position. Each of us
who participated in those cases adheres to the view to which he subscribed therein. However, because there are significant differences
between the Groban and Anonymous-cases and the instant litigation,
and because the result we reach today is supported by the other considerations analyzed herein, the Court does not find it necessary to
discuss either of those cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

Likewise, in Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Comm. v.
McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 140-141, this Court held that
the Attorney General's action constituted an adjudication. Finally, our decision last year in Greene v.
McElroy lends little support to the respondents' position.
The governmental action there reviewed was certainly
of a judicial nature. The various Security Clearance
Boards involved in Greene were not conducting an investigation; they were determining whether Greene could
have a security clearance-a license in a real sense, and
one that had a significant impact upon his employment.
-By contrast, the Civil Rights Commission does not make
any binding orders or issue "clearances" or licenses
having legal effect. Rather,, it investigates and reports
leaving affirmative action, if there is to be any, to other
governmental agencies where there must be action de
novo.
The respondents have also contended that the Civil
Rights Act of 1957 is inappropriate legislation under the
Fifteenth Amendment. We have considered this argument, and we find it to be without merit. It would
unduly lengthen this opinion to add anything to the District Court's disposition of this claim. See 177 F. Supp.,
at 819-821.
Respondents' final argument is that the Commission's
hearings should be governed by Section 7 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 60 Stat. 241, 5 U. S. C. § 1006,
which specifies the hearing procedures to be used by
agencies falling within the coverage of the Act. One of
those procedures is the right of every party to conduct
"such cross-examination as may be required for a full and
true disclosure of the facts." However, what the respondents fail to recognize is that Section 7, by its terms,
applies only to proceedings under Section 4, 60 Stat. 238,
5 U. S. C. § 1003 (rule making), and Section 5, 60 Stat.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Opinion of the Court.

239, 5 U. S. C. § 1004 (adjudications), of the Act. As we
have already indicated, the Civil Rights Commission performs none of the functions specified in those sections.
From what we have said, it is obvious that the District
Court erred in both cases in enjoining the Commission
from holding its Shreveport hearing. The court's judgments are accordingly reversed, and the cases are
remanded with direction to vacate the injunctions.
Reversed and remanded.
[For opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring
in the result, see post, p. A86.]
[For concurring opinion of MR.

JUSTICE

HARLAN, joined

by MR. JUSTICE CLARK, see post, p. 493.]
' [For dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE
BLACK, see post, p. 493.]

by MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS,

joined

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

APPENDIX TO OPINION
[Footnotes at end of table]

Agency

Executipe and
Administrative Agencies 2
Atomic
Energy
Commission.

Scope of agency's Investigative authority

Extent of agency's subpoena power in inveStigative proceedings

The Commission is authorized

The Commission

to "make such studies and
investigations, . . . and hold
such meetings or hearings as
[it] may deem necessary or
proper to assist it in exercising"
any of its statutory functions.
•68 Stat. 948, 42 U.S.C. § 2201 (c).

may subpoena any
person to appear
and testify or
produce documents
"at any designated place." 68
Stat. 948, 42
U. S. C. § 2201 (c).

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

OF THE COURT'
[Footnotes at end of table]

The type of notice required
to be given in investigative
proceedings S

This is not specified
b statute. The
Commission's Rules
of Practice provide
that "Itihe procedure
to be followed in
informal hearings
shall be such as will
best serve the
Kurpose of the
earing." 10 CFR
§ 2.720. The Rules
of Practice do not
require any specific
type-of notice to be
given in informal
hearings. Ibid.

The right, if any, of persons
affected by an Investigation to cross-examine
others testifying at investigative proceedings 4

This is not specified
by statute. The
Commission's Rules
of Practice do not
require that those
summoned to appear
before informal
hearings be given
the right to crossexamine other
witnesses. Rather,
thd Commission is
given the discretion
to adopt those
procedures which
will best serve the
purpose of the
earing." 10 CFR
§ 2.720.

Miscellaneous comments

The Commission's
Rules of Practice
draw a sharp
distinction between
informal and formal
hearings. Formal
hearings are used
only in "cases of
adjudication," 10
CFR § 2.708, and
parties to the
earings are given
detailed notice of
the subject of the
hearing, id., § 2.735,
as well as the right
to cross-examine
witnesses, id., § 2.747.
Informal hearings
are used in
investigations "for
the purposes of
obtaining necessary
or useful information,
and affording
participation by
interested persons, in
the formulation,
amendment, or
rescission of rules
and regulations."
Id., § 2.708. The
safeguards which
are accorded in the
formal, adjudicative
hearings are not
mentioned in the
Commission's Rule
relating to informal
hearings. Id.,
§ 2.720.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

Federal
Communications
Commission.

Federal
Trade
Commission.

363 U. S.

Scope of agency's investigative authority

Extent of agency's sub.
poena power in Investigative proceedings

(1) The Commission is author-

(1) The Commis-

ized to investigate any matters
contained in a complaint "in
such manner and by such
means as it shall deem proper."
48 Stat. 1073, 47 U. S. C.§ 208.
(2) The Federal Communications Commission was also authorized to conduct a special
investigation of the American
Telephone and Telegraph
Company, and to obtain information concerning the company's history and structure,
the services rendered by it, its
failure to reduce rates, the
effect of monopolistic control
on the company, the methods
of competition engaged in by
the company, and the company's attempts to influence
public opinion by the use of
propaganda. 49 Stat. 43.

sion may "subpena the attendance.and testimony of witnesses
and the roduction of al1 books,
papers, schedules
of charges, contracts, agreements,
and documents
relating to any
.matter under investigation."
48
Stat. 1096, 47
U. S. C.§ 409 (e).
(2) The Commission was also
given the subpoena
power by the
statute authorizing the investig ation of the
merican Telephone and Telegraph Company.
49 Stat. 45.

(1) The Commission is author-

(1) The Commission may "subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses
and the production
of all such documentary evidence
relating to any
matter under in38
vestigation."

ized to investigate "the organization, business, conduct,
practices, and management of
any corporation engaged in
commerce"; to make an investigation of the manner in which
antitrust decrees are being carried out' to investigate and
report tie facts relating to any
alleged violations of the anti-

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given in Investigative
p.oceedingu

This is not'specified
by statute. The
Commission's Rules
of Practice do not
specify the type of
-notice to be given in
investigative proceedings. However,
the Rules do provide
that the "[p]rocedures to be followed
by the Commission
shall, unless specifically prescribed...
[in the Rules], be
such as in the opinion of the Commission will best serve
the purposes of...
[any investigative]
proceeding." 47
CFR § I.10.

The right, if any, of persons
affected by an Investiga.
ion to cross-examine
others testifying at Investigative proceedings4

This is not specified
by statute. N or do
the Commission's
Rules of Practice
refer to cross-examination in investiative proceedings.
herefore, whether
persons appearing at
an investigation
have the privilege of
cross-examining
witnesses apparently
depends upon
whether the Commission is of the
opinion that crossexamination "will
best serve the purposes of such proceeding." 47 CFR
§ 1.10. It should
also be noted that
even in that portion
of the Commission's
hules relating to
adjudicative proceedings, there is no
specific provision
relating to cross-

examination. Id.,
§§ 1.101-1.193.

(1) This is not specified by statute.
The Commission's
Rules of Practice
provide that "[any
party under investigation compelled to
furnish information
or documentary evidence shall be advised with respect to

(1) This is not specified by statute.
The Commission's
Rules of Practice
provide that a person required to testify in an investi,ative proceeding
may be accompanied and advised
by counsel, but

Miscellaneous comments

It should be noted
that the Commission's Report on the
Telephone Investigation made no
mention of the type
of notice, if any,
given to those
summoned to appear
at the investigation.
Nor was there any
reference to crossexamination. The
Commission did
permit the Company "to submit
statements in writing pointing out any
inaccuracies in
factual data or
statistics in the
reports introduced
in the hearings or in
any testimony in
connection therewith, provided that
such statements
were confined to the
presentation of facts
and that no attempt
would be made
therein to draw
conclusions therefrom." H. R. Doc.
No. 340, 76th Cong.,
1st Sess. xviii.
(1) It is interesting
to note that the
Commission's Rules
of Practice draw an
express and sharp
distinction between
investigative and adjudicative proceedings, and that the
Commission's Rules
relating to notice and

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

Scope of agency's Investigative authority

Federal
Trade
Commission-.
Continued.

trust Acts by any corporation;
and "to investigate . . . trade
conditions in and with foreign
countries where associations,
combinations, or practices of
manufacturers, merchants, or
traders, or other conditions,
may affect the foreign trade of
the United States."
38 Stat.
721-722, 15 U.S.C. § 46.
(2) The Commission was also
authorized to conduct a special
investigation of the motor
vehicle industry to determine
(a) "the extent ofconcentration of control and of monopoly
in the manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, and sale of
automobiles, accessories, and
parts, including methods and
devices used by manufacturers
for obtaining and maintaining
their control or monopoly ....
and the extent if any to which
fraudulent, dishonest, 'unfair,
and injurious methods . . .
[were] employed, including combinations, monopolies, price
fixing, or unfair trade practices";
and (b) "the extent tQ which any
of the antitrust laws of the
United States . .. . [were]
being violated." 52 Stat. 218.

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's subpoena power in investigative proceedings

Stat. 722, 15
U.S.C. § 49.
(2) The Commission was also
given the subpoena power
under the statute
authorizing the
investigation of
the motor vehicle
industry. 52
Stat. 218.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given in investigative
proceedings

The right, If any, of persons
affected by an Investigation
to cross-examine
othes testifying at Investigative proceedings'

counsel may not, as
the purpose and
a matter of right,
scope of the investiotherwise particigation." 16 CFR,
pate in the investi1959 Supp., § 1.33.
gation." 16 CFR,
(2) The Commis1959 Supp., § 1.40.
sion's Report on the
Moreover, while
Motor Vehicle Inthe Rules of Pracdustry did not inditice make no mencate what type of
tion of the right to
notice, if any, was
cross-examine witgiven to those sumnesses in investigamoned to testify at
tive proceedings, see
the investigation.
id., §1.31-1.42,
H.R. Doc. No. 468,
76th Cong., 1st Sess. such a right is specifically given to
Presumably, the
Commission's regular parties in an adjudicative proceeding.
Rules of Practice
Id., § 3.16.
obtained.
(2) The Commission's Report on the
Motor Vehicle Industry did not refer
to cross-examination. H.R. Doc.
No. 468, 76th Cong.,
1st Sess. Prpsumably, the Commission s regular
Rules of Practice
obtained.

Miscellaneous comments

cross-examination in
investigative proceedings are very
similar to those
adopted by the Civil
Rights Commission.
(2) It should also be
observed that FTC
investigations may
be initiated "upon
complaint by members of the consuming
public, businessmen,
or the concerns aggrieved by unfair
practices," 16 CFR,
1959 Supp.,§ 1.11,
and that complaints
received by the Commission may charge
"any violation of
law over which the
Commission has jurisdiction." Id., § 1.12.
(3) Also relevant to
our inquiry is the
fact that the Commission does not
"publish or divulge
the name of an applicant or complaing party." •Id., § 1.15.
(4) Finally, it is important to observe
that the FTC,
unlike the Civil
Rights Commission,
has the authority to
commence adjudicative proceedings
based upon the
material obtained
by means of investigative proceedings.
Id., § 1.42.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

I"

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's subpoena power In Investigative proceedings

Agency

Scope of agency's Investigative authority

National
Labor Relations
Board.

Under the National Labor
Relations Act, the Board is
given the power to investigate
petitions and charges submitted
to it relating to union representation and unfair labor
practices. 61 Stat. 144, 149,
29 U.S.C. § 159 (c), 160 (1).

"For
purpose
of all the
hearings
and investigations . . . the
Board [may] . . .
copy any evidence
of any person being investigated
or proceeded
against that reates to any matter under investigation," and it
may also issue
subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses
in any proceeding
or investigation.
61 Stat. 150, 29
U. S. C. § 161.

Securities
and Exchange
Commission.

(1) Under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, the Commrision is authorized to conduct "all investigations which
• . . are necessary and proper
for the enforcement of" the
Act. 48 Stat. 85, 15 U. S. C.
§ 77s (b).
(2) The Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 authorizes the
Commission to "make such
investigations as it deems necessary to determine whether
any person has violated or is
about to violate any provisions

All of the Acts
which authorize
the Commission to
conduct investigations also bestow
upon it the power
to subpoena witnesses, compel
their 'attendance,
and require the
production of any
books, correspondence, memoranda,
contracts, agreements, and other
records which are
relevant to the investigation. Securities Act of
1933, 48 Stat. 85,
15 U. S. C.
§77s (b); Securi-

of . . . [the Act] or any rule or

regulation thereunder.'" 48
Stat. 899 15 U S. C. § 78u (a).
(3) The Public Utility Holding

Company Act of 1935 empowers the Commission to
"investigate any facts, condi-

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given in investigative
proceedings I

The right, If any, of persons
affected by an investigato cross-examine
tion
others testifying at investigative proceedings 4

Miscellaneous comments

This is not specified
by statute. The
Board's Statements
of Procedure and
Rules and Regulations provide for the
preliminary investigation of all petitions
and charges received
by the Board. Although a copy of the
initial charge may
be served upon an
alleged violator,
there is no specific
rule requiring the
Board to give notice
of the preliminary
investigation. See
29 CFR, 1960 Supp.,
§§101.4, 101.18,
101.22, 101.27,
101.32, 102.63,
102.77, 102.85.

It should be noted
This is not specified
that the National Laby statute. The
bor Relations Board
Board's Statements
may use the informaof Procedure and
tion collected during
Rules and Regulations provide for the .preliminary investigations to initiate
right to cross-exadjudicative proceedamine witnesses at
ings. 61 Stat. 149
formal, adjudicative
29 U. S. C. § 160 (1).
hearings, 29 CFR,
The Commission on
1960 Supp.,
Civil Rights has no
§§101.10, 102.38,
such power. More102.66, 102.86,
over, the Board,
102.90, but there is
unlike the Civil
no such provision
Rights Commission,
with regard to premay use the informaliminary investigations. Id., §§101.4, tion obtained by it
101.18, 101.22, 101.27, through investiga101.32, 102.63, 102.77, tions to petition the
federal courts for
102.85.
appropriate injunctive relief, 61 Stat.
149, 29 U. S. C. § 160

This is not specified
by statute. Nor do
the Commission's
Rules of Practice.
relating to. formal
investigations make
any mention of the
type of notice which
must be given in
suchproceedings.
17 CFR § 202.4.
The Commission's
Rules do provide for
the giving of notice
in adjudicative .proceedings, id., 1959
Supp., § 201.3, but
this provision is
made specifically inapplicable to investigative proceedings.
Id., § 201.20.

This is not specified
by statute. The
Commission's Rules
of Practice make no
mention of the right
to cross-examine
witnesses in investigative proceedings.
17 CFR § 202.4.
Parties are given the
right to cross-examine witnesses in
adjudigative proceedings,id., §
201.5, but this provision is made specifically inapplicable
to investigative
roceedings. Id.,
201.20.

(1).

The Securities and
Exchange Commission's procedures for
investigative proceedings are very
similar to those of
the Civil Rights
Commission. Investigations may be
initiated upon complaints received from
members of the public, and these complaints may contain
specific charges of
illegal conduct. 17
CFR § 202.4. It
should be noted,
however, that the
Securities and Exchange Commission,
unlike the Civil

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

Securities
and Exchange
Commission-Con.

Scope of agency's Investigative authority

tions, practices, or matters
which it may deem necessary
or appropriate to determine
whether any person has violated or is about to violate any
provision of . . . [the Act] or
any rule or regulation thereunder, or to aid in the enforcement of the provisions of . . .
[the Act], in the prescribing of
rules and regulations thereunder, or in obtaining information to serve as a basis for recommending further legislation
concerning the matters to
which . . . [the Act] relates."
49 Stat. 831, 15 U. S. C. § 79r

(a).

(4) The Trust Indenture Act
of 1939 authorizes the Commission to conduct "any investigation . . . which . . . is
necessary and proper for the
enforcement of" the Act. 53
Stat. 1174,15 U. S. C. § 77uuu (a).
(5) The Investment Company
Act of 1940 gives the Commission the power to "make
such investigations as it deems
necessary to determine whether
any person has violated or is
about to violate any provision
of . . . [the Act] or of any
rule, regulation, or order thereunder, or to determine whether
any action in any court or any
proceeding before the Commission shall be -instituted under
. . . [the Act] against a particular person or persons, or
with respect to a particular
person or persons, or with
reslect to a particular trans54
action or transactions."
Stat. 842, 15 U. S. C. § 80a41(a).
(6) Finally, under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the
Commission is authorized to
determine by investigation

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's sub.
poem power In Investi.
gatve itoceedings

ties Exchange
Act of 1934, 48
Stat. 900, 15 U.
S. C. § 78u (b);
Public Utility
Holding Company
Act of 1935, 49
Stat. 831, 15
U. S. C. § 79r
(c); Trust Indenture Act of 1939,
53 Stat. 1174, 15
U. S. C. § 77uuu
(a); Investment
ompany Act of
1940, 54 Stat.
842, 15 U. S. C.
§ 80a-41 (b); Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
54 Stat. 853, 15
U. S. C. § 80b-9
(b).

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

463

Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The right. If any, of persons
The type of notice required

affected by an investiga-

to be given ih Investigative

tion

proceedings'

others testifying

to

cross-examine

Miscellaneous comments

at investigative proceedings 4

Rights Commission,
is an adjudicatory
body and it may

use the infbrmation
gathered through
investigative proceedings to initiate
"administrative proceedings looking to
the imposition of
remedial sanctions,
.... (or) injunction
proceedings in the
courts, and, in the
case of a willful
violation," it may
refer the "matter to
the Department of
Justice for criminal
Srosecution." Ibid.
ee also Securities
Act of 1933, 48 Stat.
86, 15 U. S. C. § 77t
(b) ; Securities
Exchange Act of
1934 48 Stat. 900,
15 U. S. C. § 78u
(e); Public Utility
Holding Company
Act of 1935, 49
Stat. 832, 15 U. S.
C. § 79r (f); Investment Company
Act of 1940, 54
Stat. 843, 15 U. S.
C. § 80a-41 (e); Investment Advisers
Act of 1940, 54
Stat. 854, 15 U. S.
C. § 80b-9 (e).

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

Securities
and Ex-,
change
Commission-Cop.

Scope of agency's investigative authority

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's sub.
poena power In Investigative proceedings

whether "the provisions of
. . . [the Act] or of any rule or
regulation prescribed under the
authority thereof, have been or
are about to be violated by any
person." 54 Stat. 853, 15
U. S. C. § 80b-9 (a).

The Defense Production Act of
Office of
1950 authorized the President
Price Stabi"to issue regulations and orders
lization. 5
establishing a ceiling or ceilings
on the price, rental, commission, margin, rate, fee, charge,
or allowance paid or received
on the sale or delivery, or the
purchase or receipt, by or to
any person, of any material or
service, and at the same time
... issue regulations and orders
stabilizing wages, salaries, and
other compensation in accordance with provisions of" the
Act. 64 Stat. 803. This authority was delegated to the
Economic Stabilization Administrator by Exec. Order No.
10161, 15 Fed. Reg. 6105. The
Administrator in turn delegated
the duty of issuing price regulations to the Office of Price
Stabilization. Gen. Order No.
2 of the Economic Stabilization
Agency, 16 Fed. Reg. 738.
Pursuant to this authority, the
Office of Price Stabilization promulgated Rules of Procedure,
Section 2 of which provided
that investigations would be
held before the issuance of a
ceiling price regulation. Price
Procedural Regulation 1, Revision 2-General Price Procedures, § 2, 17 Fed. Reg. 3788.

The Defense Production Act of
1950 conferred
upon the President
the power, "by
subpena or otherwise, to obtain
such information
from, require such
reports and the
keeping of such
records by, make
such inspection of
the books, records, and other
writings, premises
or property of,
and take the
sworn testimony
of, any person as
may be necessary
or appropriate, in
his discretion, to
the enforcement
or the administration of ...

[the]

Act and the regulations or orders
issued thereunder." 64 Stat.
816. This power
was delegated to
the Office of Price
Stabilization by
Exec. Order No.
10161, 15 Fed.
Reg. 6105; Gen.
Order No. 2 of
the Economic Stabilization Agency,
16 Fed. Reg. 738.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given in investigitive
proceedings a

This was not specified by statute or
Executive Order.
The Office's Rules
of Procedure provided that a general
E'blic notice was to
given in the Federal Register of all
pre-issuance hearings. Price Procedural Regulation 1General Price Procedures, § 4, 17 Fed.
Reg. 3788.

S50582 0-60-33

The right, if any, of persons
affected by an investigato cross-examine
lion
others testifying at investigative proceedings '

This was not specified by statute or
Executive Order.
Nor did the .Office's
Rules of Procedure
make any mention
of the right to crossexamine witnesses
appearing at preissuance hearings.
The Rules merely
said that the hearing was to "be conducted in such manner, consistent with
the need for expeditious action, as will
permit the fullest
possible presentation
of the evidence by
such persons as are,
in the judgment of
the Director, best
qualified to provide
information with respect to matters considered at the hearing or most likely to
be seriously affected
by action which may
be taken as a result
of the hearing."
Price Procedural
Regulation 1-General Price Procedures, § 5, 17 Fed.
Reg. 3788.

Miscellaneous comments

It should be noticed
that the Office's preissuance hearings
usually led to determinations which
had severe effects
upon certain individuals; yet, there
was no provision for
personalized, detailed notice or crossexamination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinionof the Court.

Agency

Office of
Price AdministrationA

Scope of agency's Investigative authority

The Administrator was "authorized to make such studies
and investigations and to obtain such information as he
. . . [deemed] necessary or

proper to assist him in prescribing any regulation or order
under . . . [the] Act, or in the

administration and enforcement of . . . [the] Act and

regulations, orders, and price
schedules thereunder." 56
Stat. 30.

The Department
of Agriculture.

(1) Under the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act of
1930, the Department is authorized to investigate any complaint
filed with the Secretary alleging
that someone has violated the
Act. 46 Stat. 534, 7 U. S. C.
t2499f(c)
.
2) The Department also enforces the Packers and Stock-

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's sub.
poena power In Investigative proceedings

"For the purpose
of obtaining any
information [in an
investigation]
. . . the Administrator . . .
[could] by subpena require any
. . . person to appear and testify
or to appear and
produce documents, or both, at
any designated
place." 56 Stat.
30.

(1) The Perishable
Agricultural Commodities Act of
1930 authorizes
the Secretary to
"require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses
and the produc-

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given in Investigative
proceedings I

The right, If any, of persons
affected by an Investiga.
tion
to cross-examine
others testifying at Investigative proceedings '

Miscellaneous comments

This was not specified by statute.
The Administrator's
Rules of Procedure
did not specify the
type of notice, if
any, to be given
during the investigative stage-of price
regulation proceedings. 32 CFR, 1944
Supp., § 1300.2.
After the investigation, the Administrator could hold a
price hearing prior
to issuance of the
regulation, and general notice of the
hearing was to be
Dublished in the
ederal Register.
.d., § 1300.4.

This was not specified by statute.
The Administrator's
Rules of Procedure
made no mention of
the right to cross-"
examine witnesses
during either investigations or preissuance hearings.
32 CFR, 1944 Supp.,
§§ 1300.2, 1300.5.
The Rules merely
provided that hearings were to be conducted "in such
manner, consistent
with the need for
expeditious action,
as will permit the
fullest possible presentation of evidence by such persons as are, in the
judgment of the
Administrator, best
qualified to provide
information with
respect to matters
considered at the
hearing or most
likely to be seriously affected by
action which may
be taken as a result
of the hearing."
Id., § 1300.5.

It should be noted
that even though
the Administrator's
proceedings smacked
of an adjudication,
there was no express
requirement that
either detailed notice
or the right to crossexamine witnesses
be given to parties
affected by the Administrator's actions.

This is not specified
by statute. The Department's Rules of
Practice adopted
pursuant to the Perishable Agricultural
Commodities Act
and the Packers and
Stockyards Act do
not refer to the type

This is not specified
by statute. The Department's Rules of
Practice adopted
pursuant to the Perishable Agricultural
Commodities Act
and the Packers and
Stockyards Act contain no reference to

(1) The Department of
Agriculture, unlike
the Civil Rights Commission, may use the
information obtained
through investigations in its subsequent
adjudicative proceedings under the Perishable Agricultural

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

The Department
of Agriculture--Con.

Scope of ageney's Investigative authority

yards Act of 1921, which, for
the purposes of that Act, givfs
the Secretary the investigative
and other enforcement powers
possessed by the Federal Trade
Commission, 42 Stat 168, 7 U.
S. C. § 222. The Department's
Rules of Practice also provide
that investigations shall be conducted when informal complaints'charging a violation of
the Act are received by the
Secretary. 9 CFR § 202.23.

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's subpoena power In Investigative proceedings

tion of such accounts, records,
and memoranda as
may be material
for the determination of any complaint under" the
Act. 46 Stat. 536,
7 U. S. C. § 499m
2) The Packers
and Stockyards
Act of 1921 gives
to the Secretary
those powers conferred upon the
Federal Trade
Commission by
"sections 46 and
48-50 of Title 15."
Among those powers is the authority to subpoena
witnesses. 42
Stat. 168, 7 U. S.
C. 1 222.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given In Investigative
proceedingsI

of notice, if any,
which must be given
in investigative proceedings,. 7 CFR
§ 47.3; 9 CFR
§ 202.3, although a
specific right to notice
is given in adjudicative proceedings. 7
CFR §§ 47.6, 47.27;
9 CFR §§ 202.6,
202.23, 202.39.

The right, ifany, of persons
affected by an investiga.
don
to crossezamlne
others testifying at Investigative proceedings 4

cross-examination
during investigative
proceedings, 7 CFR
§ 47.3; 9 CFR
§ 202.3, although
such a right is given
in the formal,
adjudicative stage
of the proceedings.
7 CFR § 47.15,
47.32; 9 FR
§§ 202.11, 202.29,
202.48.

Miscellaneous counments

Commodities Act. 7
CFR § 47.7.
(2) It is also of interest. that investigative
proceedings under
both the Perishable
Agricultural Commodities Act and the
Packers and StockyardsAct are commenced by the filing
of complaints from
private individuals.
7 CFR § 47.3; 9 CFR
§ 202.3.
(3) Finally, it should
be noted that the
Department of Agriculture administers
the Federal Seed Act,
53 Stat. 1275, 7 U. S.
C. §§ 1551-1610,
which makes it unlawful to engage in
certain practices relating to the labeling
and importation of
seeds, and a statute
regulating export
standards for apples
and pears 48 Stat.
123,7 U.. C. §§ 581589. The Rules of
Practice adopted b:,
the Secretary pumuant to statutbry authorization provide
that proceedings under these statutes
shall be initiated by
an investigation of.
the charges contained
in any complaint received by the Secretary. These Rulds
make no mention of
the type of notice, if
any, given to those
being investigated-

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

363 U. S.

Scope ofagency's Investigative authority

Extent of agency's subpoena power in investigative proceedings

The Commodity Exchange Act
empowers the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the
Commission) to "make such investigations as he may deem
necessary to ascertain the facts
regarding the operations of
boards of trade, whether prior
or subsequent to the enactment
of" the Act. The Secretary is
also empowered to "investigate
marketing conditions of commodity and commodity products and byproducts, including
supply anddemand for these
commodities, cost to the con.:sumer, and handling and transportation charges." 42 Stat.
1003, as amended, 49 Stat.
1491, 7 U.S.C. § 12.

The Secret-try of.
Agriculture (acting through the
Commission) is
given the same
subpoena powers
as are vested in
the Interstate
Commerce Commission by the
Interstate Commerce Act, 24
Stat. 383, 27
Stat. 443, 32 Stat.
904, 34 Stat. 798,
49 U.S.C. §j 12,
46-48. 42 Stat.
1002, as amended,
49 Stat. 1499,
69 Stat. 160,

The Department
of Agricul-

ture-Con.

Commodity
Exchange
Commission Department
of Agriculture).

7 U.S.C. § 15.
Food and
Drug
Administration
(Department of
health,
Education
and
Welfare).

The Regulations adopted
pursuant to the Federal
Caustic Poison Act, 44 Stat.
1406, 15 U.S.C. §§ 401-411,
authorize the Administration
to conduct investigations, 21
CFR § 285.15, and to hold
preliminary hearings "whenever
it appears . . . that the provisions of section 3 or 6 of the
Caustic Poison Act . . . have
been violated and criminal
Yroceedings are contemplated."
d., § 285.17.

The Act makes
no provision for
compelling
testimony.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The right, If any, of persons

The type of notice required
to be given In investigative
proceedings 3

affected by an investigadon
to cross-examine
others testifying at Investigative proceedings 4

Miscellaneous comments

nor is there any reference to cross-examination during the
investigative stage of
the proceedings. 7
CFR §§ 201.151, 33.17.
This is not specified
b statute. The
Commission has no
special rules for investigations; however, its Rules of
Practice provide that
a private party may
initiate a disciplinary
proceeding by filing
a complaint, and
that an investigation
of the complaint will
be made. No mentionis made of the
type of notice, if
any, which must be
given in investigative proceedings.
17 CFR § 0.53.

This is not specified
by statute. The
Commission has no
special rules for
investigations; however, its Rules of
Practice provide
that a private party
may initiate a disciplinary proceeding
by filing a complaint, and that an
investigation of the
complaint will be
made. No mention
is made of the right
to cross-examine
witnesses during investigative roceedings. 17 CFR
§ 0.53.

It is of interest to
note that investigations may be initiated by complaints
from private parties,
and that the information obtained during
investigations may
be used in a subsequent adjudicative
proceeding. 17'
CFR § 0.53.

This is not specified
by statute. The
Administration's
Regulations make
no reference to
notice of investigative proceedings,
but they do require
that general notice
be given to those
against whom prosecution is contemplated. 21 CFR
§ 285.17.

This is not specified
by statute. The
Administration's
regulations make no
mention of the right
to cross-examine
witnesses appearing
at investigative
proceedings or preliminary hearings.
21 CFR § 285.17.

It should be noted
that the Administration investigates
specific instances of
possible unlawful
activity, and that,
unlike the Civil
Rights Commission,
the Secretary (acting through the
Administration)
is required to refer
possible violations
to the proper United
States Attorney. 44
Stat. 1409, 15
U. S. C. § 409 (b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

Scope of agency's Investigative authority

Presidential
Commissions

(1) The Commission is authorized "to investigate the administration and fiscal and industrial effects of the customs laws
of this country now in force or
which may be hereafter
enacted, the relations between
the rates of duty on raw
materials and finished products,
the effects of ad valorem and
specific duties and of compound specific and ad valorem
duties, all questions relative to
the arrangement of schedules
and classification of articles in
the several schedules of the
customs law, and, in general,
. . . the operation of customs
laws, including their relation
to the Federal revenues, [and]
their effect upon the industries
and labor of the country." 46
Stat. 698, 19 U. S. C. § 1332

United
States
Tariff
Commission.

(a).
(2) The Commission is also
authorized "to investigate the
tariff relations between the
United States and foreign
countries, commercial treaties,
preferential provisions, economic alliances, the effect of
export bounties and preferential
transportation rates, the volume
of importations compared with
domestic production and consumption, and conditions,
causes and effects relating to
competition of foreign industries with those of the United
States, including dumping and
cost of production."
46 Stat.
698, 19 U. S. C. § 1332 (b).
(3) The Commission may
investigate "the Paris Economy
Pact and similar organizations
and arrangements in Europe."
46 Stat. 698, 19 U. S. C. § 1332

(c). T

C

'

e

(4) The Commission isempowered to "investigate the
difference in the costs of pro-

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's sub.
poena power In investigative proceedings

The Commission
may, "for the purposes of carrying
out its functions
and duties in connection with any
investigation authorized by law,
(1) . . . have
access to and the
right to copy any
document, paper,
or record, pertinent to the subject
matter under investigation, in the
possession of any
person, firm, copartnership, corporation, or association engaged in
the production,
importation, or
distribution of any
article under investigation, (2)
. . . summon witnesses, take testimony, and administer oaths, (3)
h , require any
firm, person, copartnership, corporation, or association to produce
books or papers
relating to any
matter pertaining
to such investigation, and (4) . ...
require any person,
firm, copartnership, corporation,
or association, to
furnish in writing,
in such detail and
in such form as the
commission may
prescribe, information in their
possessiop pertain-

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given In Investigative
proceedings 3

Many of the statutory provisions
authorizing the Commission to hold hearings pursuant to its
investigatory power
require that reasonable notice of prospective hearings be
given. .46 Stat. 701,
19 U. S. C. § 1336
(a)65 Stat. 72, 19
U. S.C. §1360 (b) (1);
65 Stat. 74, 19 U. S.
C. § 1364 (a); 49
Stat. 774, 7 U. S. C.
§ 624 (a). The Commission's Rules of
Practice also provide
that public notice of
any pending investigation shall be given.
19 CFR, 1960 Supp.,
§ 201.10.

The right, If any, of persons
affected by an Investiga.
tion to cross-examine
others testifying at investigative proceedingsd

This is not specified
by statute. The
Commission's Rules
permit a party who
has entered an appearance to question
a witness "for the
purpose of assisting
the Commission in
obtaining the material facts with
respect to the subject matter of the
investigation." 19
CFR § 201.14.
However, all questioning is done under
the direction of and
subject to the limitations imposed .by the
Commission, and a
person who has not
entered a formal appearance may not,
as a matter of right,
uestion witnesses.
bid. See also Norwegian Nitrogen
Products Co. v.
United States, 288
U. S. 294.

Miscellaneous comments

(1) Since the Commission's investigative powers are generally exercised to
aid the President in
the execution of his
duties under the
Tariff Act, it is readlyI apparent that the
uommission's investigations may have
far reaching effects
upon those persons
affected by specific
tariff regulations.
(2) It should also be
noted that business
data given to the
Commission may be
classified as confidential, 19 CFR
§ 201.6, and that
confidential material
contained in applications for investigation and complaints will not be
made available for
Yublic inspection.
d., § 201.8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

United
States
Tariff
Commission-Con.

Scope of agency's investigative authority

duction of any domestic article
and of any like or similar
46 Stat. 701,
foreign article."
19 U. S. C. § 1336 (a).
(5) The Commission is authorized to investigate any
complaint alleging that a person
has engaged in unfair methods
of competition or unfair acts in
the importation of articles into
the United States. 46 Stat.
703, 19 U. S. C. § 1337 (a), (b).
(6) Before the President enters
into negotiations concerning any
proposed foreign trade agreement, the Commission is
required to conduct an investigation and make a report to
the President, indicating the
type of agreement which will
best carry out the purpose of
the Tariff Act. 65 Stat. 72,
19 U. S. C. § 1360 (a).
(7) The Commission is authorized to "make an investigation
and make a report thereon
to determine whether any
product upon which a concession has been granted under a
trade agreement is, as a result,
in whole or in part, of the duty
or other customs treatment
reflecting such concessiorl, being
imported into the United-States
in such iftcreased quantities,
either actual or relative, as to
cause or threaten serious injury
to the domestic industry producing like or directly competitive products." 65 Stat. 74, 19
U. S. C. § 1364(a).
(8) The Commission is authorized to investigate the effects
of dumping, and to determine
whether because of such dumping, "an industry in the United
States is being or is likely to be
injured, or is prevented from
42 Stat.
being established."
11, 19 U. S. C. § 160(a).

363 V. S.

Extent of agency's sub.
poena power in investigative proceedings

ing to such investigation." 46 Stat.
699 as amended,
72 gtat. 679, 19
U. S. C. § 1333 (a).

HANNAH v. LARCHE.

475

Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given in investigative
proceedings I

The right, if any, of persons
affected by an investigation to cross-examine
others testifying at investigative proceedings '

Miscellaneous comments

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

Scope of agency's Investigative authority

United
States
Tariff
Commission-Con.

(9) Finally, the Commission is
authorized to conduct investigations for the purpose of determining whether "any article
or articles are being or are
practically certain to be imported into the United States
under such conditions and in
such quantities as to render or
tend to render ineffective, or
materially interfere with, any
program or operation undertaken under" the Agricultural
Adjustment Act or the Soil
Conservation and Domestic
Allotment Act. 49 Stat. 773,
as amended, 62 Stat. 1248, 7
U. S. C. § 624 (a).

Commission To In-

The Commission was authorized
to investigate the attack upon
Pearl Harbor in-order "to provide bases for sound decisions
whether any derelictions of duty
or errors of judgment on the part
of the United States Army or
Navy personnel contributed to
such successes as were achieved
by the enemy on the occasion
mentioned, and if so, what these
derelictions or errors were, and
who were responsible therefor."
Exec. Order No. 8983, 6 Fed.
Reg. 6569.

vestigate
the Japanese Attack on
Hawaii.

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's subpoena power In Investlgative proceedings

The Commission
was authorized "to
issue subpenas
requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses
and the production of any evidence that relates
to any matter
under investigation by the Commission." 55
Stat. 854.

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given In Investigative
proceedings a

Neither the Executive Order creating
the Commission,
Exec. Order No.
8983, 6 Fed. Reg.
6569, nor the joint
resolution conferring
the subpoena power
upon the Commission, 55 Stat. 853, required the Commission to inform prospective witnesses of
complaints lodged
against them.

The right, If any, of persons
affected by an investiga.
don to cross-examine
others testifying at In.
vestigative proceedings'

Neither the Executive Order creating
the Commission,
Exec. Order No.
8983, 6 Fed. Reg.
6569, nor the joint
resolution conferring
the subpoena power
upon the Commission, 55 Stat. 853,
made any mention of
the right to crossexamine witnesses.
An examination of
the Commission's
proceedings does not
disclose instances
wherein any witness.
or party to the investigation was given
the right to crossexamine other witnesses. In fact,
such interested
parties as Admiral
immel and General Short, the Navy
and Army commanders at Pearl
Harbor, were not
even present at the
hearings when other

Miscellaneous comments

It is of special interest
that the Commission
was charged with the
responsibility of determining whether the
successful attack upon
Pearl Harbor resulted
from any individual
derelictions of duty.
Yet, even though the
Commission's investigation had all the
earmarks of an adjudication, none of the
procedural safeguards
demanded by the respondents in these
cases were provided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's subAgency

Scope of agency's Investigative authority

poena power In Investigative proceedings

The Committee was authorized
to investigate "monopoly- and
the concentration of economic
power in and financial control
over production and distribution of goods and services . . .
with a view to:determining . . .
(1) the causes of such concentration and control and their
effect upon competition; (2) the
effect of the existing price
system and the price policies
of industry upon the general level of trade, upon employment, upon long-term profits, and upon consumption, and
(3) the. effect of existing tax,
patent, and other Government
policies upon competition, price
levels, unemployment, profits,
and consumption."
52 Stat.
705.

The Committee
was given the
same subpoena
powers as were
conferred upon the
Securities and Exchange Commission by the Public Utility Holding Company Act,
49 Stat. 831, 15
U. S. C. § 79r(c).
52 Stat. 706.

The Committee was authorized
to conduct an investigation into
charges that William Duane, a
newspaper editor, had published
articles defaming the Senate.
10 Annals of Cong. 117 (1800).

The Committee
was authorized
"to send for persons, papers, and
records, and cornpel the attendance
of witnesses which
may become requisite for the
execution of their
10.
commission."
Annals of Cong..
121 (1800).

Commis-

sion To Investigate
the Japanese Attack on
HawaiiContinued.
Temporary
National
Economic
Cqmmittee.

Congressional
Investigating
Committees 7
Senate
Committee
of Privileges
(1800).

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required

The right, if any, of persons
affected by an investiga-

to be given in investigative
proceedlngs

tion to cross-examine
others testifying at in-

Miscellaneous comments

vestigative proceedings 4

witnesses were testifying. Hearings of
the Joint Congressional Committee on
the Investigation of
the Pearl Harbor
Attack, 79th Cong.,
1st Sess., pts. 22-25.
This was not specified by statute. The
Rules of Procedure
adopted by the Committee for the conduct of its hearings
made no mention of
the type of notice, if
any, which was to be
given to prospective
witnesses. Hearings
of the Temporary
National Economic
Committee, pt. 1.
193.

This was not specifled by statute. The
Rules of Procedure
adopted by the Committee for the conduct of its hearings
did not refer to
cross-examination.
There was merely a
general statement
that "[imn all examination of witnesses,
the rules of evidence
shall be observed
but liberally construed." Hearings
of the Temporary
National Economic
Committee, pt. 1,
193.

This was not specifled by the authorizing resolution.
However, a subsequent resolution
provided that Duane
was to be informed
of the charges
against him when
he presented himself
at the bar of the
Senate. 10 Annals
of Cong. 117 (1800).

This was not speifled by the authorizing resolution,
The Senate later
rejected a motion to
permit Duane "to
have assistance of
counsel for his
defense," but
allowed him to be
heard through
counsel "in denial
of any facts charged
against [him] or in
excuse and extenuation of his offence."
10 Annals of Cong.
118, 119 (1800).

It should be noted
that this Committee
was investigating
the allegedly unlawful conduct of a
specific individual;
yet, it does not appear
that he was given the
right to crossexamine adverse
witnesses.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

Committee
of the
Senate to'
Investihether
Senator
John
Smith of
Ohio
Should
Retain
His Seat
in the
Senate
(1807).

Joint
Committee
on the
Conduct
of the
Civil War
(1861).

Scope of agency's investigative authority

363 U. S.

Extent of agency' subpoena power In InvesUgative proceedings

Senator Smith had been acScused of conspiring with Aaron
Burr to commit treasol, and
the Committee was established
to investigate the charges and
to inquire whether Senator
Smith "should be permitted
any longer to have a seat" in
the Senate. 17 Annals of
Cong. 40 (1807).

The authorizing
resolution did not
indicate whether
the Committee
had the subpoena
-power. 17 Annals
of Cong. 40 (1807).

(1) The Committee was established "to inquire into the conduct of the present [Civil] war."
Cong. Globe, 37th Cong., 2d
Sess. 32, 40 (1861).
(2) The Committee was also
authorized "to inquire into the
truth of the rumored slaughter
of the Union troops, after their
surrender, at the recent attack
of the rebel forces upon Fort
Pillow, Tennessee; as, (sic] also,
whether Fort Pillow courd have
been sufficiently reenforced or
evacuated, and, if so why it
was not done."
13 Stat. 405.

The Committee
had "the power
to send for persons and papers."
.Qong. Globe,
37th Cong., 2d
Sess. 32, 40
(1861).

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given in Investigative
proceedings 3

The right, If any, of persons
affected by an Investigation to cross-examine
others testifying at In.
vestigative proceedlngs '

Miscellaneous comments

This was not specified by the authorizing resolution.
The Committee
furnished Senator
Smith with a description of the
charges and evidence
against him. Report of the Committee, 17 Annals of
Cong. 56 (1807).

This was not specified by the authorizing resolution.
Before the Committee, Senator Smith
"claimed, as a right,
to be heard in his
defense by counsel,
to have compulsory
process'for witnesses,
and to be confronted
with his accusers, as
if the Committee
had been a circuit
court of the United
States." Report of
the Committee, 17
Annals of Cong. 56
(1807). However,
the Committee rejected these claims
on the ground that
it was not a court,
but rather a body
whose function it
was to investigate
and report the facts
relating to Senator
Smith's conduct.
Ibid.

Here again, it should
be observed that the
Committee was investigating the
conduct of a particular individual,
and that the Committee's findings
could have had
severe consequences
on that individual.

This was not specified by the authorizing resolution.
Many of the generals
whose conduct was
being investigated
were given no notice
of the charges that
had been leveled
against them. Botterud, The Joint
Committee on the
Conduct of the Civil
War (M.A. Thesis,
Georgetown University, 1949), 42.

This was not specified by the authorizing resolution.
Many of the generals whose conduct
was being investigated were not given
the right to be assisted by counsel or
to cross-examine
other witnesses.
Botterud, The Joint
Committee on the
Conduct of the*Civil
War. (M.A. Thesis,
Georgetown University, 1949), 42.

It should be noted
that the Committee's
investigation frequently centered on
the allegedly derelict
conduct of specific
individuals. Botterud, The Joint
Committee on the
Conduct of the Civil
War (M.A. Thesis,
Georgetown University, 1949), 42.

550582 0-60-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's sub.

Agency

Scope of agency's investigative authority

House
Committee
to Investigate the
Electric
Boat Coinpany of
New Jersey
(1908).

The Committee was established
to investigate charges that the
Electric Boat Company of New
Jersey had "been engaged in efforts to exert corrupting influence on certain Members of
Congress in their legislative
capacities, and . . . [had], in

fact, exerted such corrupting influence." H. R. Res. 288, 60th
Cong., 1st Sess., 42 Cong. Rec.
2972.

poena power In Investigative proceedings

The Committee
had authority "to
send for persons
and papers."
H. R. Res. 288,
60th Cong., 1st
Sess., 42 Cong.
Ree. 2972.

House
Committee to Investigate
Violations
of the Antitrust
Laws by
the American Sugar
Refining
Co. (1911).

(1) The Committee was authorized to conduct an investigation
"for the purpose of ascertaining
whether or not there have been
violations of the antitrust act of
July 2, 1890, and the various
acts supplementary thereto, by
the American Sugar Refining
Co.," and further, to "investigate the organization and operations of said American Sugar
Refining Co., and its relations
with other persons or corporations engaged in the business of
manufacturing or refining sugar,
and all other persons or corporations engaged in manufacturing
or refining sugar and their relations with each other." H. R.
Res., 157, 62d Cong., 1st Sess.,
47 Cong. Rec. 1143.

The Committee
was authorized "to
compel the attendance of witnesses,
[and] to send for
persons and papers." H. R. Res.
157, 62d Cong.,
1st Sess., 47 Cong.
Rec. 1143.

Senate
Committee
to Investigate Lobbying
(19351936).

The Committee was authorized
"to make a full and complete
investigation of all lobbying
activities and all efforts to influence, encourage, promote, or
retard legislation, directly or indirectly, in connection with the
so-called 'holding-company bill',

The Committee
was authorized
"to require by
subpena or otherwise the attendance of such
witnesses and the
production of such

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The right, If any, of persons

The type of notice required
to be given In Investigative
proceedlngm.'

affected by an investigation to cross-examine
others testifying at Investigative proceedings'

Miscellaneous comments

-This was not specifled by the authorizing resolution.
However, most of
the charges which
led to the investigation were made in
Fublic hearings before the Rules Committee of the House.
H.R. Rep. No. 1168,
60th Cong., 1st
Sess.

The qiuestionkng of
all witnebses was
conducted by the
Committee, although
the parties being
investigated were
permitted to submit
written interrogatories for the Committee to propound
to certain witnesses.
H. R. Rep. No. 1727,
60th Cong., 1st
Sess. 11.

It is of interest that
the Committee was
investigating specific charges of corruption leveled
against named individuals.

This was not specified by the authorizing resolution. Nor
was this specified by
the Committee's
Rules of Procedure.

This was not specified by the authorizing statute. The
Committee's Rules
of Procedure provided that "counsel
may attend witnesses summoned
before this committee, but may not
participate in the
roceeding, either
ny way of examination or argument,
except upon permission given by
the committee, from
time to time, as the
occasion arises."
Hearings before the
Special Committee
*on the Investigation
of the American
Sugar Refining Co.,
62d Cong., 1st Sess.,
Vol. 1, 3.

Once again, it should
be noted that the
Committee was established to investigate, among other
things, possible violations of the law.

This was not specified by the authorizing resolution.

This was not specified by the authorizing resolution.
The Committee
adopted a rule that
witnesses and their
attorneys could not
examine other wit-

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Agency

Scope of agency's investigative authority

Senate
Committee
to Investi-

or any other matter or proposal
affecting legislation." S. Res.
165, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 79

gate Lob-

Cong. Rec. 11003.

bying
(19351936)Con.

363 U. S.

Extent of agency's subpoena power In Investigative rceedings

correspondence,
books, papers, and
documents . . .
as it ... (deemed]
advisable." S.
Res. 165, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess.,
79 Cong. Rec.
11003.

IThis Appendix describes the Rules of 'Procedure governing the
authorized investigative proceedings of a representative group of administrative agencies, executive departments, presidential commissions, and congressional committees. The Appendix does not purport
to be a complete enumeration of the hundreds of agencies which have
conducted investigations during the course of this country's history.
Rather, it is designed to demonstrate that the procedures adopted by
the Civil Rights Commission are similar to those which have traditionally been used by investigating agencies in both the executive and
legislative branches of our Government.
I We have found many other administrative agencies and presidential commissions empowered to conduct investigations and- to subpoena witnesses. Those agencies are not listed in the body of this
Appendix because we were unable to find an adequate description of the
rules of procedure governing their investigative proceedings. However, it is significant that the statutes creating these agencies made no
reference to apprisal or cross-examination in investigative proceedings..
Among the agencies in this category are: (1) Bureau of Corporations in
the Department of Commerce and Labor, 32 Stat. 827; (2) Commission
on Industrial Relations, 37 Stat. 415; (3) the Railroad Labor Board, 41
Stat. 469; (4) the United States Coal Commission, 42 Stat. 1023; (5)
the Investigation Commission established by the Railroad Retirement
Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 972; (6) National Bituminous Coal Commission,
49 Stat. 992; (7) Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor,
52 Stat. 1061; (8) Board of Investigation to Investigate Various Modes
of Transportation, 54 Stat. 952; (9) Commission on Organization of the
Executive Branch of the Government, 67 Stat. 143; (10) Commission
on Intergovernmental Relations, 67 Stat. 145.
3 If the relevant statute makes no reference to notice, this fact will be
mentioned. The negative inference which may be drawn from the
absence of any statutory requirement that notice be given is supported
by the fact that, in a few instances, Congress has made specific provision
for the giving of notice in investigative proceedings. See, e.g., the
statutes cited on p. 473, supra, requiring the United States Tariff Commission to give reasonable notice of any investigative hearing.
If the relevant statute makes no reference to cross-examination,
that fact will be mentioned because of the inference which may be
drawn therefrom that Congress did not intend persons appearing at
investigative hearings to cross-examine other witnesses. This inference

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

485

Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

The type of notice required
to be given In Investigative
proceedings

The right, If any, of persons
affected by an Investigation to cross-examine
others testifying at investigative iroceedings'

Mlacellaneous comments

nesses; however,
they could submit
written questions,
which the Committee would consider
propounding to
other witnesses.
Hearings before
Special Senate Committee to Investigate Lobbying
Activities,
74th
Cong., 2d Bess. 1469.
is strengthened by the fact that in a relatively few instances Congress
has, f6r one reason or another, required that persons being investigated
by a commission or agency be given the right to cross-examine other
witnesses. See, e.g., 49 Stat. 1381, which authorized the Secretary
of- Commerce to appoint special boards to investigate the causes of
marine casualties.
5 The Office of Price Stabilization is now defunct, having been
terminated by Exec. Order No. 10434, 18 Fed. Reg. 809.
6The Office of Price Administration is now defunct, its functions
having been transferred to the Office of Temporary Controls by Exec.
Order No. 9809, 11 Fed. Reg. 14281, which in turn was terminated by
Exec. Order No. 9841, 12 Fed. Reg. 2645.
7 In addition to the investigating committees listed in the body of
the Appendix, we think mention should also be made of the contemorary standing committees of Congress. Most of these committees
ave rules very similar to those adopted by the Civil Rights Commission. The Rules of Procedure of the Subcommittee on Privileges
and Elections of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration
are typical. Rule 17 of the Rules reads as follows:
"There shall be no direct or cross examination by counsel appearing
for a witness: However, the counsel may submit in writing any question or questions he wishes propounded to his client or to any other
witness. With the consent of the majority of the Members of the Subcommittee present and voting, such question or questions shall be put
to the witness by the Chairman, by a Member of the Subcommittee
or by the Counsel of the Subcommittee either in the original form or in
modified language. The decision of the Subcommittee as to the admissibility of questions submitted by counsel for a witness, as well as
to their form, shall be final."
See also S. Rep. No. 2, 84th C.ng., 1st Sess. 20; Hearings before the
Subcommittee on Rules of the Senate Committee on Rules and
Administration, on S. Res. 65, 146, 223, 249, 253, 256, S. Con. Res. 11,
and 86, 83d Cong., 2d Sess., Part 3, 141-142, 344, 345, 374; Rules of
Procedure of the Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor
or Management Field, Rules 10 and 11. Reference has been made in
the text, supra, pp. 436-439, to the House "fair play" rules, which
govern the hearings of most House Committees, and which make no
provision for cross-examination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

363 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring in the result.

The United States Commission on Civil Rights, in
exercising powers granted to it by the Civil Rights Act
of 1957 (71 Stat. 635, 42 U. S. C. § 1975c), scheduled a
hearing to .be held by it in Shreveport, Louisiana, on
July 13, 1959. By these two actions judgments were
sought to declare the proposed hearing illegal and to
restrain the members of the Commission from holding it.
The rules of procedure formulated by the Commission
amply rest on leave of Congress. I need add nothing
on this phase of the case to the Coir;'s opinion. While
it is a most salutary doctrine of constitutional adjudication to give a statute even a strained construction to
avoid facing a serious doubt of constitutionality, "avoidance of a difficulty will not be pressed to the point of disingenuous evasion. Here the intention of the Congress is
revealed too distinctly to permit us to ignore it because of
mere misgivings as to power. The problem must be faced
and answered." Moore Ice Cream Co. v. Rose, 289 U. S.
373, 379. I have no such misgivings in the situation
before us. I also agree with the Court's conclusion
in rejecting the constitutional claims of the plaintiffs.
In view, however, of divergencies between the Court's
analysis and mine of the specific issues before us, including the authoritative relevance of In re Groban, 352 U. S.
330, and Anonymous No. 6 v. Baker, 360 U. S. 287, I state
my reasons for agreement.
To conduct the Shreveport hearing on the basis of
sworn allegations of wrongdoing by the plaintiffs, without submitting to them these allegationg and disclosing
the identities of the affiants, would, it is claimed, violate
the Constitution. The issue thus raised turns exclusively
on the application of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment. The Commission's hearings are not proceedings requiring a person to answer for an "infamous
crime," which must be based on an indictment of a grand

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

jury (Amendment V), nor are they "criminal prosecutions" giving an accused the rights defined by Amendment VI. Since due process is the constitutional axis on
which decision must turn, our concern is not with absolutes, either of governmental power or of safeguards
protecting individuals. Inquiry must be directed to the
validity of the adjustment between these clashing interests-that of Government and of the individual, respectively-in the procedural scheme devised by the Congress
and the Commission. Whether the scheme satisfies those
strivings for justice which due process guarantees, must
be judged in the light of reason drawn from the considerations of fairness that reflect our traditions of legal and
political thought, duly related to the public interest Congress sought to meet by this legislation as against the
hazards or hardship to the individual'that the Commission
procedure would entail.
Barring rare lapses, this Court has not unduly confined
those who have the responsibility of governing within a
doctrinaire conception of "due process." The Court has
been mindful of the manifold variety and perplexity of the
tasks which the Constitution has vested in the legislative
and executive branches of the Government by recognizing
that what is unfair in one situation may be fair in another.
Compare, for instance, Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land
& Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, with Ng Fung Ho v.
White, 259 U. S. 276, and see Communications Comm'n
v. WJR, 337 U. S. 265, 275. Whether the procedure now
questioned offends "the rudiments of fair play," Chicago,
M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Polt, 232 U. S. 165, 168, is not to
be tested by loose generalities or sentiments abstractly
appealing. The precise nature of the interest alleged to
be adversely affected or of the freedom of action claimed
to be curtailed, the manner in which this is to be done and
the reasons for doing it, the balance of individual hurt and
the justifying public good-these and such like are the

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

363 U. S.

considerations, avowed or implicit, that determine the
judicial judgment when appeal is made to "due process."
The proposed Shreveport hearing creates risks of harm
to the plaintiffs. It is likewise true that, were the plaintiffs afforded the procedural rights they seek, they would
have a greater opportunity to reduce these risks than
will be theirs under the questioned rules of the Commission. Some charges touching the plaintiffs might
be withdrawn or modified, if those making them knew
that their identities and the content of their charges were
to be revealed. By the safeguards they seek the plaintiffs
might use the hearing as a forum for subjecting the
charges against them to a scrutiny that might disprove
them or, at least, establish that they are not incompatible
with innocent conduct.
Were the Commission exercising an accusatory function, were its duty to find that named individuals were
responsible for wrongful deprivation of voting- rights
and to advertise such finding or to serve as part of
the process of criminal prosecution, the rigorous protections relevant to criminal prosecutions might well be
the controlling starting point for assessing the protection
which the Commission's procedure provides. The objectives of the Commission on Civil Rights, the purpose
of its creation, and its true functioning are quite otherwise. It is not charged with official judgment oD individuals nor are its inquiries so directed. The purpose
of its investigations is to develop facts upon which legislation may be based. As such, its investigations are
directed to those concerns that are the normal impulse
to legislation and the basis for it. To impose upon the
Commission's investigations the safeguards appropriate
to inquiries into individual blameworthiness would be to
divert and frustrate its purpose. Its investigation would
be turned into a forum for the litigation of individual
culpability-matters which are not within the keeping

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

of the Commission, with which it is not effectively
equipped to deal, and which would deflect it from the purpose for which it was within its limited life established.
We would be shutting our eyes to actualities to be
unmindful of the fact that it would dissuade sources of
vitally relevant information from making that information known to the Commission, if the Commission were
required to reveal its sources and subject them to crossexamination. This would not be a valid consideration
for secrecy were the Commission charged with passing
official incriminatory or even defamatory judgment on
individuals. Since the Commission is merely an investigatorial arm of Congress, the narrow risk of unintended
harm to the individual is outweighed by the legislative
justification for permitting the Commission to be the critic
and protector of the information given it. It would be
wrong not to assume that the Commission will responsibly
scrutinize the reliability of sworn allegations that are to
serve as the basis for further investigation and that it will
be rigorously vigilant to protect the fair name of those
brought into question..
In appraising the constitutionally permissive investigative procedure claimed to subject individuals to incrimination or defamation without adequate opportunity for
defense, a relevant distinction is between those proceedings which are preliminaries to official judgments on
individuals and those, like the investigation of this Commission, charged with responsibility to gather information
as a solid foundation for legislative action. Judgments
by the Commission condemning or stigmatizing individuals are not called for. When official pronouncements
on individuals purport to rest on evidence and investigation, it is right to demand that those so accused be given
a full opportunity for their defense in such investigation,
excepting, of course, grand jury investigations. The
functions of that institution and its constitutional prerog-

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

363 U. S.

atives are rooted in long centuries of Anglo-American
history. On the other hand, to require the introduc-

tion of adversary contests relevant to determination of
individual guilt into what is in effect a legislative investigation is bound to thwart it by turning it into a serious
digression from its purpose.
The cases in which this Court has recently considered
claims to procedural rights in investigative inquiries
alleged to deal unfairly with the reputation of individuals
or to incriminate them, have made clear that the fairness
of their procedures is to be judged in light of the purpose
of the inquiry, and, more particularly, whether its essential objective is official judgment on individuals under
scrutiny. Such a case was Greene v. McElroy, 360 U. S.
474. There the inquiry was for the purpose of determining whether the security clearance of a particular person
was to be revoked. A denial of clearance would shut him
off
from the opportunity of access to a wide field of
. mployment.
The Court concluded that serious constitutional questions were raised by denial of the rights to
confront accusatory witnesses and to have access to
unfavorable reports on the basis of which the very
livelihood of an individual would be gravely jeopardized. Again, Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee v.
McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, presented a contrasting situation to the one before us. The Government there sought
through the Attorney General to designate organizations
as "Communist," thus furnishing grounds on which to

discharge their members from government employment.
No notice was given of the charges against the organizations nor were they given an opportunity to establish
the innocence of their aims and acts. It was well within
the realities to say of what was under scrutiny in Joint
Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee v. McGrath that "It
would be blindness . . .not to recognize that in the con-

ditions of our time such designation drastically restricts

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

FRANKFURTER,

491

J., concurring in result.

the organizations, if it does not proscribe them." 341
U. S., at 161 (concurring opinion). And the procedure
which was found constitutionally wanting in that case
could be fairly characterized as action "to maim or decapitate, on the mere say-so of the Attorney General, an
organization to all outward-seeming engaged in lawful
objectives . . ." Ibid. Nothing like such characterization can remotely be made regarding the procedure for
the proposed inquiry of the Commission on Civil Rights.
Contrariwise, decisions arising under the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment strongly support
the constitutionality of what is here challenged, where the
purposes were as here truly investigatorial. Thus, In re
G@roban, 352 U. S. 330, sustained inquiry by the Ohio
State Fire Marshal into the causes of a fire while excluding counsel of subpoenaed witnesses on whose premises
the fire occurred. The Court so held even though the
Fire Marshal had authority, after questioning a witness,
to arrest him if he believed there was sufficient evidence
to charge him with arson. The guiding consideration
was that, although suspects might be discovered, the
essential purpose of the Fire Marshal's inquiry was not
to adjudicate individual responsibility for the fire but
to pursue a legislative policy of fire prevention through
the discovery of the origins of fires. This decision was
applied in Anonymous No. 6 v. Baker, 360 U. S. 287,
which concerned "a state judicial Inquiry into alleged
improper practices at the local bar" (at p. 288). Rejecting the claim based on the consideration that the inquiry
might serve as a groundwork for the prosecution of witnesses called before it, the Court applied Groban because
the inquiry was a genbral one and appellants were before
it not as potential accused hut "sriely as witnesses." The
proposed investigation of the Commission on Civil Rights
is much less likely to result in prosecution of witnesses
before it than were the investigations in Groban and

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring in result.

363 U. S.

Baker. Just as surely, there is not present in the cases

now before us a drastic official judgment, as in Greene
and Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, where the

Court deemed it necessary to insure that full opportunity
for defense be accorded to individuals who were the
sp9cific, adverse targets of the secret process.
Moreover, the limited, investigatorial scope of the challenged hearing is carefully hedged in with protections for
the plaintiffs. They will have the right to be accompanied
by counsel. The rules insure that they will be made aware
of the subject of the hearings. They will'have the right
to appeal to the Corhmission's power to subpoena
additional witnesses. The rules significantly direct the
Commission to abstain from public exposure by taking in
executive session any evidence or testimony tending "to
defame, degrade, or incriminate any person." A person
so affected is given the right to read such evidence and
to reply to it. These detailed provisions are obviously
designed as safeguards against injury to persons who
appear in public hearings before the Commission. The
provision for screening defamatory and incriminatory testimony in order to keep it from the public may well be
contrasted with the procedure in the Joint Anti-Fascist
case, where the very purpose of the inquiry was to make an
official judgment that certain organizations were "Communist." Such condemnation of an organization would
of course taint its members. The rules of the Commission manifest a sense of its responsibility in carrying out
the limited investigatorial task confided to it. It is not
a constitutional requirement that the Commission be
argumentatively turned into a forum for trial of the truth
of particular allegations of denial of voting rights in order
thereby to invalidate its functioning. Such an inadmissible transformation of the Commission's function is
in essence what is involved in the claims of the plaintiffs.
Congress has entrusted the Commission with a very dif-

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

ferent role-that of investigating and appraising general
conditions and reporting them to Congress so as to inform
the legislative judgment. Resort to a legislative commission as a vehicle for proposing well-founded legislation and recommending its passage to Congress has ample
precedent.
Finally it should be noted that arguments directed
either at the assumed novelty of employing the Commission in the area of legislative interest which led Congress
to its establishment, or at the fact that the source of the
Commission's procedures were those long used by Committees of Congress, are not particularly relevant. History may satisfy constitutionality, but constitutionality
need not produce the title deeds of history. Mere age may
establish due process, but due process does not preclude
new ends of government or new means for achieving them.
Since the Commission has, within its legislative framework, provided procedural safeguards appropriate to its
proper function, claims of unfairness offending due process
fall. The proposed Shreveport hearing fully comports
with the Constitution and the law. Accordingly I join the
judgment of the Court in reversing the District Court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, whom MR. JUSTICE CLARK joins,
concurring.
In joining the Court's opinion, as I do, I desire to add
that in my view the principles established by In re
Groban, 352 U. S. 330, and Anonymous v. Baker, 360
U. S. 287, are dispositive of the issues herein in the
Commission's favor.

MR

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

with whom

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
With great deference to my Brethren I dissent from
a reversal of these judgments.
The cause which the majority opinion serves is, on the
surface, one which a person dedicated to constitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

principles could not question. At the bottom of this controversy is the right to vote protected by the Fifteenth
Amendment. That Amendment withholds power from
either the States or the United Siates to deny or abridge
the right to vote "on account of race, color, or previous
condition of servitude." This right stands beyond the
reach of government. Only voting qualifications that
conform to the standards proscribed by the Fifteenth
Amendment'may be prescribed. See Lassiter v. Northampton Election Board, 360 U. S.45. As stated in Terry
v. Adams, 345 U. S.461, 468, "The Amendment, the congressional enactment and the cases make explicit the rule
against racial discrimination in the conduct of elections."
By democratic values this right is fundamental, for the
very existence of government dedicated to the concept
"of the people, by the people, for the people," to use Lincoln's words, depends on the franchise.
Yet important as these civil rights are, it will not do
to sacrifice other civil rights in order to protect them.
We live and work under a Constitution. The temptation
of many men of goodwill is to cut corners, take short
cuts, and reach the desired end regardless of the means.
Worthy as I think the ends are which the Civil Rights
Commission advances in these cases, I think the particular
means used are unconstitutional.
The Commission, created by Congress, is a part of "the
executive branch" of the Government, 71 Stat. 634, 42
U. S. C. § 1975 (a), whose members are appointed by the
President and confirmed by the Senate. § 1975 (a). It is
given broad powers of investigation with the view of mak-'
ing a report with "findings and recommendations" to
the Congress. § 1975c. It is empowered, among other
things, to
"investigate allegations in writing under oath or
affirmation that certain citizens of the United States

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

are being deprived of their right to vote and have
that vote counted by reason of their color, race,
religion, or national origin; which writing, under oath
or affirmation, shall set forth the facts upon which
such belief or beliefs are based." § 1975c (a)(1).
Complaints have been filed with the Commission
charging respondents, who are registrars of voters in
Louisiana, with depriving persons of their voting rights by
reason of their color. If these charges are true and if the
registrars acted willfully (see Screws v. United States, 325
U. S. 91), the registrars are criminally responsible under
a federal statute which subjects to fine and imprisonment1
anyone who willfully deprives a citizen of any right under
the Constitution "by reason of his color, or race." 2 18
U. S. C. § 242.
The investigation and hearing by the Commission are
therefore necessarily aimed at determining if this criminal
law has been violated. The serious and incriminating
nature of the charge and the disclosure of facts concerning
it are recognized by the Congress, for the Act requires
certain protective procedures to be adopted where defamatory, degrading, or. incriminating evidence may be
adduced.
"If the Commission determines that evidence or testimony at any hearing may tend to defame, degrade,
or incriminate any person, it shall (1) receive such
evidence or testimony in executive session; (2) afford
1 Civil

suits for damages are also authorized.

See 42 U. S. C.

§ 1983; Lane v. Wilson, 307 U. S. 268.

The section reads in relevant part as follows:
"Whoever, under color of any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, or

2

custom, willfully subjects any inhabitant of any State .

.

. to the

deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured or protected by the Constitution or laws of the United States . . . by
reason of his color, or race ... shall be fined not more than

$1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both."

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

such person an opportunity voluntarily to appear as
a witness; and (3) receive and dispose of requests
from such person to subpena additional witnesses."
42 U. S. C. § 1975a (e).
Yet these safeguards, given as a matter of grace, do not
in my judgment dispose of the constitutional difficulty.
First, it is the Commission's judgment, not the suspect's,
that determines whether the hearing shall be secret or
public. Thus this procedure has one of the evils protested against in In re Groban, 352 U. S. 330, 337,
348-353 (dissenting opinion). The secrecy of the inquisition only underlines its inherent vices: "Secret inquisitions
are dangerous things justly feared by free men everywhere. They are the breeding place for arbitrary misuse
of official power. They are often the beginning of tyranny
as well as indispensable instruments for its survival.
Modern as well as ancient history bears witness that both
innocent and guilty have been seized by officers of the
state and whisked away for secret interrogation or worse
until the' groundwork has been securely laid for their
inevitable conviction." Id., at 352-353. As said in
dissent in Anonymous v. Baker, 360 U. S. 287, 299,
"secretly compelled testimony does not lose its highly
dangerous potentialities merely because" it is taken in
preliminary proceedings. Second, the procedure seems
to me patently unconstitutional whether the hearing is
public or secret. Under the Commission's rules the
accused is deprived of the right to notice of the charges
against him and the opportunity of cross-examination.
This statutory provision, fashioned to protect witnesses
as such rather than a prospective defendant, permits the
Commission to exclude the accused entirely from the hearing and deny him the opportunity even to observe the
testimony of his accusers. And even if the Commission
were inclined in a particular case to protect the accused
from the opprobrium likely to flow from the testimony of

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

individual witnesses against him by holding secret sessions, this would be little comfort after the Commission's
findings, based on such untested evidence, were publicized
across the Nation.
I assume that no court would be justified in enjoining
a Congressional Committee composed of Senators or Congressmen that engaged in this kind of conduct. This is
-not that kind of a committee. Moreover, even if it were
and if private rights were infringed .by reason of the
Committee's violations of the Constitution, there are
circumstances when redress can be had in the courts.
Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S.168. Cf. Greenfield v.
Russel, 292 Ill. 392, 127 N. E. 102; Opinion of the Justices,
96 N. H. 530, 73 A. 2d 433. The judiciary also becomes
implicated when the Congress asks the courts to back up
what its Committees have done; or when a victim of an
'investigation asks relief from punishment imposed on him.
Then the procedural safeguards of the Bill of Rights come
into full play. See Watkins v. United States, 354 U. S.
178.
The Civil Rights Commission, however, is not a Congressional Committee of Senators or Congressmen; nor is
it arxi§arm of Congress. It is an arm of the Executive.
There is, in my view, only one way the Chief Executive
may move against a person accused of a crime and deny
him the right of confrontation and cross-examination and
that is by the grand jury.
The grand jury is the accusatory body in federal law
as provided by the Fifth Amendment. The essence of
the institution of the grand jury was stated by 1 Stephen,
History of Criminal Law of England, 252: "The body of
the country are the accusers." Thomas Erskine stated
the matter accurately and eloquently in Jones v. Shipley,
21.How. St. Tr. 847, 977.
"[lit is unnecessary to remind your lordships, that,
in a civil case, the party who conceives himself
550582 0-60-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS,

J,, dissenting.

363 U. S.

aggrieved, states his complaint to the court,-avails
himself at his own pleasure of its process,-compels
an answer from the defendant by its authority,--or
taking the charge pro confesso against him on his
default, is entitled to final judgment and execution
for his debt, without any interposition of a jury.
But in criminal cases it is otherwise; the court has
no cognizance of them, without leave from the people forming a grand inquest. If a man were to
commit a capital offence in the face of all the judges
of England, their united authority could not put him
upon his trial:-they could file no complaint against
him, even upon the records of the supreme criminal
court, but could only commit him for safe custody,
which is equally competent to every common justice
of the peace:-the grand jury alone could arraign
him, and in. their discretion might likewise finally
discharge him, by throwing out the bill, with the
names of all your lordships as witnesses on the back
of it. If it shall be said, that this exclusive power
of the grand jury does not extend to lesser misdemeanors, which may be prosecuted by information;
I answer, that for that very reason it becomes doubly
necessary to preserve the power of the other jury
which is left."
This idea, though uttered in 1783, is modern and relevant here.' The grand jury brings suspects before neighbors, not strangers. Just recently in Stirone v. United
States, 361 U. S. 212, 218, we said, "The very purpose of
the requirement that a man be indicted-by grand jury
is to limit his jeopardy to offenses charged by a group of
his fellow citizens acting independently of either prosecuting attorney or judge."
This Commission has no such guarantee of fairness.
Its members are not drawn from the neighborhood. The

HANNAH v. "LARCHE.
420

DOUGLAS,

J.,* dissenting.

members cannotbe as independent as grand juries because
they meet not for one occasion only; they do a continuing
job for the executive and, if history is a guide, tend to
acquire a vested interest in that role.
The grand jury, adopted as a safeguard against "hasty,
malicious, and oppressive" action by the Federal Government, Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1, 12, stands as an important safegiard to the citizen against open and public
accusations of crime. Today the grand jury may act on
its own volition, though originally specific charges by
private prosecutors were the basis of its action. Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 59-60. It has broad investigational
powers to look-into what may be offensive against federal
criminal law. United States v. Johnson, 319 U. S. 503,
510. An indictment returned by a grand jury may not
be challenged because it rests wholly on hearsay. Costello v. United States, 350 U. S. 359, 361-362. An
accused is not entitled to a hearing before a grand jutry,
nor to present evidence, nor to be represented by counsel;
and a grand jury may act secretly-a procedure normally
abhorrent to due process. In this country as in England
of old, the grand jury is convened as a body of laymen,
free from technical rules, acting in secret, pledged to
.indict no one because of prejudice and to free no one
because of special favor. Costello v. United States,.
supra, at 362.
Grand juries have their defects. . They do not always
return a true bill, for while the prejudices of the community may radiate through them, they also have the saving quality of being familiar with the people involved.
They are the only accusatory body in the Federal Government that is recognized by the Constitution. I would
allow no other engine of government, either executive or
legislative, to take their place-at least when the right
of confrontation and cross-examination are denied the
accused as is done in these cases;

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

The might and power of the Federal Government have
no equal. When its guns are leveled at a citizen on
charges that he committed a federal crime, it is for me
no answer to say that the only purpose is to report his
activities to the President and Congress, not to turn
him over to the District Attorney for prosecution. Our
Constitution was drawn on the theory that there are
certain things government may not do to the citizen and
that there are other things that may be done only in a
specific manner. The relationship of the Federal Government to a man charged with crime is carefully defined.
Its power may be marshalled against him, but only in a
defined way. When we allow this substitute method, we
make an innovation that does not comport with that due
process which the Fifth Amendment requires of the Federal Government.. When the Federal Government prepares to inquire into charges that a person has violated
federal law, the Fifth Amendment tells us how it can
proceed.
The Civil Rights Commission, it is true, returns no
indictment. Yet in a real sense the hearings on charges
that a registrar has committed a federal offense are a
trial. Moreover, these hearings before the Commission.
may be televised or broadcast on the radio.8 In our day
we have. seen Congressional Committees probing into
alleged criminal conduct of witnesses appearing on the
television screen. This is in reality a trial in which the
8

The Rules of the-Commission by Subdivision (k) provide:
"Subject to the physical limitations of the hearing room and consideratibn of the physical comfort of Commission members, staff, and
witnesses, equal and reasonable access for coverage of the hearings
shall be provided to the various means of communications, including
newspapers, magazines, radio, news reels, and television. However,
no witness shall be televised, filmed or photographed during the hearings if he objects on the ground of distraction, harassment, or physical
handicap."

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

whole Nation sits as a jury. Their verdict does not send
men to prison. But it often condemns men or produces
evidence to convict and even saturates the Nation with
prejudice against an accused so that a fair trial may be
impossible. As stated in 37 A. B. A. J. 392 (1951), "If
several million television viewers see and hear a politician, a businessman or a movie actor subjected to searching interrogation, without ever having an opportunity to
cross-examine his accusers or offer evidence in his-own
support, that man will stand convicted, or at least
seriously compromised, in the public mind, whatever the
later formal findings may be." The use of this procedure
puts in jeopardy our traditional concept of the way men.
should be tried and replaces it with "a new concept of
guilt based on inquisitorial devices." Note, 26 Temp.
L. Q. 70, 73.
Yet whether the hearing is televised or not it will have
all the evils of a legislative trial. "The legislative trial,"
wrote Alan Barth in Government by Investigation (1955)
p. 81, "'is a -device for condemning men without the
formalities of due process." And he went on to say:
"The legislative trial serves three distinct though
related purposes: (1) it can be used to punish conduct -which is not criminal; (2) it can be used to
punish supposedly criminal conduct in the absence of
evidence requisite to conviction in a court of law;.
and (3) it can be used to drive or trap persons suspected of 'disloyalty' into committing some collateral
crime such as perjury or contempt of Congress, which
can then be subjected to punishment through a judicial proceeding. 'It is hard to get them for their
criminal activities in connection with espionage, but
a way has been found,' Senator McCarthy once
remarked. 'We are getting them for perjury and
putting some of the worst of them away. For that

. OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

reason I hope every witness who comes here is put
under oath and his testimony is gone over with a finetooth comb, and if we cannot convict some of them
for their disloyal activities, perhaps we can convict
some of them for perjury.' That they may have
been guilty of no violation of law in the first place
seems of no concern to the Senator." Id., at 83.
And see Telford Taylor, Grand Inquest (1955).
Barth wrote of hearings in the so-called lqyalty cases.
But the reasons apply to any hearing where a person's
job or liberty or reputation is at stake. Barth wrote of
hearings held by Congressional Committees. Yet the evil
is compounded where the "legislative trial" has become a
"Commission trial." And while I assume that a court-.
would not enjoin the typical Congressional Committee,
it is duty bound to keep commissions within limits, when
its jurisdiction is properly invoked.
The right to know- the claims asserted against one and
to contest them-to be heard-to conduct a cross-examination-these are all implicit in our concept of "a full
and fair hearing" before any administrative agency, as
the Court in Morgan v. United States, 304 U. S. 1, 18,
emphasized. We spoke there in the context of civil litigation where property was at stake. Here the need for
all the protective devices of a fair hearing is greater. For
one's job and perhaps his'liberty are hinged on these
hearings.
We spoke in the tradition of the Morgan case only
recently in Greene v. McElroy, 360 U. S. 474, 496-497.
"Certain principles have remained relatively immutable in our jurisprudence. One of these is that
where governmental action seriously injures an individual, and the reasonablenessof the action depends
on fact findings, the evidence used to prove the Government's case must be disclosed to the individual so

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

that he has an opportunity to show that it is untrue.
While this is important in the case of documentary
evidence, it "is
-even more important where the evidence consists of the testimony of individuals whose
memory might be faulty or who, in fact, might be
perjurers or persons motivated by malice, vindictiveness, intolerance, prejudice, or jealousy. We have
formalized these protections in the requirements of
confrontation and cross-examination. They have
ancient roots. They find expression in the Sixth
Amendment which provides that in all criminal cases
the accused shall enjoy the right 'to be confronted
with the witnesses against him.' This Court has
been zealous to protect these rights from erosion. It
has spoken out not only in criminal cases, . . . but
also in all types of cases where administrative and
regulatory actions Were under scrutiny." (Italics
added.)
We spoke there in a context where men were being
deprived of their jobs as a result of investigations into
their loyalty. 'Certainly no less is required if hearings
are to. be held on charges that a person has violated a
federal law.
Respondents ask no more than the right to know the.
charges, to be confronted with the accuser, and to crossexamine him. Absent these rights, they ask for an
injunction. In the Greene case we said these rights were
available "where governmental action seriously injures an
individual." 360 U' S., at 496. Injury is plain and
obvious here-injury of a nature far more serious than
merely losing one's job, as was the situation in the Greene
case. If the hearings are. to be without the safeguards
which due process requires of all trials-:-civil and criminal-there is only one way I know by which the Federal
Government may proceed and that is by grand jury. - If
these trials before the Commission are to be held on

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUQLAS, J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

charges that these respondents are criminals, the least we
can do is to allow them to know what they are being tried
for, and to confront their accusers and to cross-examine
them.' This protection would be extended to them in any
preliminary hearing, even in one before a United States
Commissioner.5 Confrontation and cross-examination are
so basic to our concept of due process (Peters v. Hobby,
349 U. S. 331, 351-352 (concurring opinion)) that no
proceeding by an administrative agency is a fair one that
denies these rights.
References are made to federal statutes governing
numerous administrative agencies such as the, Federal
Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the inference is that what is done in this
case can be done there. This comes as a surprise to one
who for some years was efigaged in those administrative
investigations. No effort was ever made, so far as I am
aware, to compel a person, charged with violating a federal
law, to run the gantlet of a hearing over his objectiol.
'Cf. Frankfurter, Hands Off the Investigations, New Republic,May 21, 1924, p. 329, at 331: "It must be remembered that our rules
of evidence are but tools for ascertaining the truth, and that these
tools vary with the nature of the issues and the nature of the tribunal
seeking facts. Specifically, the system of rules of evidence used in
trials before juries 'are mainly aimed at guarding the jury from the
over-weening effect of certain kinds of evidence.' That system, as
pointed 'out by Wigmore, 'is not applicable by historical precedent,
or by sound practical policy' to 'inquiries of fact determinable by
administrative tribunals.' Still less is it applicable to inquiries by
congressional committees' Of course the essential decencies must be
observed, namely opportunity for cross-examination must be afforded
to those who are investigated or to those representing issues under
investigation."
5
Rule 5 (b), Rules of Criminal Procedure, provides that the defendant shall be informed of the complaint against him and of his
right to retain counsel. Rule 5 (c) expressly states, "The defendant
may cross-examine witnesses against him and may introduce evidence
in his own behalf."

HANNAH v- LARCHE.
420

Douoihs, J., dissenting.

No objection based either on the ground now advanced
nor on the Fifth Amendment was, so far as I know,
ever overruled. Investigations were made; and they
were searching. Such evidence of law violations as was
obtained, was turned over to the Department of Justice.
But never before, I believe, has a federal executive agency
attempted, over the objections of an accused, to force him
through a hearing to determine whether he has v'iolated a
federal law. If it did, the action was lawless and courts
should have granted relief.
What we do today is to allow under the head of due
process a fragmentation of proceedings against accused
people that seems to me to be foreign to our system. No
indictment is returned, no commitment to jail is made,
no formal criminal charges are made. Hence the procedure is condoned as violating no constitutional guarantee.
Yet what is done is another short cut used more and more
these days to "try" men in ways not envisaged by the
Constitution. The result is as damaging as summoning
before committees men who it is known will invoke the
Fifth Amendment and pillorying them for asserting their
constitutional rights. This case-like the others--is a
device to expose people as suspects or criminals. The
concept of due process which permits the invention and
use of prosecutorial devices not included in the Constitution makes due process reflect the subjective or qven
whimsical notions of a majority of this Court as from
time to time constituted. Due process under the pr6
vailing doctrine is what the judges say it is; and it differs.
from judge to judge, from court to court. This notion of
due process makes it a tool of the activists who respond
to their own visceral reactions in deciding what is fait,
decent, or reasonable. This elastic concept of due process
is described in the concurring opinion as-follows:
"Whether the scheme satisfies those strivings for justice which due process guarantees, must be judged in

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

the light of reason drawn from the considerations of
fairness that reflect our traditions of legal and political thought, duly related to the public interest Congress sought to meet by this legislation as against
the hazards or hardship to the individual that the
Commission procedure would entail."
When we turn to the cases, personal preference, not
reason, seems, however, to be controlling.
Illustrative are the First Amendment protection given
to the activities of a classroom teacher by the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment in Sweezy. v. New
Hampshire,354 U. S. 234, 255, 261-263 (concurring opinion), but denied to the leader of an organization holding
discussion groups at a summer camp in Uphaus v. Wyman,
360 U. S. 72; the decisions that due process was violated
by the use of evidence obtained by the forceful use of a
stomach pump in Rochin v. California,342 U. S. 165, but
not when evidence was used which was obtained by taking
the blood, of an unconscious prisoner. Breithaupt v.
Abram, 352 U. S. 432.
It is said in defense of -this chameleon-like due process
that it is not "an exercise of whim or will," that it is
"founded on something much deeper and more justifiable:
than personal preference. As far as it .lies within human
limitations, it must be an impersonal judgment. It must
rest on fundamental presuppositions rooted in history to
which widespread acceptance may fairly be attributed'"
Sweezy v. New Hampshire, supra, at 267 (concurring
opinion). Yet one who tries to rationalize- the cases on
cold logic or reason fails. The answer turns on the personal predilections of the judge; and the louder the denial.
the more evident it is that emotion rather than reason
dictates the answer. This is a serious price to pay for
adopting a free-wheeling concept -of due process, rather
than confining it to the procedures and devices ..enu-

HANNAH v. LARCHE.
420

DoUGLAS,

507

J., dissenting.

merated in the Constitution itself. As said in Adamson
v. California,332 U. S. 46, 68, 89 (dissenting opinion):
"In my judgment the people of no nation can
lose their liberty so long as a Bill -of Rights like
ours survives and its basic purposes are conscientiously interpreted, enforced and respected so as to
afford continuous protection against old, as well as
new, devices and practices which might thwart those
purposes. I fear to see the consequences of the
Court's practice of substituting its own concepts of'
decency and fundamental justice for the language
of the Bill of Rights as. its- point of departure in
interpreting and enforcing that Bill of Rights."
That -was wrttt n coicerning the meaning of the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. But it
has equal vitality. when applied. to the Due Process
Clause of the Fifth Amendment with which we are now
concerned.
I think due process is described in the Constitution
and limited and circumscribed by it. The Constitution
is explicit as respects the permissible accusatory process
that the Executive can employ against the citizen. Men
of goodwill, not evil ones only, invent, under feelings of
urgency, new and different procedures that have an awful
effect on the citizen. The new accusatory procedure survives if a transient majority of the Court are persuaded
that the device is fair or decent. My view of theConstitution confines judges-as well as the lawmakers and the
Executive-to the procedures expressed in the Constitution. We look to the Constitution--not to the personal
predilections of the judges--to see what is permissible.
Since summoning an accused by The Government to
explain or justify his conduct,.4hat is charged as a crime,
may be done only in One way, I would require a constitu.tional amendment before it can be done in a different way.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

The alternate path which we take today leads to trial
of separate essential parts of criminal prosecutions by
commissions, by executive agencies, by legislative committees. Farming out pieces of trials to investigative
agencies is fragmentizing the kind of trial the Constitution authorized. It prejudices the ultimate triil itself;
and it puts in the hands of officials the awesome power
which the Framers entrusted Qnly to judges, grand jurors
and petit jurors drawn from the community where the
accused lives. It leads to government by inquisition.
The Civil Rights Commission can hold all the hearings
it desires; it can adduce testimony from as many people
as it likes; it can search the records and archives for such
information it needs to make an informed report to Congress. See United States v. Morton Salt Co., 338 U. S.
632; Oklahoma PressPub.Co. v. Walling, 327 U. S. 186.
But when it summons a person, accused under affidavit
of having violated the federal election law, to see if the
charge is true, it acts in lieu either of a grand jury or
of a committing magistrate. The sifting of criminal
charges against people is for the grand jury or for judges
or magistrates and for them alone under our .Constitution. In my view no other accusatory body can be used
that withholds the rights of confrontation and crossexamination from those accused of federal crimes.
I would affirm these judgments:.

