AMERICAN SUGAR REF'G CO. v. UNITED STATES. 155
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 3.

Argued November 11, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

A direct appeal from the Circuit- Court will not lie where the only real
substantial point is whether or not an officer of the United States
has misconstrued a statute.
The claim that the Secretary of the:Treasury has exercised legislative
power in promulgating, pursuant to § 251, Revised Statutes, regulations concerning the collection of duties under the tariff law does
not constitute a real and substantial dispute or controversy concerning the construction or application of the Constitution upon which
the result depends, and a direct appeal will not lie to this court under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828.
The regulations of 1897, promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury,
in regard to polariscopic tests of sugar to determine the duty payable thereon, as provided in § 1, Schedule E, par. 209, of the Tariff
Act of-July 24, 1897, c. 11, 30 Stat. 168, could have been enacted
in terms by Congress without violating jany provision of the Constitution of the United States, and prior decisions have determined
that the Secretary properly construed the statute.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Henry B. Closson
and Mr. John E. Parsons were on the brief, for appellant:
The appeal in this case although arising under the revenue
laws is properly brought direct from the Circuit Court and
brings with it not only the constitutional questioh involved,
but all the questions arising upon the record.
If the Treasury regulations are invalid, it is because ii assuming to add something to the dutiable standard prescribed
by the tariff act they constitute an exercise by the executive
branch of the Government of legislative power which, by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellee.

211 U. S.

Constitution, has been confided solely to Congress. In a case
presenting this question, a direct appeal lies to this court.
Boske v. Comingore, 177 U. S. 459.
Such an appeal brings up every question in the case. Davis
Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207; Homer v. United States,
No. 2, 143 U. S. 570; Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499.
Where this constitutional question is presented, it is immaterial that the case arises under the revenue laws.
When the case made by the plaintiff involves a question
other than those, relating to the constitutionality of the act
and to the application and construction of the Constitution,
the Circuit Court of Appeals has jurisdiction to review the
judgment of the Circuit Court, although, if the plaintiff had
elected to bring it here directly, this court would have had
jurisdiction to determine all the questions arising upon the
record.

.

.

.

The meaning of the words "arising under

the revenue laws," in the sixth section, is satisfied if they are
held as embracing a case strictly arising under laws providing
for internal revenues and which does not, by reason of any
question in it, belong also to the class mentioned in the fifth section of the act of 1891. Spreckles Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S.397.
Mr. James C. McReynolds for appellee:
The direct appeal from the Circuit Court cannot be entertained unless the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States is involved. Upon that ground alone
counsel for appellant attempt to support the jurisdiction.
They say that ifthe Treasury regulations are invalid, it is
because, in assuming to add something to the dutiable standard prescribed by the tariff act, they constitute an exercise
by the executive branch of the Government of legislative
power which by the Constitution has been confided solely
to Cor~gress.
A mere allegation that some constitutional question is involved does not suffice to give jurisdiction; the record must

AMERICAN SUGAR REF'G CO. v. UNITED STATES. 157
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

show a real, substantial dispute or controversy concerning the
construction or application of the Constitution upon which
the result depends. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Ann Arbor
R. R. Cb., 178 U. S. 239, 243; Lampasas v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276;
American Sugar Refining Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, 281.
No such dispute or controversy exists.
The only :real substantial point involved is whether or not
the Secretary of tlte Treasury acting under § 251, Rev. Stat.,
properly construed the statute, and that gives this court no
jurisdiction upon direct appeal. Sloan v. United States, 193
U. S.614, 620; Beavers v. Haubert, 198 U. S.77, 85.
It may not be doubted that Congress, without violating
any constitutional provision, could have in terms directed
exactly what was prescribed by the Treasury regulations.
If, attempting to act under the statute, executive officers have
imposed an unauthorized burden upon appellant, no constitutional rights have been violated; there has been at most a
misconstruction of the law, which does not give a direct appeal.
South Carolina v. Seymour, 153 U. S. 353, 358; Linford v.
Ellison, 155 U. S. 503, 508; Rawlins v. Georgia, 201 U. S. 638;
Matter of Moran, 203 U. S.96, 104.
Manifestly, if the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States within the meaning of § 5, act
of 1891, is involved in every case where one claims according
to his interpretation of a statute excessive duty or tax has been
'demanded by executive officers, the provisions of that act
making decisions of the Circuit Court of Appeals in revenue
cases final are of very limited value, and this court must entertain direct appeals from the Circuit Courts in most tariff and
tax controversies.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
The tariff act of July 24, 1897, c. 11, 30 Stat. 151, provides (p. 168):

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

"Par. 209. Sugars not above number sixteen Dutch standard
in color, tank bottoms, sirups of cane juice, melada, concentrated melada, concrete and concentrated molasses, testing
by the polariscope not above seventy-five degrees, ninety-five
one-hundreths of one per cent per pound, and for every additional degree shown by the polariscopic test, thirty-five onethousandths of one cent per pound additional, and fractions
of a degree in proportion; and on sugar above number sixteen
Dutch standard in color, and on all sugar which has gone
through a process of refining, one cent and ninety-five onehundreths of one cent per pound; molasses testing above
forty degrees and not above fifty-six degrees, three cents per
gallon; testing fifty-six degrees and above, six cents per gallon;
sugar drainings and sugar sweepings shall be subject to duty
as molasses or sugar, as the case may be, according to polariscopic test:

.

In October, 1897, the Treasury Department issued general
regulations I (subsequently modified in particulars not material
here) governing sampling and classification of sugars under
the above-quoted paragraph, which, among other things,
declared:
"The expression 'testing

.

.

.

degrees by the polar-

iscope,' occurring in the act, is construed to mean the percentage of pure sucrose contained in the sugar as ascertained
by polarimetric estimation."
It was further stated that changes of temperature affect the
indications of a polariscope, and to determine by means of
it true sucrose contents apparent readings must be corrected
as shown by a table accompanying each instrument and embodying the results of careful experiments therewith; when
the thermometer is above 17.5' Centigrade, the point of
standardization, additions must be made; when below, corresponding subtractions.
I These regulations, as originally promulgated, will be found at length
annexed to Treasury Department Synopsis of -Decisions No. 18,508, and
see pars. 77 et seq.

AMERICAN SUGAR REF'G CO. v. UNITED STATES.
.211 U. S.

159

Opinion of the Court.

The interpretation of the statute and validity of the regulations were at once challenged by importers, who claimed
that the reading of a polariscope is not affected by change
in temperature; and, further, that the term "polariscopic
test" in the tariff act of 1897, according to its well-settled
commercial use, as well as by the language itself, requires
testing only in the way theretofore observed by merchants,
and forbids any correction of the result observed by the eye.
These contentions were denied by the collector.
The importers appealed to the Board of General Appraisers,
and in March, 1899, their protest was overruled in a considered
opinion. G. A. 4386.
Under the titles Bartram Bros. v. United States, Howell v.
United States and The American Sugar Refining Company v.
United States, appeal was taken to the Circuit Court, Southern
District of New York, Which was decided May 4, 1903. 123
Fed. Rep. 327. That court reversed the judgment of the
General Appraisers, holding that the term, "testing by the
polariscope," had a well-settled commercial meaning prior to
1897, and must be interpreted according thereto. It declared,
however, the preponderance of proof sustained the contention
"that there is a variation in the reading of the polariscope,
according to variations in temperature at the place where the
sugar is tested, and that the corrections and additions provided for by the regulations merely consist in an addition of
3 per cent for each 10 degrees Centigrade of temperature above
that at which the polariscope is standardized, and that in this
way the actual amount of pure sucrose in each sample is more
accurately determined than was the case under the old eye
test."
The Circuit Court of Appeals (131 Fed. Rep. 833) reversed
the Circuit Court and sustained the Generbl Appraisers. It
held Congress intended there should be a scientific determina.tion, by means of the polariscope, of sucrose contents, and
that the method prescribed by the Treasury regulations was
proper in order to secure the desired result.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

The rulings are correctly stated in the headnotes thus:
"In construing the provision in paragraph 209, tariff act
July 24,.1897, c. 11, see. 1, schedule E, 30 Stat. 168 (U. S.
Compiled St. 1901, p. 1647), regulating duty on sugars according to the polariscopic test, held that the expressions
therein, 'testing by the polariscope' and 'shown by the polariscopic test,' are not used with any special trade meaning that
would confine them to a particular method of conducting such
test, but import an intention on the part of Congress that the
method adopted should be the one best calculated to make
a scientific determination.
"Under the general power of the Secretary. f-the Treasury
to make customs regulations not inconsistent with law, granted
by section 251, Rev. Stat. (U. S. Comp. St. 1901, p. 138), it is
competent for that officer to prescribe the method of 'testing
by the polariscope' the sugars dutiable according to such test
under paragraph 209, tariff act July 24, 1897, c. 11, sec. 1,
schedule E, 30 Stat. 168 (U. S. Comp. 1901, p. 1647); and so
long as he acts in good faith, and it does not appear that his
regulations operate to make the polariscopic test less accurate
than when Congress adopted it, the courts should not interfere with the administrative details confided to him.
"Where, for a period of years covering the operation of
several tariff acts, the Secretary of the Treasury has made
regulations for carrying out certain provisions in those acts,
it is to be presumed that subsequent legislation by Congress
was enacted with reference to such regulations."
At October term, 1904, a petition for a writ of certiorari to
bring up thdse cases for review was presented to this court,
and denied. 195 U. S.635.
In the present cause counsel stipulated:
"It is agreed that the sugars in question were tested and
classified in accordance with the Treasury regulations of
October 27, 1897, and of February 17, 1899, and that the
questions raised are the same as those in the cases of Joseph
E. Bartram and others v. The United States, Benjamin H.

AMERICAN SUGAR REF'G CO. v. UNITED STATES. 161
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Howell and others v. The United States, and The American
Sugar Refining Company v. The United States, reported in
123 Fed. Rep. 327, and in 131 Fed. Rep. 833, and it is agreed
that the evidence and exhibits in those cases contained on
pages 33 to 364, inclusive, and pages 373 to 734, inclusive, of
the transcript of record in those cases prepared for the Supreme Court of the United States and contained in the volume
filed herewith . . . are to be treated as duly taken and
introduced as evidence in this cause."
By § 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828,
the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals are
made final in all cases arising under the revenue law, and. can
only be carried to the Supreme Court by certificate, or on a
certiorari. In the aforementioned cases there was no certificate for instruction on any question or proposition of law, and
the application for certiorari was denied. The present direct
appeal to this court is a mere attempt to obtain a reconsideration of questions arising under the revenue laws and already
determined by the Circuit Court of Appeals in due course.
Such direct appeals, under § 5 of the act of 1891, cannot be
entertained unless the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States is involved.
This is conceded, and counsel for appellant attempt to sustain the jurisdiction on the ground that the regulations assumed to add something to the dutiable standard prescribed
by the tariff act, and that in doing so the Secretary exercised
legislative power confided by the Constitution solely to Congress. But this does not constitute a real and substantial
dispute or controversy concerning the construction or application of the Constitution upon which the result depends.
The admitted duty of the Secretary of the Treasury was to
construe as best he could the paragraph relating to collection
of duty upon sugars, and to promulgate regulations for carrying it into effect. Rev. Stat. § 251. This and this alone he did.
The only real substantial point involved is 'whether or not he
misconstrued the statute, and that gives this court no jurisVOL. CCXI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

diction upon direct appeal. Sloan v. United States, 193 U. S.
614, 620, and cases cited; United States ex rel. Taylor v. Taft,
Secretary, 203 U. S. 461.
Undoubtedly Congress, without violating any constitutional
provision, could have in terms directed exactly what was prescribed by the Treasury regulations; and prior decisions have
held that the statute was properly construed by the Secretary.
We concur with counsel for the Government that if the
construction' or application of the Constitution of the United
States, within the meaning of § 5, act of 1891, is involved in
every case where one claims that according to his interpretation of a statute excessive duty or tax has been demanded
by executive officers, the provisions of that act making decisions of the Circuit Court of Appeals in revenue cases final
are of very limited value, and this court must entertain direct
appeals from the Circuit Courts in most tariff and tax controversies, which we regard as out of the question.
Appeal dismissed.

COTTON v. TERRITORY OF HAWAII, BY HOLLOWAY,
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.

No. 7.

Argued October 27, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

The elementary rule, that the power of this court to review judgments

under § 709, Rev. Stat., and under statutes relating to review of
judgments from territorial 'courts extends only to final judgments,
also governs appeals from the Supreme Court of Hawaii under § 86
of the act of April 30, 1900, c. 339, 31'Stat. 141, 158, and the amendatory act of March 3, 1905, c. 1465, 33 Stat. 1035.

The power of this court to review the judgments of courts of the Territories depends upon acts of Congress and cannot be extended by.

territorial legislation.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Hawaii in this case, overruling

