OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

The argument of which we have given a summary outline is
far from establishing such a clear renunciation of the right to
tax as the cases require. Metropolitan Street Ry. Co. v. New
York State Board of Tax Commissioners, 199 U. S. 1. It appears
to us very questionable whether the phrase, "charges properly
or necessarily connected with the maintenance and operation
of the road," has any reference to taxes. It points inanother
direction. Taxes are left unmentioned in § 17, and the liability to them is assumed. The language of §30 does not import
the imposition of a tax that otherwise would be excluded.
It takes the liability for granted, and relieves the company
from the burden for a certain time. The drift of the section
cannot be made clearer by leIgthy restatement. It starts with
exoneration and merely saves the right to tax the portions
completed by a proviso which, in this case, fulfills the proper
function of that much abused term. If any doubt were raised
by § 17, which does not seem to us to be the case, it would be
relieved by this further section of the same act. Nothing
else seems to us to need mention in the present posture of the
case.
Judgment affirmed.

HONOLULU RAPID TRANSIT AND LAND COMPANY v.
WILDER,1 ASSESSOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 22.

Argued October 28, 29, 1908.-Decided November 16, 1908.

Where the record does not show that any Federal question was raised

or suggested before the assignment of errdr in this court, a judgment of the Supreme Court of Hawaii cannot be reviewed by this

court under § 86 of the act of April 30, 1900, c. 339, 31 Stat. 141.
The claim that a charter granted by the Republic of Hawaii has become a statute of the United States because ratified by act of ConI

Substituted for Holt, assessor.

HONOLULU TRANSIT CO. v. WILDER.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gress, must be asserted before assignment of error in this court in
order to give this court jurisdiction to review on the ground that
the construction of, or a right claimed under, a law of the United
States is involved.
Writ of error to review 18 Hawaii, 15, dismissed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. David L. Withington and Mr. Aldis B. Broume, with
whom Mr. William R. Castle, was on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Charles R. Hemenway, Attorney General of the Territory
of Hawaii, with whom Mr. Mason F. Prosser, was on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is intended to bring up a question of deductions
from gross income in assessing the income tax of the appellant,
as well as that of the liability'of the plaintiff in error to the tax.
The liability to taxes not mentioned in the charter has been
disposed of by the preceding case. As to the former question,
the plaintiff in error says that it has no net income liable to
taxation. But the whole tax assessed was $588.20, and therefore the case cannot be brought here under the act of March 3,
1905, c. 1465, § 3, 33 Stat. 1035. On the other hand, the
record does not show that any Federal question was raised or
suggested before the assignment of error in this court, and
therefore the plaintiff in error has no standing under the act
of April 30, 1900, c. 339, § 86, 31 StAt. 141. It is true that in
the decision of the Tax Appeal Court it is said that the appellant claims under § 17 of its charter a right to charge certain
amounts against income. But it does not appear there or
elsewhere that the appellant set up that the charter was a
statute of the United States, or that it relied upon Article I,
§ 10, or any other clause of the Constitution of the United
States.
Writ dismissed.
VOL. CcxI-10

