PAGEv. ROGERS.
211 U.S.

Counsel for Parties.

PAGE v. ROGERS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 39. Argued December 3, 4, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.
Where two courts have concurred in findings of fact in a suit in equity,
this court will accept those findings unless clear error is shown. Dun
v. Lumbermen's Credit Association, 209 U. S. 20.
A partner cannot be considered as solvent individually as distinct from
his firm which is insolvent, when he is practically the only partner,
and his associate, although nominally a partner, is in fact only an
employ6; and a preferential payment made from his individual estate
may, under such circumstances, be recovered for the benefit of all his
creditors.
A deed unrecorded and placed in escrow more than four months before
bankruptcy and delivered within that period hcd, under the circumstances of this case, to be a preferential payment within the meaning
of the bankruptcy law.
The amount of fees to which counsel for the trustee in bankruptcy is
entitled is a matter for the bankruptcy court and in this case this
court will not interfere with the amount fixed.
149 Fed. Rep. 194, affirmed on these points.
One compelled to surrender a preferential payment is entitled to prove
his claim and receive dividends equally with other creditors, Keppel v.
Tiffin Savings Bank, 197 U. S. 356, and where the suit is in the bankruptcy court and it is practicable, as in this case, to ascertain the
amount of the dividend to which he will be entitled, it can be fixed
and deducted from the amount which he is compelled to surrender.
149 Fed. Rep. 194, reversed solely for this purpose.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Spurlock, with whom Mr. E. J. Page, Mr. Louis L.
Waters and Mr. Foster V. Brown were on the brief, for ap-

pellants.
Mr. J. B. Sizer, with whom Mr. George D. Lancaster.and
Mr. Robert Pritchardwere on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE

211 U. S.

MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal in equity from a decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The suit was begun by the
appellee, the trustee of the estate of I. B. Merriam, a bankrupt,
against Thomas Merriam, to recover a preference alleged to
have been received by the latter in violation ofi the bankrupt
law. During the pendency of the suit the defendant died,
and the executors of his will were admitted to defend. The
plaintiff had a decree, 'which was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. There were findings of fact by. the District Court,
concurred in by the Circuit Court ofdAppeals. These findings,
together with the undisputed facts, may be condensed and
stated in narrative form.
I. B. Merriam had been engaged in business for some years as
a wholesale grocer at Chattanooga, Tenn. On the first day of
June, 1903, he was considerably indebted and insolvent, and the
defendant knew it. Much the larger portion of his indebtedness
was to his brother, the defendant, Thomas Merriam, or to persons holding claims which Thomas Merriam had guaranteed by
indorsement or otherwise. I. B. Merriam then had no assets of
much value, with the exception of an undivided half interest in
certain coal lands situated in Tennessee. On that day he conveyed his interest in the coal lands to Thomas Merriam, who
agreed to pay therefor $65,000 in money and stock of the par
value of $20,000 in the Tennessee Lumber & Coal Company, a
corporation, to which Thomas Merriam immediately sold and
conveyed the land. The purchase money, after the deduction
of $7,400, used for the purpose of extinguishing encumbrances
on the land, in pursuance of an agreement made at the time,
was mainly devoted to the payment of the debt then due directly
from I. B. Merriam to Thomas Merriam, and to the payment of
other debts of I. B. Merriam for which Thomas Merriam was
liable. At the same time, and as part of the same transaction,
Thomas Merriam caused to be advanced to I. B. Merriam $10,000
additional upon the pledge of his stock in the Tennessee Lum-

PAGE. v. ROGERS.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ber & Coal Company. The net result of the transaction was
that I. B. Merriam received, as the consideration for the conveyance of his interest in the coal lands, $75,000 in cash and an
equity of redemption of the pledged shares in the corporation.
Of this $75,000, $61,000, by agreement, was applied either to
the payment of the debt due to Thomas Merriam, or, on his
demand, to the payment of debts for which he was liable. At
the time of the conveyance and the making of the agreement
stated Thomas Merriam had reasonable cause to believe that
thereby his brother intended to give him. a preference. The
purpose and effect of the transfer was to give Thomas Merriam
a greater percentage of his debt than could be obtained by
other creditors of the same class. Indeed, the purpose and
effect of the transfer was to pay Thomas Merriam in full and
to exonerate him from all liability as guarantor, and its effect
was to leave all other creditors with substantially nothing to
meet their claims. Within a very few days after this transaction was completed I. B. Merriam filed a voluntary petition in
bankruptcy, and was subsequently adjudicated a bankrupt.
Upon the foregoing statement of facts it is indisputable
that Thomas Merriam received a preference to the extent of
$61,000, forbidden by the bankrupt law, and that it could be
avoided and recovered by the trustee. We do not understand
counsel for the defendant as disagreeing with this conclusion.
Conceding it, however, counsel urged with great earnestness
that the findings of fact in the two courts below were erroneous,
and we were invited to consider the evidence again in that
view. But the rule is well established that where two courts
have concurred in findings of facts in a suit in equity, this
court will accept those findings, unless clear error is shown.
Dun v. Lumbermen's Credit Association, 209 U. S. 20.
We are unable to discover any such error. On the contrary,
every fact essential to constitute a preference was substantiated by the evidence. That being so we decline to subject
to minute scrutiny the language of the court employed in discussing questions of fact. There is no reason for a review of
VOL. ccxi-37

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

the evidence in detail. The Circuit Court of Appeals has reviewed it satisfactorily in a convincing opinion, and we do
not feel called upon to repeat the discussion.
There, however, should be a brief reference to two contentions of the defendant, that the findings were influenced by
erroneous views of the law. It is first said that there was error
in law in confounding the individual debts of I. B. Merriam
with the partnership debts of I. B. Merriam & Son, with the
result that I. B. Merriam was ofound to be insolvent as an individual, while really he was solvent, as his individual assets
exceeded his individual indebtedness. , But there was no real
partnership. I. B. Merriam & Son was simply the name under
which I. B. Merriam conducted the wholesale grocery business.
The son was only an employ6, receiving a salary, and had no
interest whatever in the business. All the assets were owned
and all the debts were owed by I. B. Merriam alone.
It is further said that I. B. Merriam agreed in writing, on
November 15, 1902, to convey the coal lands to Thomas Merriam in satisfaction of the debts due to him or for which he
was liable. It is, therefore, argued that as the "conveyance, on
June 1, 1903, was in performance of this agreement, which antedated the bankruptcy proceedings by more than four months,
it cannot be regarded as a preference.
The facts, however, do not raise the question which was
argued. Upon a proper interpretation of the evidence we
need not determine whether an insolvent debtor may make an
agreement to convey a substantial portion of his assets to a
favored creditor, keep that agreement secret for more than
four monthg, and then execute it in fraud of the rights of his
other creditors, in favor of a creditor who then has reasonable
cause to believe that he is receiving a preference. In re Broadway Savings Trust Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 152, and see Wilson. v.
Nelson, 183 U. S. 191.
What actually occurred was that a contract in writing was
made in November, 1902, between I. B. Merriam and his coowner, parties of the first part, and Thomas Merriam and an-

PAGE v. ROGERS.
211 U. S.

.5&79

Opinion of the Court.

other, parties of the second part, whereby the parties of the
first part agreed to sell and the parties of the second part
agreed to buy the coal lands for a named price. Nothing whatever in this contract required that I. B. Merriam's share of
the consideration should be paid to Thomas Merriam or on debts
for which he was liable. Moreover, the contract and a deed
which was drawn in pursuance of its terms were not delivered,
but were deposited in escrow with a bank in Syracuse, N. Y.,
and never became operative instruments. Nothing more need
be said of them, or of the question supposed to be raised.
When Thomas Merriam came to file his answer in the suit,
he alleged, in substance, that several years before the conveyance, which has been referred to, and the adjudication in
bankruptcy, which followed, I. B. Merriam had executed and
delivered, for an expressed consideration of $,35,000, a trust
deed of the coal lands, which was intended to be a security
to Thomas Merriam for loans which he had made or might
make to his brother, up to that amount. This trust deed, as
subsequently appeared by the evidence, was executed but not
.registered. A registration of the deed was not required by the
law of the State of Tennessee to make it a valid instrument
inter pates. The defendant therefore contended that so far
as the payments from the purchase money of the coal lands
were applied to the indebtedness secured by the trust deed
.they were payments for the extinguishment of a valid, subsisting lien upon the land, fixed upon it more than four months
before bankruptcy, and therefore not a preference. It may be
assumed, without decision, that the payment within four
months of bankruptcy of a mortgage older than four months,
and valid inter partes, though unrecorded, cannot be a preference. There is no such case here. The trust deed was not
.delivered unconditionally and the parties to it intended that
it should go into effect as a lien only when it was registered, which was never done. The instrument, though actually
written, was never delivered as a present, valid and subsisting obligation. It was dxecuted and, held in the possession of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

the grantor to be delivered and to become operative as a conveyance at some future time, which never arrived. It was
written and held ready for instant use, but never actually
used until brought forward to excuse a payment which otherwise would be an unlawful preference. In other words, the
paper was not as much as an unrecorded deed; it was not a dteed
at all. Such in effect was the finding of both courts below and
we think it was warranted by the evidence, As has been said,
the first reference to this paper was made by the defendant's
answer, wherein it was alleged that the paper was a deed executed and delivered. The plaintiff's general replication put
in issue at least the existence of the deed and no amendment
to the bill was needed.
The alternative ruling that the trust deed was invalid for
want of good faith, and because it was agreed to be withheld
from record to mislead and defraud creditors, may be ,disregarded. Therefore we need not consider whether the bill
should have been amended to permit an attack on the deed
as fraudulent.
What has been said disposes of every question made in the
case, except one, which may be considered more advantageously after the form of the decree is noticed. There were two
decrees in the cause. Their effect, taken together, as we understand them, is to order the defendant to pay into the court
of bankruptcy the $61,000 received as a preference on June 1,
1903, with interest to the date of the rendition of the final
decree, making'the total amount to be paid $70,891.54. The
theory upon which the decree proceeded was, that no greater
sum should be required of the defendant than would be needed
to meet the amount of the claims proved or provable against
the bankrupt and the cost and expenses of the administration
of the bankrupt estate, including fees of counsel for the trustee.
As this amount exceeded that received by the defendant by
way of preference, the decree exacted of him all that he had
received. In computing the amount required to meet the expenses of administration a fee of $15,000, of counsel for the

PAGE v. ROGERS.
-211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trustee for their services to him in all matters, including this
litigation, was included. The defendant complains that this
fee is exorbitant. It certainly appears to be large. It seems,
however, that the proper place to raise this question would be
in the bankruptcy court. In any event, we would be. unwilling
to reverse the judgment of the lower courts upon this question,
in view of the fact that they have a much more intimate acquaintance with the services than we can possibly have.
All that has been said would naturally lead to an affirmance
of the decree. Nevertheless, we are of the opinion that itought to be modified, for a reason not dwelt upon in argument.
Now that this litigation has come to an end, and the defendant has been compelled to surrender the preference which he
received, he is entitled to prove his claim and to receive a
dividend on it upon an equality with other creditors. Keppel
v. Tiffin Savings Bank,197 U. S. 356. In view of the fact that
this suit was brought in the bankruptcy court itself, and a
final decree is to be entered by the judge of that court, it is
entirely practicable to avoid the circuitous proceeding of compelling the defendant to pay into the bankruptcy court the
full amount of the preference which he has received, and then
to resort to the same court to obtain part of it back by way
of dividend. The defendant may be permitted, if he shall be
so advised, to prove his claim against the estate of the bankrupt, and the bankrupt court then may settle the amount of
the dividend coming to him, and the final decree may direct
him to pay over the full amount of his preference, with interest, less the amount of his dividend. Solely for the purpose
of accomplishing this result, the final decree in the case is reversed and the case remanded to the District Court to take
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Decree reversed.

