OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

211 U. S.

BOWERS HYDRAULIC DREDGING COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 9.

Argued November 11, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

Where words 'used in a contract are plain and unambiguous, expert
testimony, as to their commercial signification, is not admissible for
the purpose of destroying the plain and obvious intendment of a
contract; and so held that where a Government dredging contract
by its terms expressly excluded material which slid into the excavation from the slope outside of the stakes, expert testimony to show
that the trade meaning of the words "measured in place" includes
such sliding material if dredged was properly excluded.
After the Government has, against the contractor's protest, affixed
a meaning to terms used in a contract, the contractor cannot reassert the same claim in regard to a supplementary contract for
additional work of the samenature even if the original contract were
susceptible of the construction claimed by him.
41 C. Cl. 214, 498, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.-

Mr. L. T. Michener, with whom Mr. W. W. Dudley and
Mr. P. G. Michener were on the brief, for appellant:
The language of the contract is plain. The decision of the
engineer in charge was required; not the decision of the chief
of the corps; not the decision of the Secretary of War; not
obedience to instructions. Mansfield &c. R. Co. v. Veeder, 17
Ohio, 204, 385; Baldwin's Case, 15 C. Cls. 297, 303; King's
Case, 37 C. Cls. 428; Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524, 608.
The power vested in the engineer in charge was such that he
could not delegate it, nor could any one else, assume it, no
matter how high his station, nor could it be discharged by a
subordinate. Archer v. Williamson, 2 Harris & Gill (Md.), 62;
Wilson v. York &c. R. Co., 11 Gill & J. (Ma.) 59, 72; Weeks v.
Boynton, 37 Vermont, 297; Eastern R. Co. v. Eastern Union R.
Co., 68 Eng. Ch. 463; Lingnood v. Eade, 2 Atk. 501; Proctor v.
Williams, 8 C. B. (N. S.) 386; Whitmore v. Smith, 5 H. & N.
824;Little v. Newton, 2 Scott N. R. 509.

BOWERS DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
211 U. S.

177

Argument for Appellant.

The engineer in charge had the right to ask information from
disinterested persons, but not from his superior officers, for
they were not disinterested. Soulsby v. Hodson, 3 Burr. 1474;
Caledonia Ry. Co. v. Lockhart, 3 Macq. 808; Anderson v. Wallace, 3 Cl. & Fin. 26; Eads v. Williams, 3 DeG., M. & G. 674;
Hopcraft v. Hickman, 3 L. J. Ch. 43.
If the engineer officer proceeded upon a wrong or mistaken
interpretation of the contract, the court will give relief, notwithstanding the provision that his decision shall be final.
Robertson v. Frank Brothers Co., 132 U. S. 17; Lewis v. Chicago
&c. R. R., 49 Fed. Rep. 708; Alton R. R. Co. v. Northcott, 15
Illinois, 49; Starkey v. DeGroff, 22 Minnesota, 431; M. & G.
R. R. Co. v. Veeder & Co., 17 Ohio, 385; McAvoy v. Long, 13
Illinois, 147; Williams v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 112 Missouri,
463, 493-495; Herrick v. Ver. Gent. R. Co., 27 Vermont, 673;
Kidwell v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 11 Gratt. 376; Kistler v. I. &
St. L. R. Co., 88 Indiana, 460; Beckwith Case, 38 C. Cls. 295,
314.
In performing the functions conferred by such stipulations,
the engineer must have strict regard to the terms of the contract. His duties are to be ascertained from it, and his powers
are limited to what it confers, or clearly implies. He cannot go
beyond it nor behind it. His powers are not to be enlarged by
implication beyond the plain words used. Launman v. Younge,
13 Pa. St. 306; Williams v. Chicago Ry. Co., 112 Missouri, 466;
Sawtelle v. Howard (Mich.), 62 N. W. Rep. 156.
In the case at bar, the engineer went beyond the contract
and asked his superior officers to instruct him how to decide,
although the sole power of decision was vested in him by the
terms of the contract and specifications prepared and furnished by the United States and which are to be taken most
strictly against the Government, liberality of coiistruction
being in favor of the contractor. Edgar Thotiiipon Works
Case, 34 C. Cls. 205, 219; Chavmbers Co.e, 24 C. Cs. 387.
The subject-matter of the controversy must be clearly
within the contract or specificationis to lake away the rights
VOL. CCXI-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

211 U. S.

of the court or jury, and the engineer's determination will
be conclusive only when clearly within the powers conferred
upon him. Sanders v. Hutchinson, 26 Illinois, 633; Mills v.
Weeks, 21 Illinois, 596; Launman v. Younge, 13 Pa. St. 306.
The engineer has no power to bind the parties when he goes
beyond the terms of the contract or misinterprets it. Starkey v.
DeGroff, 22 Minnesota, 431; Alton R. R. Co. v. Northcott, 15
Illinois, 49; Grant v. Savannah R. Co., 51 Georgia, 348; Kistler
v. I. & St. L. R. Co., 88 Indiana, 460.
The engineer's decision or estimate is a conclusive adjudication only upon the condition that it is made according to the
contract. Drehew v. Altoona, 121 Pa. St. 401; Williams v.
Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 112 Missouri, 463, 472, 473, 493-495;
The Beckwith case, 38 C. Cls. 295, 299, 314.
The engineer should have determined the amount of the
material excavated and removed by means of surveys made
before and after dredging and by calculations based thereon.
When the contract provides that the engineer shall determine the amount of work, it does not give him the exclusive
determination of the manner in which it shall be done according to contract. It does not give him the interpretation of the
contract., G. H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Henry, 65 Texas, 685;
G. H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Johnson, 74 Texas, 256; Williams v.
Chicago Ry. Co. (Mo.), 20 S. W. Rep. 631.
The contractor may show that the engineer misconstrued
the contract in his classifications of the work, and did not
measure the work according to .the contract, and he may show
these things by evidence without alleging fraud. Collins and
Farwell case, 34 C. Cls. 294, 332; Beckwith case, 38 C. Cls. 294,
299; Williams v. Chicago Ry. 6o., 112 Missouri, 463; Lewis v.
Chicago Ry. Co., 49 Fed. Rep. 708; Summers v. Chicago Ry.
Co., 49 Fed. Rep. 714; Bridge Co. v. City of St. Louis, 43 Fed.
Rep. 768; Lewis v. C. S. F. Ry. Co., 49 Fed. Rep. 708, 710.
The Government did not put language in the contract and
specifications stating that material coming in from the sides
should not be paid for.

BOWERS DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
211 U. S.

179

Argument for Appellee.

There seems to be no reason why there should not be applied to the contract and the specifioations here the principle
so often applied to statutes by this court, that if Congress
desires to grant a given power, right or authority, it says so
in express terms; and where it does not say so, the conclusion
is that it did not intend to give any such power. Tillson v.
United States, 100 U. S. 46; Vicksburg R. R. Co. v. Dennis, 116
U. S. 669; United States v. Chase, 135 U. S. 259.
The principles of interpretation are /very similar, whether
applied to contracts, to deeds, or to statutes. 2 Parsons on
Cont., side p. 494.
The Court of Claims should have considered and given due
weight tothe evidence about the trade meaning of the words
"nasured in place," and should have found the technical or
trade meaning of the words in connection with the other language of the specifications; evidence as to the meaning of those
words and specifications was admissible and should have been
considered by the court. 2 Parsons on Cont. (7th ed.), side
pp. 555, 556; 1 Greenleaf on Ev. (14th ed.), § 280; 1 Elliott
on Ev., § 605; 4 Wigmore on Ev., §§ 2458-2467; 1 Starkie
on Ev., side pp. 653, 701; Jones on the Const. of Com. and
Trade Contracts, §§ 62, 204.
See rule as stated by Mr. Justice Uampbell in Garrison v.
Memphis Ins. Co., 19 How. 312, 313.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson,: with
whom Mr. Philip M. Ashford, Special Attorney, was on the
brief, for appellee:
The construction or interpretation of the contract is the
ascertainment of the intention of the parties as expressed
therein. 17 Am. & Eng. Ency. L. (2d ed.), 2; Jones on the
Const. of Com. and Trade Contracts, 1; Anderson's Law Dictionary, 240.
The very idea and purpose of construction implies a previous
uncertainty as to the meaning of the contract, for where this is
clear and unambiguous there is no room for construction and

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

nothing for construction to do. 2 Parsons, 9th ed., 655; 17
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 4; 21 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
1109; Jones on Construction, etc., 31, 111, 237, 267; ioran v.
Prather, 23 Wall. 492, 500; Culber v. Wilkinson, 145 U. S. 205,
212; Iron World v. Cottrell, 31 Fed. Rep. 254, 256.
The first duty of the trial court in the case at bar in considering the question of the admissibility of the expert testimony offered was to examine the contract with a view of discovering whether or not there was any ambiguity, patent or
latent, therein, or any uncertainty or doubt as to the meaning
of any of its terms or provisions, and, none being found, itwas
both proper and right to exclude said testimony.
The first duty of the court was to give force and effect to
the contract as written, if possible.
On the other hand, if the court, upon such examination of
the contract, should be in doubt as to the meaning of any of
its terms or provisions, it might then proceed to apply the
well-known rules of construction, among which, though not
of first importance, is the rule that expert testimony may be
admitted to explain the trade, or technical, meaning of words
or phrases.
But an examination of the contract which is the subject of
controversy herein shows that its language is so plain and unambiguous as to leave no room for construction or interpretation, nor for the introduction of evidence as to the trade
meaning of any of its terms and provisions, and the Court of
Claims properly so decided.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, the dredge company, sued to recover
$28,321.76. The relief sought was based on the averment that
wider a contract for dredging a channel, in the Christiana
River and in or about the harbor of Wilmington, Delaware,
made in 1899, and a supplementary contract made in June,
1901, the dredge company had excavated 260,430 cubic yards

BOWERS DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
211 U. S.

181

Opinion of the Court.

of earth, for which, at the contract price, it should have been
paid the sum sued for, but that the United States, in making
settlement under the contract, despite the protest of the dredge
company, had declined to pay, upon the ground that excavating and removing the earth referred to was not within the
contract. The pertinent facts found by the court below are
these (41 C. Cl. 214, 498):
Prior to September, 1899, the United States was engaged
in excavating a channel in the Christiani'a River and about
the harbor of Wilmington, Delaware. The work, in September, 1899, was in process of execution, under a contract between the United States and the New York Dredging Company.
In the office of the United States engineer in charge of the work
there exited maps or drawings showing the condition of the
river prior to any work being done by the New York Dredging
Company, the location of the channel in which the work was
being done, and the specifications controlling the contract,
as well as the progress made in the work. Of these facts the
dredge company had knowledge. On September 18, 1899,
the United States engineer office at Wilmington, through
William F. Smith, United States agent, advertised for proposals for the dredging and removing of about nine hundred
thousand cubic yards of material in connection with the work
then being done, as previously stated. In the advertisement
inviting the proposals it was stated that specifications, blank
forms for proposals, and all available information woutld be
furnished on application to the engineer office. The specifications for the work in question recited:
"The project, for the completion of which contracts are
authorized in the law above quoted, requires the dredging
of the Christiana River to a depth of 21 feet at mean low water
from the 21-foot curve in the Delaware River to the upper
line of the pulp works; thence to the draw pier of the Sheilpot
branch, No. 4, of the P., W. & B. R. R., so as to give a depth
which gradually diminishes to 10 feet at mean low water at
the latter-named place and the removal of shoals having less

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S..

than seven (7) feet of water over them; thence to Newportthe width to be 250 feet to the mouth of the Brandywine,
200 feet thence to the upper line of the pulp works, and 100
feet above. Work is now in progress under contracts for
dredging to a depth of 18 feet up to the pulp works, the width
to be made being 200 feet, and for all above-described dredging
above the pulp works. The work required finder these specifications is the dredging that remains to complete the project
additional to that done or to be done under the contracts
above referred to until their termination or completion. It is
estimated that about 900,000 cubic yards will have to be removed."
The character of the work required, the method of carrying
on the same and the steps to be taken to fix the amount to
become due under the contract when fully performed were
stated in the specifications as follows:
"The amount of material removed will be paid for by the
cubic yard measured in place, and shall be determined by
surveys made before dredging is commenced and after it is
completed. All surveys and measurements are to be made
under the direction of the engineer in charge by persons employed by him for that purpose. The decision of the engineer
in charge as to the amount of material excavated and removed,
as well as to its location and deposit, shall be final and without appeal on the part of the contractor.
"The location of the work shall be plainly located by stakes
and ranges. The level of mean low water as established by
the engineer in charge shall not be changed during the progress
of the work. The contractor shall be required to supply the
lumber for the necessary stakes and ranges, and shall at all
times when called upon furnish men and boats to set them
and keep them set under the direction of the inspector, the
expense thereof to be included in the contract price for the
dredging.
"No guarantee is given us to'the nature of the bottom, but
as far as it is known it is sand, mud, clay, and gravel. Bidders

BOWERS DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
211 U. S.

183

Opinion of the Court.

are requested to satisfy themselves upon this point and to
examine all other local conditions, as it will be assumed that
their bids are based upon personal information. No extra
allowance will be made for excavating material differing from
that herein described.
"It is understood and agreed that the quantities given are
approximate only, and it must be understood that no claim
will be made against the United States on account of any
excess or deficiency, absolute or relative, in the same. Bidders
are expected to examine the drawings, and are invited to make
the estimate of quantities for themselves. It is not expected
that the actual quantities will vary more than 10 per centum
from the estimates.
"Payments will be allowed for actual dredging to twentyone (21) feet below mean low-water level. Work done outside
of the designated lines of excavation or below the specified
depth will not be paid for, and any material deposited otherwise than specified and agreed upon must be removed by the
contractor at his own expense."
On November 20, 1899, the claimant (dredge company),
whose proposal had been accepted, entered into a contract
with the United States through General William F. Smith,
United States agent, for the performance of the additional
dredging, in conformity with the advertisements and specifications referred to in the preceding findings. It was provided
in the contract that "the said Bowers Hydraulic Dredging
Company shall furnish all labor, machinery and appliances
necessary or proper for the faithful execution of the contract,
and shall do the work called for, and in all respects carry out
and comply with the said specifications for dredging." The
sum to be paid was fixed by the contract at 10J cents for each
and every cubic yard of material dredged, "measured in
place," the said price including removal and redeposit.
Presumably, in consequence of knowledge on the part of
the dredge company of a refusal by the Government to pay
the New York Dredging Company for the work being done by

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

it for the removal of any earth from the excavated channel,
derived from the sliding from slopes of the same, the dredging
company, before commencing work, addressed a letter to General Smith, engineer in charge, requesting to know whether
its contract would be construed as excluding payment for
removing such earth. General Smith replied "that payment
will be made for the quantity of material removed within the
designated lines of excavation as determined by measurement
before and after the dredging, and that such measurement does
not include material which comes in from the sides during the
progress of dredging." The letter stated: "I deem it proper
to add that this is in conformity with the instructions received
from the chief of engineers on the subject." The dredge company thereupon replied, protesting against this construction,
declaring that it was not bound thereby, and that its performance of the work must not be construed as an acceptance
of the correctness of such interpretation.
The work was commenced. Whenever a payment was made
under the contract the dredge company, in receiving the same,
asserted that it was entitled to be paid for removing any earth
which had fallen into the excavation from the slopes and
which had been removed by it, and on payment for such work
being refused it protested.

On June 21, 1901, while the work

on the contract was proceeding, the dredge company made
a supplementary contract, increasing the amount to be by it
excavated, in accordance with the terms and specifications of
the prior contract, from 900,000 to 1,300,000 cubic yards.
As the work thereafter progressed under both contracts payments were continued to be made by the Government and
received by the dredge company under protest, as before
stated, until the work under the contracts was finally completed.
The court below found:
"The amount of material that fell or slid from the sides or
slopes of the vertical walls in front of the dredge and that was
removed thereby along with the excavated material within the

BOWERS DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
211 U. S.

185

Opinion of the Court.

designated lines for dredging as provided by the contract,
was more than 30,000 cubic yards, which, at the contract
price of 101 cents per cubic yard, would amount to over
$3,000."
In the opinion delivered by the court below it was said:
"We are therefore of the opinion that the specifications,
which are made part of the contract, are plain and unambiguous, and that they not only furnish the basis of measurement in place of the material to be excavated, but that the
measurements made by the engineer in charge were in strict
accord therewith. This-being so, any other method of measurement in place, even though customary, is excluded by the terms
of the contract, and, therefore, expert testimony is not admissible to explain language that needs no explanation."
And for these reasons the right of the dredge company to
recover was denied. A new trial was asked, among others,
on the ground that error had been committed in not finding
the trade meaning of the words, "measured in place," and
because the amount of cubic yards of earth which had slid in
from the sides or slopes of the excavation while the contract
was being performed, and which had been removed by the
company, had not been fixed at 260,430 instead of "as above
30,000," as stated in the findings. In addition a request was
mide that the findings be amended so as to qualify the finding
that the price paid should be 103 cents for each and every
cubic yard of material dredged, measured in place, by adding
the words, "the same being the trade meaning or understanding of the words ' neasuired in place.' " In addition it was
asked that the finding as to the amount of cubic yards removed of matter that fell from the sds or sIOl)eS be increased
from above 30,000 to 260,430. The motion for a new trial
and the motion to amenl the findings were overruled. The
court, in its reasons for (henying the motion, while stating that
certain expert testimony had been offered as to the meaning
of the words "measured in phice," further stated that it had
deeliied t, (.nsider the same and make a finding thereon,
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

as it concluded, as said in its previous opinion, that the import
of the words "measured in place," as used in the contract,
was so free from ambiguity that it did not consider the testimony relevant. This was based upon the opinion that whatever might be the commercial signification of the words that
meaning could not be imported into the contract for the purpose of destroying its plain and obvious intendment when
the terms of the entire contract and the specifications forming
part of the same were given their proper weight.
The errors complained of are all embraced under the following headings:
a. The refusal of the court to receive and consider testimony offered as to the trade meaning of the words "measured
in place " and its refusal to make a finding on the subject.
It being contended that the action of the court in refusing to
amend its findings and the statement, in its opinion, that it
declined to consider such testimony, adequately preserves the
question for review.
b. The refusal of the court to find the precise amount removed of earth which slid in from the sides or slopes, thus
leaving the finding uncertain on that subject.
c. The attributing of conclusive efficacy to the action of the
officer in charge.
And finally,
d. The construction given by the court to the contrakt.
It is apparent that the question of construction last stated
lies at the foundation of all the assignments, and therefore
first commands consideration. We say this because if it be
that the court, below was correct in its conclusion that the
contract gave to the words "measured in place," as therein
used, a plain and unambiguous signification, it is obvious that
the abstract or commercial meaning of those words, upon the
hypothesis that they have such meaning, was rightly held to
be irrelevant. And it is equally plain that if the court below
rightly construed the contract in the particular mentioned
it will be unnecessary to consider the effect which was given

BOWERS DREDGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
211 U. S.

187

Opinion of the Court.

to the action of the officer in charge, since that action was in
accordance with the meaning which the court gave to the
contract.
Coming to consider the contract, we are of opinion that
the court below correctly enforced its self-evident meaning.
The requirement that the amount of material removed should
be paid for by the cubic yard measured in place, and should be
determined by surveys made before dredging is commenced
and after its completion, clearly in and of itself established a
method for fixing the amount of material which might be excavated, and which was to be paid for, absolutely incompatible
with the contention that the contract contemplated that payment should be made for excavated earth which might slide
into the channel from the slopes of the same during the progress
of the work. And this is fortified by the requirement as to
the location of the stakes and the keeping of them continually
in place during the performance of the work under the contract. It is, moreover, additionally sustained by the provision, "that no extra allowance will be made for excavating
material different from that herein prescribed," and by the
stipulations, "that work done outside of the designated lines
of excavations or below the specified depth will not be paid
for," and "that any material deposited other than that specified and agreed upon must be removed by th6 contractor at
his own expense." When these provisions are read in connection with the specification stating that "no guarantee is given
as to the nature of the bottom, but, as far as it is known, it is
sand, mud, clay and gravel, bidders are requested to satisfy
themselves as to this point, and to examine all other local
conditions, as it will he assumed that their bids are based upon
personal information" in connection with the statement of
the approximate quantity, and the further condition that
"!no claim will be made against the United States on account
of any excess or deficiency, absolute or relative in the same,"
we think the conclusion is beyond reasonable controversy that
the contract, by its express terms and without ambiguity, ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

eludes the possibility of holding that earth which might slide
from the slopes during the excavation was to be paid for by the
United States. To separate the words "measured in place"
from all the other provisions of the contract in order to give
them an assumed or proven abstract trade meaning repugnant to their significance in the contract would be to destroy
and not to sustain and enforce the contract requirements.
Lest our silence upon the subject may give rise to misconception, we deem it well to observe that even if the original contract was susceptible of a different construction from that
which we hold arises from its plain import, such result could
have no possible influence on the asserted claim of the dredge
company, in so far as that claim is based upon excavation done
under the supplementary contract. We say this because that
contract was made with the full knowledge of the meaning
affixed by the United States to the terms of the contract, and
which had been insisted upon in the carrying on of the previous
dredging operations.
Affirnzed.
PH(ENIX BRIDGE COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 26.

Argued November 12, 13, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

In -a contract with the Government for the reconstruction of a drawspan bridge which provides for completion before opening of navigation, permission to use false work during construction does not

permit such use after the opening of navigation; and where the
completion is delayed through negligence of the contractor until
after opening of navigation and he is obliged by reason of destruction of the false work to substitute a lift span, he cannot recover
the extra cost occasioned thereby.

Qua re and not decided,whether a receipt for final paymelnt on a Governmen t con tract, given without l)rot est, amontits to al accord and
satisfaction so as to be a bar to a claim for extra work in connection

with the subject-matter of the contra(t but not specified therein.
38 C. Cl. 492, affirmed.

