UNITED STATES v. FORRESTER.
211 U. S.

1 396

Syllabus.

We think this conclusion arises not only because the giving
of the exceptional right to review in favor of the United Stat
is limited by the very terms of the statute to Iauthority to reexamine the particular decisions which the statute embraces,
but also because of the whole, context, which clearly indicites that the purpose was to confine the right given Ao'a
review 'of the decisions enumerated in the statute, leaving
all other questions to be controlled by the general mode of
procedure governing the same. It follows from what.we have
said that the court erred in its construction of the statutes
by which it quashed the first count of the indictment, and
that from a rightful construction of the statutes no error was
committed in quashing the second count. The order, therefore,' quashing the first count is reversed and that quashing
the second count is affirmed, and the case is
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity
to this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. FORRESTER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 287.

Argued October 22, 23, 26, 1908.-Decided December 14, 1908.

United States v. Keitel, ante, p. 370, followed; the rule therein stated as
to fraudulent entries of coal lands under §§ 2347-2350, Rev. Stat.,
by qualified persons for the benefit, and as agents of, disqualified
persons, applies not only to cash entries, but also to entries under
preferential rights by persons opening and developing mines on the
lands entered.
The preferential right under §§ 2348, 2349, Rev. Stat., is not in and of
itself the equivalent of an entry uncontrolled by the prohibitions
expressed in the statutes relating to entries of coal lands, but is simply

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

a privilege to make the statutory entry of a particular tract in preference to others.
157 Fed. Rep. 396, reversed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Attorney General and The Solicitor General, with whom
Mr. Edwin W. Lawrence, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States.'
* Mr. John M. Waldron, with whom Mr. G. Q. Richmond was
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

A demurrer having been sustained to an indictment found
against the present defendants in error, this writ of error was
prosecuted on behalf of the United States under the authority
of the act of March 2, 1907 (34 Stat. 1246).
The five persons named as defendants were accused of having at Durango, Colorado, entered into an unlawful conspiracy
to defraud the United States of more than thirty-five hundred
acres of coal lands, eighteen tracts of which land were particularly described. The purpose and object of the conspiracy
was averred to have been the obtaining of the title to the lands
for a Colorado corporation, styled the Calumet Fuel Company, in a quantity far greater .than the corporation could
lawfully acquire. The lands were averred to be "all then and
there lands of the United States, chiefly valuable for the
deposit of coal therein, situated within said land district, and
open to entry and purchase as coal lands at the said land office,
under the laws of the United States relating to the entry and
sale of coal lands, And the rules and regulations then in force,
which had theretofore been made under authority of said laws
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior." The means by which
For abstract of argument see United States v. Keitel, ante, p. 372.

UNITED STATES v. FORRESTER.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the lands were to be fraudulently acquired were, substaintially
as follows: Persons qualified to enter coal lands were to be
procured, who would be furnished by.the conspirators or the
corporation with the means to purchase such- lands upon antecedent agreements that the lands when acquired should be
conveyed as directed by the conspirators, each entryman to
make the application to purchase and the' final entry, and
in so doing to make affidavit, in which among other things it
would be falsely stated that the entryman wi"s making-the
entry for his own use and benefit, and not' directly: oi, itdirectly for the use or benefit of any other person, whereby the
local land.officers would be deceived, etc. Forty-nine separate
overt acts were charged to have been done in furtherance of
the conspiracy. In six of the paragraphs relating' to the commission of overt acts the making of affidavits at purchase concerning six of the eighteen tracts enumerated in the body of
the indictment was alleged, and the affidavits were set forth
verbatim. In each affidavit;' 'besides asserting citizenship, no
previous exercise of a right to purchase, and' stating the character of the lands, the applicant declared' that he had expenided
a small sum (in one instance fifty dollars, inthe otheis fifteen
or twenty dollars) in developing a mine on the particular tract,

that the applicant was in actual possession of the mine, and
that the entry was made for his own use and benefit and not
indirectly for the use or benefit of any' other party. The remaining overt acts concerned the borrowing of the' money to
make the purchases, the furnishing of the money to the entrymen to make the payments, the execution of deeds by the
entrymen, the surveying of certain of'the lands, an affidavit
as to the distance of some of the lands from a completed railroad, etc.
Among other grounds of demurrer to the indictment was
one asserting that no offense was stated therein. The demurrer was sustained "for reasons given on consider'ation of
the first count in case No. 2022, United States of Avieca v.
F. W. Keitel et al." The decision thus made the basis of the
voL. ccxi 26

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

ruling was that reviewed in case No. 286, which we have just
decided, ante, p. 370. As pointed out in the opinion in that
case, the court below, in quashing the indictment there considered, treated it as relating solely to cash entries made under
the provisions of § 2347, Rev. Stat. If the indictment in this
case is also to be so treated, it clearly follows from the ruling
•which we have made in the previous case that the court erred
in sustaining the demurrer. But it is insisted on behalf of the
defendants in error that this case differs from the Keitel case,
because the conspiracy here charged did not concern cash
entries so called, but embraced only entries of coal lands made
by persons who had secured by the opening and developing of
mines and the filing of declaratory statements as provided in
§ 2349 preferential rights of entry. I it be certain that the
court below had construed the indictment as solely relating
to strictly cash entries, then, under the views expressed in the
Keitel case, the contention now made as to the true significance
of the indictment would not be open upon this record. It does.
not, however, follow that the court .below interpreted the indictment here as relating solely to cash entries, because it
referred to the reasons given for quashing the first count of
the indictment in the Keitel case as affording the basis for its
action in sustaining the demurrer to the indictment in this.
We say this because it may well be that the court deemed that
the construction which it gave to the statutes as applied in the
keitel case to cash entries was applicable, even although the
indictment in the case was concerned with preferential entries.
In any event, in applying the ruling which it made in the
Keitel case to this, the court below must have construed the
conspiracy charged in the indictment as relating to all or any
of the following classes: 1, to the procuring of the making
of original cash entries by qualified entrymen in their own
names while secretly acting as agents for a disqualified person;
2, to the procuring of qualified persons to take possession and
improve coal-lands and to file declaratory statemiEnts, with
the ultimate object and purpose of entering the lands, for the

UN ITED STATES v. FORRESTER.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

benefit of disqualified persons; and, 3, to cause persons in
whose favor preference rights to enter coal lands had arisen
to exercise such rights by purchasing the land ostensibly for
themselves but in reality for the benefit of disqualified persons, and to pay for the same with money furnished by those
persons under an obligation to convey the land to them.
The first two of these classes are so obviously controlled by
the construction of the statute which we have just announced
in the Keitel case as to demonstrate beyond contention that the
court below erred in its ruling on the demurrer. The third
class is, we think, also necessarily governed by the construction which we have given the statute in the Keitel case. It
being settled in that case that the prohibition against more
than one entry of coal lands by the same person prohibits a
qualified person from entering such lands apparently for himself, but in fact as the agent of a disqualified person, it follows
that the prohibition embraces an entry made by one through
the procurement and for the benefit of another, although the
entryman had previously initiated a preference right to enter
the land for his own account. The mere preference right obtained as the result of taking the steps'enumerated in §§ 2348,
2349, Rev. Stat., including the filing of the declaratory statement, is, as described in § 2348, simply "a preference right of
entry, under the preceding section, of the mine so opened and
improved." Turning to § 2347, the preceding section referred
to, it will be seen that the entry therein provided for is the
cash entry made by applying to purchase the land, and cotemporaneously therewith making payment for the same,
which entry, as we have decided in the Keitel case, excludes.the
right of a qualified person to make the entry in his own name
with the money and for the benefit of a disqualified person.
When it is considered that the preference which th statute
allows is but a right within the time limited in the statute to
make the entry authorized by § 2347, it cannot be held, without destroying that section, that the obtaining of such mere
right of preference authorized the making, not only of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

entry which the statute permitted, but as well one which the
statute forbade. All the argument which seeks to demonstrate
that the provision which gives the right to be preferred in
making an authorized entry, endows With the authority to
make an illegal because prohibited entry, rests upon a mere
misconception of the nature and character of the right of
preference for which the statute provides. The argument assumes that the right of preference is in and of itself the equivalent of an entry, not controlled by the prohibition which the
statute expresses, when in truth and in fact the right of preference is merely a privilege given to make the statutory entry
of a particular tract of coal land in preference to others. And
the misconceptions upon which the argument rests concerning
the nature and character of the preference right for which the
coal land statutes -provide when duly appreciated at once
demonstrates the irrelevancy of previous rulings of this court
concerning the right of an entryman after entry or after the
doing of acts made by the statute equivalent to an entry to
dispose of the land embraced within the entry.
It follows from the construction which we have given the
statutes in the opinion delivered in the Keitel case, No. 286,
just decided, and for the reasons here stated, that the court
below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the indictment.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity
to this*opinion.

UNITED STATES v. HERR et al.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT

No. 291,

OF COLORADO.

Argued October 22, 23, 26, 1908.-Decided December 14, 1908.

Decided on the authority of United States v. Keitel, ante, p. 370, and
United States v. Forrester, ante, p. 399.
157 Fed. Rep. 396, reversed.

