OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

the purpose only of having the matters in dispute between
the California corporation and the East Side Canal & Irrigation Company determined in the Federal court rather than
in the state court where they were pending and undetermined,
as the Nevada corporation assumed to be the owner of the
property.rights which the California corporation had asserted
against the Canal & Irrigation Company only that it might
have a standing in the Federal court as a litigant in respect
of those rights; and as the California corporation could have
controlled the conduct of the suit brought by the Nevada
corporation at any time after it was brought, and up to the
date of the decree below, and could have required the Nevada,
corporation, in the event of a decree in its favor, to transfer
the benefit of such decree to the California corporation, without any new or valuable consideration, we hold that the suit
was properly dismissed under the fifth section of the act of
1875 as one in which the Nevada corporation was organized
and collusively made plaintiff in the suit in the Federal court
simply for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by that
court.
Decree affirmed.

NORTH AMERICAN COLD STORAGE COMPANY, APPELLANT, v. CITY OF CHICAGO et al.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 28.

Argued November 13, 1908.-Decided December 7, 1908.

A municipal ordinance properly adopted under a power granted by the
state legislature is to be regarded as an act of the State within the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Where the Circuit Court has sustained the demurrer to the complaint
because the case does not involve the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States and has given a certificate to

NORTH AMERICAN STORAGE CO. v. CHICAGO. 307
211 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that effect, and complainant has also appealed directly to this court
under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, if this
court finds that jurisdiction exists, the appeal can be heard without
resort to the certificate and decided on the merits. Giles v. Harris,
189 U. S. 475.
Under its police power the State has the right to seize and destroy food
which is unwholesome and unfit to use, and, in exercising such a
power, due process of law, within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment, does not require previous notice and opportunity to be
heard; the party whose property is destroyed has a right of action
after the act which is not affected by the ex parte condemnation of
the state officers.
Where, under'the police power of the State, the legislature may enact
laws for the destruction of articles prejudicial to public health, it is, to
a great extent, within its discretion as to whether any notice and
hearing shall be given; and the fact that the articles might be kept
for a period does not give the owners a right to notice and hearing.
The right of the State under the police power to destroy food that is
unfit for human consumption is not taken away because some value
may remain in it for other purposes, when it is kept to be sold at
some time as food. Reduction Company v. Sanitary Works, 199 U. S.
306; Gardner v. Michigan, 199 U. S. 325.
The provisions in the cold storage ordinances of Chicago for destruction
of unsafe and unwholesome food, are not unconstitutional as depriving
persons of property without due process of law because they do noi
provide for notice and opportunity to be heard before such destruction, or because the food destroyed might have some value for other
purposes than food.
THE bill of complaint in this case was dismissed by the
Circuit Court for want of jurisdiction, and a certificate of the
Circuit Judge was given that the jurisdiction of the court was
in issue, and the question of jurisdiction alone was certified to
this court, under paragraph 2 of § 5 of the act of March 3,
1891 (26 Stat. 826, chap. 517). The appellant also appealed,
and now asserts its right of appeal under paragraph fiVe of
the same section of the above act, on the ground that the case
involves the construction or application of the Constitution
of the United States, and hence may be brought directly to this
court from the decision of the Circuit Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

211 U. S,

The bill was filed against the city of Chicago and the various individual defendants in their official capacities-Commissioner of Health of the city of Chicago, Secretary of the Department of Health, Chief Food Inspector of the Department
of Health and inspectors of that department, and policemen
of the city-for the purpose of obtaining an injunction under
the circumstances set forth in the bill. It was therein alleged
that the complainant was a cold storage company, having a
cold storage plant in the city'of Chicago; and that it received,
for the purpose of keeping in cold storage, food products and
goods as bailee for hire; that on an average it received $20,000
worth of goods per day, and returned a like amount to its
customers, daily, and that it had on an average in storage about
two million dollars' worth of goods; that it received some
forty-seven barrels of poultry on or about October 2, 1906,
from a wholesale dealer in due course of business, to be kept
by it and returned to such dealer on demand; that the poultry
was, when received, in good condition and wholesome for
human food, and had been so maintained by it in cold storage
from that time, and it would remain so, if undisturbed, for
,three months; that on October 2, 1906, the individual detendants appeared at complainant's place of business and demanded
of it that it forthwith deliver the forty-seven barrels of poultry for the purpose of being by them destroyed, the defendants
alleging that the poultry had become putrid, decayed, poisonous or infected in such a manner as to render it unsafe or unwholesome for human food. The demand was made under
§ 1161 of the Revised Municipal Code of the city of Chicago
for 1905, which reads as follows:
"Every person being the owner, lessee or occupant of any
room, stall, freight house, cold storage house or other place,
other than a private dwelling, where any meat, fish, poultry,
game, vegetables, fruit, or other perishable article adapted or
designed to be used for human food, shall be stored or kept,
whether temporarily or otherwise, and every person having
charge of, or being interested or engaged, whether as principal

NORTH AMERICAN STORAGE CO. v. CHICAGO. 309
211 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

or agent, in the care of or in.respect to the custody or sale of
any such article of food supply, shall put, preserve and keep
such article of food supply in a clean and wholesome condition,
and shall not allow the same, nor any part thereof, to become
putrid, decayed, poisoned, infected, or in any other manner
rendered or made unsafe or unwholesome for human food;
and it shall be the duty of the'meat and food inspectors and
other duly authorized employ~s of the health department of
the city to enter any and all such premises above specified at
any time of any day, and to forthwith seize, condemn and destroy any such putrid, decayed, poisoned and infected food,
which any such inspector may find in and upon said premises."
The complainant refused to deliver up the poultry, on the
ground that the section above quoted of the Municipal Code of
Chicago, in so far as it allows the city or its agents to seize,
condemn or destroy food or other food products, was in conflict with that portion -of the Fourteenth Amendment which
provides that no State shall deprive any person of life, liberty
or property without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
After the.refusal of the complainant to deliver the poultry
the defendants stated that they would not permit the complainant's business to be further conducted until it complied
with the demand of the defendants and delivered up the poultry, nor would they permit any more goods to be received into
the warehouse or taken from the same, and that they would
arrest and imprison any person who attempted to do so, until
complainant complied with their demand and delivered up
the poultry. Since that time the complainant's business has
been stopped and the complainant has been unable to deliver
any goods from its plant or receive the same.
The bill averred that the attempt to seize, condemn and
destroy the poultry, 'without a judicial determination of the
fact that the same was putrid, decayed, poisonous or infected,
was illegal, and it asked that the defendants, and each of them,
might be enjoined from taking or removing the poultry from

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

211 U. S.

the warehouse, or from destroying the same, and that they
also be enjoined from preventing complainant delivering its
goods and receiving from its customers in due course of business
the goods committed to its care for storage.
In an amendment to the bill the complainant further stated
that the defendants are now threatening to summarily destroy,
from time to time, pursuant to the provisions of the abovementioned section, any and all food products which may be
deemed by them, or either of them, as being putrid, decayed,
poisonous .or infected in such manner as to be unfit for human
food, without any judicial determination of the fact that such
food products are in such condition.
The defendants demurred to the bill on the ground, among
others, that the court had no jurisdiction of the action. The
injunction was not issued, but upon argument of the case upon
the demurrer the bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court for
want of jurisdiction, as already stated.
Mr. L. A. Stebbins, with whom Mr. W. H. Sears was on the
brief, for appellant:
If the trial court misconstrued the true definition of the
word jurisdiction and therefore erred in dismissing the case
for want of jurisdiction, then the case is still appealable direct
to this court under par. 6 of § 5 of the Judiciary Act of
i\Iarch 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826. In this event the certificate of the trial court becomes surplusage, and this court

will consider the case upon its merits. Giles v. Harris, 189
U. S.475.
That notice, and an opportunity to be heard, shall precede
the taking of life, liberty or property is a principle absolutely
fuindamental in every system of constitutional government.
Rex v. Cambridge Univ., I Stra. .558, 565; Bradstreet v. Neptune
Ins. Co., 3 Sumr. (U. S.) 600.
The police power of the several States is subject to constitutional limitations. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623;
Booth v. People, 186 Illinois, 43; MeGeehee on Due Process,

NORTH AMERICAN STORAGE CO. v. CHICAGO.
211 U. S.

311

Argument for Appellant.

305; Central of Ga. R. R. Co. v. Murphy, 196 U. S. 194; Reid v.
Colorado, 187 U. S. 137; Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry.
Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.
223.
Section 1161 of the Revised Municipal Code of the city of
Chicago denies due process of law, in that it authorizes the
destruction of property without any provision whatever for
notice to the owner thereof, or to the bailee holding the same
in cold storage, and without any opportunity whatsoever for
any hearing, of any kind or character, before any person or
official upon the question whether the said property is, in fact,
dangerous to the public health. Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; McGeehee
on Due Process of Law, 58, 73; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350;
King v. Hayes, 80 Maine, 206; Edson v. Crangle, 62 Ohio St.
49; Varden V. Mount, 78 Kentucky, 86; Jeck v. Anderson, 57
California, 251; Lowry v. Rainwater, 70 Missouri, 152; Weil v.
Ricord, 24 N. J. Eq. 169; Hutton v. Camden, 39 N. J. L. 122,
132.
There was no emergency calling for the immediate destruction of the property here in question, because the property
could have remained in the cold storage warehouse in an unchanged condition until a hearing could have been had, after
due notice. The court should take judicial notice of the nature
and purpose of cold storage warehouses, as bearing on the
alleged necessity for the destruction of the poultry involved
in this proceeding.
The remedy suggested in the case of Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S. 133, could not be applied in a case like the present, be-

'ause by the destruction of the property all possible evidence
of its character would be destroyed with it, and it would be
impossible for the aggrieved owners to prove the wholesome
character of their goods, and a suit against the offending officers
would therefore be without success.
As decayed food products are still valuable for certain purposes, other than as food, there can be no justification for their

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellees.

211 U. S.

destruction; they are entitled to the same protection under the
Constitution as other property.
Mr. Emil C. Wetten, with whom Mr. George W. Miller and
Mr. Edward J. Brundage were on the brief, for appellees:
It is impossible to frame any definition of police power by
absolutely indicating definite limits to its exercise, but each
case which arises must be decided in accordance with the
merits of the particular case. For the general principles governing the question see 22 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed.,
915; Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, 33; Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100, 128; Parker & Worthington's Public Health &
Safety, 2; Brannon on Fourteenth Aniendment, 167, 175; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623, 664, 665; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659,
667; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 554; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 683; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501,
504.
The ordinance is a valid and proper exercise of police power.
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661, 669; Lawton v. Steele,
152 U. S. 133, 136; Parker & Worthington, 6; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 684; In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, 115;
Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 27, 30; Gardner V.
Michigan, 199 U. S. 325, 332; City of Chicago v. Netcher, 183
Illinois, 104, 111.
Under the police power the summary destruction of unwholesome food products is a proper exercise of official discretion. Freund, Police Power, §§ 520, 521; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 685; People v. Durston, 119 N. Y. 569,
578; Compagnie Francaise &c. v. Board of Health, 186 U. S.
380, 392.
A notice and hearing before the summary abatement of a nuisance is not necessary. McGeehee on Due Process, 372,; People
v. Board of Health, 140 N. Y. 1; S. C., 23 L. R. A. 481; Parker
& Worthington, § 175; Salem v. Eastern R. R. Co., 98 Massachusetts. 431, 443; Miller v. Horton et al., 152 Massachusetts,

NORTH AMERICAN STORAGE CO. v.CHICAGO. 313
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

540, 543; Stone v. Heath, 179 Massachusetts, 385, 386; Health
Department v. Rector, 145 N. Y..32; Lowe v. Conroy, 120 Wisconsin, 151, 155, 156; Daniels v. Homer, 139 N. C. 219; Blue
v. Beach, 80 Am. St. Rep. 212, 218; Egan v. Health Department, 20 Misc. 38; S. C., 45 N. Y. Supp. 325; Pearson et al. v.
Zehr, 138 Illinois, 40, 51; State v. Main, 69 Connecticut, 123,
136, 138; Gaines v. Waters, 64 Arkansas, 609, 612; Booth v.
People, 186 Illinois, 43; 48.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the ordinance in question is to be regarded as
in effect a statute of the State, adopted under a power granted
it by the state legislature, and hence it is an act of the State
within the Fourteenth Amendment. New Orleans v. Sugar Co.,
125 U. S: 18, 31.
The Circuit Court held that the defendants being sued in
their official capacities could not be held for acts or threats
which they had no power or authority under the ordinance to
make or perform; that, although it was alleged that the defendants acted under the provisions of the section of the code
already quoted, yet that under no possible construction of
that ordinance could the defendants claim the right to the
entire stoppage of the business of the complainant in storing
admittedly wholesome articles of food, so that it would seem
that these acts were mere trespasses, and plainly without the
sanction of the ordinance; as to these acts, therefore, the
remedy was to be pursued in the state courts, there being no
constitutional question involved necessary to give the court
jurisdiction.
The court further held that the allegation that the intention
to seize and destroy. the poultry without any. judicial determination as to the fact of its being unfit for food was in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, could not be sustained;
that such Amendment did not impair the police power of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

State, and that the ordinance was valid and not in violation
of that Amendment. The demurrer was therefore sustained
and the bill dismissed, as stated by the court, for want of jurisdiction.
We think there was jurisdiction and that it was error for the
court to dismiss the bill on that ground. The court seems to
have proceeded upon the theory that, as the complainant's
assertion of jurisdiction was based upon an alleged Federal
question which was not well founded, there was no jurisdiction.
In this we think that 'the court erred. The bill contained a
plain averment that the ordinance in question violated the
Fourteenth Amendment, because it provided for no notice to
the complainant or opportunity for a hearing before the seizure
and destruction of the food. A constitutional question was
thus presented to the court, over which it had jurisdiction,
and it was bound to decide the same on its merits. If a question of jurisdiction alone were involved, the decree of dismissal
would have to be reversed. The complainant, however, has,
in addition to procuring the certificate of the court as to the
reason for its action, also appealed from the decree of dismissal
directly to this court under the fifth paragraph of § 5 of the
act of 189].. Such appeal can be heard without resort to the
certificate and may be decided on its merits. Giles v. Harris,
189 U. S. 475, 486. A constitutional question being involved,
an appeal may be taken directly to this court from the Circuit Court.
Holding there was jurisdiction in the-court below, we come
to the merits of the case. The action of the defendants, which
is admitted by the demurrer, in refusing to permit the complainant to carry on its ordinary business until it delivered the
poultry, would seem to have been arbitrary and wholly indefensible. Counsel for the complainant, however, for the
purpose of obtaining a decision in regard to the constitutional
question as to the right to seize and destroy property without
a prior hearing, states that he will lay no stress here upon that
portion of the bill which alleges .the unlawful and forcible

NORTH AMERICAN STORAGE CO. v.CHICAGO. 315
211 U. S.

Opinion of the ,Court.

taking possession of complainant's business by the defendants.
He states in his brief as follows:
"There is but one question in this case, and that question is,
Is section 1161 of the Revised Municipal Code of Chicago in
conflict with the due process of law provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, in this, that it does not provide for notice
and an opportunity to be heard before the destruction of the
food products therein referred to? If there is no such conflict
the ordinance is valid for the purposes of Federal jurisdiction;
the bill states no cause of action, and was properly dismissed,
as there is no claim of any such diversity of citizenship as would
confer jurisdiction upon the Federal court, and no such jurisdiction exists, except b.y reason of the claim, that such ordinance
is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment."
The general power of the State to legislate upon the subject
embraced in the above ordinance of the city of Chicago, counsel does not deny. See Reduction Company v. Sanitary Works,
199 U. S. 306, 318. Nor does he deny the right to seize and
destroy unwholesome or putrid food, provided that notice and
opportunity to be heard be given the owner or custodian of
the prbperty before it is destroyed. We are of opinion, however, that provision for a hearing before seizure and condemnation and destruction of food which is unwholesome and unfit
for use, is not necessary. The right to so seize is based upon
the right and duty of the State to protect and guard, as far '
as possible, the lives and health of its inhabitants, and that it is
proper to provide that food which is unfit for human consumption should be summarily seized and destroyed to prevent the danger which would arise from eating it. The right
to so seize and destroy is, of course, based upon the fact that
the food is not fit to be eaten. Food that is in such a condition,
if kept for sale or in danger of being sold, is in itself a nuisance,
and a nuisance of the most dangerous kind, involving, as it
does, the health, if not the lives, of persons who may eat it.
A determination on the part of the seizing officers that food is
in an unfit condition to be eaten is not a decision which con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

eludes the owner. The ex parte finding of the health officers
as to the fact is not in any way binding upon those who own
or claim the right to sell the food. If a party cannot get his
hearing in advance of the seizure and destruction he has the
right to have it afterward, which right may be claimed upon
the trial in an action brought for the destruction of his property, and in that action those who destroyed it can only successfully defend if the jury shall find the fact of unwholesomeness as claimed by them. The often cited case of Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133, substantially holds this. By the second
section of an act of the legislature of the State of New York
of 1880 it was provided that any "net

.

.

.

for capturing

fish which was floated upon the water or found, or maintained
in any of the waters of the State," in violation of the statutes
of the State for the protection of fish, was a public nuisance,
and could be abated and summarily destroyed, and that no
action for damages should lie or be maintained against any
person for or on account of seizing or destroying such nets.
Nets of the kind mentioned in that section were taken and destroyed by.the defendant, and the owner commenced action
against him to recover damages for such destruction. That
portion of the section which provided that no action for damages should lie was applicable only to a case where the seizure
or destruction had been of a nature amounting to a violation
of the statute, and of course did not preclude an action against
the person making a seizure if not made of a -net which was
illegally maintained. The seizure and destruction were justified by the defendant in the action, and such justification was
allowed in the state courts (119 N. Y. 226) and in this court.
Mr. Justice Brown, in delivering the opinion of this court, said:
"Nor is a person whose property is seized under the act in
question without his legal remedy. If in fact his property has
been used in violation of the act, he has no just reason to complain; if not, he may replevy his nets from the officer seizing
them, or. if they have been destroyed, may have his action
for their value. In such cases the burden would be upon the

NORTH AMERICAN STORAGE CO. v. CHICAGO. 317
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant to prove a justification under the statute. As was
said by the Supreme Court of New Jersey, in a similar case
(Am. Print Works v. Lawrence, 21 N. J. Law, 248, 259): 'The
party is not, in point of fact, deprived of a trial by jury.
Indeed it is scarcely possible that any actual injustice could
be done in the practical administration of the act."
The statute in' the above case had 'not provided
for any
hearing of the question of violation of its provisions and this
court held that the owner of the nets would not be bound by
the determination of the officers who destroyed them, but
might question the fact by an action in a judicial proceeding
in a court of justice. The statute was held valid, although it
did not provide for notice or hearing. And so in People &c. v.
Board of Health, 140 N. Y. 1, the question arose in a proceeding by certiorari, affirming the proceedings of the board of
health of the city of Yonkers, by which certain dams upon the
Nepperhan River were determined to be nuisances and ordered
to be removed. The court held that the acts under which the
dams were removed did not give a hearing in express terms
nor could the right to a hearing be implied from any language
used in them, but that they were valid without such provision,
because they did not make the determination of the board
of health final and conclusive on the owners of the premises
wherein the nuisances were allowed to exist; that before such
a final and conclusive determination could be made, resulting
in the destruction of property, the imposition of penalties
and criminal punishments, the parties proceeded against must
have a hearing, not as a matter of favor, but as a matter of
right, and the right to a hearing must be found in the acts;
that if the decisions of these boards were final and conclusive,
even after a hearing, the citizen would in many cases hold his
property subject to the judgments of men holding ephemeral
positions in municipal bodies and boards of health, frequently
uneducated and generally unfitted to discharge grave judicial
functions. It was said that boards of health under the acts
referred to could not, as to any existing state of facts, by their

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

determination make that a nuisance which was not in fact a
nuisance; that they had no jurisdiction to make any order or
ordinance abating an alleged nuisance unless there were in
fact a nuisance; that it was the actual existence of a nuisance
which gave them jurisdiction to act. There being no provision
for a hearing the acts were not void nevertheless, but the owner
had the right to bring his action at common law against all
the persons engaged in the abatement of the nuisance to recover his damages, and thus he would have due process of
law; and if he could show that the alleged nuisance did not in
fact exist he will recover judgment, notwithstanding the ordinance of the board of health under which the destruction
took place.
The same principle has been decided by the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts. The case of The City of Salem v.
Eastern R. Co., 98 Massachusetts, 431, was an action brought
to recover moneys spent by the city to drain certain dams and
ponds declared by the board of health to be a nuisance. The
court held that in a suit to recover such expenses incurred in
removing a nuisance, when prosecuted against a party on the
ground that he caused the same, but who was not heard, and
had no opportunity to be heard upon the questions before the
board of health, such party is not.concluded in the findings
or adjudications of that board, and may contest all the facts
upon which his liability is sought to be established.
Miller v. Horton, 152 Massachusetts, 540, is in principle like
the case before us. It was an action brought for killing the
plaintiff's horse. The defendants admitted the killing but
justified the act under an order of the board of health, which
declared that the horse had the glanders, and (lirected it to
be killed. The court held that the decision of the board of
health was not conclusive as to whether or not the horse was
(lisease(], and said that: "Of course there cannot be a trial by
jury before killing an animal supposed to have a contagious
disease, and we assume that the legislature may authorize its
destruction in such emergencies without a hearing beforehand.

NORTH AMERICAN STORAGE CO. v. CHICAGO. 319
21i U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But it does not follow that it can throw the loss upon the
owner without a hearing. If he cannot be heard beforehand
he may be heard afterward. The statute may provide for
paying him -in case it should appear that his property was not
what the legislature had declared to be a nuisance and may
give him his hearing in that way. If it does not do so, the
statute may leave those who act under it to proceed at their
peril, and the owner gets his hearing in an action against them."
And in Stone v. Heath- 179 Massachusetts, 385, the court
held that under the statute it had no power to restrain the
board of health from abating nuisances and from instituting
proceedings against plaintiff on account of his failure to abate
them, as provided for in the statute, because the board of
health had adjudged that a nuisance existed and had ordered
it to be abated by the plaintiff, yet still the question, "whether
there was a nuisance, or whether, if there was, it was maintained
by the one charged therewith might be litigated by such parties in proceedings instituted against them to recover the expenses of the abatement, or may be litigated by the parties
whose property has been injured or destroyed in proceedings
instituted by them to recover for such loss or damage, and
may also be litigated by parties charged with causing or maintaining a nuisance in proceedings instituted against them for
neglect or refusal to comply with the orders of the board of
health directing them to abate the same." In that way they
had a hearing and could recover or defend in case there was
no nuisance.
See also Lowe v. Conroy, 120 Wisconsin, 151; Pearson v.
Zehr, 138 Illinois, 48; State v. Main, 69 Connecticut, 123;
Gaines v. Waters, 64 Arkansas, 609, 612, where the same principle is announced.
Complainant, however, contends that there was no emergency requiring speedy action for the destruction of the poultry in order to protect the public health from danger resulting
from consumption of such poultry. It is said that the food was
in cold storage, and that it would continue in the same con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

dition it then was for three months, if properly stored, and
that therefore the defendants had ample time in which to give
notice to complainant or the owner and have a hearing of the
question as to the condition of the poultry, and as the ordinance
provided for no hearing, it was void. But we think this is not
required. 'The power of the legislature to enact laws in relation to the public health being conceded, as it must be, it is
to a great extent within legislative discretion as to whether
any hearing need be given before the destruction of unwholesome food which is unfit for human consumption. If a hearing
were to be always necessary, even under the circumstances
of this case, the question at once arises as to what is to be done
with the food in the meantime. Is it to remain with the cold
storage compapy, and if so under what security that it will not
be removed? To be sure that it will not be removed during
the time necessary for the hearing, which might frequently be
indefinitely prolonged, some guard would probably have to
be placed over the subject-matter of investigation, which
would involve expense, and might not even then prove effectual.
What is the emergency which would render a hearing unnecessary? We think when the question is one regarding the destruction of food which is not fit for human use the emergency
must be one which would fairly appeal to the reasonable discretion of the legislature as to the necessity for a prior hearing,
and in that case its decision would not be a subject for review
by the courts. As the owner of the food or its custodian is
amply protected against the party seizing the food, who must
in a subsequent action against- him show as a fact that it was
within the §tatute, we think that due process of law is not
denied the owner or custodian by the destruction of the food
alleged to be unwholesome and unfit for human food without
a preliminary hearing. The cases cited by the complainant
do not run counter to those we have above referred to.
Even if it be a fact that some value may remain for certain
purposes in food that is unfit for human consumption, the
right to destroy it is not on that account taken away. The

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

small value that might remain in said food is a mere incident,
and furnishes no defense to its destruction when it is plainly
kept to be sold at some time as food. Reduction Company v.
Sanitary Works, 199 U. S. 306-322; Gardner v. Michigan, 199
U. S. 325, 331.
The decree of the court below is modified by striking out the
ground for dismissal of the bill as being for want of jurisdiction, and, as modified, is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER dissents.

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THP
HAWAII.

TERRITORY

OF

No. 47. Argued October 29, 30, 1908.-Decided December 7, 1908.
Executors, parties to the action but who have not appealed, cannot
be heard against a decree construing the will and determining the
validity of trusts on an appeal taken by other parties.
The common law having been made applicable by statute in Hawaii,
and there being no other statute regulating the subject, trusts must
be valid as at common law; and the utmost extent of a testamentary
trust is limited by ascertained lives in being at the time of its creation, selected by the testator but not necessarily having an interest
in the property, and for twenty-one years after the death of the
last survivor which must be ascertainable by reasonable evidence.
The tedtator's intent is to be sought and carried out if not illegal; and
although the persons whose lives are to limit a trust may not actually
be so designated in the will it is sufficient if a class or number of lives
are referred to so as to plainly indicate that they were selected for
that purpose.
A testamentary trust to continue as long as possible "under the statute"
is not void, because in Hawaii there is no statute and the common
VOL. CCXI-21

