OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

tion of coal mines of ordinary magnitude would be required
in such cases. There was clearly reasonable foundation for
discrimination here."
This language is equally apposite in the present case. There
is no attempt at unjust or unreasonable discrimination. The
law is alike applicable to all mines in the State employing more
than ten men underground. It may be presumed to practi'cally regulate the industry when conducted on any considerable
scale. We cannot say that there was no' reason for exempting
from its provisions mines so small as to be in the experimental
or formative state and affecting but few men, and not requiring regulation in the interest of the public health, safety or
welfare. We cannot hold, therefore, that this law is so palpably
in violation of the constifutional rights involved as to require
us, in the exercise of the right of judicial review, to reverse the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas, which has affirmed
its validity. The judgment of that court is
Affirmed.
Dissenting: MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE PECK-

HAM.

HARDAWAY. v. NATIONAL SURETY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 44.

Argued December .8, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

One who furnishes money and superintends the completion of work
under a government contract is not a subcontractor within the
meaning of the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, and is not
entitled to recover a deficit from the surety; and where there is no
liability of the contractor there can be no recovery against the
surety on the contractor's bond.
The right of the surety on a bond for performance of a contract given
under the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, to be subro-

HARDAWAY v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gated to -the contractor's claim for balances due from the Government, is superior to that of one advancing money to the contractor on
assignment of such claim. PrairieState Bank v. United States, 164
U. S. 227.

150 Fed. Rep. 465, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Temple Bodley and Mr. John Bryce Baskin, with whom
Mr. J. Manly Foster and Mr. W. B. Oliver were on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. William W. Watts and Mr. Henry Fitts, with whom
Mr. William J. Grfti~n was on the'brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirming a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Kentucky, whereby the appellants Hardaway and Prowell were
denied the right to recover against'the appellee, the National
Surety Company, as surety for the faithful performance of a
certain contract entered into on September 28, 1899, between
the United States and a firm of contractors composed of James
E. Willard, Charles L. Cornwell and Joseph Coyne, doing busi-.
ness as Willard & Cornwell. The contract was for the con-.
struction of a lock and dam No. 4, in the Black Warrior River,
near Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Bond was given in accordance with
the requirements of the act of Congress approved August 13,
1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, in order to secure the faithful performance of the contract.
The contract has been kept so far as the United States is
concerned, and the surety is relieved from obligation in that
respect. The contention in this case involves the construction
and application of that condition of the bond, which requires

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S..

the contractors to "promptly make full payments to all persons supplying them labor or materials in the prosecution of
the work, provided for in said contract."
The question for consideration here is, under the circum'stances of the case can Hardaway and Prowell recover upon
the bond on their claim as for labor done and material furnished within the terms thereof? The record discloses that the
original contractors carried on the work until February 5, 1901,
when they made an agreement between themselves and Coyne,
by which agreement Coyne was to pay the debts of the firm,
to make all future purchases in his own name, and to receive
all profits from the contract. After February 5, 1901, Coyne
carried on the work. The Government made the checks payable to Willard and Cornwell as before, in accordance with the
terms of the contract. OnJune 2, 1903, Coyne having become
f!4ancially unable :to complete the contract, made a contract
in writing with H4rdaway and Prowell, which we shall hereinafter set out in full, concerning the work.
Owing to freshets and washouts, as iscontended by appellantg, it became necessary to do over much of the work, and
after kits completion appellants made a claim for $32,757.34,
interest included t March 1, 1906, .and included therein
$7,556, being fifteen per cent of the cost expended on the
contract with Coyne.
On Octpber ?4, 1904, the National Surety Company, appellee, filed a bill inthe United States court at Louisville, averring the insolvAncy of the contractors, and that there would
be a loss for lai~or. and material which, it would be compelled
to pay as surety on the bond, asking for an injunction and
the appointment of a receiver. On November 8, 1904, an
order was made referring the case to a special master, and
providing Tnat parties having claims for labor and materials
might prove the same with the right to contest them, and to
take the proofs-thereof as in equity cases. The order provided that appellee, the surety company, should pay into
court, in satisfaction of the claims and costs of action, such a

HARDAWAY v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
.211 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

sum as might be required after the Government payments
were exhausted.
The claim of Hardaway and Prow ell was filed.. A special
master allowed the claim. Upon error the Circuit Court disallowed the -same, and upon appeal .to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit the decree was affirmed. 150
Fed. Rep. 465; S. C., 80C. C. A. 283. The case then came here.
The case turns upon the construction of the contract between Coyne and Hardavay and Prowell. The contract reads
as follows:
"State of Alabama, Tuscaloosa County:
"This contract, made this 2nd day of June, 1903, by and
between B. H. Hardaway and R. P. Prowell, hereinafter called
Hardaway & Prowell, as parties of the first part,-and Joseph
Coyne, as party of the second part, witnesseth:
"That, whereas, Willard & Cornwell, & firm composed of
J. E. Willard, C. R. Cornwell and the said Joseph Coyne,
did, heretofore, on to-wit, the -

day of

-,

1899, enter into

a contract with the United States for the. construction of
lock No. 4 in the Black Warrior River above Tuscaloosa,
Alabama, and whereas, shortly after the beginning of the
work upon said lock the said Joseph Coyne, by an arrangement between him and his cdpartners, undertook to comprete
and finish said lock according to the specifications of the contract of said firm with' the United States, and in consideration
.of such an undertaking acquired the beneficial interest of said
firm in said contract and was to receive all amounts paid by
the United States in consideration of such contract, and
whereas, said lock' is still uncompleted, and the. said Joseph
Coyne cannot, on account of his inability to procure the nec.essary financial aid, and on account of the disorganization of
his labor forces and for various and sundry other reasons,
complete and finish the said work in accordani'c with the said
contract, hnd whereas said contract is a valued asset to the
said Joseph Coyne if the said work can be prosecuted to its

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

completion under the terms of said contract, there being held
in reserve by the Government under the terms of said contract about $8,300.00, which has already been earned by said
Coyne, and whereas by reason of his said inability to finish
said work%the said contract is about to be forfeited, and the
said Coyne is in imminent danger of losing, not only what
profits may be made upon the completion of the work, but
the entire reserve fund also retained by the Government, and'
whereas the said Joseph Coyne for the purpose. of'preventing
the forfeiture of said contract, has made overtures to the said
Hardaway & Prowell to take up said work and complete it,
and the said Hardaway-& Prowell have' agreed to do so upon
the terms and stipulations hereinafter set forth; now, therefore,
"1. The said Hardaway &..Prowell do hereby undertake
and agree with the said Joseph Coyne to superintend the completion of the said lock and dam No. 4 and to furnish the necessary finances for the completion thereof, and to 'put in charge
of said work a competent superintendent and to properly
organize the work for an energetic prosecution thereof to completion, for which services they are to receive an agreed compensation of 15 per cent upon the iotal cost of completing
said contract, which total cost shall be construed to include
all amounts necessarily expended and expenses 'incurred by
Hardaway & Prowell in the completion of said work and all
aInunts necessarily paid and expenses incurred by them to
effect a settlement with and an acceptance of said lock and
dam by the United States.
"2. The 'said Joseph Coyne agrees to the above compensation for Hardaway'& -Prowell and further agrees to turn over
to them entire charge of the completion of said work, and not
to interfere with them in any way in the prosecution of said
work to completion, and further agrees to turn over to the said
Hardaway & Prowell the entire outfit of machinery, tools, etc.,
which he now has at said lock and dam and the quarries where
he is getting stones and to give the use of the same to them for
the completion of said work free of any charge.

HARDAWAY v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
211 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

"3. The said Joseph Coyne further agrees to have all checks
for each estimate upon said work forwarded by the Government to the said 'Hardav~ay &'Prowell and to properly endorse
such checks so that they may be collected by Hardaway &
Prowell.
"4. It is further agreed by all parties hereto that out of the
proceeds of the checks referred to in the next foregoing paragraph the obligations shall be paid preferentially in the following order:
"1: The compensation of the said Hardaway & Prowell as
herein agreed for their services.
"2. All. moneys advanced by Hardaway & Prowell and used
in the prosecution of said work.
"3. All debts necessarily incurred by the said. Hardaway &
Prowell for the prosecutioA of said work other than debts for
labor and material.
"4. All debts incurred by said Hardaway & Prowell for labor and material or moneys advanced by them in payment for
labor or material debts.
"5. The said Joseph Coyne, for the completion of said
work and for the securing to the said Hardaway & Prowell all
amounts that they shall have to pay on whatever account for
the completion 'of said lock and dam and for a settlement with
the United States and acceptance of said lock .and dam by the
proper authorities of the government, does hereby assign and
set over to the said Hardaway & Prowell all his interest in
the amount, aggregating as aforesaid about $8,300, retained
and now held in reserve by the oxovernment under the said
contract for the building of said lock and dam, .which shall
the following"
be applied by the said Hardaway & Prowell in
order:
"1. To the payment of all debts for labor and material incurred in the building of said lock and dam..
"2. Any balance that may be due to said Hardaway &
Prowell for their compensation under this contract.
"3. All other necessary debts incurred in the proseciition

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

of the said work by Hardaway & Prowell and all amounts
including expenses which they shall have to pay in order to
effect a Settlenent with the Government and acceptance by
it of saidlock and dam.
"4. Any balance to be paid to the said Joseph Coyne.
"6. It is understood and agreed by all parties hereto that
if the said Joseph Coyne should at any time fail or be unable
to turn over to the said Hardaway & Prowell the checks for
.estimates on said work properly endorsed so that Hardaway
& Prowell can Collect them or should fail to secure the collection of them by the said--ardaway & Prowell then the said
Hardaway & Prowell shall in that event have the option of
annulling said contract and stopping work without notice to
the said Joseph Coyne, or to any other parties whomsoever,
but in said event the said*Hardaway & Prowell shall have a
claim against the said Joseph Coyne for all moneys furnished
by them and .expenses incurred by them upon any account
whatsoever in the prosecution of said work, and which shall
not have been repaid to them, and for all compensation earned
under this contract and not paid to them, and such claim shall
be due and payable at once upon their termination of the contract.

/

"In witness whereof the said parties of the first and second
parts have hereunder set their hands and seals in duplicate,
this the day and year first above written.
"B. H. HARDAWAY.
"R. P. PROWELL.

"Attest: C. B. VERNER.

"JOSPPH CONE."

It is said that the master sustained the claim of Hardaway
and Prowell upon authority of the case of Hill V. Surety Co.,
.200 U. -S. 197. In that case this court held. that the obligation
of a bond similar to, the :one here in .suit, when construed in
the light of the statute requiring its execution, and looking to
the protection of those who .supply labor and materials provided for in the original contract, was broad enough to in-

.HARDAWAY v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

elude laborers who had performed work for a subcontractor
who furnished labor or material which the original contractor
had obligated himself to furnish. It was held that in such a
case the original contractor who employed a subcontractor
who bought materials or hired labor with which to carry out
and fulfill the engagement of the original contract for the construction of a public building was thereby supplied with materials and labor for the fulfillment of his contract as effectually
as if he had directly hired the labor or bought the materials.
We are unable to see how that case controls the one at bar;
nor can we reach the conclusion that Hardaway and Prowell
were subcontractors furnishing labor or materials to the original contractor, or furnishing such labor or materials to subcontractors which enabled the original contract to be fulfilled,
thereby bringing themselves within the principles of the
Hill case. As we read this contract, Hardaway and Prowell,
in view of Coyne's financial, and other difficulties, undertook
to do certain things in relation thereto. They undertook to
superintend the completion of the lock and dam, and to that
end to furnish the necessary finances for the completion of the
work; for this they were to receive an agreed. percentage upon
the total cost upon the completion of the contract.
Coyne, on his part, agreed that such compensation should
be paid, and agreed to turn over the charge of the work to
Hardaway and Prowell and not to inte!fere therewith in any
way, and to give them. the use of his outfit and tools, etc., and
the quarries from which he was taking stone for the construction of the lock and dam. He agreed to have the checks given
by the Government, upon estimates, forwarded to Hardaway
and Prowell, and to properly indorse such checks so as to make
them collectible by them.
The manner in which Hardaway and Prowell should distribute the money received from such checks is specifically
provided in paragraph 4 of the contract. By the fifth paragraph Coyne assigned to Hardaway and Prowell for the conipletion of the work, and as security to Hardaway and Prowell,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

for the amount which they should have to pay on all accounts
for the completion of the work and for a settlement with the
United States and acceptance of said lock and dam by the
proper authorities, all of his interest in $8,300 retained and
held in reserve by the Government under the contract, which
was to be applied by Hardaway and Prowell, 1st, for the payments of debts for labor and materials; 2d, any balances due
to Hardaway and Prowell for their compensation under the
contract; 3d, all other necessary debts incurred in the prosecution of the work by Hardaway and Prowell and all. amounts
which they shall be obliged to pay in order to effect a settlement with the Government and acceptance by it of said lock
and dam; 4th, any balance to go to Coyne.
The sixth paragraph of the contract msae provision for the
possibility that Hardaway and Prowell should not receive
payment of the checks coming from the Government, in which
event they should have the right, at their option, of annulling
the contract and stopping the work. In that contingency they
should have a claim against Coyne for money furnished by
them on account of the prosecution of the work and for all
.compensation earned under the contract.
Hardaway and Prowell bound themselves to furnish tuperintendence and to furnish the money to complete the work
which Coyne had undertaken to do. These things were all
that Hardaway and Prowell undertook to do; they were not
subcontractors in our view who undertake to furnish labor and
materials upon a contract with the original contractor. The
extent of the agreement was to furnish funds to complete the
work and to superintend it. For this they were to be paid by
the assignment of the reserve funds in the hands of the Government and the checks or payments under the original contract. There was no uridertakiig on the part of the surety
company that the contract should be profitable to its principal
or to any other substituted in the contract by assignment or
otherwise. The surety did agree by the terms of the bond that
the original contractors should make full payment to all per-

HARDAWAY v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sons supplying them with labor and materials in the prosecution of the work. This was for the protection of the subcontractors and others supplying such labor and materials for the
fulfillment of the original agreement, as we held in the HUll
case.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that Coyne
entered into no agreement to pay Hardaway and Prowell
beyond the assignment of the checks from the Government
and the assignment of the reserved $8,300. This is shown by
the terms of the agreement read in the light of the circu mstances surrounding the parties at the time the contract was
made. Coyne had failed to complete the contract and was
financially embarrassed. Hardaway and Prowell looked -to
the assignment of the reserve fund from Coyne and the payments from the Government for their commissions, not to the
personal liability of Coyne. Coyne was to be personally liable
only in the event that Hardaway and Prowell should fail to
realize on the Government checks, as provided in paragraph 6
of the contract. As the claim of Hardaway and Prowell set'
up in this case must be worked out against the surety because
of the liability of the principal in the bond to them, and as
there is no such liability either from Willard and Cornwell
or Coyne to them, there can be no recovery against the surety
on the bond.
Nor do we think that Hardaway and Prowell can complain
of the disposition of the $8,300 (exactly $8,161.75), reserved
payments under the contract. This sum was paid into court
for work done previous to the making of the contract of June 2,
1903. 80 C. C. A. 291. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that
this sum, thus paid into court, should be credited upon the
$13,261.76, which the surety company had been directed to
pay into court for the satisfaction of labor claims which had
been proved and allowed in the case. The right of the surety
to be subrogated had attached to the fund and was superior
to any rights which Hardaway and Prowell had as assignees
of Coyne. PrairieState Bank v. United States, 164 U. S. 227.
VOL. ccx-36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff- in Error.

211 U. S.

We think ths was the correct view. We find no error in the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the same is

Affirmed.

EDWARD MURPHY, 2d, v. JOHN HOFMAN COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 33.

Argued December 1, 2, 1908.-Decided January 4, 190g.

Where the bankruptcy court has the actual'possession of property, the
title to which is in dispute, that property is withdrawn from the
jurisdiction of other courts, and, independently of any jurisdiction
conferred by statute, the bankruptcy court, as is the case with
other Federal and state courts, has ancillary jurisdiction to hear
and determirie all questions respecting-such title; and such jurisdiction cannot be disturbed by,the process of any other court. Wabash
Railroad v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38.
Where one who has no other connection with the property is appointed
receiver his possession is that of the court and not that of an individual.
The seizure of goods in the possession of a receiver in bankruptcy, under
a writ of replevin issiued by a state court against the receiver, individually, held in this case to be an unlawful invasion of theposse.sion of the bankruptcy dourt.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Herbert D. Bailey for plaintiff in error:
The bankrupt's actual possession .of this property at the
inception of the bankruptcy. proceedings, and its delivery
thereof to the, receiver, as a part of its property, rendered it
the-duty of the receiver not only to take but to hold the propcrty pending an order of the Federal court as to its disposition.
In re Schermerhorn, 16 Am. B. R. 507; White v. Schloerb, 178
U. S. 542; S. C., 4 Am. B. R. 178; Sharpe v. Doyle, 102 U. S.

