FITCHIE v. BROWN.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

small value that might remain in said food is a mere incident,
and furnishes no defense to its destruction when it is plainly
kept to be sold at some time as food. Reduction Company v.
Sanitary Works, 199 U. S. 306-322; Gardner v. Michigan, 199
U. S. 325, 331.
The decree of the court below is modified by striking out the
ground for dismissal of the bill as being for want of jurisdiction, and, as modified, is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER dissents.

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THP
HAWAII.

TERRITORY

OF

No. 47. Argued October 29, 30, 1908.-Decided December 7, 1908.
Executors, parties to the action but who have not appealed, cannot
be heard against a decree construing the will and determining the
validity of trusts on an appeal taken by other parties.
The common law having been made applicable by statute in Hawaii,
and there being no other statute regulating the subject, trusts must
be valid as at common law; and the utmost extent of a testamentary
trust is limited by ascertained lives in being at the time of its creation, selected by the testator but not necessarily having an interest
in the property, and for twenty-one years after the death of the
last survivor which must be ascertainable by reasonable evidence.
The tedtator's intent is to be sought and carried out if not illegal; and
although the persons whose lives are to limit a trust may not actually
be so designated in the will it is sufficient if a class or number of lives
are referred to so as to plainly indicate that they were selected for
that purpose.
A testamentary trust to continue as long as possible "under the statute"
is not void, because in Hawaii there is no statute and the common
VOL. CCXI-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

211 U. S.

law is applicable; the testator's intent being evident that the trust
was to continue as long as legally possible.
The fact that the class limiting the duration of a common-law trust is
large-in this case over forty-does not render it void if it is otherwise legal.
A trust created for as long a period under the statute as possible he/d
legal at common law and to be limited by the lives of annuitants
mentioned in the will and evidently intended, although not so specified, by the testator as being the lives selected for the duration of the
trust and twenty-one years after the death of the last survivor.
Where there are a numler of annuitants constituting a class selected
to determine the duration of a common-law trust, the fact that there
is a corporation among them will not render the trust illegal, as
creating a perpetuity; the annuity to the corporation will cease on
the expiration of the trust twenty-one years after the death of the
last surviving individual annuitant.
In this case, surplus income, after paying specified annuities, should be
accumulated until the termination of the trust and then distributed
as part of the estate to those entitled thereto under the will.
Whether or not a trustee named in a will can act as such does not
affect the validity of the will; in case he cannot act the court can
appoint a trustee to carry out the provisions of the trust.
18 Hawaii, 52, affirmed.

THE parties to this proceeding agreed upon a case, without
action, containing the facts upon which a controversy had
arisen between them, and submitted the same to the Supreme

Court of the Territory of Hawaii, conformably to the laws of
that Territory.
The court heard the case and made a decree therein, from
which those named above as plaintiffs in the submission have

appealed to this court, but the defendant executors have not

appealed.
From the agreed statement of facts contained in the sub-

mission it appears that one George Galbraith, who died at
Honolulu on the fifth of November, 1904, while domiciled in
the Territory of Hawaii, left a will, which has been duly ad-

mitted to probate in Hawaii, disposing of an estate of about
$121,000 in personal property and $128,000 in real estate in
Hawaii, and a small amount of real estate in Ireland.

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
211 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The will gave some pecuniary legacies to a number of people,
relatives and friends, and then provided that"The balance, residue or remainder of my estate is to be
placed in trust for as long a period as is legally possible, the
termination or ending of said trust to take place when the law
requires it under the statute.
"I hereby nominate and appoint the Hawaiian Trust Company, Limited, of Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii, as trustee
of the aforesaid balance, residue or remainder of my estate
and they are to devote sufficient of the annual income derived
from the same toward paying the following annuities, which
are to be free and clear of all taxes, unto the following persons
mentioned, namely," [here follow the names of the annuitants
and the amounts which they arc to receive yearly].
"All of the foregoing for life, and then to their heirs, save
and excepted the last three persons, namely, Josie Fink, Emma
Douglass and Matilda Bailey, who are to receive only their life
annuities and at their death all their interests to cease.
"On the final ending and distribution of the trust, the trust
fund to be divided equally amongst those persons entitled at
that time to the aforementioned annuities." .
On the same day the testator made a codicil, in which he
made some changes of the annuities, substituting for the annuity given to the seven children of Hugh Galbraith, of $2,520
annually, an annuity to the same children of $2,100 yearly for
life, and then to their heirs.
The testator also bequeathed by the codicil an annuity to
the Kona Orphanage of Kona of $100 yearly, "under the same
conditions as the other annuitants mentioned, save and excepted, Hugh Galbraith, Josie Fink, Emma Douglass, and
Matilda Bailey."
Upon the above facts several questions arose and were submitted to the court below, among them one which relates to
the validity of the trust and another to the disposition of the
surplus income remaining after the payments to the annuitants
mentioned in the will.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellants.

211 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Hawaii ordered a decree to be entered,
which declared that the will of George Galbraith established
a valid trust, and that the Hawaiian Trust Company, Limited,
a corporation, the trustee named in the will, was legally authorized to administer the trust; that under the trust it was
the duty of the trustee to pay out of the income of the trust
property the annuities payable by the provisions of the will to
the four persons named therein for their respective lives and
for the payment of the other annuities payable by the will to
the other annuitants 'therein named for and during their respective lives, and thereafter to pay the same to their heirs
respectively until the end of twenty-one years after the death
of the last survivor of all the said annuitants, and during the
same period of time to pay to the Kona Orphanage the annuity
directed in the will, and at the end of said twenty-one years
to divide the trust fund and its accumulated a-id unapplied
income as required by the direction in that behalf contained
in the will.
Mr. Aldis B. Broume, with whom Mr. W. L. Stanley, Mr.
Henry Holmes and Mr. Alexander Britton were on the brief,
for appellants:
The trust for final distribution- "on the final ending and
distribution of the trust, the trust fund to be divided equally
amongst those persons entitled at that time to the aforementioned annuities "-is invalid because there is no direction
in the will as to when it iAto take place, to which effect can
be given.
The words in question would not have the effect of fixing
the time for the termination of the annuities and the payment
over of the corpus at the end of twenty-one years after lives in
being.
As to what is the effect of inserting such words, and the
absence of any general rule on the question, see Shelley v.
Shelley, L. R. 6 Eq. 540; In re Johnston, L. R. 26 Ch. D. 538;
Sackville-West v. Viscount Homesdale, L. R. 4 Eng. and I.

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

App. Cas. 543; Harrington v. Harrington, L. R. 5 Eng. and I.
App. Cas. 87, 105-107; Hill v. Hill, L. R. (1902) 1 Ch. Div. 537,
807; In re Moore, L. R. (1901) 1 Ch. Div. 936; In re Exmouth,
L. R. 23 Ch. Div. 158; Lord Scarsdale v. Curzon (1860), 1 J.
and H. 40; Davies v. Davies, 36 Ch. Div. 359, 380, 387, 392;
Tollemache v. Earl of Coventry, 2 Cl. and Fin. 611; Pownall v.
Graham, 33 Beav. 242.
Galbraith's will does not dispose of heirlooms; it does not
contain any such referential trust, nor does it contain any
executory trust, because if anything is clear as to the effect
of the words in question, it is that they do not in themselves
make the trust executory. 1 Perry on Trusts (2d ed.), par. 359;
Harrington v. Harrington,supra; Hill v. Hill, supra.
There is no ground for saying that the trust is executory,
and therefore the court will mold the limitations; and it is
only by ignoring the fact that the above are cases of referential
trusts, executory trusts, or trusts in which the lives to be
taken are pointed out by the testator, that they can be considered as having any bearing on the case before the court.
All these cases are English. The policy of the law of Hawaii,
where estates tail are illegal (12 Hawaii, 375), does not require
this court actually to go beyond the cases decided in England
where estates are entailed to support hereditary titles and
rights.
But if the words in question could have the effect of fixing
the time for the termination of the annuities and the payment
over of the corpus at the end of twenty-one years after lives in
being, still the testator cannot be taken to have selected the
lives in question, or any lives. There is no necessary presumption either by force of the common law or by the terms of
the will, as compared with other wills which have been the
subject of judicial decision, that the lives of the named annuitants, or any lives, were selected by the testator. Hawkins on
Wills, 1; Scale v. Rawlins, L. R. (1892) App. Cas. 342, 343;
Pownall v. Graham, 33 Beav. 242, discussed and distinguished.
To hold that Galbraith's will directs that the lives of all of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellee.

the "forty
would still
tend to a
more than
difficulty.
136; Gray,

211 U. S.

odd" annuitants are to measure the lives in being,
make the trust void for reihoteness, because it will
perpetuity, as the extinction of forty odd lives is
can be made out by reasonable evidence or without
Thellusson v. Woodford, 4 Ves. 290; S. C., 11 Ves.
Rule against Perpetuities, § 218.

Mr. John C. Gray, with whom Mr. Roland Gray was on the
brief, for the Hawaiian Trust Company, an appellee.
There is nothing illbgal in the grant of an annuity, and an
annuity may be for years, for life or perpetual.
The invalidity of a gift over does not affect the validity of
an annuity. The annuity twill continue up to the time fixed
for the bad gift over, or else it will continue forever. But this
is not material, as in this case the gift over is valid.
The whole intention of the testator must be considered together. He was not establishing two or more entirely separate
funds. The testator states his two purposes in establishing
the trust fund: the payment of annuities and the distribution
of the principal of the fund. The trust is to continue as long
as it is legally possible, consistently with the accomplishment
of these two purposes.
Further, the surplus income not being disposed of during
the payment of the annuities, the final gift -of the trust fund
carries the accumulated surplus income. This is the intention
which is presumed in the absence of indications to the contrary, and it is also actually in accord with all the indications
in this will. On any other theory there would be an intestacy
as to that phrt of the income. Such an accumulation is legally
possible only when the gift of the accumulations becomes
vested within the period allowed by the rule against perpetuities. Southampton v. Hertford, 2 V. & B. 54, 61; Boughton v.
James, 1 Coll. 26, 45; Gray on Rule against Perpetuities, §§ 671,
674. The trust as an entirety, therefore, cannot continue beyond that period. But the testator cannot have intended that
the payment of the annuities and the accumulation of the

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

surplus income should stop at different times. The gift over
of the trust fund is a single gift to take effect at one time, and
it must have been intended to include the whole capital and
accumulated income in a single distribution.
The trust for distribution is valid. The devise is not bad
for uncertainty. The testator has sufficiently indicated what
lives should be taken, and those lives were the lives of the
persons to whom annuities were given for life. On this branch
of the case see Poumall v. Graham, 33 Beav. 242; Shelley v.
Shelley, L. R. 6 Eq. 540; Re Johnston, 26 Ch. Div. 538, 546;
Gray on Rule against Perpetuities, §§ 363-367; Harringtonv.
Harrington, L. R. 3 Ch. Div. 564; S. C., L. R. 5 H. L. 87;
S. C., L. R. 3 Ch. 574; S. C., L. R. 5 H. L. 87, 105, 107; Hill
v. Hill, 1 Ch. Div. 807, 813.
If the trust for distribution is sustained, the surplus of income accruing before the time of distribution is to be accumulated. On this point see Genery v. Fitzgerald, Jac. 468; Re
Dumble, 23 Ch. Div. 360, 365; Hurford v. Haines, 67 Maryland,
. 240; McKee's Appeal, 96 Pa. St. 277, 284; Cochrane v. Schell,
140 N. Y. 516, 537; Abbot v. Essex Co., 18 How. 202, 216;
Given v. Hilton, 95 U. S. 591, 594; Kenaday v. Sinnott, 179
U. S. 606, 616; Minot v. Tappan, 127 Massachusetts, 333, 337;
Re Travis, 2 Ch. Div. 541, 548.
Mr. Clarence H. Olson, with whom Mr. William 0. Smith and
Mr. A. Lewis, Junior,were on th e brief, for Cecil Brown and
William 0. Smith, Executors, appellees. 1
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

In the view we take of the case there are but two questions
necessary to be'noticed, and they involve the validity of the
trust and the disposition of the surplus income. The appelSee statement in opinion as to right of the executors' counsel to be

heard, post, p. 328.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S

Iants, who are the heirs of testator, insist, first, that the provision in the will for final distribution, ordering the trust
fund to be divided equally among those persons entitled at
that time to the annuities mentioned, is invalid, because there
is no direction in the will as to when it is to take place, and
therefore effect cannot be given to it; that the only direction
in the will as to the duration of the trust is contained in the
words "the residue

.

.

.

to be placed in trust for as long

a period as is legally possible, the termination or ending of
said trust to take place when the law requires it under the
statute." Unless there is contained in those words a direction
as to the duration of the trust, or, in other words, a direction
as to the period at which that part of the trust which consists
of the payment of annuities is to cease, and that part which
consists of the distribution of the capital is to take place,
then, it is contended, the duration of the trust has not been
sufficiently declared by the testator, and the trust is one which
the court cannot carry out; second, that if the above words
do constitute a direction as to the duration of the trust, yet
still the testator has not selected the lives in being which are
to be taken as a limitation of the trust; third, that even if the
testator had selected the lives consisting of all the annuitants
mentioned, they are more than forty in number, and the trust
is void, because it would then tend to a perpetuity, as the extinction of more than forty lives is more than can be made
but by reasonable evidence or without difficulty, it being quite
impracticable to ascertain when the last of more than forty
lives would be extinguished.
The counsel for the. executors pf the testator; appellees
herein, was permitted in this coukt to file a brief and was
heard orally on the argui,1ent before us, although no appeal
from the decree had been taken by the executors, this court
stating, however, that it woula thereafter decide whether
counsel for executors had any right to be heard to contend
against the decree of the court below.
Counsel, in fact, did argue against some parts
of the decree,

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contending that the trust was valid in so far as it provided for
the payment of the annuities specified, but that the provision
for final distribution was void, and that the annuities succeeding to and other than the life annuities were perpetual,
and that there was an intestacy as to that not required to
satisfy all the annuities.
We are of opinion that counsel for the executors had no
right to appear and be heard against the decree, no appeal
having been taken from it by his clients.
The trustee contends that the whole trust is valid, and that
the surplus income over the amount necessary for the payment
of the annuities mentioned must be accumulated up to the
time of the general distribution under the trust, as provided
for in the will, and that such surplus shall then be distributed
as part of the trust fund to the persons then entitled to that
fund.
Our first inquiry is, Was this trust valid as a whole? It is
conceded by all that the common law is applicable, and that
there is no statute in Hawaii governing the subject, except
the statute making the common law applicable there, and that
the utmost extent of a trust at common law is limited by lives
in being at its creation and for twenty-one years thereafter;
that the lives must be selected by the testator in his will; that
they must be ascertained lives, i. e., lives that can be distinguished, and the fact of the death of the last survivor must
be capable of being made out by reasonable evidence [Thellusson v. Woodford, 4 Ves. 227; S. C., 11 Ves. 134, 146; In re Moore
(1901), 1 Ch. 936], and the selected lives need not be those
having an interest in the property. Moore's Case is an example
of a void limitation on the ground of uncertainty. The limitation was measured by twenty-one years from the death of
the last survivor of all persons living at the death of the testatrix.
A perusal of the will shows that the testator did not in so
many words name the persons whose lives the trustee contends
he selected for the limitation of the trust.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

However, if the scheme of the will, discoverable from its
provisions, be such that a plain implication arises from those
provisions that a certain class or number of lives mentioned,
or referred to, in the will were selected by the testator for a
limitation of the trust, such implied selection is sufficient.
It is the intention of the testator that is to be sought, and
such intention is not always found to have been directly, and
in so many words, expressed in the will. An intention, which
is implied from language actually used and from facts actually
appearing in the will, is to be carried out, provided it does not
violate the law. An intention so implied is as good as an
intention more plainly and in direct terms expressed. The
question is, therefore, whether the testator, by an implication arising from the language used in the will and the facts
therein appearing, selected those lives by which the trust is to
be limited.
Looking at the will, it is seen that a trust is created for three
purposes: The first, to pay certain annuitants out of the income of the fund; the second, to hold the fund until the time
for distribution arrives; and the third,. to distribute it to those
people who may then be entitled to it, as provided by the
terms of the will.
The whole trust, the testator has provided, shall continue
as long as is legally possible, and it is not to be confined to any
particular subdivision of the trust. The direction to hold
and distribute is as imperative as the direction to pay annuitants until distribution is made. When the testator created
the trust in the language already quoted he must have intended it should be measured .by .some lives then in 'being,
and for not more than twenty-one years thereafter, because
that is the longest time a trust of that kind is-legally possible,
aid he provided it should last as long as that. There are no
other lives that can reasonably be said to have been within
th intention - of the testator when he was making this provigion. It is said that being ignorant of the legal length of
time a trust could last, he therefore provided that it should

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
211 U. S.

Opiion of the Court.

last as long as legally possible, and thus ,he could not have
had an intention to select any particular life or lives in limiting the length of the trust.
There is force in the argument, but we are disposed to think
that the position taken by the trustee is the correct one, and,
indeed, is the only one compatible with the intention of the
testator, to be gathered from the will. That intention could
not have been to create annuities to last forever, as is contended, because it is plain from the provisions of the will that
the testator intended to have the gift over of the whole estate
created by the will divided at some future time among those
who would be entitled to it at the time of such distribution.
A perpetual annuity would prevent some part of the gift over
from taking effect. There is not only the provision for continuing the trust as long as is legally possible, but there is also
a provision, as part of the trust, for holding the fund and distributing it according to the terms of the will. Distribution,
therefore, is certainly part of the scheme of the will, and distribution of all of the fund created by the trust-not a part of
it. This distribution could not take place if the payment of
the annuitips provided for in the will were to continue forever.
As he was making provision for' the annuitants mentioned
in the will and for the payrment to the heirs of such of those
annuitants as died, it seems plain that the trust for the payment of the annuities should continue no longer than up to
the time provided in fhe will for the distribution of the whole
estate, and that distribution we think the testator intended to
be twenty-one years after the death of the last survivor of the
annuitants named in the will, for that period was aS long as
the trust could last under the terms of the will.
Upon all these considerations the inference, we think, is
very strong that the lives selected were the lives of the annuitants. A reading of the will fails to suggest any other set of
lives that the testator could reasonably be supposed to have
intended. ' The inference that he intended these lives is almost
conclusive. That he intended to dispose of his whole estate,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

and not to die intestate as to any part of it, is plain from the
language of the will. Either these lives must be regarded as
intended by the testator or there is an intestacy as to a considerable part of the estate. The testator certainly did not
mean that, and there is in addition a strong presumption
against it. Counsel for the heirs do not argue that testator
did not intend to make testamentary disposition of his whole
estate, but that the disposition which they contend he did
make was invalid. The -answer to the question of what disposition he did make is easier to be given when aided by the
presumption that he intended a valid rather than invalid
disposition, there being from the language of the will one construction of his intention that would make the will valid,
although there might be another possible, and at the same
time unlikely,- construction that would render it invalid.
This selection prevents the trust from being bad for uncertainty or remoteness.
The whole of the language of the will must be considered,
and while it says the trust is to continue as long as it is legally
possible, it must also be remembered that a distribution of the
whole estate is to be made, and therefore the continuation of
the trust must also be limited by the direction to distribute;
or, in other words, the trust is to continue as long as is legally
possible and as shall be consistent with making the distribution
as directed by the will. This distribution must be made at a
time which is not too remote, that is, a time within which the
trust would be valid, for the testator provided that the trust
should only last that long. Payments of the most of the annuities are to be continued to the heira of the annuitants, but we
think these payments are to stop with the death of the last
survivor of the annuitants named in the list and twenty-one
years thereafter. The distribution of the entire corpus of the
fund remaining with the trustee is then to be made as provided
for in the will.
The use of the words "under the statute" in the will, providing for the termination of the trust when the law requires

FITCHIE v. BROWN.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it under the statute, is not material. It must be assumed that
the testator was not positive as to the time provided by law
for the duration of a trust, or whether it was limited by any
particular statute. It is enough to know that his desire was
to have the trust continue as long as was legally possible, and
consistent with distribution as directed, and that the estate
was to be then distributed, and hence the trust to pay the
annuities was to cease when it would no longer be consistent
with the provision for distribution. As the testator has mentioned annuitants to whom payments are to be made, it is
most reasonable to infer from that fact that their lives and
the -life of the survivor of them were the lives he had in view,
and therefore they are to be regarded as selected by him. The
fact that in the meantime, when an annuitant died, payment
was to be made to his heirs, does not affect the limitation to
the survivor of the- annuitants. His death then terminates
the class, and twenty-one years from that time distribution is
to be made.
As the question whether a valid trust has been created depends upon the construction to be given to the language of
this particular will, reported cases in regard to the language
used in other wills (unless similar -to this in their facts) are
not of great benefit in the solution of the question as to the
intention of the testator in the will before us. The case of
Poumall v. Graham, 33 Beav. 242 (Gray on Rule against Perpetuities, § 219), seems, however, to be as nearly in point as
any to be found. There the question was as to what lives were
to be taken as measuring the limitation of the trust, as none
had been directly selected in so many words by the testator,
but it was thought, upon looking over the entire will, that the
testator intended a certain class of lives mentioned in it as
the limitation of the, trust, and the court accordingly so decided. Counsel for the heirs have criticised the application of
that case, but we think unsuccessfully.
Some light is also to be found in' a certain class of English
cases, known as the Heirloom Cases, where bequests of per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908...
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

sonal property were made to go as heirlooms along with certain real property, "as far as the rules of law and equity will
permit." These cases are to be found in Gray on Rule against
Perpetuities, notes to §§ 363-367. They are cited for the purpose of showing that a limitation in a gift, "as far as the rules
of law and equity will permit," is not bad for uncertainty, and
that the period of limitation to be taken is to be determined
from a consideration of the whole will. They strengthen the
proposition that it is not necessary to find in the will, in so
many words, the selection of lives, but that such selection is
good if from a consideration of the whole will that selection
can be ascertained.
Counsel for the heirs contend that there is as much reason
for including the Kona' Orphanage among the lives of the
annuitants as a limitation of the trust as there is to say that
the limitation includes only the individual annuitants. The
orphanage is a corporation or joint stock company, and could
not be included in or constitute a life in being within the rule
of which we are speaking. To include it would render the trust
void, and the testator intended a valid trust.
We see no reason for holding that the number of annuitants,
which it is said exceeds forty, is too large for a valid limitation
of the trust. There are cases cited from the English reports
showing that even a larger number than that has been held
not to exceed a-valid limitation, and in Humberston v. Humberston, 1 P. Wims. 332, which is cited in Thelluson v. Woodford, 11 Ves. 112, 135, it would seem there were about fifty
life- estates.
We therefore sustain the validity of the trust in this case,
and the question remaining is as to the disposition of the
surplus income arising during the payment of the annuities.
The will shows that the testator supposed there Would be such
surplus. Should it be accumulated or paid to the heirs of testator? We think the surplus, after paying annuities, must
accumulate as part of the trust estate until the time arrives
for the distribution of that estate, and that such accumulation

INGERSOLL v. CORAM.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

must then be distributed as a part thereof to those who will
then have the right to take the estate as provided for in the
will. The accumulation is to be treated as a surplus arising
from both real and personal estate, and the person or persons
entitled to receive the main fund are to take the surplus as
if it arose entirely from personalty. Some of the cases upon
this subject are gathered in the brief of counsel for the-trustee
and it is not necessary to cite them here. Holding the trust
to be valid, it is not now necessary to determine to whom the
distribution is to be made when the time for distribution shall
arrive.
The trust company is entitled to take the property and
execute the trust. We do not understand that this is now controverted by -counsel for any of the parties. In any event, it
does not affect the validity of the trust. If the trustee named
could not act the court would appoint a trustee to carry out
the provisions of the trust. Vidal v. Girard,2 How. 127, 191;
Matter of McGraw, 1I1 N. Y. 66, 104.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Hawaii is

Affirmed..

INGERSOLL v. CORAM.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 8.. Argued March 11, 12, 1908.-Decided December 7, 1908.

In this case the Circuit Court had jurisdiction under the provision
of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, 472, to enforce a lien for
professional services, on property within the district, although some
of the defendants did not reside therein.
An objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court based on the resi'dence of defendant, although diverse citizenship exists, may be
waived, and is waived if not seasonably made. In re Moore, 209
U. S. 490.

