OCTOBER TERM

1908.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

made by the plea, and was not liable to any valid objection.
The judgment must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

EL PASO AND SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. VIZARD.
ERROR

TO THE

No. 31.

Argued November 30, December 1, 1908.-Deaided January 4,
1909.

UNITED

STATES CIRCUIT COURT
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

OF APPEALS

In this case held that the court below correctly charged the jury as to
the law governing the duty of the master to furnish a safe place,
machinery and tools, and the duty of the employ6 to take reasonable
care of himself, and the judgment in favor of the employ6 affirmed.
DEFENDANT in error, plaintiff below, was a brakeman in the
employ of the railroad company,, plaintiff in error, and on
February 22, 1904, was injured while in the performance of his

duties as brakeman. He brought suit for $25,000 in the District Court of El Paso County, Texas, charging negligence on
the part of the company. Subsequently he amended his petition by adding the allegation that the car, in getting on to which
he was injured, was used in interstate shipment, and that the
cause of the injury was a lack of hand holds and grab irons required by the safety appliance statute of the United States.
Thereupon the railroad company removed the case to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Texas. A trial was had in April, 1906, which resulted in a judgment for $6,000. This judgment was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals, and from that court brought here on error.
Mr. J. F. Woodson, with whom Mr. Millard Patterson was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
If the water car was equipped with hand holds and a stirrup

EL PASO R. R. CO. v. VIZARD.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

on the front right hand comer for plaintiff's use, and he ignored
the same and attempted to mount the car as he says he did, he
was guilty of negligence or assumed the risk, and could not
recover. American Linseed Oil Co. v. Hines, 141 Fed. Rep.
45, 50; Gilbert v. Burlington, C. R. & N. Ry. Co., 128 Fed. Rep.
529, 539; Morris v. Duluth S. S. & A. R. R. Co., 108 Fed.
Rep. 747, 750; Dawson v. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co., i14 Fed. Rep.
870, 872; Wed v. C., St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co., 99 N. W. Rep.
828; Montgomery v. C. G. W. Ry. Co., 83 S. W. Rep. 66, 67; B.
& P. R. R. Co. v. Jones, 95 U. S. 439, 443; Suttle v. Choctaw,
C. & G. R. R. Co., 144 Fed. Rep. 668, 669; Wood on Master &
Servant, ยง 402.
An employs ignoring devices and appliances provided for his
use and undertaking to do his work by an unnecessarily dangerous way, if injured, is guilty of contributory negligence.
A servant cannot recover of the master for injuries resulting
from the use of appliances for a purpose for which they are not
intended by the master, and for which it is not necessary that
they should be used, however defective the appliances may be,
and in undertaking to use an appliance for a purpose for which
it is not intended by the master, the servant takes upon himself the risks incident to such use.
Mr. W. H. Robeson, with whom Mr. George E. Wallace was
on the brief, for defendant in error:
The court properly left the question of defendant's negligence,
and plaintiff's contributory negligence, to the jury. Railway
Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593; Jones v. Railway Co., 128 U. S. 443;
Dunlap v. Railway Co., 139 U. S. 649; Tolson Case, 139 U. S.
551; Railway Co. v. Adams, 94 Texas, 106; Balhoff v. Railway,
65 N. W. Rep. 593; Donahu v. Railway, 176 Massachusetts, 251.
Where the plaintiff's injury was caused by an act on his
part which the law regards as negligence per se, he cannot excuse his contributory negligence by proof of the custom on the
part of others to do the same act in the same way. But where
an act is not negligence per se, the plaintiff, to rebut a charge of
VOL. CCXI-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

contributory negligence, may introduce evidence of general
custom among persons experienced in the performance of the
same act, under similar circumstances to perform it as he did.
29 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 418; Choctaw Railway Co. v. Tennessee, 191 U. S. 328; Railway v. Waller, 65 S. W. Rep. 212;
Railway Co. v. Beam, 50 S. W. Rep. 411; Railway Co. v. Puente,
70 S. W. Rep. 362; Railway Co. v. Clark (Ky.), 55 S. W. Rep.
699; Railway Co. v. Zink (Pa.), 17 Atl. Rep. 614; Railway Co.
v. Milliken (Ky.), 51 S. W. Rep. 796; Martin v. Railway Co.
(Ky.), 26 S. W. Rep. 801; Railway Co. v. Hobbs (Ind.), 29 N. E.
Rep. 934; Railway Co. v. Ice Co., 49 App. Div. 485; S. C., 63
N. Y. Supp. 535; Curtis v. Railway Co. (Wis.), 70 N. W. Rep.
665; Refley v. Railway Co. (Minn.), 75 N. W. Rep. 704; Railway Co. v. Engleham, 62 S. W. Rep. 561; Flanders v. Railway
Co., 53 N. W. Rep. 544.
MR,

JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The circumstances of the injury, generally speaking, were
these: The freight train on which plaintiff was acting as brakeman was directed to stop at Osborne and pick up a water car.
This water car was a flat car with a tank on it-a temporary
water car.. It had an iron hand rail on each. side and upright
posts, or standards, through which, near the top, the rail extended, on each end of which was supposed to be a nut to hold
the rail in position. After the water car and another car on the
siding had been coupled to the train the conductor gave the
signal to pull out, and as it drew near the switch the water car
passed the plaintiff, then standing on the ground. He put his
foot on the journal box, reached up and caught hold of the rail
near the rear end of the car. It slipped out of the standard, and
he fell and was injured. It appears that there was no nut at
that end of the hand rail, and the weight of the plaintiff pulled
the rail out from the standard. One witness, who examined the
car just before as well as after the injury, said that the end of

EL PASO R. R. CO. v. VIZARD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the hand rail, where the nut ought to have been, was rusty, as
though none had been there for some time. Another witness
supported him as to the rusty condition of the end of the rail
immediately after the accident. There was testimony that
plaintiff followed a common way of getting on to such a water
car. Indeed, on an open, moving car, a hand rail running
through -standards on the side and within easy reach, would
naturally suggest doing just what the plaintiff did. It certainly
could not be declared, as matter of law, negligence. On the part
of the defendant there was testimony that this car had a hand
hold on the standard at the front end of the car, such as is required by the statute of the United States, that the company
had an experienced inspector, who stated that he had inspected
the car the day before the injury, found one nut gone
and replaced it, and that the car otherwise was in good condition.
This outline of the testimony is all that is sufficient, although
there was quite a volume on both sides of the matters referred
to. The court charged the jury as to the law governing the case,
both in respect to the duty of the master to furnish a safe place,
machinery and tools, and the duty resting upon the employ6
of taking reasonable care of himself, following in the instructions the rules so often stated by this court. Hough v. Railway
Company, 100 U. S.213; Northern Pacific Railroad v. Herbert,
116 U. S. 642; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Baugh,149 U. S.
368, 386; Union Pacific Railway v. Daniels, 152 U. S. 684;
Northern Pacific Railroad v. Babcock, 154 U. S.190. Without
reviewing the various instructions in detail, it is enough to say
that they clearly presented the matters in dispute and stated
thb law applicable thereto correctly. The verdict of the jury,
approved as it was by the trial and appellate courts, settles the
disputed questions of fact.
Under these circumstances it does not seem necessary, to
notice in detail the several objections pointed out in the very
elaborate argument of counsel for the railroad company. A
careful examination discloses no error in the proceedings. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

211 U. S.

plaintiff was injured, and the questions of his care and the company's negligence were fully and fairly submitted to the jury.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. LARABEE
FLOUR MILLS COMPA;NY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 16.

Argued November 11, 12, 1908.-Decided January 11, 1909.

No one can be compelled to engage in the business of a common carrier, but if he does so, he'becomes subject to the duties imposed on
common carriers.
Even in the absence of legislative enactment or special contract a common carrier is bound to treat all shippers alike and can be compelled
to perform this common-law duty by mandamus or other proper writ.
Notwithstanding the creation of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
and the delegation to it by Congress of the control of certain matters,
a State may, in the absence of express action by Congress or by such
commission, regulate for the benefit of its citizens local matters indirectly affecting interstate commerce.
Where there has been no action by Congress or the Interstate Commerce
Commission a state court may by mandamus compel a railroad company doing interstate business to afford equal local switching service
to its shippers, notwithstanding the cars in regard to which the service
is claimed are eventually to be engaged in interstate commerce. McNeill v. Southern Railway Co., 202 U. S. 543, distinguished.

ON September 15, 1906, the Larabee Flour Mills Company
(hereinafter called the mill company) filed its application in
the Supremo Court of Kansas for an alternative writ of mandamus, compelling the Missouri Pacific Railway Company (hereinafter called the Missouri Pacific) to restore, resume and make
transfer of cars between the lines of the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa Fe Railway Company (hereinafter called the Santa Fe)
and the mill and elevators of the plaintiff, situated in the town
of Stafford. The following diagram shows the location of the
mill and railroad tracks:

