OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

peals, that common justice requires that there should not be
now any judgment upon the merits in these cases. He correctly said that the findings of fact do not adequately cover
all the issues, and upon those to which they are responsive
they are neither definite nor full enough to justify a judgment
in favor of the plaintiff. Without expressing at this time any
views upon the merits of these cases, I am of opinion that the
judgment in each case should be reversed and the cases remanded with an order for a new trial, when all the facts may
be more fully disclosed and sufficient findings made.

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. THOMAS' EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 352.

Argued December 18, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

Green County v. Quinlan, ante, p. 582, followed as to the liability of a
county on bonds issued for railroad assistance.
\\'here a technical mistake in the petition for writ of error is the result
of accident the court is justified in allowing an amendment and denying a motion to dismiss.
Looseness of practice should not be encouraged, and while an appellate
court should not enter final judgment for appellant without protecting the rights of the appellec, it is not hound to take not-ice of questions not set forth in the record, nor raised in the assignimcnls of error,
or where the appellant did not save his rights in the court below.
A finding that the plaintiffs below are bona fide holders of bonds and
entitled to sue in the Circuit Court amounts to a finding that the
plaintiffs ire joint owners, :ind is sufficient to support jurisdiction if
lhe aggregate amount execeds $2,000.
If tme defemdlant obligor owed the amount to the plaintiff at the commeneiemnt of the action it is not interested in the division of the
verdict.

GREEN COUNTY v. THOMAS' EXECUTOR.
211 U. S.

599

Opinion-of the Court.

This court will not open the way to the raising of technical questions,
and a plaintiff in error is only entitled to a decision on questions properly brought to its attention.
146 Fed. Rep. 969, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Erizest Macpherson, with whom Mr. John W. Lewis was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey and Mr. Alexander C. Ayers,
for respondents, submitted.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case relates to the same issue of bonds referred to in the
one preceding, and is governed by it, unless there is something
to prevent in the questions following.
There were several plaintiffs, including three corporations.
In the petition they alleged that they were "jointly the owners
and holders" of sixty-seven bonds, whose aggregate face value
exceeded the jurisdictional amount. Diversity of citizenship
was duly alleged. By leave of court, on suggestion of the death
of one of the plaintiffs, and that his personal representatives
had been 'discharged, his heirs were made parties plaintiff.
No objection was made to this amendment by the defendant
at the time. The defendant's answer denied that the plaintiffs
were "jointly the owners or holders" of the bonds. Certain
interrogatories to each of the p~laintiffs were attached to the
answer, which prayed that plaintiffs be compelled to answer
theni on oath. These interrogatories were directed to the subject of the acquisition and ow er'shi 1) of the bonds by the plaintiffs. The answers disclosed that, the bonds in suit were taken
from the Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company by the Indianapolis Rolling Mill Company in payment for iron to be
used in building the railroad through Green County, were by
the mill company turned over to its stockholders (who were

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

the plaintiffs, or represented by them) as dividends, and that
they, fifteen years before, agreed to become joint owners and
holders of all the bonds in certain named proportions. And it
was stated that each plaintiff owned an undivided interest
in all the bonds and coupons in suit. The defendant then suggested the death of two of the plaintiffs, but no action appears
to have been taken thereon by the court.
The defendant was permitted to file an amended answer,
which alleged that, after the distribution of the bonds by way
of dividends, each distributee owned a separate and distinct
interest which were joined together to give the court jurisdiction, which, in the case of certain plaintiffs, it would otherwise
lack on account of the insufficient value of their respective interests, and concluded by averring that the court was without
jurisdiction.
The defendant moved the court for a rule on the plaintiffs
to furnish dates of the deaths of the parties plaintiff named in
the pleadings, who had died since the institution of the action,
and to show cause why the action should not be dismissed for
failure to revive within the time prescribed by law. This motion was denied and defendant excepted.
On the twerity-second day of March, 1905, the defendant
moved the court to dismiss the action on the ground of misjoinder of plaintiffs, and for want of jurisdiction of such of the
plaintiffs whose claims were separately less than $2,000. On
the same day the parties stipulated that the issues of fact.might
be tried and determined by the court without the intervention
of a jury.
On the first day of June, 1905, the Circuit Court ordered
judgment for the defendant, with the same findir.gs of fact and
conclusions of law which were made in the preceding case.
The plaintiffs, each and all, excepted to the judgment and to
each part of it, and filed a petition for a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, with assignment of errors. The defendant did not object or except to the findings of fact, or request any rulings of law, or file any writ of error or assignment

GREEN COUNTY v. THOMAS' EXECUTOR.
211 U. S.

601

Opinion of the Court.

of errors, or any bill of exceptions, or take any other step whatever which would carry to the appellate court any questions
of law different from those contained in the plaintiffs' assignment of errors. Throughout the record, up to this point, the
defendant appears to have been content to raise questions of
law without attempting in any form to save any of its rights
upon the resulting rulings of the court.
On the first day of May, 1906, the plaintiffs in error moved
the Court of Appeals to amend the writ of error by striking
out certain persons named therein as plaintiffs and by inserting
the names of certain other persons. On the same day the defendant in error moved the court to dismiss the writ of error
because some of the .plaintiffs against whom judgment had
been rendered in the court below had failed to prosecute the
writ of error without a summons and severance, and because
certain persons who were never parties to the action were
named in the writ of error. These cross-motions seem to have
raised the same questions: It appeared that owing to illness
of counsel for the plaintiffs in error the petition for a writ did
not set forth accurately the parties plaintiff. The error was a
pure accident, and we think the court below was entirely.
justified in allowing the amendment and in denying the crossmotion to dismiss. Section 1005, Revised Statutes.
The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment of the Circuit
Court, and ordered, as will hereafter more specifically appear,
that court to enter a judgment for the plaintiffs. The case is
here upon a writ of certiorari. It has been argued by the defendant, apparently upon the theory that all questions of law
which were raised by it or were remotely suggested in the
record, were open for consideration in the appellate court.
But we ought not to encourage such looseness of practice.
Some of the questions raised by the defendant were passed on
adversely to it in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and we do not
intend to intimate any doubt of the correctness of the decision
of that court. The writ of error sued out by the plaintiffs, and
the assignment of errors which accompanied it, set forth all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

questions regarding the action of the court below, of which
the appellate court was bound to take notice. The Maria
Martin, 12 Wall. 31, 40; Bolles v. Outing Company, 175 U. S.
262. Neither that court nor this ought to be expected to
search through a confused record for the purpose of finding
errors, where the party complaining has not taken the pains,
at the time the alleged errors were committed, to save its rights
in some form known to the law. It would be, of course, entirely unfair to enter final judgment in favor of the party appellant, unless the court can see that the findings of the court
below are full and adequate and protect every substantial
right of the party in whose favor the judgment originally was
entered. But we think that the findings did this. The first
finding of the court was that the plaintiffs at the date of the
beginning of the suit were"the bona fide holders for value of
the bonds and coupons sued on; and fully entitled to sue the
defendant thereon in this Court." This is a finding which,
among other things, supports the jurisdiction of the court, and
could proceed only upon the theory that the plaintiffs were
the joint owners and holders of the bonds and coupons sued on.
If they were, the court had jurisdiction under the rule stated
in Clay v. Field, 138 U. S. 464, 479.
The defendant owes the amount of these bonds, and at the
beginning of this action owed it to the plaintiffs. -It has no
interest or concern in the proper division of the amount due
on the bonds among those N,ho are entitled to share the proceeds of the verdict. We are not disposed to open the way to
the defendant to raise technical questions to embarrass the
progress and delay the final-ending of this acti6n. The defendant is entitled to a decision upon the questions which it has
properly brought to this court, and no others.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals was "that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, reversed with costs and cause remanded with directions
to th e said Circuit Court that upon the suggestion on the
record of the deaths of such of the original plaintiffs as have

SOUTHERN REALTY CO. v. WALKER.
211 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

died pending the suit and striking out the names of their personal representatives, it enter judgment for the plaintiffs as
they then appear of record for the amount of the principal of
the bonds in suit with interest thereon from the date when their
latest coupons severally become due and for the coupons in
suit with interest on each from the time when they severally
fell due." We have no doubt of the correctness of this judgment or that it will protect every substantial right whicb the
defendant has, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN'S dissent in Green County v. Quinlan,
ante, pp. 5F;2, 597, applies also to this case.

SOUTHERN REALTY INVESTMENT COMPANY v.
WALKER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 43.

Argued December 7, 8, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

A corporation organized by citizens of one State in another State simply
for the purpose of bringing suits on causes of action against citizens
of the former State in the Federal courts where jurisdiction would
not otherwise exist, is a sham and, under ยง 5 of the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, a suit brought by such a corporation does
not really and substantially involve a dispute within the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court and should be dismissed, as soon as such facts
have been ascertained.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander C. King for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Olin J. Wimberly for defendant in error.

