OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

an allowance for his. mortgage debt except by a conjectural
inference. Among the matters that we do not consider is
whether the plaintiff has any remedy except proceedings for an
abatement, when he Admits that he was liable to a tax and disputes only the amount.
Judgment affirmed.

BAILEY ,v. STATE OF ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 538.

Submitted November 12, 1908.-Decided December 21, 1908.

This court cannot require the state court to release persons held for
trial because the evidence fails to show probable cause, and in this
case the judgment of the highest court of the'State dismissing a writ
of habeas corpus is affirmed without consideration of the questions
on the merit and the constitutionality of the state statutes under
which the accused was held although such questions were discussed
by the state court.
Quare and not decided, whether the statutes of Alabama involved in
this case establish a system of peonage in violation of the Constitu-

tion and laws of the United States.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred S. Ball and Mr. Edw. S. Watts, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alexander M. Garber, Attorney General of the State of
Alabama' atid Mr. Thomas W. Martin, for defendant in error.
By leave of court, Mr. Attorney General Bonaparte and
Mr. Robert A. Howard filed a brief as amici curie on the question of constitutionality of the Alabama statute.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to reverse a judgment of the Supreme

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of the State of Alabama, affirming a judgment of a
judge of the Montgomery City Court, which denied a discharge
on habeas corpus to the plaintiff in error. At the hearing on
the writ in the City Court it appeared that after a preliminary
trial before a justice of the peace the plaintiff in error was committed for detention on a charge of obtaining fifteen dollars
under a contract in writing, with intent-to injure or defraud
his employer. At this stage the writ was issued.
If the Supreme Court had affirmed the denial of the discharge on the ground that the proper course was to raise the
objections relied upon at the trial of the principal case on the
merits and to take the question up by writ of error, it would
have adopted the rule that prevails in this court and there
would be nothing to be said. But. the Supreme 'Court of the
State dealt with the objections, and, as the matter is one of
local procedure, it is not to be criticised for taking a different
course. The unsatisfactoriness of such attempts to take a
short cut will appear, however, we think, in a moment.
We gather from the opinion of the Supreme Court that the
plaintiff in error is proceeded against under a law of 1907
(General Acts, 1907, p. 636), amending the Code of 1896, § 4730.
This section of the Code made it an offense punishable like
larceny to enter into a contract in writing for service with
intent to injure or defraud the employer, and, after thereby
obtaining money or personal property from such employer,
with such intent, without just cause and without refunding
the money or paying for the property to refuse to perform the
service. The amendment, embodying and enlarging an earlier
one, makes the refusal or failure without just cause prima
facie evidence of the intent; makes the penalty a fine in double
the damage suffered, one-half to go to the party injured, and
creates a similar offense with regard to persons making contracts in writing "for the rent of land." It is contended that
the statute as it now stands is unconstitutional under the
Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments. The presumption
is said to be artificial and not drawn from the facts of life.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

When coupled with the local rule that the party cannot testify
to his actual intent, it is said practically to make a crime out
of a mere departure from service, which it is said, and it seems
to have been conceded by the Supreme Court of Alabama,
could not be done.
The trouble in dealing with this contention is due to the
meager facts on which this case comes before us at this stage.
If the principal case had been tried it is imaginable that it
might appear that a certain class in the community was mainly
affected, and that the usual course of events, including the
consequences in case of inability to pay the fines, was such
that in view of its operation and intent the whole statute ought
to be held void. It may be, although presumptions of intent
from somewhat remote subsequent conduct are not unknown
to the common law, Commonwealth v. Rubin, 165 Massachusetts, 453, that the amendment creates a presumption that
cannot be upheld. But we cannot deal with these questions
now. All that appears from the record with regard to the
foundation of the case against him is 'that the plaintiff in error
is held on a charge of having obtained money under a written
contract with intent to defraud. There is no doubt that such
conduct may be made a cri Me. It may be questioned whether
we ought to assume that the proceeding is under the statute,
although it~is admitted on all hands. But if we do assume it,
there is nothing as yet to show that the section of the Code
apart from the amendments is bad. The amendments are
separable, as is sufficiently shown by the fact that the rest of
the enactment originally stood without them. When the case
comes to trial it may be that -the prosecution will not rely upon
the statutory presumption but will exhibit satisfactory proof
of a fraudulent scheme, so that the validity of the addition to
the statute will not come into question at all. It is true that
it appears that the plaintiff in error was held for trial on the
statutory evidence and with no other proof of fraudulent intent. But if that evidence was insufficient' it hardly will be
contended that this court should requir~e the state coints to

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
211 U. S.

H&RLAN, J., dissenting.

release all persons held for trial, where in its opinion the evidence fails to show probable cause. We repeat, the trouble
with the whole case is that it is brought here prematurely by
an attempt to take a short cut. And as the Supreme Court
of the State would have been warranted in denying the writ
on that ground, perhaps we have done a work of supererogation
in giving further reasons for affirming its judgment.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

The plaintiff in error, Bailey,*was arrested and held for trial
on the charge of having obtained from his employer with the
intent to injure him the sum of fifteen dollars. Having been
taken into custody he sued out a writ of habeas corpus from a
subordinate court of Alabama, alleging that the statute under
which he was arrested and deprived of his liberty was in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The statute of Alabama referred to is as follows: "§ 6845
of Alabama Code of 1907, p. 522, c. 211.--Any person who, with
intent to injure or defraud his employer, enters into a contract
in writing for the performance of anV act or service, and thereby
obtains money or other personal property from such employer,
and with like intent, and without just cause, and without
refunding such money or paying for such property, refuses or
fails to perform such 'act or service, must, on conviction, be
punished by a fine in double tlhe damage suffered by the injured party, but not more than three hundred dollars, onehalf of said fine to go to the county and one-half to the party
injured; and any person who, with intent to injure or defraud
his landlord, enters into any contract in writing for the rent
of land and thereby obtains any money or other personal
property from such landlord, and with like intent, without just
cause, and without refunding such money or paying for such
property, efuses or fails to cultivate such land, or to comply
'with his contract relative thereto, must, on conviction, be

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

punished by a fine in double the damage suffered by the injured party, but not more than three hundred dollars, onehalf of said fine to go to the county and one-half to the party
injured. And the refusal of any person who enters into such
contract to perform such act or service, or to cultivate such
lands, or refund such money, or pay for such property, without
just cause, shall be prima facie evidence of the intent to injure his employer or landlord or to defraud him."
It appears that at the hearing of the application for habeas
corpus the accused contended that the statute was in violation
(1) of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States in that it deprived him 'of his liberty without
due process of law and denied him the equal protection of the'
laws; (2) of the Thirteenth Amendment, in that its effect was
to subject him to involuntary servitude (not as a punishment
for crime) if he failed to pay a debt preferred against him.
These contentions were overruled and the discharge of the
accused having been refused he prosecuted an appeal to the
Supreme Court of Alabama. That court considered upon its
merits every question presented by the record, and affirmed
the order under which the accused was held in custody. From
that order the case was brought heie by Bailey from that court
upon writ of error granted by its Chief Justice.
Speaking generally, the statute has been assailed by the
accused, as well as by the Attorney General of the United States
(who, with the consent of this court, has filed a brief as amicus
curi(r), as establishing and maintaining and .as intended to
establish and maintain, as to laborers or employ6s in Alabama,
a system of peonage in violation of the Constitution and the
laws of the United States. The statute of Alabama, the Attorney General contends, is in violation of the act of Congress
of March 2, 1867, c. 187, now .§1990, Rev. Stat., which provides that "all acts, laws, resolutions, orders, regulations, or
usages of the Territory of New Mexico, or any other Territory
or State, . . . by virtue of which any attempt shall hereafter be made to establish, maintain, ;or enforce, directly or

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
211 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

indirectly, the voluntary or involuntary service or labor of any
persons as peons in liquidation of any debt or obligation, or
otherwise, are declared null and void." 14 Stat. 546.
The Supreme Court of Alabama, by its final order, overruled
the objections which the accused urged, on constitutional
grounds, against the statute and refused to direct his discharge
from custody. If that statute is repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States it is void, and the accused
is deprived of his liberty in violation of Federal law. That
every one will admit. But this court reffises, although the case
is before it upon writ of error regularly sued out by the defendant, to consider and determine that question. It affirms the
judgment of the state court and .leaves the accused in custody
upon the. g.urid-if I correctly interpret the opinion-that
he took a "short cut" when seeking, upon habeas corpus, to
be discharged from custody in advance of-his trial. If the
accused, in advance of his trial, had sought a discharge on a
writ of habeas corpus sued out from a Circuit Court of the United States, that might have been deemed a "short cut." For
it is well established that "in the light of therelations existing
under our system of government between the judicial tribunals
of the Union and the State, and in recognition of the fact that
the public good requires that those relations be not disturbed
by unnecessary conflict between courts equally bound to guard
and protect rights secured by the Constitution," the courts of
the United States will' not, except in certain cases of urgency,
and in advance of his trial, discharge upon habeas corpus one
who is alleged to be held in custody by the State in violation
of the Constitution or the laws of the United States. Ex parte
Royall, 117 U. S.241, 248, 249; Minnesota v. Brundage, 180
U. S.499, 501, and the authorities there cited. But whether the
accused, in seeking-his discharge by the state court, adopted a.
mode of procedure authorized by the local law was for the
Alabama courts, not for this court, to determine. The state
court recognized the proceeding Py habeas corpus to be in accordance with the local law; for, the Supreme Court of Ala-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissonting.

211 U. S.

bama, 'without even intimating that the accused took a "short
cut," or pursued the wrong method to obtain his discharge,
entertained his.-appcal and passed upon the constitutionality
of the statute under which he was held in custody. As the
state court by its final order held that the detention of the
accused by the state authorities was not inconsistent with any
privilege secured by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, he was entitled, of right, to bring the case here upon
writ of error and have this court determine the question, distinctly raised, whether the statute of Alabama, as applied to
his case, did not infringe privileges belonging to him under the
Constitution and laws of the United States. We sy, of right,
because § 709, Rev. Siat., exyoressly authorizes a writ of error
to redxamine the final judgment of the highest court of a
State, which denies a title, right, privilege or immunity,
specially set up or claimed under the United States. This is
a right of great value. I submit that this court cannot properly refuse or fail to meet the constitutional question decided
by the state court and plainly raised by the l)resent writ of
error for its consideration. Such refusal or failure cannot, I
submit, be justified except on the ground that an order of the
highest court of a State rendered on a formal appeal which
affirms that the accused is not held in custody in violation of
the Constitution and laws of the United States, is not a final
judgment within the meaning of § 709-a proposition which
this court does not announce and which, I cannot believe, it
will ever announce. The course pursued in the disposition of
this case by the court has not, so far as I am aware, any precedent in its history. If it was the right and duty of the state
court to determne by its final order whether the accused was
constitutionally deprived of his liberty or was subjected to
involuntary servitude or labor, not in punishment for crime,
but really in liquidation of a debt, it is then the right, and, I
think, the duty of this court, upon the present writ of error,
regularly brought by the accused, to reexamine that judgment
and decide the question whether he is deprived of his liberty

BUTLER v. FRAZEE.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

in violation of the Constitution or lAws of the United States.
It is a curious condition of things if this court must remain
silent when the question comes before it regularly, whether
the final judgment of the highest court of a State does not
deprive the citizen of rights secured to him by the Supreme
Law of the Land.
For the reasons stated I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY also dissented.

BUTLER v. FRAZEE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 36.

Argued December 3, 1908.-Decided December 21, 1908.

The common-law rule of assumption of known risk by the employe
has never been modified by statute in.the District of Columbia, and
even if hardship results the court must enforce the rule.
One understanding the condition of machinery and dangers arising
therefrom, or who is capable of so doing, and voluntarily, in the
course of employment, exposes himslf thereto, assumes the risk
thereof and if injury results cannot recover against his employer.
Although the plaintiff, if of full age and understanding, may testify to
the contrary, where the elements and combination out of which the
danger arises are-so visible and have been of such longstanding that
the dangers are obvious to all, the question is one of law for the court
and the judge should instruct the jury that a verdict for plaintiff
cannot be' sustained.
In this case, held that an employ6 in a laundry, who had been employed
in laundries for two years and was familiar with the machinery used
therein, could not recover for injuries received by a machine on which
she had been working for three months, and the imperfections, if any,
of which she did not at any time report to her employer.
25"App. D. C. 392, affirmed.

