HOME TELEPHONE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
211 U. S.

265

Syllabus.

The Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Fowler, with whom Mr. William R. Harr was on the brief,
for'plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles H. Merillat, with whom Mr. Charles J. Kappler
and Mr. James K. Jones were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were argued and submitted with the Goldsby
Case, No. 248, just decided. In the case of George A. Allison,
a patent had been issued for his lands and duly recorded. In
the case of Ida Allison, an allotment certificate had been issued.
The relators are Cherokees, but the legislation herein involved is not different from that governing allotments to
members of the Chickasaw Nation.
The Allisons made application to the commission for admission to citizenship under the act of June 10, 1896. Their
applications were denied and no appeal taken. Afterwards a
decision by the commission, granting the application of the
Allisons for enrollment as citizens by blood, was affirmed by
the Department of the Interior as of April 16, 1904. Their
names were summarily stricken from the rolls by the department's order of March 4, 1907. The cases are controlled by the
decision in Goldsby's Case.
Judgments affirmed.

HOME TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
CITY OF LOS ANGELES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN. DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 173.

Argued October 21, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

Only the legislature of a State, or a municipality specifically authorized thereto by the legislature, can surrender by contract a governmental power such as fixing rates.
To grant a corporation the right to charge a specified rate for a specified

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

time suspends for such period the governmental power of fixing and
regulating rates, and in construing a franchise all doubts, both as
to existence of contract and authority to make it, must be resolved
against such suspension of power.
Whether an inviolable contract for rates exists must be determined
in each case on the particular facts involved; even slight differences
may turn the balance.
A power given by the State to one of its municipalities to "fix and
determine rates," does not authorize that municipality to abandon
the power, and to irrevocably establish rates for the entire period of
a franchise.
Rate regulation is a legislative, and not a judicial, function, and qutrre
whether nbtice and hearing are necessary to constitute due process
of law in fixing rates. Where notice and hearing are indispensable
to dtue process of law even though the charter does not require it,
an ordinance will to be declared unconstitutional at the instance
of parties Vho actually had notice and an opportunity to be heard,
as depriving them of property without due process of law within
the meaning -f the Fourteenth Amendment.
In this case objections to a municipal ordinance requiring a telephone
company to report expenditures and receipts are untenable.
A city council is not disqualified from acting in rate regulation because
the city is a heavy ratepayer, or because the members might be
politically affected by their action.
The rule that every presumption is in favor of the validity of legislation applies to a city ordinance and it will not be held to be unconstitutional within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, as
denying the equal protection of the laws, where the party attacking
it as imposing unequal rates upon it does not clearly show an improper classification.
This court will not consider the legality or effect of a provision in a
city charter for submission of ordinances adopted by the common
council to the people on the petition of a specified number of voters,
when the ordinance involved was not .so submitted.
The ordinances of the city of Los.Angeles, fixing telephone rates, held
not to be unconstitutional either as impairing the obligation of the
contract contained in the franchise, as depriving the corporation
affected of its property without due process of law or as denying
it the equal protection of the law.
155 Fed. Rep. 554, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

HOME TELEPHONE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
211 U. S.

267

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Oscar A. Trippet, with whom Mr. A; Haines was on the
brief, for appellant:
In order to determine the power of the city of 'Los Angeles,
in granting the franchise in question, to enter upon a contract
with the grantee thereof as to rates for telephone service, it is
necessary to examine first the nature and scope of the power
delegated to make the .grant; the express requirements to be
complied with in making it, and the extent of the discretion
left to the granting body.
'As bearing upon the question of such power to contract,
the Broughton Act of March 11, 1901, and the charter of the
.,city of Los Angeles are to be regarded as concurrent laws.
Los Angeles v. Davidson, 150 California, 59, 63. The principle
that the right to compensation is an inseparable incident to
every franchise affected with a public use, must be kept in view.
IThe right to reasonable compensation is an essential and inseparable incident to the exercise of every franchise and privilege affected with a public use. Stockton Gas Co. v. San Joaquin
County, 148 California, 313; 321.; Truckee Turnpike Road v.
Campbell, 44 California, 89; State v. Boston &c. R. R., 25 Vermont, 433; State v. Laclede Gas Co., 102 Missouri, 472; S.C., 15
S. W. Rep. 383; Water Co. v. Los Andgeles, 88 Fed. Rep. 720, 731.
So vital is this right and so absolutely incident is it, that even
when it is left to continuous public regulation, unrestrained
by contract, it comes under the guaranty of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 522-526.
The Broughton Act is vitally related to the power of the
city to contract respecting telephone rates, primarily because
it requires the franchise to be publicly sold by the city council
and in its discretion. The procedure to sell, prescribed by the
statute, is'contractual at every stage.
The requirement in § 3 of the act, that the successful bidder
and his assigns must, during the life of the franchise, pay the
municipality two per cent of the gross receipts, shows that
the act contemplates that terms of sale of the franchise may
embrace an agreement as to rates.

.OCTOBER .TERM,- 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

211 U. S.

Every consideration shows that the Broughton Act conferred power upon the municipalities of the Statb to contract
as to.rates for telephone service.
The legislature has power to confer this authority. Detroit v.
Detroit &c. Ry. 'Co., 184 U. S. 368; Vicksburg v. Vicksburg
Water Works Co., 206 U. S.. 495, 508. The Broughton Act
more specifically contemplates authority to municipalities to
contract than does any statute considered in the following
cases, where the power of the municipalities to contract as
to rates was upheld. Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Water Works Co.,
206 U. S. 497; Los Angeles v. Los Angeles City Water Co., 177
U. S. 558, 570; Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172
U. S. 1, 3, 14; Cleveland v. Cleveland R. Co., 194 U. S. 517;
Cleveland v. Cleveland E. R. Co., 201 U. S. 529, 540-541;
Omaha Water Company v. City of Omaha, 147 Fed. Rep. 1, 5,
12, 13; Santa Ana Water Co. v. Town of San Buena Ventura,
56 Fed. Rep. 339; State v. Laclede Gas Light Co., 102 Missouri,
485; S. C.,, 14 S. W. Rep. 974; City of Bessemer v. Bessemer
Water Works, 40 So. Rep. 662.
The city charter concurs with the Broughton Act in coniferring power upon the city of Los Angeles to contract as to
rates in the sale of a franchise. It expressly confers thc, power
to fix, and determine rates for a definite period. It places no
limitation upon the period for which the council is so empowered to fix and determine telephone rates. The fixing and
determining of rates for a definite period is neither an abandonment nor a suspension of the power to regulate by the exercise of it. Bessemer v. Water Works, 44 So. Rep. 663; Vicksburg v. Water Works Co., 206 U. S.',510; Cal. Reduction Works
v. Sanitary Reduction Works, 199 U. S. 306.
In California the right of a municipality to make a contract
for a term of years, controlling the further exercise of legislative or.governmental power over its subject-matter during such
term, is judicially established. MeBean y.City of Fresno, 112
California, 161; San Francisco Gas Light Company v. Dunn,
62 California, 585; Contra Costa Water Co. v. Breed, 139 Cali-

HOME TELEPHONE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

fornia, 432; Dolan v. Clark, 143 California, 176; Los Angeles
Water Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 88 Fed. Rep. 720; Santa Ana
Water Co. v. Town of San Buena Ventura, 56 Fed. Rep. 339.
The contemporaneous construction of the Broughton Act
and of the powers of the city under its charter are controlling,
and is in favor of our contention.
The ordinance "B," constituting the grant of complainant's franchise, embraces a contract as to maximum rates,
mutually binding upon complainant and defendant.
When all the circumstances preceding, surrounding and
entering into this grant of franchise by the ordinance are considered, it will clearly appear that it constitutes a contract,
fixing maximum rates of charges for the term of the franchise.
Vicksburg v. Water Works Co., 206 U. S. 495; Cleveland v. City
Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517; Detroit v. City St. Ry. Co., 184 U. S.
368, 375, 389; Water Co. v. Omaha, 147 Fed. Rep. 1; Detroit
v. City Ry. Co., 60 Fed. Rep. 161, 171; Bessemer v. Water Works
(Ala.), 44 So. Rep. 663; State v. Laclede Gaslight Co., 102 Missouri, 472; Pingreev. MichiganCentral R. R. Co., 118 Michigan,
314; State v. Yazoo & V. R. Co., 62 Mississippi, 607, 641.
Mr. Leslie R. Hewitt, with whorft Mr. John W. Shenk and
Mr. W. B. Mathews, were on the brief, for appellees:
The State has power to regulate charges for telephone service, and this power may be delegated to municipalities. Munn
v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines,
44 Iowa, 105; People v. Suburban R. R. Co., 178 Illinois, 594;
St. Louis v. Bell Telephone Co., 96 Missouri, 623; McQuillan
on Municipal Ordinances, § 583; Danville v. Danville Water
Co., 180 Illinois, 233..
The city of Los Angeles did not by the franchise ordinance
surrender or suspend its power to regulate appellant's charges
for telephone service. Omaha Water Co. v. Omaha, 147 Fed.
Rep. 1, 5; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 124; Budd v. New York,
143 U. S. 517; Rogers Park Water Co. v..Fergus, 180 U. S. 624,
629; Los Angeles Water Co. v. Los Angeles, 88 Fed. Rep. 721;

270.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinio. of the Court.

211 U. S.

Walla Walla v. Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 15; Central Trust Co. v.
Citizens' Ry. Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 1, 8; Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport, 180,U. S. 587; Danville Water Co. v. Danville, 180 U. S. 619;
Atlantic & Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States, 76 Fed. lRtep. 186.
The regulating ordinance does not contravene any of the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States. San Diego
Water Co. v. San Diego, 118 California, 556; Moore v. Haddonfield, 62 N. J. Law, 386; Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. R. R. Co. v.
St. Bernard, 19 Ohio C. C. Rep. 299; Water Works v. San Francisco, 82 California, 286, 315; Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport,
180 U. 8. 587, 600; FallbrookIrrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164
U. S. 168; Hagarv. Reclamation District,111 U. S. 701; Chicago
&c. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; San Diego Land Co.
v. National City, 174 U. 5. 739, 748.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This ia a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States by the appellant, q.telephone company, against
lie city of Los Angeles, and its officers. The object of the suit
is to.restrain the enforcement of certain ordinances which fixed
the rates to be charged for telephone service; required every
person, firm or corporation supplying telephone sekvice to
furnish annually to the city council a statement, of therevenue
frqm, and expenaitures in, the business, and an itemized inventory of the property used in the business, with its cost and
,value; and provided a penalty for charges in excess of the rates
fixed and for failure to furnish the required statements. The
defendants demurred to the bill, the demurrer was sustained,
aid an appeal was taken directly to this court on the constitutional questions, which will be stated.
The ordinances' complained of were enacted by virtue of the
powers contained in § 31 of the city charter, which is as follows:
"(See. 31.) The Council shall have power, by ordinance, to
regulate and provide for lighting of streets, laying down gas
pipes and erection, of lamp posts, electric towers and other
apparatus, and to rezulate the sale and use of gas and electric

HOME TELEPHONE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

light, and fix and determine the price of gas and electric light,
and the rent of gas meters within the city, and regulate the
inspeetion thereof, and to regulate telephone service, and the
use of telephones within the city, and to fix and determine
the charges for telephones and telephone service, and connections; and to prohibit or regulate the erection of poles for
telegraph, telephone or electric wire in the public grounds,
streets or alleys, and the placing of wire thereon; and to require
the removal from the public grounds, streets or alleys of any
or all such poles, and the removal and placing under ground
of any or all telegraph, telephone or electric wires."
It was decided by the judge of the court below, and is agreed
by the parties, that this section of the charter conferred upon
the city council, in conformity with the constitution and laws
of the State of California, the power to prescribe charges for telephone service. Not doubting the correctness of this view, we accept it without extended discussion. The power to fix, subject
to constitutional limits, the charges of such a business as the furnishing to the public of telephone service is among the powers
of government, is legislative in its character, continuing in its
nature, and capable of being vested in a municipal corporation.
The company, however, insists that the city, having the authority so to do, has contracted with it that it may maintain
the charges for service at a specified standard, and that as the
rates prescribed in the ordinances complained of are less than
that standard, the ordinances therefore impair the obligation
of the contract, in violation of the Constitution of the United States. This is the first question to be considered, and the
facts out of which the contention arises are alleged in the bill
and admitted by the demurrer.
The company obtained its franchise under the provisions of
a statute of the State enacted March 11, 1901 (Stats. 1901,
p. 265'), which was later than the adoption of § 31 of the city
charter. This statute provides that, among other franchises,
1 Known, and referred to in the brief, as the Broughton Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

the franchise "to erect or lay telephone wires

211 U. S.
.

.

.

upon

any public street or highway" shall be granted by municipal
corporations only upon the conditions prescribed in the act.
The conditions enumerated are, that an application for the
franchise shall be filed with the governing body of the municipality, of which advertisement, in the discretion of the city
council, shall be made; that the advertisement must describe
the character of the franchise to be granted and state that it
will be sold to the highest bidder, who must pay annually to the
municipality, after five years, two per cent of the gross annual
receipts of the business; that the franchise shall be struck off
to the highest bidder; and that a bond must be given by the
purchaser to secure the performance of "every term and condition" of the franchise. There are other provisions not material here. By proceedings conforming to this statute a franchise to construct and operate a telephone system for fifty
years was sold to M. Adrian King, which, by assignment, assented to by the city, came into the hands of the plaintiff company, which constructed the works and has since operated
them. The franchise was granted by an ordinance. In the
view we take of the case we need do no more than state very
briefly the main features of the ordinance. It grants a franchise
for fifty years, which is to be enjoyed in accordance with terms
and conditions named, stipulates for certain free service for
the city, and the payment to it, after five years, of two per cent
of the gross receipts, and provides that the charges for service
shall not exceed specified amounts.
This ordinance, enacted by the city council, which exercises
the legislative and business powers of the city, and, as has
been shown, the charter power of regulating telephone service
and of fixing the charges, contains, it is contended, the contract whose obligation the subsequent ordinances: fixing lower
rates, impaired. Two questions obviously arise here. Did the
city council have the power to enter into a contract fixing,
unalterably, during the term of the franchise, charges for telephone- service and disabling itself from exercising the charter

HOME TELEPHONE CO. v.,
LOS ANGELES.
211 U..S.

' 273

Opini6n of the Court.

power of regulation? If so, was such a contract in faet made?
The first of these two questions calls for earlier consideration,
for it is needless to consider whether a contract in fact was made
until it is determined whether the authority to make the contract was vested in the city. The surrender, by contract, of a
power of government, though in cei tain well-defined cases it
tnay be made by legislative authority, is a v*ery grave act, and
the surrender itself, as well as the authority to make it, must
be closely scrutinized. No other body than the supreme legislature (in this -case, the legislature of the State) has the authority to make such a surrender, unless the authority is clearly
delegated to it by the supreme legislature. The genefal powers
of a municipality or of any other political subdivision of the.
State are not sufficient. Specific authority for that purpose is
required. This proposition is sustained by all the decisions of
this court, which will be referred to hereafter, and we need not
delay further upon this point.
It has been settled by this court that the State may authorize one of its municipal corporations to establish by -an
inviolable contract the rates to -be charged by a public service
corporation (or natural person) for a definite term, not grossly
unreasonable in point of time, and that the effect of such a contract is to suspend, during the life of the contract, the governmental power of fixing and regulating the rates. Detroit v.
Detroit Citizens' St. Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, 382; Vicksburg v,
Vicksburg Water Works Co., 206 U. S.496, 508. But for the very
reason. that such a contract has the effect -of extinguishing pro
tanto an undoubted -power of government, both its existence
and the authority to make it must clearly.,and utimistakably
appear, and all doubts must be resolved in favor of the continuance of the power. Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514,
561; Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307, 325; Vicksburg
&c. Railroad Co. v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665; FreeportWater Co. v.
Freeport City, 180 U. S. 587, 599, 611; Stanislaus County v;
San JoaquinC. & I. Co., 192 U. S. 201, 211; Metropolitan Street
Ry. Co. v. New York, 199 U. S. 1. And see Water, Light & Gas
VOL. ccxi-I

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Co. v. Hutchinson, 207 U. S. 385. It is obvious that no case,
unless it is identical in its facts, can serve as a controlling precedent for another, for differences, slight in themselves, may,
through their relation with other facts, turn the balance one
way or the other. Illustrations of the truth of this may be
found in the cases of Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport.City, supra;
Rogers Park Water Co. v. Fergus, 180 U. S. 624, and Knoxville
Water Co. v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434, where no authorized contract was found, as contrasted with Detroit v. Detroit Citizens'
St. Ry. Co., supra, and Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry. Co.,
194 U. S. 517, where a contrary conclusion was reached.
The facts in this case which seem to us material upon the
questions of the authority of the city to contract for rates to
be maintained during the term of the franchise are as follows: The charter gave to the council the power '"by ordinance . . . to regulate telephone service and the use of
telephones within the city, . . . and to fix and determine
the charges for telephones and telephone service and connections." This is an ample authority, to exercise the governmental power of regulating charges, but it is no authority to enter
into a contract to abandon the governmental power itself.
It speaks in words appropriate to describe the authority to
exercise the governmental power, but entirely unfitted to describe the authority to contract. It.authorizes command, but
not agreement. Doubtless, an agreement as to rates might be
authorized by the legislature to be made by ordinance. But
the ordinance here described was not an ordinance to. agree.
upon the charges, but an ordinance "to fix and determine the
charges."
It authorizes t,e exercise of the governmental
power and nothing else. We find no other provision in the
charter which by any possibility can be held to authorize a
contract upon this important and vital subject. Those relied
on for that purpose are printed in the margin.'

'Section 2. (Article I.)
"(12.) To manage, control, sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of aiy

HOME TELEPHONE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
211 U, S.

275

Opinion of the Court.

This being the condition of the charter powers, the act of
101, under which the company derived its franchise, was
passed. The first section of that act provided that franchises
"shall be granted upon the conditions in this act provided and
not otherwise."

Here is an emphatic caution against reading

or all the property of the said corporation; and to appropriate the
income or proceeds thereof to the use of the said corporation; provided
that it shall have no power to mortgage or hypothecate its property
for any purpose."
"(17.) To provide and maintain a proper and efficient fire department, and make and adopt such measures, rules and regulations for
the prevention and extinguishment of fires, and for the preservation
of property endangered thereby, as may be deemed expedient."
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"(22.) To make and enforce within its limits such local, police,
sanitary and other regulations as are not in conflict with general laws

and are deemed expedient to maintain the public peace, protect property, promote the public morals and to preserve the health of its inhabitants."
"(23.) To exercise all municipal powers necessary to the complete
and efficient management and control of the municipal property, and
for the efficient administration of the municipal government, whether
such powers be expressly enumerated herein or not, except such powers
as are forbidden or are controlled by general law."
"(24.) The powers conferred by this article shall be exercised by
ordinance, except as hereiniafter provided."
"(Section 12, Article III.) All legislative power of the city is vested
in the Council, subject to the power of veto and approval by the Mayor,
as hereinafter given, and shall be exercised by ordinance; other action
of the Council may be by order upon motion."
".(Sec. 16.) Six members of the Council shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business, but no ordinance shall b, passed or
other act done granting a franchise, making any contract, amuliting any
bill, ordering any work to be done, or supl)lies to be furnished, disposing of or leasing the city property, ordering any assessment for
street improvement, or building sewers, or any other act, to be done
involving the payment of money, or the immctrring of dlebt by the city,
unless two-thirds of the members of the whole Council vote in favor

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

into the act any conditions which are not clearly expressed
in the act itself. In view of this language it cannot be supposed
that the legislature intended that so significant and important
an authority as that of contracting away a power of regulation
conferred by the charter should be inferred from the act in the
absence of a grant in express words. But there is no such grant.
The argument of the appellant that the authority was granted
is based upon the provisions of the act that an application for
the franchise must be filed, and, in the discretion of the council, published; that the publication must state "the character
of the franchise;" that the city is entitled to a percentage of the
receipts; that the grantee must give bond to perform "every
term and condition of such franchise;" that no condition shall
be inserted which restricts competition or favors one person
against another; and that the franchise must be sold to the
highest bidder. It is urged that though authority to contract
for the maintenance of rates is not expressed in the act, it is
necessarily implied from these provisions. But we are of the
opinion that there is no such necessary implication, even if
anything less than a clear and affirmative expression would be
sufficient foundation upon which to rest an authority of this
nature. The decisions of this court, upon which the appellant
relies, where a contract of this kind was found and enforced,
all show unmistakably legislative authority to enter into the
contract. In Los Angeles v. Los Angeles City Water Co., 177
U. S. 558, the contract was in specific terms ratified and confirmed by the legislature. In Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' St.
Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, the contract was made in obedience to
an act of the legislature that the rates should be "established
by agreement between said company and the corporate authorities." The opinion of the court, after saying (p. 382),
thereof. All other ordinances may be passed by a vote of a majority
of the whole Council."
"(Sec. 33.) It shall, by ordinance, provide for maintaining a fire
alarm and police telegraph system, and for the cleaning and sprinkling
of gradeI and accepted streets."

HOME TELEPHONE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"It may be conceded that clear authority from the legislature
is needed to enable the city to make a contract or agreement
like the ordinance in question, including rates of fare," pointed
out (p. 386) that "it was made matter of agreement by the express command of the legislature." In Cleveland v. Cleveland
City Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517, the legislative authority conferred
upon the municipality was described in the opinion of the court
(p. 534) as "comprehensive power to contract with street railway companies in respect to the terms and conditions upon
which such rodds might be constructed, operated, extended and
consolidated." In Cleveland v. Cleveland Electric Ry., 201
U. S. 529, precisely the same authority appeared. In Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Water Works Co., 206 U. S. 496, the court said
(p. 508): "The grant of legislative power upon its face is unrestricted, and authorizes the 'city to provide for the erection
and maintenance of a system of waterworks to supply said
city with water, and to that end to contract with a party or
parties who shall build and operate waterworks.' " Moreover, in this case the construction of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi of its own statutes was followed. On the other
hand, it was held in Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport City, 10
U. S. 587, that two acts of the legislature passed on successive
days, authorizing municipalities to "contract for a supply of
water forpublic use for a period not exceeding'thirty years,"
and to authorize private persons to construct waterworks
"and maintain the same at such rates as may be fixed by ordinance, and for a period not exceeding thirty years," did not
confer an authority upon the municipality to contract that
the water company should be exempt from the exercise of the
governmental power to regulate rates. In this case, too, the
construction of the highest court of the State was followed.
See Rogers Park Water Co. v,. Fergus, 180 U. S.624. All these
cases agree that the legislative authority to the municipality
to make the contract must clearly and unmistakably appear.
It does not so appear in the ease at bar. The appellant has
failed to show that the city hd legislative authority to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

a contract of exemption from the exercise of the power of regulation conferred in the charter. It therefore becomes unnecessary to consider whether such a contract i fact was made.
The appellant's contention, that there was a violation of the
obligation of its contract, must therefore be denied.
The appellant also contends that the ordinances fixing rates
are wanting in due process of law, and therefore violate the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, because the section (31) of the charter, under whose
authority they were enacted, does not 'expressly provide for
notice and hearing before action. But rate regulation is purely
a legislative function and, even where exercised by a subordinate body upon which it is conferred, the notice and hearing
essential in judicial proceedings and, for peculiar reasons, in
some forms of taxation (see Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 373)
would not seem to be indispensable. It may be that the authority to regulate rates, conferred upon the city council by
§ 31 of the charter, is not an authority, arbitrarily, and without investigation, to fix rates of charges, and that if charges
were fixed in that manner the act would be beyond the authority of the council. It is not unlikely that the California
courts would give this construction to the ordinance. San
Diego Water Co. v. San Diego, 118 California, 556. Acting
within the authority thus limited it would seem that the character and extent of the investigation made and notice and
hearing afforded, in the exercise of this legislative function,
would be left to. the discretion of the body exercising it. It
must not be forgotten that, presumably, the courts of the
States, and certainly the courts of the United States, are open
to those who complain that their property has been confiscated
by an act of regulation of this kind, ahd that the latter courts
will, under all circumstances, determine for themselves whether
such confiscation exists. But we need not now decide whether
notice, and hearing were required. Both were given in this
case. , An ordinance of the city provided that the rates should
be,fixed at a regular and special meeting of the city council

HOME TELEPHONE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
21i U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

held during the month of February of each year, and another
ordinance, as has been shown, required the telephone company
to render annually, in the month of February, to the city
council a statement of its receipts, expenditures and property
employed in the business, facts which would be material on
the question of fixing reasonable rates. This shows that a
sufficient notice and hearing were afforded to the appellant,
if it had chosen to avail itself of them, instead of declining to
furnish all information, as it did. If notice and an opportunity
to be heard were ihdispensable, which we do not decide, it is
enough that, although the charter be silent, such notice and
hearing were afforded by ordinance, as in this case. So, it was
held in Paulsen v. Portland, 149 U. S. 30, 38, and it was held
in San Diego Land Company v. National City, 174 U. S. 739,
that the kind of notice and hearing (in that case provided by
statute) which the ordinance in this case afforded was sufficient. For these reasons the contention of the appellant on
this part of the case is denied.
We do not understand that an objection to the ordinance
requiring the statement of the appellant's receipts, expenditures and property is made, except in so far as it is a step in
the rate-making process. If a further objection is made we
see nothing in it. See San Diego Land Co. v. National City,
supra.
The appellant further insists that the city council is not an
impartial tribunal, because, in effect, it is a judge in its own
case. It is too late, however, after the many decisions of this
court, which have either decided or recognized that the governing body of a city may be authorized to exercise the ratemaking function, to ask for a reconsideration of that proposition. In this connection the appellant calls attention to the
fact that by the charter of the city twenty-five per cent of the
electors may recall a member of the council and require him
again to stand for election. Nevertheless, he takes part in the
rate-making function under his personal responsibility as an
officer, and it cannot be presumed, as matter of law, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

keener sense of dependence upon the will of the people, which
this feature of his tenure of office brings to him, will distort his
judgment and sense of justice. It would be conceivable, of
course, that the members of the legislature themselves might
be subjected to the same process of recall, but it hardly would
be contended that that fact would lessen the legislative power
vested in them by the constitution and laws of the State.
The charter of the city also contains a provision that upon
petition of fifteen per cent of the voters of the city any ordinance proposed must be submitted to the people and may be
by them adopted. It is said, therefore, that the power of rate
regulation might be, in this manner, exercised directly by the
electorate at large. It may well be doubted whether such a
result was contemplated by the legislature. There are certainly grave objections to the exercise of such a power, requiring a careful and minute investigation of facts and figures,
by the general body of the people, however intelligent and
right-minded. But the ordinance was not adopted in this
manner in this case, and it will be time enough for the courts of
the States and of the United States to consider, when that is
done, whether the objections only go to the expediency of
such a method of regulation or reach deeper and affect its
constitutionality.
Passing the questions of power, the appellant contends that
it was denied the equal protection of the laws, because, contemporaneously with the fixing of rates for it, different rates
were fixed for another telephone company doing business
within the city. The only information we have on the subject
is in the allegations of the bill, that a competitor of the complainant engaged in like business was allowed to charge' for
telephone service sums greatly in excess of those prescribed
by the ordinance, and that these rates discriminated against
the complainant and deprived it of the equal protection of the
laws. An important question is thus suggested, but we think
the allegations are so vague that we cannot pass upon it.
Whether the two companies operated in the same territory,

HOME TELEPHONE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or afforded equal facilities for communication, or rendered the
same services does not appear. For aught that appears, the
other company may have brought its patrons into communication with a very much lArger number of persons, dwelling in
a much more widely extended'territory, and rendered very
much more valuable services. In other words, a just ground
for classification may have existed. Every presumption should
be indulged in favor of the constitutionality of the legislation.
In Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 392, it was said: "But in determining whether the legislature, in a particular. enactment,
has passed the limits of its constitutional authority, every
reasonable presumption must be indulged in favor of the
validity of such enactment. It must be regarded as valid,
unless it can be clearly shown to be in conflict with the Constitution. It is a well settled rule of constitutional exposition
that if a statute may or may not be, according to circumstances,
within the limits of legislative authority, the existence of the
circumstances necessary to support it must be presumed."
It is to be taken into account in considering this, as well as
other questions, that the appellant has declined to furnish to
the council facts within its knowledge which-would enable the
council to exercise their powers intelligently and justly, and
that there is no suggestion in the case at bar that the rates
actually fixed were so low as to operate as a practical confiscation of property.
For the foregoing reasons we are of the opinion that the
action of the court below in sustaining the demurrer was correct, and the decree is
Affirmed.

