OCTOBER TERM, 1908..
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

are too long to be copied and difficult to summarize. They are
set out in the opinion of the Court of Appeals, and it will be
seen from them that those given by the court, which-were
not objected to, embodied all, as the Court of Appeals held,
that was contained in the instruction refused, adapted to the
testimony and the consideration which the jury might give
to its various phases.

Jud 'mentafimd

PRENTIS et al., CONSTITUTING THE STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION OF VIRGINIA, v. ATLANTIC
COAST LINE COMPANY.
SAME v. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
SAME v. CHESAPEAKE WESTERN RAILWAY.
SAME v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
SAME v. NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
SAME v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

Nos. 270, 271, 272, 273, 274, 275. Argued October 16, 19, 20, 1908.Decided November 30, 1908.
So far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, a State may, by constitutional provision, unite legislative and judicial powers in the same
body.
A judicial inquiry investigates, declares and enforces liabilities as they
stand on present or past facts and under existing laws, while legislation looks to the future and changes conditions, making new rules
to be thereafter applied.
The making of a rate by a legislative body, after hearing the interested
parties, is not res judicata upon the validity of the rate when questioned by those parties in a suit in a court. Litigation does not arise
until after legislation; nor can a State make such legislative action
res judicata in subsequent litigation.

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Proceedings legislative in nature are not proceedings in a court within
the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 720, no matter what may be the character of the body in which they take place.
Whether a railroad rate is confiscatory so as to deprive the company of
its property without due process of law within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment depends upon the valuation of the property,
the income derivable from the rate, and the proportion between the
two, which are matters of fact which the company cannot be prevented from trying before a competent tribunal of its own choosing.
Where a state railroad commission, which is granted power by the
state constitution to make and enforce rates, enacts and attempts
to enforce rates which are so low as to be confiscatory, the proper
remedy is by bill in equity to enjoin such enforcement, and such a
suit against the members of the commission will not be bad as one
against the State, but it should not be commenced until the rate
has been fixed by the body having the last word.
While a party does not lose his ,right to complain of action under an
unconstitutional law by not using diligence to prevent its enactment, on a question of'railroad rates, when an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State from an order of the State Corporation Commission fixing such rates is given by the state constitution, it is proper
that dissatisfied railroads should take this matter to the Supreme
Court of their State before bringing a bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States. Under the circumstances of this case action on a
bill was suspended to await the result of such an appeal.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Anderson, Attorney General of the State
of Virginia, Mr. John W. Daniel and Mr. A. Caperton Braxton, for appellants:
Regulation of transportation companies, particularly as to
intrastate rates is an essential attribute of the State government, a legitimate and necessary part of the police power, to be
exercised by such body as the State may select and clothe with
the necessary powers. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Granger
Cases, 94 U. S. 155; Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307;
Smythe v. Ames, 169 U. S. 523; Minn. &c. .R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257; Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154 U. S.
362, 394, 413; St. Louis &c. R. R. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 658.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellants.

211 U. S.

The experience of the States through more than half a century of governmental dealings with such companies had demonstrated that these powers and duties of regulation could not
be efficiently, or satisfactorily exercised by an ordinary legislature, or by a body invested merely with executive or administrative powers, not proceeding judicially, nor according
to the parties in interest due process of law, and equal protection of the laws, as required by the Fourteenth Amendment.
It had been also demonstrated that the ordinary courts of
the country could not afford adequate relief for a situation so
difficult and complex. Such a court might determine that a
particular rate or schedule of rates was unjust, unreasonable
and illegal, because confiscatory; but it could not prescribe
the rate or schedule which should be adopted. Any redress
such courts could give was and is purely negative in its character, and absolutely inadequate to meet the requirements
of conditions which demand constant supervision and prompt
and positive relief.
The Virginia State Corporation Commission was accordingly created under the express provisions of the Virginia
constitution, and endowed by it and by the statutes subsequently passed with all necessary powers.
It was constituted therefore in the first place as a judicial
tribunal, distinctly and expressly a court in respect to its more
important functions, equipped with all the machinery and
invested with all of the powers of a court within its broad but
special jurisdiction. It is in fact and in law a court.
In ascertaining and deciding what intrastate rates are just
and reasonable, the commission acts judicially, and after ample
notice to all parties in interest accords all appropriate judicial
process, and all due process of law, every opportunity to be
heard, and a full and fair trial.
As a further protection against possible injustice, an appeal
of right to the Supreme Court of Appeals is given to any aggrieved party, and if denied by that appellate court any right
assured by the Constitution and laws of the United States,

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

redress may be had by invoking the paramount jurisdiction
of this court.
While its most important powers and duties in determining
rates are judicial, the tribunal is also endowed with extra
judicial powers, .essential to the just and effective regulation of such companies-technically defined as "legislative,"
namely, the power of tentatively proposing, and after having
judicially investigated, considered and ascertained the rates
which are just and reasonable, of formally prescribing the rates
so judicially ascertained to be reasonable and just.
This commission was so constituted not to evade, but to do,
justice; not to oust the jurisdiction of any court which could
afford adequate relief, but to give to the transportation companies and to the Commonwealth a tribunal appropriately
clothed with complex powers to deal justly and effectively
with complex problems, and a complex subject.
The commission is a valid tribunal.
It is sanctioned by the state constitution, for it is the creature of that instrument.
It is not repugnant to the Federal Constitution; it not only
does not deny, but is required to accord, to litigants, due process
of law and the equal protection of the laws, and to give as full
and fair a hearing and trial as it would be possible for any
court to give. Nor does, nor can it, without committing reversible error, deprive any one of the equal )rotection of the
laws.
The Federal Constitution does not inhibit the blending by
the States of the powers of two, or even of all three of the
great departments of government in the hands of a single
officer or a single official body: See Tinsley v. Anderson, 171
U. S. 101, 106; Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307:
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 394,
413; St. Louis &c' R: R. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 658; Snythe v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 524; Minneapolis & St.- L. R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257; Missouri R. R. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S.
209; Barbier v. ConaIly, 113 U. S. 32; Soon Hing v. Crowley,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellants.

211 U. S.

113 U. S. 703; Kentucky Ry. Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321;
Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 606; Orient Ins. Co. v.
Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, 562; Atchison,,, Topeka & Santa F6
R. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 95; Fischer v. St. Louis,
194 U. S. 361; Fidelity Mut. Life Association v. Mettler,
185 U. S. 308, 325, 327; Spring Valley Water Works Co. v.
Schottler, 110 U. S. 347, 354; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Nebraska,
170 U. S. 57, 75, 76; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 503; Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S.
316, 324; Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 108, 109;
Public Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, 508, 509;
Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 57, 84; Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S.
505, 507.
These suits are in contravention of §720, Rev. Stat. The
commission being thus to all intents and purposes a validly
constituted court, the grant of an injunction as prayed for by
appellees, is in direct violation of that section which forbids
any United States court from granting a writ of injunction to
stay proceedings in any court of a State, except where such
injunction may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy. Peck et al. v. Jenness et al., 7 How. 612,
and cases there cited; Harkrader v. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148;
United States v. Parkhurst-DavisMercantile Co., 176 U. S. 317;
Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U. S. 254-257.
The doctrine of res judicata applies. Whether the cominission be regarded as a court, or as a legislative body, or whatever its distinctive characteristics as related to the great departments of government, it is unquestionably a tribunal fully and
validly einpowered by the constitution and laws of Virginia,
and under the Constitution and laws of the United States, to
hear, try, and finally determine the very case which it did hear
and try during the twelve months prior to April 27, 1907, and
did adjudicate and decide by its final findings, order, and
judginnt rendered' and pronounced upon that day, which
findings, order, and judgment were and are conclusive upon
the appellees here, the defendants in that proceeding, and upon

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

the world; and under the Constitution and laws of the United
States and of Virginia, can be reviewed or reversed only upon
appeal taken in the manner provided by the Constitution and
laws of Virginia and of the United States.
All matters and questions presented by the bills in these
causes, or on the merits, were presented in the Virginia Passenger Rate Case already decided by said commission on April 27,
1907.
As the acts or findings of a town council, or of any tribunal
whatsoever, however humble or important, done in the exercise
of a lawfully conferred discretion, and within the scope of their
validly conferred authority, can never be either directly or
collaterally attacked for errors of judgment, of law, or of fact,
by any court, State or Federal, however exalted, except in
such manner as may be prescribed by law, so the acts and
findings of the Virginia State Corporation Commission, done
within the limits of its lawful authority and jurisdiction, cannot be attacked or impeached except upon -appeal to the Supreme Court of Virginia, or to the Supreme Court of the United States in the manner provided by law.
These suits, in their last analysis, are suits against the State,
and cannot be maintained. The members of the commission
have no personal or individual connection with the subjectmatter of these suits, no personal interest whatever in the suits
or in the proceedings and order and judgment -hich it is the
object of these suits to impeach. They constitute the official
personnel of the corporation commission, an integral codrdinate department of the state government, and only as such
are impleaded here. Ex parte Ayers, 123 U. S. 443; Louisiana
v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769;
Cunningham v. Macon & B. R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 446; Haygood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52; Filts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516;
Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 440; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185

U. S. 386.
For the Federal court to entertain these suits operates as
a gteat injustice to the State of Virginia. It is a hardship

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellees.

211 U. S.

and a grievous wrong to her for any court, after these matters
have already been exhaustively litigated before the state
tribunal and after fair trial brought to final decision there,
to require these matters to be again, at great inconvenience
and enormous cost to Virginia, litigated, and not only this,
but permit the appellees to "mend their hold," and to make
up a new case.
On the other hand, no hardship or injustice whatever will
be done to the appellees by remanding them to their ample
remedy by appeal from the judgment of the commission to
the supreme court of the State and thence, if they find occasion for it, to this court by writ of error.
The sections of the Virginia constitution and the statutes
from which the commission derives its existence and its
powers, violate no provisions of the Federal Constitution, are
in conflict with no principle essential to the preservation of
liberty, but are competent, valid, and constitutional enactments; the judgments and orders of the tribunal thus constituted, cannot be collaterally attacked in the United States
Circuit, or in any other, court, and can only be reviewed,
brought in question, and if erroneous, be reversed and set
aside, by the court of appeals of the State, or by this court in
the regular and orderly mode of procedure by appeal prescribed by the Constitution and laws of the State, and of the
United States.
Mr. Alfred P. Thom, for appellees, with whom Messrs. Alexander Hamilton, William B. McIlwaine, Henry T. Wickham,
Henry Taylor, Jr., S. S. P. Patteson, Geo. H. Taylor, H. L.
Stone, Jos. I. Doran) Lucian H. Cocke and John K. Graves were
on the briefs. Mr. Henry L. Stone filed a separate brief for
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company on the arbitrary
classification by the State Corporation Commission of Virginia in fixing the rates complained of:
It is unnecessary to discuss whether the rates complained
of are confiscatory, the fact that they are confiscatory being

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

admitted by the pleadings of the appellants for the purposes
of these cases. No question was made in the Circuit Court,
and none is made here, as to the truth of the allegations of
the several bills of complaint, the truth of these allegations
being for the purposes of these cases admitted by the pleadings
and the entire objection insisted on by the appellants being to
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. The bills filed in the
Circuit Court show grounds of Federal jurisdiction. The
allegations of each of the bills show a case of confiscation, and
the bills of The Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, Norfolk & Western Railway Company and Southern Railway Company allege the necessary facts to show that the rates complained of violate a valid contract between them and the
State of Virginia. City Railway Co. v. Citizens' Ry. Co., 166
U. S. 557; Walla Walla City v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172
U. S. 1; Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368.
Even on the argumentative concession that the Virginia commission is a constitutional body, notwithstanding the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
its members were in this case subject to be enjoined by the
Circuit Court.
The Virginia commission is vested by the Virginia constitution [§ 156, (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h),] with the full power
of the State over transportation companies in their public
relations, and is the department through which the whole
body of the State's laws in respect to them is administered.
Norfolk & Portsmouth Belt Line R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 103
Virginia, 294. The commission possesses the whole power of
confiscation from the initial to the final step.
It is not competent for the State of Virginia, even if it tried,
to accomplish an invasion of property rights in violation of
the Constitution of the United States by the device of conferring the power of confiscation on a tribunal which it denominates a court. Whether or not the Federal Circuit Court has
power to enjoin an unconstitutional invasion of property
rights attempted by state officers depends on the character of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellees.

211 U. S.

the act sought to be enjoined, and not on the title of the officer
or of the tribunal attempting to perform it. Marbury v.
Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; Gordon v. United States, 117 U. S. 697;
Weil v. Calhoun, 25 Fed. Rep. 865; August Busch & Co. v.
Webb, 122 Fed. Rep. 665; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v.
Brown, 123 Fed. Rep. 948; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Myatt,
98 Fed. Rep. 341;, Ex parte Candee, 48 Alabama, 399; Roley v.
Prince George's County, 92 Maryland, 163; Upshur County v.
Rich, 135 U. S. 467, 473; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339;
McNeill v. Southern -Railway Co., 202 U. S. 543, affirming
Southern Railway Co. v. Greensboro Ice &c. Co., 134 Fed. Rep.
82.
If an act is in essence legislative, the fact of a notice and
hearing does not constitute the body performing it a judicial
body, and does not make the act a judicial act. The contention of appellants that the notice and hearing before the act is
made, and as part of the process of performing the act of
establishing a rate is "anticipatory litigation" and judicial
in character is unsound. Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Commonwealth v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 106 Virginia, 61; Southern
Ry. Co. v. Commonwealth, 107 Virginia, 771; Chicago, M. &
St. P. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 460; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Board of R. R. Commissioners, 78 Fed. Rep. 236, 259, 260;
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati &c. R. Co., 167
U. S. 499; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S.
168; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Myatt, 98 Fed. Rep. 341, 342,
345; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Smith, 110 Fed. Rep. 473; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Brown, 123 Fed. Rep. 948; Chicago
&c. R. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; Chicago &c. R. Co. v.
Becker, 35 Fed. Rep. 883; Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Keyes, 91
Fed. Rep. 47; Metropolitan Trust Co. v. Houston &c. R. Co.,
90 Fed. Rep. 683; Kansas City S. R. Co. v. Board of R. R.
Commissioners, 106 Fed. Rep. 353; Wallace v. Arkansas Central R. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 422; Houston &c. R. Co. v. Storey,
149 Fed. Rep. 499; Perkins v. Northern Pacific R. Co., 155

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Fed. Rep. 445; Railroad Commission of La. v. Texas &c. R.
Co., 144 Fed. Rep. 68; Mississippi R. R. Commission v. Illinois Central fl. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Norwalk Street Ry. Co.'s
Appeal, 69 Connecticut, 176; United States v. Ferreira, 13
How. 40; McNeil v. Sou. Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543.
If a State ky requiring a notice and hearing as preliminary
legislation could make judicial that which in essence is
lto
legislative, it could by a very simple device destroy the jurisdiction in equity of the Federal courts. Whether or not a
tribtinal is a court within the meaning of § 720, when taking
.any action thiat.may.,be under consideration is necessarily a
:.question for the *United -States courts to determine. At the
time the bills in these cases were filed no court had taken jurisdiction of the matters in controversy. See cases cited in
preceding paragraph. The writ of injunction furnishes no prototype to show that the making of rates is a judicial function.
The propositions advanced by appellants based upon § 720,
Rev. Stat., were made by counsel in the Reagan Case, 154
U. S.362; and overruled by-th court-,
The constitution of Virginia has not attempted to make
the commission a court while engaged in rate-making or in
the proceedings preparatory thereto. Various provisions of
Virginia constitution examined. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v.
Commonwealth, 102 Virginia, 621; Southern Ry. Co. v. Commonwealth, 107 Virginia, 771. The Virginia commission not
being a court when making rates, neither its order establishing the rates nor its conclusions on matters of fact or law leading up to it are res judicata, and its members are not protected
by §720 of the Revised Statutes from injunction issuing from
the, Federal court when attempting to enforce a confiscatory
rate.

Due process of law requires that the company complaining
of a rate shall, after it is fixed, have the right to a judicial investigation by due process of law, under the form and with
the machinery provided by the wisdom of successive ages for
an investigation judicially of the truth of the matter in con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellees.

211 U. S.

troversy. Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S.
172; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 456,
458, 461; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 526, 527; Ex .parte Young,
209 U. S. 166; St. Louis &c. R. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649, 659,
666. Due process of law must be such a proceeding as is appropriate to the nature of the case. What is sufficient for one
case may be inapplicable to and insufficient in another. Cooley,
Constitutional Limitations (7th ed.), 502, 506; Chicago &c.
R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 240; Hagar v. Reclamation Dist.,
111 U. S. 708; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 107. What is
necessary to due process of law in a rate case is very different
from what is required in a tax case. Chicago &c. R. Co. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 460; State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.
613; Murray v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 How. 282; Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 166.
The appeal provided for in the Virginia constitution to the
Supreme Court of Appeals of. the State from the commission's
action in making the rates complained of does not constitute
due process of law, and does not destroy the equity jurisdiction of the Federal court. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 474;
Mississippi Mills v. Cohn, 150 U. S. 204; Reagan v. Farmers',
Loan & Trust Co., 154 U.S. 391; U. S. Statutes, 25 Stat. L. 434.
The Circuit Court of the United States had jurisdiction in
equity to consider and determine these cases, notwithstanding
an appeal allowed by the state laws. Chicago &c. R. Co. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 460; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 142, 143,
166; Reagan v. Farmers' .Loan & Trust Co., 154 U., S. 400;
Posthumous note of Chief Justice Taney in Gordon v. United
States, Appendix, 117 UT S. 697- Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S.
415. Equity has jurisdiction in such cases in the interest of
the public so that an 'orderly and comprehensive settlement
may be rZade as a basis of doing a business essential to the
public welfare; Chicago, AM. & St. P. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134
U. S. 460; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 166; and also to prevent
a multiplicity'of actions. See above cases.
The contention of appellants that the act sought to be en-

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

joined is part of a legislative act, and hence cannot be enjoined, is unsound. Southern PacificCo. v. Board of R. R. Commissioners, 78 Fed. Rep. 246; State ex rel. Morris v. Mason, 43
La. Ann. 590; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347; High on Injunctions, § 135; Wolfe v. McCaull, 71 Virginia, 876; Wise v.
Bigger, 79 Virginia, 269; Reed v. Mayor &c. of Woodcliff (N. J.),
60 Atl. 1128; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866;
Northern Pacific Co. v. Keyes, 91 Fed. Rep. 47; Minneapolis
Street Ry. Co. v. City of Minneapolis, 155 Fed. Rep. 992; McChord v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 183 U. S. 497; Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; Mississippi v. Johnson, 4
Wall. 498; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 159; Alpers v. San Francisco &c. R. Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 503; New Orleans Water Works
Co. v. New Orleans, 164 U. S. 481, 482. See Chicago &c. R.
Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 235.
The order of the commission was a finality and the bills were
not prematurely filed. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 102 Virginia, 599; Southern Ry. Co. v. Commonwealth,
107 Virginia, 771; McNeill v. Southern By. Co., 202 T1. S. 543;
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Chicago
&c. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 168; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v.
Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Keyes, 91
Fed. Rep. 47; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Becker, 35 Fed. Rep. 833;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Myatt, 98 Fed. Rep. 335.
The Virginia system deprives appellees of the equal protection of the laws, in that it denies to transportation companies access to courts of equity, declared by the Supreme
Court of the United States to be the proper, if not the only,
mode of judicial relief against a multiplicity of suits, while
all other interests in the State are given such remedy in equity
and such defense. Gulf &c. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Minnesota,
134 U. S. 460; Railway Company v. Gill, 156 U. S. 666; Detroit
v. Detroit Citizens' Street R. Co., 184 U. S. 381; Haverhill Gaslight Company v. Barke, 109 Fed. Rep. 694.
Independently of -the foregoing, however, the commission,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellees.

211 U. S.

because the Virginia constitution undertakes to unite in it
the whole power of the State, legislative, executive and judicial, in respect to the rates in controversy, is by the law of
its creation made a partial tribunal, and therefore its judgments cannot satisfy the requirements of due process of law.
The law creating this union of powers, not being separable in
its several provisions conferring them, is itself unconstitutional
under the Fourteenth Amendment, in so far as it confers the
powers referred to. The commission, therefore, can have no
.valid existence. An unconstitutional act is no law, creates
no office and confers no authority. Norton v. Shelby, 118
U. S. 425; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; Dash v.
Van Kleeck, 7 Johns. 447; Story, Constitution (5th ed.), 393;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Myatt, 98 Fed. Rep. 344, 346, 352;
State v. Johnson, 61 Kansas, 603; Norwalk Street Ry. Co's.
Appeal, 69 Connecticut, 576; Paley's Moral Philosophy; Montcs(luieu, "Spirit of Laws," Book 2, c. 6; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95
t". S. 7.33; Ex parteIWall, 107 U. S. 289; Murray's Lessees v.
Hoboken-Land Co., 18 How. 276; Burns v. Multononah R. Co.,
15 Fed. Rep. 183; RailroadTax Cases, 13 Fed. Rep. 752; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 102; Weimer v. Bunberry, 30
Michigan, 201; Dr. Bonhalm's Case, 8 Coke, 118; Violett v.
Alexandria, 92 Virginia, 567; Meyers v. Shields, 61 Fed. Rep.
725; 8 Cyc. 1084; London v. Wood, 12 Mod. 687; Hesketh v.
Braddock, 3 Burr. 1856; Meyer v. City of San Diego, 121 California, 104; Tootle v. Berkley, 60 Kansas, 446; State v. Crane,
30 N. J. L. 394; Washington Insurance Co. v. Price, Hopkins
Ch. 1; Matter of Hancock,, 27 Hun, 78; Lanfear v. Mayor, 4
Louisiana, 97; Cooley, Constitutional Limitations (7th ed.),
413, 594; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 389; Ex parte Ziebold,
23 Fed. Rep. 791. The comparison sought to be made by
counsel for appellants between the Virginia commission and
the English Parliament can have no weight in dc6.rmining
the validity of the commission, l)eause of the vital difference
between the form of government in England and that in the
United States. Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 531; Guthrie

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States," 68, 69.
The appeal provided for to the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia does not avoid the unconstitutionality referred to
in the next preceding paragraph, but is itself invalid under
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, because it unites in the Supreme Court of Appeals
these same objectionable legislative and judicial functions in
respect to the same subject-matter. If one remedy does not
constitute due process of law, doubling it does not constitute
due process of law. Pittsburgh,R. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 427;
Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 508.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are bills in equity brought in the Circuit Court to
enjoin the members and clerk of the Virginia State Corporation
Commission from publishing or taking any other steps to enforce a certain order fixing passenger rates. The bills allege,
with some elaboration of the facts, that the rates in question
are confiscatory, and other matters not necessary to mention,
and set up the Fourteenth Amendment, etc. The defendants
appeared specially, and by demurrer and plea respectively
put forward that the proceedings before the commission are
proceedings in a court of the State, which the courts of the
United States are forbidden to enjoin, Rev. Stats. § 720, and
that the decision of the commission makes the legality of the
rates res judicata. On these pleadings final decrees were entered for the plaintiffs, and the defendants appealed to this
court. Therefore, as the case is presented, it is to be assumed
that the order confiscates the plaintiffs' property and infringes
the Fourteenth Amendment if the matter is open to inquiry.
The question principally argued, and the main question to be
.discussed, is whether the order is one which, in spite of its
constitutional invalidity, the courts of the United States are
not at liberty to impugn.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

The State Corporation Commission is established and its
powers are defined at length by the constitution of the State.
There is no need to rehearse the provisions that give it dignity
and importance or that add judicial to its other functions,
because we shall assume that for some purposes it is a court
within the meaning of Rev. Stats. § 720, and in the commonly
accepted sense of that word. Among its duties it exercises
the authority of the State to supervise, regulate and control
public service corporations, and to that end, as is said by the
Supreme Court of Virginia and repeated by counsel at the
bar, it has been clothed with legislative, judicial and executive
powers. Norfolk & Portsmouth Belt Line R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 103 Virginia, 289, 294.
The state constitution provides that the commission, in
the performance of the duty just mentioned, shall from time
to time prescribe and enforce such rates, charges, classification of traffic, and rules and regulations, for transportation
and transmission companies doing business in the State, and
shall .require them to establish and maintain all such public
service, facilities and conveniences, as may be reasonable
and just. Before prescribing or fixing any rate or charge, etc.,
it is to give notice (in case of a general order not directed against
any specific company by name, by four weeks' publication in a
newspaper)' of the substance of the contemplated action and of
a time and place when the commission will hear objections and
evidence against it. If an order is passed, the order again is to
be published as above before it shall go into effect. An appeal
to the Supreme Court of Appeals is given of right to any party
aggrieved, Upon conditions not necessary to be stated, and that
court, if it reverses what has been done, is to substitute such
order as in its opinion the commission should have made.
The commission is to certify the facts upon which its action
was based and such evidence as may be required, but no new
evidence is to be received, and how far the findings of the
commission can be revised perhaps is not quite plain. No
other court of the State can review, reverse, correct or annul

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the action of the commission, and in collateral proceedings the
validity of the rates established by it cannot be called in doubt.
When a rate has been fixed, the commission has power to
enforce compliance with its order by adjudging and enforcing,
by its own appropriate process, against the offending company
the fines and penalties established by law. But a hearing is
required, and the validity and reasonableness of the order
may be attacked again in this proceeding, and all defenses
seem to be open to the party charged with a breach.
On July 31, 1906, under the provisions outlined, the commission published in a newspaper notice to the several steam
railroad companies doing business in Virginia, and all persons
interested, that at a certain time and place it would hear
objections to an order prescribing a maximum rate of two cents
a mile for the transportation of passengers, with details not
needing to be stated. A hearing was had, and the complainants (appellees) severally appeared and urged objections
similar to those set up in the bills. On April 27, 1907, the commission passed an order prescribing the rates, but in more
specific form. For certain railroads named, including all of
the complainants except as we shall state, the rate was to be
two cents; for certain excepted branches of the Southern Railway Company, two and half; for others, including the Chesapeake Western Railway, three; and for others three and a
half cents a mile, with a minimum charge of ten cents. Publication of the order was directed, and at that stage these bills
were brought.
In order to decide the cases it is not necessary to discuss all
the questions that were raised or touched upon in argument,
and some we shall lay on one side. We shall assume that when,
as here, a state constitution sees fit to unite legislative and
judicial powers in a single hand, there is nothing to hinder so
far as the Constitution of the United States is concerned.
Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S.71, 83, 84; Winchester & Strasburg
R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 106 Virginia, 264, 268. We shall
assume, as we have said, that some of the powers of the coinVOL. CCXI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opiion of the Court.

211 U. S.

mission are judicial, and we shall assume, without deciding,
that, if it was proceeding against the appellees to enforce
this order and to punish them for a breach, it then would be
sitting as a court and would be protected from interference
on the part. of courts of the United States.
But we think it equally plain that the proceedings drawn
in question here are legislative in their nature, and none the
less so that they have taken place with a body which at another moment, or in its principal or dominant aspect, is a
court such as is meait by § 720. A judicial inquiry investigates, declares and enforces liabilities as they stand on present or past facts and under laws supposed already to exist,
That is its purpose and end. Legislation on the other hand
looks to the future and changes existing conditions by making
a new rule to be applied thereafter to all or some part of those
subject to its power. The establishment of a rate is the making of a rule for the future, and therefore is an act legislative
not judicial in kind, as seems to be fully recognized by the
Supreme Court of Appeals, Commonwealth v. Atlantic Coast
Line Ry. Co., 106 Virginia, 61, 64, and especially by its learned
President in his pointed remarks in Winchester and Strasburg
R. R. Co. and others v. Commonwealth, 106 Virginia, 264, 281.
See further Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati,New
Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479, 499, 500, 505;
San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 440.
Proceedings legislative in nature are not proceedings in a
court within the meaning of Rev. Stats. § 720, no matter what
may be the general or dominant character of the body in which
they may take place. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greensboro Ice &
Coal Co., 134 Fed. Rep. 82, 94, affirmed sub nom. McNeill v.
Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543. That question depends not
upon the character of the body but upon the character of the
proceedings. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 348. They are
not a suit in which a writ of error would lie under Rev. Stats.
§ 709, and Act of February 18, 1875, c. 80, 18 Stat. 318. See
Upshur County v. Rich, 135 U. S. 467; Vvallacc v. Adams, 204

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 415, 423. The decision upon them cannot be res judicata
when a suit is brought. See Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., 154 U. S. 362. And it does not matter what inquiries may
have been made as a preliminary to the legislative act. Most
legislation is preceded by hearings and investigations. But
the effect of the inquiry, and of the decision upon it, is determined by the nature of the act to which the inquiry and decision lead up. A judge sitting with a jury is not competent
to decide issues of fact; but matters of fact that are merely
premises to a rule of law be may decide. He may find out for
himself, in whatever way seems best, whether a supposed statute ever really was passed. In Pickering v. Barkley, Style, 132,
merchants were asked by the court to state their understand-ing as an aid to the decision of a demurrer. The nature of the
final act determines the nature of the previous inquiry. As
the judge is bound to declare the law he must know or discover
the facts that establish the law. So when the final act is legislative the decision which induces it cannot be judicial in the
practical sense, although the questions considered might be
the same that would arise in the trial of a case. If a state constitution should provide for a hearing before any law should
be passed, and should declare that it should be a judicial proceeding in rem and the decision binding upon all the world,
it hardly is to be supposed that the simple device could make
the constitutionality of the law res judicata, if it subsequently
should be drawn in question before a court of the United States.
And all that we have said would be equally true if an appeal
had been taken to the Supreme Court of Appeals and it had
confirmed the rate. Its action in doing so would not have
been judicial, although the questions debated by it might have
been the same that might come before it as a court, and would
have been discussed and passed upon by it in the same way
that it would deal with them if they arose afterwards in a case
.properly so called. We gather that these are the views of
the Supreme Court of Appeals itself. Atlantic Coast Line Ry.
Co. v. Commonwealth, 102 Virginia, 599, 621. They are irn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

plied in many cases in this and other United States ,courts in
which the enforcement of rates has been enjoined, notwithstanding notice and hearing, and what counsel in this case call
litigation in advance. Legislation cannot bolser itself up in
that way. Litigation cannot arise until the moment of legislation is past. See Southern Ry. Co. v. Commonwealth, 107
Virginia, 771, 772.
It appears to us that the most plausible objection to these
bills is not the one most dwelt upon in argument, but that they

were brought too sooh. Our doubt is a narrow one and its
limits should be understood. It seems to us clear that the
appellees were not bound to wait for proceedings brought to
enforce the rate and to punish them for departing from it.
Those, we have assumed in favor of the appellants would be
proceedings in court and could not be enjoined; while to confine the railroads to them for the assertion of their rights would
be to deprive them of a part of those rights. If the railroads
were required to take no active steps until they could bring a
writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of Appeals
after a final judgment, they would come here with the facts
already found against them. But the determination as to
their rights turns almost wholly upon the facts to be found.
Whether their property was taken unconstitutionally depends
upon the valuation of the property, the income to be derived
from the proposed rate and the proportion between the twopure matters of fact. When those are settled the law is tolerably plain. All their constitutional rights, we repeat, depend upon what the. facts are found to be. They are not to be
forbidden t6 try those facts before a court of their own choosing
if otherwise competent. "A State cannot tie up a citizen of
another State, having property within its territory invaded
by unauthorized acts of its own officers, to suits for redress
in its own courts." Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,
154-U. S.362,391; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.466, 517. See
McNeill v. Southern Railway Co., 202 U. S. 543; Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 165. Other cases further illustrating

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this point are Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Keyes, 91 Fed. Rep. 47; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Myatt, 98 Fed. Rep. 335.
Our hesitation has been on the narrower question whether
the railfoads, before they resorted to the Circuit Court, should
not have taken the appeal allowed to them by the Virginia
constitution at the legislative stage, so as to make it absolutely
certain that the officials of the State would try to establish
and enforce an unconstitutional rule. Considerations of
comity and convenience have led this court ordinarily to decline to interfere by habeas corpus where the petitioner had
open to him a writ of error to a higher court of a State, in
cases where there was no merely logical reason for refusing the
writ. The question is whether somewhat similar considerations ought not to have some weight here.
We admit at once that they have not the same weight in
this case. The question to be decided, we repeat, is legislative,
whether a certain rule shall be made. Although the appeal is
given as a right, it is not a remedy, properly so called. At that
time no case exists. We should hesitate to say, as a general
rule, that a right to resort to the courts could be made always
to depend upon keeping a previous watch upon the bodies that
make laws, and using every effort and all the machinery available to prevent unconstitutional laws from being passed. It
might be said that a citizen has a right to assume that the
constitution will be respected, and that the very meaning of
our system in giving the last word upon constitutional questions to the courts is that he may rest upon that assumption
and is not bound to be continually on the alert against covert
or open attacks upon his rights in bodies that cannot finally
take them away. It is a novel ground for denying a man a
resort to the courts that he has not used due diligence to prevent a law from being passed.
But this case hardly can be disposed of on purely general
principles. The question that we are considering may be
termed a question of equitable fitness or propriety, and must

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

be answered on the particular facts. The establishment of
railroad rates is not like a law that affects private persons who
may never have heard of it till it was passed. It is a matter
of great interest, both to the railroads and to the public, and is
watched by both with scrutinizing care. The railrdads went
into evidence before the commission. They very well might
have taken the matter before the Supreme Court of Appeals.
No new evidence and no great additional expense would have
been involved.
The State of Virginia has endeavored to impose the highest
safeguards possible upon the exercise of the great power given
to the State Corporation Commission, not only by the character of the members of that commission, but by making its
decisions dependent upon the assent of the same historic body
that is entrusted with the preservation of the most valued
constitutional rights, if the railroads see fit to appeal. It seems
to us only a just recognition of the solicitude with which their
rights have been guarded, that they should make sure that the
State in its final legislative action would not respect what they
think their rights to be, before resorting to the courts of the
United States.
If the rate should be affirmed by the Supreme Court of Appeals and the railroads still should regard it as confiscatory,
it will be understood from what we have said that they will be
at liberty then to renew their application to the Circuit Court,
without fear of being met by a plea of res judicata. It will not
be necessary to wait for a prosecution by the commission.
We may add that when the rate is fixed a bill against the
commission 'to restrain the members from enforcing it will
not be bad as an attempt to enjoin legislation or as a suit
against a State, and will be the proper form of remedy.
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; $myth
v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S.167; Hanley v. Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617; McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co.,
202 U. S. 543; Mississippi Railroad Commission v. Illinois

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Central Ry. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.
123.
It is proper before closing to mention one decision that was
relied upon by the appellees, and one or two other matters
peculiar to the cases before the court. In McNeill v. Southern
Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543, the same moment was selected for
bringing suit as in these cases, while an examination of the
laws of North Carolina discloses that there were statutory
provisions for appeal somewhat similar to those in the Virginia
constitution, to which we now are referring. But, apart from
other differences, in that case the ground of the decree was
that the state commission was dealing with a subject-matter
beyond its power; no regulation would have been valid, 202
U. S. 561, and the considerations to which we now are giving
weight naturally were not urged. But this decision suggests
that in three of the present cases an equally potent constitutional bar is alleged against the proceedings of the commission. The Chesapeake and Ohio, the Norfolk and Western
and the Southern Railway Companies all set up general
laws, alleged to be incorporated in their charters and to constitute contracts, providing that, their tolls should not be
diminished except under- conditiofns of fact alleged not to
exist.
If the State has bound itself by contract not to cut down
the rates as contemplated, there would seem to be no reason
why the suit should not be entertained now. See Reagan v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 393. But it would
be premature and is unnecessary to decide whether the State
has done so or not. No rate is irrevocably fixed by the State
until the matter has been laid before the body having the last
word. It'may be that that body will adhere to the old rate
or will establish one that will not be open to the charge of violating the contracts alleged. The contracts alleged do not
prohibit a certain reduction if the profits heretofore realized
have exceeded a certain amount. On the question of contract as on that of confiscation it is reasonable. and proper

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
IULLEER, CH. J.,'dissenting.

211 U. S.

that the evidence should be laid, in the first instance, before
the body having the last legislative word.
There is yet another difficulty in applying to these cases
the comity which it is desirable if possible to apply. The
Virginia statute of April 15, 1903, enacted to carry into effect
the provision of the constitution, requires, by § 34, certain,
if not all, appeals to be taken and perfected within six months
from the date of the order. 1 Pollard's Code of Virginia,
c. 56a, 714. It may be that when an appeal is taken to the
Supreme Court of Appeals this section will be held to apply and
the appeal be declared too late.. We express no opinion upon
the matter, which is for the state tribunals to decide, but
simply notice a possibility. If the present bills should -be dismissed, and then that possible conclusion reached, injustice
might be done. \As our, decision does not go upon a denial of
power to entertain the bills a't the present stage but updn our
views as to what is the most proper and orderly course in cases
of this sort when practicable, it seems to us that the bills,
should be retained for' the present to await the result of the
appeals if the companies see fit to take them. If the appeals
are dismissed as brought too late the companies will be entitled
to decrees. If they are entertained and the orders of the commission affirmed, the bills may be dismissed 'without prejudiceand filed again.
Decrees reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

is of the opinion that the decrees

should be affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, concurring in reversing the
decrees, dissents from the opinion.

I preface what I have to say with a sketch of the recrd in
these cases, abbreviated from the brief of counsel.
The Virginia State Corporation Commission was created and
its functions, powers, duties and the essentials of its procedure

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211'U. S.

FULLER, CH.

J., dissenting.

were prescribed in detail by the constitution of the State as
well as by statute. It was made primarily a judicial court of
record of limited jurisdiction, possessing also certain special
legislative and executive powers. When it proposed to make
a change in a rate of a public service corporation, gr otherwise
to prescribe a new regulation therefor, the commission was
required, sitting as a court, to issue its process, in the nature
of .a rule, against the corporation concerned, requiring it to
appear before the commission at a certain time and place and
show cause, if any it could, why the proposed rate should not
be prescribed. The judicial questioiX involved on the return
to such rule was whether or not the contemplated rate was
confiscatory, or otherwise unjust or unreasonable, and in the
hearing and disposition of this question the proceedings of the
commission as prescribed by law were in every respect the same
as those of any other judicial court of record. It issued, executed and enforced its own writs and processes; it could issue
and enforce writs of mandamus and injunction; it punished
for contempt, aid kept a complete record and docket of its
proceedings; it summoned witnesses and compelled their attendance, and the production of documents; it ruled upon thb
admissibility of evidence; it certified 'any exception to its
rulings; and its judgments, decrees and orders had the' same.
force and effect as those of any other court of record in the
State, and were enforced by its own proper processes. It was
not subject to restraint by any other state court, and from any
and every ruling or decision by it an appeal lay to the Supreme
Court of Appeals of the State, and was heard upon the record
made for and certified by the commission, exactly as in the
ease of appeals from any other court; and pending the decision
of such appeal the order appealed from might by a supersedeas
be suspended in its operation.
Not only do the constitution and laws of Virginia make the
commission a judicial court of record by clothing it with all
the attributes of such a tribunal, but they expressly declare
it a court, and require it to proceed only by due process of law

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
FULLER,

CH. J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

and inquire into and determine every judicial question coming
before it. It has repeatedly held itself to be a court and subject to all the obligations thereof, and the Supreme Court of
Appeals, the highest state judicial tribunal, has formally and
expressly so held.
When this court shall have in the manner above indicated
fully heard all parties interested, and, proceeding by due
process of law as to them, has judicially determined that the
proposed rate or regulation is not confiscatory, nor otherwise
unjust or unreasonable, then, but not until then, it is authorized
by the constitution and laws of Virginia to enter an order
prescribing such rate or regulation, from which order an appeal
lies to the Supreme Court of Appeals, with, as has been said,
the right of suspension by supersedeas pending the appeal.
Assuming that the prescfibing of the rate after it has been
judicially determined to be reasonable is necessarily a legislative act, then the constitution of the State expressly confers
upon this commission the legislative power of prescribing a
rate after it has judicially ascertained and decided it to be not
below the limit of "reasonable."
On July 31, 1906, the State Corporation Commission issued
and caused to be served a notice to the "steam railroad companies doing business in Virginia and all persons interested,"
that, at 12 o'clock noon, on November 1, 1906, at Richmond,
the commission would "hear and consider any objections which
may be urged against a rule, regulation, order or requirement
of the commission fixing and prescribing a maximum rate of
charge of two cents per mile for the transportation of passengers over the line of any railroad company in this State,
operated by steam, between points within the State of Virginia."
Accordingly, on November 1, 1906, the appellee companies
appeared before the commission, and filed their answers in
writing, setting forth why, in their opinion, the proposed. two
cent rate would be less than reasonable.
The commission thereupon entered into a most thorough

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAS'
211 U. S.

FULLER, CH. J.,

LINE.

dissenting.

hearing of this question of the reasonableness of the proposed
rate, in which hearing the appellee companies were represented
by counsel and introduced elaborate evidence.
No evidence was taken or considered, save publicly, in the
open sessions of the commission, when appellees were given
the fullest opportunity (of which they availed themselves) to
be present, to introduce their own testimony, by witnesses
and documents, to cross-examine opposing witnesses, to object
to the introduction of witnesses or documents, and to except
of record to any ruling whatever of the commission.
No evidence was rejected which any railroad company
offered. The hearing was continued for several months, and
the case was not closed until the companies involved had
formally announced, in open, court, that they had nothing
more to offer.
On April 27, 1907, practically six months after the
hearing
began, the commission entered its order (which is the basis
of appellees' complaint in this cause), accompanied with an
elaborate written opinion. giving the grounds therefor.
By this order certain passenger rates-in no case less than
two cents per mile-were prescribed for the defendant railroad companies, to go into effect on July 1, 1907, the commission
being of opinion, and so deciding, that the rates therein fixed
were not confiscatory nor otherwise unjust or unreasonable
to said companies.
The appellee companies refused either to obey the order of
the commission, or to appeal therefrom, and publication of
the order was directed, but before it had been accomplished,
and on May 15, 1907, appellees filed bills in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, to enjoin
the commission from enforcing its order of April 27, 1907, or
taking any other steps therein, and a restraining order was
entered enjoining the members of the commission and their
clerk from further proceeding in the matter until a motion for
an injunction pendente lite could be heard, and requiring them
to appear before the Circuit Judge in Asheville, North Carolina,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
FULLME,

CH. J.,

dissenting.

211 U. S.

on June 27, 1907, to show cause why such injunction should
not be granted. Appellants entered a special and limited appearance, and filed their joint and separate answers to the rule,
in which they denied the jurisdiction of the court.
The cause having been heard on the rule and answers thereto,
the Circuit Judge on July 10, 1907, overruled the objection to
the court's jurisdiction, and granted injunctions pendente lite,
as prayed for. Thereupon the defendant, Prentis, filed his
demurrer, based on substantially the same grounds as those
assigned in the answer to the rule, and the three other defendants filed their joint and separate plea, setting up specifically
that the commission is a court within the purview of § 720 of
the United States Revised Statutes, and on September 10, 1907,
by leave of court, all four of the defendants filed their joint
and separate plea of res judicata.
December 26, 1907, the court overruled the demurrer and
both pleas, and the defendants declining to answer further, a
final decree was on that day entered. in each case taking the
bills pro confesso, and perpetuating the injunctions, with costs.
Thereupon appeals were allowed and prosecuted from said
final decrees.
In my opinion, a preliminary objection is fatal to the maintenance of these bills. It appears on their face that the appellees did not avail themselves of the right of appeal to the Court
of Appeals of Virginia, which was absolutely vested in them by
the constitution and laws of that Commonwealth. Such an
appeal would have brought up the question of the alleged unreasonableness of the designated rate, and appellees cannot
assume that the decision of the commission would necessarily
have been affirmed. If reversed or changed to meet appellees'
views, the whole ground of equity interposition would disappear. In such circumstances it is the settled rule that courts
of equity will not interfere. The transaction must be complete,
and jurisdiction cannot be rested on hypothesis. A fortiori,
this must be so where Federal courts are asked to interfere
with the legislative, executive or judicial acts of a State, unless

PRENTIS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
211'U. S.

FULLER, CH.

J., dissenting.

some exceptional and imperative necessity is shown to exist,
which cannot be asserted here.
Moreover, this is demanded by comity, and what comity
requires is as much required in courts of justice as in anything
else.
"'Comity,' " said Mr. Justice Gray in the leading case of
Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113, 163, "in the legal sense, is
neither a matter of absolute obligation, on the one hand, nor
of mere courtesy and good will, upon the other. But it is the
recognition which one nation allows within its territory to the
legislative, executive or judicial acts of another nation, having
due regard both to international duty and convenience, and
to the rights of its own citizens or of other persons who are
under the protection of its laws."
And as applied to Federal interference with state acts, the
observance of this rule of comity should be regarded as an
obligation. It is recognized as such by § 720 of the Revised
Statutes.
By the constitution of Virginia the commission is vested
with legislative as well as judicial powers, and the, validity
of that union of powers has been repeatedly upheld by the
highest judicial tribunal of that Commbnwealth-the matter
being committed to the determination of the State. It seems
equally true, that whether an adjudication by the commission,
on notice and hearing, that proposed rates are reasonable and
not confiscatory, may lawfully be had prior to the legislative
act of imposing the rates is also a matter for state determination, and at all events that question should, in the first instance, be decided on appeal by the Court of Appeals, I cannot
see why the reasonableness and justness of a rate may not be
judicially inquired into and judicially determined at the time
of the fixing of the rate, as well as afterwards, but that and
kindred questions should be tested as provided by. this con-.
stitution and these laws before the controversy is precipitated
into a Circuit Court of the United States. Power grows -by
what it feeds on, and to hold that state railroad companies can

.238

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

take their chances for the fixing of rates in accordance with
their views in a tribunal provided for that purpose by state
constitutions and laws, and then, if dissatisfied with the result,
decline to seek a review in the highest court of the State,
though possessed of the absolute right to do so, and invoke
the power of the Federal courts to put a stop to such proceedin my opinion, utterly inadmissible and of palpably
ings, is,
dangerous tendency.
also concurring in the reversal of the
decree, but dissenting from the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

I concur in the general observations of the Chief Justice, and
with him dissent from the opinion of the court. But I go
somewhat further than he has done. I hold that the Circuit
Court was entirely without authority, by injunction, to stay
the proceedings of the State Corporation Commission. By
§ 720 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that "the writ of injunction shall not be granted by any court of the United States
to stay proceedings in any court of a State, except in cases
where such injunction may be authorized by any law authorizing proceedings in bankruptcy." Such has been the law
since 1793. In my judgment, the Virginia State Corporation
Commission is, in every substantial sense, a court. It is coilclusively shown to be such by the provisions of the consituti.n
and-laws of Virginia, as interpretqd by the highest court of
Virginia and as summarized in the opinion of the Chief Justice.
Ifthe commission is a court, within the meaning of § 720, then
the Circuit Court of the United States was wholly without
dtithprity to stay the proceedings of that tribunal by the writ
,.of ijiunction. The Circuit Court could not grant the writ of
injunction in face of the act of Congress expressly forbidding
•such action. No One will question the authority of Congress
to prescribe the limits, of the jurisdiction of the courts created
by it.
It is suggested that under this view there is danger that
rights granted or secured by the Constitution may be violated

WILDER v. INTER-ISLAND NAVIGATION CO.
211 U. S.

239

Syllabus.

by the judgment of the commission or by the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of Virginia. A conclusive answer to this
suggestion is that if the final action of the commission, in any
case of rate-making, amounts to confiscation of the property
of the corporation whose rates are regulated, and therefore
is to be held wanting in due process of law as taking private
property for public use without just compensation, and if
such action be sustained by the highest court of Virginia, then
the way is plainly open to bring that question to this court
upon writ of error. Rev. Stat. § 709. In this way any Federal
right, specially set up and denied by the state tribunals, can
be adequately protected by the final judgment of this court.
In my opinion, the decree should be reversed, with direction to dismiss the original suit brought in the Federal court.

WILDER,1 ASSESSOR, v. INTER-ISLAND STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY, LIMITED.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 30.

Submitted October 22, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

Section 4536, Rev. Stat., providing that seamen's wages shall not be
subject to attachment or arrestment, is to be construed in the light
of other provisions of the same title and is to be liberally interpreted
with a view to protcct the seamen; and, as so construed, that section
prevents the seizure of wages not only by attachment before, but
execution after, judgment, and such wages cannot be seized under
§ 2118 of the Laws of Hawaii.
Quavrc and not decided whether the act of June 9, 1874, c. 259, 18 Stat.
64, repealed §4536, Rev. Ntat., so far as vessels engaged in the
coastwise trade are concerned.
17 Hawaii, 416, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
I Substituted for Iolt, Assessor.

