HELVERING v. LE GIERSE.
510

Syllabus.

necessary as well as wise. Moreover, the substitution
of a simple, conservative capital structure for a highly
complicated one may be a primary requirement of any
reorganization plan. There is no necessity to construct
the new capital structure on the framework of the old.
Affirmed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. LE GIERSE ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 237. Argued January 9, 10, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.
1. Within the meaning of § 302 (g) of the Revenue Act of 1926 as
amended, amounts "receivable as insurance" are amounts receivable
as the result of transactions which involved at the time of their
execution an actual insurance risk. P. 537.
2. Risk-shifting and risk-distribution are essentials of a contract of
life insurance. P. 539.
3. A contract in the standard form of a life insurance policy, containing the usual provisions, including those for assignment or
surrender, was issued to a woman of eighty years of age, without
physical examination, for a single premium less than the face
of the policy, together with an annuity policy for another premium
calling for annual payments to her until her death Although
both policies were, on the face, separate contracts, neither referring
to the other, and each Was treated as independent in the matters
of application, computation of premium, report and book entry
of premium payment, maintenance of reserve, etc., they were
issued at the same time, and the making of the annuity contract
was a condition to the issuance of the life policy; and the combined
effect was such that, in case of premature death, the gain to the
insurance company under one would neutralize its loss under the
other. Held:
(1) That the contracts must be considered together. P. 540.
(2) They created no insurance risk. P. 541.

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondents.

312 U. S.

Any risk that the prepayment would earn less than the amount
paid by the insurance company as an annuity was an investment
risk, not an insurance risk.
(3) The amount payable to the beneficiary named in the life
policy, upon the death of the "insured," was not in the scope- of
§ 302 (g), supra, but was properly taxed in the decedent's estate
under § 302 (c) as a transfer to take effect* in possession or enjoyment at or after death. P. 542.
110 F. 2d 734, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 625, to review the affirmance of

a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 39 B. T. A. 1134,
reversing a deficiency assessment of estate tax.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor General Biddle and Messrs. Sewall Key, .J. Louis
Monarch, Richard H. Demuth, and Maurice J. Mahoney
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Frederick 0. McKenzie for respondents.
The life insurance policy and the annuity were separate, distinct, complete contracts. For each there was a
separate application and a separate consideration. Regular, standard forms were used. Neither referred to the
other directly or indirectly; either could have been surrendered without affecting the company's liability under
the other. The company regarded the transactions as
separate and distinct and they wer so reported to the
Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Connecticut,
as required by law. Separate receipts were issued to the
decedent by the company covering payment received by
it for each contract. The consideration, or premium, for
each contract was computed on an actuarial basis and in
accordance with the company's regular schedule of rates.
In other words, in computing the single premium charged
for the life insurance policy, no adjustment or allowance
was made for the annuity premium, and in computing
the annuity premium, no adjustment or allowance was

HELVERING v. LE GIERSE.
531

Argument for Respondents..

made for the insurance premium. The amount received
by
the company as a single premium for the insurance
policy
was credited to its insurance rserve and the
amount received by it for the annuity, to its annuity
reserve. All the legal incidents of ownership enjoyed by
the owner of any ordinary life insurance policy were
vested in the decedent with respect to the policy here
in question and she could have exercised. any or all of
them without reference to the annuity contract.
All the evidence points to an intention of the parties
to enter into a life insurance and an annuity contract,
separate, distinct and independent of each other. Williston, Contracts, 2d Ed., § 628.
Even where the contracting parties combine all their
promises in one document, if the agreement sets forth
separate features, clearly severable, each feature must
be given its proper application. Equitable Life Assur.
Society v. Deem, 91 F. 2d 569, 575; Connecticut General
Life Ins. Co. v. McClellan, 94 F. 2d 445, 446; Downey v.
German Alliance Ins. Co., 252 F. 701, 703, 704; Legg v.
St. John, 296 U. S. 489, 490-495; Bodine v. Commissioner, 103 F. 2d 982, 985. Dist'g Pearson v. McGraw,
308 U. S. 313.
Contracts executed as a condition precedent to, or in
conjunction with, other contracts are commonplace in
business transactions. With respect to the issuance of
the annuity as a condition precedent to the issuance
of the life insurance policy, we think that the court
below covered the point succinctly when it said: "The
fact that she could not have gotten that policy unless
she had also bought an annuity contract does not change
the character of what she got."
The decedent's age and the fact that she was not required to take a physical examination are in no way
material to the issues.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondents.

312 U. S.

We should hesitate to accept any definition of the oftused term "insurance risk." Where insurance risk leaves
off and investment risk begins is also difficult to determine. For example, we know that the investment element is of minor consideration in the low premium term
contract, whereas it becomes a very important factor in
the costly single premium endowment contract.
If the decedent had surrendered her life insurance policy at the end of the first year, a loss or a gain to the
company on the two contracts would depend almost entirely on how long the decedent lived thereafter. The
possibility of such a loss under such circumstances clearly
existed at the time the two contracts were issued.
The fact that the company sought to underwrite the
risk by different means than it ordinarily used in underwriting life insurance policies does not make the policy
something other than life insurance. There is nothing
in the exempting statute which requires that the insurance proceeds be receivable from a particular kind of life
insurance contract, or that the policy be written in any
particular way or conform to any particular standard, or
that it be issued only after a physical examination of the
insured, or that it be written according to any specific
group of underwriting principles. The statute does not
preclude the exemption on any of these grounds, and
expresses no concern with any action the insurance company may take to relieve its underwriting problems or to
minimize the risk in particular cases.
From a standpoint of underwriting, the reason the insurance company here would not have issued the life insurance policy to the decedent without the annuity was
not because of her advanced age, not because she did
not pass a physical examination, but because it would
have been difficult to get a sufficient number of persons
of her age to apply for similar policies and thus be

HELVERING v. LE GIERSE.
531

Argument for Respondents.

brought into the broad average for underwriting purposes. Since it was impractical to sell insurance to a
large class of the age of decedent, the company accepted
in lieu of a physical examination the issuance of the life
annuity.
Petitioner would argue that if this decedent had been
fifty years of age instead of eighty and had voluntarily
purchased the annuity along with the policy, she would
have received neither a life insurance policy nor an
annuity but would have received instead one "investment contract."
Insurance policies should not be treated as inter vivos
transfers akin to testamentary dispositions. There is no
indication whatever that such was the intention of Congress in enacting § 302 (c) or § 302 (g). Helvering v.
Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, and Klein v. United States, 283
U. S. 231, are inapplicable.
Most forms of life insurance provide some sort of cash
value which is in itself an investment feature. It is
common knowledge that life insurance is frequently purchased for investment purposes.
The contract in question presen ts the essential requisites of life insurance. For a stipulated consideration
the company undertook to indemnify the beneficiary
against loss by a specified contingency, peril or risk.
That contingency was the death of the insured, this decedent. And the death of the decedent was the sole
contingency for the payment of the principal amount
of the policy. The fact that an annuity contract imposing entirely different obligations on the company was
issued at the same time does not make the life insurance
contract something other than life insurance.
The instant case is clearly distinguishable from the
"deposit arrangement" cases. Old (Colony Trust Co. V.
Commissioner, 102 F. 2d 380; State ex rel. Thornton v.
Probate Court, 186 Minn. 351.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

The history of the statute indicates no intention on
the part of Congress to restrict the exemption to proceeds
of certain types of insurance contracts.
The contracts in question were entered into by the
decedent neither in contemplation of death nor as a plan
to evade or even avoid the payment of taxes.
The Board of Tax Appeals found as a matter of fact
and held as a matter of law that the proceeds were received by the beneficiary "as insurance" within the meaning of the exempting statute. Such finding was supported
by substantial evidence and should not be disturbed on
review. Colorado National Bank v. Commissioner, 305
U. S. 23, 27; Helvering v. Rankin, 295 U. S. 123, 131.
The purchase of a single premium life insurance policy
is not a "transfer" within the meaning of any of the provisions of § 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926.
The plain language of the statute granting the exemption to life insurance proceeds should not be limited by
implication to insurance issued under certain conditions.
Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151, 153; United States v.
Merriam, 263 U. S. 179, 187-188; Burnet v. Niagara
Brewing 'Co., 282 U. S. 648, 654.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Less than a month before her death in 1936, decedent,
at the age of 80, executed two contracts with the Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. One was an annuity contract in standard form entitling decedent to
annual payments of $589.80 as long as she lived. The
consideration stated for this contract was $4,179. The
other contract was called a "Single Premium Life Policy-Non Participating" and provided for a payment of
$25,000 to decedent's daughter, respondent Le Gierse, at
decedent's death. The premium specified was $22,946.
Decedent paid the total consideration, $27,125, at the

HELVERING v. LE GIERSE.
531

Opinion of the Court.

time the contracts were executed. She was not required
to pass a physical examination or to answer the questions
a woman applicant normally must answer.
The "insurance" policy would, not have been issued
without the annuity contract, but in all formal respects
the two were treated as distinct transactions. -Neither
contract referred to the other. Independent applications
were filed for each. Neither premium was- computed
with reference to the other. Premium payments were
reported separately and entered in different accounts on
the company's books. Separate reserves were maintained for insurance and annuities. -Each contract was
in standard form. The "insurance" policy contained the
Usual provisions for surrender, assignment, optional
modes of settlement, etc.
Upon decedent's death, the face value of the "insurance" contract became payable to respondent Le Gierse,
the beneficiary. Thereafter, a federal estate tax return
was filed which excluded from decedent's gross estate the
proceeds of the "insurance" policy. The Commissioner
notified respondents Bankers Trust Co. and Le Gierse,
as executors of decedent's estate, that he proposed to
include the proceeds Of this policy in the gross estate and
to assess a deficiency. Suit in the Board of Tax Appeals
followed, and the Commissioner's action was reversed.
39 B. T. A. 1134. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
110 F. 2d 734. We brought the case here because of
conflict with Commissioner v. Keller's Estate, 113 F. 2d
833, and Helvering v. Tyler, 111 F. 2d 422. 311 U. S..
625.
The ultimate question is whether the "insurance" proceeds may be included in decedent's gross estate.
Section 302 of the Revenue Act of 1926 (44 Stat. 9,
70; as amended, 47 Stat. 169, 279; 48 Stat. 680, 752)
provides: "The value of the gross estate of the decedent
shall be determined by including the value at the time

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

of his death of all property, real or personal, tangible or
intangible . . .- (g) To the extent of the amount receivable by the executor as insurance under policies taken
out by the decedent upon his own life; and to theextent
of the excess over $40,000 of the amount receivable by
all other beneficiaries as insurance under policies taken
out by the decedent upon his own life." Thus the basic
question is whether the amounts received here are
amounts "receivable as insurance" within the meaning
of § 302 (g).
Conventional aids to construction are of little assistance here. Section 302 (g) first appeared in identical
language in the Revenue Act of 1918 as § 402 (f). 40
Stat. 1057, 1098. It has never been changed.' None of
the acts has ever defined "insurance." Treasury Regulations, interpreting the original provision, stated simply:
"The term 'insurance' refers to life insurance of every
description, including death benefits paid by fraternal
beneficial societies, operating under the lodge system."
Treasury Regulations No. 37, 1921 edition, p. 23. This
statement has never been amplified.2 The committee
report accompanying the Revenue Act of 1918 merely
noted that the provision taxing insurance receivable by
the executor clarified existing law, and that the provision
taxing insurance in excess of $40,000 receivable by specific beneficiaries was inserted to prevent tax evasion.
House Report No. 767, 65th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 22.? Sub-

'Act of 1921: 42 Stat. 227, 279; Act of 1924: 43 Stat. 253, 305;
Act of 1926: 44 Stat. 9, 71; Code of 1939: 53 Stat. 1, 122.
'Regulations No. 63, p. 26; RegulationsNo. 68,,p. 31; Regulations
No. 70, 1926 edition, p. 30; Regulations No. 70, 1929 edition, p. 33;
Regulations No. 80, p. 62.
[Insurance payable to specific beneficiaries does] not fall
within the existing provisions defining gross estate. It has been
brought to the attention of the committee that wealthy persons
have and now anticipate resorting to this method of defeating the

HELVERING v. LE GIERSE.
531

Opinion of the Court.

sequent committee reports do not mention § 302 (g).
Transcripts of committee hearings in 1918 and since are
equally uninformative.'
Necessarily, then, the language and the apparent purpose of § 302 (g) are virtually the only bases for determining what Congress intended to bring within the scope
of the phrase "receivable as insurance." -In fact, in using
the term "insurance" Congress has identified the characteristic that determines what transactions are entitled
to the partial exemption of § 302 (g).
We think the fair import of subsection (g) is that the
amounts must be received as the result of a transaction
which involved an actual "insurance risk" at the time
the transaction was executed. Historically and commonly insurance involves risk-shifting and risk-distributing. That life insurance is desirable from an economic
and social standpoint as a device to shift and distribute
risk of loss from premature death is unquestionable.
That these elements of risk-shifting and risk-distributing are essential to a life insurance contract is agreed by
courts and commentators. See for example: Ritter v.
Mutual Life Ins. Co., 169 U. S. 139; In re Walsh, 19 F.
Supp. 567; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 16
B. T. A. 314; Ackerman v. Commissioner, 15 B. T. A.
635; Couch, Cyclopedia of Insurance, Vol. I, § 61; Vance,
estate tax. Agents of insurance companies have openly urged persons of wealth to take out additional insurance payable to specific
beneficiaries for the reason that such insurance would not be included
in the gross estate. A liberal exemption of $40,000 has been included and it seems not unreasonable to require the inclusion of
-amounts in excess of this sum.. Id., p. 22.
The. same comment appears in Senate Report No. 617, 65th Cong.,
3d Sess., p. 42.
4 The curious consistency
and inadequacy of § 302 (g) have not
escaped'notice. See Paul, Life Insurance and The Federal Estate Tax,
52 Harv. L. Rev. 1037; Paul, Studies in Federal Taxation, 3d Series,
p. 351; United States Trust Co. v. Sears, 29 F. Supp. 643, 650.

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Insurance, §§ 1-3; Cooley, Briefs on Insurance, 2d edition, Vol. I, p. 114; Huebner, Life Insurance, Ch. 1.
Accordingly, it is logical to assume that when Congress
used the words "receivable as insurance" in § 302 (g),
it contemplated amounts received pursuant to a transaction possessing 'these features. Commissioner v. Keller's Estate, supra; Helvering v. Tyler, supra; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 102 F. 2d 380; Ackerman
v. Commissioner, supra.
Analysis of the apparent purpose of the partial exemption granted in § 302 (g) strengthens the assumption
that Congress used the word "insurance" in its commonly accepted sense. Implicit in this provision is acknowledgment of the fact that usually insurance payable
to specific beneficiaries is designed to shift to a group
of individuals the risk of premature death of the one
upon whom the beneficiaries are dependent for support.
Indeed, the pith of the exemption is particular protection of contracts and their proceeds intended to guard
against just such a risk. See Commissioner v. Keller's
Estate, supra; United States Trust Co. v. Sears, 29 F.
Supp. 643; Hughes, Federal Death Tax, p. 91; Comment, 38 Mich. L. Rev. 526, 528; compare Chase National Bank v. United States 28 F. Supp. 947; In re
Walsh, supra; Moskowitz v. Davis, 68 F. 2d 818. Hence,
the next question is whether the transaction in suit in
fact involved an "insurance risk" as outlined above.
We cannot find such an insurance risk in the contracts
between decedent and the insurance company.
The two contracts must be considered together. To
say they are distinct transactions is to ignore actuality,
for it is conceded on all sides and was found as a fact by
the Board of Tax Appeals that the "insurance" policy
would not have been issued without the annuity contract Failure, even studious failure, in one contract to
refer to the other cannot be controlling. Moreover,

HELVERING v. LE GIERSE.
531

Opinion of the Court.

authority for such consideration is not wanting, however unrealistic the distinction between form and substance may be. Commissioner v. Keller's Estate, supra;
Helvering v. Tyler, supra. See Williston, Contracts, Vol.
III, § 628; Paul, Studies in Federal Taxation, 2d series,
p. 218; compare Pearson v. McGraw, 308 U. S. 313.'
Considered together, the contracts wholly fail to spell
out any element of insurance risk. It is true that the
"insurance" contract looks like an insurance policy, contains all the usual provisions of one, and could have been
assigned or surrendered without the annuity. Certainly
the mere presence of the customary provisions does not
create risk, and the fact that the policy could have been
assigned is immaterial since, no matter who held the
policy and the annuity, the two contracts, relating to
the life of the one to whom they were originally issued,
still counteracted each other. It may well be true that
if enough people of decedent's age wanted such a policy
it would be issued without the annuity, or that if the
instant policy had been surrendered a risk would have
arisen. In either event the essential relation between
the two parties would be different from what it is here.
The fact remains that annuity and insurance are opposites; in this combination the one neutralizes the risk
customarily inherent in the other. From the company's
viewpoint, insurance looks to longevity, annuity to
transiency. See Commissioner v. Keller's Estate, supra;
Helvering v. Tyler, supra; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, supra; Carroll v. Equitable Life Assur. Soc.,
9 F. Supp. 223; Note, 49 Yale L. J. 946; Cohen, Annuities and Transfer Taxes, 7 Kan. B. A. J. 139.
'Legg v. St. John, 296 U. S. 489, is not to the contrary. There
nothing indicated that the one contract would not have been issued
without the other; there was no necessary connection between the
two.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Here the total consideration was prepaid and exceeded
the face value of the "insurance" policy. The excess
financed loading and other incidental charges. Any risk
that the prepayment would earn less than the amount
paid to respondent as an annuity was an investment risk
similar to the risk assumed by a bank; it was not an
insurance risk as explained above. It .follows that the
sums payable to a specific beneficiary here are not within
the scope of § 302 (g). The only remaining question is
whether they are taxable.
We hold that they are taxable under § 302 (c) of the
Revenue Act of 1926, as. amended, as a transfer to take
effect in possession or enjoyment at or after death. See
Helvering v. Tyler, supra; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, supra; Kernochan v. United States, 29 F.
Supp. 860; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Commissioner, supra;
compare, Gaither v. Miles, 268 F. 692; Comment, 38
Mich. L. Rev. 526; Comment, 32 Ill. L. Rev. 223.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS think
the judgment should be affirmed for the reasons stated
in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals.

