UNITED STATES v. PELZER.

.399

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. PELZER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 393.

Argued January 7, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. Decided in part upon authority of Helvering v. Hutchings, ante,
p. 393. P.,401.
2. The revenue laws are to be construed in the light of their general
purpose to establish a nationwide scheme of 'taxation uniform in
its application. Their provisions are not to be taken as subject
to state control or limitation unless the language or necessary
implication of the section involved makes its application dependent
on state law. P. 402.
3. Gifts in trust to grandchildren, limited to those who survive a
ten-year accumulation period and attain twenty-one years of age,
are gifts of "future interests," from which the $5,000 exemption in
computing gift taxes is withheld by § 504 (b) of the Revenue
Act of 1932. P. 403.
90 Ct. Cls. 614; 31 F. Supp. 770, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S.634, to review a judgment of the

Court of Claims granting a recovery of money collected
as gift taxes.
Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Assistant Attorney General Clark and Messrs. Sewall Key and Thomas
E. Harriswere on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Robert A. Littleton for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Decision in this case turns on the question whether
certain gifts of property in trust for the benefit of
several beneficiaries are gifts of "future interests" which,
in the computation of the gift tax, are, by § 504 (b)
of the 1932 Revenue Act, 47 Stat. 169, 247, denied the
benefit, otherwise allowed, of exclusion from the compu-

4O

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

tation to the extent of the first $5,000 of each gift "made
to any person by the donor" during the calendar year.
Sections 501 (a) and 502 (1) of the 1932 Act impose
for each calendar year a tax upon the net amount of
transfers "by any individual . . of property by gift."
For the purpose of computing the tax §.504 (b) provides "'In the-case of gifts (other than of future interests
in property) made to any person by the donor during
the. calendar year, the first $5,000 of such gifts...
shall not .. .be included in the total amount of gifts
made during such year."
In 1932 the taxpayer, respondent here, created a trust
for the benefit of his eight grandchildren and any other
grandchildren who might afterward be born during the
term of the trust. The trustee was directed to accumulate the income for a period of ten years and thereafter
to pay an "equal grandchild's distributive share" of
the income to each of the named grandchildren who were
then living and twenty-one years of age and to pay a
like share of income to each other named grandchild
for life after that child should reach the age of twentyone years.. Provision was made whereby grandchildren
born after the creation of the trust and during its life
were to receive like participation in the income of the
trust except as to distributions of income madeGprior
to the birth of such after-born grandchildren, and except that the after-born grandchildren should be paid
their shares of the income during their respective minorities after the termination of the ten-year accumulation
period. The trust instrument also made gifts over of
the share of the income of each grandchild at death, the
details of which are not now material. It was further
provided that the trust should terminate twenty-one
years after death of the last survivor of the named grandchildren, when the corpus of the trust, with accumulated
income, was to be distributed in equal shares among

UNITED STATES v. PELZER.
399

Opinion of the Court.

the surviving grandchildren and the issue per stirpes
of all deceased grandchildren.
During the years 1933, 1934, and 1935, the taxpayer
added further amounts of property to the 1932 trust.
In 1934 he also made gifts directly to his three granddaughters and created a trust to pay the income in equal
shares to his wife and three daughters with gifts over
of each share of the corpus of the trust upon the death
of the life tenant.
Upon claims for refunds of overpaid taxes upon the
transfers made in the years 1933, 1934, and 1935, the
commissioner recomputed the tax and allowed one $5,000
exclusion only from the net amounts subject to gift
tax given or added in each year to each trust. In the
present suit, brought in the Court of Claims, respondent
sought to recover overpaid taxes for the years in question on the grounds that the gifts to the beneficiaries
were gifts of present, not future, interests and that the
taxpayer in the computation of the tax for each year was
entitled to one exclusion of $5,000 for each beneficiary.
The court sustained both contentions and gave judgment
for respondent accordingly. 90 Ct. Cls. 614; 31 F. Supp.
770. We granted certiorari, 311 U. S. 634, to resolve the
conflict of the decision below with that of the Seventh
Circuit in United States v. Ryerson, 114 F. 2d 150.
The Government challenges both grounds of decision
below. It argues that only a single $5,000 exclusion is
allowable under § 504 (b) from the total gifts made to
the trust in each calendar year and that if the gifts
are deemed to be made to the named beneficiaries of
the trust no deduction can be allowed in the case of
gifts to the 1932 trust because they were of future interests for which no exclusion is allowed by § 504 (b).
We have this day decided the first question, in Helvering v. Hutchings, ante, p. 393, in which we held that
in the case of gifts in trust the beneficiaries are the
3o1335*-41-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 I. S.

persons to whom the gifts are made and that for purposes of computation of the tax § 504 (b),'excludes the
first $5,000 in value of the gift to each beneficiary from
the taxable amount of the gifts made in the calendar
year. For the reasons stated in our opinion in that case
we hold that the first beneficiaries of the. trusts in this
case .are the persons to whom the gifts were made and
that the taxpayer is entitled to the benefit of the $5,000
exclusion for each gift to such beneficiary if it is not
of a future interest.,
But the Government argues here, *as it did below, that
the gifts to the beneficiaries of the 1932 trust are of future interests Within the meaning of the statute and
treasury regulations. While the eight named grandchildren are the first beneficiaries of the trust, and the persons to whom the gifts were made, none of'them takes
any benefit from the trust before the end of the ten-year
accumulation period or until he is twenty-one, whichever
last occurs, and then only if he survives that event. And
the question is whether such a gift is a gift of a "future
interest" within the meaning of § 504 (b). Respondent,
relying on statutes and judicial decisions of Alabama,
where the trust was created and is being administered,
insists that the gifts to the named grandchildren are present, not future, interests as defined by Alabama law. He
argues that as § 504 (b) doesnot define the "future interests" gifts of which are excluded from its benefits,
they must be taken to be future interests as defined by
the local law, and it is the, local law definition of future
interests which must be adopted in applying the section.
But as we have often had occasion to point out, the revenue laws are to be construed in the light of their general
purpose to establish a nationwide scheme of taxation
"uniform,inits application. Hence their provisions are
not to be taken as subject to state control or limitation'
unless the language or necessary implication of the s'l&-

UNITED STATES v. PELZER.
399

403,
4

Opinion of the Court.

tion involved makes its application dependent on state.
law. Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 110; Morgan v.
Commissioner, 309 U. S. 78, 81.
We find no such implication in the exclusion of gifts
of "future interests" from the benefits given by § 504 (b).
In the absence of any statutory definition of the phrase
we look to the purpose of the statute to ascertain what
is intended. It plainly is not concerned with the varying
local definitions of property interests or with the local
refinements of conveyancing, and there is no reason for
supposing that the extent of the granted tax exemption
was intended to be given a corresponding variation. Its
purpose was rather the protection of the revenue and the
appropriate administration of the tax immunity provided
by the' statute. It is this purpose which marks the
boundaries of the statutory command. The committee
reports recommending the legislation declared (H. Rept.
No. 708, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 29; S.Rept. No. 665,
72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 41):
"The term 'future interests in property' refers to any
interest or estate, whether vested or contingent, limited
to commence in possession or enjoyment at a future date.
The exemption being available only in so far as the
donees are ascertainable, the denial of the exemption in
the case of gifts of future interests is dictated by the apprehended difficulty, in many instances, of determining
the number of eventual donees and the values of their
respective gifts."
Article XI of Treasury Regulations 79, 1933 and 1936
editions, interpreting § 504 (b), declared that "future
interests" include any interest or estate "whether
vested or. contingent, limited to commence in use,
possession, or enjoyment at some future -date or
time." This definition stands unchanged in the regulations and, while § 504 (b) was amended by § 505 of the
1938 Revenue Act so as to withdraw the benefit of the

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

$5,000 exclusion from all gifts in trust, the section as
amended continues to withhold the benefit of the exclusion from all gifts of "future interests in property."
We think that the regulations, so far as they are applicable to the present gifts, are within the competence
of the Treasury in interpreting § 504 (b) and effect its
purpose as declared by the reports of the Congressional
committees, and that the gifts to the eight beneficiaries
of the 1932 trust were gifts of future interests which are
excluded from the benefits of that section. Here the
beneficiaries had no right to the present enjoyment of
the corpus or of the income and unless they survive the
ten-year period they will never receive any part of either.
The "use, possession, or enjoyment" of each donee is thus
postponed to the happening of a future uncertain event.
The gift thus involved the difficulties of determining the
"number of eventual donees and the value of their respective gifts" which it was the purpose of the statute to
avoid.
We have no occasion to consider the definition of future interests in other aspects than those presented by
the present case. The judgment of the Court of Claims
will be reversed so far only as it excluded the gifts to the
1932 trust from the computation of the tax for each of
the years in question.
Reversed.

