FASHION GUILD v. TRADE COMM'N.

457

Syllabus.

FASHION ORIGINATORS' GUILD OF AMERICA,
INC., ET A. v. FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI

No. 537.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Argued February 10, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

A combination of manufacturers of women's garments and manufacturers of textiles ised in their making, who claimed that the
designs of their products, though not protected by patent or
copyright, were original and distinctive, sought to suppress competition by others who copied their designs and sold at generally
lower prices. To this end, those in the combination systematically
registered their designs and refused all sales to manufacturers and
retailers of garments who dealt in the copies or would not agree
not to sell them. To aid in effectuating the boycott, the combination employed "shoppers" to visit retailers' stores, established
tribunals to determine whether garments were copies of designs
registered, audited the books of its members, fined them for violations of its regulations, etc. In view of these things, and the
power of the combination and its effect upon sales in interstate
commerce, the Federal Trade Commission concluded that the
practices of the combination constituted unfair methods of competition tending to monopoly and issued a "cease and desist"
order. Held:
1. That the conclusion of the Commission was based on adequate
and unchallenged findings and, was correct. P. 463.
2. Where the purpose and practice of a combination run counter
to the public policy declared in the Sherman and Clayton Acts,
the Federal Trade Commission has the power to suppress it as
an unfair method of competition. P. 463.
3. A practice short of a complete monopoly but which tends
to create a monopoly and to deprive the public of the advantages
from free competition in interstate trade, offends the policy of
the Sherman Act. P. 466.
. 4. A combination may be contrary to the policy of the Sherman
and Clayton Acts though it does not tend to fix or regulate prices,
parcel out or limit production, or bring about a deterioration in
quality. P. 466.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioners.

312 U. S.

It was the object -of the Federal Trade Commission Act to
reach in their incipiency combinations which could lead to these
and other trade restraints and practices deemed undesirable.
5. Since the purpose and object of this combination, its potential
power, its tendency to monopoly, the coercion it could and did
practice upon a rival method of competition, all brought it within
the prohibition declared by the Sherman and Clayton Acts, it
was not erroneous to exclude evidence offered to prove that the
practices were reasonable and nedessary for the protection of
manufacturer, laborer, retailer and consumer against the evils
growing from the pirating of original designs. P. 467.
6. Whether or not systematic copying of the dress designs by
trade competitors is in itself tortious is a question of state law;
but even if tortious under the laws of all the States, that circumstance would not justify a combination to suppress it by regulating
and restraining interstate commerce in violation of federal law.
P. 468.
114 F. 2d 80, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 641, to review the affirmance by

the court below of a "cease and desist" order of the Federal Trade Commission.
Mr. Charles B. Rugg, with whom Messrs. Milton C.
Weisman, Archibald Cox, and Melvin A. Albert were on

the brief, for petitioners.
The petitioners' program does not violate § 5 because
its sole consequence is to curb the unlawful competition
of the style pirate. "Style piracy" is unfair competition
in which the copyist has no right to engage. International News Service Co. v. Associated Press, 248 U. S.
215; Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 532;
Callman, Style & Design Piracy, 22 Journal of Patent
Office, 578, 586; 47 Harv. L. Rev. 1419, 1426-1427; Note
(1930), 14 Minn. L. Rev. 537. Cf. Rogers, Unfair Competition, 17 Mich. L. Rev. 490; Handler, Unfair Competition, 21 Iowa L. Rev. 175, 191.
"Unfair competition" is essentially a branch of the law
of torts. A man's interest in his. business is a subject of

FASHION GUILD v. TRADE COMM'N.
457

459

Argument for Petitioners.

protection against unlawful invasion by others. Indeed,
equity calls it a property right and will enjoin unlawful
interferences. Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312, 327,;
Piercev. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510; Mosler Safe Co.
v. Ely Norris Safe Co., 273 U. S. 132; The Case of the
Schoolmasters, Y. B. 11 Hen. 4, f. 47, pl. 21. The injured
trader has a remedy whenever he shows that the other
invaded his interest in his business by lessening his prospect of customers by an act which society condemns.
Clear and immediate injury to the design originator's
business flows from the conduct of the copyist. The
conduct of the copyist is "wrongful," that is to say, it
is condemned by both the courts and society. Montegut
v. Hickson, 178 App. Div. 94; Margolis v.. National Bellas
Hess Co., 139 Misc. 738. He systematically, mechanically and continuously appropriates the fruits of the
creator's skill, labor and expense. He is not like the
wide-awake competitor who espies and fills a particular
demand that another may first have noticed.
The Federal Trade Commission itself has specifically
condemned the piracy of patterns, styles and designs.
In many industries it has accepted rules proposed in
trade practice conferences which unequivocally condemned the practice of copying competitors' creations.
The sole consequence of the FOGA program is t9 limit
the unlawful activities of the style pirates and of the
retailers Who join them.
A method of competition which has no effect except
to limit the unfair competition of others is not a violation of § 5. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Butterick Pub.
Co., 85 F. 2d 522.
Section 5 of the Act can not be supposed to have barred
all self-help to a trader.
The Act does not protect from interference trade which
has no right to exist. The Act is intended also to pro-

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of'the Court.

312 U.S.

tect the public. See Federal Trade Comm'n v. Royal
Milling Co., 288 U. S. 212; Federal Trade Comm'n v.
R. F. Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304. Congress did not
intend to vest the Federal Trade Commission with, jurisdiction to prevent methods of competition which have
no consequences except to limit those activities of others
which are unfair and which equity would forbid.
The Federal Trade Commission erred in refusing to
hear evidence of the economic justification for the FOGA
program. The proffered evidence was relevant and material to a determination of whether the petitioners were
violating the Sherman Act., It was relevant and material
to a determination of whether the petitioners' conduct
was tortious at common law.
Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Assistant Attorney Genetal Arnold and Messrs. James C. Wilson-and
Wilber Stammler were on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals,. with modifications not
here challenged, affirmed a Federal Trade Commission
decree. ordering petitioners to cease. and desist from certain practices found to have been done in combination
and to constitute "unfair methods of competition" tending to mohopoly.1 Determination of the correctness of
the decision below requires consideration of the Sherman, Clayton, and Federal Trade Commission Acts.
..114 F. 2d 80. Because of inconsistency between the holding below and that of the First Circuit Court of Appeals in Win. Filene's
Sons Co. v. Fa8hion Originators' Guild of America, 90 F. 2d 556, we
-granted certiorari. 311 U. S. 641.
226 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. § 1 et seq.; 38 Stat. 730, 15 U. S. C.
§ 12 et seq.; 38 Stat. 717, 15 U. S. C. § 41 et seq.

FASHION GUILD v. TRADE COMM'N.
457

461

Opinion of the Court.

Some of the members 'of the combination design, manufacture, sell and distribute women's. garments-chiefly
dresses. Others are manufacturers, converters or dyers
of textiles from which these garments are made. Fashion Originators' Guild of America (FOGA), an organization controlled by these groups, is the instrument
through which petitioners work to accomplish the purposes condemned by the Commission. The garment
manufacturers claim to be creators of original and distinctive designs of fashionable clothes for women, and
the textile manufacturers claim to be creators of similar
original fabric designs. After these designs enter the
channels of trade, other manufacturers systematically
make and sell copies of them, the copies usually selling
at prices lower than the garments copied. Petitioners
call this practice of copying unethical and immoral, and
give it the name of "style piracy." And although they
admit that their "original creations" are neither copyrighted nor patented, and indeed assert that existing
legislation affords them no protection against copyists,
they nevertheless urge that sale of copied designs constitutes an unfair trade practice and a tortious invasion
of their rights. Because of these alleged wrongs, petitioners, while continuing to compete with one another in
many respects, combined among themselves to combat
and, if possible, destroy all competition from the sale of
garments which are copies of their "original creations."
They admit that to destroy such competition they have
in combination purposely boycotted and declined to sell
their products to retailers who follow a policy of selling
garments copied by other manufacturers from designs
put out by Guild members. As a result of their efforts,
approximately 12,000 retailers throughout the country
have signed agreements to "coperate" with the Guild's
boycott program, but more than half of these signed the

.462

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

agreements only because constrained by threats that
Guild members would not sell to retailers who failed to
yield to their demands-threats that have been carried
out by the Guild practice of placing on,red cards the
names of non-co~perators (to whom no sales are to be
made), placing on white cards the names of co~perators
(to whom sales are to be. made), and then distributing
both sets of cards to the manufacturers.
The one hundred and seventy-six manufacturers of
women's garments who are members of the Guild occupy
a commanding position in their line of business. In 1936,
they sold in the United States more than 38% of all
women's garments wholesaling at $6.75 and up, and more
than 60% of those at $10.75 and above. The power of
the combination is great; competition and the demand
of the consuming public make it necessary for most retail
dealers to stock some of the products of these manufacturers. And the power of the combination -is made even
greater by reason of the affiliation of some members of
the National Federation of Tdxtiles, Inc.-that being an
organization composed-of about one hundred textile manufacturers, converters, dyers, and printers of silk and
rayon used in making women's garments. Those members of the Federation who are affiliated with'the Guild
have agreed to sell their products only to those garment
manufacturers who have in turn agreed to sell only to
co6perating retailers.
The Guild' maintains a Design Registration Bureau for
garments, and the Textile Federation maintains a similar
Bureau for textiles. The Guild employs "shoppers" to
visit the stores of both co6perating and non-co6perating
retailers, "for the purpose of examining their stocks, to
determine and report as to whether they contain . . .
copies of registered designs . ." An elaborate system
of trial and appellate tribunals exists, for the determination of whether a given garment is in fact a copy of

FASHION GUILD v. TRADE COMM'N.
457

463

Opinion of the Court.

a Guild member's design. In order to assfire the success
of its plan of registration and restraint, and to ascertain
whether Guild regulations are being violated, the Guild
audits its members' books. And if violations of Guild
requirements are discovered, as, for example, sales to
red-carded retailers, the violators are subject to heavy
fines. a3
In addition to the elements of the agreement set out
above, all of which relate more or less closely to competition by so-called style copyists, the Guild has undertaken
to do many things apparently independent of and distinct from the fight against copying. Among them are
the following: the combination prohibits its members
from participating in retail advertising; regulates the discount they may allow; prohibits their selling at retail;
codperates with local guilds in regulating days upon
which special sales shall be held; prohibits its members
from selling -women's garments to persons who conduct
businesses in residences, residential quarters, hotels or
apartment houses; and denies the benefits of membership
to retailers who participate with dress manufacturers in
promoting fashion shows unless the merchandise used is
actually purchased and delivered.
If the purpose and practice of the combination of garment manufacturers and their affiliates runs counter to
the public policy declared in the Sherman and Clayton
Acts, the Federal Trade Commission has the power to
suppress it as an unfair method of competition.4 From
'In one instance a fine of $1500 was imposed, and the Guild
notified its membership that a fine of $5000 would be assessed in
case of future violation.
'Federal Trade Comm'n. v. Beech-Nut Packing Co., 257 U. S. 441,
453-455. See 26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. § 1- et seq.; 38 Stat.. 730,
15 U. S. C. § 12 et seq.; 38 Stat. 717, 15 U. S. C. § 41 et seq.. By
38 Stat. 734, 15 U. S. C. § 21, the Federal Trade Commission is
expressly given authority to enforce the Clayton Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 V. S.

its findings the Commission concluded that the petitioners, "pursuant to understandings, arrangements, agreements, combinations and conspiracies entered into jointly
and severally" had prevented sales in interstate commerce, had "substantially lessened, 'hindered and suppressed" competition, and had tended "to create in themselves a monopoly." And paragraph 3 of the Clayton
Act (15 U. S. C. § 14) declares "It shall be unlawful for
any person engaged in commerce,... to... make a sale
or contract for sale of goods, . . . on the condition,
agreement, or understanding that the .... purchaser
thereof shall not use or deal in the goods, . . . of a competitor or competitors of the . . . seller, where the effect
of such . . ' sale, or contract for sale . . .may be to
substantially lessen competition or tend to create a mo,nopoly in any line of commerce." The relevance of this
section of the Clayton Act to petitioners' scheme is shown
by the fact that the scheme is bottomed upon a system
of sale under which (1) textiles shall be sold to garment
manufacturers only upon the condition and understanding that the buyers will not use or deal in textiles which
are copied from the designs of textile manufacturing
Guild members; (2) garment manufacturers shall sell to
retailers only upon the condition and understanding that
the retailers shall not use or deal in such copied designs.
And the Federal Trade Commission concluded in the language of the Clayton Act that these understandings substantially lessened competition and tended to create a
monopoly. We hold that the Commission, upon adequate and unchallenged findings, correctly concluded that
this practice constituted an unfair method of competition.'
'Cf. Federal Trade Comm'n v. R. F. Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S.
304, 314; Standard Fashion Co. v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S.
346, 357.

FASHION GUILD v. TRADE COMM'N.
457

465

Opinion of the Court.

Not only does the plan in the respects above discussed
thus conflict with the principles of the Clayton Act; the
findings of the Commission bring petitioners' combination in its entirety well within the inhibition of the policies declared by the Sherman Act itself. Section 1 of
that Ait makes illegal every contract, combination or
conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce among the
several states; § 2 makes illegal every combination or
conspiracy which monopolizes or attempts to monopolize
any part of that trade or commerce. Under the Sherman Act "competition not combination, should be the
law of trade."

National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197

U. S. 115, 129. And among the many respects in which
the Guild's plan runs contrary to the policy of the Sherman Act are these: it narrows the outlets to which garment and textile manufacturers can sell and the sources
from which retailers can buy (Montague & Co. v. Lowry,
193 U. S. 38, 45; Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United

States, 226 U. S. 20, 48-49); subjects all retailers and
manufacturers who decline to comply with the Guild's
program to an organized boycott (Eastern States Retail
Lumber Dealers' Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S. 600,

609-611); takes away the freedom of action of members
by requiring each to reveal to the Guild the intimate
details of their individual affairs (United States v. American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371, 389); and has both
as its necessary tendency and as its purpose and effect
the direct suppression of competition from the sale of.
unregistered textiles and copied designs (United States
v. American Linseed Oil Co., supra, at 389).- In addi-

tion to all this, the combination is in reality an extragovernmental agency, which prescribes rules for the
regulation and restraint of interstate commerce, and provides extra-judicial tribunals for determination and punishment of violations, and thus "trenches upon the power
of the national legislature and violates the statute."
301335°-41-30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.
211, 242.
Nor is it determinative in considering the policy of
the Sherman Act that petitioners may not yet have
achieved a complete Monopoly. For "it is sufficient if it
really tends to that end and to deprive the public of the
advantages which flow from free competition." United
States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1, 16; Addyston
Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, 237. It
was, in fact, one of the hopes of those who sponsored
the Federal Trade Commission Act that its effect might
be prophylactic and that through it attempts to bring
about complete. monopolization of an industry might be
,stopped in their incipiency."
Petitioners, however, argue that the combination cannot be contrary to the policy of the Sherman and Clayton Acts, since the Federal Trade Commission did not
find that the combination fixed or regulated prices, par-'
celled out or limited production, or brought about a deterioration. in quality.' But action falling into these
three categories does not exhaust the types of conduct
banned by the Sherman and Clayton Acts. And as
previously pointed out, it was the object of the Federal
'Trade Commission Act to reach not merely in their
fruition but also in their incipiency combinations which
could lead to these and other trade restraints and practices deemed undesirable. In this case, the Commission
found that the combination exercised sufficient control
and power in the women's garments and textile businesses "to exclude from the industry those manufacturers and distributors who do not conform to the rules
and regulations of said respondents, 'and thus tend to
.'Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643, 647.
And see remarks of Senator Cummins, Chairman of the Committee
which reported the bill, 51 Cong. Rec. 11455, quoted by Brandeis,
J., in Federal Trade Comm'n v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, 435.

FASHION GUILD v. TRADE COMM'N.
457

-467

Opinion of the Court.

create in themselves a monopoly in the-said industries."
While a conspiracy to fix prices is'illegal, an intent to
increase prices is not an ever-present essential of conduct
amounting to a violation of the policy of the Sherman
and Clayton Acts; a monopoly contrary to their policies
can exist eyen though a combination may temporarily
or even permanently reduce the price of the articles
manufactured or sold. For as this Court has said,
"Trade or commerce under those circumstances may
nevertheless be badly and unfortunately restrained by
driving out of business the small dealers and worthy men
whose lives have been spent therein, and who might be
unable to readjust themselves to their altered surroundings. Mere reduction in the price of the commodity
dealt in might be dearly paid for by the ruin of such a
class, and the absorption of control over one commodity
by an all-powerful combination of capital."'
But. petitioners further argue that their boycott and
restraint of interstate trade is not within the ban of the
policies of the Sherman and Clayton Acts because "the
practices of FOGA were reasonable and necessary to protect the manufacturer, laborer, retailer and consumer
against the devastating evils growing from the pirating
of original designs and had in fact benefited all four."
The Commission declined to hear much of the evidence
that petitioners desired to offer on this subject. As we
have pointed out, however, the aim of petitioners' combination was the intentional destruction of one type of
manufacture and sale which Competed with Guild members. The purpose and object of this combination, its
potential power, its tendency to monopoly, the coercion
it could and did practice upon a rival raethod of competition, all brought it within the policy of the prohibition
'United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290,
323.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

declared by the Sherman and Clayton Acts. For this
reason, the principles announced in Appalachian Coals,
Inc. v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, and Sugar Institute
v. United States, 297 U. S. 553, have no application here.
Under these circumstances it was not error to refuse to
hear the evidence offered, for the reasonableness of the
methods pursued by, the combination to accomplish its
unlawful object is no more material than would be the
reasonableness of the prices fixed by unlawful combination. Cf. Thomsen v. Cayser, 243 U. S. 66, 85; United
States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, 398;
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150,
212-224. Nor can the unlawful combination be justified
upon the argument that systematic copying of dress designs is itself tortious, or should now be declared so by
us. In the first place, whether or not given conduct is
tortious is a question of state law, under our decision in
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64. In the second
place, even if copying were an acknowledged tort under
the law of every state, that situation would not justify
petitioners in combining together to regulate and restrain
interstate commerce in violation of federal law. And for
these same reasons, the principles declared in International News Service v. Associated Press, 248 U. S. 215,
cannot serve to legalize petitioners' unlawful combination. The decision below is accordingly
Affirmed.

