OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Parties.

312 U. S.

value as reported by petitioner. The Board of Tax Appeals held that the value of the gifts was their cashsurrender value. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
115 F. 2d 209. That judgment must be affirmed on the
authority of Guggenheim v. Rasquin, supra, unless as
claimed by petitioner the court below was precluded from
substituting its judgment of value for that of the Board.
Helvering v. Rankin, 295 U. S.123, 131. But the question of what criterion should be employed for determining the "value" of the gifts is a question of law.' See
Lucas v. Alexander, 279 U. S. 573. Accordingly, the Circuit Court of Appeals was justified in reversing the decision of the Board as "not in accordance with law." Int.
Rev. Code 1939, ยง 1141 (c) (1); 53 Stat. 164.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. RYERSON ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 494.

Argued January 7, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.

The lapse of time between the issuance of single-premium policies
of life insurance and their assignment as gifts, held not to justify
the substitution of cash surrender value, instead of replacement
cost at the date of the gift, as the criterion of value for the
purposes of the gift tax under the Revenue Act of 1932.
P. 261.
114 F. 2d 150, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S.640, to review the reversal of

a judgment, 28 F. Supp. 265, for the taxpayer in a suit
to recover alleged overpayments of gift taxes.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Edward First were on the brief, for the
United States.

UNITED STATES v. RYERSON.
260

.261

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William N. Haddad, with whom Mr. Walter T.
Fisher was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of. the

Court.
The question here is the same as that in Guggenheim v.
Rasquin, ante, p. 254. Consequently the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals holding that cash-surrender
value on the dates of the gifts was the proper method of
valuing single-premium life insurance policies for gift-tax
purposes '(114 F. 2d 150) must be reversed, unless the
elapse of time between the issuance of the policies and
the making of the gifts calls for a different result. The
single-premium policies here involved were taken out by
the insured in 1928 and 1929. They were assigned as
gifts in December, 1934, when the insured Was 79. years
old. The cost of the policies was less than their cashsurrender value at the dates of the gifts. But the cost
'of replacing' the policies at the then age of the insured
would have been in excess of their cash-surrender value.
We think that such cost of replacement, as held by the
District Court, is the best available criterion of the value
of the policies for the purposes of the gift. tax. The
elapse of time between issuance and' assignment of the
,policies does not justify the substitution of cash-surrender value for replacement cost as the criterion of value.
We cannot assume with respondents that at the dates of
the gifts the policies presumably had no insurancei as
distinguished from investment, value to the donor. Here,
as in the case where the issuance of the policies and their
assignment as gifts are simultaneous, cash-sUrrender
value reflects only a part- of the value of the contracts.
The cost of duplicating the policies at the dates of the
gifts is, in absence of more' cogent evidence, the onG
criterion which reflects both their insurance and investment value to the owner at that time. Cf. Vance on

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

Insurance (2d ed.) pp. 332-333; Speer v. Phoenix Mutual
Life Ins. Co., 36 Hun 322. The fact that the then condition of an insured's health might make him uninsurable
emphasizes the conclusion that the use of that criterion
will result in placing a minimum value upon such a gift.
Reversed.
WOODS, COURT TRUSTEE, v. CITY NATIONAL
BANK AND TRUST CO. -OF CHICAGO ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE cIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. -281 and 282.

Argued January 13, 1941.-Decided
February 3, 1941.

1. Under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, the bankruptcy court
has plenary power to review all fees and expenses in connection with the reorganization from whatever source they may be
payable. Reasonable compensation for services rendered may be
allowed. The claimant has the burden of proving their worth.
P. 267.
2. "Reasonable compensation for services rendered" necessarily implies loyal and disinterested service in the interest of those for
whom the claimant purported to act. P. 268.
3. No compensation should be allowed for services rendered in
connection with a reorganization by a claimant who represented
not only members of the investing public but also other and conflicting interests; and this although no fraud or unfairness is
shown to have resulted from the conflict. P. 268.
4. In corporate reorganizations, protective committees,, as well as
indenture trustees, are fiduciaries. P. 268.
5. Expenditures incurred in connection with the administration of
the estate are not "proper," within the meaning of ยง 242 of the
Act, and should hot be allowed, where the claimant can not
show that they were made in furtherance of a project exclusively
devoted to the interests of those whom the claimant purported
to represent. On the other hand, those expenditures normally
should be allowed which have clearly benefited the estate.
P. 269.
111 F. 2d 834, reversed.

