OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

CONSOLIDATED ROCK PRODUCTS CO.

312 U.S.

ET AL. V.

DU BOIS.*
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT
NINTH

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

No. 400. Argued February 13, 14, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.
In a proceeding to reorganize a parent corporation and its two whollyowned subsidiaries, a plan was approved which provided inter alia:
That all assets of the companies be transferred free and clear to a
new corporation; that in exchange for the outstanding bonds of
the subsidiaries, which were secured on their respective properties
by separate mortgages, the' bondholders receive, for 50% of the
principal amounts of their claims, income bonds- of inferior grade
secured on the property of the new company, and for the balance
receive an equal amount of its par-value preferred stock, with warrants to purchase its common stock on certain terms, but that their
claims to accrued interest be extinguished; that the preferred stockholders of the parent corporation receive common stock of the new
corporation, and that its common stockholders receive warrants to
purchase the new common on terms stated. Although the mortgage
debts of the subsidiaries differed in amount, the net income of the
new company was to be applied one-half to the one and one-half
to the other group of bondholders for servicing their new securities.
Each of the two subsidiaries had a money claim against the parent
company, under an agreement whereby the latter had taken over
the entire management and financing of the business and properties
of the subsidiaries, and which stipulated, inter alia, that that company would make certain payments and allow certain credits to the
subsidiaries, and, upon termination of the agreement, would return
their properties and render final accountings. The agreement declared that it was made for the benefit of the parties and not "for
the benefit of any third person," and contained a provision for
extension of its date of expiration at the option of the parent company. The District Court did not find specific values for the separate properties or the properties of the enterprise as a unit; yet,
*Together with No. 444, Badgley et al. v. Du Bois, also on writ of
certiorari, 311 U. S. 636, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS. 511
510

Syllabus.

in face of a poor earnings record, it found that the present fair value
of all the assets, exclusive of good will and going concern value, was
in excess of the total bonded indebtedness, plus accrued and unpaid
interest. It further found that, including good will and going concern value, the value was insufficient to pay the bonded indebtedness plus accrued and unpaid interest and certain liquidation preferences and accrued dividends on the parent company's preferred
stock; that the present value of the assets subject to the trust indentures of the subsidiaries was insufficient to pay the face amount,
plus accrued and unpaid interest, of the respective bond issues; that,
as a result of commingling under the operating agreement, it would
be physically impossible to segregate with any degree of accuracy
or fairness properties which originally belonged to the companies
separately, and that an appraisal would produce further confusion.
No finding was made of the amount or validity of the intercompany
claims, the court concluding that any liability under the operating
agreeffment was not for the benefit of third parties, including the
bondholders. Held:
1. To warrant approval of any plan of reorganization, there
should have been a determination of what assets were subject to
payment of the respective claims. P. 520.
2. The mortgaged assets being, as found by the District Court,
insufficient to pay the mortgage indebtedness, the bondholders,
under the full and absolute priority rule, would have, as against
the parent corporation and its stockholders, prior recourse against
any unmortgaged assets of the subsidiaries, including the money
claims of the subsidiaries against the parent company. P. 520.
3. Assuming that, because of the extension provision, the operating contract is still executory, the trustees of the subsidiaries are
entitled, under § 77B (b) of the Bankruptcy Act, to prove their
claims at present worth. P. 521.
4. Equity will not permit a holding company, which has dominated and controlled its subsidiaries, to escape or reduce its liability
to them by reliance upon self-serving contracts which it has imposed
on them. P. 522.
5. A holding company in dominating and controlling position has
fiduciary duties to security holders of its system which will be
strictly enforced. P. 522.
6. A holding company owing money to its subsidiaries under an
agreement between them can not defeat or postpone an accounting
in the interest of their bondholders by resort to a declaration in

.512

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

the agreement that it was made for the benefit of the parties to it,
not "for the benefit of any third person." P. 522.
7. The bankruptcy court, having exclusive jurisdiction over the
holding company and the subsidiaries, has plenary power to adjudicate all the issues pertaining to such intercompany claim. P. 523.
8. In view of the unified operation of all the properties by the
parent company, the commingling of assets, and the treatment of
the subsidiaries as mere departments of its business, that company
is in no position to assert that its assets are insulated from the
claims of the subsidiaries' bondholders. P. 523.
9. The value of the assets of the holding company must be determined, to furnish criteria for appropriate allocation of the new
securities between bondholders and stockholders in case any equity
remains after bondholders have been made whole. P. 524.
10. To determine the fairness of the plan as between the bondholders of the subsidiaries there must be at least an approximate
ascertainment of the value of their respective assets, notwithstanding the difficulties occasioned by the lack of earnings records and
by .the commingling of properties. P. 524.
11. Future earning capacity of the enterprise is the appropriate
criterion for the determination of solvency in connection with reorganization plans involving productive properties; valuations for
other purposes are not relevant to that issue, except as they may
indirectly bear on earning capacity. P. 525.
Unless meticulous regard for earning capacity be had, indefensible participation of junior securities in plans of reorganization
may result. Findings as to earning capacity are essential for determination of the feasibility and fairness of a plan of reorganization.
12. Estimate of earning capacity must be based on an informed
judgment which embraces all facts relevant to future earning capacity and hencdto present worth, including the nature and condition
of the properties, the past earning record, and all circumstances
which indicate whether or not that record is a reliable criterion of
future performance. P. 526.
A sum of values based on physical factors and assigned to separate
units of the property without regard to the earning capacity of the
whole enterprise is plainly inadequate.
13. Whether there should be a formal appraisal of properties in
tlhis case is left to the discretion of the District Court. P. 527.
114. The absolute priority principle applies to reorganizations of
P. 527.
solvent, as well as insolvent, corporations. P.27

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

513

Counsel for Parties.

15. Under this principle, interest accrued on the bonds is entitled
to the same priority as the principal. P. 527.
16. The absolute priority principle does not mean that creditors
can not be given inferior grades of securities or even securities of
the same kind as are received by junior interests; but, even where
the enterprise as a whole is solvent in the bankruptcy sense, the
principle is violated, in cases where stockholders are participating
in the plan, if creditors are given securities inferior in grade to those
they give up and of the same face amounts, with no additional
compensation for the senior rights surrendered. P. 528.
17. Whether in case of a solvent company the creditors should
be made whole for the change in or loss of their seniority by an
increased participation in assets, in earnings, or in control, or in any
combination thereof, will be dependent on the facts and requirements
of each case. So long as the new securities offered are of a value
equal to the creditors' claims, the appropriateness of the formula
employed rests in the informed discretion of the court. P. 529.
18. The fact that a plan of reorganization substitutes for several
old bond issues, separately secured, new securities constituting an
interest in all of the properties does not make it unfair and inequitable per se. If the creditors are adequately compensated for the
loss of their prior claims, it is not material out of what assets they
are paid. P. 530.
114 F. 2d 102, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 636, to review the reversal of a
judgment confirming a plan of reorganization under § 77B
of the Bankruptcy Act.
Mr. Paul R. Watkins, with whom Mr. Dana Latham
was on the brief, for petitioners in No. 400; and Mr. Graham L. Sterling, Jr., with whom Messrs. Homer I.
Mitchell and John C. Macfarland were on the brief, for
petitioners in No. 444.
Mr. Kenneth E. Grant for respondent.
By special leave of Court, Solicitor General Biddle,
with whom Messrs. Richard H. Demuth, Chester T. Lane,
Martin Riger, George Rosier, and Homer Kripke were on

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

the brief, for the Securities and Exchange Commission,
as amicus curiae.

MR. JUsTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves questions as to the fairness under
§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act (48 Stat. 912) of a plan
of reorganization for a parent corporation (Consolidated
Rock Products Co.) and its two wholly owned subsidiaries ---Union Rock Co. and Consumers Rock andGravel Co., Inc. The District Court confirmed the plan;
the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 114 F. 2d 102.
We granted the petitions ' for certiorari because of the
importance in the administration of the reorganization
provisions of the Act of certain principles enunciated by
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The stock of Union and Consumers is held by Consolidated. Union has outstanding in the hands of the
public' $1,877,000 of 6% bonds secured by an indenture
4
on its property, with accrued and unpaid interest
The proceedings under § 77B were instituted in 1935 by the
filing of separate voluntary petitions by Consolidated, Union and
Consumers. No trustees have been appointed, Consolidated remaining in possession.
2 The petition in No. 400 raises all of the
questions discussed
herein, while the petition in No. 444 raises only the question as to
the authority of the reorganization court to approve a plan which
substitutes one mortgage covering all of the property for so-called
divisional mortgages on separate units of that property. The Interstate Commerce Commission and the Securities and Exchange
Commission filed memoranda urging that the petition in No. 444
be granted and that the petition in No. 400 be granted to the
extent that it raised the same question as that presented by the
petition in No. 444.
'$102,500 face amount of Union's bonds are held by Consolidated.
'As of April 1, 1937, the effective date of the plan. Interest on
Union bonds has been in default since March 1, 1934.

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

515

Opinion of the Court.

thereon of $403,555--a total mortgage indebtedness of
$2,280,555. Consumers has outstanding in the hands of
the public ' $1,137,000 of 6% bonds secured by an indenture on its property, with accrued and unpaid interest' thereon of $221,715--a total mortgge indebtedness
of $1,358,715. Consolidated has outstanding 285,947
shares of no par value preferred stock I and 397,455
shares of no par common stock.
The plan of reorganization calls for the formation of
a new corporation to which will be transferred all of the
assets of Consolidated, Union,8 and Consumers free of all
claims.' The securities of the new corporation are to
be distributed as follows:
Union and Consumers bonds held by the public will
be exchanged for income bonds 1 and preferred stock"
$63,500 face amount of Consumers' bonds are held by Consolidated.
'Interest has been in default since July 1, 1934.
'With a preference on liquidation of $25 per share plus accrued
dividends.
'Reliance Rock Co. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Union whose
properties also were to be transferred to the new company..
'The claims of general creditors will be paid in full or assumed
by the new company.
"'These bonds will mature in 20 years and will bear interest at the
rate of 5 per cent if earned. The interest will be cumulative if not
paid. The bonds, as well as the preferred stock, to be issued to
Union and Consumers bondholders will be in separate series. The
net income of the new company is to be divided into two equal
parts: each part to be used to pay, with respect to bonds and
preferred stock of each series, first, interest and sinking fund payments on the bonds; second, dividends and sinking fund payments
on the preferred stock. Income remaining will be available for
general corporate purposes.
"The new preferred stock will have a par value of $50 and will
carry a dividend of 5 per cent. It will be noncumulative until the
retirement of the bonds of the same series except to the extent that
net income is available for dividends. Thereafter it will be
cumulative.

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

of the new company. For 50 per cent of the principal
amounts of their claims, those bondholders will receive
income bonds secured by a mortgage on all of the property of the new company; for the balance they will receive an equal amount of par' value preferred stock.
Their claims to accrued interest are to be extinguished,
no new securities being issued therefor. Thus Union
bondholders for their claims of $2,280,555 will receive income bonds and preferred stock in the face amount of
$1,877,000; Consumers bondholders for their claims of
$1,358,715 will receive income bonds and preferred
stock " in the face amount of $1,137,000. Each share of
new preferred stock will have a warrant for the purchase of two shares of new $2 par value common stock
at prices ranging from $2 per share within six months
of issuance, to $6 per share during the fifth year after
issuance.
Preferred stockholders of Consolidated will receive one
share of new common stock ($2 par value) for each 5hare
of old preferred or an aggregate of 285,947 shares of new
common.
A warrant to purchase one share of new common for
$1 within three months of issuance will be given to the
common stockholders of Consolidated for each five shares
of old common.'
The new preferred stock, to be received by the old
bondholders, will elect four out of nine directors of the
new company; the new common stock will elect the re"All of the new income bonds and preferred stock are to be
issued to the public holders of Union and Consumers bonds.
"79,491 shares of new common will be reserved for the exercise

of warrants issued to old common stockholders; an additional 60,280
shares of new common, for the exercise of warrants attached to the
new preferred.

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

517

Opinion of the Court.

mainder. 4 But on designated delinquencies in payment
of interest on the new bonds, the old bondholders would
be entitled to elect six of the nine directors.
The bonds of Union and Consumers held by Consolidated,' the stock of those companies held by Consolidated, and the intercompany claims (discussed hereafter) will be cancelled.
In 1929 when Consolidated acquired control of these
various properties, they were appraised in excess of $16,000,000 and it was estimated that their annual net earnings would be $500,000. In 1931 they were appraised
by officers at about $4,400,000, "exclusive of going concern, good will and current assets." The District Court
did not find specific values for the separate properties
of Consolidated, Union, or Consumers, or for the properties of the enterprise as a unit. The average of the
valuations (apparently based on physical factors) given
by three witnesses 16 at the hearing before the master
were $2,202,733 for Union as against a mortgage indebtedness of $2,280,555; $1,151,033 for Consumers as against
a mortgage indebtedness of $1,358,715. Relying on similar testimony, Consolidated argues that the value of its
property, to be contributed to the new company, is over
$1,359,000, or exclusive of an alleged good will of $500,000, $859,784. These estimated values somewhat conflict with the consolidated balance sheet (as at June 30,
1938) which shows assets of $3,723,738.15 and liabilities
(exclusive of capital and surplus) of $4,253,224.41.
More important, the earnings record of the enterprise
'It is apparent that the majority of the new common will be held
by the old preferred stockholders even if all warrants are exercised.
"See notes 3 and 5, supra.
"Two officers and one ex-employee. These valuation figures included the properties of Reliance. See note 8, supra.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 t. S.

casts grave doubts on the soundness of the estimated
values. No dividends were ever paid on Consolidated's
common:stock; and except for five quarterly dividends in
1929 and 1931, none on its preferred stock. For the
eight and a half years from April 1, 1929, to September
30, 1937, Consolidated had a loss of about $1,200,000 before bond interest but after depreciation and depletion.
And except for the year 1929, Consolidated had no net
operating profit, after bond interest and amortization,
depreciation and depletion, in any year down to September 30, 1937.1" Yet on this record the District Court
found that the present fair value of all the assets of the
several companies, exclusive of good will and going concern value, was in excess of the total bonded indebtedness, plus accrued and unpaid interest. And it also
found that such value, including good will and going
concern value, was insufficient to pay the bonded indebtedness plus accrued and unpaid interest and the liquidation preferences and accrued dividends on Consolidated
preferred stock. It further found that the present fair
value of the assets admittedly subject to the trust indentures of Union and Consumers was insufficient to pay the
face amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest of the respective bond issues. In spite of that finding, the District Court also found that "it would be physically impossible to determine and segregate with any degree of
accuracy or fairness properties which originally belonged
to the companies separately"; that as a result of unified
operation properties of every character "have been commingled and are now in the main held by Consolidated
without any way of ascertaining what part, if any
thereof, belongs to each or any of the companies separately"; and that, as a consequence, an appraisal "would
"The hearings on the plan were held before a master during
November, 1937.

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

519

Opinion of the Court.

be of such an indefinite and unsatisfactory nature as to
produce further confusion."
The unified operation which resulted in that commingling of assets was pursuant to an operating agreement which Consolidated caused its wholly owned subsidiaries 11 to execute in 1929. Under that agreement the
subsidiaries ceased all operating functions and the entire
management, operation and financing of the business and
properties of the subsidiaries were undertaken by Consolidated. The corporate existence of the subsidiaries,
however, was maintained and certain separate accounts
were kept. Under this agreement Consolidated undertook, inter alia, to pay the subsidiaries the amounts necessary for the interest and sinking fund provisions of the
indentures and to credit their current accounts with
items of depreciation, depletion, amortization and obsolescence.1 Upon termination of the agreement the properties were to be returned and a final settlement of
accounts made, Consolidated meanwhile to retain all net
revenues after its obligations thereunder to the subsidiaries had been met. It was specifically provided that
the agreement was made for the benefit of the parties,
not "for the benefit of any third person." Consolidated's
This agreement covered the properties of Reliance as well as
Union and Consumers. By a modification made in 1933 the agreement was to -expire in February, 1938, Consolidated having an
option to extend the agreement for another five years on specified

notice.
'The agreement was modified in 1933 (by two officers acting for
each of the four companies) whereby the depreciation to be credited
to the subsidiaries should be credited only on termination of the
agreement. At that time Consolidated was to have the right, by
paying a five per cent penalty, to pay twenty-five per cent of the

amount of the depreciation credit in ten annual installments and the
balance at the end of ten years from the date of termination.
Some question has been raised as to the propriety of that modifi-

cation, a question on which we express no opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

books as at June 30, 1938, showed a net indebtedness
under that agreement to Union and Consumers of somewhat over $5,000,000. That claim was cancelled by the
plan of reorganization, no securities being issued to the
creditors of the subsidiaries therefor. The District Court
made no findings as respects the amount or validity of
that intercompany claim; it summarily disposed of it
by concluding that any liability under the operating
agreement was "not made for the benefit of any third
parties and the bondholders are included in that
category."
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that it
was error to confirm this plan of reorganization.
I. On this record no determination of the fairness of
any plan of reorganization could be made. Absent the
requisite valuation data, the court was in no position to
exercise the "informed, independent judgment" (National Surety Co. v. Coriell, 289 U. S. 426, 436) which
appraisal of the fairness of a plan of reorganization entails. Case v. Los Angeles. Lumber Products Co., 308
U. S. 106. And see First National Bank v. Flershem,
290 U. S. 504, 525. There are two aspects of that valuation problem.
,In the first place, there must be a determination of
what assets are subject to the payment of the respective
claims. This obvious requirement was not met. The
status of the Union and Consumers bondholders emphasizes its necessity and importance. According to the
District Court the mortgaged assets are insufficient to
pay the mortgage debt. There is no finding, however, as
to the extent of the deficiency or the amount of unmortgaged assets and their value. It is plain that the bondholders would have, as against Consolidated and its
stockholders, prior recourse against any unmortgaged
assets of Union and Consumers. The full and absolute
priority rule of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

521

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 482, and Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co.,
supra, would preclude participation by the equity interests in any of those assets until the bondholders had
been made whole. Here there are some unmortgaged
assets, for there is a claim of Union and Consumers
against Consolidated-a claim which according to the
books of Consolidated is over $5,000,000 in amount. If
that claim is valid, ' or even if it were allowed only to
the extent of 25% of its face amount,2' then the entire
assets of Consolidated would be drawn down into the
estates of the subsidiaries. In that event Union and
Consumers might or might not be solvent in the bankruptcy sense. But certainly it would render untenable
the present contention of Consolidated and the preferred
stockholders that they are contributing all of the assets
of the Consolidated to the new company in exchange for
which they are entitled to new securities. On that
theory of the case they would be making a contribution
of only such assets of Consolidated, if any, as remained
after any deficiency of the bondholders had been wholly
satisfied.
There are no barriers to a valuation and enforcement
of that claim. If as Consolidated maintains the subsidiaries have no present claim against it,"2 the claim
Consolidated seems to admit that that claim is valid, at least
to the extent of net current liabilities aggregating more than $250,000
as of June 30, 1938Respondent points out that even on the basis of a $3,300,000
valuation of the properties of Union and Consumers depreciation, depletion and obsolescence charges would be approximately
$1,250,000.
' Consolidated maintains that there is no present claim against
it because no claim exists until termination of the operating agreement Which ran until February 1938, with an option in Consolidated
to extend it for five years. But it does not assert, nor does the

record show, that the option was exercised. But even if it had been,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

can readily be discounted to present worth. It is provable by trustees of the subsidiaries, for th term "creditors" under § 77B (b) includes "holders of claims of
whatever character against the debtor or its property,
including claims under executory contracts, whether or
not such claims would otherwise constitute provable
claims under this Act." 2 Consolidated makes some
point of the difficulty and expense of determining the
extent of its liability under the operating agreement and
of the necessity to abide by the technical terms of that
agreement 2 in ascertaining that liability. But equity
will not permit a holding company, which has dominated and controlled its subsidiaries, to escape or reduce
its liability to those subsidiaries by reliance upon selfserving contracts which it has imposed on them. 'A
holding company, as well as others in dominating or
controlling positions (Pepper v. Litton, 308 U. S. 295),
has fiduciary duties to security holders of its system
which will be strictly enforced. See Taylor v. Standard
Gas& Electric Co., 306 U. S. 307. In this connection Consolidated cannot defeat or postpone the accounting because of the clause in the operating agreement that it
was not made for the benefit of any third person. The
question here is not a technical one as to who may sue
to enforce that liability. It is merely a question as to
the amount by which Consolidated is indebted to the
only the time when the amounts accrued were payable would be
affected.
"For an equally broad definition of "creditor" under Ch. X of
the Chandler Act (52 Stat. 840) see § 106 (1) and (4).
' Thus Consolidated argues that under the operating agreement
the machinery for an appraisal provided therein must be employed.
Yet assuming arguendo that that is true, Consolidated which has
been in possession and control throughout cannot rely on the failure
to have an appraisal as a reasoi for blocking or delaying its duty
to account.

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

523

Opinion of the Court.

subsidiaries and the proof and allowance of that claim.
The subsidiaries need not be sent into state courts to
have that liability determined. The bankruptcy court
having exclusive jurisdiction over the holding company
and the subsidiaries has plenary power to adjudicate all
the issues pertaining to the claim. The intimations of
Consolidated that there must be foreclosure proceedings
and protracted litigation in state courts involve a misconception of the duties and powers of the bankruptcy
court. The fact that Consolidated might have a strategic or nuisance value outside of § 77B does not detract
from or impair the power and duty of the bankruptcy
court to require a full accounting as a condition precedent to approval of any plan of reorganization. The
fact that the claim might be settled, with the approval
of the Court after full disclosure and notice to interested
parties, does not justify the concealed compromise
effected here through the simple expedient of extinguishing the claim.
So far as the ability of the bondholders of Union and
Consumers to reach the assets of Consolidated on claims
of the kind covered by the operation agreement is concerned, there is another and more direct route which
reaches the same end. There has been a unified operation of those several properties by Consolidated pursuant to the operating agreement. That operation not
only resulted in extensive commingling of assets. All
management functions of the several companies were
assumed by Consolidated. The subsidiaries abdicated.
Consolidated operated them as mere departments, of its
own business. Not even the formalities of separate corporate organizations were observed, except in minor
particulars such as the maintenance of certain separate
accounts. In view of these facts, Consolidated is in no
position to claim that its assets are insulated from such

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

claims of creditors of the subsidiaries. To the contrary,
it is well settled that where a holding company directly
intervenes in the management of its subsidiaries so as to
treat them as mere departments of its own enterprise,"
it is responsible for the obligations of those subsidiaries incurred or arising during its management. Davis
v. Alexander, 269 U. S., 114, 117; Joseph R. Foard Co. v.
Maryland, ,219 F. 827, 829; Stark Electric R. Co. v.
M'Ginty ContractingCo., 238 F. 657, 661-663; The Willem Van Driel, Sr., 252 F. 35, 37-39; Luckenbach S. S
Co. v. W. R. 'Grace & Co., 267 F. 676, 681; Costan v.
Manila Electric Co., 24 F. 2d 383; Kingston Dry Dock
Co. v. Lake Champlain Transp. Co., 31 F. 2d 265, 267;
Dillard & Coffin Co. v. Richmond Cotton Oil Co., 140
Tenn. 290; 204 S. W. 758. We are not dealing here with
a situation where other creditors of a parent company
are competing with- creditors of its subsidiaries. If meticulous regard to corporate forms, which Consolidated
has long ignored, is now observed, the stockholders of
Consolidated may be the direct beneficiaries. Equity
will not countenance such a result. A holding company
which assumes to treat the properties of its subsidiaries
as its own cannot take the benefits of direct management without the burdens.
We have already noted that no adequate finding was
made as to the value of the assets of Consolidated. In
view of what we have said, it is apparent that a determination of that value must be made so that criteria
will be available to determine an appropriate allocation
of new securities between bondholders and stockholders
in case there is an equity remaining after the bondholders have been made whole.
There is another reason why the failure to ascertain
what assets are subject to the payment of the Union
and Consumers bonds is fatal. There is a question raised
as to the fairness of the plan as respects the bondholders

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

525

Opinion of the Court.

inter sese. While the total mortgage debt of Consumers
is less than that of Union, the net income of the new company, as we have seen,25 is to be divided into two equal
parts, one to service the new securities issued to Consumers bondholders, the other to service those issued to
Union bondholders. That allocation is attacked here by
respondent as discriminatory against Union, on the
ground that the assets of Union are much greater in
volume and in value than those of Consumers. It does
not appear from this record that Union and Consumers
have individual earnings records. If they do not, some
appropriate formula for at least an approximate ascertainment of their respective assets must be designed in
spite of the difficulties occasioned by the commingling.
Otherwise the issue of fairness of any plan of reorganization as between Union and Consumers bondholders cannot be intelligently resolved.
In the second place, there is the question of the method
of valuation. From this record it is apparent that little,
if any, effort was made to value the whole enterprise by
a capitalization of prospective earnings. The necessity
for such an inquiry is emphasized by the poor earnings
record of this enterprise in the past. Findings as to the
earning capacity of an enterprise are essential to a determination of the feasibility as well as the fairness of a
plan of reorganization. Whether or not the earnings
may reasonably be expected to meet the interest and
dividend requirements of the new securities is a sine
qua non to a determination of the integrity and practicability of the new capital structure. It is also essential
for satisfaction of the absolute priority rule of Case v.
Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., supra. Unless meticulous regard for earning capacity be had, indefensible
" Supra, note 10.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

participation of junior securities in plans of reorganization may result.
As Mr. Justice Holmes said in Galveston, H. & S. A.
Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 226, "the commercial
value of property consists in the expectation of income
from it." And see Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Backus, 154 U. S.439, 445. Such criterion is the appropriate one here, since we are dealing with the issue of
solvency arising in corinection with reorganization plans
involving productive properties. It is plain that valuations for other purposes are not relevant to or helpful
in a determination of that issue, except as they may indirectly bear on earning capacity. Temmer v. Denver
Tramway Co., 18 F. 2d 226, 229; New York Trust Co. v.
Continental & Commercial Trust & Say. Bank, 26 F. 2d
872, 874. The criterion of earning capacity is the essential one if the enterprise is to be freed from the heavy
hand of past errors, miscalculations or disaster, and if
the allocation of securities among the various claimants
is to be fair and equitable. In re Wickwire Spencer Steel
Co., 12 F. Supp. 528, 533; 2 Bonbright, Valuation of
.Property, pp. 870-881, 884-893. Since its application
iequires a prediction as to what will occur in the future,
an estimate, as distinguished from mathematical certitude, is all that can be made. But that estimate must
be based on an informed judgment which embraces all
facts relevant to future earning capacity and hence to
present worth, including, of course, the nature and condition of the properties, the past earnings record, and all
circumstances which indicate whether or not that record
is a reliable criterion of future performance. A sum of
values based on physical factors and assigned to separate
units of the property without regard to the earning capacity of the whole enterprise is plainly inadequate. See
Finletter, The Law of Bankruptcy Reorganization, pp.
557 et seq. But hardly more than that was done, here.

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

527

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals correctly left the matter of
a formal appraisal to the discretion of the District Court.
The extent and method of inquiry necessary for a valuation based on earning capacity are necessarily dependent
on the facts of each case.
II. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the absolute priority rule of Northern Pacifip Ry. Co. v. Boyd,
supra, and Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co.,
supra, applied to reorganizations of solvent as well as
insolvent companies. That is true. Whether a company is solvent or insolvent in either the equity or the
bankruptcy sense, "any arrangement of the parties by
which the subordinate rights and interests of the stockholders are attempted to be secured at the expense of
the prior rights" of creditors "comes within judicial denunciation." Louisville Trust Co. v. Louisville, N. A. &
C. Ry. Co., 174 U. S. 674, 684. And we indicated in
Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., supra, that
that rule was not satisfied even though the "relative
priorities" of creditors and stockholders were maintained
(pp. 119-120).
The instant plan runs afoul of that principle. In the
first place, no provision is made for the accrued interest
on the bonds. This interest is entitled to the same priority as the principal. See American Iron & Steel Mfg.
Co. v. Seaboard Air Line Ry., 233 U. S. 261, 266-267;
Ticonic National Bank v. Sprague, 303 U. S. 406. In
the second place, and apart from the cancellation of interest, the plan does not satisfy the fixed principle of the
Boyd case even on the assumption that the enterprise as
a whole is solvent in the bankruptcy sense. The bondholders for the principal amount of their 6% bonds receive an equal face amount of new 5% income bonds
and preferred stock, while the preferred stockholders
receive new common stock. True, the relative priorities are maintained. But the bondholders have not been

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

made whole. They have received an inferior grade of
securities, inferior in the sense that the interest rate has
been reduced, a contingent return has been substituted
for a fixed one, the maturities have been in part extended
and in part eliminated by the substitution of preferred
stock, and their former strategic position has been weakened. Those lost rights are of value. Full compensatory provision must be made for the entire bundle of
rights which the creditors surrender.
The absolute priority rule does not mean that bondholders cannot be given inferior grades of securities, or
even securities of the same grade -as are received by
junior interests. Requirements of feasibility 2 of reorganization plans frequently necessitate it in the interests
of simpler and more conservative capital structures.
And standards of fairness permit it. This was recognized in Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union
Trust Co., 271 U. S. 445. This Court there said (p. 455)
that though "to the extent of their debts creditors are
entitled to priority over stockholders against all the
property" of the debtor company, "it does not follow
that in every reorganization the securities offered to
general creditors must be superior in rank or grade to
any which stockholders may obtain. It is not impossible to accord to the creditor his superior rights in other
ways." And the Court went on to say (p. 456), "No
offer is fair which does not recognize the prior rights of
creditors . . .; but circumstances may justify an offer of
different amounts of the same grade of securities to both
creditors and stockholders." Thus it is plain that while
creditors may be given inferior grades of securities, their
"superior rights" must be recognized. Clearly, those
prior rights are not recognized, in cases where stockholders are participating in the plan, if creditors are
- §77B (f) (1).

CONSOLIDATED ROCK CO. v. DU BOIS.
510

529

Opinion of the Court.

given only a face amount of inferior securities equal to
the face amount of their claims. They must receive, in
addition, compensation for the senior rights which they
are to surrender. If they receive less than that full
compensatory treatment, some of their property rights
will be appropriated for the benefit of stockholders without compensation. That is not permissible. The plan
then comes within judicial denunciation because it does
not recognize the creditors' "equitable right to be preferred to stockholders against the full value of all property belonging to the debtor corporation." Kansas City
Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co., supra,
p. 454.
Practical adjustments, rather than a rigid formula, are
necessary. The method of effecting. full compensation
for senior claimants will vary from case to case. As indicated in the Boyd case (228 U. S. at p. 508) the creditors are entitled to have the full value of the property,
whether "present or prospective, for dividends or only
for purposes of control," first appropriated to.payment of
their claims. But whether in case of a solvent company
the creditors should be made whole for the change in or
loss of their seniority by an increased participation in
assets, in earnings or in control, or in any combination
thereof, will be dependent on the facts and requirements
of each case.2
So long as the new securities offered are
'In view of the condition of the record relative to the value of
the properties and the fact that the accrued interest is canceUed by
the plan, it is not profitable to attempt a detailed discussion of the
deficiencies in the alleged compensatory treatment of the bondholders. It should, however, be noted as respects the warrants
issued to the old common stockholders that they admittedly have
no equity in the enterprise. Accordingly, it should have been shown
that there was a necessity of seeking new money from them and
that the participation accorded them was not more than reasonably
equivalent to their contribution. Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v.
301335°-41-34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

of a value equal to the creditors' claims, the appropriateness of the formula employed rests in the informed dis*cretion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, however, made certain
statements which if taken literally do not comport with
the requirements of the absolute priority rule. It apparently ruled that a class of claimants with a lien on
specific properties must receive full compensation out
of those properties, and that a plan of reorganization is
per se unfair and inequitable if it substitutes for several
old bond issues, separately secured, new securities constituting an interest in all of the properties. That does
not follow from Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products
Co., supra. If the creditors are adequately compensated
for the loss of their prior claims, it is not material out
of what assets they are paid. So long as they receive
full compensatory treatment and so long as each group
shares in the securities of the whole enterprise on an
equitable basis, the requirements of "fair and equitable"
are satisfied.
Any other standard might well place insuperable obstacles in the way of feasible plans of reorganization.
Certainly where unified operations of separate properties
are deemed advisable and essential, as they were in this
case, the elimination of divisional mortgages may be
Central Union Trust Co., supra; Case v. Los Angeles Lumber
Products Co., supra, pp. 121-122. In the latter case we warned
against the dilution of creditors' rights by inadequate contributions
by stockholders. Here that dilution takes a rather obvious form
in view of the lower price at which the stockholders may exercise
the warrants. Warrants exercised by them would dilute the value
of common stock purchased by bondholders during the same period.
Furthermore, on Consolidated's estimate of the equity in the enterprise, the values of the new common would have to increase many
fold to reach a value which exceeds the warrant price by the amount
of the accrued interest.

HELVERING v. LE GIERSE.
510

Syllabus.

necessary as well as wise. Moreover, the substitution
of a simple, conservative capital structure for a highly
complicated one may be a primary requirement of any
reorganization plan. There is no necessity to construct
the new capital structure on the framework of the old.
Affirmed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. LE GIERSE ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 237. Argued January 9, 10, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.
1. Within the meaning of § 302 (g) of the Revenue Act of 1926 as
amended, amounts "receivable as insurance" are amounts receivable
as the result of transactions which involved at the time of their
execution an actual insurance risk. P. 537.
2. Risk-shifting and risk-distribution are essentials of a contract of
life insurance. P. 539.
3. A contract in the standard form of a life insurance policy, containing the usual provisions, including those for assignment or
surrender, was issued to a woman of eighty years of age, without
physical examination, for a single premium less than the face
of the policy, together with an annuity policy for another premium
calling for annual payments to her until her death Although
both policies were, on the face, separate contracts, neither referring
to the other, and each Was treated as independent in the matters
of application, computation of premium, report and book entry
of premium payment, maintenance of reserve, etc., they were
issued at the same time, and the making of the annuity contract
was a condition to the issuance of the life policy; and the combined
effect was such that, in case of premature death, the gain to the
insurance company under one would neutralize its loss under the
other. Held:
(1) That the contracts must be considered together. P. 540.
(2) They created no insurance risk. P. 541.

