KELLEAM v. MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. 377
Syllabus.

KELLEAM ET AL. v. MARYLAND CASUALTY CO.
OF BALTIMORE, MD., T AL.
CERTIORARI TO ThE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 349.

Argued February 5, 1941.-Decided February 17, 1941.

1. A federal court of equity should not grant a receivership except
as ancillary to some primary relief which is sought and which
equity-may appropriately grant. P. 380.
2. The reasons for such restraint are reinforced where the tights to
the property sought to be conserved by a receivership are .being
litigated in a state court. P. 381.
3. A remedial right to proceed in a federal court, sitting in.equity
can not be enlarged by a state statute. P. 382.
4. After an estate had been distributed to heirs and the administrator and his surety discharged by a decree of a state prbbate
court, and while an appeal by other heirs from a refusal, of that
court to set aside the decree for fraud was pending before another
state court, the surety company entered a federal court on the
ground of diversity of citizenship and sought protection against
its contingent liability by a bill which impleaded all of the heirs,
alleging that the probate decree was fraudulent and praying that
the defendants be required to set up their claims and that a
receiver be appointed to preserve the property pending the outcome of their dispute. For ought that appeared, the surety could
have obtained protection in the cause pending in the state court:
Held:
(1) That appointment by the federal court of a receiver was
an abuse of discretion. P. 382.
(2) Since the bill should have been dismissed as to the surety,
it having no present claim to relief on its own behalf in the federal court, that court had no jurisdiction to adjudicate the claims
of the heirs, there not being diversity of citizenship between
them. P. 382.
(3) If the bill were to be construed as presenting a controversy
between heirs which the federal court might otherwise have juris,
diction to adjudicate, that court could not properly proceed because the very controversy was before a state court in an action

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

not simply in personam but involving adjudication of rights to
specific property. P. 382.
112 F. 2d 940, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 627, to review the affirmance.of
a decree appointing a receiver, providing for exoneration
of the administrator's surety, adjudicating the rights of
heirs in a decedent's estate, establishing a lien, ordering
an accounting, etc.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This controversy has its origin in a probate proceeding
in an Oklahoma court. Petitioner, E. A. Kelleam, was
administrator in that proceeding. Respondent, Maryland Casualty Company, was surety on his bond. The
probate court held that all of decedent's property was a
maternal ancestral estate to which the full-blood heirs,
E. A. Kelleam and Nell Southard, were entitled to the
exclusion of the half-blood heirs, the individual respondents here. Such distribution was ordered and the administrator and Maryland Casualty Company were discharged from further liability. No appeal was taken;
but shortly thereafter the half-blood heirs brought an
action in the Oklahoma court to set aside that decree,
alleging that petitioners E. A. Kelleam and Nell Southard
had perpetrated a fraud upon the probate.court and that
the half-bloods were entitled to participation, the estate
being a general not an ancestral estate. A demurrer to
the complaint was sustained and an appeal was taken to
the Oklahoma District Court where it is now pending.
After that suit had been commenced' respondent-surety,
learning that E. A. Kelleam and Nell Southard had transferred some of the property received from the estate,'
1 Respondent-surety apparently was served with notice of that suit
arid appeared therein for the purpose of quashing the notice.
According to the findings below, transfers were made to petitioners

Joe E. Kelleam and Joe R. Southard, Jr.

KELLEAM v. MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. 379
377

Opinion of the Court.

brought this suit in the United States District Court,
joining the full-bloods and the half-bloods as defendants
and invoking federal jurisdiction on the basis of diversity
of citizenship. In this suit in equity ' respondent-surety
sought exoneration on its bond, alleged that its remedy
at law was inadequate, and prayed that a receiver be
appointed to preserve the decedent's property pending
the outcome of the dispute between the heirs, and that
the parties be required to set up whatever claims they
might have to the property. By their answer and crosspetition, the half-bloods renewed their claims of fraud
in the probate decree and joined in the prayer for the appointment of a receiver. The answers of petitioners alleged, inter alia, lack of jurisdiction in the federal court
by reason of the action in the state court; and they
moved to strike the cross-petition for lack of jurisdiction.
By an amendment to its bill respondent-surety added allegations charging fraud in the probate decree. The District Court found that petitioners E. A. Kelleam and Nell
Southard, knowing of the existence of the other heirs,
fraudulently concealed those facts from the probate court,
gave no notice to the other heirs as required by law,. and
represented that E. A. Kelleam was a resident of Oklahoma when he was not; that the administrator failed to
appoint a service agent as required by Oklahoma statutes; that the estate was fraudulently represented as an
ancestral estate and that petitioners E. A. Kelleam and
Nell Southard in furtherance of the plan to defraud the
half-bloods consummated a settlement with some of them
in exchange for their agreement not to contest the probate decree; that that decree, having been obtained by
fraud, was void as to the half-bloods; that the intermediate conveyances by petitioners E. A. Kelleam and Nell
Southard were fraudulent; that the remaining assets of
' This was not a bill of interpleader under 49 Stat. 1096, 28 U. S. C.

ยง 41 (26) nor a suit under the Federal Declaratory Judgment Act,
48 Stat. 955, 49 Stat. 1027; 28 U. S. C. ยง 400.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

the estate were in danger of being dissipated; that respondent-surety would become liable to the half-bloods
for failure of the administrator to perform his duties; and
that the property should be preserved pending a final
order of accounting. Accordirgly, it appointed a receiver, decreed that respondent-surety was entitled to exoneration by having designated property applied to the
satisfaction of the interests of the half-bloods, decreed
that the half-bloods were owners of designated undivided
interests in the estate, established a lien thereon, and
ordered petitioners E. A. Kelleam and Nell Southard to
account. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 112
F. 2d 940. We granted certiorari because of the challenged propriety of the action of the District Court in
appointing a receiver and in adjudicating matters at issue
in the state court.
We think the bill should have been dismissed.
The essential purpose of the bill was to secure the appointment of a receiver so as to conserve the property
and to impress it with a lien for the surety's protection.
The surety had no stake in the outcome of the dispute
among the heirs beyond its contingent right to exoneration. In this posture of the case it is manifest that respondent-surety sought the receivership not as a means
to an end but as an end in itself. The receivership was
ancillary only in the sense that it was protective of the
surety whatever the future outcome of the controversy
between the heirs. The surety was not presently liable
on its bond; its liability and its right to exoneration were
wholly contingent, being dependent on a successful attack
on the probate decree by the half-bloods. That attack
was currently being made in the state court.
Accordingly, a receiver should not have been appointed.
The error in the appointment was not a question of authority but of propriety. Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294
U. S. 176; Gordon v. Washington, 295 U. S. 30. As this

.KELLEAM v. MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. 381
377

Opinion of the Court.

Court stated in the Gordon case (p. 37): "A receivership
is only a means to reach some legitimate end sought
through the exercise of the power of a court of equity.
It is not an end in itself." Receiverships for conservation of property "are to be watched with jealous eyes lest
their function be perverted." Michigan v. Michigan
Trust Co., 286 U. S. 334, 345. This Court has frequently
admonished that a federal'court of equity should not appoint a receiver where the appointment is not a remedy
auxiliary to some primary relief which is sought and
which equity may appropriately grant. Booth v. Clark,
17 How. 322, 331; Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261
U. S. 491; Gordon v. Washington, supra. And the reasons for such restraint are reinforced where the rights to
the property sought to be conserved by a receivership
are being litigated in a state court. Cf. Penn General
Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S. 189; Pennsylvania v. Williams, supra. There was here no accrued
right of the surety as respects the enforcement of which
the receivership was an ancillary remedy, its right to exoneration being wholly contingent.' The existence of
any right to exoneration was dependent on the outcome
of the action which was pending in the Oklahoma court.
.In view of those circumstances, equity practice does not
sanction the use of a conservation receivership to protect
such a claim. Furthermore, from all that appears, the
surety could be adequately protected in the cause pending
in the Oklahoma court by provisional remedies or otherwise.
Respondent-surety contends that under Oklahoma
statutes a surety may obtain indemnity against his prin'Cf. Glades County v. Detroit Fidelity & Surety Co., 57 F. 2d 449,
452; Morley Construction Co. v. Maryland Casualty Co., 90 F. 2d
976; Southwestern Surety Ins. Co. v. Wells, 217 F. 294; Central
Surety & Ins. Corp. v. Bagley, 44 F. 2d 808; Arant, Suretyship
(1931) pp. 318-321.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

,312 U. S.

cipal even before the debt is due and receive the protection of various provisional remedies. Even so, a "remedial right to proceed in a federal court sitting in equity
cannot be enlarged by a state statute." Pusey & Jones
Co. v. Hanssen, supra, p. 497.
For these reasons, the appointment of the receiver was
an abuse of discretion.
Since respondent-surety had no present claim to relief
on its own behalf in the federal court, that court had no
jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute between the fullbloods and the half-bloods. Even if, on this record, the
presence of respondent-surety would support a claim to
diversity of citizenship, that diversity was lacking as between the other parties. Hence once the bill of complaint were dismissed, no jurisdiction would remain for
any grant of relief under the cross-petition. See Kromer
v. Everett Imp. Co., 110 F. 22. And even if the bill be
construed as drawing in issue the merits of the controversy between the heirs which the federal court had jurisdiction to adjudicate within the rule of Arrowsmith v.
Gleason, 129 U. S. 86, and Sutton v. English, 246 U. S.
199, 205, that court could not with propriety proceed. A
case involving that very controversy was pending in the
Oklahoma court. That case did not involve simply an
in personam action. Cf. Kline v. Burke Construction
Co., 260 U. S. 226. It involved an adjudication of rights
to specific property distributed pursuant to a probate decree. Cf. Penn General Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania,
supra, at p. 195. The federal court therefore should not
have asserted its authority. In such a case it is "in the
public interest that federal courts of equity should exercise their discretionary power with proper regard for the
rightful independence of state governments in carrying
out their domestic policy." Pennsylvania v. Williams,
supra, p. 185.
Reversed.

