OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 82. Argued December 19, 20, 1940.-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 provides for fixing minimum
wages and maximum hours for employees engaged in the production
of goods for interstate commerce, with increased compensation for
overtime, and forbids, under pain of fine and imprisonment:
(1) violation by an employer of such wage and hour provisions;
(2) shipment by him in interstate commerce of any goods in the
production of which any employee was employed in violation of
such provisions; and (3) failure of the employer to keep such records of his employees and of their wages and hours, as shall be prescribed by administrative regulation or order. Held within the
commerce power and consistent with the Fifth and Tenth Amendments. P. 111.
2. While manufacture is not of itself interstate commerce, the shipment of manufactured goods interstate is such commerce and the
prohibition of such shipment by Congress is a regulation of interstate commerce. P. 113.
3. Congress, following its own conception of public policy concerning
the restrictions which may appropriately be imposed on interstate
commerce, is free to exclude from it articles whose use in the
State for which they are destined it may conceive to be injurious
to the public health, morals or welfare, even though the State has
not sought to regulate their use. P. 114.
4. Such regulation is not a forbidden invasion of state power merely
because either its motive or its consequence is to restrict the use
of articles of commerce within the States of destination; and is
valid uniess prohibited by other Constitutional provisions. P. 114.
5. The motive and purpose of the present regulation are plainly to
make effective the Congressional conception of public policy that
interstate commerce should not be made the instrument of competition in the distribution of goods produced under substandard
labor conditions, which competition is injurious to the commerce
and to the States from and to which it flows. P. 115.
6. The motive and purpose of a regulation of interstate commerce
are matters for the legislative judgment upon the exercise of which
the Constitution places no restriction and over which the courts
are given no control. P. 115.

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

101

Statement of the Case.

7. In prohibiting interstate shipment of goods produced under the
forbidden substandard labor conditions the Act is within the authority of Congress, if no Constitutional provision forbids: P. 115.
8. Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, overruled; Carter v. Carter
Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, declared to have been limited. Pp.
115, 123.
9. The "production for interstate commerce" intended by the Act
includes, at least, production of goods, which, at the time of
production, the employer, according to the normal course of his
business, intends or expects to move in interstate commerce although, through the exigencies of the business, all of the goods
may not thereafter actually enter interstate commerce. P. 117.
10. The power of Congress over interstate commerce extends to
those intrastate activities which so affect interstate commerce or
the exercise of the power of Congress over it as to make their
regulation an appropriate means to the attainment of a legitimate
end,-the exerciso of the granted power of Congress to regulate
interstate commerce. P. 118.
11. Congress, having by the present Act adopted the policy of excluding from interstate commerce all goods produced for that commerce which do not conform to the specified labor standards, it
may choose the means reasonably adapted to the attainment of
the permitted end, even though they involve control of intrastate
activities. P. 121.
12. Independently of the prohibition of shipment or transportation
of the proscribed goods, the provision of the Act for the suppression
of their production for interstate commerce is within the commerce power. P. 122.
13. The Tenth Amendment is not a limitation upon the authority
of the National Government to resort to all means for the exercise
of a granted power which are appropriate and plainly adapted
to the permitted end. P. 123.
14. The requirements of the Act as to the keeping of records are
valid as incidental to the wage and hour requirements. P. 124.
15. The wage and hour provisions of the Act do not violate the
due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. P. 125.
16. In its criminal aspect, the Act is sufficiently definite to meet
constitutional demands. P. 125.
32 F. Supp. 734, reversed.

APPEAL, under the Criminal Appeals Act, from a judg-

ment quashing an indictment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

312 U. S.

Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Assistant Attorney General Arnold and Messrs. Robert L. Stern,
Hugh B. Cox, Warner W. Gardner, J. Saxton Daniel,
Gerard D. Reilly, and Irving J. Levy were on the brief,
for the United States.
No State, acting alone, could require labor standards
substantially higher than those obtaining in other States
whose producers and manufacturers competed in the interstate market. Employers with lower labor standards
possess an unfair advantage in interstate competition,
and only the national government can deal with the
problem.
The congressional committees made specific findings
which were embodied in the Act as the congressional
judgment that low labor standards were detrimental to
the health and efficiency of workers, caused the channels
of interstate commerce to spread those labor conditions
among the States, burdened interstate commerce, led to
labor disputes obstructing that commerce, and constituted an unfair method of competition. These findings
accord with facts of which this Court has already taken
judicial notice, and are conclusive.
The incapacity of the individual States to remedy the
serious evils resulting from long hours and low wages in
interstate industry rests in part upon the commerce
clause itself, which prevents the States from forbidding
importation of goods produced under substandard conditions. Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511. And, even if
a State could constitutionally protect its industries within
its own borders, it could not safeguard them against the
loss of their markets in other States. The commerce
clause was designed to empower the national government
to deal with such problems.
The phrase "interstate commerce" had at the time of
the adoption of the Constitution a meaning equivalent
to "the interrelated business transactions of the several

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Argument for the United States.

States." Lexicographers, economists, and authors used
the term "commerce" to refer not only to the narrow
concept of sale or exchange, but to include the entire
moneyed economy, embracing production and manufacture as well as exchange.
The decisions of this Court, from the beginning, have
recognized that the commerce clause gives Congress
power to meet the economic problems of the Nation,
whatever they may be. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
194-195. See also Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.352,
398. Labor conditions, so far from being the concern
of the individual States alone, can now adequately be regulated only by Congress. The commerce clause, in incapacitating the States, gives the requisite power to Congress.
Section 15 (a) (1) forbids the interstate shipment of
goods produced under substandard labor conditions. The
provision is on its face a regulation of interstate commerce, and therefore within the powers of Congress.
Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S.38; Electric Bond & Share
Co. v. Commission, 303 U. S.419, 442; Kentucky Whip
& Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 299 U. S.334, 347.
It can no longer be asserted that the power of Congress
to restrict or condition interstate commerce is limited to
articles in themselves harmful or deleterious.
The suggestion that Congress cannot regulate interstate commerce for ends which do not concern commerce
itself is also unavailing. The Act, intended to prevent
unfair competition and the spread of harmful conditions
in interstate commerce, has a goal which is commercial
in the strictest sense. But, even if it were concerned
simply with humanitarian ends, it would none the less be
within the commerce power. That power is measuredby
what it regulates, not by what it affects.
Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S.251, has been repudiated by subsequent decisions of this Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

312 U. S.

Section 15 (a) (2) is an appropriate means by which
to keep the interstate channels free of goods produced
under substandard conditions. Intrastate acts lie within
the power of Congress when necessary effectively to control interstate transactions, and Congress need not wait
until transporiation commences in its effort to protect
the flow of commerce. Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342.
Even if § 15 (a) (2) were entirely independent of
§ 15 (a) (1), it would constitute a valid control over
unfair competition in interstate commerce.
The Labor Board Cases are controlling because Congress has found that § 15 (a) (2) will diminish the obstructions to interstate commerce which flow from labor

disputes.
The Schechter case, 295 U. S. 495, applied only to
local activities after interstate commerce had ended.
The CarterCoal case, 298 U. S. 238, is wholly inconsistent
with the subsequent decisions of this Court, in particular
Santa Cruz Fruit Packing Co. v. National Labor Rela-

tions Board, 303 U. S. 453, and should now be overruled.
Sections 11 (c) and 15 (a) (5), requiring employers to
keep records and forbidding them to make false reports,
are ancillary to the regulatory sections of the Act.
The Tenth Amendment merely reserves to the States
"the powers not delegated to the United States." That
it is not a limitation upon the exercise of the powers
which are delegated to the Federal Government is confirmed by the history of its adoption.
From Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 325,
to Wright v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 502,

516, the Court has repeatedly recognized that the Tenth
Amendment adds nothing to the Constitution. A few
of the relatively recent decisions of this Court suggesting
a contrary view cannot be taken to have overruled sub
silentio so important a constitutional doctrine.
The Act does not violate the Fifth Amendment.

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Argument for Appeilee.

Mr. Archibald B. Lovett for appellee.
The Act attempts to. regulate conditions in the production of goods, and can not be sustained as a power
delegated to Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
The origin of the commerce clause, the nature of our
cohstitutional system, and the course of judicial decisions prevent.
A prohibition of shipment in interstate commerce is
not necessarily within the congressional power. United
States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1; Hammer v. Dagenhart,
247 U. S. 251; Labor Board Cases, 301 U. S. 1, et seq.;
Baily v. Drexel Furniture Co., 259 U. S. 20.
Nor is the imposition of conditions upon shipment
in interstate commerce necessarily valid regulation. The
subjects upon which the conditions react must be examined to determine whether the requisite relation to
the needs of interstate commerce exists. If prohibition
per se be valid, Congress could deny the channels of interstate commerce to commodities produced with labor of
a certain creed or color.
A clear distinction exists between the power of Congress to prohibit interstate shipments of harmful and
deleterious goods and its power to regulate shipments of
useful commodities. Prohibition of shipments of harmful commodities does not infringe upon, but supplements,
the powers of the other governmental units which might
be affected; whereas, in the case of useful and harmless commodities the separate interests are unequally
affected.
Mere similarity of commercial problems which are
common to all of the States does not mean that Congress
may legislate with respect to such problems. The concentration of population in urban areas and the increasing use of motor vehicles have created serious traffic
problems in all of the States of the Union. But the
cumulative effect of these conditions upon commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Appellee.

312 U. S.

among the States and their prevalence throughout the
country would not validate uniform regulation of 'traffic
by Congress.
The Congressional power over intrastate commerce is
limited to the regulation of intrastate activities which
directly affect interstate commerce. Schechter Poultry
Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 548; Carter v.
Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 308.
Conditions in production like those involved here have
always been held to affect interstate commerce only indirectly. Their control is therefore subject solely to the
reserved powers of the States.
The proposition that every conceivable legislative
power is conferred by § 8 of Article I of the Constitution
is in direct conflict with the doctrine that the Federal
Government is a government of enumerated powers.
Moreover, there is no need for a finding that legislative
power over every matter of concern to the people of the
States and of the Nation is lodged in either the State or
Federal Governments, individually or collectively, since
the Tenth Amendment expressly stipulates that certain
powers are reserved to the people. Kansas v. Colorado,
206 U. S. 46, 89-91.
Administrative expediency can not justify regulation
of intrastate matters where the result is to obscure completely the boundaries of national and state power.
Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495,
507-508; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 246,
292, et seq.
The doctrine which permits the regulation of intrastate
transactions which are so commingled with interstate
transactions that all must be regulated if the latter are
to be effectively controlled, is inapplicable.
Although not required to stay its hand until actual
movement in interstate commerce begins, Congress may
extend its power only to those transactions occurring be-

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Argument for Appellee.

fore the commencement of interstate movement whose
relationship to interstate commerce is sufficiently close
and substantial to justify congressional action.
Failure to conform to the statutory standard of minimum wages and maximum hours in such manufacturing
establishments as appellee's does not in such a manner
affect interstate commerce, nor constitute such an unfair
method of competition, as to be subject to the regulatory
power of Congress.
The Government's argument is an indirect attack upon
the dual system of government established by the Constitution. Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295
U. S. 495, 549.
The Government would solve the problem of the division of governmental powers by rendering the Federal
Government dominant in all commercial and economic
matters.
The power to control the conditions of production in
the manner attempted by the Act is the power to impose
the standard of living of one section of the country upon
another, to discriminate against the industries of one
section and in favor of those of another, and to equalize
economic conditions by eliminating the economic advantages of more fortunate localities. If Congress may eliminate differentials in labor conditions, it may likewise
eliminate other economic differentials which affect conditions in interstate commerce. Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.
1, 21-22.
Cases cited under the Federal Trade Commission Act
and under the Sherman Act are inapplicable. In those
decisions the condemned practices tended to restrict competition in interstate commerce..
The fact that individual States can not adequately
protect the markets which lie outside their borders for
the orderly sale of their products does not vest in the
national government unqualified power to regulate competition in those interstate markets.

i08

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Failure to conform to the statutory standard of minimum wages and maximum hours in such manufacturing
establishments as appellee's does not lead to. labor disputes which burden and obstruct commerce, nor interfere
with the orderly and fair marketing of goods in commerce.
The Act deprives appellee of liberty and property without due process of law, and of 'the freedom of contract
guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment. It is arbitrary and
capricious; and is indefinite as to what persons are subject to its penal provisions.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The two principal questions raised by the record in
this case are, first, whether Congress has constitutional
power to prohibit the shipment in interstate commerce
of lumber manufactured by employees whose wages are
less than a prescribed minimum or whose weekly hours
of labor at that wage are greater than a prescribed maximum, and, second, whether it has power to prohibit the
employment of workmen in the production of goods "for
interstate commerce" at other than prescribed wages and
hours. A subsidiary question is whether in connection
with such prohibitions Congress can require the employer
subject to them to keep records showing the hours worked
each day and week by each of his employees including
those engaged "in the production and manufacture of
goods to-wit, lumber, for 'interstate commerce.'
Appellee demurred to an indictment found in the
district court for southern Georgia charging him with
violation of § 15 (a) (1) (2) and (5) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938; 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201,
et seq. The district court sustained the demurrer and
quashed the indictment and the case comes here on direct

appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code as amended, 28

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. C. § 345, and § 682, Title 18 U. S. C;, 34 Stat. 1246,
which authorizes an appeal to this Court when the judgment sustaining the demurrer "is based upon the invalidity or construction of the statute upon which the indictment is founded.".
The Fair Labor Standards Act set up a comprehensive
legislative scheme for preventing the shipment in interstate commerce of certain products and commodities produced in the' United States under labor conditions as
respects wages and hours which fail to conform to standards set up by the Act. Its purpose, as we judicially
know from the declaration' of policy in § 2 (a) of the
Act,' and the reports of Congressional committees proposing the legislation, S. Rept. No. 884, 75th Cong. 1st
Sess.; H. Rept. No. 1452, 75th Cong. 1st Sess.; H. Rept.
No. 2182, 75th Cong. 3d Sess., Conference Report, H.
Rept. No. 2738, 75th Cong. 3d Sess., is to exclude from
interstate commerce goods produced for the commerce
and to prevent their production for interstate commerce,
under conditions detrimental to the maintenance of the
minimum standards of living necessary for health and
general well-being; and to prevent the use of interstate
'Sec. 2. (a) The Congress hereby finds that the existence, in industries engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, of labor conditions detrimental to the maintenance of the
minimum standard of living necessary for health, efficiency, and
general well-being of workers (1) causes commerce and the channels and instrumentalities of commerce to be used to spread and
perpetuate such labor conditions among the workers'of the several
States; (2) burdens commerce and the free flow of goods in commerce; (3) constitutes an unfair method of competition in
commerce; (4) leads to labor disputes burdening and obstructing
commerce and the free flow of goods in commerce; and (5) interferes
with the orderly and fair marketing of goods in commerce.
Section 3 (b) defines "commerce" as "trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States or
from any State to any place outside thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

commerce as the means of competition in the distribution
of goods so produced, and as the means of spreading and
perpetuating such substandard labor conditions among
the workers of the several states. The Act also sets up
an administrative procedure whereby those standards
may from time to time be modified generally as to industries subject to the Act or within an industry in accordance with specified standards, by an administrator
acting in collaboration with "Industry Committees" appointed by him.
Section 15 of the statute prohibits certain specified acts
and § 16 (a) punishes willful violation of it by a fine of
not more than $10,000 and punishes each conviction after
the first by imprisonment of not more than six months
or by the specified fine or both. Section 15 (1) makes
unlawful the shipment in interstate commerce of any
goods "in the production of which any employee was
employed in violation of section 6 or section 7," which
provide, among other things, that during the first year of
operation of the Act a minimum wage of 25 cents per
hour shall be paid to employees "engaged in [interstate]
commerce or the production of goods for [interstate]
commerce," § 6, and that the maximum hours of employment for employees "engaged in commerce or the production of goods for commerce" without increased compensation for overtime, shall be forty-four hours a week.
§ 7.
Section 15 (a) (2) makes it unlawful to violate the
provisions of § § 6 and 7 including the minimum wage and
maximum hour requirements just mentioned for employees engaged in production of goods for commerce.
Section 15 (a) (5) makes it unlawful for an employer
subject to the Act to violate § 11 (c) which requires him
to keep such records of the persons employed by him and
of their wages and hours of employment as the administrator shall prescribe by regulation or order.

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

The indictment charges that appellee is engaged, in
the State of Georgia, in the business of acquiring raw
materials, which he manufactures into finished lumber
with the intent, when manufactured, to ship it in interstate commerce to customers outside the state, and that
he does in fact so ship a large part of the lumber so produced. There are numerous counts charging appellee
with the shipment in ipterstate commerce from Georgia
to points outside the state of lumber in the production of
which, for interstate commerce, appellee has employed
workmen at less than the prescribed minimum wage or
more than the prescribed maximum hours without payment to them of any wage for overtime. Other counts
charge the employment by appellee of workmen in the
production of lumber for interstate commerce at wages
at less than 25 cents an hour or for more than the maximum hours per week without payment to them of the
prescribed overtime wage. Still another count charges
appellee with failure to keep records showing the hours
worked each day -aweek by each of his employees as
required by § 11 (c) and the regulation of the administrator, Title 29, Ch. 5, Code ot Federal Regulations, Part
516. and also that appellee unlawfully failed to keep
such records of employees engaged "in the production
and manufacture of goods, to-wit lumber, for interstate
colmlnlefee."
The demurrer, so far as now relevant to the appeal,
challenged the validity of the Fair Labor Standards Act
under the Commerce Clause and the Fifth and Tenth
Amen(ments. The district court quashed the indictinent in its entirety upon the broad grounds that the Act,
which it interpreted as a regulation of manufacture
within the states, is unconstitutional. It declared that
manufacture is not interstate commerce and that the regulation by the Fair Labor Standards Act of wages and
hours of employment of those engaged in the manufac-

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

ture of goods which it is intended at the time of production "may or will be" after production "sold in interstate
commerce in part or in whole" is not within the congressional power to regulate interstate commerce.
The effect of the court's decision and judgment is thus
to deny the power of Congress to prohibit shipment in
interstate commerce of lumber produced for interstate
commerce under the proscribed substandard labor conditions of wages and hours, its power to penalize the employer for his failure to conform to the wage and hour
provisions in the case of employees engaged in the production of lumber which he intends thereafter to ship in interstate commerce in part or in whole according to the
normal course of his business and its power to compel him
to keep records of hours of employment as required by
the statute and the regulations of the administrator.
The case comes here on assignments by the Government that the district court erred insofar as it held that
Congress was without constitutional power to penalize
the acts set forth in the indictment, and appellee seeks
to sustain the decision below on the grounds that the prohibition by Congress of those Acts is unauthorized by the
Commerce Clause and is prohibited by the Fifth Amendment. The appeal statute limits our jurisdiction on this
appeal to a review of the determination of the district
court so far only as it is based on the validity or construction of the statute. United States v. Borden Co., 308
U. S. 188, 193-195, and cases cited. Hence we accept the
district court's interpretation of the indictment and confine our decision to the validity and construction of the
statute.
The prohibitionof shipment of the proscribedgoods in
interstate commerce. Section 15 (a) (1) prohibits, and
the indictment charges, the shipment in interstate commerce, of goods produced for interstate commerce by
employees whose wages and hours of employment do not

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

conform to the requirements of the Act. Since this section is not violated unless the commodity shipped has
been produced under labor conditions prohibited by § 6
and § 7, the only question arising under the commerce
clause with respect to such shipments is whether Congress has the constitutional power to prohibit them.
While manufacture is not of itself interstate commerce,
the shipment of manufactured goods interstate is such
commerce and the prohibition of such shipment by Congress is indubitably a regulation of the commerce. The
power to regulate commerce is the power "to prescribe
the rule by which commerce is governed." Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196. It extends not only to those
regulations which aid, foster and protect the commerce,
but embraces those which'prohibit it. Reid v. Colorado,
187 U. S. 137; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321; United States
v. Delaware& Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366; Hoke v. United
States, 227 U. S. 308; Clark Distilling Co. v. Western
Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311; United States v. Hill,
248 U. S. 420; McCormick & Co. v. Brown, 286 U. S. 131.
It is conceded that the power of Congress to prohibit
transportation in interstate commerce includes noxious
articles, Lottery Case, supra; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 45; cf. Hoke v. United States, supra;
stolen articles, Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432;
kidnapped persons, Gooch v. United States, 297 U. S. 124,
and articles such as intoxicating liquor or convict made
goods, traffic in which is forbidden or restricted by the
laws of the state of destination. Kentucky Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 299 U. S. 334.
But it is said that the present prohibition falls within
the scope of none of these categories; that while the prohibition is nominally a regulation of the commerce its.
motive or purpose is regulation of wages and hours of
persons engaged in manufacture, the control of which
has been reserved to the states and upon which Georgia
301335°-41-8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

and some of the states of destination have placed no restriction; that the effect of the present statute is not to
exclude the proscribed articles from interstate commerce
in aid of state regulation as in Kentucky Whip & Collar
Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra, but instead, under
the guise of a regulation of interstate commerce, it undertakes to regulate wages and hours within the state contrary to the policy of the state which has elected to leave
them unregulated.
The power of Congress over interstate commerce "is
complete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent,
and acknowledges no limitations other than are prescribed in the Constitution." Gibbons v. Ogden, supra,
196. That power can neither be enlarged nor diminished
by the exercise or non-exercise of state power. Kentucky
Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra.
Congress, following its own conception of public policy
concerning the restrictions which may appropriately be
imposed on interstate commerce, is free to exclude from
the commerce articles whose use in the states for which
they are destined it may conceive to be injurious to the
public health, morals or welfare, even though the state
has not sought to regulate their use. Reid v. Colorado,
supra; Lottery Case, supra; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, supra; Hoke v. United States, supra.
Such regulation is not a forbidden invasion of state
power merely because either its m6tive or its consequence
is to restrict the use of articles of commerce within the
states of destination; and is not prohibited unless by other
Constitutional provisions. It is no objection to the assertion of the power to regulate interstate commerce that
its exercise is attended by the same incidents which attend the exercise of the police power of the states. Seven
Cases v. United States, 239 U. S. 510, 514; Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Co., .251 U. S. 146,
156; United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

144, 147; United States v. Appalachian Electric Power
Co., 311 U. S. 377.
- The motive and purpose of the present regulation are
plainly to make effective the Congressional conception of
public policy that interstate commerce should not be
made the instrument of competition in the distribution
of goods produced under substandard labor conditions,
which competition is injurious to the commerce and to
the states from and to which the commerce flows. The
motive and purpose of a regulation of interstate commerce are matters for the legislative judgment upon the
exercise of which the Constitution places no restriction
and over which the courts are given no control. McCray
v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; Sonzinsky v. United
States, 300 U. S. 506, 513 and cases cited. "The judicial
cannot prescribe to the legislative department of the government limitations upon the exercise of its acknowledged power." Vcazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533.
Whatever their motive and purpose, regulations of commerce which do not infringe some constitutional prohibition are within the plenary power conferred on .Congress
by the Commerce Clause. Subject only to that limitation, presently to be considered, we conclude that the prohibition of the shipment interstate of goods produced under the forbidden substandard labor conditions is within
the constitutional authority of Congress.
In the more than a century which has elapsed since the
decison of Gibbons v. Ogden, these principles of constitutional interpretation have been so long and repeatedly
recognized by this Court as applicable to the Commerce
Clause, that there would be little occasion for repeating
them now were it not for the decision of this Court twenty-two years ago in Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251.
In that case it was held by a bare majority of the Court
over the powerful and now classic dissent of Mr. Justice
Holmes setting forth the fundamental issues inVolved,

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S

that Congress was without power to exclude the products
of child labor from interstate commerce. The reasoning
and conclusion of the Court's opinion there cannot be
reconciled with the conclusion which we have reached,
that the power of Congress under the Commerce Clause
is plenary to exclude any article from interstate commerce
subject only to the specific prohibitions of the Constitution.
Hammer v. Dagenhart has not been followed. The
distinction on which the decision was rested that Congressional power to prohibit interstate commerce is limited to articles which in themselves have some harmful
or deleterious property-a distinction which was novel
when made and unsupported by any provision of the
Constitution-has long since been abandoned. Brooks v.
United States, supra; Kentucky Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra; Electric Bond & Share Co. v.
Securities & Exchange Comm'n, 303 U. S. 419; Mulford
v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38. The thesis of the opinion that the
motive of the prohibition or its effect to control in some
measure the use or production within the states of the
article thus excluded from the commerce can operate to
deprive the regulation of its constitutional authority has
long since ceased to have force. Reid v. Colorado, supra;
Lottery Case, supra; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States,
supra; Seven Cases v. United States, supra, 514; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Co., supra,
156; United States v. Carolene Products Co., supra, 147.
And finally we have declared "The authority of the federal government over interstate commerce does not differ
in extent or character from that retained by the states
over intrastate commerce." United States v. Rock Royal
Co-operative,307 U. S. 533, 569.
The conclusion is inescapable that Hammer v. Dagenhart, was a departure from the principles which have prevailed in the interpretation of the Commerce Clause both

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

before and since the decision and that such vitality, as a
precedent, as it then had has long since been exhausted.
It should be and now is overruled.
Validity of the wage and hour requirements. Section
15 (a) (2) and §§ 6 and 7 require employers to conform
to the wage and hour provisions with respect to all employees engaged in the production of goods for interstate
commerce. As appellee's employees are not alleged to be
"engaged in interstate commerce" the validity of the prohibition turns on the question whether the employment,
under other than the prescribed labor standards, of employees engaged in the production of goods for interstate
commerce is so related to the commerce and so affects it
as to be within the reach of the power of Congress to
regulate it.
To answer this question we must at the outset determine whether the particular acts charged in the counts
which are laid under § 15 (a) (2) as they. were construed
below, constitute "production for commerce" within the
meaning of the statute. As the Government seeks to
apply the statute in the indictment, and. as the court below construed the phrase "produced for interstate commerce," it embraces at least the case where an employer
engaged, as is appellee, in the manufacture and shipment of goods in filling orders of extrastate customers,
manufactures his product with the intent or expectation
that according to the normal course of his business all
or some part of it will be selected for shipment to those
customers.
Without attempting to define the precise limits of the
phrase, we think the acts alleged in the indictment are
within the sweep of the statute. The obvious purpose
of the Act was not only to prevent the interstate transportation of the proscribed product, but to stop the initial
step toward transportation, production with the purpose
of so transporting it. Congress was not unaware that

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

most manufacturing businesses shipping their product in
interstate commerce make it in their shops without reference to its ultimate destination and then after manufacture select some of it for shipment interstate and some
intrastate according to the daily demands of their business, and that it would be practically impossible, without
disrupting manufacturing businesses, to restrict the prohibited kinid of production to the particular pieces of lumber, cloth, furniture or the like which later move in interstate rather than intrastate commerce. Cf. United States
v. New York Central R. Co., 272 U. S. 457, 464.
The recognized need of drafting a workable statute and
the well known circumstances in which it was to be--applied are persuasive of the conclusion, which the legislative history supports, S. Rept. No. 884, 75th Cong. 1st
Sess., pp. 7 and. 8; H. Rept. No. 2738, 75th Cong. 3d
Sess., p. 17, that the "production for commerce" intended
includes at least production of goods, which, at the time
of production, the employer, according to the normal
course of his business, intends or expects to move in interstate commerce although, through the exigencies of the
business, all of the goods may not thereafter actually enter interstate commerce. '
There remains the question whether such restriction
on the production of goods for commerce is a permissible
exercise of the commerce power. The power of Congress
over interstate commerce is not confined to the regulation of conmerce among the states. It extends to those
activities intrastate which so affect interstate commerce
or the exercise of the power of Congress over it as to make
regulation of them appropriate means to the attainment
of a legitimate end, the exercise of the granted power of
Congress to regulate interstate commerce. See McCulC,

'Cf. Administrator's Opinion, Interpretative Bulletin No. 5, 1940
Wage and Hour Manual, p. 131 et seq.

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

loch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421. Cf. United States
v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199.
While this Court has many times found state regula;tion of interstate commerce, when uniformity of its regulation is of national concern, to be incompatible with the
Commerce Clause even though Congress has not legislated on the subject, the Court has never implied such restraint on state control over matters intrastate not
deemed to be regulations of interstate commerce or its
instrumentalities even though they affect the-commerce.
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 398 et seq., and.
case cited; 410 et seq., and cases cited. In the absence of
Congressional legislation on the subject state laws which
are not regulations of the commerce itself or its instrumentalities are not forbidden even though they affect
interstate commerce. Kidd v.. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1;
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S.
172.
But it does not' follow that Congress may not by appropriate legislation regulate intrastate activities where
they have a substantial effect on interstate commerce.
See Santa Cruz Fruit Packing Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 303 U. S. 453, 466. A recent example is
the National Labor Relations Act for the regulation of
employer and employee relations in industries in which
strikes, induced by unfair labor practices named in the
Act, tend to disturb or obstruct interstate commerce.
See National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 38, 40; National Labor Relations
Board v. Fainblatt, 306 U. S. 601, 604, and cases cited.
But long before the adoption of the National Labor Relations Act this Court had many times held that the power
of Congress to regulate interstate commerce extends to
the regulation through legislative action of activities in-

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

trastate which have a substantial effect on the commerce
or the exercise of the Congressional power over it.8
In such legislation Congress has sometimes left it to
the courts to determine whether the intrastate activities
have the prohibited effect on the commerce, as in the
Sherman Act. It has sometimes left it to an administrative board or agency to determine whether the activities sought to be regulated or prohibited have such effect,
as in the case of the Interstate Commerce Act, and the
National Labor Relations Act, or whether they come
within the statutory definition of the prohibited Act, as
in the Federal Trade Commission Act. And sometimes
Congress itself has said that a particular activity affects
the commerce, as it did in the present Act, the Safety Appliance Act and the Railway Labor Act. In passing on
the validity of legislation of the class last mentioned the
only function of courts is to determine whether the particular activity regulated or prohibited is within the reach
It may prohibit wholly intrastate activities which, if permitted,
would result in restraint of interstate commerce. Coronado Coal
Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295, 310; Local 167 v. United
States, 291 U. S. 293, 297. It may regulate the activities of a local
grain exchange shown to have an injurious effect on interstate
commerce. Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1. It may
regulate intrastate rates of interstate carriers where the effect of the
rates is to burden interstate commerce. Houston, B. & W. Texas
Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342; Railroad Commission of
Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; United States
v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70, 74; Floridav. United States, 292 U. S. 1.
It may compel the adoption of safety appliances on rolling stock
moving intrastate because of the relation to and effect of such appliances upon interstate traffic moving over the same railroad. Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20. It may prescribe maximum hours for employees engaged in intrastate activity connected
with the movement of any train, such as train dispatchers and
telegraphers. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 221 U. S. 612, 619.

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

of the federal power. See United States v. Ferger, supra,
Virginian Ry. Co. v. Federation,300 U. S. 515, 553.
Congress, having by the present Act adopted the policy of excluding from interstate commerce all goods produced for the commerce which do not conform to the
specified labor standards, it may choose the means reasonably adapted to the attainment of the permitted end,
even though they involve control of intrastate activities.
Such legislation has often been sustained with respect to
powers, other than the commerce power granted to the
national government, when the means chosen, although
not themselves within the granted power, were nevertheless deemed appropriate aids to the accomplishment of
some purpose within an admitted power of the national
government. See Jacob Ruppert, Inc. v. Caffey, 251 U.,S.
264; Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545, 560;
Westfall v. United States, 274 U. S. 256, 259. As to state
power under the Fourteenth Amendment, compare Otis
v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606, 609; St. John v. New York, 201
U. S. 633; Purity Extract & Tonic Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S.
192, 201-202. A familiar like exercise of power is the
regulation of intrastate transactions which are so commingled with or related to interstate commerce that all
must be regulated if the interstate commerce is to be
effectively controlled. Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342;
Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. & Q. R.
Co., 257 U. S. 563; United States v. New York Central
R. Co., supra, 464; Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1; Mulford v. Smith, supra. Similarly Congress may require inspection and preventive treatment of all cattle in a disease infected area in order to prevent shipment in interstate commerce of some of the cattle without the treatment. Thornton v. United States, 271 U. S. 414. It
may prohibit the removal, at destination, of labels required by the Pure Food & Drugs Act to be affixed to ar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

ticles transported in interstate commerce. McDermott
v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115. And we have recently held
that Congress in the exercise of its power to require inspection and grading of tobacco shipped in interstate
commerce may compel such inspection and grading of all
tobacco sold at lbcal auction rooms from which a substantial part but -notall of the tobacco sold is shipped in interstate commerce. Currin v. Wallace, supra, 11, and see
to the like effect United States v. Rock Royal Co-op.,
supra, 568, note 37.
We think also that § 15 (a) (2), now under consideration, is sustainable independently of § 15 (a) (1), which
prohibits shipment or transportation of the proscribed
goods. As we have said the evils aimed at by the Act
are the spread of substandard labor conditions through the
use of the facilities of interstate commerce for competition by the goods so produced with those produced under
the prescribed or better labor conditions; and the consequent dislocation of the commerce itself caused by the
impairment or destruction of local businesses by competition made effective through interstate commerce. The
Act is thus directed at the suppression of a method or
kind of competition in.interstate commerce which it has
in effect condemned as "unfair," as the Clayton Act has
condemned other "unfair methods of competition" made
effective through interstate commerce. See Van Camp
& Sons Co. v. American Can Co., 278. U. S. 245; Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304.
The Sherman Act and the National Labor Relations
Act are familiar examples of the exertion of the commerce
power to prohibit or control activities wholly intrastate
because of their effect on interstate commerce. See as to
the Sherman Act, Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375; United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525; United
Mine Workers v: Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344; Local

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

No. 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293; Stevens Co. v.
Foster & Kleiser Co., 311 U. S. 255. As to th'e National
Labor Relations Act, see National Labor Relations Board

v. Fainblati,supra, and cases cited.
The means adopted by § 15 (a) (2) for the protection
of interstate commerce by the suppression of the production of the condemned goods for interstate commerce is
so related to the commerce and so affects it as to be within
the reach of the commerce power. See Currinv. Wallace,
supra, 11. Congress, to attain its objective in the suppression of nationwide competition in interstate commerce by goods produced under substandard labor conditions, has made no distinction as to the volume or amount
of shipments in the commerce or of production for commerce by any particular shipper or producer. It recognized that in present day industry, competition by a
small part may affect the whole and that the total effect
of the competition of many small producers may be great.
See H. Rept. No. 2182, 75th Cong. 1st Sess., p. 7. The
legislation aimed at a whole embraces all its parts. Cf.
National Labor Relations Board v. Fainblatt, supra,
606.
So far as Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, is
inconsistent with this conclusion, its doctrine is limited in
principle by the decisions under the Sherman Act and the
National Labor Relations Act, which we have cited and
which we follow. See also Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co.
v. Adkins, 310 U. S.381; Currin v. Wallace, supra; Mulford v. Smith, supra; United States v. Rock Royal Co-op.,
supra; Clover Fork Coal Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 97 F. 2d 331; National Labor Relations Board v.
Crowe Coal Co., 104 F. 2d 633; National Labor Relations
Board v. Good Coal Co., 110 F. 2d 501.
Our conclusion is unaffected by the Tenth Amendment
which provides: "The powers not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the
people." The amendment states but a truism that all is
retained which has not been surrendered. There is nothing in the history of its adoption to suggest that it was
more than declaratory of the relationship between the
national and state governments as it had been established
by the Constitution before the amendment or that its
purpose was other than to allay fears that the new national government might seek to exercise powers not
granted, and that the states might not be able to exercise
fully their reserved powers. See e. g., II Elliot's Debates,
123, 131; III id. 450, 464, 600; IV id. 140, 149; I Annals
of Congress, 432, 761, 767-768; Story, Commentaries on
the Constitution, §§ 1907-1908.
From the beginning and for many years the amendment has been construed as not depriving the national
government of authority to resort to all means for the
exercise of a granted power which are appropriate and
plainly adapted to the permitted end. Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 324, 325; McCulloch v. Maryland, supra, 405, 406; Gordon v. United States, 117 U. S.
697, 705; Lottery Case, supra; Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, supra, 344-345; Everard's Breweries v.
Day, supra, 558; United States v. Sprague, 282 U. S.716,
733; see United States v. The Brigantine William, 28 Fed.
Cas. No. 16,700, p. 622. Whatever doubts may have
arisen of the soundness of that conclusion, they have been
put at rest by the decisions under the Sherman Act and
the National Labor Relations Act which we have cited.
See also, Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297
U. S. 288, 330-331; Wright v. Union Central Ins. Co.,
304 U. S.502, 516.
Validity of the requirement of records of wages and
hours. § 15 (a) (5) and § 11 (c). These requirements
are incidental to those for the prescribed wages and

UNITED STATES v. DARBY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

hours, and hence validity of the former turns on validity
of the latter. Since, as we have held, Congress may require production for interstate commerce to conform to
those conditions, it may require the employer, as a means
of enforcing the valid law, to keep a record showing
whether he has in fact complied with it. The requirement for records even of the intrastate transaction is an
appropriate means to the legitimate end. See Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 221 U. S.
612; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit
Co., 224 U. S. 194; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262
U. S. 1, 42.
Validity of the wage and hour provisions under the
Fifth Amendment. Both provisions are minimum wage
requirements compelling the payment of a minimum
standard wage with a prescribed increased wage for overtime of "not less than one and one-half times the regular
rate" at which the worker is employed. Since our decision in West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, 300 U. S. 379,
it is no longer open to question that the fixing of a minimum wage is within the legislative power and that the
bare fact of its exercise is not a denial of due process
under the Fifth more than under the Fourteenth Amendment. Nor is it any longer open to question that it is
within the legislative power to fix maximum hours.
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Muller v. Oregon, 208
U. S. 412; Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426; Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, supra.
Similarly the statute is not objectionable because applied
alike to both men and women. Cf. Bunting v. Otegon,
243 U. S. 426.
The Act is sufficiently definite to meet constitutional
demands. One who employs persons, without conforming to the prescribed wage and hour conditions, to work
on goods which he ships or expects to ship across state

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

liucs, is warned that he may be subject to the criminal
penalties of the Act. No more is required. Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 377.
We have considered, but find it unnecessary to discuss
other contentions.
Reversed.
OPP COTTON MILLS, INC., ET AL. v. ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT:

No. 330. Argued December 20, 1940-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. Wage and hours provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as
applied to manufacturers of textile goods for interstate commerce,
held within the commerce power and consistent with the Fifth and
Tenth Amendments. United States v. Darby, ante, p. 100. P. 142.
2. In the exertion of its legislative powers, Congress may provide
that administrative findings of fact, made in conformity to previously adopted legislative standards and definitions of Congressional
policy, shall be prerequisite to the operation of its statutory command. P. 144.
The adoption of the declared policy by Congress and its definition
of the circumstances in which its command is to be effective, constitute the performance, in the constitutional sense, of the legislative function.
3. Where the standards set tip for the guidance of the' administrative
agency, the procedure which it is directed to follow, and the record
of its action which is required by the statute to be kept, or which
is in fact preserved, are such that Congress, the courts and the public can ascertain whether the agency has conformed to the standards which Congress has prescribed, there is no failure of performance of the legislative function. P. 144.
4. The Fair Labor Standards Act, to the extent that it authorizes
the Administrator and the industry committees appointed by him
to classify industries and fix minimum wages, is not an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. Pp. 142, 145.

