COMMISSION v.. BRASHEAR LINES.
Syllabus.

PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF MISSOURI ET
AL. V. BRASHEAR FREIGHT LINES, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 549.

FOR THE

Argued March 10, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

1. A motion to assess damages in a case under Jud. Code § 266 in
which an injunction has been dissolved and the bill dismissed should
be determined by the District Court in the exercise of its ordinary
jurisdiction without participation by the two additional judges.
P. 625.
2. A judgment of the District Court dismissing a motion to assess
damages in a case decided by the court of three judges (Jud.
Code § 266), is not invalidated by the fact that the two additional judges took part in its consideration; and, though not appealable directly to this Court, it is reviewable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, whose action upon it may in turn be reviewed
here on certiorari. P. 626.
3. In a suit by numerous carriers by truck to enjoin state officials
from enforcing a state statute imposing license fees, wherein the
District Court, in dissolving an injunction and dismissing the bill,
had dismissed, without hebring its merits, a cQunterclaim for the
license fees owing by the several plaintiffs, tle dismissal having
been based upon a doubt of the right of the defendants to maintain such a counterclaim and having been made without prejudice
to any right to maintain an independent suit or suits thereon,held, that the ruling was not decisive of the right of defendants
to obtain by motion at the end of the litigation an assessment
of damages caused by the injunction, and costs. P. 626.
4. The plaintiffs having prevented collection of lawful license fees
on behalf of the State of Missouri through an injunction obtained
in a suit against the State's Attorney General, its Public Service
Commission, and other public agencies, charging that the fees were
unconstitutional and that the defendants threatened to collect
them, and many of the plaintiffs having failed before the injunction was dissolved to deposit the fees falling due from them, as
required by the injunction order and their injunction bonds, held:
(1) That the plaintiffs have no standing to resist a motion for
assessment of damages upon the ground that the statutory power

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

to collect such fees is lodged in the State Treasurer, who was not
a party to the suit. P. 627.
,(2) Whoever has the power in Missouri to c6llect such license
fees, the Attorney General has exclusive authority to bring suits
in the name and on behalf of the State. P. 627.
(3) The defendant officials And agencies were proper parties
to invoke an assessment of damages on behalf of the State.
P. 628.
(4) The District Court, sitting in equity, has power to see
that whatever sums are recovered go to the proper state 'officials.
P. 628.
5. The District Court abused its discretion in refusing. to assess
damages in the injunction suit, thus remitting the State and
its officials to many action's at law against the plaintiffs, some of
them possibly in other States, and giving rise to serious problems
in the apportionment of damages, including costs and expenses of
litigation. P. 630.
It is especially fitting that equity exert its full strength in order
to protect from loss a State which has been injured by reason of a
suspension of enforcement of state laws imposed by equity itself.
114 F. 2d 1, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 642, to review a decree which

affirmed the District Court's denial of a motion to assess
damages and costs in an injunction suit.
Mr. Daniel C. Rogers, with whom Messrs. James H.
Linton and Edgar H. Wayman were on the brief, for

petitioners.
Mr. Kenneth Teasdale, with whom Mr. Paul G.
Koontz was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ILACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The issues in this case revolve around the power of a
federal District Court to assess damages allegedly caused
by a temporary injunction issued by the court but later
dissolved on final hearing. These issues grow out of
this situation: Respondents in this Court, seventy-six

COMMISSION v. BRASHEAR LINES.
621

Opinion of the Court.

individuals, partnerships, and corporations operating
trucks as common carriers in interstate commerce, filed a
bill in the federal District Court to enjoin petitioners
here, Missouri officials and agencies, from enforcing
against them certain allegedly unconstitutional tax and
license features of the Missouri Bus and Truck Law.1
A single district judge granted a temporary restraining
order under which respondents were required to post injunction bonds and under which the contested fees were
to be deposited with a trustee during the litigation. But
because the bill sought to restrain state officials from
enforcing an allegedly unconstitutional state statute, the
case was set down for hearing before a three judge District Court pursuant to § 266 of the Judicial Code as
amended, 28 U. S. C. § 380. Petitioners, in their answer
to respondents' complaint, counterclaimed for fees and
licenses the respondents had failed to pay in the past'
and later amended the counterclaim to include amounts
the respondents failed to deposit with the trustee during
the litigation. Ultimately, the three judge court found
the Bus and)Truck Law constitutional, dissolved the restraining order, dismissed the truck operators' bill, and
also ordered the counterclaim dismissed without prejudice because of "serious doubt as to the right of the de'Mo. Rev. Stats. (1929) § 5272, as amended by Mo. Laws (1931),
p. 311. The Missouri officials were the Attorney General, the
Superintendent of the State Highway Patrol, the State Highway
Commission, and the Public Service Commission. The ground of

attack on the statute was that it violated the Federal Constitution
and the federal Motor Carrier Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 543, 49 U. S. C.
§§ 301-327 (Supp. 1939).
'Respondents denied "each and every allegation, statement and
thing" contained in the counterclaim. Later they contended that
it was the understanding of the parties that should the counterclaim
become material, then this pleading could be withdrawn and "an
opportunity to plead fully" to the counterclaim be exercised. Petitioners denied that there was any such understanding.

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

fendants to maintain" such an action. The truck operators did not appeal from the dismissal of their bill.
Petitioners' attempt to bring the dismissal of their counterclaim here by direct appeal was dismissed for want
of jurisdiction. 306 U. S. 204. Thereupon the petitioners, on their own behalf and "in behalf of the State
of Missouri and of the State Treasurer," filed in the three
judge court a motion for assessment of damages and
costs against the truck operators and their injunction
bond sureties. That court denied the requested relief
on the ground that the questions presented by the motion for damages had been ruled upon and finally determined by the judgment dismissing the original counterclaim. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed,8 but on
a different ground. It held that the motion to assess
damages involved issues ancillary to the original litigation, which would require a long and complicated inquiry; that such litigation is not the type for which a
three judge court is provided; that the three judge court,
however, did have jurisdiction to consider the motion
if it saw fit, or to remit it to the single district judge;
and that the action actually taken by the three judge
court was' final, since under the circumstances that court
had not abused its discretion. We granted certiorari,
311 U. S. 642, primarily because of the procedural importance of determining the statutory function of a three
judge court in dealing with questions such as those here
presented. The case as presented to us requires that
we give consideration to these questions:
1. Should the two additional judges, called to assist
the district judge pursuant to § 266, have participated
in consideration of the motion to assess damages?
2. Was the District Court correct in holding that its
prior denial of the counterclaim was a final adjudication
'114 F. 2d 1.

COMMISSION v. BRASHEAR LINES.
621

Opinion of the Court.

of the issues presented by petitioners' motion to assess
damages?
3. Were the enjoined Missouri officials and. agencies,
to whom the injunction bonds ran, proper parties to
invoke the court's action for assessment of damages?
4. Did the District Court erroneously exercise its discretionary power, by its refusal to hear and determine
the merits of petitioners' motion to assess damages?
First. We are of opinion that the two judges called in
under § 266 to assist the district judge in passing upon
the application for injunction should not have participated in consideration of the motion to assess damages.
The limited statutory duties of the specially constituted
three judge District Court had been fully performed
before the motion for assessment of damages was filed.
For § 266 of the Judicial Code provides for a hearing
by three judges, instead of one district judge, only in
connection with adjudication of a very narrow type of
controversy-applications for temporary and permanent
injunctions restraining state officials from enforcing state
laws or orders made pursuant thereto upon the ground
that the state statutes are repugnant to the Federal
Constitution.4 The motion for damages raised questions
not within the statutory purpose for which the two additional judges had been called. Those questions were
therefore for the consideration of the District Court in
the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction, and the three
judge requirement of § 266 had no application. 5
'See Phillips v. United States, 312 U. S. 246; Oklahoma Gas &
Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386; Ex parte
Public National Bank, 278 U. S. 101, 104.
'A District Court composed of three judges under § 266 of qoiurse
has jurisdiction to detergine every question involved in the litigation
pertaining to the prayer for an injunction, in order that a single
lawsuit may afford final and authoritative decision of the controversy between the parties. Railroad Commission V. Pacific Gas &
301335°--41--.40

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

But the fact that it was mistakenly assumed that the
motion should be passed upon by the district judge in
association with the two judges previously called did not
of itself invalidate the District Court's judgment dismissing the motion. Though that judgment of dismissal was
not appealable directly to this court under § 266, even
though participated in by three judges,' it was reviewable
by the Circiit Court of Appeals, and since it has been so
reviewed, the-issues presented are properly before us.
Second. The ground assigned by the District Court for
denying the motiQn to assess damages was that by its
previous dismissal of petitionerg' counterclaim it had already ruled upon and finally determined the questions
raised by the motion. The original counterclaim, however, was dismissed without a hearing on the merits.
No evidence was heard. It was dismissed, as the court
said at the time, because of "serious doubt as to the right
of the defendants to maintain such counterclaim," and
in the ,order of dismissal it was specified that the action
taken was "without prejudice to the right of the defendants . . . to maintain an independent action or
-- ait
thereon. ' We need not here point out the procedural
reasons which might have caused the "serious doubt"
which prompted the court to dismiss the counterclaim.
For even assuming that the court properly dismissed the
counterclaim without a hearing on the merits, it does
not follow that its dismissal was a final adjudication
of either the procedural or the substantive right of petitioners to invoke the court's jurisdiction by a motion
to assess damages. Some of the damages asserted in the
Electric Co., 302 U. S. 388, 391; Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S.
378, 393-394.
See, e..
g., Public Service Commission v. Columbia Terminals Co.,
309 U. S. 620; Public Service Commission v. Brashear Freight Lines,
306 U. S. 204, 207. Cf. Eichholz v. Public Service Commission, 306

U. S. 268.

COMMISSION v: BRASHEAR LINES.
621

627,

Opinion'of the Court.

motin--such as the costs of the litigation-were not
asserted in the counterclaim, and such damages could not
well have been-determined until after final adjudication
of the issues which caused the three judge court to be
invoked. The record shows that action on the counterclairp was deferred pending full hearing on the constitutionality of the Missouri statute under attack. This
postponement might well be attributed to a belief on
the-part of the court that the questions raised by the
counterclaim were matters which could be better determined after final determination of the issues presented
by the original bill for injunction. The judgment dismissing the motion for assessment of damages cannot be
supported upon the ground that the issues raised by it
had been adjudicated in the prior dismissal of the counterclaim.
Third. Respondents also seek to support the court's
judgment upon the ground that the enjoined state officials and agencies are not the proper parties to invoke
the court's action for assessment of damages brought
about by the injunction. This claim cannot be sustained. The argument on which it rests is that the
State Treasurer, not the Public Service Commission, is
given statutory power to collect the fees that are in part
the basis of the motion to assess damages. But petitioners insist that the Public Service Commission actually collects the fees under customs and rules of long
standing, and urges that statutory authority exists for
such action by the Commission. But whoever has the
statutory authority to collect fees, it is not denied that
the Missouri Attorney General, one of the enjoined and
petitioning officials, is given exclusive authority to bring
suit in the name of and on behalf of the state.7 And if
"Mo.
§ 12901.)

Rev. Stats. (1929)

§ 11276.

(Mo.

Rev. Stats. (1939)

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.,

312 U. S.

upon a hearing damages are shown to have been suffered
within the terms and conditions of the injunction bonds,
the district court sitting in equity has ample power to
see that whatever sums are recovered go to the proper
state officials. In addition to this, respondents are in
a poor position to argue that petitioners are not proper
parties, for one of the grounds upon which the respondents claimed an injunction against these particular petitioners was that it was they who were threatening to
bring actions against respondents to collect the very fees
which are now a part of the present motion for assessment of damages. At the instance of the operators, these
state officials were for a period of fifteen months deprived
of all opportunity to collect any fees except those deposited with the trustees pursuant to the terms of the restraining order. Petitioners' motion alleges that many
operators failed to comply with the conditions imposed
by the order, and that the state has been deprived of
fees that it would have collected but for the injunction.
The respondents did not bring their suit nor press their
claim upon the assumption that these officials could not
and would not protect the interest of the state. On the
contrary, they acted upon a directly opposite premise
and executed bonds running to the enjoined officials in
which they agreed to pay the damages suffered. It is
obvious, and was obvious from the beginning, that the
main damages would be suffered by the State of Missouri and not by these petitioners as individuals. It
was to protect the state through its officials that the bonds
were required. In making this requirement the court
acted in harmony with the governing principle "that it
is the duty of a court of equity granting injunctive relief
to do so upon conditions that will protect all-including
the public-whose interests the injunction may affect."
Inland Steel Co. v. United States, 306 U. S. 153, 157.
Petitioners were proper parties to invoke the court's

COMMISSION v. BRASHEAR LINES.
621

629

Opinion of the Court.

protection of the state's interest, and we have no doubt
but that the court can mould any decree it renders so
as to safeguard the rights of all interested parties.
Fourth. There yet remains the basis upon which the
court below affirmed the District Court's refusal to assess
damages-that the jurisdiction to exercise this power
is discretionary, and that refusal to exercise the power
was not shown to be erroneous. In considering this
question, it is of no importance that dealing with petitioners' motion for assessment of damages would involve
long and complicated hearings on issues inappropriate
for decision by a three judge court. For as we have
pointed out, the issues were appropriate for decision by
the single judge of the district. There can be no question of that judge's right to deal with issues such as
those here presented. Under long settled equity practice, courts of chancery have discretionary power to assess
damages sustained by parties who have been injured
because of an injunctive restraint ultimately determined
to have been improperly granted. Russell v. Farley, 105
U. S.433, 444 et seq.; Pease v. Rathbun-JonesEngineering
Co., 243 U. S.273, 279. This power is, as stated, discretionary; there are of course cases where the Chancellor
might properly conclude that parties should be remitted
to an action at law. But this is not one -of those cases.
If petitioners had to bring actions at law, each of the
seventy-six respondents might have to be made a defendant in a separate action. There is a controversy between
the parties as to whether or not all of these respondents
could be sued or served in the State of Missouri; to be
compelled to sue some of them elsewhere would work
a hardship on the state. In addition to this, part of
the damages for which petitioners seek recovery is made
up of various items of cost and expense incurred in the
litigation; if petitioners succeed on the merits, there
might conceivably be serious problems raised by the

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

seventy-six respondents as to the portion of damages
fairly attributable to each-a problem peculiarly appropriate to equity, and preeminently adapted to settlement
by a single court. Here, respondents joined themselves
together in order jointly to restrain petitioners; they
executed joint bonds; and they invoked the action of
equity which has traditionally exerted its power not
merely to assess damages caused by improvident injunctions but also to prevent the harmful consequences of
an unnecessary multiplicity of causes of action. The
circumstances of this case call so strongly for an assessment by equity that we think the court erred in dismissing the motion for assessment of damages. And it is
especially fitting that equity exert its full strength in
order to protect from loss a state which has been injured
by reason of a suspension of enforcement of state laws
imposed by equity itself.8 The judgment of the court
below is reversed and the cause is remanded for proceedings before a single district judge in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

MOORE v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 550. Argued March 12, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

1. A ruling by the state supreme court made on review of the first
trial of an action on contract and determining the applicable state
statute of limitations must be followed'by the federal courts on a
second trial, after removal, in the absence of any intervening change
by legislation or by ruling of the state supreme court. P. 633.
Cf. United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, 197; Inland Steel Co.
v. United States, 306 U. S. 153, 158; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 145-146.

