426

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U.S.

lieves to be materially misleading because of his failure
to state qualifying matter is a fraudulent misrepresentation."
Such a statement of a half truth is as much a misrdpresentation as if the facts stated were untrue. The court's
charge was in conformity to Iowa law as disclosed by its
judicial opinions. See Howard v. McMillen, 101 Iowa
453; 70 N. W. 623; Noble v. Renner, 177 Iowa 509; 159
N. W. 214; Foreman v. Dugan, 205 Iowa 929; 218 N. W.
912. No argument made or authority cited here persuades us that the Supreme Court of Iowa would, upon
the evidence presented, apply any different rule. See
Wichita Royalty Co. v. City National Bank, 306 U. S.
103, 107; cf. West v. American Telephone & Telegraph
Co., 311 U. S.223.
Respondent has raised numerous other questions which
were not considered by the court below. This cause will
therefore be reversed and remanded to the Court of Appeals for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. EXPRESS PUBLISHING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 442.

Argued February 14, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. A respondent employer can not attack, as without support in the
evidence, findings of the National Labor Relations Board which
were the basis of its order and of a judgment sustaining it which
the employer has not sought to review. P. 431.
2. Where' an employer is found to have refused to bargain collectively
in violation of § 8 (5) of the National Labor Relations Act, the
Board's order may properly- require him to cease and desist from

LABOR BOARD v. EXPRESS PUB. CO.
426

427

Counsel for Parties.

such refusal in addition to an affirmative requirement that he
bargain with his employees' representatives. P. 432.
3. An order of the National Labor Relations Board which, when
judicially confirmed, the courts may be called on to enforce by
contempt proceedings, must, like the injunction order of a court,
state with reasonable specificity the acts which the respondent is
to do or refrain from doing. P. 433.
4. The authority conferred on the Board to restrain an unfair labor
practice in which the employer is found to have been engaged,
does not support an order. purporting to restrain him from other
unfair labor practices in which he is not found to have been engaged and which are unrelated to the proven unfair labor practice.
P. 433.
5. The National Labor Relations Act does not give the Board an
authority, which courts can not rightly exercise, to enjoin violations of all the provisions of the statute merely because the
violation of one has been found. To justify an order restraining
other violations it must appear that they bear some resemblance
to that which the employer has committed, or that danger of
their commission- in the future is to be anticipated from the
course of his conduct in the past. P. 437.
6. The order of the Board directing the employer to post notices
informing its employees that it will "cease and desist" from refusing
to bargain with the authorized representatives of its employees,
is. modified so as to provide that the posted notices shall state
that the employer "will not engage. :in conduct from which it is
ordered to cease and desist." P. 438.
11 F. 2d 588, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 638, to review a judgment enforcing an order of the National Labor Relations Board, but
in part only and with modification.

Mr. Laurence A. Knapp, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle and Messrs. Richard H. Demuth, Robert B. Watts,
and Mortimer B. Wolf were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Leroy G. Denman for respondent.
Messrs. Arthur R. Pettit and Roland Obenchain filed
a brief on behalf of the Singer Manufacturing Co., as
amicus curiae, in support of respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE STON,
-Court.

312 U. S.

delivered. the opinion of the

The National Labor Relations Board ordered respondent affirmatively to bargain collectively with the San
Antonio Newspaper Guild, the authorized representative
of respondent's employees. In addition it ordered respondent, (1). to "cease and desist" from refusing to bargain collectively with the Guild; (2) to "cease and desist"
from "interfering with; restraining or coercing its employees in the exercise of their rights to self-organization," and other rights guaranteed by § 7 of the National
LaborRelations Act, 49 Stat. 449; 29 U. S. C. Supp. V,
§ 151, et seq.; (3) to post notices stating, among other
things, that respondent will "cease and desist as aforesaid!', and will bargain collectively with the organized
representative of its employees. On the record before
us the question for our decision is whether the provisions
of the order which we have enumerated are supported by
the Board's finding that the respondent had refused to
bargain collectively with the authorized representative of
its employees, and had interfered with such bargaining
negotiation, and had thereby interfered with the exercise
of the-rights guaranteed by § 7 of the Act..
The Board issued its complaint charging respondent,
a publisher of a newspaper, with refusal to bargain collectively with the Guild as the authorized representative
of the, employees in respondent's editorial department,
and that by such refusal and by statements made by respondent at a meeting of those employees it "did interfere with, restrain and coerce" its employees in the exercise of the rights guaranteed by § 7 of the Act 1 and did
'The statements alleged to have been made by officers or agents
of respondent were "Existing independent employment relations may
be continued by the individual employees or by employees as a
group." "No one can compel you to join any organization." And
referring to respondent's treatment of its employees, it was alleged

LABOR BOARD v. EXPRESS PUB. CO.
426

429

Opinion of the Court.

engage in unfair labor practices defined by §§ 8 (1) and
8 (5). The usual proceedings and hearings before the
Board resulted in fin'dings by the Board to the effect that
although respondent had throughout recognized the organization of respondent's editorial room employees and
the Guild as their representative, and had met with the
Guild representatives whenever requested for the purpose
of discussing the employees' demands, it nevertheless had
persistently refused to discuss in detail the proposals of
the Guild, to make any counter proposals or to enter into
any agreement with it, and had not negotiated in good
faith in a genuine effort to compose the differences between employer and employees.
The Board found that respondent had refused to bargain as required by § 8 (5) of the Act. It found that
respondent had, made the statements charged in the complaint at a meeting of its employees and that these statements were an "interference with the Guild's efforts to
negotiate." Treating respondent's action in refusing to
bargain and in interfering with the bargaining negotiations as an infringement of all the rights guaranteed to
the employees by the Act, it found broadly, in the words
of the statute, a violation of § 8 (1) which declares that
it is an unfair labor practice for the employer "to interfere with, restrain or coerce employees in the exercise
of the rights guaranteed in section 7." Section 7 provides: "Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own
choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the
purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or
protection."
that respondent's officer stated: "Each of you know we were not
forced to do this by any labor organization and no labor organization
can force us to do these things."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

From all this the Board concluded that the "appropriate remedy" was an order directing respondent "upon
request, to bargain collectively with the- ..
Guild"
as the "exclusive representative" of respondent's editorial
room employees and "if understandings are reached, to
embody such understandings in a signed agreement, if
requested to do so by the Guild." Having provided the
recommended remedy by the provisions of its order directing the respondent to bargain and to cease and desist
from refusing to bargain the Board went further and ordered broadly that respondent should in effect refrain
from violating the Act in any manner whatsoever. This
it did by paragraph 1 (b) of the order which directed
respondent to cease and desist from
"In any manner interfering with, restraining, or coercing its employees in the exercise of their rights to selforganization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations,
to bargain collectively through representatives of their
own choosing, and to engage' in concerted activities for
the. purposes of collective bargaining or other mutual
aid and protection, as guaranteed in Section 7 of the
Act."
It is this and the provisions of the order other than that
part of it directing respondent to bargain which are the
subjects of the present controversy.
Upon petition of the Board to enforce the order, the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit struck from it all
the provisions except that which directed respondent to
bargain with ,the Guild on request, and to embody any
understanding in a signed agreement. For so much of
the order as directed the posting of notices the court substituted a requirement that respondent notify the Guild
of its willingness to comply with the order as modified
and to notify a specified agent of the Board what steps
respondent had taken to comply with the order: 111 F.
2d 588. We granted certiorari,-311 U. S. 638, the ques-

LABOR BOARD v. EXPRESS PUB. CO.
426

Opinion of the Court.

tions raised being of importance in the administration of
the National Labor Relations Act.
Although respondent has not sought certiorari it seeks
to retain such advantages as it may have gained from
the modification of the Board's order below, by arguing
broadly that the Board's finding of respondent's refusal
to bargain is without support in the evidence, which it
is said shows only that respondent refused to yield to the
Guild demands as it was free to do. But in the absence
of a cross-petition for certiorari by respondent that question is not open here. Without the findings relating to
respondent's refusal to bargain there was no basis for
any order by the Board and we think that the purpose
and effect of the judgment sustaining so much of the
Board's order as directed that respondent bargain with
the Guild was to sustain the findings on which it was
based. This appears both from the opinion of the Court
of Appeals, the purport of which is that respondent in its
negotiations with the Guild had not acted in good faith
and so had failed to bargain as the statute requires, and
also from the terms of the judgment modifying the
Board's order. The judgment affirming the Board's order as modified retained, as the foundation of the judgment, the recital contained in the Board's original order
that it was made upon the basis of all the Board's findings. In this state of the record our review is limited
to the sufficiency of the Board's findings to support the
order.
We conclude also that it is not open to respondent
to challenge the judgment below, as it attempts to do,
on the ground that the Board's complaint in charging
a failure to bargain did not sufficiently inform respondent of the contention that it had failed to bargain in
good faith. This is the case both because 'respondent
has sought no review of the judgment below and because it sufficiently appears from the record that in the

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

course of the hearings before the Board respondent was
fully advised of the nature of the Board's contention.
But it is the Board which has brought the judgment
below here for review and on it rests the burden of showing in what respects the judgment is erroneous. Cf.
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S. 441.
To sustain that burden the Board insists that all the
provisions of its order were lawfully made and that it
is entitled to have the order enforced in its entirety.
Section 10 (c) of the Act provides that if the Board
''upon all the testimony taken" "shall be of the opinion
that any person named in the complaint has engaged
in. or is engaging in any such unfair labor practice then
the Board shall state its findings of fact and shall issue
and cause to be served on such person an order requiring such person to cease and desist from such unfair
labor practice, and to take such affirmative action . . .
as will effectuate the policies of this Act." The Board,
having found in this case that respondent had refused
to bargain, that part of its order directing, respondent
to "cease and desist from refusing to bargain collectively"
with the Guild, was in exact compliance with the statute and should have been left undisturbed by the judgment below.
A question of a different nature is presented by paragraph 1 (b) of the order, by which the, Board, on the
basis of respondent's action in refusing to bargain and
its statements interfering with the bargaining negotiations, has directed respondent not to violate "in any
manner" the duties imposed on the employer by the
statute. Petitioner argues that since respondent's refusal to bargain, which is a violation of § 8 (5), is also
a violation of § 8 (1), which in terms incorporates by
reference all the rights enumerated in § 7, the Board is
not only free to restrain violations like those which
respondent has committed, but any other unfair labor

LABOR BOARD v. EXPRESS PUB. CO.
426

433

Opinion of the Court.

practices of any kind which likewise infringe any of the
rights enumerated in § 7, however unrelated those practices may be to the acts of respondent which alone
emerged in course of the hearing- and which the Board
has found.
But we think it does not follow that, because the act
of respondent which the Board has found to be an unfair
labor practice defined by § 8(5) is also a technical violation of § 8(1), the Board, in the circumstances of this
case, is justified in making a blanket order restraining the
employer from committing any act in violation of the
statute, however unrelated it may be to those charged
and found, or that courts are required for the indefinite
future to give effect in contempt proceedings to an order
of such breadth.
We cannot find such authority or requirement in the
carefully chosen language of § 10(c), which directs the
Board to state its findings of fact showing the unfair
labor practice charged and to order the person accused
to "cease and desist from such unfair labor practice," or
in § 10(e) of the Act Which authorizes the court on application of the Board to enter a "decree enforcing, modifying, and enforcing as so modified, or setting aside in
whole or in part the order of the Board." It is obvious
that the order of the Board, which, when judicially
confirmed, the courts may be called on to enforce by
contempt proceedings, must, like the injunction order
of a court, state with reasonable specificity the acts which
the respondent is to do or refrain from doing. It would
seem equally clear that the authority conferred on the
Board to restrain the practice which it has found the
employer to have committed is not an authority to restrain generally all other unlawful p-.ctices which it
has neither found to have been pursued nor persuasively
to be related to the proven unlawful conduct.
301335°-41-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Congress has itself afforded a guide pointing to the
appropriate limits of the order which the Board is to
make in restraining unfair labor practices. By its definition and classification of unfair labor practices in the
statute it has shown that they are not always so similar
or related that the commission of one necessarily merits
or rightly admits of an order restraining all. Here the
whole controversy between respondent and the Guild was
with respect to the Guild's request to bargain aiid respondent's attempt to influence the negotiations and its
ultimate refusal to enter into an agreement from all of
which the Board inferred the refusal to bargain in good
faith. In all other respects respondent has consistently
left the Guild and its activities undisturbed. The Board
made no finding and there is nothing in the record to
suggest that the failure of the bargaining negotiations
and all that attended them gave any indication that in
the future respondent would engage in all or any of the
numerous other unfair labor practices defined by the Act.
Refusal to bargain, defined as an unfair labor practice
by § 8 (5), may be, as we think it was here, wholly unrelated to the domination of a labor union or the interference with its formation or administration or financial
or other support to it, all of which are defined as unfair
labor practices by § 8 (2). Refusal to bargain may be,
as we think it was here, wholly unrelated to "discrimination in regard to hire or tenure of employment or any
term or condition of employment to encourage or
discourage membership in any labor organization," all
of which are unfair labor practices as defined by § 8 (3).
Here the Board made no finding based either on the
specific circumstances disclosed by the record or on its
own expert judgment of their relation to the policy embodied in § 7, or as to any relationship or probable relationship of respondent's refusal to bargain and the
other types of unfair practices some of which are enumer-

LABOR BOARD v. EXPRESS PUB. CO.
426

435

Opinion of the Court.

ated in § 8. Yet, if the contention which it makes is to
be sustained, subsequent violations of § 8 (2) and (3),
which are also violations of § 8 (1), may be the subject
of a contempt order merely because respondent by the
refusal to bargain has violated § 8 (5) which is similarly
a violation of § 8 (1).
In view of the authority given to the Board by § 10
(c), carefully restricted to the restraint of such unfair
labor practices as the Board has found the employer to
have committed, and of the broad language of § 10 (e)
authorizing the courts to modify the order of the Board
wholly or in part, we can hardly suppose that Congress
intended that the Board should make or the court should
enforce orders which could not appropriately be made in
judicial* proceedings. This is the more so because § 10
(a), which authorizes the Board "as hereinafter provided, to prevent any person from-engaging in any unfair labor practice," specifically directs that "This power
shall be exclusive, and shall not be affected by any other
means of adjustment or prevention that has been or may
be established by agreement, code, law, or otherwise.".
In the light of these provisions we think that Congress
did not contemplate that the courts should, by contempt
proceedings, try alleged violations of the National Labor
Relations Act not in controversy and not found by the
Board and which, are not similar or fairly related to the
unfair labor practice which the Board has found.
A federal court has broad power to restrain acts which
are of the same type or class as unlawful acts which the
court has found to have been committed or whose commission in the future, unless enjoined, may fairly be anticipated from the defendant's conduct in the past. But
the mere fact that a court has found that a defendant
has committed an act in violation of a statute does not
justify an injunction'broadly to obey the statute and
thus subject the defendant to contempt proceedings if

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

he shall at any time in the future commit some new violation unlike and unrelated to that with which he was
originally charged. This Court will strike from an injunction decree restraints upon the commission of unlawful acts which are thus dissociated from those which
a defendant has committed. Swift & Co. v. United
States, i96 U. S. 375; New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 200 U. S. 361, 404, and
see under the National Labor Relations Act, National
Labor Relations Board v. Swift & Co., 108 F. 2d 988.
It is a salutary principle that when one has been
found to have committed acts in violation of a law
he may be restrained from committing other related unlawful acts. But we think that, without sacrifice of that
principle, the National Labor Relations Act does not
contemplate that an employer who has unlawfully refused to bargain with his employees shall for the indefinite future, conduct his labor relations at the peril of
a summons for contempt on the Board's allegation, for
example, that he has discriminated against a labor union
in the discharge of an employee, or because his supervisory employees have advised other employees not to
join a union. See e. g., H. J. Heinz Co. v. National
LaborRelations Board, 311 U. S. 514.
Having found the acts which constitute the unfair
labor practice the Board is free to restrain the practice
and other like or related unlawful acts. But as the
Court has held in the case of the Federal Trade Commission, see Federal Trade Comm'n v. Beech-Nut Co.,
supra., 455, an order not so related should be appropriately restricted on review. The breadth of the order,
like the injunction of a court, must depend upon the
circumstances of each case, the purpose being to prevent
violations, the threat of which in the future is indicated
because of their similarity or relation to those unlawful
acts which the Board has found to have been committed

LABOR BOARD v. EXPRESS PUB. CO.
426

437

Opinion of the Court.

by the emijloyer in the past. See United States v. Trans-,
Missouri FreightAssn., 166 U. S. 290, 308, 309; Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 77; Texas & New
Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Railway Clerks, 281
U. S. 548; Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293;
Virginian Ry. Co. v. System FederationNo. 40, 300 U. S.
515, 541, 543, 544. We hold only that the National
Labor Relations Act does not give the Board an authority, which courts cannot rightly exercise, to enjoin violations of all the provisions of the statute merely because
the violation of one has been found. To justify an order
restraining other violations it must appear that they bear
some resemblance to that which the employer has committed or that danger of their commission in the future
is to be anticipated from the course of his conduct in
the past. That justification is lacking here. To require
it is no more onerous or embarrassing to the Board than
to a court. And since we are in a field where subtleties
of conduct may play no small part, it is appropriate to
add that an order of the Board, like the injunction of a
court, is not to be evaded by indirections or formal
observances which in fact defy it. After an order to
bargain collectively in good faith, for example, discriminatory discharge of union members may so affect the
bargaining process as to establish a violation of the
order.
The Board places strong reliance on National Labor
Relations Board v. FansteelMetallurgical Corp., 306 U. S.
240, and on Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood
of Railway Clerks, supra, 555, 567, 568, 571, and Virginian Ry. Co. v. System FederationNo. 40, supra, 543,
544. In those cases the cease and desist order and the injunctions were substantially like paragraph 1(b) of the
Board's order in the present case. But in them the unfair labor practices did not appear to be isolated acts in
violation of the right of self-organization, like the refusal

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

to bargain here, but the record disclosed persistent attempts by varying methods to interfere with the right
of self-organization in circumstances from which the
Board or the court found or could have found the threat
of continuing and varying efforts to attain the same end
inthe future.
An appropriate order in the circumstances of the present case would go no further than to restrain respondent
from any refusal to bargain and from any other acts in
any manner interfering with the Guild's efforts to negotiate. So far as respondent's past conduct may be
thought to have had any effect on the rights guaranteed
by § 7, such consequences would be effectively prevented
by the prohibition of such an order without drawing it
so broadly as to forbid all other unrelated unfair labor
practices.
Only a word need be said of that part of the Board's
order requiring the posting of notices. We have often
held that the posting of notices advising the employees
of the Board's order and announcing the readiness of the
employer to obey it is within the authority conferred on
the Board by § 10(c) of the Act "to take such affirmative
action . . . as will effectuate the policies" of the Act. See
National Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, 268; H. J. Heinz Co. v.
National Labor Relations Board, supra.
But respondent argues that the authority of the Board
does not extend to the requirement, such as was made
in this case, that the employer confess violation of the
Act by a published annouricement that he will "cease and
desist" from violating it. See, National Labor Relations
Board v. Abell Co., 97 F. 2d 951; Burlington Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 104 F. 2d 736; Swift & Co.
v. National Labor Relations Board, 106 F. 2d 87; Art
Metals Construction Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 110 F, 2d 148, 151, 152; Hartsell Mills Co. v. Na-

LABOR BOARD v. EXPRESS PUB. CO.
426

439

Opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

tional Labor Relations Board, 111 F. 2d 291, 293. Since
the Board has changed its practice and now provides in
all orders that the employers' notices shall state "that he
will not engage in the conduct from which he is ordered
to cease and desist" it consents that the present order be
modified accordingly.
What we have said requires a reversal of the judgment below and the reestablishment of the Board's order
with the following exceptions:
Paragraph 1 (b) of the order will be modified so as to
require only that respondent shall cease and desist from
"In any manner interfering with the efforts of the Guild
to bargain collectively with Express Publishing Company,
San Antonio, Texas."
Paragraph 2 (b) of the order will be modified by striking from it the words "will cease and desist as aforesaid",
and substituting for them the words "will not engage in the
conduct from which it is ordered to cease and desist as
aforesaid."
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS:

I think the cease and desist order should be enforced
in full.
Respondent did not object in its answer to the Board's
petition before the Circuit Court of Appeals to that portion of the Board's order which the Court now modifies.
So far as the briefs disclose it did not make any such
objection in the Circuit Court of Appeals. Nor did respondent question the propriety of that provision of the
order or challenge the power of the Board to make it
either in its brief or in its oral argument here. Any controversy on that issue before this Court is therefore not
attributable to respondent. For on the record before us

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of DouGLAs, J.

312 U. S.

it must be assumed that respondent wholly acquiesces
in that phase of the Board's action. In that posture of
the case, it is plain this Court will not customarily raise
sua sponte objections which respondent did not choose
to make. We are, of course, asked to enforce an order
of the Board. And I suppose we might refuse to enforce
provisions of 'such an order which are patently ultra
vires, even though the other party raises no objection
but acquiesces in them. But, in my view, this provision
of the order is not beyond the power of the Board.
The order as modified restrains respondent from interfering in any manner "with the efforts of the Guild to
bargain collectively" with it. But respondent is not restrained from interfering with the employees in the exercise of their rights (a) to self-organization, (b) to form,
join, or assist labor organizations, or (c) to engage in
concerted activities for the purposes of collective bargaining or other mutual aid and protection. These deletions represent the lss of substantial sanctions-sanctions which the expert administrative agency may well
have concluded are basic and essential for protection of
the right which this very union has won.
Take the case where an employer is playing ducks and
drakes with the National Labor Relations Act. He pays
mere lip service to the requirements of the Act while
intent on blocking in his plant any effective union action.
If that is a faithful representation of his attitude, the
mandate of the Act might be wholly frustrated or its enforcement needlessly delayed were the Board merely to
order him to cease and desist from interfering "with the
efforts" of the union "to bargain, collectively." That,
without more, might well be wholly ineffective, or so the
Board in its discretion might conclude. In fact, it might
even be an open invitation to an employer intent on evasion of the spirit and letter of the Act to resort to devious
routes to the same end. Employees are dropped-per-

LABOR BOARD v. EXPRESS PUB. CO.
426

.441

Opinion of DouGmAs, J.

haps the leaders of the union; labor spies are employed;
a company union is sponsored and financed; new -employees are selected who promise not to join the outside
union. The purpose is to thwart any effective action by
that union. Such obstructive tactics could go on apace
and yet no "efforts" of the union "to bargain collectively"
need be denied. The employer could continue the socalled negotiations with the union, perhaps reach at least
a tentative agreement with it, and yet in a myriad of
ways undermine it if the breadth of the cease and desist
order were delimited.
Perhaps this is to conjure up'remote and hypothetical
situations. Pefhaps that is not this case.1 But I think
it is important to remind that we do not sit as an administrativ.e agency with discretion to adjust the remedies
accorded by the Act to what we think are the needs of
particular cases, with power to write or rewrite administrative orders in light of what we think are the exigencies
of specific situations, with the duty to pass on the wisdom
of admini trative policies. Congress has invested the
Board, no, us, with discretion to choose and select the
remedies necessary or appropriate for the evil at hand.
The Board concluded (so we must presume) that its
order directing respondent to bargain collectively with
the Guild need be buttressed by broad protective provisions good against any and all methods of evasion.
Formal recitals could hardly make that plainer than
it is.2 And clearly those provisions are no broader than
'It should, however, be noted that the Board concluded that "the
respondent had no intention of negotiating in good faith with the
Guild nor of entering into a collective bargaining agreement with it."
And the Circuit Court of Appeals observed, ".

.

. we think there

was evidence to support the finding of the Board that respondent had
determined in advance never to agree to anything."
'In this connection it should be observed that the Board found that
respondent had "interfered with, restrained, and coerced its employees in the exercise of the rights guaranteed in Section 7 of the
Act" by reading to them a statement which "presented a distorted con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of

DOUGLAS, J.

312 U. S.

the wide reaches of the controversy disclosed in this
record.
Whether the remedy chosen by the Board was reasonably necessary in this case is not for us to determine.
Nor is it for us to say what language is adequate to
safeguard the labor rights which are in issue. To cut
down the language of this order not only substitutes
our judgment for that of the Board; it will also result
in the creation of a host of uncertainties. The original
order makes clear that any attempted evasion, no matter
how devious, is banned. As modified the order clearly
subtracts from those sanctions. But the precise extent
of its dilution remains uncertain. The Board may, of
course, in case of future violations institute new administrative proceedings. Yet the method here chosen for
settlement of this labor controversy does not promise
peace. It invites a prolongation of the dispute which
should be deemed to have been settled, with the employer's acquiescence, once and for all. That practical
aspect of the matter is of great importance on the merits;
and it also emphasizes the seriousness of our intrusion
into the administrative domain. See Note (1940) 53
HarV. L. Rev. 472.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE REED join in this

opinion.
cept" of the employees' rights under the Act. The Circuit Court
of Appeals set aside that finding. While the Board did not raise
that issue in its petition for certiorari, that episode is nevertheless
relevant to the scope of the cease and desist order. If it be assumed,
as does the majority, that such a broad order must be founded at
least on some evidence that other related, unlawful acts "may fairly
be anticipated from the defendant's conduct in the past," that episode is of significance. For though it might not of itself support an
additional finding of a separate violation of § 8, it certainly is some
evidence for the exercise of the Board's expert judgment that the
refusal to bargain did not have an improbable relationship to other
likely obstructive tactics of a related order.

