NELSON v. MONTGOMERY WARD.
Opinion of the Court.

NELSON, CHAIRMAN OF THE STATE TAX COMMISSION, ET AL. v. MONTGOMERY WARD & CO.,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 256.

Argued January 13, 14, 1941.-Decided February 17, 1941.

1. A foreign corporation which maintained retail stores in Iowa, and
also solicited mail orders in that State by local advertising, may
constitutionally be required to collect the tax imposed by the Iowa
Use Tax Act, in respect of mail orders sent by Iowa purchasers
to out-of-state branches of the corporation and filled by direct
shipment by mail or common carrier from such branchqs to the
purchasers. Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., ante, p. 359. P. 375.
2. The effect of admitted facts is a question of law. P. 376.
228 Iowa 1301; 292 N. W. 142, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S.630, to review the affirmance by

the state supreme court of a decree enjoining the enforcement against respondent of provisions of the Iowa
Use Tax Act as applied to mail order sales.
Mr. John E. Mulroney, Assistant Attorney General of
Iowa, with whom Mr. John M. Rankin, Attorney General, was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Stuart S. Ball, with whom Messrs. John A. Barr,
Maxwell A. O'Brien, and Harold W. Bancroft were on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The issue in this case is identical with that in Nelson
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., ante, p. 359. Respondent is an
Illinois corporation authorized to do business in Iowa.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Respondent operates retail stores and mail order houses
throughout the United States. It has 29 retail stores
and several order offices in Iowa. It collects the Iowa
tax on sales made at the retail stores and on sales handled
by those order offices. But it has refused to collect the
tax 2 on orders sent directly from Iowa customers to its
out of state mail order houses and filled by direct shipments through the mails or a common carrier to the purchasers in Iowa. Respondent, in seeking an affirmance
of the judgment of the Iowa Supreme Court ' (228 Ia.
1301; 292 N. W. 142) which held that the Iowa Use
'The investment in these stores is over $900,000. The approximate sales by these stores in 1937 was $7,716,000.
'In the catalogues sent into Iowa there was the following notice:
"To our Iowa Customers:
We beheve that certain of the provisi6ns of the Iowa Use Tax law
as applied to our business, are unconstitutional. Therefore we are
not collecting or reporting the Use Tax on mail orders sent by Iowa
customers direct to any of our mail order houses.
Until you hear from us to the contrary, mail in your orders just
as you have in the past.
MONTGOMERY WARD & Co."

It was testified that the purpose of this notice was not to intimate
to Iowa purchasers that by mailing their orders to mail order houses
outside the state they could secure a two per cent differential over
purchases made in th, state.
'One question, not raised by the petition for certiorari, related to
the duty of respondent to collect the use tax on sales made in retail
stores located near, but outside, the boundaries of Iowa, where the
purchaser was a resident of Iowa and purchased the property for use
in Iowa. The Supreme Court of Iowa, one judge dissenting, held
that the Use Tax Act as applied to these transactions was unconstitutional. Chief Justice Hamilton, who dissented from the judgment
as respects the mail orders, concurred insofar as sales from the out of
state retail stores were concerned, saying that respondent "has no
feasible way of knowing or ascertaining where the customer lives or
where he is going to make use of the. merchandise purchased" and
that to impose the burden of tax collection on it would be to give it
"an almost impossible task,"

NELSON v. MONTGOMERY WARD.
373-

Opinion of the Court.

Tax as applied to these mail orders is unconstitutional.
makes substantially the same arguments5 as were advanced in Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., supra. Distribution of catalogues in Iowa apparently involves no
act of respondent or its agents within the state. There
was testimony that no employee of the mail order houses
lives in Iowa; that there are no- acts of respondent in
Iowa in regard to any of the orders sent to the out of
state mail order houses; and that respondent has no
machinery for collecting sums due from Iowa customers
by individuals within the state, it not being the practice
of respondent to refer its delinquent mail order accounts.
to its retail stores in Iowa for collection. Those facts
are immaterial. Some of respondent's employees are in
Iowa representing it in the course of business which it is
conducting pursuant to its permit to do business in that
state. The fact that other of its employees who work
in the mail order houses and handle the mail orders here
involved are not in Iowa is wholly irrelevant. It does
not permit respondent to escape the burden which Iowa
has exacted as a price of enjoying the full benefits flowing
from its aggregate Iowa business. Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., supra.
Respondent's bill also contained allegations that the Use Tax as
applied contravened certain provisions of the Iowa constitution.
Those issues, however, were not passed on by the Iowa Supreme
Court.
' Its experience with the Illinois sales tax shows that only 75% of
the Illinois customers remit the tax with their orders. Due bills are
sent (except for deficiencies less than two cents) and 58% are not
collected. Based on this experience respondent estimates that out of
$10,000 of use taxes on mail orders from Iowa customers, it would be
able to collect $8,550. If no notices were included in the catalogues
sent into Iowa, then based on its Illinois experience respondent estimates that only 42% of the due bills would be collected. In addition
to these deficits respondent asserts that it would incur a direct cost
ranging from $890 to $1,040 for every $10,000 of tax liability.
4

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

There is a further fact in this record which makes a
reversal of this judgment necessary. It was stipulated
that "advertisements have been caused to be printed by
the retail stores of the petitioner (Montgomery Ward and
Co.) in the State of Iowa, advertising not only retail
merchandise, but the ability to complete service through
the use of the catalog." This stipulation clearly means
that respondent has solicited mail order sales in Iowa.
The fact that that solicitation was done through local
advertisements rather than directly by local agents as in
Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 62, is
immaterial. Nor is it material that the orders were
filled by direct shipments from points outside the state
to purchasers within the state. For that method of delivery also obtained in case of some of the orders involved
in Felt & TarrantMfg. Co. v. Gallagher,supra.
The effect of admitted facts is a question of law.
Swift & Co v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281;
Estate of Sanford v. Commissioner, 308 U. S. 39, 51.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

disposition of this case.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

dissent

for the reasons stated in the dissenting opinion in Nelson
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., ante, p. 366.

