OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

Insurance (2d ed.) pp. 332-333; Speer v. Phoenix Mutual
Life Ins. Co., 36 Hun 322. The fact that the then condition of an insured's health might make him uninsurable
emphasizes the conclusion that the use of that criterion
will result in placing a minimum value upon such a gift.
Reversed.
WOODS, COURT TRUSTEE, v. CITY NATIONAL
BANK AND TRUST CO. -OF CHICAGO ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE cIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. -281 and 282.

Argued January 13, 1941.-Decided
February 3, 1941.

1. Under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, the bankruptcy court
has plenary power to review all fees and expenses in connection with the reorganization from whatever source they may be
payable. Reasonable compensation for services rendered may be
allowed. The claimant has the burden of proving their worth.
P. 267.
2. "Reasonable compensation for services rendered" necessarily implies loyal and disinterested service in the interest of those for
whom the claimant purported to act. P. 268.
3. No compensation should be allowed for services rendered in
connection with a reorganization by a claimant who represented
not only members of the investing public but also other and conflicting interests; and this although no fraud or unfairness is
shown to have resulted from the conflict. P. 268.
4. In corporate reorganizations, protective committees,, as well as
indenture trustees, are fiduciaries. P. 268.
5. Expenditures incurred in connection with the administration of
the estate are not "proper," within the meaning of § 242 of the
Act, and should hot be allowed, where the claimant can not
show that they were made in furtherance of a project exclusively
devoted to the interests of those whom the claimant purported
to represent. On the other hand, those expenditures normally
should be allowed which have clearly benefited the estate.
P. 269.
111 F. 2d 834, reversed.

WOODS v. CITY BANK' CO.
262

263

Opinion of the Court.

. CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 629, to review the reversal of an

order, in a proceeding under, Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, which disallowed the claims of an indenture
trustee, a bondholders' committee, and their counsel, for
services and expenses, and which allowed in part a
counter-claim made by the trustee in bankruptcy. The
latter took two appeals, one by petition to the District
Court, the other by petition to the Circuit Court of Appeals-prior to the ruling in Reconstruction Finance
Corp. v. Prudence Securities Advisory Group, 311
U. S. 579.
Mr. Weightstill Woods for petitioner.
Mr. Vincent O'Brien, with whom Mr. Tracy Wilson
Buckingham was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE, DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The basic question involved in this case concerns the
power of the District Court in proceedings under Ch. X
of the Chandler Act' (52 Stat: 840) to disallow claims
for compensation and reimbursement on the grounds that
the 'claimants were serving dual or conflicting interests.
The claimants, respondents here, are an indenture trustee,
a bondholders' committee, and the committee's counsel.
1 This

reorganization started with foreclosure proceedings in the

Illinois state court and later was transferred to the United States
District Court upon the filing of petitions under § 77B of the Bank-

ruptcy Act. -Pursuant to § 276 (c) (2) of the Chandler Act, the
bankruptcy court made that chapter applicable to the allowance of
these claims. The claims under review cover not only the proceedings under § 77B but also the earlier state court proceedings.
Though some of the allowances here in issue apparently had been
fixed by the state court prior to the transfer of the proceedings to
-bankruptcy, respondents agreed to submit the claims de novo to the

District Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Counsel to the committee was also counsel to the indenture trustee; and its services in the latter capacity were
included in the claim of the indenture trustee. The
' bankruptcy trustee appeared in opposition to the allowance. of these claims, and counterclaimed against the
indenture trustee seeking to surcharge it for various
alleged acts of misconduct and negligence. The indenture trustee answered. There wa a hearing on the
claims and on the counterclaim. The District Court
disallowed the claims "for want of equity".; and allowed
the counterclaim only as a recoupment to extinguish
any claims of respondents. On appeal the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed. 111 F.'2d 834. It held that there
was no conspiracy to defraud, nor substantial evidence
of mismanagement or negligence on the part of respondent-trustee. It thereupon remanded the cause to the
District Court, indicating that the out-of-pocket expenses
should be allowed in full and that the reasonable and
customary charge for services so rendered should govern
the claims for compensatior. We granted the petition
for writs of certibrari 2 in view of the importance in
reorganization proceedings of the power of the District
Court over such allowances.
We are not inclined to question the conclusion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the issue of fraud. We
agree with it that on this record recovery on the counterclaim would not be warranted. But we do not believe
it was justified in disregarding the evidence and findings
of fact as respects respondents' dual or conflicting interests in this reorganization.
The two cases raise the same question. One represents an appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals as of right; the other an appeal with
leave. They were taken prior to our decision in Dickinson Industrial Site v. Cowan, 309 U. S. 382. And see Reconstruction Finance
Corp. v. Prudence Securities Advisory Group, 311 U. S. 579.

WOODS v. CITY BANK CO.
262

Opinion of the Court.

The property. here involved is an apartment hotelGranada Apartments, Inc. A committee was formed by
the respondent-trustee' to represent the first mortgage
bonds in the -reorganization. It was c6mposed of five
members. Two of these were 'officers or employees of
one 'of ihe principal 'underwriters of the bonds.' This
underwriter was heavily interested in the equity.5 So
far as appears, that fact was not disclosed when the committee 'solicited the bondholders.' In any event, the
equity owner is peculiarly ill-suited to represent the mortgagee in these situations because of their historic clash
of interests. See Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products
Co., 308 U. S.106. Furthermore, a rather serious question was raised early in this reorganization concerning
alleged misrepresentations by the underwriters on the sale
of the bonds that the furnishings of the hotel were covered by the mortgage. It turned out that they were not;
and bondholders' money was used to satisfy the lien outstanding against them6 ,Objective scrutiny and full en'Not then the trustee under the indenture.
'A third member was also a distributor of the bonds when they
were publicly offered.
aThis underwriter--Cody Trust Co.-went into receivership in
December, 1933, the Granada bondholders' committee having been
formed in April, 1933. The District Court found that nominees of
Cody Trust Co. operated the property until January, 1934.
The reorganization began with a 'foreclosure proceeding in the
-state court. The indenture trustee, predecessor of respondent- trus'tee, later took possession and employed a 'so-called agent at $50 per
month "to keep Cody Trust Company informed as to the status from
time to time."
'Certain phases'of, the litigation involving this question are revealed in. Thuma v. Granada Hotel Corp., 269 Ill.
App. 484; Wenstrand v. Pick & Co., 38 F. 2d'25; In re GranadaApartments, Inc.,'
104 F. 2d 528.
So far as appears no effort was made in ths reorganization to
assert any claim against the underwriters.

266'

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

forcement of an underwriter's liability requires a com-

mittee freed from that underwriter's, influence.
The committee was closely affiliated with the respondent-trustee, which, as we have noted, caused its forma-.
tion. And respondent-trustee was in turn later appointed as successor trustee under the mortgage on petition of the committee. The committee had as its two
mosf active members officers of the indenture trustee.

It was in substance a part of the indenture trustee's
reorganization division. The indenture trustee was the
committee's depositary; it would receive any fees accruing to the committee. Indenture trustees themselves
have frequently condemned such entanglements with

committees.'

The indenture trustee represents all the

bondholders; the committee those who have given it authorizations--in this case about 50 per cent. Where the

interests of majorities and minorities do not coincide,
the interests of the indenture trustee and the committee
will tend to be antagonistic.'

Beyond that is the fact

'That division had handled over 400 reorganizations, having been
formed to act in connection with defaulted bond issues underwritten
by Chicago Trust Co. and Central Trust Co. of Illinois. Chicago
Trust Co. was one of the underwriters of the Granada bonds.
"Utter, Problems of Trustees Under Defaulted Bond Issues, 56
Trust Companies 653 (1933); Littleton, Administration Problem
Under Corpoiate Trusteeship, id., 335, 338.
'Utter, op. cit. supra note 8, pp. 656-657. That antagonism was
best illustrated in foreclosure reorganizations where the minority was,
not bound to accept new securities but could insist on cash. See
Weiner, Conflicting Functions of the Upset Price in a Corporate
Reorganization, 27 Col. L. Rev. 132. In the instant case the reorganization proceeding was in the state court from June, 1930 when
a receiver under the second mortgage was appointed to May, 1937
when petitions under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act were approved.
For an earlier and unsuccessful attempt to place this company.
under § 77B see Tuttle v. Harris, 297 U. S. 225. Respondentindenture trustee became such in January, 1935. It was in possession from then until May, 1937.

WOODS v. CITY BANK CO.
262

267

'Opinion of the Court.

that an indenture trustee closely affiliated with a committee shares the committee's conflicts of interest..
In this case the indenture trustee was also indenture
trustee for neighboring apartment properties and dominated the committees representing the bonds of those
other companies. Two members-of respondent committee were also members of one of those other committees.
There was no unitary plan of reorganization for these several properties. But there were dealings between them
by their common representatives-dealings attacked by
petitioner as unfair to the instant company and defended
by respondents as fair.
That is not all.
Counsel to the committee was not only counsel to the
indenture trustee in this reorganization; it was also counsel to the indenture trustee and the committees for the
neighboring properties. And respondent-counsel had
acted as general counsel for one of the two principaf underwriters 10 during the fianancing of the property here
involved; and that underwriter's prospectus was under
attack in these proceedings."
Under Ch. X of tlie Chandler Act the bankruptcy court
has plenary power to review all fees and expenses in connection with the reorganization from whatever source
they may be payable. 2 Reasonable compensation for
10Chicago Trust Co., which was also the original indenture trustee.
11Respondent-counsel denies that it acted as counsel in that particular transaction or knew of the alleged misrepresentation in the
prospectus at the time, and asserts that it did not learn of the
contents of the circular until a question was raised concerning it
during this reorganization proceeding. 'We accept its version of the
facts.
12 Sec. 221
(4) provides: "The judge shall confirm a plan if satisfied that . . . all payments made or promised by the debtor or by
a corporation issuing securities or acquiring property under the plan
or by any other person, for services and for costs and expenses in,
or in connection with, the proceeding or in connection with the plan

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

services rendered may be allowed."' The claimant, however, has the burden of proving their worth. Furthermore, "reasonable compensation for services rendered"
necessarily implies loyal and disinterested service in the
interest of those for whom the claimant purported to act.
A-mercian United Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. City of Avon.
Park, 311 U. S. 138. Where a claimant, who represented
members of the investing public, was serving more than
one master or was subject to conflicting interests, he
should be denied compensation. It is no answer to say
that fraud or unfairness were not shown to have resulted.
Cf. Jackson v. Smith, 254 U. S. 586, 589. The principle
enunciated by Chief Justice Taft in a case involving a
contract to split fees in violation of the bankruptcy rules,
is apposite here: "What is struck at in the refusal 'to
enforce contracts of this kind is not only actual evil results but their tendency to evil in other cases." Weil v.
Neary, 278 U. S. 160, 173. -Furthermore, the incidence
of a particular conflict of interest can seldom be measured with -any degree of. certainty. The bankruptcy
court need not speculate as to whether the result of the
conflict was to delay action where speed was essential,
to close the record of past transactions where publicity
and investigation were needed, to compromise claims by
inattention where vigilant assertion was necessary,, or
otherwise to dilute the undivided loyalty owed to thbse
whom the claimant purported to represent. Where an
actual conflict of interest exists, no more need be shovn
in this type of ease to support a denial of compensation.
Protective committees, as well as indenture trustees,
are fiduciaries.. Bullard v. City of Cisco, 290 U. S. 179;
and incident 'to the reorganization, have been fully disclosed to the
judge and are reasonable or, if to be fixed after confirmation of the
plan, will be subject to the approval of the judge; .. "
"Indenture trustees, committees, and their attorneys are included
among those to whom the compensation may be allowed. § 242.

WOODS v. CITY BANK CO.
262

Opinion of the Court.

Jewett v. Commonwealth Bond Corp., 241 App. Div.
131; 271 N. Y. S. 522; Bergelt v. Roberts, 144 Misc. 832;
258 N. Y. S. 905, aff'd 236 App. Div. 777; 258 N. Y. S.
1086; Carter v. First Nat'l Bank, 128 Md. 581; 98 A. 77.
Cf. Nichol v. Sensenbrenner, 220 Wis. 165; 263 N. W.
650. A fiduciary who represents security holders in a
reorganization may not perfect his claim to compensation
by insisting that, although he had conflicting interests, he
served his several masters equally well or that his primary loyalty was not weakened by the pull of his secondary one. Only strict adherence to these equitable
principles can keep the standard of conduct for fiduciaries "at a level higher than that trodden by the crowd."
See Mr. Justice Cardozo in Meinhard v. Salmon, 249
N. Y. 458, 464; 164 N. E. 545.
The findings of the District Court that these claimants
represented conflicting interests are amply supported by
the evidence.
Some discrimination, however, is necessary in applying
the foregoing rule to claims for expenses. Reimbursement for "proper costs and expenses incurred in connection with the administration" of the estate may be allowed.' 4 The rule disallowing compensation because bf
conflicting interests may be equally effective to bar recovery of the expenditures made by a claimant subject to
conflicting interests. Plainly expenditures are not
"proper" within the meaning of the Act where the claimart cannot show that they were made in furtherance of
a project exclusively devoted to the interests of those
whom the claimant purported to represent. On the other
hand, those expenditures normally should be allowed
which have clearly benefited the estate. Scott on
Trusts (1939), § 245.1. Thus where taxes have been
paid, needful repairs or additions to the property have
been made, or the like, equity does not permit the estate
"§ 242.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

to retain those benefits without paying for them.

Such

classification of expenses, at times difficult, rests in the
sound discretion of the bankruptcy court. The District
Court drew no such distinction but proceeded on the

theory that reimbursement for all expenses must be denied.

But it is not apparent that all of them fall within

the prohibited category.
The other points raised by petitioner are so plainly
without merit that they do not warrant mention.
For the reasons stated we reverse the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals and remand the cause to the
District Court for further proceedings in conformity with

this opinion.
Reversed.

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. PACIFIC COAL &
OIL CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 194.

Argued January 9, 1941.-Decided February 3,1941.

1., To support a suit under the Declaratory Judgment Act, the facts
must show a substantial controversy, real and immediate between
parties having adverse legal interests. P. 273.
2. An insurer issued a policy covering liability of the insured for
personal injuries caused by automobiles "hired by the insured."
Under the policy and the state law, an injured party could keep
the policy from lapsing by serving notice of the accident, etc., if
-the insured failed to do so; and, if successful in obtaining judgment against the insured, could enforce it by supplementary proceedings against the insurer. The insured having been sued in the
state court for personal injuries sustained in a collision between
a truck driven by an employee of the insured and the automobile of the claimant, the insurer brought suit in the federal court
against the insured and the claimant, alleging that the truck was
not "hired by the insured" and contending that it was not bound to
defend the state court suit or to indemnify the insured. Held:

