OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

The District Court discussed at some length the provisions of the Massachusetts Act of 1896 chartering the
terminal company. The respondent insists that the
court erroneously construed the Act and held that it
will not sustain any claim on the part of the terminal
company, or the State or the City of Boston, against
the New Haven estate in respect of the interest on the
terminal company's bonds and taxes assessed on its property and franchise. The trustees' petition sought an
order dealing only with the current administration of the
New Haven estate and the District Court need not have
decided, and we think did not decide, any question other
than that presented. In any event, no question of the
validity of any Such claim is presented on this record and
our affirmance of the District Court's order is not to be
taken as the expression of an opinion upon any such
question.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
PHILADELPHIA COMPANY

ET AL.

v. DIPPLE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 242 and 243. Argued January 8, 9, 1941.-Decided February 3,
1941.

1. The trustees of a debtor street railway company in a reorganization proceeding under § 77B (now Chapter X) of the Bankruptcy
Act, are not required by the Act of June 18, 1934 to pay, out of
the estate of the debtor, taxes owed by corporations whose properties the debtor operated-together with its own in a unified
system-under leases and operating agreements, and which the
trustees continued to operate. P. 175.
2. Pending affirmation or rejection of the leases and operating agreements by the trustees, their obligation was to pay only a reason-

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. DIPPLE.
168

Opinion of the Court.

able amount for use and occupation, not in excess of the net earnings derived from the operation of each property. P. 174.
11I F. 2d 932, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 628, to review the reversal of an

order directing the payment of certain taxes by the trustees in a reorganization proceeding under § 77B of the
Bankruptcy Act. An appeal from the order of the District Court was taken by the Tort Creditors' Committee
and the City of Pittsburgh, respondents here. Petitioners here are the Philadelphia Company (principal
creditor and owner of all the capital stock of the debtor
Pittsburgh Railways Company) and certain underliers.
Mr. W. A. Seifert, with whom Messrs. Lee C. Beatty,
Richard W. Ahlers, and Hill Burgwin were on the brief,
for petitioners.
Miss Anne X. Alpern and Mr. A. E. Kountz, with
whom Messrs. Leon Wald and Lewis M. Alpern were on
the brief, for respondents.
MR.* JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents a problem similar to that involved in
Palmer v. Webster & Atlas National Bank, ante, p. 156.
Here the debtor instituted a reorganization proceeding
under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act (now chapter X
of that Act) I and the question presented is whether the
'§ 77B was adopted June 7, 1934, 48 Stat. 912, and was amended
Aug. 29, 1935, 49 Stat. 965, and Aug. 12, 1937, 50 Stat. 622. By
the terms of the Chandler Act adopted June 22, 1938, 52 Stat. 840,
883, the provisions of § 77B were superseded by chapter X of the

Bankruptcy Act and that chapter was made applicable, so far as
practicable, in cases pending when the Act took effect. The petition
in this case was filed May 10, 1938, and the Chandler Act became

effective Sept. 22 of that year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

trustees should be directed to pay taxes owed by corporations whose properties the debtor operated under leases
and operating agreements and the trustees continued to
operate. Although the courts below did not refer to
the Act of June 18, 1934,2 the petitioners' insistence that
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is in the
teeth of the provisions of the Act and conflicts with the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second
Circuit in the Palmer case caused us to grant certiorari.
The debtor, Pittsburgh Railways Company, has, for
many years, possessed and used the properties of some
fifty-five street railway companies and has operated those
properties, in connection with its own, as a unified street
railway system in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and surrounding territory. The debtor obtained possession of
the properties of the underlying companies through
leases and operating agreements which required the
debtor to pay all expenses of operation and maintenance
and all the taxes of the underlying companies. The system comprises some 560 miles of track, incline plane
railways, cars, car barns, and buildings. The debtor owns
28 miles of the track and owns cars and other property.
Pursuant to the terms of the leases and agreements, the
debtor has directly paid the expenses of operating, maintenance charges, and all taxes of the underlying companies. After the filing of the debtor's petition under
§ 77B, its approval, and an order continuing the debtor
in possession, the court, June 14, 1938, appointed trustees with authority to maintain, manage, and operate
the property in possession of, or owned by, the debtor;
to manage and conduct its business; collect the revenues
therefrom, and to pay all taxes and assessments due, or
to become due, upon property in possession of, or owned
by, the debtor. The trustees have since been operating
248

Stat. 993, 28 U. S. C. § 124 (a).

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. DIPPLE.
168

Opinion of the Court.

the business, using therein the properties of the underlying companies. They have not affirmed or disaffirmed
the leases and operating agreements.
March 10, 1939, the trustees petitioned the District
Court for instructions respecting the payment, as administration expenses, of taxes assessed against the debtor,
a subsidiary, and the underlying companies.' The petition was referred to a master before whom objections
were filed by the City of Pittsburgh, a creditor, and also
by a creditors' committee, to the payment of the taxes
assessed against the underlying companies. These consisted of Pennsylvania corporate stock taxes, Pennsylvania corporate net income taxes, Pennsylvania corporate
loan taxes, and federal income taxes, some of which accrued and became payable subsequent to the filing of
the petition for reorganization and some of which accrued prior thereto. The present petitioners appeared
before the master and advocated an order for payment
of the taxes.
It appeared from the trustees' petition that they had
on hand an amount sufficient to pay all the taxes as to
which they requested instruction and that none of the
underlying companies had funds with which to pay any
of the taxes assessed against them. The testimony before the master showed that during the existence of the
unified system no attempt was made to account for the
revenues and operating expenses of individual underlying
companies; that any attempt to account for the revenues
and expenses of individual companies would be very expensive and the results would not be sufficiently accurate
to form a basis for allocating the items; that it was
impossible to operate each underlying company separately so as to ascertain the net earnings of each, and
' The terms of the order ultimately entered with respect to taxes

of the debtor and its subsidiary are not here drawn in question.

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

that it was probably impossible to determine what would
be the fair proportion of rentals to be paid to the various
underlying companies whose properties were utilized by
the debtor and are now utilized by the trustees. There
was testimony that it was impracticable at the time of
the hearing for the trustees to state what properties of
underlying companies would be embraced in the contemplated plan of reorgahization.
In his report, the master recommended that the trustees be directed not to pay taxes assessed against the
underlying companies at the present time. This recommendation was supported by a finding that it was uncertain that any of the leases would be affirmed by the
trustees and that, in the absence of evidence that the net
earnings of each underlying company equalled its taxes,
payment of taxes might result in preferment or overpayment. Furthermore, the master found that claims of the
debtor against certain of the underlying companies might
extinguish any existing equities in the properties of the
latter.
After a hearing on exceptions to the master's report,
and after receiving a recommendation from the trustees
as to what taxes of the underlying companies should
be paid, the District Court entered an order that- the
bulk of the taxes of the underlying companies should be
paid by the trustees. The decree was predicated upon
tie fact that the system had been operated as a unit for
many years; that all income derived from the lines of the
underlying companies had been kept in one fund, and
that it was equitable that the taxes of the underlying
companies be treated as taxes of the debtor.
Upon an appeal by the creditors' committee and by the
City of Pittsburgh, the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the order of the District Court so far as it applied to
the taxes of the underlying companies.' That court held
111 F. 2d 932.

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. DIPPLE.
168

Opinion of the Court.

that the debtor's undertaking to pay the taxes of the
underlying companies was merely a portion of the consideration for the use of their property and was, therefore, a rental, obligation and not a tax liability. The
argument was pressed upon the court that the separate
corporate entities of the underlying companies should be
disregarded. In view of the fact that none of the underlying companies had filed petitions for reorganization,
and thus subjected themselves to the jurisdiction of the
court, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that, until affirmation of the leases and operating agreements by the
trustees, their sole obligation was to pay a reasonable
amount for use and occupation which could not be in
excess of the net earnings derived from the operation of
each property and could not be ascertained until it was
determined what property was being used, the extent of
the use, and the net earnings derived from it or its value.
The petitioners challenge the decision on the ground
that it is contrary to the terms of the Act of June 18,
1934,1 which directs that a trustee appointed by a court
of the United States who is authorized to conduct any
business, or does so, shall be subject to all state and local
taxes applicable to the business; and on the further
ground that it is violative of accepted principles of equitable administration of estates in receivership or reorganization.
The situation here differs from that disclosed in the
Palmer case in that § 77B contains no provision requiring the debtor to continue to operate the business of a
lessor upon rejection of the lease. It further differs in
that, here, the trustees have neither affirmed nor disaffirmed the leases and operating agreements. Another
difference is that, in the present instance, none of the
lessors or underlying companies is in reorganization.
'Supra, Note 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Notwithstanding the fact that § 77B gives no specific
authority to trustees in reorganization to reject burdensome leases or contracts, it is well settled that they have
that right and are accorded a reasonable time within
which to exercise it. If, in the opinion of the officers of
the underlying companies, a reasonable time has expired
those companies are not without redress. They may declare a forfeiture of the leases and abrogate the agreements for nonperformance on the part of the trustees, or
they may apply to the District Court to compel an election by the trustees, to affirm or disaffirm. In the meantime, if the situation were such as to permit a proper
calculation of the amount due for use and occupation, it
would be proper for the court to order the trustees to
pay a reasonable sum to be treated as a payment for use
and occupation in the event that the leases and agreements are disaffirmed or, on account of rent, in the event
they are affirmed. But this record furnishes no basis for
such a calculation. The master has found, and the finding is not challenged, that there are no data available
from which it can be determined what is the value of the
various underlying properties or what is the fair value
of their use. It is evident that the debtor has welded
these underlying properties -into one system in such
fashion that a single route or a single passenger ride
may involve the use of a number of the underlying companies' properties. Ascertainment of a proper apportionment of the receipts of the system as a whole to the
respective contributions of the underlying companies'
properties is obviously almost an impossible task. Moreover, since the underlying companies are simple contract creditors, an overpayment to any one of them might
work a preference as against other such creditors, including the City of Pittsburgh and the tort claimants who
are respondents here.

PHILADELPHIA CO. v. DIPPLE.
168

Opinion of the Court.

In the light of these facts, it becomes evident that the
Act of 1934 has no application. The trustees are operating the business of the Pittsburgh Railways Company,
a corporation of Pennsylvania. The District Court has
ordered them to pay the taxes due by that corporation
and by its wholly owned subsidiary, a bus company.
In that aspect the order is not attacked. But the trustees are not operating the business of the various underlying companies. It may well be that the only business
those companies have is to collect or enforce payment of
the rentals and considerations due them under the respective leases and operating agreements. But, even so,
that businees is not the business of the Pittsburgh Railways Company and the trustees are not trustees of any
such business.
What has been said in the Palmer case need not be
amplified in this case. It is plain that the Act of 1934 is
inapplicable.
The petitioners recognize that the authorities cited by
them in which courts having charge of receiverships or of
reorganization proceedings under § 77B have ordered the
payment of taxes by a receiver or by trustees dealt only
with the taxes of the corporation represented by the
receiver, or for whose business the trustees were appointed. They contend, however, that the same principle ought to apply here because the system operated
by the Pittsburgh Railways Company is a unified system. They urge that the business is a single business.
They show that for thirty-six years prior to the filing of
the petition the identity of the lines of the underlying
companies has been obliterated by the creation of a unified system of railway transportation and they. say that
the whole business should be treated as that of the Pittsburgh Railways Company now conducted by its trustees
in reorganization. But, as we have said, the underlying
companies' relation to the Pittsburgh Railways Company

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

is that of creditor and debtor and no principle of equity
justifies ignoring that relation when, so to do, might adversely affect the claims of other creditors.
For these reasons we hold the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was right and should be affirmed.
Affirmed.

SUPERIOR BATH HOUSE CO. v. McCARROLL,
COMMISSIONER OF REVENUES OF ARKANSAS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 180. Submitted December 18, 1940.-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. An Arkansas corporation which leases from the United States and
operates for profit a bath house on the federal reservation at Hot
* Springs is taxable by Arkansas on its net income; under authority
of the Act of Congress of 1891, which gives the consent of the
United States to "the taxation, under the authority of the laws
of the State of Arkansas applicable to the equal taxation of personal
property in that State, as personal property of all structures and
other property in private ownership on the Hot Springs Reservation." P. 178.
2. The Act of 1891 may not be construed as consenting only to
ad valorem taxes imposed directly on tangible property. P. 179.
200 Ark. 233; 139 S. W. 2d 378, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree sustaining the validity of a state

tax.
Mr. Terrell Marshall submitted for appellant.
Messrs. Frank Pace, Jr. and Lester M. Ponder submitted for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By a 1929 Act, Arkansas imposed a tax of 2% on the
net income of domestic corporations "with respect to

