EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 377.

Argued February 12, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. To an indictment under the Securities and Mail Fraud Acts, and
for conspiracy, based upon sales of securities issued by organizations alleged to have been created by the defendant as part of a
fraudulent scheme, a plea in bar claiming immunity under the
Securities Act sufficiently shows the incriminating character of
the evidence produced under -subpoena of the Securities and Exchange Commission by alleging that it concerned the identity of
the accused and his relationship to the organizations "which are
the subject matter of this prosecution" and concerned his personal entries, books and records "which are a part of the subject
matter of this prosecution." P. 479.
2. The overruling of a plea in bar claiming immunity under the
Securities Act because of testimony given before the Securities
and Exchange Commission can not be justified upon the ground
that the -defendant failed to prove its allegations where the plea
was accompanied by a motion for the production of the transcript
of the testimony and both plea and motion showed that application for such transcript had been refused by the Commission.
P. 480.
It rested in the discretion of the trial court in this case to
issue an order to show cause why the complete transcript should
not be produced, if it deemed all of it necessary, or only so much
of it as would fairly make it appear whether the testimony of the
accused before the Commission was a.proper foundation* for the
amnesty claimed.
3. Error of a trial court in overruling a plea of immunity under
the Securities Act without ordering production of a transcript of
testimony delivered by the defendant before the Securities and
Exchange Commission, was not cured by an offer of the Government to produce the transcript at the trial, which the court declined, or by its subsequent production 'by the Government in the
Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 481.
4. An appeal in a criminal case is to be heard on the record certified
to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Criminal Appeals Rules VIII
and IX. P. 482.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

474

Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

5. An objection to an indictment because in its endorsement as a
true bill the foreman of the grand jury described himself as
"Foreman" instead of "Foreman of the Grand Jury," held frivo-

lous. P. 482.
6. A count charging sale. of unregistered securities in violation- of
the Securities Act need not allege that they were not of the class
exempted from registration by § 3 of the Aft and the rules and
regulations thereunder. P. 482.

7. The indictment in this case sufficiently showed the materiality
of facts withheld from purchasers of the securities, in violation
of the Securities Act, 15 U. S. C. 77q (a) (2). P. 483.

113 F. 2d 286, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 632, to review a judgment affirming a sentence which was entered on a plea of nolo
contendere after a demurrer and a plea in bar had been
overruled.

Mr. J. ForrestMcCutcheon for petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle and Messrs. Wendell Berge arid M. Joseph Matan
were on the brief, for 'he United States.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here upon affirmance by the Circuit Court
of Appeals of a sentence imposed after a plea of nolo
contendere.' We granted certiorari because there were
involved certain important questions of criminal procedure, especially with respect to a plea in bar filed by
petitioner. That plea claimed immunity from prosecution because of prior incriminating testimony given under
compulsion by the petitioner at an investigation conducted by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The indictment against petitioner, in eleven counts,
arose out of an alleged fraudulent scheme for selling in' 113 F. 2d 286.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
473

Opinion of the Court.

terests, created by him as a part of the device, in various
oil and gas leases in Oklahoma and Texas.' The first
three counts charged violations of the fraud provisions
of the Securities Act, 15 U. S. C. § 77q (a); the fourth
and fifth, violations of the registration provisions of that
Act, 15 U. S. C. § 77e; counts six to ten, violations of the
mail fraud statute, 18 U. S. C. § 338; and the eleventh
count, a conspiracy to commit the offenses previously
set forth.
On December 16, 1938, petitioner filed a demurrer,
attacking the legal sufficiency of the indictment on a
number of grounds. At the same time he filed a "Plea
in Bar and Application for Production of Transcript of
Evidence." The substance of this plea was the following: That on April 14, 1938, and two successive dates,
pursuant to subpoenas duces tecum, petitioner had appeared before an officer of the Securities and Exchange
Commission with the books and records called for, and
"after having claimed his immunity against self incrimination, as provided by law and the Constitution of the
United States, under compulsion, testified under oath,
pursuant t9 various questions propounded and asked
him by said officer of said Commission, said testimony
concerning said defendant's identity and relationship to
various trusts and organizations which are the subject
matter of this prosecution and concerning divers and
sundry other matters pertaining to the matters which
are the subject of this prosecution, and particularly to
the personal entries, books and records of said defendant,
which are a part of the subject matter of this prosecution."
The pleading goes on to state, upon information and
belief, that the evidence adduced by the Commission in
the course of its investigation was transmitted to the Attorney General for criminal prosecution; that petitioner
was compelled to give information and testimony "which

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

it is believed the Government will use against him in the
prosecution herein"; and that petitioner was accordingly
immune from prosecution under § 22 (c) of the Securities Act.2 Petitioner further set forth that at the time of
the Commission hearings he had demanded a copy of the
transcript of his testimony, offering to pay the cost
thereof, but that the request had been refused; that on
December 1, 1938, he had made a similar request, which
also had been refused, as evidenced by an attached letter
from the assistant general counsel of the Commission.3
Petitioner renewed his demand and tender of payment,
asserting that it was necessary for him to have the transcript in the presentation to the court of his plea in bar,
and that it was necessary for the court to have it before
passing on the plea. The pleading concludes by pray15 U. S. C. § 77v (e): "No person shall be excused from attending and testifying or from producing books, papers, contracts, agreements, and other documents before the Commission, or in obedience
to the subpena of the Commission or any member thereof or any
officer designated by it, or in any cause or proceeding instituted by
the Commission, on the ground that the testimony or evidence,
documentary or otherwise, required of him, may tend to incriminate
him or subject him to a penalty or forfeiture; but no individual shall
be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for or on
account of any transaction, matter, or thing concerning which he
is compelled, after having claimed his privilege against self-incrimination, to testify or produce evidence, documentary or otherwise,
except that such individual so testifying shall not be exempt from
prosecution and punishment for perjury committed in so testifying."
'Inpart, the letter read:
"Inasmuch as the evidence adduced by the Commission in the
course of its investigation was transmitted to the Attorney General
for criminal prosecution and an indictment has been returned, this
Commission does not feel it proper to make available to the defendant the testimony taken from witnesses which may be used
by the Government in the prosecution of its case. In view of this,
the Commission must respectfully refuse to comply with your
request. The United States Attorney concurs in this view."
2

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
473

Opinion of the Court.

ing the court to order that the transcript be furnished
petitioner and that he be heard on the merits of this
plea in bar.
On February 28, 1939, the Government filed a pleading called a "Motion to Strike Plea in Bar and Objection
to Production of Transcript of Evidence." This attacked the sufficiency of the plea in bar on its face in
three different respects, and also alleged in the nature
of an answer that petitioner
ccwas never sworn at any time during the proceedings or
hearings complained of and at no time produced any
books or records, and did not at any time testify under
oath, and was never compelled to testify or give any information against himself or anyone else under oath or
otherwise and that each of said hearings complained of
was recessed shortly after the defendant interposed his
plea of immunity."
In support of this last allegation the Government attached an affidavit of an attorney of the Securities and
Exchange Commission who had been present on all three
occasions when the petitioner claimed to have given incriminating testimony under compulsion.
Petitioner moved to strike this affidavit of the Commission attorney on the ground that it deprived him of
his right to cross-examination and that it was "wholly
incompetent to establish the facts attempting to be
established."
The District Court overruled petitioner's demurrer to
the indictment, his plea in bar and application for the
transcript, and also his motion to strike the affidavit of
the Commission attorney. An affidavit later filed by
the Government in the Circuit Court of Appeals shows
that at this hearing on petitioner's plea in bar
"counsel for the government of the United States stated
to the Court that they had the transcripts of the record

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

in the proceedings ... and if the government's affidavit
was not sufficient, the government would offer them in
evidence if the Court desired to examine them; that upon
being so advised, His Honor, Judge Vaught,, stated that
he did not care to see the transcripts, that he did not
need them to pass upon the said plea in bar, and that he
was going to overrule the defendant's plea in bar."
The Government's motion to strike the plea in bar was
overruled, also. Subsequently petitioner withdrew his
original plea of not guilty,4 and entered a plea of nolo
cantendere. The District Court sentenced him to three
years on each count, the. terms to run concurrently. On
appeal petitioner assigned as error the action of the District Court in overruling his demurrer and plea.
When the case was argued before the Circuit Court of
Appeals the Government submitted, over petitioner's objection, a copy of what it said was a transcript of petitioner's testimony before the Securities and Exchange
Commission, supported by an affidavit of the assistant
United States attorney in charge of this prosecution.
The transcript was offered to buttress the Government's
contention that petitioner had in fact given no testimony
of an incriminating nature, but the Circuit Court of
Appeals did not rest its affirmance even in part upon the
contents of the transcript.
The court affirmed because the plea in bar did not allege that the claim of immunity was made in a "hearing"
of the Commission as distinguished from an "investigation" and because no evddence was produced by petitioner in support of his plea. As to the demurrer to
the indictment, the Circuit Court of Appeals found no
error in omitting from the conspiracy count allegations
that the classes of securities involved in the alleged
frauds were not in the excepted categories of securities
'Petitioner had pleaded not guilty .on December 17, 1938.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
473

479

Opinion of the- Court.

in section three of the Securities Act. This was the sole
ground of petitioner's attack on the conspiracy count.
In the belief that a sentence on this count, to run concurrently with equal sentences on the other counts, made
it unnecessary to examine the other counts,5 the court did
not examine the sufficiency of the other counts.
Petitioner urges as grounds for our reversal of the
judgment below the errors in overruling his plea in bar
and demurrer, in affirming a sentence of three years on
the conspiracy count of the indictment. without examination of the other counts, and in receiving the transscript of testimony before the Commission and accompanying affidavit as evidence.
Plea in Bar. The Government challenges the sufficiency of the plea in bar to show petitioner's claim to
the benefit of the amnesty of § 22 (c). It suggests that
the excerpt set out in the third paragraph ofthis opinion
shows only that testimony was given concerning "defendant's identity and relationship" to the organizations
whose securities the indictment charges defendant fraudulently sold; that "other matters" testified to are not
specified nor the "nature" of the testimony concerning
them or his personal records. But the allegations of the
plea are not to be weighed separately. Petitioner's identity and his relationship to the trusts alleged to have
been created by him as a part of the fraudulent scheme
are of primary importance in the proof of his criminality.
This is quite different from the testimony in Heike v.
United States,' a prosecution for fraud on the revenue in
weighing imported sugar. There, former testimony in a
Sherman Act proceeding related to official connection
with a company involved and .also a table showing the
'Claassen v. United States, 142 U. S. 140; Gorin v. United States,
312 U. S. 19.
6227 U. S. 131.

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

amount of sugar handled by the company, and a claim
for amnesty was denied because the evidence "neither
ld nor could have led to a discovery of his crime." Certainly, had petitioner given evidence of his creation of
the organizations which the indictment says were part of
his artifice it might easily have led to discovery of his
trickery. It seems, too, that at least some of the other
matters were specified, to wit: the personal entries, books
and records of petitioner. Likewise, the nature of his
alleged testimony concerning his records is sufficiently
related to the indictment by saying they are a part of the
subject matter of this prosecution. The plea is good on
its face.
It is next urged that the plea was properly overruled
because of petitioner's failure to prove its allegations.!
Such result is assumed to follow on the theory that, as
the burden was on petitioner to prove his plea, the failure of the record to show an offer of proof justifies the
order. As appears from the preceding statement of the
case, the trial court overruled not only the plea in bar
but petitioner's motion for production of the transcript,
which was c rtainly the best evidence of whether the
testimony before the Commission was sufficiently related to the prosecution to support amnesty. In the
Martin case,8 this Court said the action dismissing a
traversed motion for failure of proof would have been
reversed if the opportunity to establish the facts by evidence had been denied the accused. Treating the Government's motion to strike the plea in bar as a traverse
of that pleading which would justify the order overruling
it in the absence of a showing in the record of an offer of
proof, that result does .not follow where, as here, the plea
Cf. Nardone v. United States, 308, U. S. 338, 341; Martin. v.
Texas, 200 U. S. 316, 319; Mamaux v. United States, 264 F. 816,
819.
'Supra, note 7.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
473

Opinion of the Court.

is accompanied by a motion for the production of the
transcript of the former evidence. The plea and motion
shcwed that application had previously been made to
the Securities and Exchange Commission for the transcript and had been refused.
We assume that the proceeding in which the former
testimony was given was a private and confidential investigation of the Commission rather than a hearing
which might e entuate in an order.' The Commission's
refusal to produce the record indicates that the request
had been for a complete transcript of the hearing. It
rests in the discretion of the trial court to issue an order
to show cause why the complete transcript should not be
produced, if it deems all of it necessary, or only so much
as may fairly make it appear whether the testimony of
petitioner before the Commission was a proper foundation for the amnesty claimed. This is not an instance
of the inspection of notes or material gathered by a prosecutor for his own use.'0 What is sought is the production as evidence in the hearing on the plea in bar of the
very foundation of the plea. We find nothing in this
record to indicate the desirability of secrecy so far as
the testimony of petitioner is concerned. The Government introduced in the Court of Appeals a purported
transcript of petitioner's former testimony' without asserting its confidential character then or in the motion
and traverse below.
Finally the Government contends that the refusal to
order the production of the testimony was not prejudicial.
This argument presupposes that the offer to produce in
the trial court and the actual production in the Circuit
Court of Appeals was adequate. Otherwise we cannot
'Cf. In re Securities & Exchange Commission, 14 F. Supp. 417,
418; 84 F. 2d 316; reversed as moot, 299 U. S. 504.
" People ex rel. Lemon v. Supreme Court, 245 N. Y. 24; 156 N. E.
84; cf. Rex v. Holland, 4 T. R. (Durnford & East) 691.
301335

-41----31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

know what the testimony was which is relied upon for
the amnesty. We think that neither offer was an adequate proffer. In neither instance was the petitioner
given an opportunity to cross-examine; no witness produced the transcript; it was not certified as a part of
the record from the trial court or as a part of the records
of the agency.11 The record certified to the Circuit Court
of Appeals is the record on which the appeal is to be
heard: Criminal Appeals Rules VIII and IX.
The refusal to permit the accused to prove his defense
may prove trivial when the facts are developed. Procedural errors often are.- But procedure is the skeleton
which forms and supports the whole structure of a case.
The lack of a bone mars the symmetry of the body.
The parties must be given an opportunity to plead and
prove their contentions or else the impression of the
judge arising from sources outside the record dominates
results. The requirement that allegations must be supported by evidence tested by cross-examination protects
against falsehood. The opportunity to assert rights
through pleading and testimony is essential to their successful protection. Infringement of that opportunity is
forbidden.1"
Other Objections. As the case must be'remanded, petitioner's objection to the three-year sentence on the conspiracy count is sustained without discussion. Criminal
Code, § 37; 18 U. S. C. § 88. Frivolous objection is
made to the indictment because it is endorsed "A true
bill, Ernest W. Clarke, Foreman" instead of "Foreman of
the grand jury." This contention is rejected.
Petitioner brings here for review his demurrer to the
indictment and each count thereof. The Circuit Court
of Appeals found the conspiracy count sufficient against
Cf. R. S. § 882, as amended, 48 Stat. 1109.
Cf. Walker v. Johnston, 312 U. S. 275.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
473,

Opinion -of the Court.

an attack that, in charging a conspiracy to violate the
Securities Act of 1933 by selling unregistered securities,
the count failed to charge that the securities so sold
were not of the class exempted from registration under
section three of the Act and the rules and regulations
thereunder. With this ruling we agree.1 As the sentence under count eleven, the conspiracy count, was for
as long a time as any of the other counts upon which concurrent sentences had been imposed, the Circuit Court
of .Appeals did not review the alleged deficiencies of the
other counts.
Counts four and five are charged with the same fault
as eleven. For a like reason we hold them good. Counts
one and two describe the scheme to defraud and allege.
instances of the use of the mails. The brief of petitioner
fails to raise any question deserving consideration as to
their sufficiency and we see none. Petitioner challenges
count three for failure to state the materiality of facts
which the count charges were omitted, although they
were required to be stated to avoid misleading purchasers.14 But the count, after describing various omitted facts by. paragraphs, ends such paragraphs with the
allegation
"such fact being well known to said defendants and each
of them at all times herein mentioned, and such fact
being material in order to make the statements made by
said defendants, in the light of the circumstances under
which they were made, not misleading..
The facts alleged were obyiously material. Counts six
to ten inclusive are based upon the mail fraud statute."
Petitioner's objection to these counts is that a later act,
the Securities Act of 1933, makes it unlawful to use the
"8 McKelvey v. United States, 260 U. S. 353, 357.
" § 17 (a) (2), Securities Act of 1933; 15 U. S. C. 77q (a) (2).
" Criminal Code, § 215; 18 U. S. C. § 338.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

mails to defraud by the sale of securities. His argument
is that, in so far as the later act prohibits the fraudulent
sale of securities by mail, it repeals by implication the
provisions of the old mail fraud statute in so far as they
cover securities. We see no basis for a conclusion that
Congress intended to repeal the earlier statute. The two
can exist and be useful, side by side."
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

BREISCH

v.

CENTRAL RAILROAD
JERSEY.

OF

NEW

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 384.

Argued January 17, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.

1. The remedy of an employee of an interstate railway for personal
injuries suffered while he was engaged about intrastate transportation and caused by a breach of the Federal Safety Appliance
Acts, is the remedy afforded by the common or statutory law of
the State. P. 486.
2. The Federal Safety Appliance Acts create the right; the remedy is
within the State's discretion. P. 486.
3. A fixed interpretatioD of a state statute by the supreme court
of the State should be accepted by the federal courts when it
does not obviously depend altogether on a misconception of
federal law. P. 488.
4. In construing the state Workmen's Compensation Act as inapplicable to causes of action arising under the Federal Safety
Appliance Acts and in ruling that the remedy in such cases is
by action at law, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania does not
1'Cf. United States v. Rollnick, 91 F. 2d 911, 918; United States
v. Montgomery, 21 F. Supp. 770; United States v. Alluan, 13 F.
Supp. 289.

