ARMOUR & CO. v. ALTON R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ARMOUR & COMPANY v. ALTON RAILROAD CO.'
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 293.

Argued January 14, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.

Upon the basis of the allegationsof a complaint filed in the District
Court in this case, wherein a packer seeks to compel railroad companies to deliver shipments of livestock at such a location and in
such manner that it need not pay a "yardage charge" to a stockyard company (contrary to a custom of long standing), held that,
as- determination of many complex transportation problems was
prerequisite to a decision, the cause was within the primary jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the complaint
was properly dismissed. Pp. 200, 202.
111 F. 2d 913, affirmed..
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 627, to review the affirmance of a

judgment dismissing a bill of complaint, 27 F. Supp.,
625.
Mr. Paul E. Blanchard, with whom Messrs. Chas. J.
Faulkner, Jr. and John Potts Barnes were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Douglas F. Smith, with whom Messrs. Kenneth F.
Burgess and Frank H. Towner were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTIcE

BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This litigation is the latest episode of a long struggle
involving the meat packers, the railroads, and the Union
Stock Yard and Transit Company of Chicago.' Basically, on the merits the issue here presented is whether
'See Adams v. Mills, 286 U. S. 397; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co.
v. United States, 295 U. S. 193.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Armour, and Company, one of the packers, is correct in
its contention that under the facts of this case the railroads must deliver its shipments of livestock at such 'a
location and in such a manner that it need pay no "yardage charge" to the Stock Yards Company. The case is
here on certiorari (311 U. S. 627) from the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit,2 which affirmed a District
Court order dismissing Armour's complaint against the
railroads.8 The ground on which the Circuit Court
affirmed was that the issues involved presented administrative problems, necessitating primary resort tothe Interstate Commerce Commission.' The sole question we
find it necessary to decide is whether the Circuit Court
-was correct in this conclusion.
It is petitioner's contention that its complaint showed
a wilful failure and refusal on the part of the railroads
to deliver livestock to petitioner in accordance with
the railroads' contractual and common law duties; that
instead of delivering to petitioner, the railroads delivered
to the Stock Yards Company--contrary to petitioner's
express direction-with full knowledge 'that the Stock
Yards Company would not effect a delivery to petitioner
without first exacting a yardage charge in addition to
the agreed transportation charges set out in the railroads' regular published tariffs; and that petitioner's
right to proceed in the courts for such a breach of duty
exists under the provisions of 49 U. S. C., §§ 9 and 22.'
"111 F. 2d 913.
"27 F.Supp. 625.
'The District Court, in addition to relying on this ground, held
that the complaint should be dismissed for failure to join the Stock
Yards Company as a defendant, and for failure to obtain consent of
court to bring suit against railroads which were in receivership. We
express no opinion on the correctness of those holdings.
'Section 9 provides for concurrent jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission and the courts "for the recovery of the
damages for which such' common carrier may be liable under the

ARMOUR & CO. 'v. ALTON R. CO.
195

Opinion of the Court.

But respondents contend, and both courts below held,
that the issues tendered by the complaint are not so simple as petitioner would have them seem. Their view is
that adjudication of the issues presented relates to such
complex transportation problems that determination of
the legal questions must necessarily be preceded by the
consideration of extensive evidence in a specialized field,
and that decision of such questions is by statute vested
exclusively in the Interstate Commerce Commission."
Since the cause was dismissed without answer or evidence, it is on the basis of the allegations of the complaint
thatwe must apply the controlling law.
The factual situation, according to the complaint, is as
follows: For many years prior to 1933 the railroads held
themselves out as ready to transport goods to "Union
Stock Yards, Illinois," and petitioner shipped to itself
at that station much livestock from various points of
origin in the United States. None of the railroads own or
operate a depot or terminal facilities for the unloading and
delivery of livestock, but all of them jointly have long had
arrangements with the "Union Stock Yard and Transit
Company," a public stock yard, for the use of its terminal facilities. This public stock yard is a common
carrier, subject in some respects to the jurisdiction of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and in others to that
of the Secretary of Agriculture. Its unloading charges,
fixed according to a tariff published and on file with the
Interstate Commerce Commission, are collected by the
railroads from petitioner and other shippers and are in
provisions of this chapter ...
" Section 22 provides that "nothing
in this chapter contained' shall in any way abridge or alter the
remedies now existing at common law or by statute, but the provisions of this chapter are in addition to such remedies; ..."
'Cf. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.
426; Mitchell Coal & Coke Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S.
247.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S..

turn paid to the Stock Yards Company." This charge,
however, does not include payment for use of the facilities after unloading and before delivery to consignees,
or for any services then* performed. To cover these
items, the Stock Yards Company collects an additional
charge, sin ce 1921 contained in a tariff filed with the
Secretary of Agriculture,' and it is this charge which is
at the root of the.present controversy.
In 1933 petitioner, without resort to the Interstate
Commerce Commission, demanded that the railroads
alter this long-standing practice so as to relieve it from
payment of this additional charge. Pursuant to its purpose, petitioner notified the railroads that it would not
thereafter utilize any services after unloading; asked that
tender of delivery be made to it immediately after unloading so that it could remove its stock to its own plant;
avowed its readiness thereafter to accept delivery at such
"reasonable and proper delivery pens of the carrier" at
"Union Stock Yards, Illinois," as might be provided by
the railroads; demanded that the railroads either directly
or through their agent, the Stock Yards Company, deliver the consigned stock to petitioner without any
charges except those paid for transportation; and declared that delivery to the Stock Yards Company contrary to petitioner's demand would be treated as a conversion of property for which the railroads would be held
responsible. Notwithstanding this demand the railroads
continued to deliver petitioner's consignments to the
Special statutory. provision requires railroads delivering at public
stockyards to unload the livestock. "Transportation . . . of ordinary livestock . . . destined to or received at public stockyards shall,
include .. . delivery . . into suitable pens. . . ." 49 ,U.' S. C.

§ 15 (5).
'Packers & Stockyards Act, 42 Stat. 159, 7 U. S. C. § 181 et seq.
Before 1921, this charge was fixed by the Stock Yards Company

itself.

ARMOUR & CO. v. ALTON R. CO.
195

Opinion of the Court.

Stock Yards Company and that Company, over petitioner's protest, continued to exact the controverted
charge. The railroad companies knew that delivery to
petitioner would only be made by the Stock Yards Company on Company property and with no means of egress
save by crossing other property of the Company, for
which privilege a charge would be exacted.
The complaint adds that in spite of this demand the
railroads have "continuously refused to provide or estallish by lease or otherwise at their said common station, Union Stock Yards, Illinois, any depot or platforms,
pen§ or facilities" where petitioner might accept delivery
of its stock without payment of the controverted charge,
and have also "failed to make any arrangement with its
said agent under .... which the plaintiff might have
free ingress . . and egress . . . to a public street."
Specifically, two breaches, are alleged: (1) a breach of
duty in failing "to provide reasonably convenient, accessible and safe unloading pens, at the said common depot
or station, at which such livestock could be tendered
to ,plaintiff"; and (2) a breach of contract in "failing to
afford to plaintiff an opportunity of receiving its livestock
and of removing the same with reasonable promptness
from the unloading pens used by defendants at Union
Stock Yards, Chicago, Illinois, or from any point at which
delivery thereof is tendered, . . ." The contract relied
on provides "That the carrier has received from the shipper . . . the livestock . . . consigned and destined as
indicated below, which the carrier agrees to carry to its
usual place of delivery at said destination, . .." The
usual place of delivery for livestock shipped to Union
Stock Yards, Chicago, Illinois, and indeed the only place
of delivery ever utilized at that station so far as the
complaint shows is the public stock yards.
The complaint concludes with a prayer for affirmative
relief: an adjudication that petitioner is entitled to de-

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

livery free of any charges other than those filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission; a mandatory injunction to require such delivery; and an accounting for those
charges paid under protest.
This statement of the facts alleged in the complaint
reveals that there are many questions relating to complex
transportation problems that must be solved as a prerequisite to a determination of whether the railroads,
in violation of contracts or governing laws, have failed
properly to deliver petitioner's livestock.' For illustration:
First. At what point did the common carriers' duty
to transport come to an end? Neither the statute nor
any applicable principle of governing law can be said
to mark this boundary, under all circumstances and
conditions and in all cases.
Second. Under the allegations of the complaint, the
practice of delivering livestock to the public stock yards
in Chicago, and the practice of the Stock Yards Company of exacting a charge from consignees, are longstanding customs. Shippers, railroads, the Stock Yard
Company, and the Interstate Commerce Commission
alike have left these practices in effect over a long period
of years. If use of the terminal facilities for egress to
the street after unloading of livestock is a part of transportation, as petitioner alleges, and if this use is a service
for which reasonable compensation is justified, it cannot
be doubted that this charge, like the unloading charge,
'Cf. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.
426; Mitchell Coal & Coke Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S.
247; United States v. American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., 301
U. S. 402. Petitioner relies on Covington Stock-Yards Co. v. Keith,
130 U. S. 128. But that case, a suit originally instituted before
Congress adopted the Interstate Commerce Act, is not determinative
of the respective jurisdictions of the courts and the Commission in
this case.

ARMOUR & CO. v. ALTON R. CO.
195

Opinion of the Court

a part of that reasonable transportation rate determination of which is committed to the jurisdiction of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. And before such
long-standing transportation customs can be held illegal,
it is of course necessary that evidence be heard.
Third. If the railroad delivers through the public stock
yards, and petitioner's position is sustained, the railroad
must necessarily absorb the additional charge. Under
the complaint, this would be upon the basis that the
railroad had not fully performed its transportation service. Yet the tariff charges for shipping petitioner's livestoc4 were based upon the long-standing custom in which
petitioner and the other packers had acquiesced. The
railroad is entitled to receive and the shipper is required
under the statute to pay a just and reasonable rate. A
court judgment in favor of petitioner would reduce the
compensation of the railroads for the performance of
their services, and would in effect constitute a readjustment of their rate schedules.
Fourth. If, as petitioner insists, it is the duty of the
.railroads to provide terminal facilities which they do not
now own, possess or control, a drastic change might have
to be accomplished by them. Property might have to be
'acquired, expensive facilities might have to be secured,
and correspondingly, rates might have to be adjusted.
The need.for such steps raises a transportation problem
of the greatest magnitude, involving many intricate con.'siderations such as must always play a part in evaluating a claim that new depots and facilities are necessary.
Fifth. The complaint shows that there is no provision
in the tariff which would authorize the railroads to make
refunds to petitioner of those charges paid
by petitionerto, the Stock Yards Company. Such refunds, if made,
would be in the nature of special allowances iot authorized by the tariff. A court's adjudication of this questionin this case would not uniformly benefit all shippers
-is

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

for whom respondents have transported livestock'
Whether or not such a refund would amount to a discrimination should be determined by studies such as those
the Interstate Commerce Commission is especially empowered to make.
Sixth. The complaint alleges that petitioner is willing
to accept delivery at any point in the station area. What
the station area embraces is not defined. Whether there
is property in the area on which the railroads could erect
pens is not shown. To decide this issue would require
a court to define the boundaries, of a station named in a
tariff approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The complexities of the situation here presented
are
graphically illustrated in the companion case of Swift
& Co. v. Alton R. Co., 238 I. C. C. 179. Swift, one of
Armour's competitors, took its petition for alteration of
the same long-standing practice directly to the Commission. That expert body found it a necessary prerequisite
to decision to have a trial examiner conduct extensive
hearings, compiling in the process a record of 5 volumes,
1147 pages, and numerous exhibits.'
The principles making up the so-called primary jurisdiction doctrine are well settled. This is obviously a
case for their application. The decision below is accordingly
Affirmed.

"For instances where this Court has referred 'to the Commission's reports as indicative of the administrative problems involved
in particular cases, see Loomis v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 240 U. S.
43, 50-51; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477, 483.

