450

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

312 U. S.

BERRY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 336. Argued February 4, 1941.-Decided March 3, 1941.
1. In this suit against the United States to recover total permanent
disability benefits undler policies of War Risk Insurance, held
that the District Court properly denied the Government's motion
for a directed verdict, and that the evidence sustained the verdict
for the plaintiff. P. 451.
2. Rule 50 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure goes farther than
the old practice in that district judges, under certain circumstances,
are now expressly declared to have the right (but not the mandatory duty) to enter a judgment contrary to the jury's verdict
without granting a new trial; but it has not taken away from
juries and given to judges any part of the exclusive power of
juries to weigh evidence and determine contested issues of fact.
P. 452.
3. The jury properly could have found from the evidence in this
case that, as a result of injuries suffered in the World War, and
while his policies of War Risk Insurance were in force, the plaintiff became totally and permanently disabled within the meaning
of the policies and has since remained so, in that he has not
since been able, and will not again be able, to work with any
reasonable regularity at any substantially gainful employment.
P. 453.
To justify a finding, of total and permanent disability, it is not
necessary that the insured be bedridden and helpless, or that he
should not have undertaken any work of any kind. P. 455.
4. That thirteen years elapsed before suit was brought in this case
does not bar recovery, but is a circumstance to be weighed by
the jury with the other evidence. P. 456.
111 F. 2d 615, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 633, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the plaintiff in a suit upon policies of War
Risk Insurance.

BERRY v. UNITED STATES.
450

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Ernest W. Gibson, Jr. and C. L. Dawson for
petitioner.
Mr. Warner W. Gardner, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle and Messrs. Julius C. Martin and Wilbur C.
Pickett were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE

BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner sued the United States in a federal district
court, alleging that he became totally and permanently
disabled prior to December 1, 1919, while his policies
of War Risk Insurance were in force and effect.' Trial
was had and evidence heard. The trial judge declined
to grant the government's request for a directed verdict
in its favor. The jury found for petitioner. The government, without having made any motion either for a
new trial or for judgment notwithstanding the verdict,
took the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Upon review that court held plaintiff had not produced sufficient
evidence to justify submission of the cause to the jury.
The court did not,-however, remand the case to the District Court for further proceedings, but reversed the
judgment and dismissed the cause of action.2
The petition for certiorari presented two questions:
First, whether there was sufficient evidence to sustain the
verdict; Second, whether the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred in dismissing the cause instead of remanding it
for a new trial. This second question invoked our juris1

Though petitioner alleged that his policies were in effect until

December 1, 1919, in reality it was necessary for him to show that
he became totally and permanently disabled prior to September 1,
1919. This variance in dates is not material, however.
2111 F. 2d 615.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

diction in order to obtain an authoritative construction
of subdivision (b) of Rule 50 of the Rules of Civil Procedure. In part that subdivision provides: "Whenever a
motion for a directed verdict made at the close of all the
evidence is denied or for any reason is not granted, the
court is deemed to have submitted the action to the jury
subject to a later determination of the legal questions
raised by the motion. Within 10 days after the reception of a verdict, a party who has moved for a directed
verdict may move to have the verdict and any judgment
entered thereon set aside and to have judgment entered
in accordance with his motion for a directed verdict;
.
Since the government made no such motion
within 10 days after the verdict, petitioner urged here
that the Circuit Court of Appeals was without power to
dismiss the cause but should have remanded it for a
new trial. But while this important point, upon which
the Circuit Courts of Appeals are not in complete agreement,3 is one of the two questions upon which the petition for certiorari rested, there is no occasion for us to
reach it here. For we find that there was sufficient evidence to sustain the jury's verdict, and we hold that the
District Court properly denied the government's motion
for a directed verdict in its favor.
Rule 50 (b) goes further than the old practice 4 in that
district judges, under certain circumstances, are now expressly declared to have the right (but not the mandatory
duty) to enter a judgment contrary to the jury's verdict
Compare Conway v. O'Brien, III F. 2d 611, 613 (C.C. A. 2d),
reversed, post, p. 492, with Pruitt v. Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire
Ins. Co., 112 F. 2d 140, 143 (C. C. A. 5th). And see United States
v. Halliday, 116 F. 2d 812 (C. C. A. 4th).
'Compare Slocum v. New York Life Insurance Co., 228 U. S. 364,
with Baltimore & Carolina Line v. Redman, 295 U. S. 654.

BERRY v. UNITED STATES.
450

Opinion of the Court.

without granting a new trial.5 But that rule has not
taken away from juries and given to judges any part of
the exclusive power of juries to weigh evidence and determine contested issues of factV--a jury being the constitutional tribunal provided for trying facts in courts
of law. Here, although there was evidence from which
a jury could have reached a contrary conclusion, there
was testimony from which a jury could have found
these to be the facts: Petitioner suffered injuries on
June 16, 1918, while serving in the front lines in France.
On that date, in the early morning hours, bits of shrapnel
wounded him in the right arm, right shoulder, right hip
and in front of the right ear. He was helped to a dugout by another soldier. There he found others who were
wounded. About fifteen minutes after he arrived at the
dugout, another shell struck, immediately in front of the
dugout door. All the nine or ten men present were
either killed outright or were so badly wounded that they
were unable to leave. Petitioner's left leg was practically cut off below the knee. He twisted a part of his
wrapped leggings around his wound to stop the bleeding.
About six and one-half hours later he was taken on a

stretcher and carried back to the First Aid Station.
There his wounds were temporarily dressed. After another six or seven hours, he was carried to the hospital.
Shortly thereafter an operation followed and his left leg
was removed. He underwent several operations in the
'The relevant portion of the rule provides: "If a verdict was returned the court may allow the judgment to stand or may reopen
the judgment and either order a new trial or direct the entry of
judgment as if the requested verdict had been directed."
'See Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 94; Richmond & Danville
R. Co. v. Powers, 149 U. S. 43, 45; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cox,
145 U. S. 593, 606; Railroad Co. v. tout, 17 Wall. 657, 663.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

hospitals in France, leaving that country for the United
States in August of 1918 and arriving in Boston on September 7. He was treated in hospitals in the United
States until about Christmas, 1918. During the years
between the time of the injury and the time of the trial,
petitioner suffered repeatedly from abscesses and blisters
on the stump of his left leg, and his right leg has caused
him inconvenience, suffering and disability. In addition
his nervous system has shown serious and continuous
impairment, so much so that the Circuit Court of Appeals properly said, "Certain it is that he was neurasthenic, and had uncontrollable accesses of terror at any
explosion, or even during thunderstorms." There has
never been a time since his injuries when he could do
work which required him to stand upon or use the stump
without having it blistered, chafed or abscessed within
two days. Several physicians who examined and treated
him through the years were of opinion that he would
never be able to work continuously at a gainful occupation because of his condition, and that he had never been
able so to work since the wound was received. The government gave him vocational tr'aining both in photography and in automobile repair work. He tried both, but
from his own evidence, corroborated by that of his employers in many instances, the jury could have found
that in spite of his determination to succeed, he was physically unable to do so. He bought a farm. He was compelled to depend on the work of his own family and
relatives in this undertaking, but the venture was a
failure and he lost the farm. He tried to operate a
garage in partnership with another. In this, too, he was
unsuccessful, and the jury could have found that his failure was attributable to his physical disabilities. For a
time he was engaged as a salesman of aluminum cooking
utensils. But here again the jury could have found that
his contribution to the venture was small. For, as else-

BERRY v. UNITED STATES.
450

Opinion of the Court.

where, there was testimony tending to show that it was a
member of his family, in this instance his wife, whose
labors made it possible for this activity to be carried on.
Taking the evidence as a whole, the jurors, who heard the
witnesses and personally examined the petitioner's
wounds, could fairly have reached the conclusion that
since his injuries petitioner never had been able, and
would not be able thereafter, to work with any reasonable degree of regularity at any substantially gainful
employment. The trial judge, who had the same opportunity as the jury to hear the witnesses, denied the government's motion for a directed verdict and correctly
instructed the jury what they must find from the evidence in order to return a verdict for petitioner."
It was not necessary that petitioner be bedridden,
wholly helpless, or that he should abandon every possible effort to work in order for the jury to find that he
was totally and permanently disabled.' It cannot be
doubted that if petitioner had refrained from trying to
'The government expressed satisfaction with the trial judge's
charge, which, as to total and permanent disability, contained this
statement: "A total disability is any physical or nervous injury
which makes it impossible for a person to follow continuously a
substantially gainful occupation at any kind of work for which he
was competent or qualified, physically and mentally, or for which
he could qualify himself by a reasonable amount of study and training. The word 'total' as applied to 'disability' does not necessarily
mean incapacitated to do any work at all. The word 'continuously'
means with reasonable regularity. It does not preclude periods of
disability which are ordinarily incident to activities of persons in
generally sound health, for nearly all persons are at times temporarily, incapacitated by injuries, or poor health, from carrying
on their occupations. If Berry was able to follow a gainful occupation only spasmodically, with frequent interruptions, due to his
injuries, and his shock, he was totally disabled. A disability is permanent when it is of such a nature that it is reasonably certain
it will continue throughout a person's lifetime."
'Lumbra v. United States, 290 U. S. 551, 559-560.

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

do any work at all, and the same evidence of physical
impairment which appears in this record had been offered, a jury could have properly found him totally and
permanently disabled. And the jury could have found
that his efforts to work-all of which sooner or later resulted in failure-were made not because of his ability
to work but because of his unwillingness to live a life of
idleness, even though totally and permanently disabled
within the meaning of his policies.' Nor does the fact
that he waited thirteen years before bringing suit stand
as an insuperable barrier to his recovery. His case was
not barred by any statute of limitations. Whatever
weight the jury should have given to the circumstance
of petitioner's delay in filing his claim, that weight was
still for their consideration in connection with all the
other evidence in the case.
There was evidence from which a jury could reach the
conclusion that petitioner was totally and permanently
disabled. That was enough. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed, and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.

'See United States v. Rice, 72 F. 2d 676, 677; Nicolay v. United
States, 51 F. 2d 170, 173; United States v. Lawson, 50 F. 2d 646,
651; United States v. Godfrey, 47 F. 2d 126, 127; United States v.
Phillips, 44 F. 2d 689, 691.

