HARRISON v. SCHAFFNER.
Opinion of the Court.

HARRISON, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SCHAFFNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 437.

FOR THE

Argued March 4, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

The life beneficiary of a trust assigned to her children specified amounts
in dollars from the income of the trust for the year following the
assignment. Held that the amount assigned, which was paid by
the trustees to the assignees, was taxable as income to the assignor.

RevenueAct, 1928, §§ 22 (a), 161 (a), 162 (b). P. 582.
113 F. 2d 449, reversed.

311 U. S. 638, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for the above-named respondent in a suit to
recover money exacted as taxes.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor GeneralBiddle,
Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. Sewall
Key and Edward First were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Herbert A. Friedlich, with whom Messrs. Carl
Meyer and Louis A. Kohn were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In December, 1929, respondent, the life beneficiary of
a testamentary trust, "assigned" to certain of her children specified amounts in dollars from the income of
the trust for the year following the assignment. She
made a like assignment to her children and a son-in-law
in November, 1930. The question for decision is
whether, under the applicable 1928 Revenue Act, 45 Stat.
791, the assigned income, which was paid by the trustees
to the several assignees, is taxable as such to the assignor
or to the assignees.
The Commissioner ruled that the income was that of

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

the life beneficiary and assessed a deficiency against her
for the calendar years 1929 and 1931, which she paid.
In the present suit to recover the tax paid as illegally
exacted the district court below gave judgment for the
taxpayer, which the Court of Appeals affirmed. 113 F.
2d 449. We granted certiorari, 311 U. S. 638, to resolve
an alleged conflict in principle of the decision below with
those in Lucas v. Earl,281 U. S. 111; Burnet v. Leininger,
285 U. S. 136, and Heivering v. Clifford, 309 U. S.331.
Since granting certiorari we have held, following the
reasoning of Lucas v. Earl, supra, that one who is entitled to receive, at a future date, interest or compensation for services and who makes a gift of it by an anticipatory assignment, realizes taxable income quite as much
as if he had collected the income and paid it over to the
object of his bounty. Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112;
Helvering v. Eubank, 311 U. S. 122. Decision in these
cases was rested on the- principle that the power to dispose of income is the equivalent of ownership of it and
that the exercise of the power to procure its payment to
another, whether to pay a debt or to make a gift, is
within the reach of the statute taxing income "derived
from any source whatever." In the light of our opinions
in these cases the narrow question presented by this
record is whether itmakes any difference in the application of the taxing statute that the gift is accomplished
by the anticipatory assignment of trust income rather
than of interest, dividends, rents and the like which are
payable to the donor.
Respondent, recognizing that the practical consequences of a gift by assignment, in advance, of a year's
income from the trust, are, so far as the use and enjoyment of the income are concerned, no different from
those of the gift by assignment of interest or wages, rests
his case on technical distinctions affecting the conveyanc-

HARRISON v. SCHAFFNER.
579

581

Opinion of the Court.

ing of equitable interests. It is said that since by the
assignment of trust income the assignee acquires an
equitable right to an accounting by the trustee which, for
many purposes, is treated by courts of equity as a present
equitable estate in the trhst property, it follows that each
assignee in the present case is a donee of an interest in
the trust property for the term of a year and is thus the
recipient of income from his own property which is taxable to him rather than to the donor. See Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5.
We lay to one side the argument which the Government could have made that the assignments were no
more than an attempt to charge the specified payments
upon the whole income which could pass no present interest in the trust property. See Scott on Trusts, §§ 10.1,
10.6, 29, 30. For we think that the operation of the
statutes taxing income is not dependent upon such "attenuated subtleties," but rather on the import and reasonable construction of the taxing act. Lucas v. Earl,
supra, 114.
Section 22 (a) of the 1928 Revenue Act provides,
"'Gross income' includes gains, profits, and income derived from . . . interest, rent, dividends, securities or
the transactions of any business carried on for gain or
profit, or gains or profits, and income derived from any
source whatever." By §§ 161 (a) and 162 (b) the tax
is laid upon the income "of any kind of property held in
trust," and income of a trust for the taxable year which
is to be distributed to the beneficiaries is to be taxed to
them "whether distributed to them or not." In construing these and like provisions in other revenue acts we
have uniformly held that they are not so much concerned
with the refinements of title as with the actual comtaxed and the actual
mand over the income which is.
benefit for which the tax is paid. See Corliss v. Bowers,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

281 U. S. 376; Lucas v. Earl, supra; Helvering v. Horst,
supra; Helvering v. Eubank, supra; Helvering v. Clifford,
supra. It was for that reason that in each of those cases
it was held that one vested with the right to receive income did not escape the tax by any kind of anticipatory
arrangement, however skillfully devised, by which he
procures payment of it to another, since, by the exercise
of his power to command the income, he enjoys the
benefit of the income on which the tax is laid.
Those decisions are controlling here. Taxation is a
practical matter and those practical considerations which
support the treatment of the disposition of one's income
by way of gift as a realization of the income to the donor
are the same whether the income be from a trust or
from shares of stock or bonds which he owns. It is true,
as respondent argues, that where the beneficiary of a
trust had assigned a share of the income to another for
life without retaining any form of control over the interest assigned, this Court construed the assignment as a
transfer in praesenti to the donee, of a life interest in
the corpus of the trust property, and held in consequence
that the income thereafter paid to the donee was taxable
to him and not the donor. Blair v. Commissioner, supra.
But we think it quite another matter to say that the
beneficiary of a trust who makes a single gift of a sum
of money payable out of the income of the trust does
not realize income when the gift is effectuated by payment, or that he escapes the tax by attempting to clothe
the transaction in the guise of a transfer of trust property
rather than the transfer of income, where that is its
obvious purpose and effect. We think that the gift by a
beneficiary of a trust of some part of the income derived
from the trust property for the period of a day, a month
or a year involves no such substantial disposition of the
trust property as to camouflage the reality that he is

HARRISON v. SCHAFFNER.
579

Opinion of the Court.

enjoying the benefit of the income from the trust of
which he continues to be the beneficiary, quite- as much
as he enjoys the benefits of interest or wages which he
gives away as in the Horst and Eubank cases. Even
though the gift of income be in form accomplished by
the temporary disposition of the donor's property which
produces the income, the donor retaining every other
substantial interest in it, we have not allowed the form to
obscure the reality. Income which the donor gives away
through the medium of a short term trust created for the
benefit of the donee is nevertheless income taxable to
the donor. Helvering v. Clifford, supra; Hormel v. Helvering, ante, p. 552. We perceive no difference, so far as
the construction and application of the Revenue Act is
concerned, between a gift of income in a specified amount
by the creation of a trust for a year, see Hormel v. Helvering, supra, and the assignment by the beneficiary of
a trust already created of a like amount from its income
for a year.
Nor are we troubled by the logical difficulties of drawing the line between a gift of an equitable interest in
property for life effected by a gift for life of a share of
the income of the trust and the gift of the income or a
part of it for the period of a year as in this case. "Drawing the line" is a recurrent difficulty in those fields of the
law where differences in degree produce ultimate differences in kind. See Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S. 161, 168.
It is enough that we find in the present case that the
taxpayer, in point of substance, has parted with no substantial interest in property other than the specified
payments of income which, like other gifts of income,
are taxable to the donor. Unless in the meantime the
difficulty be resolved by statute or treasury regulation,
we leave it to future judicial decisions to determine precisely where the line shall be drawn between gifts of

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

income-producing property and gifts of income from
property of which the donor remains the owner, for all
substantial and practical purposes. Cf. Helvering v.
Clifford, supra.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. SHERWOOD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 500.

Argued March 6, 7, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

A New York court, acting under authority of § 795 of the New York
Civil Practice Act, made an order authorizing a judgment creditor
to sue under the Tucker Act, to recover damages from the United
States for breach of its contract with the. judgment debtor, the
order directing that out of the recovery the judgment creditor should
be entitled to a sum sufficient to satisfy his judgment with interest,
costs, etc. The state law cited makes the judgment debtor a necessary party and authorizes him in any suit so brought to attack the
validity of the order and of the judgment on which it is founded.
Held:
1. That a suit brought accordingly against the United States and
the judgment debtor was not within the jurisdiction of the federal
court. P. 588.
2. A court has no jurisdiction of a suit against the United States
to which the United States has not consented. P. 587.
3. Jurisdiction of a federal court to award damages for breach
of contract by the United States is defined by the Tucker Act and
is restricted to suits against the Government alone; if adjudication
of the plaintiff's right to maintain the suit as against a private
party is prerequisite to its prosecution against the United States,
the suit must bedismissed. P. 588.
4. The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure do not authorize any
suit against the United States to which it has not otherwise consented.
P. 589.
5. The Act of June 19, 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, 28 U. S. C. 723,
authorizing this Court to prescribe rules of procedure in civil actions
gave it no authority to modify, abridge or enlarge the substantive

