592

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

Co. v. United States, 18 F. Supp. 87.

312 U. S.

The Government's

consent to litigate such issues is hardly to be inferred from
its consent to be sued upon a claim for damages for breach

of contract. Cf. National Surety Co. v. Washington Iron
Works, 243 F. 260.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE, ST.
PAUL & PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 535. Argued March 10, 11, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.
1. A railroad company whose road traverses an embankment built
up from low-water mark in the bed of a navigable stream to a
level above that of ordinary high water is not entitled, under the
Fifth Amendment, to claim compensation from the United States
for additional cost of protecting the embankment necessitated by
the action of the Government in raising the water level above
natural high-water mark, by means of a dam, for the purpose
of improving navigation. So held, although the embankment was
remote from the natural channel and from the course of navigation
through the pool formed by the dam and did not obstruct navigation. Pp. 593, 596.
2. United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, in part overruled. P. 597.
3. The power of the Government over navigation covers the entire
bed of a navigable stream, including all lands below ordinary highwater mark. Whether title to the bed is retained by the State
or is in the riparian owner, the rights of the title-holder are
subservient to this dominant easement. P. 596.
113 F. 2d 919, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 642, to review the affirmance of a

judgment on a verdict awarding compensation to the
railroad company and to the telegraph company against
the United States in a condemnation proceeding.

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO.
592

593

Opinion of the Court.

Assistant Attorney General Littell, with whom Solicitor General Biddle and Mr. Vernon L. Wilkinson were on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. A. C. Erdall, with whom Messrs. F. W. Root, A.
N. Whitlock, and C. S. Jefferson were on the brief, for
respondents:
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether the United States
must compensate a riparian owner for injury to structures
located between high and low water marks, where the damage is caused by the raising of the water level in a navigable
stream for the improvement of navigation. The importance of the question, and a conflict in the decisions of
this court, led to the grant of certiorari.
The tracks of the respondent railroad and the pole lines
of the respondent telegraph company in Wabasha and
Winona counties, Minnesota, as relocated in 1910, are,
in part, on an embankment on the westerly side of the
Mississippi River. The embankment was adequately riprapped, where necessary, to protect it in times of high
water.
In the prosecution of a project for the improvement
of navigation the United States has been, and is, engaged
in constructing a series of locks and dams in the upper
reaches of the Mississippi. One of the dams authorized
by Act of Congress ' raises the level of the river and creates
a pool which inundates bottom lands along the west bank.
In 1933 the Government instituted condemnation proceedings to acquire the right to back water across the
respondents' right of way and against their embankment.
Since the dam raises the water level from 5.6 to 7.5 feet
Rivers and Harbors Act of July 3, 1930, c. 847, 46 Stat. 918, 927.
301335--41-38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

above ordinary high-water mark, the respondents were
compelled at certain points to add additional riprap to
prevent damage to their embankment.
At the trial in the condemnation proceeding the Government offered to prove that four segments of the embankment lie between the ordinary high and ordinary
low water marks of the river; are, therefore, subject to
the federal power to improve navigation; and that any
injury to them by additional flooding is an incident of
the exercise of the power and not the subject of compensation. The respondents objected to the offer as
immaterial for the reason that neither before nor after
the, improvement did the embankment constitute an
obstruction or menace to navigation and its maintenance
was and is, therefore, a right of private property, the
injury to which, in the prosecution of the federal project,
entitled the owner to compensation.
The District Court rejected the offer of proof. Thereupon the Government moved to dismiss from the proceedings all question of compensation for the four encroachment areas where the embankment was claimed
to be located between high and low water marks. The
motion was denied. A verdict and judgment ensued for
damages to the entire length of the embankment both
where it was admitted to be located on fast land and
where it was claimed to lie between high and low water
marks. Each party appealed. Thereafter, by stipulation, all questions, except that touching the four segments of the embankment which the Government
claimed were located between high and low water marks,
were eliminated from the cause. It was stipulated by
the respondents that one of the four segments in question was so located, but as to the other three the parties
are in disagreement. The Court of Appeals, for the purpose of decision, assumed that all four were so located
but held, nevertheless; that the Government was bound

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO.
592

Opinion of the Court.

to compensate the respondents for damage to all of2 them,
and affirmed the judgment of the District Court.
Certain matters are not in dispute. The Mississippi
Piver at the points in question is navigable. The respondent railroad is the riparian owner and, as such, its
title extends to ordinary- low-water mark. The natural
channel and the course of navigation through the pool
formed by the dam lie at a considerable. distance from
the embankment, which does not, and will not, obstruct
The lands lying
or interfere with actual navigation.
between the embankment and the natural channel were
lowlands which, prior to the improvement, were to a
great extent covered with trees and scrub.
The. respondents assert that the power of the Government to take private lands for the improvement of navigation is confined to the natural widths, levels, and flows
of the river and that if more is taken compensation must
be made. Their position is that the embankment can
be injured without compensation only if it constitutes
an encroachment and thus a hindrance or obstruction to
actual navigation. The Government, on the other hand,
insists that its power is not confined to the mere making
or clearing of channels and removing hindrances and
obstructions to their navigation, but embraces the exercise of every appropriate means for the improvement of
navigable capacity; and that, in the provision of any such
means, it is entitled to deal with and alter the level of
the stream to any extent up to ordinary high-water mark
without being answerable to riparian owners for injury
to structures lying below that line.
Commerce, the regulation of which between the states
is committed by the Constitution to Congress, includes
navigation. "The power to regulate commerce compre'113 F. 2d 919.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

hends the control for that purpose, and to the extent
necessary, of all the navigable waters of the United
States which are accessible from a State other than those
in which they lie. For this purpose they are the public
property of the nation, and subject to all the requisite
And the 'determination of
legislation by Congress."''
of navigable caimprovement
the necessity for a given
pacity, and the character and extent of it, is for Congress
alone.' Whether, under local law, the title to the bed
of the stream is retained by the State or the title of the
riparian owner extends to the thread of the stream, or,
as in this case, to low-water mark,5 the rights of the title
holder are subordinate to the dominant power of the
federal Government in respect of navigation.'
The power of Congress extends not only to keeping
clear the channels of interstate navigation by the prohibition or removal of actual obstructions located by the
riparian owner, or others, but comprehends as well the
power to improve and enlarge their navigability
The bed of a river is "that portion of its soil which is
alternately covered and left bare, as there may be an increase or diminution in the supply of water, and which
is adequate to contain it at its average and mean stage
during the entire year, without reference to the extraordinary freshets of the winter or- spring, or the extreme
droughts of the summer or autumn."
The dominant power of the federal Government, as has
'Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 724.
'Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 162.
'Morrill v. St. Anthony Falls Water Power Co., 26 Minn. 222; 2

N. W. 842.
'Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, 271, 272.
United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Co., 229 U. S. 53, 62; New
Jersey v. Sargent, 169 U. S. 328, 337; United States v. Appalachian
Electric Power Co., 311 U. S. 377.
"Alabama v. Georgia, 23 How. 505, 515.

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO.
592

597

Opinion of the Court.

been repeatedly held, extends to the entire bed of a stream,
which includes the lands below ordinary high-water mark.
The exercise of the power within these limits is not an
invasion of any private property right in such lands for
which the United States must make compensation.' The
damage sustained results not from a taking of the riparian
owner's property in the stream bed, but from the lawful
exercise of a power to which that property has always been
subject.
The respondents admit that this is the settled rule but
insist that it has been applied only in cases where the
control of the Government was exercised to extend the
area of practicable navigation either by constructing channels for actual use or by removing obstructions to navigation. They assert, and the court below was of opinion,
that United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, and United
States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, sanction a different principle
where the improvement consists in the raising of the level
of a stream to the injury of structures erected by the
riparian owner between high and low water mark.
What was said in the Cress case must be confined to
the facts there disclosed. In that case, the Government's
improvement-in a navigable stream resulted in the flooding
of the plaintiff's land in and adjacent to a non-navigable
stream. The owners of the land along and under the bed
of the stream were held entitled to compensation foi the
damage to their lands. The question here presented was
not discussed in the opinion.
In the Lynah case the plaintiff's rice plantation was
rendered worthless by the Government's raising the water
in the Savannah River. Three questions were considered
'Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 143, 144; Greenleaf Lumber
Co. v. Garrison,237 U. S. 251, 263; Willink v. United States, 240 U. S.
572, 580; Delaware R. Co. v. Weeks, 293 F. 114, 120; Barr v. Spalding,
46 F. 2d 798, 800; Marret v. United States, 82 Ct, Cls. 1, 13; United
States v. Meyer, 113 F. 2d 387, 398.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

at length by this Court: Whether the trial court (the then
Circuit Court) had jurisdiction; whether there was a taking of plaintiff's property; and whether the Government
was bound to compensate therefor. All were answered in
the affirmative. Applying earlier decisions it was held
that the permanent flooding of land adjacent to a stream
in the improvement of navigation, pursuant to statutory.
authority, amounted to a taking and that the court had
jurisdiction to award compensation upon the footing of
an implied contract of the Government to pay for what
it took. But as the court below points out, the quoted
findings show, and the opinion adverted to the fact, that
the plantation lay in part between the high and low water
lines, and this Court held that the flooding constituted a
taking of the whole, for which compensation was due under
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. Moreover,
three justices based -their dissent largely on the fact that
compensation was awarded for injury to lands lying below
high-water mark. We are bound, therefore, to determine
whether we shall follow that decision in respect of the
issue involved in the instant case. The decision was by
a divided court; and later, in a similar case, there was an
affirmance by an equally divided court." The case has
often been cited as authority for the settled doctrine that
an authorized taking of property for public use gives rise
to an implied promise to pay just compensation. But we
think this Court has never followed it as a binding decision that compensation is due for injury or destruction
of a riparian owner's property located in the bed of a
navigable stream. And we think that, so far as it sanctions such a principle, it is in irreconcilable conflict with
our later decisions " and cannot be considered as expressing
the law.
"oUnited States v. Heyuard, 250 U. S. 633.
" See cases cited in Note 9 supra.

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO.

599

Opinion of the Court.

592

It is not true, as respondents maintain, that only struc-

tares in the bed of a navigable stream which obstruct or
adversely affect navigation may be injured or destroyed
without compensation by a federal improvement of navigable capacity. On the contrary, any structure is placed
in the bed of a stream at the risk that it may be so injured
or destroyed; and the right to compensation does not depend on the absence of physical interference with navigation. The ratio decidendi and the circumstances disclosed in numerous cases lead inevitably to this conclusion."
The respondents claim that two of the sections of embankment in question not only axe above ordinary highwater mark but also claim that they abut, not on the
Mississippi River, but on a non-navigable tributary; andthat another, though along the bank of the river, is at
or above the ordinary high-water line. The Government
disagrees. These issues of fact remain for solution by
the District Court.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.

See the cases cited in Note 9, and United States v. ChandlerDunbar Co., 229 U. S. 53, 70; Lewis Blue Point Oyster Co. v. Briggs,
229 U. S. 82, 86-88.
2

