552

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Parties.

312 U. S.

HORMEL v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 257. Argued March 3, 1941.-Decided March 17, 1941.
1. Upon review of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals that
neither under § 166 nor § 167 of the Revenue Act of 1934 was
the income of the trusts here involved taxable to the grantor, the
Circuit Court of Appeals-Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331,
having in the meantime been decided by this Court-could properly consider the question of the grantor's liability under § 22 (a)
of the Act, even though the Commissioner had not relied on *that
section in the proceeding before the Board. Pp. 554, 559.
2. Consideration of that question by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
in the circumstances of this case, is consistent with -its statutory
authority in reviewing decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals to
modify, reverse or remand, "as justice may require," decisions
which are not in accordance with law. P. 556.
3. A rigid and undeviating 'judicially declared practice whereby
courts of review would invariably and under all circumstances
decline to consider all questions which had not previously been
specifically urged would be out of harmony with the policy that
rules of procedure and practice should promote, not defeat, the
ends of justice. P. 557.
4. The cause is remanded in order that the applicability of § 22 (a)
may be considered in the light of such evidence touching that
issue as may be offered by the taxpayer. P. 560.
111 F. 2d 1, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 626, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 39 B. T. A. 244,
which set aside a determination of a deficiency in income
tax.

Messrs. George M. WolIson and R. C. Alderson for
petitioner.

HORMEL v. HELVERING.
552

Opinion of the Court.

Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
General Biddle and Messrs. Sewall Key, L. W. Post, and
William L. Cary were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered 'the opinion of the Court.

The Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed a deficiency against petitioner for failure to include in his
1934 and 1935 tax returns the income of three separate
trusts declared by him in 1934. Each of the declarationt
of trust recited that the beneficiaries were "Jay C. Hormel [petitioner himself], and Germaine D. Hormel, his
wife, as guardian for their son," a different son being
designated by each trust instrument. Each trust estate
consisted of bhares of stock in Geo. A. Hormel & Co.,
of which petitioner was an officer. Petitioner named
himself and another as co-trustees; all dividends from
each trust estate, up to $2000 a year, were to be paid
to petitioner's wife as guardian for the son named in the
particular trust instrument, and any excess over $2000
was to be paid to petitioner; the trusts were to expire
automatically after three years, or upon the death of
petitioner, or upon the death of the named son, whichever event should occur first; upon expiration of each
trust, the entire principal should be the property of
petitioner, his legatees, devisees, or heirs; petitioner and
his wife (as guardian) had the power to remove petitioner's co-trustee at any time, and to choose a successor;
the co-trustees could appoint proxies to exercise voting
rights over the shares of stock making up the trust
estates, and could sell the securities deposited and substitute others; it was provided that no title to the trust
estates should vest in petitioner's wife, as guardian, or
in his sons, and it was further provided that the wife
and sons should have no power "to sell, transfer, encumber or in any manner anticipate or dispose of any

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

interest in the trust estate"; and, finally, the trust instruments stated that the co-trustees were to be responsible
for loss only upon wilful and deliberate violations of
their duties.
All of the trust income for the years in question was
distributed to petitioner's wife as guardian, who reported
it to the federal government as guardianship income.
Petitioner, in his individual returns, did not include it.
The Commissioner, taking the position that petitioner
should have included the trust income in his individual
returns, assessed a deficiency against him, asserting that
the trusts were "revocable" and the income therefore
petitioner's within the meaning of § 166 of the Revenue
Act of 1934.' The Board of Tax Appeals decided against
the Commissioner, holding that the income in question
was taxable to petitioner neither under § 166 nor 167,2
the two sections expressly relied on by the Commissioner
before the Board. In the Circuit Court of Appeals, the
Commissioner abandoned reliance on § 166, urged that
the Board was in error as to taxability under § 167, and
'"Where at any time the power to revest in the grantor title to
any part of the corpus of the trust is vested"(1) in the grantor, either alone or in conjunction with any person
not having a substantial adverse interest in the disposition of such
part of the corpus or the income therefrom, or
"(2) in any person not having a substantial adverse interest in
the disposition of such part of the corpus or the income therefrom,
then the income of such, part 'of the trust shall be included in
computing the net income of the grantor."
"Section 167 reads in part as follows: "(a) Where any part of
the income of a trust"(1) is, or in the discretion of the grantor or of any person not
having a substantial adverse interest in the disposition of such part
of the income may be, held or accumulated for future distribution
to the grantor; or
"(2) may, in the discretion of the grantor or of any person not
having a substantial adverse interest in the disposition of such part
of the income, be distributed to the grantor; . . ."

IORMEL v. HELVERING.
552

Opinion of the Court.

argued that in any event the income was taxable to petitioner under § 22 (a).' -The taxpayer argued that the
applicability of § 22 (a) was not open for consideration,
inasmuch as that section had not been relied on before
the Board. The Circuit Court of Appeals, though agreein& with the Board as to non-taxability under §§ 166 and
167, nevertheless ruled that § 22 (a) could properly be
considered, and held the income taxable to petitioner
under that section. Because of a conflict among the
Circuit Courts of Appeals on the propriety of considering
§ 22 (a) under these circumstances,4 we granted certiorari. 311 U. S. 626. Two questions are presented for
our decision: First, Was the court below correct in holding that § 22 (a) should be considered? Second, If so,
was the court below justified in determining that the
income of these trusts was taxable to petitioner under
§ 22 (a)?
Petitioner in effect challenges the power of the Circuit
Court of Appeals to pass upon any questions other than
those which were directly and squarely presented in the
proceedings before the Board of Tax Appeals. That
court's authority to review decisions of the Board rests
on statutes, which provide in part that the Circuit Courts
of Appeals "have power to affirm or, if the decision of
the Board is not in accordance with law, to modify or
to reverse the decision of the Board, with or without
."'Gross income' includes gains, profits, and income derived from
salaries, wages, or compensation for personal service, of whatever
kind and in whatever form paid, or from professions, vocations,

trades, businesses, commerce, or sales, or dealings in property, whether
real or personal, growing out of the ownership or use of or interest
.in such property; also from interest, rent, dividends, securities,
or the transaction of, any business carried on for gain or profit, or
gains or profits and income derived from any source whatever. .. "
Cf., e. g., Helvering v. Hormel, 111 F. 2d 1 (the decision below),
with Helvering v. Richter, 114 F. 2d 452, reversed, post, p. 561.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

remanding the case for a rehearing, as justice may require." 26 U. S. C. § 1141 (c) (1) (Supp. 1939). In
general, it is the function of the Board to determine the
facts of a tax controversy on issues raised before it and
to apply the law to those facts; and it isthe function
of the reviewing court to decide whether the Board has
applied the correct rule of law.5
Ordinarily an appellate court does not give consideration to issues not raised below. For our procedural
scheme contemplates that parties shall come to issue in
the trial forum vested with authority to determine questions of fact. This is essential in order that parties may
have the opportunity to offer all the evidence they believe relevant to the issues which the trial tribunal is
alone competent to decide; it is equally essential in order
that litigants may not be surprised on appeal by final
decision there of i~sues upon which they have had no
opportunity to introduce evidence. And the basic
reasons which support this general principle applicable
to trial courts make it equally desirable that parties
should have an opportunity to offer evidence, on the
general issues involved in the less formal proceedings
before administrative agencies entrusted with the responsibility of fact finding. Recognition of this general
principle has caused this Court to say on a number of
occasions that the reviewing court should pass by, without decision, questions which were not urged before the
Board of Tax Appeals. But those cases do not announce
an inflexible practice as indeed they could not without
' The Board's rulings on questions of law, while not as conclusive
as its findings of' fact, are nevertheless persuasive, and it is desirable
that a reviewing court have the benefit of such rulings. See Helvering v. Wood, 309 U. S. 344, 349; Helvering v. Tex-Penn Oil Co.,
300 U. S. 481, 498. This is true not only of the Board of Tax
Appeals but of other administrative bodies as well. Cf. Federal
Trade Commission v. R. F, Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304, 314.

HORMEL v. HELVERING.
552

Opinion of the Court.

doing violence to the statutes which give to Circuit
Courts of Appeals reviewing decisions of the Board of
Tax Appeals the power to modify, reverse or remand
decisions not in accordance with law "as justice may
require." There may always be exceptional cases or
particular circumstances which will prompt a reviewing
or appellate court, where injustice might otherwim" result, to consider questions of law which were neither
pressed nor passed upon by the court or administrative
agency below. See Blair v. Oesterlein Machine Co.,
275 U. S. 220, 225.
Rules of practice and procedure axe devised to promote
the ends of justice, not to defeat them. A rigid and undeviating judicially declared practice under which courts
of review would invariably and under all circumstances
decline to consider all questions which had not previously been specifically urged would be out of harmony
with this policy. Orderly rules of procedure do not require sacrifice of the rules of fundamental justice. And
examination of the cases relied upon by petitioner discloses that this Court, in foll6wing in some cases, the
general principle sought to be invoked here by petitioner,
has been careful to point out the circumstances justifying application of the practice in the particular case.
Thus, for example, we held in Helvering v. Wood, 309
U. S. 344, 348-349, that the government could not present in this Court as a wholly new issue the applicability
of § 22 (a). But we there especially relied upon the
fact that the government, when the case was before the
Circuit Court of Appeals, had made an express waiver
of any reliance upon 22 (a). In Helvering v. Tex-Penn
Oil Co., 300 U. S. 481, 498, this Court declined to consider a newly presented question, but pointed out that it
had not been raised by the Commissioner either in his
notice of tax deficiency, in his appearances before the
Board of Tax Appeals or the Circuit Court of Appeals,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

or in his petition for certiorari to this Court. And in
General Utilities & Operating Co. v. Helvering, 296 U. S.
200, 206-207, though this Court said that the Circuit
Court of Appeals should not have considered a contention not presented to or ruled upon by the Board of Tax
Appeals, the statement was buttressed by adding that
the Circuit Court of Appeals had "made ,an inference of
fact directly in conflict with the stipulation of the parties
and the findings, for which we think the record affords
no support whatever. To remand the cause for further
findings would be futile. The Board could not properly
find anything which would assist the Commissioner's
cause." The plain implication of that decision was that
the cause would have been remanded to the Board of
Tax Appeals had the Court considered the newly raised
point to be of sufficient merit. These decisions aid
others like them, while recognizing the desirability and
existence of a general practice under which appellate
courts confine themselves to the issues raised below,
nevertheless do not lose sight of the fact that such
appellate practice should not be applied where the obvious result would be a plain miscarriage of justice.
Analogous in principle is the philosophy which underlies
this Court's decisions with relation ta appellate practices
in other cases: those in which it has been held that a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals can be supported in
the reviewing court on a new theory of law; ' those which
have been remanded because the lower courts failed to
give consideration to a phase of the case involving legal
theories not presented; ' and those in which there have
been judicial interpretations of existing law after decision below and pending appeal-interpretations which if
'E. g., Helvering v. Gowran, 302 U. S. 238, 246.
7E. g., United States v. Shelby Iron Co., 273 U. S. 571, 579; United
States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 184 U. S. 416, 423.

HORMEL v. IELVERING.
552

Opinion of the Court.

applied might have materially altered the result.8
Whether articulated or not, the philosophy underlying
the exceptions to the general practice is in accord with
the statutory authority given to courts reviewing decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals-decisions not in
accordance with law should be modified, reversed or reversed ahd remanded "as justice may require."
In accordance with this principle, we are of opinion
.that the court below should have given and properly
did give consideration to § 22 (a) in determining petitioner's tax liability. The Commissioner urged this
point before the Circuit Court of Appeals and has
strongly presented it here. At the time the Board of
Tax Appeals made its decision in this case, we had not
yet handed down our opinion in Helvering v. Clifford,
309 U. S. 331, in which we held that under § 22 (a) the
income of certain trusts was taxable to respondent. The
Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that there were
iocontrolling distinctions between the trusts created by
petitioner in this case and those created by Clifford.
Here, as there, control over the trusts was completely in
the hands of the taxpayer and his wife. For while petitioner's trust instruments showed a co-trustee acting
with petitioner, the same instruments also disclosed that
such co-trustee could be removed at any time by the
joint action of petitioner and his wife. ."To hold otherwise [i. e., that petitioner is not subject to the tax] would
be to treat the wife as a complete stranger; to let mere.
formalism obscure the normal consequences of family solidarity; and to -force concepts of ownership to be fashioned out of legal niceties which. may have little or no
significance in such household arrangements." ' As the
'E. g., Vandenbark v. Owens-Illinois Glass Co., 311 U. S. 538, and
cases there cited.
'Helve7ing v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331, 336-337.

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

record now stands we think the court below correctly
concluded that the trust income was taxable to petitioner
under the principles announced in the Clifford case.
Therefore to apply here the general principle of appellate
practice for which petitioner contends would result in
permitting him wholly to escape payment of a tax which
under the record before us he clearly owes. Thus viewed,
this is exactly the type of case where application of the
general practice would defeat rather than promote the
ends of justice, and the court below was right in so
holding.
. But the Board of Tax Appeals. neither found the facts
nor considered the applicability of 22 (a) in the light
of the Clifford case. Congress has entrusted the Board
with exclusive authority to determine disputed facts.
Under these circumstances we do not feel that petitioner
should be foreclosed from all opportunity to offer evidence before' the Board on this issue, however remote
may be his chance to take his case out of the Clifford
rule."0 Accordingly, the judgment of the lower court
reversing the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals is
affirmed, with directions to the Board of Tax Appeals
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Affirmed.

In this connection petitioner pointed out in his brief before
the Circuit Court of Appeals that "If any contention whatsoever
had at any time been suggested or considered as to Section 22, the
matter of the evidence introduced or to be introduced would have
-required further consideration."

