52

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

HINES, SECRETARY OF LABOR AND INDUSTRY
OF PENNSYLVANIA, ET AL. v. DAVIDOWITZ ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 22. Argued December 10, 11, 1940.-Decided January 20, 1941.
1. Applicable legislation enacted while the case was pending on
appeal will be enforced by the appellate court. P. 60.
2. Whatever power a State may have to restrict, limit, regulate and
register aliens as a distinct group, is subject to the national legislative and treaty-making powers. P. 68.
3. The Federal Alien Registration Act of 1940 forms, with the immigration and naturalization laws, a comprehensive and integrated
scheme for the regulation of aliens, and precludes the enforcement
of state alien registration Acts such as that adopted by Pennsylvania in 1939. P. 74.
The Pennsylvania Act requires every alien 18 years or over,
with certain exceptions, to register once each year; provide such
information as is required by the statute, plus any "other information and details" that the Department of Labor and Industry
may direct; pay $1 as an annual registration fee; receive an
alien identification card and carry it at all times; show the card
whenever it may be demanded by any police officer or agent
of the Department of Labor and Industry; and exhibit the card
as a condition precedent to registering a motor vehicle in his name
or obtaining a license to operate one. The Department of Labor
and Industry is charged with the duties of classifying the registrations for "the purpose of ready reference," and furnishing a
copy of the classification to the Pennsylvania Motor Police. Nonexempt aliens who fail to register are subject to a fine of not
more than $100 or imprisonment for not more than 60 days, or
both. For failure to carry an identification card or for failure
to show it upon proper demand, the punishment is a fine of not
more than $10, or imprisonment for not more than 10 days, or
both. P. 59.
The federal Act provides for a single registration of aliens 14
years of age and over; detaile'd information specified by the Act,
plus "such additional matters as may be prescribed by the Commissioner, with the approval of the Attorney General"; fingerprinting of all registrants; and secrecy of tle federal files, which

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Argument for Appellants.

can be "made available only to such persons or agencies as may
be designated by the Commissioner, with the approval of the
Attorney General." No requirement that aliens carry a registration card to be exhibited to police or others is embodied in the
law, and only the wilful failure to register is made a criminal
offense; punishment is fixed at a fine of not more than $1000,
imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or both. P. 60.
30 F. Supp. 470, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three
judges which restrained officials of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania from enforcing against an alien provisions of the Pennsylvania Alien Registration Act of
1939.

Mrs. M. Louise Rutherford and Mr. William S. Rial,
Deputy Attorneys General of Pennsylvania, with whom
Mr. Claude T. Reno, Attorney General, was on the brief,
for appellants.
The Act does not encroach upon a field reserved to
federal action. The right of the Federal Government
to control immigration, naturalization or interstate and
foreign commerce is not impaired by the registration of
aliens resident within the State, required by the Pennsylvania law.
It does not infringe the power to regulate interstate
and foreign commerce nor interfere with power over immigration and naturalization.
In general, the States may exercise any power possessed by them prior to the adoption of the Constitution,
unless the exercise of such power is expressly or by necessary implication prohibited thereby, or interferes with
the exercise of some power delegated to the United
States. Congress has no general power to enact police
regulations operative within the territorial limits of the
State. That power has been left with the individual
States and can not be taken from them either wholly
or in part. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542.

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Appellants.

312 U. S.

The power of the State in this field is unqualified and
exclusive, so long as its regulations do not invade the
sphere of national sovereignty, obstruct or impede the
exercise of any authority which the Constitution has
confided to the Nation, or deprive a citizen of rights
guaranteed to him thereunder.
The Pennsylvania Act simply requires that certain
aliens, who have not declared their intention to become
citizens, register, pay $1.00 for such registration, and
carry a registration card.
The State enacted this law in order to secure information in regard to aliens within its own boundaries. The
penalties and the carrying of the card are necessary in
order to enforce the law and to prevent evasion.
Compliance by an alien with the state statute does
not interfere in any way with his compliance with the
naturalization statute. If he files his declaration of intention, he is no longer subject to the state Act, even
if he does not complete his application.
It is obvious that there is no inconsistency and no
conflict between the alien registering with the State and
also with the United States. Legislation under the police
power of the State will not be stricken down unless it
plainly and palpably conflicts with some authority
granted to the Federal Government. Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461, 479, 480.
A State may pass a law which aids or co6perates with
the Federal Government in the exercise of its federal
power. Halter v. Nebraska, 205 U. S. 34; Gilbert V.
Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325.
Appellants concede that immigration and naturalization under Art. I, § 8, Cl. 3, of the Constitution are
within the exclusive power of Congress; but this provision does not place entire jurisdiction over aliens under
Congress, and the States under the police power can

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Argument for Appellants.

place restrictions and limitations upon aliens. Even if
control of aliens were within the exclusive power of
Congress, the State still has the right, as a local police
measure, to regulate aliens resident within its borders,
so long as such regulations are not repugnant to or inconsistent with federal enactments.
State insolvency laws, liquor laws, inspection laws and
quarantine laws have been upheld. See International
Shoe Co. v. Pinkus, 278 U. S. 261; Potts v. Smith Mfg.
Co., 25 Pa. Super. Ct. 206.
It should be noted that Pennsylvania passed its law
to register aliens on June 21, 1939, but it was not until
June 28, 1940, that the federal Act was passed. The
Pennsylvania Act does not restrict aliens coming into
the State nor expel them from the State. Until the
federal Act, there was no coiflict with the general power
delegated to the Federal Government covering the subject of naturalization and immigration. See also New
York, N. H., & H. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628.
There is no question about the right of the State to
act in the absence of federal legislation. The Alien Registration Act was constitutional when passed, since it
does not impinge on any power granted to Congress, for
it does not relate to the entrance of aliens into the State,
nor to their deportation; nor does it interfere in any way
with naturalization or with foreign or interstate relations.
It represents simply a local police measure to obtain
information regarding aliens resident within the State's
borders for the protection of its citizens, law-abiding
aliens and property. The only question is whether the
state Act is in abeyance or whether the state and federal
Governments have concurrent jurisdiction to register
aliens for the protection of inhabitants and property.
The Act does not deny equal protection of the laws
to aliens.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument of Amicus Curiae.

312 U. S.

Mr. Isidor Ostroff, with whom Mr. Herman Steerman
was on the brief, for appellees.
The Act is discriminatory, unreasonable, inconsistent
and capricious. The Act encroaches upon a field reserved
to federal action. People v. Baum, 251 Mich. 187; Truax
v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 39; Arrowsmith v. Voorhies, 55 F.
2d 310; Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259;
Chy Lung v. Freeman,92 U. S. 275.
The Act denies equal protection of the laws to aliens
in Pennsylvania.
By special leave of Court, Solicitor General Biddle,
with whom Assistant Attorney General Shea and Messrs.
Melvin H. Siegel, Richard H. Demuth, and Oscar H.
Davis were on the brief, for the United States, as amicus
curiae.
The federal Act of 1940 has superseded the Pennsylvania statute. The one is a comprehensive law on the
subject of the registration and identification of aliens;
the other, rather than complementing the federal law,
covers almost the same ground.
The enactment by Congress of this comprehensive and
integrated alien registration system precludes the exercise of any concurrent authority by the States. People
v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique,107 U. S. 59, 63;
Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 146-147; Easton v. Iowa,
188 U. S. 220, 231, 238; Oregon-Washington R. & Nay.
Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87, 99-101; Erie R. Co. v.
New York, 233 U. S. 671; Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 505-506; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Washington, 222 U. S. 370; New York Central R. Co. v.
Winfield, 244 U. S. 147; Second Employers' Liability
Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 55; Lindgren v. United States, 281
U. S. 38, 45-46; New York Central & Hudson River R.
v. Hudson County, 227 U. S. 248, 263-264; Southern Ry.
Co. v. Railroad Commission, 236 U. S. 439; International

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Argument of Amicus Curiae.

Shoe Co. v. Pinkus, 278 U. S. 261, 265-266; Gavit, The
Commerce Clause, § 117. It is immaterial that the obligations of the alien under the two enactments are not
necessarily incompatible. Charleston & Western Carolina Ry. Co. v. Varnville Furniture Co., 237 U. S. 597,
604; New York Central & Hudson R. Co. v. Tonsellito,
244 U. S. 360; Southern Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission,
246 U. S. 439, 446-448; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 250 U. S. 566, 569; Missouri Pacific R.
Co. v. Porter, 273 U. S. 341, 346; Gilvary v. Cuyahoga
Valley Ry., 292 U. S. 57, 60-61; cf., Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry.
v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98, 103. And it is likewise immaterial that the state law was enacted before the federal
law. Southern Ry. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, supra, 446,
447; People v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 107
U. S. 59, 63; Port Richmond Ferry Co. v. Board of Chosen
Freeholders,234 U. S. 317, 330; Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid,
222 U. S. 424.
The case of Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325, can
have no application to a situation like that here presented where enforcement of the federal.statute requires
continuous centralized administration and any independent and unco6rdinated effort by state officials to aid in
its enforcement could only result in confusion.
The Pennsylvania statute is also unenforceable because
it is in conflict with the Congressional policy embodied
in the federal law. Congress provided various safeguards
to protect the civil liberties of aliens and to guard them
against the vexation of intrusive police surveillance.
The Pennsylvania statute contains no similar safeguards;
to the contrary, it is fraught with the very dangers which
Congress sought to prevent.
The Act provides that the registration and fingerprinting shall be done at the Post Office, thus avoiding any
suggestion of police administration. There is no provision for the issuance of an identification card and no

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument of Amicus Curiae.

312 U. S.

requirement that the alien shall carry with him proof
of registration. The Pennsylvania statute contains no
similar protection of aliens.
Enforcement of the Congressional purpose to protect
the civil liberties of aliens requires that the federal government retain the power to control and cobrdinate all
activities with respect to registration and surveillance;
this policy can not be enforced if the States are permitted
to enact and administer independent registration systems,
whether for purely local ends or for some purpose which
the States share in common with the Nation.
If the States were permitted to administer independent
statutes, the probable consequence would be to confuse
the aliens as to their duties under each of the separate
enactments, with their different provisions, different regulations, and different methods of administration.
Nothing in the debates in Congress or in the committee
reports illumines the legislative intention concerning state
action. But., the President disclosed his understanding
that the field had been completely occupied, in a statement issued contemporaneously with his signing of the
bill, and the officials charged with administering the Act
have taken the same position. A formal statement issued
by the President upon completing his share in the legislative process is of importance in determining the legislative
intention to preclude or permit state action. See Jones,
Statutory Doubts and Legislative Intention, 40 Col. L.
Rev. 957, 968, n. 40; cf., United States v. Dickerson, 310
U. S. 554.
There is no occasion to consider to what extent the
States retain the power to enact census legislation for
local purposes. Cf., City of New York v. Miln, 11 Pet.
102.
Apart from the effect of the Alien Registration Act
of 1940, the States- may not require the registration of
alien residents without the express consent of Congress.

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Opinion of the Court.

The Pennsylvania Act is in conflict with § 16 of the
Civil Rights Act of 1870.
MR. JusTIcE. BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the validity of an Alien Registration
.Act adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.'
The Act, passed in 1939, requires every alien 18 years or
over, with certain exceptions,2 to register once each year;
provide such information as is required by the statute,
plus any "other information and details" that the Department of Labor and Industry may direct; pay $1 as
an annual registration fee; receive an alien identification
card and carry it at all times; show the card whenever
it may be demanded by any police officer or any agent
of the Department of Labor and Industry; and exhibit
the card as a condition precedent to registering a motor
vehicle in his name or obtaining a license to operate one.
The Department of Labor and Industry is charged with
the duties of classifying the registrations for "the purpose
of ready reference," and furnishing a copy of the classification to the Pennsylvania Motor Police. Nonexempt
aliens who fail to register are subject to a fine of not
'Pa. Stats. Ann. (Purdon, Supp. 1940) tit. 35, §§ 1801-1806.
The exceptions are: aliens who are the "father or mother of a son
or daughter who has served in the service of the United States during
any war"; aliens who have resided in the United States continuously
since December 31, 1908, without acquiring a criminal record; and
aliens who have filed their application for citizenship. The latter exception is qualified by the proviso that aliens in that category must
still register if they "shall not have become naturalized within a period
of three years" after applying for citizenship. Since federal law requires five years residence before citizenship can be acquired (8 U. S. C.

§ 382), this exception means that aliens may be exempt under the
Pennsylvania statute for the first three years after their arrival but
subject to the statute for the two years immediately preceding their
eligibility for citizenship.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of -"he Court.

312 U. S.

more than $100 or imprisonment for not more than 60
days, or both. For failure to carry an identification card
or for failure to show it upon proper demand, the punishment is a fine of not more than $10, or imprisonment
for not more than 10 days, or both.
A three-judge District Court enjoined enforcement of
the Act, holding that it denied aliens equal protection of
the laws, and that it encroached upon legislative powers
constitutionally vested in the federal government.' It is
that judgment we are here called upon to review.' But
in 1940, after the court had held the Pennsylvania Act
invalid, Congress enacted a federal Alien Registration
Act.' We must therefore pass upon the state Act in the
light of the Congressional Act.'
The federal Act provides for a single registration of
aliens 14 years of age and over; detailed information
specified by the Act, plus "such additional matters as
may be prescribed by the Commissioner, with the approval of the Attorney General"; finger-printing of all
registrants; and secrecy of the federal files, which can be
"made available only to such persons or agencies as may
be designated by the Commissioner, with the approval of
the Attorney General." No requirement that aliens
carry a registration card to be exhibited to police or
'30 F. Supp. 470. One alien and one naturalized citizen joined in
proceedings filed against certain state officials to enjoin enforcement of
the Act. The answer of the defendants admitted the material allegations of the petition and defended the Act on the ground that it was
within the power of the state. Plaintiffs moved for judgment on the
pleadings under Rule 12(c). The requested relief was denied as to the
naturalized citizen but granted as to the alien.
'The case is here on appeal under § 266 of the Judicial Code, as
amended (28 U. S. C. § 380). We noted probable jurisdiction on
March 25, 1940.
'Act of June 28, 1940, c. 439, 54 Stat. 670.
'Cf. Vandenbark v. Owens-Illinois Glass Co., 311 U. S. 538. And
see United States v. Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch 103, 110,. and Carpenter v. Wabash Ry. Co., 309 U. S. 23, 26-27.

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Opinion of the Court.

others is embodied in the law, and only the wilful failure
to register is made a criminal offense; punishment is fixed
at a fine of not more than $1000, imprisonment for not
more than 6 months, or both.
The basic subject of the state and federal laws is identical-registration of aliens as a distinct group. Appellants urge that the Pennsylvania law "was constitutional
when passed," and that "The only question is wiether
the state act is in abeyance or whether the state and
Federal Government have concurrent jurisdiction to
register aliens for the protection of inhabitants and property." Appellees, on the other hand, contend that the
Pennsylvania Act is invalid, for the reasons that it (1)
denies equal protection of the laws to aliens residing in
the state; (2) violates § 16 of the Civil Rights Act of
1870; (3) exceeds Pennsylvania's constitutional power
in requiring registration of aliens without Congressional
consent. Appellees' final contention is that the power to
restrict, limit, regulate and register aliens as a distinct
group is rflt an equal and continuously existing concurrent power of state and nation, but that even if the state
can legislate on this subject at all, its power is subordinate to supreme national law. Appellees conclude that
by its adoption of a comprehensive, integrated scheme
for regulation of aliens--including its 1940 registration
act-Congress has precluded state action like that taken
by Pennsylvania.'
' 16 Stat. 140, 144, 8 U. S. C. § 41: "'All persons within the jurisdiction of the United States shall have the same right in every State and
Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for
the security of persons and property as is enjoyed by white citizens,
and shall be subject to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses,
and exactions of every kind, and to no other.."
' Pennsylvania is not alone among the states in attempting to compel
alien registration. Several states still have dormant on their statute
books laws passed in 1917-18, empowering the governor to require reg-

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

In the view we take it is not necessary to pass upon
appellees' first, second, and third contentions, and so we
pass immediately to their final question, expressly leaving open all of appellees' other contentions, including the
argument that the federal power in this field, whether
exercised or unexercised, is exclusive. Obviously the
answer to appellees' final question depends upon an
analysis of the respective powers of state and national
governments in the regulation of aliens as such, and a
determination of whether Congress has, by its action,
foreclosed enforcement of Pennsylvania's registration
law.
First. That the supremacy of the national power in
the general field of foreign affairs, including power over
immigration, naturalization and deportation, is made
clear by the Constitution, was pointed out by the authors
of The Federalist in 1787,' and has since been given continuous recognition by this Court."° When the national
government by treaty or statute has established rules and
istration when a state of war exists or when public necessity requires
such a step. E.g., Conn. Gen. Stats. (1930) tit. 59, § 6042; Fla. Comp.
Gen. Laws (1927) § 2078; Iowa Code (1939) § 503; La. Gen. Stats.
(Dart, 1939) tit. 3, § 282; Me. Rev. Stats. (1930) ch. 34, § 3; N. H.
Pub. Laws (1926) ch. 154; N. Y. Cons. Laws (Executive Law) § 10.
Other states, like Pennsylvania, have passed registration laws more
recently. E. g., S. C. Acts (1940) No. 1014, § 9, p. 1939; N. C. Code
(1939) §§ 193 (a)-(h). In several states, municipalities have recently
undertaken local alien registration.
Registration statutes of Michigan and California were held unconstitutional in Arrowsmith v. Voorhies, 55 F. 2d 310, and Ex parte Ah Cue,
101 Cal. 197, 35 P. 556.
The importance of national power in all matters relating to foreign
affairs and the inherent danger of state action in this field are clearly
developed in Federalist papers No. 3, 4, 5, 42 and 80.
10 E. g., Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259; People v.
Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 107 U. S. 59; Fong Yue Ting v.
United States, 149 U. S. 698, 711. Cf. Z. & F. Assets Realization
Corp. v. Hull, 311 U. S. 470.

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Opinion of the Court.

regulations touching the rights, privileges, obligations or
burdens of aliens as such, the treaty or statute is the
supreme law of the land. No state can add to or take
from the force and effect of such treaty or statute, for
Article VI of the Constitution provides that "This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall
be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made,
or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United
States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the
Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing
in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary
notwithstanding." The Federal Government, representing as it does the collective interests of the forty-eight
states, is entrusted with full and exclusive responsibility
for the conduct of affairs with foreign sovereignties.
"For local interests the several States of the Union exist,
but for national purposes, embracing our relations with
foreign nations, we are but one people, one nation, one
power." " Our system of government is such that the
interest of the cities, counties and states, no less than
the interest of the people of the whole nation, imperatively requires that federal power in the field affecting
foreign relations be left entirely free from local interference. As Mr. Justice Miller well observed of a California
11Chinese Exclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581, 606. Thomas Jefferson, who
was not generally favorable to broad federal powers, expressed a similar view in 1787: "My own general idea was, that the States should
severally preserve their sovereignty in whatever concerns themselves
alone, and that whatever may concern another State, or any foreign
nation, should be made a part of the federal sovereignty." Memoir,
Correspondence and Miscellanies from the Papers of Thomas Jefferson
(1829), vol. 2, p. 230, letter to Mr. Wythe. Cf. James Madison in
Federalist paper No. 42: "The second class of powers, lodged in the
general government, consist of those which regulate the intercourse with
foreign nations. . . . This class of powers forms an obvious and essential branch of the federal administration. If we are to be one nation
in any respect, it clearly ought to be in respect to other nations."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

statute burdening immigration: "If [the United States]
should get into a difficulty which would lead to war, or
to suspension of intercourse, would California alone suffer,

or all the Union?"

12

One of the most important and delicate of all international relationships, recognized immemorially as a
responsibility of government, has to do with the protection of the just rights of a country's own nationals when
those nationals are in another country. Experience has
shown that international controversies of the gravest moment, sometimes even leading to war, may arise from
real or imagined wrongs to another's subjects inflicted,
or permitted, by a government. 3 This country, like
other nations, has entered into numerous treaties of
amity and commerce since its inception--treaties entered
into under express constitutional authority, and binding
" Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275, 279. Cf. Alexander Hamilton
in Federalist paper No. 80: "The peace of the whole ought not to be
left at the disposal of a part. The Union will undoubtedly be answerable to foreign powers for the conduct of its members." That the Congress was not unaware of the possible international repercussions of
registration legislation is apparent from a study of the history of the
1940 federal Act. Congressman Coffee, speaking against an earlier
version of the bill, said: "Are we not guilty of deliberately insulting
nations with whom we maintain friendly diplomatic relations? Are
we not humiliating their nationals? Are we not violating the traditions and experiences of a century and a half?" 84 Cong. Rec. 9536.
"For a collection of typical international controversies that have
arisen in this manner, see Dunn, The Protection of Nationals (1932),
pp. 13 et seq. Cf. John Jay in Federalist paper No. 3: "The number
of wars which have happened or will happen in the world will always
be found to be in proportion to the number and weight of the causes,
whether real or pretended, which provoke or invite them. If this
remark be just, it becomes useful to inquire whether so many just
causes of war are likely to be given by United America as by disunited
America; for if it should 'turn out that United America will probably
give the fewest, then it will follow that in this respect the Union tends
most to preserve the people in a state of peace with other nations."

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Opinion of the Court.

upon the states as well as the nation. Among those
treaties have been many which not only promised and
guaraniteed broad rights and privileges to aliens sojourning in our own territory, but secured reciprocal promises
and guarantees for our own citizens while in other lands.
And apart from treaty obligations, there has grown up
in the field of international relations a body of customs
defining with more or less certainty the duties owing by
all nations to alien residents-duties which our State
Department has often successfully insisted foreign nations must recognize as to our nationals abroad. 14 In
general, both treaties and international practices have
been aimed at preventing injurious discriminations
against aliens. Concerning such treaties, this Court has
said: "While treaties, in safeguarding important rights
in the interest of reciprocal beneficial relations, may by
their express terms afford a measure of protection to
aliens which citizens of one or both of the parties may
not be able to demand against their own government,
the general purpose of treaties of amity and commerce
is to avoid injurious' discrimination in either country
against the citizens of the other." "
Legal imposition of distinct, unusual and extraordinary
burdens and obligations upon aliens-such as subjecting
" "In consequence of the right of protection over its subjects abroad
which every State enjoys, and the corresponding duty of every State to
treat aliens on its territory with a certain consideration, an alien .. .
must be afforded protection for his person and property .... Every
State is by the Law of Nations compelled to grant to aliens at least
equality bofore the law with its citizens, as far as safety of person and
property is concerned. An alien must in particular not be wronged in
person or property by the officials and courts of a State. Thus the
police must not arrest him without just cause. . . ." 1 Oppenheim,
International Law (5th ed., 1937), pp. 547-548. And see 4 Moore,
International Law Digest, pp. 2, 27, 28; Borchard, The Diplomatic

Protection of Citizens Abroad (1928), pp. 2 5, 37 ,73, 104.
Todok v. Union State Bank, 281 U.S. 449, 454-455.
301335*-41--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

them alone, though perfectly law-abiding, to indiscriminate and repeated interception and interrogation by
public officials-thus bears an inseparable relationship to
the welfare and tranquillity of all the states, and not
merely to the welfare and tranquillity of one. Laws imposing such burdens are not mere census requirements,
and even though they may be immediately associated
with the accomplishment of a local purpose, they provoke
questions in the field of international affairs. And specialized regulation of the conduct of an alien before
naturalization is a matter which Congress must consider
in discharging its constitutional duty "To establish an
Uniform Rule of Naturalization . . ." It cannot be
doubted that both the state and the federal registration
laws belong "to that class of laws which concern the
exterior relation of this whole nation with other nations
Consequently the regulation of
and governments."'
aliens is so intimately blended and intertwined with responsibilities of the national government that where it
acts, and the state also acts on the same subject, "the
act of Congress, or the treaty, is supreme; and the law
of the State, though enacted in the exercise of powers
not controverted, must yield to it." ' And where the
federal government, in the exercise of its superior authority in this field, has enacted a complete scheme of regulation and has therein provided a standard for the registration of aliens, states cannot, inconsistently with the
purpose of Congress, conflict or interfere with, curtail or
complement, the federal law, or enforce additional or auxHendersonv. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259, 273.
,Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,211; see Charleston & Western Carolina Ry. Co. v. Varnvile Furniture Co., 237 U. S. 597. Cf. People v.
Compagnie G~nraleTransatlantique,107 U. S. 59, 63, where the Court,
speaking of a state law and a federal law dealing with the same type
of control over aliens, said that the federal law "covers the same
ground as the New York statute, and they cannot co-exist."

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Opinion of the Court.

iliary regulations.' There is not-and from the very nature of the problem there cannot be-.any rigid formula or
rule which can be used as a universal pattern to determine
the meaning and purpose of every act of Congress. This
Court, in considering the validity of state laws in the light
of treaties or federal laws touching the same subject, has
made use of the following expressions: conflicting; contrary to; occupying the field; repugnance; difference;
irreconcilability; inconsistency; violation; curtailment;
and interference." But none of these expressions provides an infallible constitutional test or an exclusive constitutional yardstick. In the final analysis, there can be
no one crystal clear distinctly marked formula. Our primary function is to determine whether, under the circumstances of this particular case, Pennsylvania's law stands
as an obstacle to the accomplishment and e~ecution of
the full purposes and objectives of Congress."0 And in
8 Cf. Nielsen v.

Johnson, 279 U. S. 47; Asakura v. Seattle, 265 U. S.
332; InternationalShoe Co. v. Pinkus, 278 U. S. 261, 265, and cases
there cited. And see Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 539. Appellant
relies on Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325, and Halter v. Nebraska,
205 U. S. 34, but neither of those cases is relevant to the issues here
presented.
19E. g., Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483, 489; Geofroy v. Riggs,
133 U. S. 258, 267; Asakura v. Seattle, 265 U. S. 332, 340, 342; Nielsen
v. Johnson, 279 U. S. 47, 52; Todok v. Union State Bank, 281 U. S. 449,
454; Santovincenzo v. Egan, 284 U. S.30, 40; United States v. Belmont,
301 U. S. 324, 331 (but compare the affirmance by an equally divided
Court in United States v. Moscow Fire Ins. Co., 309 U. S.624); Kelly
v. Washington, 302 U. S.1, 10, 11; Maurer v. Hamilton, 309 U. S. 598,
604; Bacardi Corporationv. Domenech, 311 U. S. 150, 157, 167..
20 Cf. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533: "For when the question is
whether a Federal act overrides a state law, the entire scheme of the
statute must of course be considered and that which needs must be
implied is of no less force than that which is expressed. If the purpose
of the act cannot otherwise be accomplished-if its operation within its
chosen field else must be frustrated and its provisions be refused their
natural effect-the state law must yield to the regulation of Congress
within the sphere of its delegated power."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

that determination, it is of importance that this legislation is in a field which affects international relations,
the one aspect of our government that from the first has
been most generally conceded imperatively to demand
broad national authority. Any concurrent state power
that may exist is restricted to the narrowest of limits;
the state's power here is not bottomed on the same broad
base as is its power to tax.21 And it is also of importance
that this legislation deals with the rights, liberties, and
personal freedoms of human beings, and is in an entirely
or state pure
different category from state tax statutes
22
food laws regulating the labels on cans.
Our conclusion is that appellee is correct in his contention that the power to restrict, limit, regulate, and
register aliens as a distinct group is not an equal and
continuously existing concurrent power of state and nation, but that whatever power a state may have is subordinate to supreme national law." We proceed there21Express

recognition of the breadth of the concurrent taxing powers

of state and nation is found in Federalist paper No. 32.
' It is true that where the Constitution does not of itself prohibit
state action, as in matters related to interstate commerce, and where
the Congress, while regulating related matters, has purposely left untouched a distinctive part of a subject which is peculiarly adapted to
local regulation, the state may legislate concerning such local matters
which Congress could have covered but did not. Kelly v. Washington,
302 U. S. 1, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 (inspection for seaworthiness of hull
and machinery of motor-driven tugs). And see Reid v. Colorado, 187
U. S. 137, 147 (prohibition on introduction of diseased cattle or
horses); Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 529, 532 (requirement that
certain labels reveal package contents); Carey v. South Dakota, 250
U. S. 118, 121 (prohibition' of shipment by carrier of wild ducks);
Dickson v. Uhlmann Grain Co., 288 U. S. 188, 199 (prohibition of
margin transactions in grain where there is no intent to deliver);
Mintz v. Baldwin, 289 U. S. 346, 350-352 (inspection of cattle for
infectious diseases); Maurer v. Hamilton, 309 U. S. 598, 604, 614
(prohibition of car-over-cab trucking).
'As supporting the contention that the state can enforce its alien
registration legislation, even though Congress has acted on the identical

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Opinion of the Court.

fore to an examination of Congressional enactments to
ascertain whether or not Congress has acted in such manner that its action should preclude enforcement of Pennsylvania's law.
Second. For many years Congress has provided a
broad and comprehensive plan describing the terms and
conditions upon which aliens may enter this country, how
they may acquire citizenship, and the manner in which
they may be deported. Numerous treaties, in return for
reciprocal promises from other governments, have pledged
the solemn obligation of this nation to the end that aliens
residing in our territory shall not be singled out for
the imposition of discriminatory burdens. Our Constitution and our Civil Rights Act have guaranteed to aliens
"the equal protection of the laws [which] is a pledge
of the protection of equal laws." 24 With a view to limiting prospective residents from foreign lands to those
possessing the qualities deemed essential to good and useful citizenship in America, carefully defined qualifications
are required to be met before aliens may enter our country. These qualifications include rigid requirements as
to health, education, integrity, character, and adaptability
to our institutions. Nor is the alien left free from the
subject, appellant relies upon a number of previous opinions of this
Court. Ohio ex rel. Clarke v. Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392, 395, 396;
Frick v. Webb, 263 U. S.326, 333; Webb v. O'Brien, 263 U. S. 313, 321,
322; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 223, 224; Heim v. McCall,
239 U. S. 175, 193, 194. In each of those cases this Court sustained
state legislation which applied to aliens only, against an attack on the
ground that the laws violated the equal protection clause of the Constitution. In each case, however, the Court was careful to point out
that the state law was not in violation of any valid treaties adopted
by the United States, and in no instance did it appear that Congress
had passed legislation on the subject. In the only case of this type in
which there was an outstanding treaty provision in conflict with the
state law, this Court held the state law invalid. Asakura v. Seattle,
265 U. S. 332.
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

application of federal laws after entry and before
naturalization. If during the time he is residing here
he should be found guilty of conduct contrary to the rules
and regulations laid down by Congress, he can be deported. At the time he enters the country, at the time
he applies for permission to acquire the full status of
citizenship, and during the intervening years, he can be
subjected to searching investigations as to conduct and
suitability for citizenship." And in 1940 Congress added
to this comprehensive scheme a complete system for alien
registration.
The nature of the power exerted by Congress, the object sought to be attained, and the character of the obligations imposed by the law, are all important in considering the question of whether supreme federal enactments preclude enforcement of state laws on the same
subject.'
Opposition to laws permitting invasion of the
personal liberties of law-abiding individuals, or singling
out aliens as particularly dangerous and undesirable
groups, is deep-seated in this country. Hostility to such
legislation in America stems back to our colonial history,2
and champions of freedom for the individual have always
vigorously opposed burdensome registration systems.
The drastic requirements of the alien Acts of 1798 29
brought about a political upheaval in this country the
repercussions from which have not even yet wholly subsided.2" So violent was the reaction to the 1798 laws
that almost a century elapsed before a second registration
- 8 U. S. C. §§ 152, 373, 377(c), 382, 398, 399(a).
' Cf. Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 622, 623.
'As early as 1641, in the Massachusetts "Body of Liberties," we
find the statement that "Every person within this Jurisdiction, whether
inhabitant or forreiner, shall enjoy the same justice and law that is
generall for the plantation . .
1 Stat. 570, 577.
See Field, J., dissenting in Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149
U. S. 698, 746-750. Cf. 84 Cong. Rec. 9534.

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Opinion of the Court.

act was passed. This second law, which required Chinese
to register-and carry identification cards with them at all
times, was enacted May 5; 1892. An opponent of this
legislation, speaking in the Senate of the requirement
that cards be carried, said: "[The Chinese covered by
the Act] are here ticket-of-leave men; precisely as, under
the Australian law, a convict is allowed to go at large
upon a ticket-of-leave, these people are to be allowed to
go at large and earn their livelihood, but they must have
their tickets-of-leave in their possession. . . . This
inaugurates in our system of government a new departure; one, I believe never before practised, although it
was suggested- in conference that some such rules had
been adopted in slavery times to secure the peace of
society." 30
For many years bills have been regularly presented to
every Congress providing for registration of aliens.
Some of these bills proposed annual registration of aliens,
issuance of identification cards containing information
about and a photograph of the bearer, exhibition of the
cards on demand, payment of an annual fee, and kindred
requirements."' Opposition to these bills was based upon
charges that their requirements were at war with the
fundamental principles of our free government, in that
they would bring about unnecessary and irritating restrictions upon personal liberties of the individual, and would
subject aliens to a system of indiscriminate questioning
similar to the espionage systems existing in other
.lands.'
°Quoted in Fong Yue Ting v. United States, supra, 743.
' E. g.; H. R. 9101 and H. R. 9147, 71st Cong., 2nd Session; see 72
Cong. Rec. 3886.

The requirement that cards be carried and exhibited has always
been regarded as one of the most objectionable features of proposed
registration systems, for it is thought to be a feature that best lends
itself to tyranny and intimidation. Congressman Celler, speaking in

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

When Congress passed the Alien Registration Act of
1940, many of the provisions which had been so severely
criticized were not included.33 The Congressional purpose, as announced by the chairman of the Senate subcommittee which drafted the final bill, was to "work . . .
the new provisions into the existing {immigration and
naturalization] laws, so as to make a harmonious
whole." "4 That "harmonious whole" included the "Uniform Rule of Naturalization" the Constitution empow1928 of the repeated defeat of registration bills and of an attempt by
the Secretary of Labor to require registration of incoming aliens by executive order, said: "But here is the real vice of the situation and the
core of the difficulty: 'The admitted alien,' as the order states, 'should
be cautioned to present [his card] for inspection if and when subsequently requested so to do by an officer of the Immigration Service.'"
70 Cong. Rec. 190.
" Congressman Smith, who introduced the original of the bill that
as finally adopted became the 1940 Act, said in Committee: "The drafting of the bill is . . . a codification of measures that have been offered
from time to time. . . . I have tried to eliminate from the bills that
have been offered on the subject those which seemed to me would cause
much controversy." Hearings before Subcommittee No. 3 of the House
Judiciary Committee, H. R. 5138, April 12, 1939, p. 71.
" Cong. Rec., June 15, 1940, p. 12620. Senator Connally made this
statement in explaining why it had been found necessary to substitute
a new bill for the bill originally sent to the Senate by the House. In
detailing the care that had been taken in the drafting of the new measure, he said: "We regretted very much that we had to discard entirely
the bill passed by the House and substitute a new bill after the enacting
clause. However, we called in Mr. Murphy, of the Drafting Service,
who worked with us some 2 weeks every day . . . We called on the
Department of Justice, and had the Solicitor General with us. We
called in the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, and
together we went over all the existing-laws, and worked the new provisions into the existing laws, so as to make a harmonious whole."
This Senate version was substantially the Act as finally adopted; the
alien registration provisions are title III of a broader Act dealing with
deportable offenses and advocacy of disloyalty in the armed forces.

HINES V. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

Opinion of the Court.

ered the Congress to provide. 5 And as a part of that
"harmonious whole," under the federal Act aliens need
not carry cards, and can only be punished for wilful failure to register."' Further, registration records and fingerprints must be kept secret and cannot be revealed except
to agencies-such as a state-upon consent of the Commissioner and the Attorney General.
We have already adverted to the conditions which make
the treatment of aliens, in whatever state they may be
located, a matter of national moment. And whether or
not registration of aliens is of such a nature that the
Constitution permits only of one uniform national system, itcannot be denied that the Congress might validly
conclude that such uniformity is desirable. The legislative history of the Act indicates that Congress was trying to steer a middle path, realizing that any registration
requirement was a departure from our traditional policy
of not treating aliens as a thing apart, but also feeling
that the Nation was in need of the type of information to
'In

Federalist paper No. 42, the reasons for giving this power to

the federal government are thus explained: "By the laws of several

States, certain descriptions of aliens, who had rendered themselves obnoxious, were laid under interdicts inconsistent not only with the rights
of citizenship but with the privilege of residence. What would have
been the consequence, if such persons, by residence or otherwise, had
acquired the character of citizens under the laws of another State . . .?
Whatever the legal consequences might have been, other consequences
,would probably have resulted, of too serious a nature not' to be provided against. The new Constitution has accordingly, with great propriety, made provision against them, and all others proceeding from
the defect of the Confederation on this head, by authorizing the general government to establish a uniform"rule of naturalization throughout the United States."
" That the Congressional decision to punish only wilful transgressions was deliberate rather than inadvertent is conclusively demonstrated by the debates on the bill. E. g., Cong. Rec., June 15, 1940, p.
12621. And see note 37, infra.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

312 U.S.

be secured."
Having the constitutional authority so to
do, it has provided a standard for alien registration in a
single integrated and all-embracing system in order to
obtain the information deemed to be desirable in connection with aliens. When it made this addition to its
uniform naturalization and immigration laws, it plainly
manifested a purpose to do so in such a way as to protect
the personal liberties of law-abiding aliens through one
uniform national registration system, and to leave them
free from the possibility of inquisitorial practices and
police surveillance that might not only affect our international relations but might also generate the very disloyalty which the law has intended guarding against.
Under these circumstances, the Pennsylvania Act cannot
be enforced. Accordingly, the judgment below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE STONE, dissenting:
I think the judgment below should be reversed.
Undoubtedly Congress, in the exercise of its power to
legislate in aid of powers granted by the Constitution to
the national government may greatly enlarge the exercise
of federal authority and to an extent which need not
now be defined, it may, if such is its will, thus subtract
from the powers which might otherwise be exercised by
' Congressman Celler, ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee which reported out the bill, said in stating his intention of voting for the 1940 Act: "Mr. Speaker, judging the temper of the Nation, I
belie-ie this compromise report is the best to be had under the circumstances and I shall -vote for it .

.

. Furthermore, I think the con-

ferees have done a good job because the punishment is not too
great . . . There must be proof . . . that the alien willfully refuses
to register . . . I drew the minority report against this bill originally,

because it provided some very harsh provisions against aliens. Some
of the harshness and some of the severity of the original bill have been
eliminated . . . I must admit that it is the best to be had under the

circumstances."

Cong. Rec., June 22, 1940, pp. 13468-9.

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

SToNE,

J., dissenting.

the states. Assuming, as the Court holds, that Congress
could constitutionally set up an exclusive registration
system for aliens, I think it has not done so and that it
is not the province of the courts to do that which Congress has failed to do.
At a time when the exercise of the federal power is
being rapidly expanded through Congressional action, it
is difficult to overstate the importance of safeguarding
against such diminution of state power, by vague inferences as to what Congress might have intended if it had
considered the matter or by reference to our own conceptions of a-policy which Congress has not expressed and
which is not plainly to be inferred from the legislation
which it has enacted. Cf. Graves v. O'Keefe, 306 U. S.
466, 479, 480, 487. The Judiciary of the United States
should not assume to strike down a state law which is
immediately concerned with the social order and safety
of its people unless the statute plainly and palpably violates some right granted or secured to the national government by the Constitution or similarly encroaches
upon the exercise of some authority delegated to the
United States for the attainment of objects of national
concern.
The opinion of the Court does not deny, and I see no
reason to doubt that the Pennsylvania registration statute, when passed, was a lawful exercise of the constitutional power of the state. With exceptions not now material it requires aliens resident in the state, who have not
declared their intention to become citizens, to register
annually, to pay a registration fee of $1.00, and to carry
a registration identification card. It affords to the state
a convenient method of ascertaining the number and
whereabouts of aliens within the state, which it is entitled to know, and a means of their identification. It is
an available aid in the enforcement of a number of
statutes of the state applicable to aliens whose constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STOND,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

tional validity has not been questioned, one of which has
been held by this Court not to infringe the Fourteenth
Amendment. Patsone v. Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 138.'
The national government has exclusive control over
the admission of aliens into the United States but, after
entry, an alien resident within a state, like a citizen, is
subject to the police powers of the state and, in the exercise of that power, state legislatures may pass laws applicable exclusively to aliens so long as the distinction taken
between aliens and citizens is not shown to be without
rational basis. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, supra; Terrace
v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197; Cockrill v. California, 268
U. S. 258; Ohio v. Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392, 396, and
cases cited. The federal government has no general
police power over aliens and, so far as it can exercise any
control over them, it must be in the pursuance of a power
granted to it by the Constitution.
The opinion of the Court does not support its conclusion upon the ground that in the absence of federal legislation on the subject there is any want of power in the
state to pass the present statute. It does not suggest, nor
could it well do so, that in the absence of Congressional
action the Pennsylvania statute either by its own terms
or in its operation interferes with or obstructs the author1 Tit. 34 § 1311.1001, Purdon's Penn. Stat. Ann., prohibiting hunting
by aliens, was sustained in the Patsone case, 232 U. S. 138. Cf. Tit. 30

§240. Other Pennsylvania statutes whose validity has not been
passed upon regulate the activities of aliens: Tit. 63, setting forth
license requirements for the practice of certain professions and occupations, makes special requirements for aliens seeking to practice as certified public accountants (§ 1), architects (§ 22), engineers (§ 137),
nurses (§ 202), physicians and surgeons (§ 406), and undertakers
(§ 478c). The real property holdings of aliens are limited to 5000
acres of land or land producing net income of $20,000 or less
(Title 68, §§ 28, 32)' Taxes are to be deducted from the wages of
aliens by their employers when the tax collector requests (Tit. 72,

5681).

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

STONE,

J., dissenting.

ity conferred by the Constitution on the national government over the national defense,, the conduct of foreign
relations, its powers over immigration and deportation of
aliens or their naturalization. The existence of the
national power to conduct foreign relations and negotiate
treaties does not foreclose state legislation dealing exclusively with aliens as such. This Court has consistently
held that treaties of the United States for the protection
of resident aliens do not supersede such legislation unless
they conflict with it. See Ohio v. Deckebach, supra, 395
and cases cited; Todok v. Union State Bank, 281 U. S.
449, 454 et seq.; cf. Nielsen v. Johnson, 279 U. S. 47. It
is not contended that the Pennsylvania statute conflicts
with any term of any treaty.
The question presented here is a different one from
that considered in Henderson v. Mayor of New York,
92 U. S. 259, 273, where the state taxation and registration of all persons entering the United States through a
port of the state was held to be a regulation of foreign
commerce forbidden to the states by the Constitution,
even though Congress had passed no similar legislation.
The registration of aliens resident in a state is not a
regulation of interstate or foreign commerce or of the
entry or deportation of aliens and would seem to be no
more an exercise of any power granted to the national
government, or an encroachment upon it, than is a state
census for local purposes an infringement of the national
authority to take a national census for national purposes. It is the federal act alone which is pointed to as
curtailing or withdrawing the reserved power of the state
over its alien population.
Title I of the federal statute penalizes certain acts of
any persons intended to interfere with, impair or influence the loyalty, morale or discipline of the military or
naval forces of the United States. Title II, among other
things, provides for the deportation of aliens after con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

viction and service of sentence for violations of the pro-visions of Title I. And the evident purpose of the registration provisions of Title III is to aid in the enforcement
of the other provisions of the Act and in the prevention
of subversive activities of aliens resident within the
United States. It requires the registration and fingerprinting of all aliens -over fourteen years of age, with exceptions not now material, who are not registered and
fingerprinted upon entering the country. Registered
aliens resident in the United States are required to notify
the Commissioner of Immigration of any change of residence and penalties are imposed for wilful non-compliance. As Construed and applied by the opinion of the
Court the federal act denies to the states the practicable
means of identifying their alien residents and of recording their whereabouts and it withholds from the states
the benefit of the information secured under the federal
act except insofar as it may be made available to them
on application to the Attorney General.
It is conceded that the federal act in operation does
not at any point conflict with the state statute, and it
does not by its terms purport to control or restrict state
authority in any particular. But the government says
that Congress by passing the .federal act, has "occupied
the field" so as to preclude the enforcement of the state
statute and that the administration of the latter might
well conflict with Congressional policy to protect the civil
liberty of 'aliens against the harassments of intrusive
police surveillance.
Little aid can be derived from the vague and illusory
but often repeated formula that Congress "by occupying
the field" has excluded from it all state legislation.
Every Act of Congress occupies some field, but we must
know the boundaries of that field before we can say
that it has precluded a state from the exercise of any
power reserved to it by the Constitution. To discover

HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ.
52

SToND, J., dissenting.

the boundaries we look to the federal statute itself, read
in the light of its constitutional setting and its legislative
history.
Federal statutes passed in aid of a glanted power obviously supersede state statutes with which they conflict. PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Illinois Brick Co., 297 U. S.
447, 459. See Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S. 1, 10. But
we are pointed to no such conflict here. In the exercise
of such. powers Congress also has wide scope for prohibiting state regulation of matters which Congress may,
but has not undertaken to regulate itself. But no words
of the statute or of any comrhittee report, or any Congressional debate indicate that Congress intended to
withdraw from the states any part of their constitutional
power over aliens within their borders. We must take it
that Congress was not unaware that some nineteen states
have statutes or ordinances requiring some form of registration for aliens, seven of them dating from the last war.
The repeal of this legislation is not to be inferred from
the silence of Congress in enacting a law which at no
point conflicts with the state legislation and is harmonious with it.
The exercise of the federal legislative power is certainly not more potent to curtail the exercise of state
power over aliens than is the exercise of the treaty making power. Yet as we have seen no treaty has that effect
unless it conflicts with a state statute. The passage of
the National Pure Food & Drug Act did not preclude
the states from supplementing it by like additional requirements not conflicting with those of the Congressional act. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501. The enactment of federal laws -for the inspection, as a safety measure, of vessels plying navigable waters of the United
States does not foreclose the states from like inspection
of the hull and machinery of such vessels within the state,
to insure safety and determine seaworthiness, demands

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
SToN,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

which lie outside the federal requirements. Kelly v.
Washington, supra. The passage of the National Draft
and the National Espionage Acts with their penalties for
violation, did not preclude a state from making it a misdemeanor for any person to advocate that citizens of the
state refuse to aid or assist the United States in carrying
on a war. Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S.325; cf. Halter
v. Nebraska, 204 U. S. 34; see also Reid v. Colorado, 187
U. S. 137; Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 118; Dickson
v. Uhlmann Grain Co., 288 U. S. 188; Mintz v. Baldwin,
289 U. S. 346; Maurer v. Hamilton, 309 U. S.598, 614.
These are but a few of the many examples of the long
established principle of constitutional interpretation
that an exercise by the state of its police power, which
would be valid if not superseded by federal action, is
superseded only where the repugnance or conflict is so
"direct and positive" that the two acts cannot "be fairly
reconciled or consistently stand together." Sinnot v.
Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243; Kelly v. Washington,
supra, 10. A federal registration act designed to aid in
enforcing federal statutes and to prevent subversive activities against the national government can stand consistently with a like statute applicable to residents passed
in aid of state laws and as a safeguard to property and
persons within the state, as readily as the federal and
state laws -which annually demand two separate income
tax returns of the citizen.
The Fourteenth Amendment guarantees the civil liberties of aliens as well as of citizens against infringement
by state action in the enactment of laws and their administration as well. Again we are pointed to nothing in the
Federal Alien Registration Act or in the records of its
passage through Congress to indicate that Congress
thought those guarantees inadequate or that in requiring
registration of all aliens it undertook to prevent the
states from passing any registration measure otherwise
constitutional. True, it was careful to bring the new

R. F. C. v. MENIHAN CORP.
Syllabus.

52

legislation into harmony with existing federal statutes
and to avoid, so far as consistent with its purposes, any
harsh or oppressive requirements, but in all this there is
to be found no warrant for saying that there was a Congressional purpose to curtail the exercise of any constitutional power of the state over its alien residents or to
protect the alien from state action which the Constitution prohibits and which the federal courts stand ready
to prevent. See Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 518, 525
et seq.
Here compliance with the state law does not preclude
or even interfere with compliance with the act of Congress. The enforcement of both acts involves no more
inconsistency, no more inconvenience to the individual,
and no more embarrassment to either government than
do any of the laws, state and national, such as revenue
laws, licensing laws, or police regulations, where interstate commerce is involved, which are equally applied to
the citizen because he is subject, as are aliens, to a dual
sovereignty.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS
I
concur in this opinion.

RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORPORATION v.

J. G. MENIHAN CORP.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 200. Argued January 10, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. Rule 54 (d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure providing that "costs
against the United States, its officers, and agencies shall be imposed
only to the extent permitted by law," is merely declaratory and
effected no change of principle. P. 83.
2. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a government agency
whose transactions are akin to those of private enterprise and
301335 -41-0

