NELSON v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
349

Syllabus.

L. Rev. 179, 197, et seq. Although the question does
not appear to have been definitely settled, in 1926 the
Commission received some support for its view. See
Chamber of Commerce v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 13 F.
2d 673, 684. Cf. American Can Co. v. Ladoga Canning

Co., 44 F. 2d 763, 770-771.

But in 1939 that power

denied. California Rice Industry v. Federal Trade
Comm'n, 102 F. 2d 716, 723. Nonuse of the asserted
was

power clearly cannot be inferred from that record. In the

second place, it would not be relevant if this power did

lay dormant for years. Mere nonuse does not subtract
from power which has been granted. The host of practical reasons which may defer exhaustion of administra-

tive powers lies in the realm of policy.

From that delay

we can hardly infer that the heed did not or does not

exist.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE REED
dissent.

join in this

NELSON, CHAIRMAN OF THE STATE TAX COMMISSION, ET AL. v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.
No. 255.

Argued January 13, 14, 1941.-Decided February 17, 1941.

The Iowa Use Tax Act, complementing a sales tax, requires every
retailer maintaining a place of business within the State, at the
time of making sales of tangible personal property for use within
the State, to collect from the purchaser the tax imposed. The
amount required to be collected is made a "debt" of the retailer to the State. Failure to collect the tax subjects a foreign
corporation to revocation of its permit to do business within the
State. Held that a foreign corporation which maintained retail
stores in Iowa may constitutionally be required to collect the
ta in respect of mail orders, sent by Iowa purchasers to out-ofstate branches of the corporation' and filled by direct shipment by
mail or common carrier from those branches to the purchasers,

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

even though such orders were not solicited or placed by any of the
corporation's agents in Iowa. Pp. 361, 364.
1. The collection of the tax in such case is a burden which the
State may impose on the corporation as a price for enjoying the
full benefits of its Iowa business. P. 364.
2. Since the use tax and the sales tax are complementary, and
sales made wholly within the State bear the same burden as the
mail order sales, there is no discrimination against interstate
commerce. P. 364.
3. That the corporation is in competition with out-of-state mail
order houses which, because they are not authorized to do business in Iowa, need not and do not collect the tax on their sales to
Iowa purchasers, does not invalidate the operation of the Act as
to it. P. 365.
4. Nor is the Act invalid because of the cost or inconvenience
to the corporation of collecting the tax, nor because of losses it
may sustain in making deliveries before collecting the tax. P. 365.
228 Iowa 1273; 292 N. W. 130, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 630, to review the affirmance by

the state supreme court of a decree enjoining the enforcement against respondent of provisions of the Iowa
Use Tax Act as applied to mail order sales.
Mr. John E. Mulroney, Assistant Attorney General of
Iowa, with whom Mr. John M. Rankin, Attorney General, was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr' Joseph G. Gamble, with whom Messrs. Charles

Lederer, Ralph L. Read, and Bert L. Klooster were on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves the constitutionality of the Iowa
Use Tax (Ia. Code 1939, §§ 6943.102-6943.125) as applied to respondent's mail order business conducted directly between customers in Iowa and respondent's mail
order houses located outside Iowa. The Supreme Court
of Iowa, in a five to four decision, held for respondent

NELSON v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
359

361

Opinion of the Court.

on that issue. 228 Ia. 1273; 292 N. W. 130. We granted
certiorari because of the importance of the constitutional
question presented. Jud. Code § 237 (b); 28 U. S. C.
§344 (b).
The Iowa Use Tax is complementary to the Iowa Retail Sales Tax. Ia. Code 1939, §§ 6943.074, et seq. It
is a tax on the use in Iowa of tangible personal property
at the rate of two per cent of the purchase price.'
"Use," so far as material here, is defined as "the exercise by any person of any right or power over tangible
personal property incident to the ownership of that property." § 6943.102. While the tax is imposed on "'every
person using such property within this state until such
tax has been paid" (§ 6943.103), it is further provided
(§ 6943.109) that every "retailer maintaining a place of
business in this state and making sales of tangible personal property for use in this state . . . shall at the time

of making such sales, whether within or without the
state, collect the tax imposed by this act from the purchaser . . ." By § 6943.112 the tax constitutes a "debt
owed by the retailer" to the state.! And if the retailer
'The Use Tax Act provides in § 6943.103,

"An excise tax is hereby imposed on the use in this state of tangible personal property purchased on or after the effective date of this
act (April 16, 1937) for use in this state, at the rate of two per cent
of the purchase price of such property. Said tax is hereby imposed
upon every person using such property within this state until such
tax has been paid directly to the county treasurer, to a retailer, or
to the commission as hereinafter provided."
The sales tax is a two per cent tax on gross receipts from sales of
tangible personal property sold at retail in the state to consumers or
users. § 6943.075. So far as material here, the Use Tax need not be
paid on property where a tax is required to be paid under the Sales
Tax Act. § 6943.104.
'The retailer must also make quarterly returns. § 6943.113. Penalties are imposed for delay in filing returns (§ 6943.118), for failure
to do so or for failure to furnish data required by the commission.
§ 6943.120.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

fails to collect the tax, etc., his retailer's permit
(§ 6943.084) may be revoked; and in case of a foreign
corporation, its permit to do business in the state as

well. § 6943.122.
Respondent is a New York corporation authorized
since 1928 to do business in Iowa. It has various retail
stores there. It pays the tax on sales made at those
stores. It also pays the tax on orders placed at those
stores, though shipment is made direct to the purchaser
from one-of respondent's out of state branches. But it
has refused to collect the tax on mail orders sent by Iowa
purchasers to its out of state branches and filled by direct
shipments through the mails or a common carrier from
those branches to the purchasers.' On threat of petitioners to revoke respondent's permit because of such

refusal, respondent brought this suit for an injunction,
alleging, inter alia, that the Act as applied violates § 8
of Article I of the Constitution and the Fourteenth

Amendment.
-The Iowa Supreme Court held that if respondent had
limited its activities to a mail order buhiness of the kind
here involved, it would not be doing business in Iowa;
'In 1937 respondent mailed to residents of Iowa about 600,000
small catalogues land 427,000 large ones. Respondent maintains 12
retail stores in Iowa, its investment therein exceeding $500,000. The
aggregate sales of the retail stores in Iowa for 1936 amounted to
$5,080,000; for 1937, $5,600,000. Its mail order sales in Iowa for
1936 aggregated about $5,900,000; for 1937, about $5,400,000. It
estimates that it has some 300,000 Iowa customers of its mail order
houses and that in 1937 there were about 1,200,000 orders received
from Iowa customers.
One of respondent's witnesses testified that the catalogues and bulletins mailed out were "our sole means. of securing" the mail order
business. But he also testified, "If a customer inquired from a clerk
in the store as to. whether or not he would have to pay a use tar
upon an order, I believe the clerk would inform him that if he himself mailed the order that there would be no sales tax or use tax
charged."

NELSON v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
359

363

Opinion of the Court.

that, although technically the tax may be on the purchaser, it must be collected when the sale is made, at
which time the property is outside the state; that these
sales are separate and distinct from respondent's activities in Iowa. It therefore concluded that the tax as
applied was unconstitutional since Iowa has no power to
regulate respondent's activities outside the state or to
regulate such activities as a condition to respondent's
right to continue to do business in the state.
In passing on the constitutionality of a tax law "we
are concerned only with its practical operation, not its
definition or the precise form of descriptive words which
may be applied to it." Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n,
286 U. S. 276, 280; Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,
306 U. S. 167, 177; Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney Co., 311
U. S. 435. The fact that under Iowa law the sale is
made outside of the state does not mean that the power
of Iowa "has nothing on which to operate." Wisconsin
v. J. C. Penney Co., supra. The purchaser is in Iowa
and the tax is upon use in Iowa. The validity of such
a tax, so far as the purchaser is concerned, "has been,
withdrawn from the'arena of debate." Henneford v.
Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577, 583; Southern Pacific Co.
v. Gallagher, supra. It is one of the well-known functions of the integrated use and sales tax to remove the
buyers' temptation "to place their orders in other states
in the effort to escape payment of the tax on local sales."
Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., supra, p. 581. As pointed
out in that case (p. 582), the fact that the buyer employs
agencies of interstate commerce in order to effectuate
his purchase is not material, since the tax is "upon the
privilege of use after commerce is at an end." And see
Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,supra. Use in Iowa is
what is 'taxed regardless of the time and place of passing
title and regardless of the time the tax is required to be
paid. Cf. McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal Mining
Co., 309 U. S.33, 49.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

So the nub of the present controversy centers on the
use-of respondent as the collection agent for Iowa. The
imposition of such a duty, however, was held not to be
an unconstitutional burden on a foreign corporation in
Monamotor Oil Co.. v. Johnson, 292 U. S. 86, and Felt &,
Tarrant Mfg. Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 62. But respondent insists that those cases involved local activity
by the foreign corporation as a result of which property
was sold to its local, customers, while in the instant case
there is no local activity by respondent which generates
& which relates to the mail orders here involved. Yet
these orders are still a part of respondent's Iowa business. The fact'that respondent could not be reached
for the tax if it were not qualified to do business in Iowa
would merely be a result of the "impotence of state
power." Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney Co., supra. Since
Iowa has- extended to it that privilege, Iowa can exact
this burden as a price of enjoying the full benefits flowing from its Iowa business. Cf. Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney Co., supra. Respondent cannot avoid that burden
though its business is departmentalized. Whatever may
be the inspiration for these mail orders, however they
may be filled, Iowa may rightly assume that they are
not unrelated to respondent's course of business in Iowa.
They are nonetheless a part of that business though none
of respondent's agents- in Iowa actually solicited or
placed them. Hence to include them in the glo]al
amount of benefits which respondent is receiving from
Iowa business is to conform to business facts.
Nor is the mode of enforcing the 'tax on the privileges
of these Iowa transactions any discrimination against,
interstate commerce. As we have seen, the use tax and
the sales tax are complementary. Sales made wholly
within Iowa carry the same burden as these mail order
sales. A tax or other burden obviously does not discriminate against interstate commerce where "equality

NELSON v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
359

365

Opinion of the, Court.

is its theme." Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., supra,
pp. 583-586; McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal Mining
Co., supra, pp. 48-49.
Respondent, however, insists that the duty of tax
collection placed on it constitutes a regulation of and
substantial burden upon interstate commerce and results
in an impairment of the free flow'of such commerce.
It points to the fact that in its mail order business it is
in competition with out of state mail order houses which
need not and do not collect the tax on their Iowa sales.
But those other concerns are not doing business in the
state as foreign corporations. Hence, unlike respondent,
they are not receiving benefits from Iowa for which it
has the power to exact a price. Respondent further
stresses the cost to it of making these collections and
its probable loss as a result of its inability to collect the
tax on all sales." But cost and inconvenience inhered
in the same duty imposed on the foreign corporations in
the Monamotor and Felt & Tarrant cases. And so far
'In Illinois respondent undertakes to collect the sales tax on mail
orders from its Illinois customers. A notice and schedule of the tax
for various amounts of orders are contained in the Illinois catalogue.
It asserts that approximately 65% of those orders include an allowance for the tax. Where the orders are not accompanied by an
amount covering the Illinois sales tax, respondent does not hold up
the order but fills it and sends the customer a bill for the difference.
It says that it collects approximately 36% of those deficiencies where
the amount is less than 250; 70% to 75%, where the amount is more.
On the assumption that on sales to Iowa purchasers the use tax
would amount to $100,000 a year, respondent asserts that, based on
its Illinois experience, the maximum that would be collected would be
$68,000. To do that, it says, would entail a direct cost to it of
approximately $13,700 a year. Those calculations are on the assumption that respondent would put a notice in its Iowa catalogues similar to the one used in Illinois. If such a notice were not given, it
asserts that collections of the Iowa use tax would not exceed $35,000
(out of an assumed $100,000) and that its cost would be approximately $18,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROmiRTS, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

as assumed losses on tax collections are concerned, respondent is in no position to found a constitutional right
on the practical opportunities for tax avoidance which
its method of doing business affords Iowa residents, or to
claim a constitutional immunity because it may elect to
deliver the goods before the tax is paid.
Prohibited discriminatory burdens on interstate commerce are not to be determined by abstractions. Particular facts of specific cases determine whether a given
tax prohibitively discriminates against interstate commerce. Hence a review of prior adjudications based on
widely disparate facts, howsoever embedded in general
propositions, does not facilitate an answer to the present
problem.
- The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the Iowa Supreme Court for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or disposition of this case.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting.

I think that the judgment should be affirmed.
The respondent, a New York corporation, conducts an
interstate mail order business. It has also established
retail stores throughout the country. In 1928, to secure
the privilege of conducting stores in Iowa as a foreign
corporation, it obtained a permit which has been kept
in force by payment of the fees prescribed by the State.
No question arises with respect to the collection by the
respondent of the tax on sales made in stores in Iowa
or on sales based upon orders taken in those stores ,but
filled by forwarding articles from a warehouse in another state.
The controversy arises only over pure mail order sales.
These are consummated in the following manner: The
respondent forwards to persons in Iowa catalogues de-

NELSON v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
359

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

tailing the articles it has for sale, the prices, and the cost
of transporting them. A person in Iowa forwards his
written order to one of the respondent's mail order houses
located outside Iowa for the purchase of tangible personal property as listed and priced in respondent's catalogue, the order being accompanied by a remittance of
the purchase price, plus transportation charges, and usually specifying the method of transportation desired by
the purchaser. The order is accepted or rejected at the
place where it is received and, if accepted, is filled by
delivery to the post office or to a carrier for direct shipment from the extra-state mail order house to the purchaser in Iowa.
This mail order branch of respondent's business is
separate and distinct from any activity conducted at its
stores in Iowa. In conducting it the respondent is in
direct competition with other mail order houses which
conduct their business in exactly similar fashion but have
no stores in Iowa and are not therein registered as foreign
corporations.
The method necessarily pursued in the respondent's
mail order business 'makes it a certainty that it will
be unable, by whatever practical efforts it may put forth,
to collect the amount of the use tax on all -its mail order
sales made to persons in Iowa. In 1937 the number of
its mail order transactions with some 300,000 persons in
Iowa was approximately 1,200,000. Under the statute
as attempted to be enforced against its mail order business, if, in 1937, the respondent had failed to collect from
each customer the sum involved as tax, it would have
been liable to Iowa in the aggregate for two per cent.
on approximately $5,400,000,-the volume of its Iowa
mail order business in that year. If it had made the
effort to collect the tax, the cost of so doing would have
been approximately eighteen per cent. of the total tax on
the mail order sales made to persons in Iowa and, in addition to that cost, the respondent would.have been liable

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
,ROBETS, J., dissenting.

312'U. S.

for approximately $38,000 of tax uncollected from purchasers. In addition, as a result of -the exaction, the
respondent's mail order business will be placed at a serious disadvantage in competition with other mail order
concerns which have no retail stores in Iowa and so have
a price advantage of two per cent. of sales price as
against respondent.
The penalty for failing to collect the tax as agent for
the State, or to pay the sum not susceptible of collection from purchasers, as required by the State, will be
the revocation of respondent's permit for the conduct of
its stores in Iowa, which represent a large expenditure
for furniture, fixtures, appliances, and stock, and will
entail loss of rental values under long term leases.
I am of opinion that the attempted enforcement
of the statute in the manner proposed by the taxing
authorities of the State violates both the commerce clause
and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.
First. The respondent's mail order business is interstate commerce,1 and Iowa may not prohibit the respondent from conducting that business with her
citizens.' To attempt so to do would be a violation of
the commerce clause of the Constitution.
Not only so, but Iowa may not directly burden such
commerce. Therefore she may not tax the privilege of
engaging in it; regulate or license its pursuit,' or tax the
'Heyman v. Hayes, 236 U. S. 178, 186.
'Bownan v. Chicago & N.) W. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465; Leisy v.
Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1;
West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co.,. 221 U. S. 229, 250, 262; Louisville
& Nashville R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co.; 223 U. S. 70, 82; Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 401.
'International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, 105, 108; Buck
Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205, 215; Sault Ste. Marie v. International Transit Co., 234 U. S. 333, 340; Lemke v. Farmers Grain
Co., 258 U. S. 50; Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. Tax Commission,
302 U. S. 90, 94.

NELSON v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
359

ROBERTS,

369

J., dissenting.

gross income derived from it.4 And even if the respondent maintained a force of agents in Iowa soliciting orders
to be shipped in interstate commerce that fact would not
render it amenable to the regulation or taxation of its
mail order business.6
Thus Iowa may not lawfully license or regulate the
business of agents soliciting orders to be shipped in interstate commerce; 6 or limit or condition the right to
enforce mail order contracts in Iowa courts.! The power
to exclude foreign corporations altogether from doing a
local business does not enable the State to impose burdens upon the transaction of interstate commerce by 'a
foreign corporation registered in the State; and registration by a foreign corporation in order to do business
within the State does not constitute a waiver of the corporation's right to transact interstate business free from
the burdens of state regulation or -taxation.8
Iowa may not abuse its conceded power to tax or
regulate the respondent's activities within the State by
attempting to compel compliance by the respondent with
unconstitutional efforts to tax or burden its interstate
commerce? And Iowa may not forfeit, as it proposes
to do, the right to conduct a domestic business by -reason
of the refusal of the respondent to submit to a burden
upon its interstate business."
'Fisher's Blend Station v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 650, 655;
Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307.

, Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; International Text Book Co.

V. Pigg, supra.

'Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227
U. S. 389.
'Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 201; Furst & Thomas
v. Brewster, 282 U. S. 493.
'Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426, 434; Hanover
Fire Ins. Co. v. Harding,272 U. S. 494, 507, 517.
'Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178, 187.
"°Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 34; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
3o1335o-41-

24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBRTS, J., dissenting.

312 U.S.

Clearly in this instance the effort is directly and substantially to burden the transaction of an interstate business with the state's citizens, in violation of the commerce clause, by the threat of penalizing disobedience
by the forfeiture of the right to transact, within Iowa,
an independent business which the respondent conducts
in accordance with all existing laws, including the law
requiring it to deduct and pay over the amount of the
Iowa sales tax. Upon reason, as well as upon the unbroken current of authority in this court, Iowa has no
such power to burden interstate commerce.
Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson, 292 U. S. 86, and
Felt & TarrantMfg. Co. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 62, relied
upon by the petitioners, are not in point.
The first is not apposite because there
the company
was engaged in the distribution of gasoline in the State
of Iowa. This was the only activity drawn in question.
The statute merely required the company, in distributing
gasoline to users, to add the tax to its sales price and
report and return the amount of tax thus withheld. In
the second, the collection of the use tax was imposed
with respect to property, sold by the corporation through
its general agents who were doing business in the State
of California and were handling articles sold for delivery
in that State. As an incident of such sales, the seller
was required to add the tax and make return of it to
the State.1'
In iustification of the exaction it is said that the purchaser is in Ibwa and the tax is on the purchaser's use
in that State. But if these facts were determinative they
would justify the imposition of a tax or burden, by the
O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280, 285; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Foster,
247 U. S. 105, 114; Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Commission, 271
U. S. 583, 593.
" Compare Wiloil Corporation v. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S. 169;

Graybar Electric Co. v. Curry, 308 U. S. 513.

NELSON v. SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO.
359

371

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

state of the purchaser's residence, on every transaction in
which goods are sold- in interstate commerce. Attention
is also called to the fact that Iowa cannot effectively
reach its own citizens in order to enforce the use tax on
them. This cannot, however, justify the state's attempt
to save itself trouble by placing an unconstitutional
burden upon interstate commerce conducted by a citizen
of another state. Reference is made to the circumstance
that, as a similar tax is laid on local sales in Iowa, there
is no discrimination in imposing the tax or its collection
upon the respondent, but the argument will not serve
to legalize the tax. A state cannot justify a burden on
interstate commerce by laying a similar burden on local
12
commerce.
Second. So far as the Fourteenth Amendment is concerned, Iowa may lay a tax on any activity of the respondent which it pursues within the State, but plainly,
upon the facts disclosed, there is, in the conduct of respondent's mail order business, no such local activity.
The Supreme Court of the State correctly found:
"The sales are consummated outside the State of Iowa
in each instance. They are separate and distinct from
plaintiff's activities in Iowa. The statute here challenged seeks to impose upon plaintiff the obligation that
it 'shall at the time of making such sales, whether within
or without the state, collect the tax imposed by this
chapter from the purchaser.' The sales are made outside
of Iowa and the statute requires plaintiff to collect the
tax at the time the sales are made. It clearly seeks
to regulate activities of plaintiff outside the state. ...
Under repeated pronouncements of the Supreme Court
of the United States, hereinbefore reviewed and quoted
from, the State of Iowa has no such right."
"Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, supra; Crew Levick
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

Delivery to a designated carrier is delivery to the customer "a and, in this case, is completed outside Iowa.
The attempt, therefore, to impose a burden upon such
delivery or to regulate the transaction is but an effort
on the part of Iowa to regulate or tax an event which
occurs outside her borders and over *hich she has no
jurisdiction." This court has recently enforced this
principle in a case on its merits more favorable to the
State's contention than the present.' There it was
said:
"It follows that such a tax, otherwise unconstitutional,
is not converted into a valid exaction merely because the
corporation enjoys outside the state economic benefits
from transactions within it, which the state might but
does not tax, or because the state might tax the transactions which the corporation carries on outside the state
if it were induced to carry them on within."
McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal Mining Co., 309
U. S. 33, is distinguishable from the instant case for
there the decision was grounded on the fact that the
transfer of title and consummation of sale depended upon
delivery by the seller in the taxing state.
In this aspect also the power of the State does not
extend to measures which condition respondent's privilege to do business in another state free from the regulation or taxation of Iowa."
The CHIEF JUSTICE joins in this opinion.
" United States v. R. P. Andrews & Co., 207 U. S. 229; compare
Garretson v. Selby, 37 Iowa 529.
St. Louis Cotton Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346.
'Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 303 U. S. 77.
York Life Ins. Co. v. Dodge, 246 U. S. 357, 375; Home
Insurance Co. v. Dick, 281 U. S. 397, 407; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134,.139.
'"

"°New

