WALKER v. JOHNSTON.
Argument for Petitioner.

WALKER v. JOHNSTON, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 173.

Argued January 15, 1941.-Decided February 10, 1941.

1. Under the statute governing habeas corpus, the writ may be
denied if, upon the face of the petition, it appears that the petitioner is not entitled to it. P. 284.
2. The practice of issuing an order to show cause and permitting.
the relator to reply to the respondent's return, thus avoiding useless issuance of the writ and production of the prisoner and
witnesses in cases where it appears upon the face of the papers
that no material issue of fact is involved and that as a matter of
law no cause for granting the writ exists,--is a settled practice
permitted by the statute. P. 284.
3. Where the petition and traverse on the one hand and the return
on the other raise substantial issues of fact the writ must be
granted, the prisoner produced and his case determined upon a
hearing of evidence and afgument; the 'statute does not allow a
disposition of the case upon ex parte affidavits. P. 285.
4. One who, through the deception or coercion. of the prosecuting
attorney, is induced to plead guilty to an indictment for a federal offense, without the advice of counsel and in ignorance of
his right to such advice, is deprived of a constitutional right.
P. 286.
5. On a hearing in habeas corpus, the prisoner is under the burden
of proving by a preponderance of evidence the facts which, lie'
alleges, entitle him to a discharge. P. 286.
109 F. 2d 436, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 635, to review the affirmance of a
judgment in habeas corpus discharging a rule to show
cause and dismissing the petition for the writ.

Mr. Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr. for petitioner, acting
under an assignment by the Court.
The application for the writ is good on its face. The
ultimate issue is one of fact. The District Court

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioner.

312 U. S.

should have issued the writ, held a full judicial inquiry
and specifically found the facts.
The allegations of the petition state a case of imprisonment in violation of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
This is shown by precedents in this Court, the historical
background of the Sixth Amendment, and modern views
of the rights of indigent prisoners. The case falls within
Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, and Powell v. Alabama,
'287 U. S. 45, which decide that an indigent prisoner
charged with a serious crime is entitled to the assign..
ment of counsel without cost, at every step of the proceedings, to aid him in scrutinizing the indictment and in
preparing the case as well as actually trying it.
The Sixth Amendment was, as contemporary evidence
indicates, designed to require in all serious criminal
prosecutions the same right to the free assignment of
counsel prior to arraignment which existed under the
English Treason Act of 1695 (well known to the American colonists by its citation in Blackstone, Commentaries,
Book IV, p. 356), and which was proposed to the French
draftsmen of the Declaration of Rights (LaRochelle,
Cahier du Tiers, III, 161). Furthermore, precedent and
history aside, modern commentators regard assistance
of counsel prior to arraignment as a prerequisite of due
process. See National Commission on Law Observance
and Enforcement (popularly known as the Wickersham
Commission), Report on Lawlessness in Law Enforcement, Vol. IV, pp. 5, 7, 281.
Since the application is good on its face, and the ultimate issue is one of fact, the District Court was required
by statute to issue the writ. R. S., §§ 755, 758. This is
the practice followed in the orders of this Court (Ng Fung
Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, 285) as well as in most,
though not all, of the inferior federal courts, and in England. It is a practice which is demanded by considerations of fair play, and has not been found inconvenient

WALKER v. JOHNSTON.
275

277

Argument for Respondent.

or impractical in Atlanta where one of the largest United
States penitentiaries is located. Moreover, convenience
is not an appropriate consideration in a proceeding that
places at stake liberty of the person.
When the petitioner is brought into court on the writ
he is entitled to a full inquiry into the facts and to specific findings of fact by the trial court. Moore v. Dempsey, 261 U. S.86, 92; Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458.
Mr. Herbert Wechsler, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle and Messrs. Wendell Berge and Alfred B. Teton
were on the brief, for respondent,
The Government concedes that petitioner's right to
the issuance of the writ of habeas corpus must be tested
by the allegations of the petition and traverse and the
uncontradicted or irrefutable allegations of the return.,
Neither the Fifth nor the Sixth Amendment requires
the court to assign counsel in the absence of a request,
unless the defendant is in apparent need of aid. Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S.458, distinguished. See Powell v.
Alabama, 287 U. S.45.
The distinction between a trial and a plea of guilty
as evidence of the need for counsel is the implicit basis
of the many decisions since Johnson v. Zerbst which
treat a voluntary plea of guilty, made without requesting
counsel, as a waiver of the right. A trial judge does not
accept a plea of guilty without assuring himself that it is
voluntary and competent, and if it is not, it can be set
aside. Frame v. Hudspeth, 309 U. S.632.
The allegations of the traverse do not establish a request for counsel or show that the plea was not voluntarily made. The sentence conformed to the petitioner's
expectation and was fair. It is not alleged that he had a
defense which he was induced to forego.
The right to counsel was waived. A waiver does not
always require "an intentional relinquishment or aban-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

donment of a known right." Johnson v. Zerbst, 304
U. S. at 464. Waiver may be implied as a matter of law
when reasons of extrinsic policy justify the implication.
Such reasons ordinarily exist when a defendant of mature age competently and voluntarily pleads guilty without requesting counsel.
Petitioner has not shown that he actually needed
counsel. Therefore the judgment can not be collaterally
attacked. Even if the Sixth Amendment is interpreted
to require that all defendants have counsel upon assignment or knowingly waive the right, it does not necessarily follow that whenever this has not occurred the
judgment isvoid and is open to collateral attack. The
concept of jurisdictional defect is not inflexible and
even the availability of habeas corpus may turn on judicial discretion.
It is not enough to show that the abstract right was
denied; petitioner must establish that he was in actual
need of counsel either in choosing his own course or in
presenting his case. Prejudice can not be implied when
a defendant understandingly pleads guilty to a valid
indictment; and certainly not when he is a man of mature age who has previously been-convicted of crime. In
the present case, the only significant complaint is that
petitioner did not know and was not told of his right to
counsel. Standing alone, this is insufficient.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents important questions of practice
touching the issue of the writ of habeas corpus. We accordingly granted certiorari in forma pauperis, and appointed counsel for the petitioner to insure adequate presentation at our bar.
The petitioner, who is confined in the Federal prison at
Alcatraz, California, under sentence and commitment of

WALKER v. JOHNSTON.
275

Opinion of the Court.

the District Court for Northern Texas upon a plea of
guilty to an indictment charging armed robbery of a
national'bank, sought habeascorpus in the District Court
for Northern California. His petition recites that he
was indicted in the District Court for Northern Texas
March 9, 1936; that the cause came on for trial April 28,
1936, and he pleaded guilty; that he was sentenced May
1, 1936, to twelve years' imprisonment, was committed
to the penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, May 4, 1936,
and is now confined at Alcatraz. The petition alleges
that at trial the petitioner was without the assistance of
counsel; that he did not waive his right to counsel; that
the court did not inquire whether he desired counsel or
instruct him that he was entitled to counsel; that he did
not know he was so entitled if he had no money to pay
an attorney; and that the judgment of conviction is void,
as he was deprived of the assistance of counsel for his
defense in violation of the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution. The prayer is that the writ issue and that he
be released from custody.
The court issued an order to show cause addressed to
the warden of the penitentiary. That officer filed a return showing that he held the prisoner under a commitment issued by the Texas District Court and a transfer
from Leavenworth to Alcatraz ordered by the Director
of the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice.
Attached to the return were certified copies of the indictment, minute entries, sentence, and commitment, and
docket entries in the cause, transfer order, and record.
of commitment. Also attached were affidavits of the
United States Attorney, the Assistant United States Attorney, and the Probation Officer (fornerly a deputy
marshal) of the Northern District of Texas. These affiants, or some of them, deposed to the following effect:
The petitioner was jointly indicted with one White, who
pleaded not guilty, was tried, convicted, and sentenced;

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

the petitioner had no counsel as he entered a plea of
guilty. At the time of the commission of the offense
for which the petitioner was indicted he was an escaped
convict from the State Penitentiary of New Mexico and
was brought thence for trial. On the day of the trial,
the marshal brought him to the Federhl building where
the District Attorney talked to him; asked him whether
he was guilty and he stated he was; asked him if he was
going to plead guilty and he stated he was; asked
him whether he had a lawyer and he stated he did
not want. an attorney as he thought an attorney
would be of no value to him. The District Attorney
explained to the petitioner that he thought the judge
would give him greater consideration, if he was guilty,
on his entering a plea of guilty. The petitioner was told
his interviewers believed that if he would tell the judge
the truth and testify in the case as to his accomplices
that fact would be considered by the judge in passing
sentence. Thepetitioner stated he would enter a plea
of guilty but would not testify. He refused to say
whether the co-defendant White was with him at the
time of the robbery and said that he would prefer not
to make a statement with respect to other facts in the
case. One affiant stated his belief that petitioner told
the judge in open court that he had no counsel and did
not desire any as he was guilty and intended to plead
guilty. Three witnesses identified the petitioner as being
one of the men who entered the bank and there was no
question of his guilt. After sentence, petitioner expressed
his satisfaction at the length of sentence imposed. Some
time later a letter was received from the petitioner thanking the District Attorney for what he had done for him.
The petitioner answered, denying that he had stated
to one or more of the affiants, or in the presence of one
or more of them, that he was guilty or that he intended

WALKER v. JOHNSTON.
275

Opinion of the Court.

to plead guilty; that he did not want an attorney or
felt that an attorney would be of no value to him. He
alleged that he first learned he was to be prosecuted for
the offense in question about April 26, 1936, when a deputy marshal took him from New Mexico to Texas; that,
prior to trial, the District Attorney, in the presence of
the deputy marshal, asked him to plead guilty and he
replied that he intended to plead not guilty, whereupon.
the District Attorney exhibited to him pictures of the
scene of the alleged crime and, by means of them and
otherwise, sought to persuade him that he would be
proved guilty; that the petitioner refused to talk further with the District Attorney at that time; that the
District Attorney again visited him and the petitioner then
requested that the trial be continued so that he could
communicate with his relatives and try to obtain money
to enable him to hire an attorney for his defense, but
that the District Attorney advised him this was not
possible and told him to plead guilty, warning him that
he would be sentenced to twice as great a term if he
did not so plead; that the petitioner had no relatives or
friends near the scene of the trial other than his codefendant White. He alleged that he requested the District Attorney to be permitted to talk to White or White's
attorney, but the request was refused. In view of the
District Attorney's warning, and in fear of a heavy prison
term, he told the District Attorney he would plead guilty.
The answer alleges that petitioner has no information
and belief sufficient to enable him to answer the statement concerning his letter claimed to have been sent
from the penitentiary and, therefore, denies the fact;
denies that the petitioner stated to the judge that he did
not desire counsel appointed for him or that he was
pleading guilty because he was guilty; alleges that at
no time was petitioner informed, did he know or believe

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

that he was entitled to the assistance of counsel for his
defense, and that at no time did anyone ask him if he
desired the assistance of counsel nor did anyone offer to
procure such assistance for him; avers that he was without money to pay for counsel and believed he could not
obtain the assistance of counsel without money to pay
a lawyer; asserts that he attended school to the fifth
grade and had had no further schooling or education,
was entirely unversed in the law and unable and unqualified to represent or act for himself in a criminal proceeding; that at no time was he asked to waive his right to
the assistance of counsel nor did he by word or act state
or indicate that he waived, or intended to waive, that
right; denies his guilt and denies that the evidence produced at trial showed his guilt.
Upon these pleadings the District Judge, after hearing
argument, discharged the rule to show cause and dismissed the petition for the writ. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed.'
The petitioner contended in the Circuit Court of Appeals that the statute required the District Court to issue
the writ and, upon his production in court, to hold a hearing on the issues made by the pleadings. The. court
found it unnecessary to pass on the contention, since it
held "another manner of proceeding" (that here followed by the District Court) was permissible under our
decisions. It approved the summary disposition of the
case on the pleadings and affidavits submitted, as the petitioner had been afforded an' opportunity to submit by
affidavit whatever he deemed material. It thought the
District Court was justified in disbelieving the petitioner's allegations and, on the basis of such disbelief, discharging the rule and denying the petition.
'109 F. 2d 436.

WALKER v. JOHNSTON.
275

Opinion of the Court.

-The case presents these questions: (1) Was the District
Court, on the filing of the petition, bound forthwith to'
issue the writ and have the petitioner produced in answer
to it? (2) If the procedure followed by the District
Court was permissible, and the pleadings raised issues of
fact, should those issues have been resolved by testimony
rather than upon affidavits? (3) Did the pleadings raise
any material issue of fact?
First. The statutes of the United States declare that
the supreme court and the district courts shall have
power to issue writs of habeas corpus; 2 that application
for the writ shall be made to the court or justice or judge
authorized to issue the same by complaint in writing,
under oath, signed by the petitioner, setting forth the
facts concerning his detention, in whose custody he is
and by virtue of what claim or authority, if known.'
The court or, justice or judge "shall forthwith award a
writ of habeas corpus, unless it appears from the petition
itself that the party is not entitled thereto." The writ
shall be directed to the person in whose custody the petitioner is detained.' The person to whom the writ is directed must certify to the court or judge the true cause of
detention and, at the same time he makes his return, bring
the body of the party before the judge who granted the
writ.' When the writ is returned a day is to be set for
the hearing, not exceeding five days thereafter, unless the
petitioner requests a longer time.' The petitioner may
deny the facts set forth in the return or may allege any
other material facts, under oath.7 The court or judge
'R.
'R.
'R.
R.
0
R.
'R.

S. 751, 28 U. S. C. 451.
S. 754, 28 U. S. C. 454.
S. 755, 28 U. S. C. 455.
S. 757, 28 U. S. C. 457; R. S. 758, 28 U. S. C. 458.
S. 759, 28 U. S. C. 459.
S. 760, 28 U. S. C. 460.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

"shall proceed in a summary way to determine the facts
of the case, by hearing the testimony and arguments, and
thereupon to dispose of the party as law -and justice
require." I
It will be observed that if, upon the face of the petition, it appears that the party is not entitled to the writ,
the court may refuse to issue it. Since the allegations of
such petitions are often inconclusive, the practice has
grown up of issuing an order to show cause, which the
respondent may answer. By this procedure the facts on
which the opposing parties rely may be exhibited, and
the court may find that no issue of fact is involved. In
this way useless grant of the writ with consequent production of the prisoner and of witnesses may be avoided
where from undisputed facts or from incontrovertible
facts, such as those recited in a court record, it appears,
as matter of law, no cause for granting the writ exists.
On the other hand, on the facts admitted, it may appear
that, as matter of law, the prisoner is entitled to the writ
and to a discharge. This practice has long been followed
by this court 9 and by the lower courts."0 It is a convenient one, deprives the petitioner of no substantial right,
if the petition and traverse are treated, as we think they
should be, as together constituting the application for the
writ, and the return to the rule as setting up the facts
thought to warrant its denial, and if issues of fact emerging from the pleadings are tried as required by the
statute.
Second. The District Court proceeded to adjudicate
the petitioner's right to the writ upon the allegations of
s R. S. 761, 28 U. S. C. 461.
'Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 653; Mooney v. Holohan, 294
U. S. 103, 111.
"sMurdockv. Pollock, 229 F. 392.

WALKER v. JOHNSTON.
275

285

Opinion of the Court.

his petition and traverse and those of the return and accompanying affidavits. Thus the case was disposed of on
ex parte affidavits and without the taking of testimony.
The practice thus to dispose of applications for habeas
corpus on matters of fact 'as well as of law has been followed in the Ninth and Tenth Circuits. 1
In other circuits, if an issue of fact is presented, the
practice appears to have been to issue the writ, have the
petitioner produced, and hold a hearing at which evidence
is received."' This is, we think, the only admissible procedure. Nothing less will satisfy the command of the
statute that the judge shall proceed "to determine the
facts of the case, by hearing the testimony and arguments." It is not a question what the ancient practice
was at common law or what the practice was prior, to
1867 when the statute from which R. S. 761 is derived
was adopted by Congress. The question is what the
statute requires.
. As we said in Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 466,
"Congress has expanded the rights of a petitioner for
habeas corpus ...
'There being no doubt of the. authority of the Congress to thus liberalize the common
law procedure on habeas corpus . . .it results that un-der the sections cited a prisoner in custody . . .may
have a judicial inquiry . . .into the very truth and sub"Harpin v. Johnston, 109 F. 2d 434; Franzeen v. Johnston, 111
F. 2d 817; Walker v. Chitty, 112 F. 2d 79; Zahn v. Hudspeth, 102
F. 2d 759; Nivens v. Hudspeth, 105 F. 2d 756; McCoy v. Hudspeth,
106 F. 2d 810; McDonald v. Hudspetl, 108 F. 2d 943; Moore v.
Hudspeth, 110 F. 2d 386; Taylor v. Hudspeth, 113 F. 2d 825.
12 Cundiff v. Nicholson, 107 F. 2d 162; Hurt v. Zerbst, 97 F. 2d
519; Brown v. Zerbst, 99 F. 2d 745; Mothershead v. King, 112 F.
2d 1004; Sanders v. Allen, 69 App. D. C. 307; 100 F. 2d 717;
Clawans v. Rives, 70 App. D. C. 107; 104 F. 2d 240; United States
v. Hiatt, 33 F. Supp. 545.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

stance of the causes of his detention,' ...
"
Such a
judicial inquiry involves the reception of testimony, as
the language of the statute shows.
The Government properly concedes that if the petition,
the return, and the traverse raise substantial issues of factit is the petitioner's right to have those issues heard and
determined in the manner the statute prescribes.
Third. Did the pleadings present any material issue of
fact? The Government says they did not. It urges that,
construed most favorably to petitioner, the allegations of
the petition and the traverse do not show that he was in
apparent or actual need of counsel's aid; and do disclose
that he voluntarily waived the right to counsel.
Without repeating the allegations of the petition and
traverse, which have been summarized above, we think
it clear that, taken together, they overcome the presumption of regularity which the record of the trial imports
and that, if the facts alleged were established by testimony to the satisfaction of the judge, they would support a conclusion that the petitioner desired the aid of
counsel, and so informed the District Attorney, was ignorant of his right to such aid, was not interrogated as to
his desire or informed of his right, and did not knowingly
waive that right, and that, by the conduct of the District
Attorney, he was deceived and coerced into pleading
guilty when his real desire was to plead not guilty or at
least to be advised by counsel as to his course. If he did
not voluntarily waive his right to counsel,"8 or if he was
deceived or coerced by-the prosecutor into entering a
guilty plea, 4 he was deprived of a constitutional right.
On a hearing he would have the burden of sustaining his
allegations by a preponderance of evidence. It is true
that they are denied in the affidavits filed with the return
"Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458.
"Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103.

DRIVERS UNION v. MEADOWMOOR CO. 287
275

Syllabus.

to the rule, but the denials only serve to make the issues
which must be resolved by evidence taken in the usual
way. They can have no other office. The witnesses who
made them must be subjected to examination ore tenus
or by deposition as are all other 'vitnesses. Not by the
pleadings and the affidavits, but by the whole of the testimony, must it be determined whether the petitioner has
carried his burden of proof and shown his right to a discharge. The Government's contention that his allegations are improbable and unbelievable cannot serve to
deny him an opportunity to support them by evidence.
On this record it is his right to be heard.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MILK WAGON DRIVERS UNION OF CHICAGO,
LOCAL 753, ET AL. V. MEADOWMOOR DAIRIES,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 1. Argued December 13, 16, 1940.-Decided February 10, 1941.
1. A State is at liberty under the Fourteenth Amendment to use
injunctive powers vested in its courts for the prevention of violence by labor unions in industrial disputes. P. 292..
2. And where the controversy is attended by peaceful picketing
and by acts of violence, and the violence has been such that continuation of the picketing will operate coercively by exciting fear
that violence will be resumed, an injunction by a state court forbidding the picketing as well as the violence does not infringe the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 294.
3. The master in the state court found "intimidation of the customers .. .by the commission of the acts of violence," and the
supreme court of the State justified its injunction against picketing because picketing, "in connection with or following a series

