OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

312 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORPORATION W AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 484. Argued March 6, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.
1. While the United States is a juristic person in the sense that it
can sue upon its contracts or in vindication of its property rights,
the term "person" does not include the sovereign, in common
usage, nor, ordinarily, when employed in statutes. P. 604.
2. The Sherman Antitrust Act, in creating new rights and remedies, allowed two classes of actions,-those made available only
to the Government, and a right of action for treble damages
granted to redress private injury. P. 608.
3. Section 7 of the Act, granting the right of action for treble damages, to "any person" injured in his business or property by "any
other person or corporation" by reason of anything forbidden by the
Act, does not give the United States a civil action for damages.
P. 606 et seq.
The text of the Act, taken in its natural and ordinary sense,
makes against the extension of the term "person" to include the
United States; and the usual aids to construction support this
conclusion.
114 F. 2d 413, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 639, to review the affirmance of

a judgment of the District Court, 31 F. Supp. 848, dismissing the complaint in an action by the United States
to recover treble damages under § 7 of the Sherman
Act.
Mr. Hugh B. Cox, with whom Solicitor General Biddle
and Assistant Attorney General Arnold were on the
brief, for the United States.
The words "any person," in § 7, are broad enough to
include the United States, because it is a juristic person
and as such is ordinarily entitled to all legal remedies
available to anyone else. Dugan v. United States, 3
Wheat. 172, 181; United States v. Gear, 3 How. 120;
Cotton v. United States, 11 How. 228, 231.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

601

Argument for the United States.

Section 8 was added for the purpose of making certain
that corporations would be subject to the Act and not
for the purpose of narrowing the scope of § 7. Any other
construction of § 8 would turn words of inclusion into
words of crippling limitation. Moreover, if Congress
had intended to exclude the United States in § 8 it would
have done so expressly and without ambiguity.
Inasmuch as § 7 is not limited by § 8, the words "any
person" in § 7 should be given the broad meaning which
Congress intended. The fact that § 7 does not refer expressly to the United States is not controlling. Stanley
v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508, 517; Helvering v. Stockholms
Enskilda Bank, 293 U. S. 84, 91-92; Nardone v. United
States, 302 U. S. 379. The statute is remedial and should
be liberally construed. Because it confers a general right
or remedy, the United States is entitled to its benefits
even though not expressly named. Dollar Savings Bank
v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 239.
The facts that the United States is the largest purchaser
of goods in the country and that its purchases are paid for
with public funds are persuasive reasons for giving to it
the remedy created by § 7. Experience has shown that
the United States, like any other purchaser, can be victimized by combinations and conspiracies. The other
remedies given by the Act to the United States in its sovereign or governmental capacity do not enable the United
States to deal with the problem of collusive bidding nor
do they protect it when it has been required by circumstances to purchase at collusive and noncompetitive prices.
There is no force in the argument that the remedies given
to the United States by way of indictment or injunction
are exclusive; those remedies cannot protect its proprietary interests or compensate it for the damages which
respondents have inflicted upon it.
If § 8 is to be regarded as limiting or qualifying § 7,
then the words of § 8 should be construed as including the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondents.

312 U. S.

United States. The United States can properly be regarded as a corporation or an association existing under
and authorized by the laws of the United States. The
definition of "person" in § 8 is obviously drawn to include
all kinds of corporations and associations. The purpose
of the definition is not served by draWing artificial distinctions between the United States and other corporations
and associations.
The legislative history of the antitrust laws does not
support the conclusion that Congress intended to discriminate against the United States and to deprive it of a
remedy open to every other juristic person. Davis v.
Pringle, 268 U. S. 315, is not controlling here. There the
United States was seeking priority in the distribution of
the assets of an insolvent estate. Here the United States
seeks not priority but equality of treatment with all other
juristic persons. Furthermore, the statute involved in
Davis v. Pringle, supra, gave to the United States a limited right of priority and the Court regarded this circumstance as indicating that Congress did not intend to give
any broader right of priority. Here, unless the United
States can sue under § 7, it is without a remedy and cannot
recover in any way for the damages which respondents
have inflicted upon it. The subsequent legislative history
of the Bankruptcy Act and subsequent decisions of this
Court create grave doubt as to whether Davis v. Pringle,
supra, lays down any' principle which now possesses
vitality.
Failure of the United States to assert its rights under
§ 7 is not entitled to any weight whatsoever as an administrative interpretation of the statute. Union Stock Yard
Co. v. UnitedStates, 308 U. S. 213, 224; Louisville & N. R.
Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 740, 757, 759; Kansas City
So. Ry. Co. v. United States, 252 U. S. 147, 151.
Mr. Luther Day, with whom Messrs. Robert Guinther,
Lyman M. Bass, Paul H. Arthur, John C. Bruton, Jr.,

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

Opinion of the Court.

Charles Wesley Dunn, Thurlow M. Gordon, Paul Van
Anda, and Joseph F. Murray were on the brief, for
respondents.
The Government is inviting this Court, as it has unsuccessfully invited the two courts below, to undertake, as
a judicial function, powers, of legislation.
If the United States needs any general right to sue for
damages under the Act, it needs at most a right to sue
for simple damages; no necessity exists to punish through
threefold damages in addition to fines, imprisonment, injunctions and forfeitures. It does not need the right to
sue for treble damages in order to obtain desired prices
on defense projects. The Government has in its possession weapons far more potent to achieve that resultas, e. g., its right to threaten, and if need be to use, the
statutory right of taking over the property of a vendor
who refuses to sell at prices deemed by the Government
to be reasonable. Section 9 of the Act of Sept. 16, 1940,
c. 720, 54 Stat. 885.
The Government must have statutory authorization
before it can sue for treble damages under the Sherman
Act. Such statutory authorization was intentionally denied by Congress.
That authority to sue for treble damages under the
Sherman Act is lacking, -has been the view of the courts,
the Department of Justice, and Congress, uniformly, for
fifty years.
MR. JusTcC, ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We took this case because it presents the important
question whether the United States may maintain an action for treble damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act.'
The complaint charged the respondents had illegally
'Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, 210.

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

combined and conspired to fix collusive prices of articles
purchased by the United States; alleged the money damage inflicted upon the United States thereby, and sought
judgment for three times that amount. The District
Court granted a motion to dismiss the complaint on the
ground that the United States is not a person as the term
is used in § 7 of the Sherman Act.' The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the judgment.'
Section 7 provides:
"Any person who shall be injured in his business or
property by any other person or corporation by reason of
anything forbidden or declared to be unlawful by this act,
may sue therefor in any circuit court of the United States
in the district in which the defendant resides or is found,
without respect to the amount in controversy, and shall
recover three fold the damages by him sustained, and the
costs of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee."
The United States is a juristic person in the sense that
it has capacity to sue upon contracts made with it or in
vindication of its property rights. The Sherman Act,
however, created new rights and remedies which are available only to those on whom they are conferred by the
Act.' The precise question for decision, therefore, is
whether, by the use of the phrase "any person," Congress
intended to confer upon the United States the right to
maintain an action for treble damages against a violator
of the Act.
Since, in common usage, the term "person" does not include the sovereign, statutes employing the phrase are
ordinarily construed to exclude it.' But there is no hard
231 F. Supp. 848.
' 114 F. 2d 413.
Wilder Mfg. Co. v. Corn Products Refining Co., 236 U. S. 165, 174;
Fleitmann v. Welsbach Street Lighting Co., 240 U. S. 27, 29; Geddes'v.
Anaconda Copper Mining Co., 254 U. S. 590, 593.
' United States v. Fox, 52 N. Y. 530; Id., 94 U. S. 315, 321.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

Opinion of the Court

and fast rule of exclusion. The purpose, the subject
matter, the context, the legislative history, and the executive interpretation of the statute are aids to construction
which may indicate an intent, by the use of the term, to
bring state or nation within the scope of the law.'
The Government admits that often the word "person"
is used in such a sense as not to include the sovereign but
urges that where, as in the present instance, its wider
application is consistent with, and tends to effectuate,
the public policy evidenced by the statute, the term should
be held to embrace the Government. And it strongly
urges that all the considerations which moved Congress
to confer the right to recover damages upon individuals
and corporations injured by violations of the Act apply
with equal force to the United States, which, as a large
procurer of goods and services, is as likely to be injured
by the denounced combinations and monopolies as is a
natural or corporate person. We are asked, in this view,
so to construe the Act as not to deny to the Government
what public policy is thought to require.
Decision is not to be reached by a strict construction of
the words of the Act, nor by the application of artificial
canons of construction. On the contrary, we are to read
the statutory language in its ordinary and natural sense,
and if, loubts remain, resolve them in the light, not only
of the policy intended to be served by the enactment,
but, as well, by all other available aids to construction.
But it is not our function to engraft on a statute additions
which we think the legislature logically might or should
have made.'
• *See Levy v. McCartee, 6 Pet. 102, 110; United States v. Freeman,
3 How. 556, 565; Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 370; Nardone v.
United States, 302 U. S. 379.
The Pedro, 175 U. S. 354, 364, Dewey v. United States, 178 U. S.
510, 519, 520; Pirie v. Chicago Title & T. Co., 182 U. S. 438, 451;
White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545, 551, 552; Ebert v. Poston, 266
U. S. 548, 554; Helvering v. Oregon Life Ins. Co., 311 U. S. 267, 272.

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

The recent expressions of this court in Tigner v. Texas,
310 U. S. 141, 148, 149, warn that it is not for the courts
to indulge in the business of policy-making in the field of
antitrust legislation. Congress has not left us at large
to devise every feasible means for protecting the Government as a purchaser. It is the function of Congress to
fashion means to that end, and Congress has discharged
this duty from time to time according to its own wisdom.
Our function ends with the endeavor to ascertain from
the words used, construed in the light of the relevant
material, what was in fact the intent of Congress.
1. Without going beyond the words of the section, the
use of the phrase "any person" is insufficient to authorize
an action by the Government. This conclusion is supported by the fact that if the purpose was to include the
United States, "the ordinary dignities of speech would
have led" to its mention by name.8 It is supported also
by the collocation of the phrase in the section. The provision is that "any person" injured by violation of the
Act "by any other person or corporation" may maintain
an action for treble damages against the latter. It is
hardly credible that Congress used the term "person" in
different senses in the same sentence. Yet, unless it did,
the United States would not only be entitled to sue but
would be liable to suit for treble damages. The more
natural inference, we think, is that the meaning of the
word was in both uses limited to what are usually known
as natural and artificial persons, that is, individuals and
corporations. In addition, the concluding words of the
section give the injured party, as part of his costs, a reasonable attorney's fee,-a provision more appropriate for
a private litigant than for the United States.
2. The connotation of a term in one portion of an Act
may often be clarified by reference to its use in others.
8

Davis v. Pringle, 268 U. S. 315, 318.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

Opinion of the Court.

The word "person" is used in severai sections other than
§ 7. In §§ 1, 2, and 3 the phrase designating those liable
criminally is "every person who shall" etc. In each instance it is obvious that while the term "person" may well
include a corporation it cannot embrace the United States.
In § 8 Congress attempted to make clear that the term
"person" is to include a Corporation. The provision is
"that the word 'person,' or 'persons,' wherever used in this
act shall be deemed to include corporations and associations existing under or authorized by the laws of either
the United States, the laws of any of the Territories, the
laws of any State, or the laws of any foreign country."
The very fact, however, that this sweeping inclusion of
various entities was thought important to preclude any
narrow interpretation emphasizes the fact that if the
United States was intended to be included Congress would
have so provided expressly. We may say in passing that
the argument thatethe United States may be treated as
a corporation organized under its own laws, that is, under
the Constitution as the fundamental law, seems so strained
as not to merit serious consideration. It is-fair to assume
that the term "person," in the absence of an indication to
the contrary, was employed by the Congress throughout
the Act in the same, and not in different, senses.
3. The scheme and structure of the legislation are likewise important to a proper ascertainment of its purpose
and intent. Sections 1, 2, and 3 impose criminal sanctions for violations of the acts denounced in those sections
respectively. Section 4 gives jurisdiction to the federal
courts of proceedings by the Government to restrain violations of the Act and imposes upon United States Attorneys the duty to institute equity proceedings to that end.
Section 5 regulates service in such suits. Section 6 authorizes seizure, in the course of interstate transportation, of
goods owned under any contract or pursuant to any conspiracy made illegal by the statute.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1940.
'Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Thus far the Act deals in detail with the criminal and
civil remedies of the Government in vindication of the
policy of the legislation. There follows § 7, the only other
substantive section, giving a civil action for an injury to
property rights.
It seems evident that the Act envisaged two classes of
actions,-those made available only to the Government,
which are first provided in detail, and, in addition, a right
of action for treble damages granted to redress private
.injury. If this be the fair construction of the Act, the
Court's task is finished when it gives effect to the purposes
of the law, evidenced by the various remedies it affords
for different situations. Though the law gave a remedy
by way of injunction at the suit of the United States,
we were pressed to say that a private person should have
the same remedy. We were compelled to answer that
Congress had not seen fit so to provide.' For the like
reasons we cannot hold that since a private purchaser is
given a remedy for his losses in treble damages, the United
States should be awarded the same remedy.
4. Supplemental legislation lends support to the view
that Congress had in mind the distinction between public and private remedies and did not intend to confer a
right of action on the United States by the use of the
phrase "any person" in § 7. The antitrust provisions of
the Wilson Tariff Act 10 follow the same pattern as the
Sherman Act. Section 73 " denounces combinations and
agreements between parties importing articles from a
foreign country and declares that every person guilty of
'Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 71; Paine Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S. 459. The Act was amended to authorize
suits for injunctions by private litigants. See the Clayton Act of
October 15, 1914, e.323, § 16, 38 Stat. 730, 737; 15 U. S. C. § 26.
"Act of August 27, 1894, c.349, 28 Stat. 509, as amended by Act
.of Feb. 12.1913, c. 40, 37 Stat. 667; 15 U. S. C. § 8.
"28 Sta, 570, 37 Stat. 667.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

Opinion of the Court.

violation of its terms shall be punished. Section 74 confers jurisdiction upon the federal courts and authorizes
proceedings in equity by the United States to restrain
such acts. Section 76 provides for seizure and forfeiture
of property imported into the United States contrary to
law and § 77 gives an action for treble damages to any
person against any other person or corporation in the
exact words of §,7 of the Sherman Act.
The antidumping provisions of the Revenue Act of
1916 12 make it a criminal offense for "any person" importing articles from a foreign country to sell, or cause
to be imported or sold, such articles within the United
States at substantially less than the market value of such
articles at the time of exportation in the principal markets of the country of production, etc. They further
declare that any person injured in his business or property by any violation may sue therefor in the United
States courts and recover threefold damages and costs,
including a reasonable attorney's fee. It must be obvious that the United States cannot be embraced by the
phrase "any person" there used.
When Congress came to supplement the Sherman Act
by the Clayton Act," it included in the latter a significant section bearing upon the question under consideration. Doubts had arisen as to whether issues adjudicated
in a criminal proceeding or a suit in equity brought by
the United States should be taken as concluded in an action for treble damages subsequently brought by an
injured party. By § 5 of the Clayton Act it was sought
to give such adjudication that effect. The section
provides:
"A final judgment or decree hereafter rendered in any
criminal prosecution or in any suit or proceeding in
Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 798, 15 U. S. C.
§ 72.
'Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730.
301335 .- 41-39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

equity brought by or on behalf of the United States
under the antitrust laws to the effect that a defendant
has violated said laws shall be prima facie evidence
against such defendant in any suit or proceeding brought
by any other party against such defendant under said
laws as to all matters respecting which said judgment or
decree would be an estoppel as between the parties thereto: Provided, This section shall not apply to consent
judgments or decrees entered before any testimony has
been taken."
Immediately following this provision the section con-tinues:
"Whenever any suit or proceeding in equity or criminal
prosecution is instituted by the United States to prevent,
restrain or punish violations of any of the antitrust laws,
the running of the statute of limitations in respect of
each and every private right of action arising under said
laws and based in whole or in part on any matter complained of in said suit or proceeding shall be suspended
during the pendency thereof."
Here again it seems clear that Congress recognized the
distinction between proceedings initiated by the Government to vindicate public rights and actions by private
litigants for damages.
It should be noted that § 1 of the Clayton Act again
defined the term "person" exactly as it was defined by § 8
of the Sherman Act, and § 4 again enacted that any person injured by a violation might recover treble damages
together with a reasonable attorney's fee.
5. There has been a considerable body of judicial expression to the effect that § 7 authorizes an action for
damages only by private suitors and not by the Government." While none of the cases presented the exact ques" Pidcock v. Harrington,64 F. 821, 822; Lowenstein v. Evans, 69 F.
908, 911; Greer, Mills & Co. v. Stoller, 77 F. 1, 3; City of Atlanta v.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

611

Opinion of the Court.

tion here involved, the statements bearing on the subject
exhibit a uniform opinion contrary to the Government's
present contention.

6. The legislative history is persuasive that the Sherman
Act was not intended to give the United States a civil
action for damages. Senator Sherman, on March 18, 1890,
introduced a bill which, in § 1, provided that the United
States might bring various civil actions and, in § 2, that
"any person" should be entitled fo sue any "person" or
"corporation' for double damages. 5
In the discussion of the bill it was pointed out that § 1
authorized the United States to bring civil actions including those for simple damages and that, under § 2, private
parties were entitled to sue for double damages. Senator
Sherman stated that § 2 gave a right to sue for double
damages only to private parties and not to the United
ChattanoogaFoundry Co., 101 F. 900, 904; Standard Sanitary Mfg.
Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20, 52; United States v. Patterson,
201 F. 697, 714; General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore & Michigan
So. Ry. Co., 260 U. S.261, 286; Glenn Coal Co. v. Dickinson Fuel Co.,
72 F. 2d 885, 889 Quemos Theatre Co. v. Warner Bros. Pictures,
35 F. Supp. 949, 950; Tigner v. Texas, 310 U. S. 141, 148.
""Section 1:
.. And the circuit court of the United States shall have original
jurisdiction of all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity
arising under this section, and to issue all remedial process, orders, or
writs proper and necessary to enforce its provisions. And the Attorney-General and the several district attorneys are hereby directed, in
the name of the United States, to commence and prosecute all such
cases to final judgment and execution."
"Section 2:
"That any person or corporation injured or damnified by such
arrangement, contract, agreement, trust, or combination defined in
the first section of this Act may sue for and recover, in any court of
the United States of competent jurisdiction, without respect to the
amount involved, of any person or corporation a party t.- a combination
described in the first section of this Act, twice the amount of damages
sustained and the costs of the suit, together with a reasonable
attorney's fee."

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

States. He stated that the civil suit by the United States
authorized by § 1 might be for an ouster of the power of
the corporation, for damages, or in quo warranto, and
added: "But the second section provides purely a personal remedy, a civil suit also by citizens of the United
States." 16

As is well known, after Senator Sherman's bill had been
amended, Senator Hoar rewrote most of the bill. In so
doing he eliminated § 1 with its provision for civil suits
by the United States and substituted §§ 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6,
specifying the remedies, civil, criminal, and by way of
forfeiture, available to the United. States. In that revision he retained, with slight change, § 2 of the bill, increasing the recoverable damages to treble instead of double,
and renumbered the section as § 7. In this form the bill
was adopted.
As already stated, the language of § 7 of the Sherman
Act was repeated in later statutes extending the antitrust
laws although in the meantime this and other courts had
expressed the view that the section accorded the Government no right of suit for treble damages. When the
Clayton Act was before the Senate, Senator Culberson,
Chairman of the Committee which reported the bill,
enumerated the usual types of action prosecuted under
the Sherman Act,-criminal prosecutions, suits in equity,
and actions for damages, and stated with respect to Government suits under the Sherman Act and the Clayton
Act: "There is no suit authorized by any of these statutes
except a criminal prosecution or a suit in equity. The
United States does not bring a suit at law for
damages." "
" 21 Cong. Rec. 2563-2564.
" 51 Cong. Rec. 13898. Statements by members of the House
Judiciary Committee indicate a similar view: 51 Cong. Rec. 9079,
9490. Represvntative Webb the chairman .of that Committee mentioned the civil remedies available under the bill as treble damage

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

613

Opinion of the Court.

In 1926 the Attorney General, in response to a Senate
Resolution asking for information with respect to cases
instituted under the first seven sections of the Sherman
Act, wrote: "Under Section 7, which gives to private
persons the right to sue for injuries arising under the act,
a number of actions have been instituted. The United
States, however, under the statute is not a party to suits
under that section." 18
Senator O'Mahoney has introduced a bill, which is
pending as S. 2719, prepared jointly by him and by the
Assistant Attorney General in charge of antitrust matters. On June 28, 1939, the Senator stated that the purpose of the bill was to provide more effective civil remedies. In the course of his statement he said: "There is
only one other remedy worth mentioning available under existing law to the Department of Justice-the civil
action for an injunction. In addition, there is the action
in damages by a private person who has been injured.
Neither of these remedies is effective." He further
stated: "The bill permits the United States, in effect,
to bring a suit for damages against an offending corporation and against its individual directors and officers." '9
7. It is significant that, in the light of the expressions
by the courts, the supplemental legislation, and the legislative history, no action has ever been brought by the
United States under § 7 in the fifty years during which
actions by persons, suits by the Federal Trade Commission, suits
by the United States for injunctions, and similar suits by persons.
He then said "Certainly the remedies are cumulative. The remedies,
pile up, and all of the remedies are open to the individual and to
the Government in a suit." 51 Cong. Rec. 16276. But obviously
he meant that the remedies given the public and the individual
respectively were cumulative, as they clearly are; for it is plain the
remedy given the Federal Trade Commission is not afforded to the
individual.
* Sen. Doe. No. 79, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 1.
84 Cong. Rec. 8192.

614

'

OCTOBER TERM, 1940,
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.,

the statute has been in force until the present action
was instituted. Down to the close of the year 1937,
428 criminal prosecutions and suits in equity had been
instituted by the Govermnent.0 Down to December,
1939, 103 civil suits had been instituted by private persons, including corporations.2 In the meantime the
World War intervened with the Government a purchaser
of eno-,mous quantities of material and supplies. Then,
as now, the complaint was prevalent that agreements
and conspiracies existed to fix and maintain prices of
materials needed by the Government. And throughout
the life of the legislation able and vigilant officials devoted to enforcement of the policy of the Sherman Act
have not been wanting.
In these circumstances the conviction that no right to
sue had been given the Government, rather than a supine
neglect to resort to an available remedy, seems to us the
true explanation of the fact that no such actions have
been instituted by the United States.
In summary, we are of opinion that the text of the
Act, taken in its natural and ordinary sense, makes
against the extension of the term "person" to include
the United States, and that the usual aids to construotion, taken together, instead of inducing the contrary
conclusion, go to support the view that Congress did
not use the word in the sense for which the Government
contends.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
"Federal Antitrust Laws," published by the Department of Justice January 1938.
149 Yale Law Journal 296.
20

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

615

BLACK, J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.

In order to give purchasers of goods-an opportunity to
buy them at prices fixed by competitive trade, the Sherman Act made it illegal to fix prices by combination or
conspiracy. It is difficult for me to believe that Congress
did not intend to give equal protection to all purchasers
similarly injured. In my judgment, no language of that
Act, nothing in its history, and no argument now presented
for our consideration makes necessary the conclusion that
Congress intended to discriminate in favor of some purchasers and against others. It would require clear and
unequivocal statutory language to persuade me that Congress intended to grant a remedy to all except one of those
who were injured by trust prices-the "all" including every
natural and artificial person, every corporation and association,1 foreign and domestic, and the single exception
'A 1940 report to the Senate,-made by the Secretary of the Treasury
pursuant to a Senate Resolution, revealed that the federal government
was transacting part of its business through the medium of at least
1469 government corporations. Senate Document No. 172, 76th Cong.,
3rd Sess., Part 1, Ii. 4. The judgment here does not foreclose such
corporations from suing for damages under § 7, or so I assume. If
I am correct in my assumption, the result is that as to those purchases
made by its corporate agencies, the Government is protected by the
Sherman Act, while as to those purchases made by its non-corporate
agencies, it is not so protected. A process of statutory construction
which results in giving to government corporations a right denied to
constitutionally authorized government departments seems to me to
.conflict with the frequently declared rule that a statute should not be
interpreted in such way as to produce an unreasonable or unjust result.
See United States v. American Trucking Associations, 310 U. 8. 534,
542-543; Sorrells v. United States, 287 U. S. 435, 446.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

being the United States, which buys more goods and services than any other single purchaser.2 No such clear and
unequivocal statutory language exists. And no plausible
reason has been hazarded to prove that the government
as a purchaser of goods needs less protection from unlawful combinations than do other buyers.' Many deplorable
instances in our history, in fact, indicate the contrary.
Congress, no doubt stimulated to action by these historical
occurrences, has by numerous enactments recognized the
urgent necessity for safeguarding governmental purchases.
of goods and services against unfair and collusive pricefixing. To that end, competitive bidding as a prerequisite
to government contracts has been the general statutory
rule over a long period of years, and combinations to de-prive the government of the advantages of such competition have been made criminal. -It is therefore strange
indeed that the Sherman Act, the greatest of all legislative
efforts to make competition, not combination, the law of
trade, should now be found to afford a greater protection
against collusive price-fixing to every other buyer in the
United States than is afforded to the United States itself.
So much for what seems to me to be the logical approach to the problem, and the one that should cause
us to say that the government can sue for damages. If,
however, we apply familiar canons of construction, I
think we are led to the same result. For it is a primary
principle that a law should be construed so as to carry
'For a recent study, see "Government Purchasing-An Economic
Commentary," Monograph No. 19 of the Temporary National Economic Committee (1940).
'An argument is 'offered to the effect that the government has no
need of a right to damages, because it has the power to bring criminal
and injunctive proceedings. But the right to bring those proceedings
is given to the government for the protection of the public, rather
than for its self-protection as a purchaser. Further, criminal and
injunctive proceedings, whatever their efficacy, do not achieve the
object of § 7, which is to indemnify all injured purchasers.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

BLACK, J., dissenting.

out its purpose, in the light of the evil aimed at and the
protection intended to be afforded. Here, among the
evils legislated against was price-fixing by combination,
and among the remedies afforded was the giving of a
right of action to purchasers injured by prices so fixed.
The result of this case-denying to the largest single purchaser of all goods manufactured and sold in the nation
the protection afforded by this legislation-is to restrict
the remedy in such way that the evil aimed at is less
likely to be suppressed. For the construction given the
Sherman Act, insofar as sales to the government and civil
damages are concerned, enables those guilty of violating
it to elude its provisions, escape its consequences, and
defeat its objects.
Nor do I believe that the previous failure of the Attorneys General of the United States to bring actions similar to this should be deemed a persuasive reason to read
the government out of the Act's benefits. The 1926
statement of the Attorney General to the effect that
"the United States... is not a party to suits under"
§ 7 does not supply such a reason. For in the quoted
statement the Attorney General did not take the position that the government lacked the power to sue for
civil damages; apparently what he had reference to was
the fact that the Sherman Act did not make the United
States a party to actions for civil damages by private
persons against private persons. We do not know and
cannot possibly determine why no prior suits were instituted for the benefit of the government. To assign reasons for such inactiorr is but to guess. And the guesses
would doubtless vary almost in accordance with the preconceived notions of the guessers. But whatever might
have been the reasons behind the government's failure
to sue, sure it is that the Attorney General is not the
purchasing agent of the government. He cannot be assumed to have constant knowledge of the manifold prob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

312 U..S.

lems that face those who buy the government's supplies.
In the final analysis, it is probably true that even an
Attorney General who might zealously desire to enforce
the criminal provisions of the Sherman Act would not
likely be stimulated to institute civil proceedings for
damages unless his attention was directed to the point
by keenly alert and diligent purchasing agencies. To
attempt to construe the Sherman Act by a vain effort
to appraise the reasons responsible for the non-action of
Attorneys General is a journey into the realm of imponderables I find it unnecessary to take. I would simply
read the Act from its language and manifest purpose as
giving all purchasers of goods a right to sue if they have
been injured as the result of prices held up by those
types of unlawful combination condemned by the Act.'
The principle of strict construction now adopted in
this case, resulting as it does in denying to the government the benefit of § 7 of the Sherman Act, is a radical
departure from a long established policy under which the
courts have construed laws most liberally in order to de4

Though the Act is all-inclusive in naming those who may sue for
damages, it is not equally all-inclusive in describing those acts which
may be regarded as unlawful combinations. This is true both because
of the original language and objects of the Sherman Act itself, and
because of subsequent legislation. The most notable example of
such subsequent legislation is that pyrtion of the Clayton Act which
provides: "The labor of a human being is not a commodity or article
of commerce. Nothing contained in the antitrust laws shall be
construed to forbid the existence and operation of labor, agricultural,
or horticultural organizations .

.

. or to forbid or restrain individual

members of such organizations from lawfully carrying out the legitimate objects thereof; nor shall such organizations, or the members
thereof, be held or construed to be illegal combinations or conspiracies in restraint of trade, under the antitrust laws." 38 Stat. 731,
15 U. S. C. § 17. See Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER CORP.
600

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

clare the government entitled to their benefits.5 And
certainly it can hardly be denied that the language of the
Act, giving all persons a right of action, should if liberally construed be held to justify suit by the United
States. For in Cotton v. United States, 11 How. 229,
231, _decided forty years before the Sherman Act was
adopted, this Court said -in speaking of the United
States: "Every sovereign State is of necessity a body
politic, or artificial person, and as such-capable of making contracts and holding property. .

.

. It would pre-

sent a strange anomaly, indeed, if, having the power to
make contracts and hold property as other persons,
natural or artificial, they were not entitled to the same
remedies for their protection." And, speaking in similar
vein in Helvering v. Stockholms Enskilda Bank, 293
U. S. 84, 92, after having cited Blackstone for the proposition that the sovereign is a "corporation," and after
having gone even beyond this to hold that the statutory
word "resident" included the United States, the Court
said: "This may be in the nature of a legal fiction; but
legal fictions have an appropriate place in the adminisIt is argued that if the government can sue for damages it may
also be sued for damages. That question is not before us and
need not be decided. Other principles will be material if such a
question ever should be presented. See United States v. Sherwood,
ante, p. 584; Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S. 379, 383-384;
United States v. Knight, 14 Pet. 301, 315. Among these principles
the most important is that of sovereign immunity. "The sovereignty of the United States raises a presumption against its suability,
unless it is clearly shown; nor should a court enlarge its liability to
suit beyond what the language [of the statute in question] requires."
Eastern Transportation Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 675, 686;
Price v. United States, 174 U. S. 373, 375-376; United States v.
Sherwood, ante, 584.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

tration of the law rwhen they are required by the demands of convenience and justice."' 6
These particular cases are but facets of a general rule
that has long been accepted-the United States can
exercise all of the legal remedies which other persons,
bodies or associations can exercise, both at common law
and under statutes,' unless there is something in a
statute or in its history to indicate an intent to deprive
the United States of that right.8 In this case, nothing
in the Sherman Act itself and nothing in its legislative
history makes necessary the conclusion that Congress
intended to withhold from the United States a remedy
given to all other purchasers.' Under these ,circumstances, it is my opinion that the judgment below should
be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR. JUsTIcE DOUGLAS join in

this dissent.

'To this statement the Court added: "If to carry out the purposes
of a statute it be admissible to construe the word 'person' as including
the United States [cases to that effect having previously been cited],
it is hard to see why, in like circumstances, it is inadmissible to construe the word 'resident' as likewise including the United States."
Cf. Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 370-71; Stanley v. Schwalby,
147 U. S. 508, 517.
'See Dugan v. United States, 3 Wheat. 172; United States v.
Gear, 3 How. 120; Cotton v. United States, supra. Cf. Dollar Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227; United States v. Chamnberlin, 219 U. S. 250.
'Cf. Davis v. Pringle, 268 U. S. 315.
'The legislative history of the Sherman Act is not enlightening on
the question now before us. At best, all that can be said of the
very few and scattered statements that were made on the subject
during the debates on the Clayton Act is that they look both ways.

