OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

Further contentions that the findings, and particularly
the finding that classification in the industry is unnecessary, and the subsidiary findings as to differences in
transportation, living, and production costs, are unsupported by substantial evidence are addressed either to
the weight and dependability of the evidence supporting the findings or to the testimony of particular witnesses or conflicting evidence on which petitioners rely.
We have examined these contentions and, without further elaboration of the details of the evidence, we
conclude that the Administrator's findings are supported by substantial evidence. Any different; conclusion would require us toiubstitute our judgment of the
weight of the evidence and the inferences to be drawn
from it for that of the Administrator which the statute
forbids.
Numerous other contentions are advanced by petitioners but they are subsidiary to those which we have
already considered, or are of such slight'moment as to
call for no further discussion.

Affirmed.

PALMER ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. WEBSTER AND ATLAS NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 120.

Argued January 8, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.

1. Trustees of a railroad in reorganization proceedings under § 77
of the Bankruptcy Act, who, after rejection of leases of other
lines, continue pursuant to § 77 (c) (6) to operate them "for the
account of the lessor," are not required by the Act of June 18, 1934,
by § 65 of the Judicial Code, or by § 77 (c) (6), to advance funds,
without security, out of the estate of the railroad for the payment
of obligations to creditors of the former lessors, which payment
is not essential to continued operation of the lines. P. 162.
2. How far cash advances to the former lessors should go; whether
the security for further advances is adequate; and whether ad-

PALMER v. WEBSTER & ATLAS BANK. 157
156

Opinion of the Court.

vances are necessary to continued operation, are all questions to
be decided by the District Court having jurisdiction of the reorganization proceedings. Upon the facts of this case, the District
Court exercised a sound discretion in ordering the trustees to
withhold further cash payments in respect of obligations of the
former lessors. P. 167.
3. The question whether under a statute of the State the railroad
is directly liable in respect of the obligations in question, is not
presented by the record and is not decided. P. 168.
111 F. 2d 215, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 625, to review the reversal of an
order or the District Court directing the trustees of a
railroad in reorganization proceedings under § 77 of the
Bankruptcy Act to withhold certain payments out of the
estate.

Mr. Hermon J. Wells for petitioners.
Mr. Robert H. Davison, with whom Mr. Oscar W.
Haussermannwas on the brief, for respondent.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Robert H. Hopkins for
the City of Boston, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In proceedings for the reorganization of the New York,
New Haven and Hartford Railroad under § 77 of the
Bankruptcy Act,1 the District Court, in response to a
petition of the trustees, ordered them to withhold payment of taxes assessed upon the property of Boston Terminal Company aid franchise taxes and bond interest
owed by the same company.2 . The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed on the ground that statutes of the
'11 U. S. C. § 205.
2

The order also directed the trustees to withhold payment of

taxes approximating $613,000 due by Old Colony Railroad Company,. and Boston and Providence Railroad Corporation to Massa-

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

UnIted States compelled payment by the trustees.3 The
importance of the questions involved, and a conflict of
decision,4 moved us to grant certiorari.
In 1888 Boston and Providence Railroad Corporation
leased its property to Old Colony Railroad Company
for a term of 99 years. In 1893 Old Coldny leased its
property, including its leasehold interest in the Boston
and Providence property, to*New Haven for a term of
99 years. Boston was then served by four railroads
entering the city from the South and West: the two
lessors, New England Railroad Company, and Boston
and Albany Railroad Company.
In 1896 Massachusetts, by a special act, incorporated
The Boston Terminal Company,' with power to construct and maintain a union passenger station in the
southerly part of Boston, and to provide and operate
terminal facilities "for the several railroad companies"
by the act "authorized to hold the stock" of the company.
The Act sets the capital stock at $500,000, and provides
that Boston and Albany, New England, Boston and Providence, Old Colony, "and the New York, New Haven and
Hartford Railroad Company, being lessee of Old Colony
Railroad Company, may each subscribe for and hold"
one-fifth thereof.
The management of the company's affairs is vested
in five trustees, one to be appointed by each of the five
stockholding companies.
All the named railroads, including the New Haven,
are required to use the terminal for all their terminal
chusetts, and taxes approximating $76,000 due by the same
companies to Rhode Island. That portion of the order is not involved in this case.
'111 F. 2d 215.
'See PhiladelphiaCo. v. Dippie, post, pp. 168, 169-170.
'Act of June 9, 1896, Massachusetts Acts and Resolves, 1896, Ch.
516, p. 520.

PALMER v. WEBSTER & ATLAS BANK.
156

159

Opinion of the Court.

passenger business in Boston. They are to pay to the
terminal company for such use the amounts needed to
cover the company's expenses, including interest upon its
bonds, and taxes. Each railroad is required to pay in
proportion to its use, as agreed amongst them, or, in
default of agreement, according to the proportion determined by the railroad commissioners (now the Department of Public Utilities).
The real estate of the terminal company "required by
this act to be used by said railroad companies shall be
assessed to and the taxes thereon shall be paid by said
railroad companies, and in the assessment of franchise
taxes upon said railroad companies each of them shall
be deemed to be the owner of said real estate in the
proportion in which it then has the use thereof under
this act."
In 1905 New England was merged into New Haven.'
Later Boston and Albany leased its property to the New
York Central. Thereafter, in 1921, the Massachusetts
Act of June 9, 1896, was amended I to give the New York
Central, as lessee, the right to hold stock of the terminal
company and, during the term of the lease, to exercise
all the powers by the Act conferred on Boston and Albany. The total use of the terminal thereafter was by
New York Central, as lessee of Boston and Albany, by
New Haven, as lessee of Old Colony, and by New Haven,
as owner of the New England line. During the period
involved in this case there was no use of the terminal
by the New Haven trustees on behalf of the New England line.8
'Massachusetts Acts and Resolves 1905, Ch. 252; Rhode Island
Acts and Resolves, 1915, p. 452, § 4.
' Act of May 7, 1921, Massachusetts Acts and Resolves, 1921, Ch.
363, p. 391.
'It is asserted by respondent that such use has been resumed, but,
if this be the fact, it is irrelevant to any issue in the case. No
payment in respect of New England use is in question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court

312 U. S.

In 1931 the Department of Public Utilities of Massachusetts determined that the proportion of use of the
union station and facilities was seventy per cent. by New
Haven and thirty per cent. by New York Central. No
reapportionment has since been made.
New Haven filed its petition for reorganization in the
District Court for Connecticut October 23, 1935. At that
time the lines of Old Colony and Boston and Providence
came into the custody of the court as a part of the New
Haven system. The court directed continued operation
of the system and appointed trustees. Old Colony filed
its petition for reorganization in the New Haven proceeding June 3, 1936, and the court appointed the same
persons trustees as had been appointed upon the New
Haven petition. Boston and Providence initiated a reorganization proceeding in the District Court for Massachusetts August 5, 1938, and trustees of its property were
appointed by that court. The New Haven trustees disaffirmed and rejected the Old Colony lease June 2, 1936,
and the trustees of Old Colony rejected the Boston and
Providence lease July 19, 1938. Under orders of the
District Court for Connecticut, made pursuant to the
provisions of § 77 (c) (6), the New Haven trustees have
continued to operate both Old Colony and Boston and
Providence railroads for the account of the former lessors.9 The trustees have kept their accounts covering
the operations of the two lines according to a segregation and allocation of expenses and revenues approyed by
the Interstate Commerce Commission and by the District
Court and confirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals."0
In the accounting, the seventy per cent. of the use of
'See Palmer v. Palmer, 104 F. 2d 161; Palmer v. Warren, 108 F.
2d 164, affirmed Warren v. Palmer,310 U. S. 132.
"°Pursuant to § 77 (e) (6), 77 (c) (10); see Palmer v. Palmer,
supra, Note 9.

PALMER v. WEBSTER & ATLAS BANK. 161
156

Opinion of the Court.

the terminal facilities formerly charged to New Haven
as lessee is charged by the trustees to Old Colony and
Boston and Providence operations in proportion to use.
The trustees' operation of Old Colony and Boston and
Providence properties has resulted in losses exceeding
$20,000,000 in the period between October 23, 1935, and
December 31, 1939. This excess of expenditures over
receipts is secured by liens on the properties. Payment
of the taxes and bond interest of Boston Terminal Company has required cash advances increasing the accumulating deficit at the rate of approximately $800,000 per
annum. The trustees believe that the properties of the
lessors are insufficient to secure repayment of further
cash advances by the New Haven estate and that to make
them will jeopardize the claims of New Haven's own secured creditors. In a petition of October 17, 1939, they
set forth the facts and stated their view that they should
not make further advances for payment of Boston Terminal taxes and bond interest for the account of the Old
Colony and Boston and Providence estates. Notice of
hearing was given and a number of interested parties
appeared. The District Court announced its opinion and
entered an order, October 30, 1939, directing the trustees
to withhold the payments in question. Old Colony
Trust Company, the trustee under the mortgage of the
terminal company, appealed. The appeal was prosecuted in the Circuit Court of Appeals by its successor
trustee, Webster and Atlas National Bank, the respondent in this court.
The District Court overruled the contention that § 77
(c) (6) imposes an obligation on the trustees of New
Haven in behalf of creditors of the lessors. The court
held that the section requires the continued operation of
the lessors' property, if the lessors are unable to operate,
in the interest of the public. It called attention to the
fact that the section provides that the operation is to
301335°--41-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U.S.

be "for the account of the lessor" and that no claim was
made that failure to pay the interest or taxes in question
would result in the suspension of operation of Old Colony
and Boston and Providence lines. The court further
held, on an analysis of the Massachusetts statute creating
the terminal company, that any direct obligation on the
part of New Haven to pay interest and taxes terminated
with the rejection of the Old Colony lease which related
back to the date of the petition for reorganization, since
which time the trustees have not operated for their own
account but for that of the former lessors. The court
thought that upon plain principles of equity it ought
not to jeopardize the interests of New Haven's secured
creditors by imposing the probable loss upon the New
Haven estate.
The Circuit Court of Appeals declined to pass upon the
question whether § 77 (c) (6), of its own force, requires
the New Haven trustees to make the payments as operating expenses of the former lessors, though payment is
not indispensable to the continuance of railroad operations, and declined to decide whether the direct obligations imposed by the Massachusetts statute upon New
Haven bound the trustees of New Haven after rejection
of the leases. The court based its reversal of the District
Court's order upon two federal statutes.
It held that the Act of June 18, 1934," which provides
that "Any receiver, liquidator, referee, trustee, or other
officers or agents appointed by any United States court
who is authorized by said court to conduct any business,
or who does conduct any business, shall, from and after
June 18, 1934, be subject to all State and local taxes
applicable to such business the same as if such business
were conducted by an ildividual or corporation . . . "
lays upon the trustees the obligation to pay the taxes in
question. We are unable to agree.
c. 585, 48 Stat. 993; 28 U. S. C. § 124 (a).

PALMER v. WEBSTER & ATLAS BANK. 163
156

Opinion of the Court.

The question is whether the trustees, who are officers
or agents appointed by the court to conduct the business
of New Haven, are also, within the intendment of the
statute, agents who are conducting the business of Old
Colony. Stated otherwise, the inquiry is whether, in
adopting the statute, Congress had in view an enforced
operation of a lessor's property by the trustees of the
lessee under § 77 (c) (6) to prevent stoppage of railroad
transportation. We think Congress had no such intent.
The legislative history of the Act discloses its purpose. The committee reports accompanying the bill
which became the Act of 1934 state: 12 "The purpose of
this bill is to subject businesses conducted under receivership in Federal courts to State and local taxation the
same as if such businesses were. being conducted by private individuals or corporations." The reports advert
to the fact that federal courts had held a federal receiver
operating a business exempt from state sales taxes. They
conclude: "No good reason is perceived why a receiver
should be permitted to operate under such an advantage
as against his competitors not in receivership, and the
States and local governments be deprived of this
revenue."
What Congress intended was that a business
in receivership, or conducted under court order, should be
subject to the same tax liability as the owner would
have been if in possession and operating the enterprise.
In the light of this purpose, the Act does not impose
upon the New Haven trustees the obligation to pay taxes
arising out of the conduct of the business of Old Colony
or Boston and Providence. Section 77 (c) (2) accords
the trustees of a railroad. in reorganization the right to
reject burdensome leases. Section 77 (c) (6) provides
12H.

Sess.

R. 1138, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.; S. Rept. 1372, 73d Cong., 2d

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

that if a lease of a line of railroads is so rejected it
shall be the duty of the lessor to operate the line unless
it be found impracticable for the lessor so to do, "in
which event it shall be the duty of the lessee to continue
operation on or for the account of the lessor." The
taxes in question are, in the words of the Act of 1934,
"applicable to" the business of Old Colony, and Boston
and Providence. The New Haven trustees having rejected the Old Colony lease, they are no longer applicable, in any proper sense, to the business of New Haven.
By § 77 (c) (2) the trustees of a railroad in reorganization are given power to operate "the business of the
debtor." By subsection (c) (4) the trustees are required to file schedules and information disclosing "the
conduct of the debtor's affairs." The New Haven trustees' duty is to conduct the business of New Haven.
Old Colony petitioned for reorganization and trustees
were appointed in that proceeding as "trustees of the
property of Old Colony Railroad Company," and were
granted, pursuant to § 77, power to operate "the business
of Old Colony Railroad Company." The trustees of
Old Colony, as such, are the persons who, in the language
of the statute, are "authorized by said court to conduct"
the "business" of Old Colony.
Upon the petition of a creditor for the reorganization
of Boston and Providence, which alleged that company
was a common carrier by railroad engaged in the transportation of persons and property in interstate commerce,
and that the Connecticut District Court had ordered the
operation of its line to be continued by the New Haven
trustees for the account of Boston and Providence, and
upon the company's admission of the truth of the allegations of the petition, the Massachusetts District Court
approved the petition and appointed trustees for the
property of Boston and Providence. The appointment
was confirmed by the Interstate Commerce Commission

PALMER v. WEBSTER & ATLAS BANK.
156

165

Opinion of the Court.

and the trustees are in office. As in the case of Old
Colony, these trustees are the persons who are conducting
the business of Boston and Providence and not the New
Haven trustees.
If the trustees of either of the lessor's properties were
able to operate the lines of railroad and from the proceeds of that operation, or from any other source, were
in possession of available funds, it would be the duty of
the court in view of the Act of 1934 to require them to
pay the taxes applicable to the business they are conducting under the orders of. the court. But it does not
follow that the New Haven trustees, who are not conducting the business of Old Colony or Boston and Providence, as such, but who, under the constraint of § 77
(c) (6), are merely operating the lines of those companies
to prevent public inconvenience are, in the contempla-tion of the Act of 1934, conducting the business of the
lessors in such sense as to be liable, out of New Haven
estate funds, for taxes owed by those companies. It
would require very clear and explicit language to evince
an intent on the part of Congress to appropriate the
moneys of the New Haven estate, which has rejected the
Old Colony lease and rid itself of the leasehold interest
thereby created, to pay the taxes of its lessor. We find
in the Act of 1934 no such clear expression. On the contrary we think it plain Congress did not have in mind,
in adopting that statute, any such situation as is created
by § 77 (c)(6).
The Court of Appeals was of opinion that an obligation is imposed upon the New Haven trustees to pay
the bond interest of the terminal company by § 65 of
the Judicial Code,"8 which provides:
"Whenever in any cause pending in any court of the
United States there shall be a receiver or manager in
" 28 U. S. C. § 124.

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

possession of any property, such receiver or manager
shall manage and operate such property according to the
requirements of the valid laws of the State in which
such property shall be situated, in the same manner
that the owner or possessor thereof would be bound to
do if in possession thereof. Any receiver or manager
who shall willfully violate any provision of this section
shall be fined not more than $3,000, or imprisoned not
more than one year, or both."
. The court held the statute applicable by regarding its
letter, and, as we think, ignoring its obvious purpose.
In the words of the statute, the trustees of the New
Haven are "in possession" of certain property belonging
to Old Colony, and Boston and Providence. They also
are operating that property. Hence the Court of Appeals concluded that the Massachusetts Act of 1896,a valid law placing upon New Haven an obligation to
pay the bond interest of the terminal company,-binds
the trustees, so long as they operate the properties, to
comply with the New Haven's statutory obligation.
Section 65 is not a new enactment. It has-its origin in
§ 2 of the Act of March 3, 188714 and it has frequently
been interpreted and applied by the courts.15 Its obvious purpose was to negative the idea that a federal
receiver or trustee could ignore the rules of law of the
state of operation affecting the conduct of the business
committed to his charge. In this sense it has been interpreted and applied ahd, in this sense, it is certainly
binding upon the trustees of New Haven so long as they
operate the property of the former lessors. The application of the Act by the court below goes much farther
e.373, 24 Stat. 552, 554.
"ISee e. g. United States v. Harris,177 U. S.305; Erb v. Morasch,
177 U. S.584; Gi!is v. California, 293 U. S.62; Hornsby v. Eddy,
56 F. 461; Peirce v. Van Dusen, 78 F. 693.
14

PALMER v. WEBSTER & ATLAS BANK. 167
156

Opinion of the Court.

than this. If valid state laws require a debtor to pay
his debts then, under the decision of the court, such laws
bind the New Haven trustees to pay the d&bts of Old
Colony, and Boston and Providence. If this view were
correct, the trustees would not be operating the property
of those companies for the account of the latter as § 77
(c) (6) provides. On the contrary, they would be operating for the account of the New Haven estate. More-over, on this assumption, the New Haven estate would
be compelled to pay the former lessors' debts as they
accrued. The result would be a preference of the creditors, of the confessedly insolvent lessors as against the
creditors of the New Haven whose trustees are operating the Boston and Providence and Old Colony property
only under the constraint of § 77 (c) (6). We think
that to state the proposition is to demonstrate that § 65
of the Judicial Code has no such purpose or effect.
We are of opinion, bs was the District Court, that nothing in § 77 (c) (6) works the inequitable result that the
involuntary operation of the Old Colony, and Boston and
Providence properties by the New Haven trustees requires them to advance New Haven's funds, without security, for the payment of obligations of the former
lessors which are not essential to the continued operation
demanded of the trustees.
How far cash advances to the former lessors should
go; whether the security for further advances is adequate; whether advances are necessary to continued operation; are all questions to be decided by the District
Court having jurisdiction of the New Haven reorganization proceedings. These are problems of administration
to be solved by the exercise of a sound discretion. Upon
the uncontested facts, we think the District Court exercised such a discretion in ordering the withholding of
further cash payments towards the taxes and interest of
the terminal company, and that its order should stand.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

The District Court discussed at some length the provisions of the Massachusetts Act of 1896 chartering the
terminal company. The respondent insists that the
court erroneously construed the Act and held that it
will not sustain any claim on the part of the terminal
company, or the State or the City of Boston, against
the New Haven estate in respect of the interest on the
terminal company's bonds and taxes assessed on its property and franchise. The trustees' petition sought an
order dealing only with the current administration of the
New Haven estate and the District Court need not have
decided, and we think did not decide, any question other
than that presented. In any event, no question of the
validity of any Such claim is presented on this record and
our affirmance of the District Court's order is not to be
taken as the expression of an opinion upon any such
question.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
PHILADELPHIA COMPANY

ET AL.

v. DIPPLE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 242 and 243. Argued January 8, 9, 1941.-Decided February 3,
1941.

1. The trustees of a debtor street railway company in a reorganization proceeding under § 77B (now Chapter X) of the Bankruptcy
Act, are not required by the Act of June 18, 1934 to pay, out of
the estate of the debtor, taxes owed by corporations whose properties the debtor operated-together with its own in a unified
system-under leases and operating agreements, and which the
trustees continued to operate. P. 175.
2. Pending affirmation or rejection of the leases and operating agreements by the trustees, their obligation was to pay only a reason-

