SMITH v. O'GRADY.
321

Syllabus.

late Court is in conformity with the mandate issued to
the Appellate Court by this Court."
The Supreme Court of Illinois, without opinion, sustained the motion and dismissed the writ of error. I am
unable to say that this action was an affirmance of any
recital in the decree Of the appellate court respecting the
legality of peaceful picketing disconnected with a continued course of publishing libels, making threats, and
using force. If the final decree was right on the ground
stated by the Supreme Court in sustaining the temporary
injunction; and if, under the Illinois practice, the affirmance of such a correct decree based on a previous opinion
of the Supreme Court does not amount to the adoption
of a preamble or recital of the decree, then we ought not
to ieverse the final decree of the Supreme Court, which,
on the facts stated in the complaint, is correct when
tested by the principles enunciated in Ethyl Gasoline
Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 461, and in Milk
Wagon Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Dairies, ante, p.
287, because of a recital in the decree of the appellate
court.
The CHIEF JUsTIcE joins in this opinion.
SMITH v. O'GRADY, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 364. Argued January 17, 1941.-Decided February ,17, 1941.
1. The remedy by habeas corpus is available in the courts of Nebraskl for determining whether the petitioner's incarceration is in
violatio k of the Federal Constitution. P. 331.
2. A petition for habeas corpus alleging facts showing a case of incarceration for a serious offense, resulting from a plea of guilty
into the making of which the petitioner,> an uneducated man un-,

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

aided by counsel, was tricked by state officers, states a cause of
action under the due process clause of the Fourteenth amendment.
P. 334.

Reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 633, to review the affirmance of
a judgment dismissing an application for writ of habeas
corpus.

Mr. William L. Marbury, Jr., for petitioner, acting
under an assignment by the Court.
Mr. Clarence S. Beck, Assistant Attorney General of
Nebraska, with whom Messrs. Walter R. Johnson, Attorney General, H. Emerson Kokjer, and Charles F. Bongardt, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The question presented is Whether petitioner's application for writ of habeas corpus filed in a Nebraska state
court alleged facts which if proven entitled him to release from prison because he was held pursuant to a
court judgment rendered in violation of rights guaranteed him by the federal Constitution. The trial court
declined to issue the writ, holding that the petition failed
to state a cause of action justifying the relief prayed.
Without requiring the state to answer and without giving petitioner an opportunity to prove his allegations, the
application was dismissed. A motion for reconsideration,
setting out additional facts, was similarly dismissed. On
appeal, the Supreme Court of Nebraska affirmed, without
opinion.
The judgment of the Nebraska Supreme Court is a
final and authoritative answer to petitioner's contention
that his imprisonment was illegal under the state's constitution or laws. But petitioner also contended that

SMITH v. O'GRADY.
329

331

Opinion of the Court.

his imprisonment was illegal under the federal Constitution. And in denying the writ the Nebraska court
necessarily held that petitioner's. allegations--even if
proven in their entirety-would not entitle him to habeas
corpus, even if the petition showed a deprivation- of federally protected rights.' It was to review this question
that we granted certiorari. 311 U. S. 633.
. But before examining the pleadings in order to determine whether the allegations showed a deprivation of
federally protected rights, it is necessary to consider a
preliminary contention urged by the state. The tenor
of this contention is that under Nebraska law petitioner
could not have his asserted federal rights determined in
habeas corpus proceedings. And, supporting this contention, there is in the record a letter to petitioner from
the trial judge, who originally denied the writ-,a letter
indicating that petitioner's only relief from illegal imprisonment was by application to the Nebraska Parole
and Pardon Board. This letter is not, however, a judicial
determination, and apparently no state statutes or court
decisions compel the result it indicates. Nor can we
lightly assume that Nebraska affords no corrective process
for one who is imprisoned under a judgment rendered in
violation of rights protected by the federal Constitution.
That Constitution is the supreme law of the land, and
"Upon the state courts, equally with the courts of the
,Union, rests the obligation to guard and enforce every
right secured by that Constitution." '2 Moreover, while
'It is suggested that the Nebraska Supreme Court's final judgment
of affirmance rested on petitioner's failure to file a printed brief in
that court, and that this was an adequate non-federal ground, precluding our review of the federal question raised. But this contention
is obviously not sound, because the Supreme Court denied petitioner's
motion for relief from the rule requiring printed briefs solely on the
ground that upon examination of the whole record the court. had
found the appeal to be without merit.
'Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103, 113.

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312U. S.

the opinions of the Nebraska courts do not mark clearly
the exact boundaries within which Nebraska confines the
historic remedy of habeas corpus, the Nebraska Supreme
Court has held that the writ was properly invoked to
obtain release from imprisonment resulting from deprivation of constitutional rights.' Because of this, and because a contrary conclusion would apparently mean that
Nebraska provides no judicial remedy whatsoever for
petitioner even though he can show he is imprisoned in
violation of procedural safeguards commanded by the
federal Constitution,' we are unable to reach the conclusion that habeas corpus is unavailable to him under
Nebraska law.
It is therefore our duty to examine petitioner's allegations in order to determine whether they show that his
imprisonment is the result of a deprivation of rights
guaranteed him by the federal Constitution. The heart
of his charge is that he, an ignorant layman not represented by counsel, was tricked into pleading guilty to a
serious offense. Among the specific allegations are:
Petitioner, without being informed of the charges
against him, was arrested in one county, and then removed to another county for two days. - There he was
told he was wanted for burglary in a third county (Valley County), but would be dealt with leniently if he
would plead guilty. After a long distance telephone conversation between petitioner and a man identified as the
prosecuting attorney of Valley County, a conversation arranged and listened to by the Valley County sheriff, a
sentence of not over three years was agreed upon. Petitioner was soon thereafter transferred to the Valley
'In re Resler, 115 Neb. 335, 338-340; 212 N. W. 765. And see
Kuwitzky v. O'Grady, 135 Neb. 466, 468; 282 N. W. 396. Cf.
Darling v. Fenton, 120 Neb. 829; 235 N. W. 582.
'See Newcomb v. State, 129 Neb. 69; 261 N. W. 765.

SMITH v. O'GRADY.
329

Opinion of the Court.

County jail. His efforts to get copies of the charges
filed against him were unsuccessful, the sheriff telling
him that this was "not necessary" since "everything had
been 'fixed.'" After three days in the Valley County
jail, and "without ever having had a copy of the charge,"
petitioner was taken before a trial judge, "summarily arraigned, and, upon his prearranged plea of guilty, sentenced, to his surprise and consternation, to a term of
twenty years imprisonment in the Nebraska State Penitentiary." Petitioner, an uneducated layman, had no
knowledge of law or legal procedure, and had never before
been arrested or been in a court room for any purpose
whatsoever. Upon imposition of the twenty year sentence, however, he vigorously protested, asked the court
and the prosecuting attorney for a copy of the charge
to which he had pleaded guilty, and, this request being
refused, asked permission to withdraw his plea of guilty,
requested appointment of an attorney to advise and
assist him, and asked that he be given a proper opportunity to defend himself. All of these requests were refused
by the court, and "within the hour" he was on his way
to the penitentiary, accompanied by the sheriff. After
arriving at the penitentiary he discovered "that he had
been duped and inveigled into entering a plea of guilty
to a charge of burglary with explosives . . .," punishable
in Nebraska by twenty years to life imprisonment. Simple burglary, to which petitioner agreed .to plead guilty,
upon condition that he be sentenced to three years, carries a penalty of one to ten years. During the eight years
petitioner has been in the penitentiary, he has done
everything an uneducated person could do to bring his
illegal imprisonment to the attention of the Nebraska
authorities, but has not been able to get counsel because
of lack of funds. His appeals to the Board of Pardons
have been futile. Because of his ignorance of his rights,

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

and because of the trial court's failure to appoint, and
his inability to obtain, counsel, the original sentence was
not appealed.
These allegations, if true, undermine and invalidate
the judgment upon which petitioner's imprisonment.rests.
The circumstances under which petitioner asserts he was
entrapped and imprisoned in the penitentiary are wholly
irreconcilable with the constitutional safeguards of due
process. For his petition presents a picture of a defendant, without counsel, bewildered by court processes
strange and unfamiliar to him, and inveigled by false
statements of state law enforcement officers into entering
a plea of guilty. The petitioner charged that he had
been -denied any real notice of the true nature of the
charge against him, the first and most universally recognized requirement-of due process; that because of deception by the state's representatives he had pleaded
guilty. to a charge punishable by twenty years to life
imprisonment; that his request for the benefit and advice .of counsel had been denied by the court; and that
he had been rushed to the penitentiary where hi ignorance, confinement and poverty had precluded the posSibility of his securing counsel in order to challenge the
procedure by regular processes of appeal. if these things
happened, petitioner is imprisoned under a judgment invalid because obtained in violation of procedural guaranties protected against state invasion through the Fourteenth Amendment.' The state court erroneously decided that the petition stated no cause of action. If
petitioner can prove his allegations the judgment upon
which his imprisonment rests was rendered in violation
of due process and cannot stand.
Reversed and remanded.
8

Cf. Walker v. Johnston, ante, p. 275; Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S.
458; Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103. And see Chambers v.
Florida, 309 U. S. 227.

