A. F. OF L. v. SWING.
287

Argument for Respondents.

action of the Supreme Court of Illinois in prohibiting
peaceful picketing violates the constitutional rights of
these petitioners.

AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR

ET AL. V.

SWING ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 56.

Argued December 13, 1940.-Decided February 10, 1941.

The constitutional guarantee of freedom of discussion is infringed
by the common law policy of a State limiting peaceful picketing
by labor unions to cases in which the controversy is between the
employer and his own employees. Pp. 323, 325.

372 Ill. 91; 22 N. E. 2d 857, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 620, to review the affirmance
of a decree of the Appellate Court of Illinois, 298 Ill.
App. 63, 18 N. E. 2d 258, which directed an injunction
against picketing of a beauty shop by a labor union.
The plaintiffs were the proprietor Swing and his
employees.

Mr. Walter F. Dodd, with whom Mr. Daniel D. Carmell was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Myer N. Rosengard, with whom Mr. Samuel A.
Rinella was on the brief, for respondents.
The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
does not confer an absolute right to strike. The Amendment does not operate as a restraint upon the inherent
power of the State to regulate and control the social and
economic destiny of its citizens. Labor disputes involve
internal, social and economic problems of the State; (except where the power to regulate or control is granted to
the Federal Government by the Constitution of the
United States, either by direct grant or as an incident to
301335'--41-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondents.

312 U. S.

the exercise of granted power). Schechter Corp. v.
United States, 295 U. S. 495; Carter v. Carter Coal Co.,
298 U. S. 238; Senn v. Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468;
Lauf v. Shinner & Co., 303 U. S. 323.
Assuming that the judgment of a state court, enunciating the common law of the State, can be considered
as A declaration of state policy and analogous to a state
statute, the declaration of policy in this case is not an
unreasonable or arbitrary exercise of state sovereignty.
Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; West Coast Hotel
Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S. 379; National Labor Relations
Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1; Minersville
School Districtv. Gobitis, 310 U. S. 586.
The objective sought to be attained by the trade union
having been declared to be unlawful, the means usedthe strike campaign, the picketing and patrolling--are
necessarily unlawful as being a part of a conspiracy to
damage and injure and in aid of an unlawful objective.
Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194; American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S. 184; Dorchy v. Kansas, 272 U. S. 306; Meadowmoor Dairies v. Milk Wagon
Drivers Union, 371 Ill. 377; Frankfurter & Greene, The
Labor Injunction, p. 25.
The due process clause does not grant an unbridled
license to speak. Freedom of speech is always subject
to the exercise of governmental regulation and control
in the interest of public welfare. The Fourteenth
Amendment recognizes the power of the State to deprive
citizens of liberty and property, and even life, if done
in the reasonable exercise of police power. Senn v. Tile
Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468; Meadowmoor Dairies v.
Milk Wagon Drivers Union, 371 Ill. 377.
This case involves private parties, each side seeking
to further its own economic well being. It is distinguishable from an attempt on the part of the State to pass
and enforce penal laws. The clear and present danger

A. F. OF L. v. SWING.
321

323

Opinion of the Court.

rule should not- be the test. Abrams v. United States,
250 U. S. 616; Near v-. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697.
MR. JusTicE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In Milk Wagon Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor
Dairies, ante, p. 287, we held that acts of picketing when
blended with violence may have a significance which
neutralizes the constitutional immunity which such acts
would have in isolation. When we took this case, 310
U. S. 620, it seemed to present a similar problem. More
thorough study of the record and full argument have reduced the issue to this: is the constitutional guarantee
of freedom of discussion infringed by the common lawi
policy of a state forbidding resort to peaceful persuasion
through picketing merely because there is no immediate
employer-employee dispute?
A union of those engaged in what the record describes
as beauty work unsuccessfully tried to unionize Swing's
beauty parlor. Picketing of the shop followed. To enjoin this interference with his business and with the freedom of his workers not to join a union, Swing and his
employees began the present suit. In addition, they
charged the use of false placards in picketing and forcible
behavior. towards Swing's customers. A preliminary injunction was granted. Answers were then filed denying
violence as well as falsity of the placards. The union
also moved to strike the complaint and the trial court,
-finding the complaint wanting in equity, granted the motion and dissolved the preliminary injunction. The appellate court, one of Illinois' intermediate courts of review, held that the trial court was in error. 298 Ill. App,
63; 18 N. E. 2d 258. This action of the appellate court
was affirmed by the state supreme court. 372 Ill. 91;
22 N. E. 2d 857. It found that the complaint properly
invoked equity for three reasons: (i) there was no dis-

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

pute between the employer and his immediate employees;
(2) the placards were libelous; (3) there were acts of
violence. Inasmuch as the supreme court affirmed the
issuance merely of a preliminary injunction, we denied
certiorari for want of a final judgment. 309 U. S. 659.
Thereupon, although as we have seen issue had been
formally joined on the claims of libel and violence, the
appellate court, by a procedure unrevealed by the record
and without opinion, entered a permanent injunction
ranging from peaceful persuasion to acts of violence.
The decree recited "that this Court and the Supreme
Court of this State have held in this case, that, under
the law of this State, peaceful picketing or peaceful
persuasion are unlawful when conducted by strangers to
the employer (i. e., where there is not a proximate relation
of employees and employer), and that appellants are entitled in this case to relief by injunction against the
threat of such peaceful picketing or persuasion by appellees." The union sought review of this decree in the
supreme court by writ of error. Swing and his employees moved to dismiss the writ because in seeking to
obtain it the union had conceded that "all issues of the
case have been settled on prior appeal and that the decree entered by the appellate court is in conformity with
the mandate issued" to the appellate court. The writ
was dismissed.
Such is the case as we extract it from a none too
clear
the
temappears
that
in
passing
upon
record. It thus
porary injunction the supreme court of Illinois sustained
it in part because of allegations of violence and libel.
But our concern is with the final decree of the appellate
court. On its face the permanent injunction in that decree rested on the explicit avowal that "peaceful persuasion" was forbidden in this case because those who
were enjoined were not in Swing's employ. Moreover,

A. F. OF L. v. SWING.
321

Opinion of the Court.

as we have seen, the supreme court of Illinois dismissed
proceedings before it to review that decree on representations that the decree was in accordance with its mandate on the temporary injunction.
Since the case clearly presents a substantial claim of
the right to free discussion and since, as we have frequently indicated, that right is to be guarded with a'
jealous eye, Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 258;
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S.147, 161; United States v.
Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S.144, 152n., it would be
improper to dispose of the. case otherwise than on the
face of the decree, which- is the judgment now under review. We are therefore not called upon to consider the
applicability of Milk Wagon Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Dairies, supra, the circumstances of which obviously present quite a different situation from the controlling allegations of violence and libel made in the present
bill.
All that we have before us, then, is an instance of
"peaceful persuasion" disentangled from violence and
free from "picketing en masse or otherwise conducted"
so as to occasion "imminent and aggravated danger."
Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S.88, 105. We are asked
to sustain a decree which for purposes of this case asserts.
as the common law of a state that there can be no "peaceful picketing or peaceful persuasion" in relation to any
dispute between an employer and a trade union unless
the employer's own employees are in controversy with
him.
Such a ban of free communication is inconsistent with
the guarantee of freedom of speech. That a state has
ample power to 'regulate the local problems thrown 'up
by modern industry and to preserve the peace is axiomatic. But ,not even these essential powers are unfettered by the requirements of the Bill of Rights. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

scope of the Fourteenth Amendment is not confined by
the notion of a particular state regarding the wise limits
of an injunction in an industrial dispute, whether those
limits be defined by statute or by the judicial organ of
the state. A state cannot exclude workingmen from
peacefully exercising the right of free communication by
drawing the circle of economic competition between employers and workers so small as to contain only an employer and those directly employed by him. The interdependence of economic interest of all engaged in the
same industry has become a commonplace. American
-Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S. 184, 209.
The right of free communication cannot therefore be
mutilated by denying it to workers, in a dispute with an
employer, even though they are not in his employ. Communication by such employees of the facts of a dispute,
deemed by them to be relevant to their interests, can no
more be barred because of concern for the economic interests against which they are seeking to enlist public opinion
than could the utterance protected in Thornhill's
case. "Members of a union might, without special statutory authorization by a State, make known the facts of
a labor dispute, for freedom of speech is guaranteed by
the Federal Constitution." Senn v. Tile Layers Union,
301 U. S.468, 478.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE

BLAca and MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur

in the result.
MR.JUSTICE ROBERTS, dissenting.

I am unable to agree to the court's disposition of
this case. I think the writ should be dismissed or the
judgment affirmed.

A. F. OF L. v. SWING..
321

•RoBRs, J., dissenting.

The record presents difficult questions concerning Illinois procedure, as to Which the parties are in disagreement, and we ought not to attempt to resolve them.
The respondents filed a complaint in the Circuit Court,
on which a temporary injunction issued. The petitioners
answered. They also made a motion to dismiss the complaint and that motion was granted, with the result that
the temporary injunction was dissolved. On appeal, the
appellate court reversed the order dismissing the complaint. From that action an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of the State, which affirmed the decree
of the appellate court. On analysis of the complaint,
the Supreme Court found that it charged that no disputes existed between the employer and his employees;
that the petitioners had been indulging, and were continuing to indulge, in a series of libels against the respondents; were indulging and were continuing to indulge, in threats and acts of violence. The grounds on
which the court sustained the complaint as stating a cause
of action in equity are summed up in the conclusion of its
opinion thus: "A State or nation ceases to be sovereign
if it tolerates within it any force other than its own, and
that. force must be such as is established by law, directed
by the courts, observing the principles of due process and
equal protection of the law. To whatever extent these
rules are violated we have lawlessness, and under such
circumstafices a court of equity will not pick and choose
among the unlawful acts and threats but will enjoin the
whole scheme."
Thereafter the record discloses merely that the cause
came on for further hearing in the appellate court. We
do not know whether that hearing was upon the bill
and answers or upon the complaint and the motion to
dismiss, and the parties, are in grave dispute on the

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

subject. We do know from the record that the appellate
court, after reciting the previous history of the case,
including the affirmance of its judgment by the Supreme
Court, and a statement that, under the law of Illinois,
peaceful picketing is unlawful when conducted by strangers to the employer, coupled with the further statement
that the respondents were entitled "in this case" to relief
by injunction against the threat of such peaceful picketing, and that the respondents had maintained their
complaint and the equities of the case'were with them,
the appellate court proceeded- to decree "in accordance
with the mandate of the Supreme Court of Illinois," that
the petitioners should be enjoined from picketing or pa-,
trolling respondents' shop, exhibiting signs and placards
to persuade persons to refrain from entering the place
of business and from acts of violence menacing or coercing persons seeking employment from entering' respondents' place of business.
From this final decree the petitioners sued out a writ
of error in the Supreme Court of Illinois and the respondents moved to dismiss it for the reason that the order'
and opinion on the previous appeal "finally settles all
the rights of the parties." In the brief filed by the petitioners they stated: "The writ of error is here presented
with knowledge that this court has fully settled all issues
of the case in a prior review thereof and that the decree
entered by the Appellate Court is in compliance with
the mandate of this court . . . If this court adheres to
the position in People v.. Militzer, 301 Ill. 284, page 287;
133 N. E. 761, that issues once decided on review will
not be again considered on a second review, a final order
in this case may properly dismiss the writ of error on
the ground that all issues of the case have been settled
on prior appeal and that the decree ertered by the Appel-

SMITH v. O'GRADY.
321

Syllabus.

late Court is in conformity with the mandate issued to
the Appellate Court by this Court."
The Supreme Court of Illinois, without opinion, sustained the motion and dismissed the writ of error. I am
unable to say that this action was an affirmance of any
recital in the decree Of the appellate court respecting the
legality of peaceful picketing disconnected with a continued course of publishing libels, making threats, and
using force. If the final decree was right on the ground
stated by the Supreme Court in sustaining the temporary
injunction; and if, under the Illinois practice, the affirmance of such a correct decree based on a previous opinion
of the Supreme Court does not amount to the adoption
of a preamble or recital of the decree, then we ought not
to ieverse the final decree of the Supreme Court, which,
on the facts stated in the complaint, is correct when
tested by the principles enunciated in Ethyl Gasoline
Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 461, and in Milk
Wagon Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Dairies, ante, p.
287, because of a recital in the decree of the appellate
court.
The CHIEF JUsTIcE joins in this opinion.
SMITH v. O'GRADY, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 364. Argued January 17, 1941.-Decided February ,17, 1941.
1. The remedy by habeas corpus is available in the courts of Nebraskl for determining whether the petitioner's incarceration is in
violatio k of the Federal Constitution. P. 331.
2. A petition for habeas corpus alleging facts showing a case of incarceration for a serious offense, resulting from a plea of guilty
into the making of which the petitioner,> an uneducated man un-,

