UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 43. Argued December 10, 1940.-Decided February 3, 1941.
1. In determining whether trade union -conduct violates the Sherman Act, that Act should be read with § 20 of the Clayton Act
and with the Norris-LaGuardia Act. P. 231.
2. Labor union activities enumerated in § 20 of the Clayton Act,
which that section declares shall not be "considered or held to
be violations of any law of the United States," are not punishable as criminal under the Sherman Act. P. 232.
3. Section 20 of the Clayton Act does not differentiate between
trade union conduct directed against an employer because of
a controversy arising in the relation between employer and employee, as such, and conduct similarly directed but arising from
a struggle between two unions seeking the favor of the same
employer. P. 232.
4. In -a case involving interstate commerce, union carpenters refused to work for a brewing company by which they were employed, or on construction work being done for it and for its
adjoining tenant; they attempted to persuade members of .other
unions similarly to refuse to work; they picketed the brewer's
premises, displaying signs "Unfair to Organized Labor"; and
they recommended to the union members and their friends not
to buy or use the brewer's product. Held:
(1) That these actions were protected from prosecution under
the Sherman Act by § 20 of the Clayton Act, construed in the
light, of Congress's definition of a "labor dispute" in the NorrisLaGuardia Act. P. 233.
(2) In view of the broad definition of "labor dispute" in the
Norris-LaGuardia Act, § 20 of the Clayton Act gives protection
to the conduct it describes although directed in part against outsiders to the labor dispute. Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering,
254 U. S.443, is inapplicable. P. 234.
32 F. Supp. 600, affirmed.
APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment quashing an indictment under the Sherman Act.

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

312 U. S.

Assistant Attorney General Arnold, with whom Solicitor General Biddle and Messrs. Richard H. Demuth and
Roscoe T. Steffen were on the brief, for the United
States.
The indictment charges a direct physical restraint of
interstate commerce in goods manufactured and sold by
Anheuser-Busch, in goods manufactured and sold by the
Gaylord Container Corporation, in building materials
intended for Anheuser-Busch, Borsari Tank Corporation, L. 0. Stocker Co., and Gaylord Container Corporation, and in materials purchased by Anheuser-Busch
for the production of its goods. It further alleges that
the defendants had the purpose and intent to restrain
this interstate commerce. These allegations are clearly
sufficient to show a direct and deliberate restraint of
interstate trade.
The indictment also charges the kind of restraint which
is illegal under the Sherman Act. Distinguishing Apex
Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469. In the first place
there is here no mere local dispute between an employer
and his employees, and the acts charged are not merely
local activities conducted in a single factory and subject to the supervision and control of the local authorities.
The indictment charges rather that a restraint of trade
has been imposed as a result of a 'jurisdictional dispute
between two national unions and that this dispute has
resulted in many different strikes in many different
places which have imposed a direct and unreasonable
burden upon interstate trade. It further charges that
the defendants sought to force Anheuser-Busch to take
their side in this dispute and, when Anheuser-Busch refused, they engaged in a deliberate campaign on a national scale to drive Anheuser-Busch from the interstate
market.
In the second place, the objective of the conspiracy
was not the protection and advancement of the rights

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.'
219

Argument for the United States.

of labor, such as collective bargaining, wages, hours, or
working conditions; it was rather to win by force a
jurisdictional dispute with another union and to deprive
the members of that other union of work. Defendants
attempted to destroy the interstate business of AnheuserBusch,- and to restrain the. interstate trade of the other
companies, because they hoped by these methods to compel Anheuser-Busch to side with them in the jurisdictional dispute. The holding in the Apex case that a
union may stop production in a local factory in order
to achieve union recognition is not authority for a similar holding when the objective of the union is to win by
force a nation-wide contest, not with the employer, but
with another union.
In the third place, the objective of: the union was
sought to be achieved not, as in the Apex case, by interfering with the business of the other party to the dispute,
but by stopping interstate trade to or by four companies,
with only one of which it had any relation and against
none of which it had any real grievance. The purpose
of the defendants in restraining the interstate commerce
of Anheuser-Busch was to compel it to become a partisan in the fight between the Brotherhood of Carpenters
and the Machinists' Union. The purpose of the defendants in restraining the interstate -commerce of the other
companies was to compel them to put pressure on Anheuser-Busch to become a partisan in the jurisdictional
dispdte. This aspect of the defendants' activities indicates an intent to interfere with interstate commerce
on'a far broader scale'than, the closing of one local plant;
it raises a question quite distinct from that in the. Apex
case.

The opinion in that case recognizes that the type of
restraint charged to the defendants in this case, because
it actually 'and potentially interferes with competitors
in every direction, is within the prohibitions of the Sher-

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

312 U. S.

man Act. The test laid down in that case is whether
the restraint is "upon commercial competition in the
marketing of goods or services." The mere closing of
a factory is not enough to bring the case within that
test. But if, as in this case, the restraints go beyond
that and are directed toward driving an employer, against
whom the union has no real grievance, from the interstate market and are calculated to interfere with the
interstate commerce of persons dealing with the employer, the application of the Sherman Act is clear.
In Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, Duplex Printing
Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, and Bedford Cut
Stone Co. v. Journeymen Stone Cutters' Assn., 274 U. S.
37, this Court held that activities similar in all important respects to the activities of the defendants here
restrained commerce within the meaning of the Sherman
Act.
The exclusion of a trader from the market, or the erection of arbitrary barriers to free access to the market,
has long been recognized both under the Sherman Act
and the common law as a restraint of trade. See Darcy
v. Allein, 11 Coke 84b; The Case of the Tailors of Ipswich, 11 Coke 53a; Colgate v. Bacheler, Cro. Eliza. 872;
Mitchel v. Reynolds, 1 P. Wins. 181; Anon., Moore
(K. B.) 115, 72 Eng. Repr. 477; Anon., 2 Leo. 210, 74
Eng. Repr. 485;. Alger v. Thacher, 19 Pick. 51; United
States v. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co., 85 F. 271, 279;
Pratt v. British Medical Assn., 1 K. B. 244; United
States v. American Medical Assn., 110 F. 2d 703. This
Court has in a number of cases struck down restraints,
not because of their effect upon prices or production,
but because they operated to destroy free access to the
market. 'Paramount Famous Corp. v. United States,
282 U. S. 30; United States v. First National Pictures,
Inc., 282 U. S. 44; Eastern States Lumber Assn. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 600.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

Argument for the United States.

The restraint charged in the indictment may not be
justified under the "rule of reason" enunciated in Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1.
There is no form of labor warfare so opposed to the
public interest and to the interest of organized labor.
itself as the jurisdictional strike which stops the commerce of an employer who is trying to be fair to organized
labor. An employer who finds himself the victim of
such a strike is powerless. There is no concession he
can make which will stop the attack on his business.
Similarly, the union whose relations with the employer
the other union seeks to disrupt cannot rely on its satisfactory service or its superior craftsmanship to maintain
its position; it has no weapon, other than ruthless economic warfare, to defend itself against the aggressive
tactics of those who would destroy it.
If a union is permitted to expand through the mere
brutal use of power against neutral employers, there
will be a premium on ruthless and coercive leadership.
If, as this Court has said, the Sherman Act is a charter
of freedom, it must include within its prohibitions the
destruction of one labor organization by another through
force and coercion at the expense of innocent bystanders
and the tying up of the business of the public at large.
The view that the Norris-LaGuardia Act modified or
amended § 1 of the Sherman Act so as to make lawful
thereunder activities which might otherwise be illegal
is plainly erroneous. That statute does nothing more
'than limit the equity powers of the federal courts. Its
purpose and scope are shown by its first section.
The purpose thus declared is carried out by the other
provisions of the Act which prescribe terms and conditions to be followed by the federal courts in issuing and
enforcing injunctions in cases arising out of labor disputes. Nothing in the Act purports to change the existing substantive rules of criminal and civil law as they

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

312 U'S.

apply to the activities of labor organizations. This conclusion as to the purpose of the Act is confirmed by its
legis!ative history. The reports of the congressional
committees and the debates on the floor of Congress show
that the Act was directed at nothing more than the equity
powers of the federal courts.
The situation as to the criminal law is too plain to require elaboration. It may be suggested that by reason
of its denial of the injunctive remedy the law changes
the substantive rights of one who seeks relief in a court
of equity. On the other hand, there is much to be said
for the view that for the most part the Act simply embodies the sound view as to the equity practice prevailing
before its enactment. The only section of the Act which
might properly be regarded as impairing substantive
rights is § 3, which outlaws the so-called "yellow dog"
contract. It has never been suggested that the NorrisLaGuardia Act modifies in any way § 7 of the Sherman
Act, which confers a civil right to triple damages.
In both the Senate and the House the bill finally
enacted was entitled "a bill to define and limit the jurisdiction of courts sitting in equity." For explicit statements as to the purpose of the bill see the Senate report
at pages 7-8 (S.Rep. No. 163, 72d Cong., 1st Sess.).
Similar statements appear in the House report at pages
23 (H. Rep. No. 669, 72d Cong., 1st Sess.). If it were
necessary to resort to statements made in the debates
on the bill, additional support for this conclusion could
be supplied. See 75 Cong. Rec. 5467, 5464.
The same reasoning which supports the conclusion that
the Norris-LaGuardia Act does not expressly amend § 1
of the Sherman Act closes the door on any possible argument that an amendment is accomplished by inference
or implication. Moreover, "It is a cardinal principle of
construction that repeals by implication are not favored."
United States v. Borden Company, 308 U. S. 188, 198.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
Argument for Appellees.

219

It is obvious that the Norris-LaGuardia Act is a limited statute passed with specific reference to the exercise
of a particular kind of jurisdiction by the federal courts.
Mr. Charles H. Tuttle, with whom Messrs. Joseph 0.
Carson, Thomas E. Kerwin, and Joseph 0. Carson, H,
were on the brief, for appellees.
The case is ruled by the Apex decision, 310 U. S. 469.
The attack upon the "jurisdictional strike" is without
any sound legal basis. We are not here concerned with
social and economic questions and reforms which lie
within the jurisdiction of Congress and the state legislatures.
If the Sherman Law applies equally to capital and
labor, how can non-competition between industrial concerns be a crime under that law a~d yet. competition
between labor unions be also a crime?
There are multitudinous decisions holding that a jurisdictional strike is not an offense, criminal or even civil,
against the Sherman Law. There is no decision to the
contrary. Terrio v. S. N. Nielsen Const. Co., 30 F. Supp.
77; Levering & G. Co. v. Morrin, 289 U. S. 103; United
Leather Workers v. Herkert, 265 U. S. 457; Senn v. Tile
Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468; Lauf v. E. G. Shinner &
Co., 303 U. S. 323; Blankenship v. Kurfman, 96 F. 2d 450;
United Chain Theatres v. Philadelphia Union, 50 F. 2d
890; Allen v. Flood, House of Lords 1898; Pickett v.
Walsh, 192 Mass. 572; Kemp v. Division No. 241, 255
Ill. 213; Exchange Bakery & Restaurant.v. Rifkin, 245
N. Y. 260; Stillwell Theatre, Inc. v. Kaplan, 259 N. Y.
405; Nann v. Rkaimist, 255 N. Y. 306; Bossert v. Dhuy,
221 N. Y. 342; National Protective Assn. v. Cummings,
170 N. Y. 315; Horman v. United Mine Workers, 166
Ark. 255; Overland Publishing Co. v. Union Lithograph
Co., 57 Cal. App. 366; Greenwood v. Building Trades
Council, 71 Cal. App. 159; Shaughnessy v. Jordan, 184
Ind. 499; Roddy v. United Mine Workers, 41 Okla. 621.
301385-41-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Appellees.

312 U. S.

See report of the House Committee recommending
the ClaytOn Act, 63rd Cong., 2d Sess., H. R. 2, pp. 14
et seq.
The assumption that § 6 of the Clayton Act is irrelevant rests in large part upon the substitution of "reasonable" or "justified" for the word "legitimate" in the Act,
and upon disregarding that the Supreme Court has defined this word "legitimate" as meaning "normal." Duplex ,Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443. It also disregards
that portion of the section which expressly immunizes
"the operation of labor organizations for the purposes
of mutual help."
See the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes in the
Bedford Company case, 247 U. S.37, 65.
Section 20 of the Clayton Act expressly provides that
none of the acts specified therein shall "be considered
or held to be violations of any law of the United
States."
That section and the subsequent Norris-LaGuardia
Act are also fatal to this indictment. See Milk Wagon
Drivers' Union v. Lake Valley Farm Products, Inc., 311
U. S.91; Donnelly Garment Co. v. InternationalL. G. W.
Union, 20 F. Supp. 767; Grace Co. v. Williams, 20 F.
Supp. 263.
The claim of appellant that the Norris-LaGuardia Act
has to do only with "the equity powers of the Federal
Courts" is clearly erroneous. It overlooks the express
declaration in § 2 of the "public policy of the United
States" on the substantive rights of labor, and overlooks
also the inherent and implied declaration of public policy
contained in the whole text and substance of the Act.
Another fundamental error which organized labor must
and does resist as fatal to its very existence, is the constant exclusion of the right to seek, gain and protect
employment and to strike in defense thereof, from the
normal and legitimate objects and operations of a labor
union.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

Opinion of the Court.

The indictment nowhere charges a secondary boycott.
The very contrary appears.
The United Brotherhood had a perfect common law,
statutory and constitutional right peacefully to endeavor
to persuade its members and friends of organized labor
to refrain from patronizing Anheuser-Busch beer, which
was merely one of many products manufactured by the
Anheuser-Busch Company.
The acts of the defendants affecting Borsari Tank
Corporation and L. 0. Stocker Company were not a
crime under the anti-trust laws.
Aside from the omission to show any crime against the
anti-trust law, the indictment fails to show that the
Brotherhood was morally or legally bound to submit to
the unilateral decision of the Anheuser-Busch Company
awarding to the machinists by contract the exclusive right
to this particular class of work at the very time when
the construction contract was about to be let.
MR. JusTicE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Whether the use of conventional, peaceful activities
by a union in controversy with a rival union over certain
jobs is a violation of the Sherman Law, Act of July 2,
1890, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1, is the
question. It is sharply presented in this case because
it arises in a criminal prosecution. Concededly an injunction either at the suit of the Government or of the
employer could not issue.
Summarizing the long indictment, these are the facts.
Anheuser-Busch, Inc., operating a large plant in St. Louis,
contracted with Borsari Tank Corporation for the erection of an additional facility. The Gaylord Container
Corporation, a lessee of adjacent property from AnheuserBusch, made a similar contract for a new building withthe Stocker Company. Anheuser-Busch obtained the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

materials for its brewing and other operations and sold
its finished products largely through interstate shipments.
The Gaylord Corporation was equally dependent on interstate commerce for marketing its goods, as were the
construction companies for their building materials.
Among the employees of Anheuser-Busch were members
of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of
America and of the International Association of Machinists. The conflicting claims of these two organizations,
affiliated with the American Federation of Labor, in regard to the erection and dismantling of machinery had
long been a source of controversy between them. Anheuser-Busch had had agreements with both organizations whereby the Machinists were given the disputed
jobs and the Carpenters agreed to submit all disputes
to arbitration. But in 1939 the president of the Carpenters, their general representative, and two officials of the
Carpenters' local organization, the four men under indictment, stood on the claims of the Carpenters for the
jobs. Rejection by the employer of the Carpenters' demand and the refusal of the latter to submit to arbitration were followed by a strike of the Carpenters, called
by the defendants against Anheuser-Busch and the construction companies, a picketing of Anheuser-Busch and
its tenant, and a request through circular letters and the
official publication of the Carpenters that union members
and. their friends refrain from buying Anheuser-Busch
beer.
These activities on behalf of the Carpenters formed the
charge of the indictment as a criminal combination and
conspiracy in violation of the Sherman Law. Demurrers
denying that what was charged constituted a violation
of the laws of the United States were sustained, 32 F.
Supp. 600, and the case came here under the Criminal Appeals Act. Act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, 18
U. S. C. § 682; Judicial Code § 238, 28 U. S. C. § 345.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

Opinion of the Court.

In order to determine whether an indictment charges
an offense against the United States, designation by the
pleader of the statute under which he purported to lay
the charge is immaterial. He may have conceived the
charge under one statute which would not sustain the indictment but it may nevertheless come within the terms
of another statute. See Williams v. United States, 168
U. S.382. On the other hand, an indictment may validly
satisfy the statute under which the pleader proceeded,
but other statutes not referred to by him may draw the
sting of criminality from the allegations. Here we must
consider -not merely the Sherman Law but the related
,enactments which entered into the decision of the district
court.
Section 1 of the Sherman Law on which the indictment
rested is as follows: "Every contract, combination in the
form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of
trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal." The controversies engendered by its, application to trade union
activities and the efforts to secure legislative relief from
its consequences are familiar history. The Clayton Act
of 1914 was the result. Act of October 15, 1914, 38
Stat. 730. "This statute was the fruit of unceasing agitation, which extended over more than twenty years and
was designed to equalize before' the law the position of
workingmen and employer as industrial combatants."
Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254.U. S. 443, 484. Section 20
of that Act, which is set out in the margin in full,' with1 38

Stat. 738, 29 U. S. C. § 52: "No restraining order or injunc-

tion shall be granted by any court of the United States, or a judge
or the judges thereof, in any case between an employer and employees, or between employers and employees, or between employees,
or between persons employed and persons seeking employment,
involving, or growing out of, a dispute concerning terms or condi&tion of employment, unless necessary to prevent irreparable injury
to property, or to a property right, of the party making the appli-

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

drew from the general interdict of the Sherman Law specifically enumerated practices of labor unions by prohibiting injunctions against them-since the use of the injunction had been the major source of dissatisfactionand also relieved such practices of all illegal taint by the
catch-all provision, "nor shall any of the acts specified in
this paragraph be considered or held to be violations of
any law of the United States." The Clayton Act gave
rise to new litigation and to renewed controversy in and
out of Congress regarding the status of trade unions. By
the generality of its terms the Sherman Law had necessarily compelled the courts to work out its meaning from
case to case. It was widely believed that into the Clayton Act courts read the very beliefs .which that Act was
designed to remove. Specifically the courts restricted
the scope of § 20 to trade union activities directed against
an employer by his own employees. Duplex Co. v. Deercation, for which injury there is no adequate remedy at law, and
such property or property right must be described with particularity in the application, which must be in writing and sworn to by
the applicant or by his agent or attorney.
"And no such restraining order or injunction shall prohibit any
person or persons,, whether singly or in concert, from terminating
any relation of employment, or from ceasing to perform any work
or labor, or from recommending, advising, or persuading others by
peaceful means so to do; or from attending at any place where any
such person or persons may lawfully be, for the purpose of peacefully obtaining or communicating information, or from peacefully
persuading any person to work or to abstain from working; or from,
ceasing to patronize or to employ any party to such dispute, or
from recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful
and lawful ineans sQ to do; or from paying or giving to, or withholding from, any person engaged in such dispute, any strike benefits or other moneys or things of value; or from peaceably assembling in a lawful manner, and for lawful purposes; or from doing
any act or. thing which might lawfully be done in the absence of
such dispute by any party thereto; nor shall any of the acts specified in this paragraph be considered or held to be violations of any
law of the United States."

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

Opinion of the Court.

ing, supra. Such a view it was urged, both by powerful
judicial dissents and informed lay opinion, misconceived
the area of economic conflict that had best be left to
economic forces and the pressure of public opinion and
not subjected to the judgment of courts. Ibid., p. 485486. Agitation again led to legislation and in 1932 Congress wrote the Norris-LaGuardia Act. Act of March 23,
1932, 47 Stat. 70, 29 U. S. C. §§ 101-115.
The Norris-LaGuardia Act removed the fetters upon
trade union activities, which according to judicial construction § 20 of the Clayton Act had left untouched,
by still further narrowing the circumstances under which
the federal courts could grant injunctions in labor disputes. More especially, the Act explicitly formulated
the "public policy of the United States" in regard to the
industrial conflict,2 and by its light established that the
allowable area of union 4ctivity was not to be restricted,
ag it had been in the Duplex case, to an immediate employer-employee relation. Therefore, whether trade.
union conduct constitutes a violation of the Sherman Law
is to be determined only by reading the Sherman Law
and § 20 of the Clayton Act and the Norris-LaGuardia
Act as a harmonizing text of outlawry of labor conduct.
"Whereas under prevailing economic conditions, developed with
the aid of governmental authority for owners of property to organize in the corporate and other forms of ownership association, the
individual unorganized worker is commonly helpless to exercise
actual liberty of contract and to protect his freedom of labor, and
thereby to obtain acceptable terms and conditions of employment,
wherefore, though. he should be free to decline to associate with
his fellows, it is necessary that he have full freedom of association,
self-organization, and designation of representatives of his own
choosing, to negotiate the terms and conditions of his employment,
and that he shall be free from the interference, restraint, or coercion
of employers of labor, or their agents, in the designation of such
representatives or in self-organization or in other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or

protection."

.232

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

Were, then, the acts charged against the defendants
prohibited, or permitted, by these three interlacing
statutes? If the facts laid in the indictment come within
the conduct enumerated in § 20 of the Clayton Act they
do not constitute a crime within the general terms of the
Sherman Law because of the explicit command of that
section that such conduct shall not be "considered or
held to be violations of any law of the United States."
-So long as a union acts in its self-interest and does not
combine with non-labor groups, 8 the licit and the illicit
under § 20 are not to be distinguished by any judgment
regarding the wisdom or unwisdom, the rightness or
wrongness, the selfishness or unselfishness of the end
of which the particular union activities are the means.
There is nothing remotely within the terms of § 20 that
differentiates between trade union conduct directed
against an employer because of a controversy arising in
the relation between employer and employee, as such,
and conduct similarly directed but ultimately due to an
internecine struggle between two unions seeking the favor
of the same employer. Such strife between competing
unions has been an obdurate conflict in the evolution of
so-called craft unionism and has undoubtedly been one
of the potent forces in the modern development of industrial unions. These conflicts have intensified industrial tension but there is not the slightest warrant for
saying that Congress has made § 20 inapplicable to trade
union conduct resulting from them.
In so far as the Clayton Act is concerned,, we must
therefore dispose of this case as though we had before
us precisely the same conduct on the part of the defendants in pressing claims against Anheuser-Busch for in-

'Cf. United States v. Brims, 272 U. S. 549, involving a conspiracy
of mill work manufacturers, building contractors and union
carpenters.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

Opinion of the Court.

creased wages, or shorter hours, or other elements of what
are called working conditions. The fact that what was
done was done in a competition for jobs against the Ma-.
chinists rather than against, let us. say, a company union
is a differentiation which Congress has not put into the
federal legislation and which therefore we cannot write
into it.
It is at once apparent that the acts with which the defendants are charged are the kind of acts protected by
§ 20 of the Clayton Act. The refusal of the Carpenters
to work for Anheuser-Busch or on construction work being'done for it and its adjoining tenant, and the peaceful
attempt to get members of other unions similarly to refuse to work; are plainly within the free scope accorded
to workers by § 20 for "terminating any relation of employment," or "ceasing to perform any work or labor," or
"recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful means so to, do." The picketing of Anheuser-Busch
premises with signs to indicate that Anheuser-Busch was
unfair to organized labor, a familiar practice in these situations, comes within the language '.'attending at any
place where any such person or persons may lawfully be,
for the purpose of peacefully obtaining or communicating
information, or from peacefully persuading any person to
work or to abstain from working." Finally, the recommendation to union members and their friends. not to buy
or use the product of Anheuser-Busch is explicitly covered by "ceasing to patronize . . '. any party to such
dispute, or from recommending, advising, or persuading
others by peaceful and lawful means so to do."
Clearly, then, the facts here charged constitute lawful
conduct under the Clayton Act unless the defendants
cannot invoke that Act because outsiders to the immediate dispute also shared in the conduct. But we need not
determine whether the conduct is legal within the restrictions which Duplex Co. v. Deering gave, to the in-

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

312 U. S.

munities of § 20 of the Clayton Act. Congress in the
Norris-LaGuardia Act has expressed the public policy of
the United States and defined its conception of a "labor
dispute" in terms that no longer leave room for doubt.
Milk Wagon Drivers' Union v. Lake Valley Farm Products, 311 U. S. 91. This was done, as we recently said,
in order to "obviate the results of the judicial construction" theretofore given the Clayton Act. New Negro Alliance v. Sanitary Grocery Co., 303 U. S. 552, 562; see
Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, 507, n. 26.
Such a dispute, § 13 (c) provides, "includes any controversy concerning terms or conditions of employment, or
concerning the association or representation of persons in
negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing, or seeking to
arrange terms or conditions of employment, regardless of
whether or not the disputants stand in the proximate relation of employer and employee."' And under § 13 (b)
a person is "participating or interested in a labor dispute"
if he "is engaged in the same industry, trade, craft, or occupation, in which such dispute occurs, or has a direct
or indirect interest therein, or is a member, officer, or
agent of any association composed in whole or in part
of employers or employees engaged in such industry,
trade, craft, or occupation."
To be sure, Congress expressed this national policy
and determined the bounds of a labor dispute in an act
6xplicitly dealing with the further withdrawal of injunctions in labor controversies. But to argue, as it was
urged before us, that the Duplex case still governs for
purposes of a criminal prosecution is to say that that
which on the equity side of the court is allowable conduct may in a criminal proceeding become the road to
'Three years later, in the National Labor Relations Act, Congress
gave similar breadth to the definition of a labor dispute. Act of
July 3, 1935, 49 Stat. 448, 449, 29 U. S. C. § 152 (9).

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

Opinion of the Court.

prison. It would be strange indeed that lthough neither
the Government nor Anheuser-Busch could have sought
an injunction against the acts here challenged, the elaborate efforts to permit such conduct failed to prevent
criminal liability punishable with imprisonment and
heavy fines. That is not the way to read the will of
Congress, particularly when expressed by a statute which,
as we have already indicated, is practically and historically one of a series of enactments touching one of the
most sensitive national problems. Such legislation must
not be read in a spirit of mutilating narrowness. On
matters far less vital and far less interrelated we have
had occasion to point out the importance of giving "hospitable scope" to Congressional purpose even when meticulous words are lacking. Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp., 306 U. S. 381, 391, and authorities
there cited. The appropriate way to read legislation in
a situation like the one before us, was. indicated by Mr.
Justice Holmes on circuit: "A statute may indicate or
require as its justification a change in the policy of the
law, although it expresses that change only in the specific cases most likely to occur in the mind. The Legislature has the power to decide what the policy of the
law shall be, and if it has intimated its will, however
indirectly, that will should be recognized and' obeyed.
The major premise of the conclusion expressed in a statute, the change of policy that induces the enactment, may
not be set out in terms, but it is not an adequate dis-.
charge of duty for the courts to say: We see what you
are driving at, but you have not said it, and there'fore
we shall go on as before." Johnson v. United States
163 F. 30, 32.
The relation of the Norris-LaGuardia Act to the Clayton Act is not that of a tightly drawn amendment to a
technically phrased tax provision. The underlying aim

236,

OCTOBR TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

'

312 U. S.

iif the Norfis-LaGuardia Act was to restore the broad
purpose which Congress thought it had formulated in the
Clayton Act but which was frustrated, so Congress believed, by unduly restrictive judicial construction. This
was authoritatively stated by the House Conunittee on
the Judiciary. "The purpose of the bill, is to protect the
rights of labor in the same manner the Congress intended
when it enacted the Clayton Act, October 15, 1914 (38
Sta t. L;, 738), which act, by reason of its construction and
application by the Federal courts, is ineffectual to ac-'
complish the congressional intent." H. Rep. No. 669,
72d Congress, 1st Session, p. 3. The Norris-LaGuardia
Act was a disapproval of Duplex Printing Press Co. v.
Deering, supra, and Bedford Cut Stone Co. v. Journeymen Stone Cutters' Assn., 274 U. S. 37, as the authoritative interpretation of § 20 of the Clayton Act, for Congress now placed its own meaning upon that section.
The Norris-LaGuardia Act reasserted the original purpose
of the Clayton Act by infusing into it -the immunized
trade union activities as redefined by the later Act. In
this light § 20 removes all such allowable conduct from
the taint of being a "violation of any law of the United
States," including the Sherman Law.
There is no profit in discussing those cases under the
Clayton Act which were decided before the courts were
furnished the light shed by the Norris-LaGuardia Act on
the nature of the industrial conflict. And since the facts
in the indictment are made lawful by the Clayton Act
in so far as "any law of the United States" is concerned,
it would be idle to consider the-Sherman Law apart from
the Clayton Act as interpreted by Congress. Cf. Apex
Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S.469. It was precisely in
order to minimize the difficulties to which the general
language of the Sherman Law in its application to work-.
ers had given rise, that Congress cut through all the
tangled verbalisms and enumerated concretely the types

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

SroiN, J., concurring.

of activities which had become familiar incidents of union
procedure.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MuRp-Y took no part in the disposition of
this case.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

concurring.

As I think it clear that the indictment fails to charge
an offense under the Sherman Act, as it has been interpreted and applied by this Court, I find no occasion to
consider the impact of the Norris-LaGuardia Act on the
definition of participants in a labor dispute in the Clayton Act, as construed by this Court in Duplex Printing
Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443-an application of
the Norris-LaGuardia Act which is not free from doubt
and which some of my brethren sharply challenge.
The indictment is for a conspiracy to promote by peaceful means a local "jurisdictional" strike in St. Louis,
Missouri. Its aim is to determine whether the United
Brotherhood of Carpenters or the International Association of Machinists, both labor organizations affiliated with
the American Federation of Labor, shall be permitted
to install certain machinery on the premises of AnheuserBusch, Inc. in St. Louis. It appears that AnheuserBusch brews beer and manufactures other products which
it ships to points outside the state. It also uses supplies
and building materials which are shipped to it from
points outside the state. Borsari Tank Corporation is
about to construct for Anheuser-Busch upon its premises
a building for its use in brewing beer. L. 0. Stocker
Company has contracted and intends to construct an
office building upon land of Anheuser-Busch adjacent
to its brewery and leased by it to the Gaylord Container
Corporation, a manufacturer of paper and cardboard containers which it ships in interstate commerce. It is al-

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE,

J., concurring.

312 U. S.

leged that both Borsari and Stocker will require and use
in the construction of the buildings, materials to be
shipped from points outside the state to the building sites
on or adjacent to the Anheuser-Busch premises.
The indictment charges that pursuant to the conspiracy to enforce the jurisdictional demands appellees,
who are officers or representatives of the Brotherhood,
called a strike of its members, some seventy-eight in
number, in the employ of Anheuser-Busch, attempted to
call sympathy strikes by members of other unions in
its employ and caused the premises of Anheuser-Busch
and the adjacent premises leased to Gaylord to be picketed by persons "bearing umbrellas and charging Anheuser-Busch, Inc., to be unfair to organized labor; with
the intent to shut down the brewery and manufacturing
plant of Anheuser-Busch, Inc., to hinder and prevent the
passage of persons and property to and from said premises and thus to restrain and stop the commerce of Anheuser-Busch" in the beer and other products manufactured by it, and in the supplies and materials procured
by it extrastate, and "to restrain the commerce" of Gaylord. It is alleged that pursuant to the conspiracy, defendants "refused to permit members of the United
Brotherhood . . . to be employed and prevented such
members from being employed by Borsari . . . with the
intent and effect of preventing construction of the building about to be built by Borsari . . . and thus of restraining the commerce of Anheuser-Busch in beer . . .
and also with the knowledge and willful disregard of the
consequent restraint and stoppage of commerce in the
materials intended to be used by Borsari." Like allegations are made with respect to Stocker with the added
charge that the acts alleged Were with intent to prevent
performance of Stocker's contract with Gaylord "with
willful disregard of the consequent restraint of the commerce of Gaylord."

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

STONE,

J., concurring.

There is the further allegation that pursuant to the
conspiracy defendants and their co-conspirators have
instigated and brought about a "boycott of beer brewed
by Anheuser-Busch . . . and of dealers in said beer
throughout the United States," by distributing to-members of labor organizations and to the public at large
in many states and by published notices circulated interstate "denouncing Anheuser-Busch, Inc. as unfair to organized labor and calling upon all union members and
friends of organized labor to refrain from purchasing
and drinking said beer."
We are concerned with the alleged activities of defendants, actual or intended, only so far as they have an
effect on commerce prohibited by .the Sherman Act as
it has been amended or restricted in its operation by the
Clayton Act. The legality of the alleged restraint under
the Sherman Act is not affected by characterizing the
strike, as this indictment does, as "jurisdictional" or as
not within the "legitimate object of a labor union." The
restraints charged are of two types: One is that resulting
to the commerce of Anheuser-Busch, Borsari, Stocker and
Gaylord from the l eaceful picketing of the AnheuserBusch premises, a part of which is leased to Gaylord, and
the refusal of the Brotherhood -to permit its members
to work, and its prevention of its members from working
(by what means other than picketing does not appear)
for Borsari and Stocker. The other is that resulting from
the requests addressed to the public to. refrain from purchasing Anheuser-Busch beer.
It is plain that the first type of restraint is only that
which is incidental to the conduct of a local strike and
which results from closing the plant of a manufacturer
or builder who ships his product in interstate commerce,
or who procures his supplies from points outside the
state. Such restraints, incident to such a strike, upon the
interstate transportation of the products or supplies have

240.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
SroNE, J., concurring.

312 U. S.

been repeatedly held by this Court, without a dissenting
voice, not to be within the reach of the Sherman AntiTrust Act. There is here no allegation in the case of
any, of the employers of any interference, actual or in-.
tended, by strikers with goods moving or about to be
shipped in interstate commerce such as was last term
so sharply presented and held not to be a violation of
the Sherman Act in Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310
U. S. 469.
*With respect to Borsari and Stocker the indictment
does no more than charge a local strike to enforce the
jurisdictional demands upon Anheuser-Busch by the refusal of union members to work in the construction of
buildings for Anheuser-Busch or upon its land, the work
upon which, so far as appears, has not even begun. The
restraint alleged is only that resulting from the "disregard" by the strikers of the stoppage of the movement
interstate of the building materials and the manufactured
products of Gaylord consequent upon their refusal to
construct the -buildings. Precisely as in Levering &
Garrigues Co. v. Morrin, 289 U. S. 103, where a local
building strike with like consequences was held not to
violate the Sherman law, there is wanting here any fact
to show that the conspiracy was directed at the use of any
particular building material in the states of origin and
destination or its transportation between them "with
the design of narrowing or suppressing the interstate
market," .each of which were thought to be crucial in
Bedford Cut Stone Co. -. Stone Cutters' Assn., 274 U. S.
37, 46-47. See Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, supra, 506.
As to the commerce of Anheuser-Busch and Gaylord,
the indictment at most shows a conspiracy to picket
peacefully their premises and publicly to charge .the
former with being unfair to organized labor, all with
the intent to shut down the plant of Anheuser-Busch

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

STONE,

J., concurring.

and to hinder and prevent the passage of persons and
property to and from the premises and thus to restrain
the commerce of Anheuser-Busch and Gaylord. There
is also the allegation already noted that the refusal to
work for Stocker will restrain the commerce of Gaylord,
presumably because he will manufacture and ship less
of his product if the proposed building is not completed.
It is a novel proposition that allegations of local peaceful picketing of a manufacturing plant to enforce union
demands concerning terms of employment accompanied
by announcements that the employer is unfair to organized labor is a violation of the Sherman Act whatever
effect on interstate commerce may be intended to follow
from the acts done. They, like the allegations here,
show only such effect upon interstate commerce as may
be inferred from the acts alleged and in any event such
restraint as there may be is not shown to be more than
that which is incidental to every strike causing a shutdown of a manufacturing plant whose product moves in
interstate commerce or stopping building operations
where-the builder is using materials shipped to him in
interstate commerce. If the counts of the indictment
which we are now considering make out an offense, then
every local strike aimed at closing a shop whose products
or supplies move in interstate commerce is, without more,
a violation of the Sherman Act. They present a weaker
case than those unanimously held by this Court not to
involve violation of the Sherman Act in United Mine
Workers v. Coronado Coal Co. (First- Coronado Case),
259 U.' S. 344; United Leather Workers v. Herkert &
Meisel Co., 265 U. S. 457; Levering & Garrigues Co. v.
Morrin,supra, and see CoronadoCoal Co. v. United Mine
Workers (Second Coronado Case), 268 U. S. 295, 310.
In any case there is no allegation in the indictment that
the restraint did or could operate to suppress competition
301335°--41-10

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STIONM, J., concurring.,

312 U. S.

and so dismissal of these
in the market of any product

counts is required by our decision in Apex Hosiery Co. v.
Leader, supra.
The second and only other type of restraint upon interstate commerce charged is the so-called "boycott" alleged

to be by the publication of notices charging AnheuserBusch with being unfair'to labor and requesting members
of the Union and the public not to purchase or use the
Anheuser-Busch product. Were it necessary to a decision I should have thought that, since the strike against
Anheuser-Busch was by its employees and there is no

intimation that there is any strike against the distribu:
tors of the beer, the strike was 'a labor dispute between
employer and employees within the labor provisions of
the Clayton Act as they were construed in Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, supra. In that case §20 of the
-Act, as the opinion of the Court points out, makes lawful
the action of any person* "ceasing to patronize . . . any
party to such dispute" or "recommending, advising, or
persuading others by peaceful and lawful means so to

do.",
Be .that as it may, it is a sufficient answer to the asserted violation. of the Sherman Act by the publication
of such notices and requests, to point out that the strike
was by employees of Anheuser-Busch; that there was no
boycott of or strike against any purchaser of AnheuserBusch beer by any concerted action or refusal to patronize him by the purchase of beer or other products supplied by him such as was condemned in Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 274, 300-307; cf. Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader,
*Appellees, being national and local officers of the Brotherhood
and representing the employees in the labor dispute with their employer, ar6 "proximately and substantially concerned" as parties to
an actual dispute and are, therefore, entitled to the benefits of the
Clayton Act. See Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, supra, 470,

471.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

RonRmS, J., dissenting.

supra, 505; and finally that the publication, unaccompanied by violence, of a notice that the employer is unfair
to organized labor and requesting the public not to patronize him is an exercise of the right of free speech guaranteed by the First Amendment which cannot be made
unlawful by act of Congress. See Thornhill v. Alabama,
310 U. S. 88.*
I can only conclude that, upon principles, hitherto recognized and established by the decisions of this Court,
the indictment charges no violation of the Sherman
Act.
MR. JUSTIcE. ROBERTS,

dissenting.

I am of opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
The indictment adequately charges a conspiracy to
restrain trade and commerce with the specific purpose of
preventing Anheuser-Busch from receiving in interstate
commerce commodities and materials intended for use in
its plant; of preventing the Borsari Corporation from
obtaining materials in interstate commerce for use in
performing a contract for Anheuser-Busch, and of preventing the Stocker Company from receiving materials
in like manner for the construction of a building for the
Gaylord Corporation. The indictment further charges
that the conspiracy was to restrain interstate commerce
flowing from Missouri into other states of products of
Anheuser-Busch and generally to restrain the interstate
trade and commerce of the three corporations named.'
Without detailing the allegations of the indictment, it
is sufficient to say that they undeniably charge a secondary boycott, affecting interstate commerce.
This court, and many state tribunals, over a long
period of years, have held such a secondary boycott
illegal. In 1908 this court held such a secondary boycott,
instigated to enforce the demands of a labor union against
'C. E. Stevens Co. v. Foster & Kleiser Co., 311 U. S. 255.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
RomERTS, J., dissenting.

312 U. S.

an employer, was a violation of the Sherman Act and
could be restrained at the suit of the employer.2 It is
matter of history that labor unions insisted they were
not within the purview of the Sherman Act but this court
held to the contrary. As a result of continual agitation
the Clayton Act was adopted. That Act, as amended,
became effective October 15, 1914.' Subsequently suits
in equity were brought to restrain secondary boycotts
similar to those involved in earlier cases. The contention was made that the Clayton Act exempted labor
organizations from such suits. That contention was not
sustained.4 Upon the fullest consideration, this court
reached the conclusion that the provisions of § 20 of the
Clayton Act governed not the substantive rights of persons and organizations but merely regulated the practice
according to which, and the conditions under which,
equitable relief might be granted in suits of this character. Section 6 has no bearing on the offense charged in
this case.
This court also unanimously held that a conspiracy
such as is charged in the instant case renders the conspirators liable to criminal prosecution by the United
States under the anti-trust acts.'
It is common knowledge that the agitation for complete exemption of labor unions from the provisions of
the anti-trust laws persisted. Instead of granting the
complete exomption desired, Congress adopted, March 23,
1932, the Norris-LaGuardia Act.' The title and the contents of that Act, as well as its legislative history," dem'Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.
3c. 323, 38 Stat. 730.
'Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; Bedford
Cut Stone Co. v. Journeymen Stone Cutters' Assn., 274 U. S. 37.
'United States v. Brims, 272 U. S. 549.
'c. 90, 47 Stat. 70; 29 U. S. C. §§ 101-115.
'S. Rep. No. 163, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 7-8; H. Rep. No. 669,
72d Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 2-3; 75 Cong. Rec. 5464, 5467.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHESON.
219

245

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

onstrate beyond question that its purpose was to define
and to limit'the jurisdiction of federal courts sitting in
equity. The Act broadens the scope of labor disputes as
theretofore understood, that is, disputes between an employer 'and his employes with respect to wages, hours,
and working conditions, and provides that before a federal court can enter an injunction to restrain illegal acts
certain preliminary findings, based on evidence, must be
made. The Act further deprives the courts of the right
to issue an injunction against the doing of certain acts
by labor organizations or their members. It is unnecessary to detail the acts as to which the jurisdiction of a
court of equity is abolished. It is sufficient to say, what
a reading of the Act makes letter clear, that the jurisdiction of actions for damages authorized by the Sherman
Act, and of the criminal offenses denounced by that Act,
are not touched by the Norris-LaGuardia Act.
By a process of construction never, as I think, heretofore indulged by this court, it is now found that, because
Congress forbade the issuing of injunctions to restrain
certain conduct, it intended to repeal the provisions of
the Sherman Act authorizing actions at law and criminal
prosecutions for the commission of torts and crimes defined by the anti-trust laws. The doctrine now announced
seems to be that an indication of a change of policy in
an Act as respects one specific item in a general field of
the law, covered by an earlier Act, justifies this court in
spelling out an implied repeal of the whole of the earlier'
statute as applied to conduct of the sort here involved. I
venture to say that no court has ever undertaken so
radically to legislate where Congress has refused so to do.'
The construction of the act now adopted is the more
clearly inadmissible when we remember that the scope
'The rule always heretofore followed in respect of implied repeal
was recently expounded in an analogous situation in United States v.
Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188, 198.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

312 U. S.

of proposed amendments and repeals of the anti-trust
laws in respect of labor organizations has been the subject of constant controversy and consideration in Congress. In the light of this history, to attribute to Congress an intent to repeal legislation which has had a
definite and well understood scope and effect for decades
past, by resurrecting a rejected construction of the Clayton Act and extending a policy strictly limited by the
Congress itself in the Norris-LaGuardia Act, seems to
me a usurpation by the courts of the function of the Congress not only novel but fraught, as well, with the most
serious dangers to our constitutional system of division
of powers.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

joins in this opinion.

PHILLIPS, GOVERNOR OF OKLAHOMA,
UNITED STATES ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 201.

Argued January 15, 1941.-Decided February 3, 1941.

1. Section 266 of the Jud. Code is not a measure of broad social
policy to be construed with great liberality, but an enactment
technical in the strict sense of the term and to be applied as such.
P. 251.
2. A suit to enjoin the Governor of a State from employing military force in alleged violation of plaintiff's constitutional rights,
can not be maintained in a three-judge District Court under Jud.
Code § 266, or be reviewed by direct appeal to this Court under
that section, where the validity of no statute of the State is chal-.
lenged, but merely the legality of the Governor's actions done under
color of general provisions of the state constitution and laws conferring his executive and military powers. Sterling v. Constantin,
287 U. S. 378, distinguished. P. 253.

