WILLIAMS v. ZBARAZ

1309

Opinion in Chambers

WILLIAMS v. ZBARAZ
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-958. Decided May 24, 1979*
Applications for a stay, pending appeal to this Court, of the District
Court's order enjoining the State of Illinois from refusing to fund under
its medical assistance programs "medically necessary" abortions performed prior to viability of the fetus are denied. The District Court,
in an action where the plaintiffs are a class of certain pregnant women
and a class of certain physicians, held that an Illinois statute under
which only "life-preserving" abortions were funded was unconstitutional
on equal protection grounds. The applications do not present the
"extraordinary circumstances" necessary to justify a stay. A stay is
not necessary to preserve the issue for decision by this Court; and in
light of the competing equities, applicants, the Director of the Illinois
Department of Public Aid and physicians who intervened as defendants
below, have failed to sustain their burden of demonstrating that the risk
of irreparable harm to them if the injunction remains in effect outweighs
the risk of irreparable harm to plaintiffs if a stay of that injunction
is granted.
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants seek a stay of an order of the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois enjoining
the State of Illinois from refusing to fund under its medical
assistance programs medically necessary abortions performed

prior to viability.
The plaintiffs in this action are a class of pregnant women
eligible for Illinois medical assistance programs for whom an

abortion is medically necessary and a class of physicians who
perform such procedures and are certified to receive reimbursement for necessary medical services.

Their complaint alleged

that the Illinois statute, 1977 Ill. Laws, Pub. Act 80-1091, ยง 1,
denying reimbursement for medically necessary abortions vio*Together with No. A-967, Quern v. Zbaraz, also on application for stay
of the same order.

1310

OCTOBER TERF,

1978

Opinion in Chambers

442 U. S.

lated their rights under both the Social Security Act and the
Fourteenth Amendment. After the United States Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed the District Court's
initial decision to abstain, 572 F. 2d 582, the District Judge
held that the Illinois statute violated the federal Social Security Act and its implementing regulations, since Illinois' funding of only "life-preserving" abortions fell short of the federal
statutory responsibility to "establish reasonable standards" for
providing medically necessary treatment. The court rejected
the argument that the Hyde Amendment's I prohibition of federal funding of certain categories of abortions limited the
State's statutory responsibility, and entered an injunction requiring Illinois to fund medically necessary abortions. The
Court of Appeals, after denying a stay of the injunction pending appeal, reversed the District Court decision. The Court of
Appeals concluded that the Hyde Amendment was not simply
a limitation on the use of federal funds for abortions, but was
itself a substantive amendment to the obligations imposed
upon the State by Title XIX of the Social Security Act, 42
U. S. C. ยง 1396 et seq. The court recognized the constitutional questions raised by its interpretation and remanded to
the District Court with instructions to consider the constitutionality of both the Illinos statute and the Hyde Amendment.
The District Court held both provisions to be unconstitutional on equal protection grounds. While rejecting the argument that strict scrutiny was appropriate, Judge Grady
1Public Law 95-480, ยง 210, 92 Stat. 1586, commonly known as the Hyde
Amendment, provides:
"None of the funds provided for in this Act shall be used to perform abortions except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus
were carried to term; or except for such medical procedures necessary for
the victims of rape or incest, when such rape or incest has been reported
promptly to a law enforcement agency or public health service; or except
in those instances where severe and long-lasting physical health damage
to the mother would result if the pregnancy were carried to term when so
determined by two physicians."

WILLIAMS v. ZBARAZ
1309

1311

Opinion in Chambers

concluded that the statute's distinction between indigent
women in medical need of abortions and those in need of
other surgical procedures failed to further any legitimate, articulated state purpose. He was not persuaded by the State's
argument that its interest in "fiscal frugality" supported the
classification, since the costs of prenatal care, childbirth, and
postpartum care were established to be substantially higher
than the cost of abortions. As to the State's asserted interest
in the encouragement of childbirth, the court recognized that
while this interest was clearly legitimate in certain circumstances, see Maher v. Roe, 432 U. S. 464; Poelker v. Doe, 432
U. S. 519, the State does not have a legitimate interest in promoting the life of a nonviable fetus in a woman for whom an
abortion is medically necessary. The United States had intervened as a defendant on remand, when the constitutionality
of the Hyde Amendment was called into question. The District Court's injunction, however, was directed solely to the
State of Illinois, which was ordered to fund medically necessary abortions prior to viability. The District Court refused
to stay this order, and applicants-the Director of the Illinois
Department of Public Aid and two physicians who intervened
as defendants below-now seek a stay from me in my capacity
as Circuit Justice, pending their appeal to this Court.
The standards governing the issuance of stays are well
established. "Stays pending appeal to this Court are granted
only in extraordinary circumstances. A lower court judgment,
entered by a tribunal that was closer to the facts than the
single Justice, is entitled to a presumption of validity."
Graves v. Barnes, 405 U. S. 1201, 1203 (PowELL, J., in
chambers). "To prevail here the applicant must meet a
heavy burden of showing not only that the judgment of the
lower court was erroneous on the merits, but also that the
applicant will suffer irreparable injury if the judgment is not
stayed pending his appeal." Whaien v. Roe, 423 U. S. 1313,
1316 (MARsHALL, J., in chambers). In my view, the applica-

1312

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

442 U. S.

tions before me do not present the "extraordinary circumstances" necessary to justify a stay.
An initial inquiry where a stay is sought in a case within
this Court's appellate jurisdiction is "whether five Justices are
likely to conclude that the case was erroneously decided below."
Graves v. Barnes, supra, at 1203. Applicants' claim that the
District Court improperly distinguished our prior decisions in
Maher and Poelker is far from frivolous, and may well prevail
in this Court. While the District Court's judgment is entitled
to a presumption of validity, so are statutes validly enacted
by Congress and the State of Illinois. Even so, a stay is not
necessary to preserve the issue for decision by the Court: the
controversy between plaintiffs and defendants is a live and
continuing one, and there is simply no possibility that, absent
a stay, our appellate jurisdiction will be defeated. Cf. In
re Bart, 82 S. Ct. 675, 7 L. Ed. 2d 767 (Warren, C. J., in chambers). The question, then, is only whether the District
Court's injunction should be observed in the interim. Unless
the applicants will suffer irreparable injury, it clearly should
be. See Whalen v. Roe, supra,at 1317-1318.
In addressing the irreparable-injury issue, the task of a
judge or Justice is to examine the "competing equities," Socialist Labor Party v. Rhodes, 89 S. Ct. 3, 21 L. Ed. 2d 72
(STEwART, J., in chambers), a task that involves "balancing
th[e] injury [to one side] against the losses that might be
suffered by [the other]." Railway Express Agency v. United
States, 82 S. Ct. 466, 468, 7 L. Ed. 2d 432, 434 (Harlan, J., in
chambers). Where the lower court has already performed
this task in ruling on a stay application, its decision is entitled
to weight and should not lightly be disturbed. Graves v.
Barnes, supra; Railway Express Agency v. United States,
supra.
Both sides agree as to the consequences of a stay of the District Court's order in this case: if a stay is not granted, indigent women for whom an abortion is medically necessary will

WILLIAMS v. ZBARAZ

1309

Opinion in Chambers

be able to have abortions prior to viability; with a stay, many
or most of them will not. In support of their argument that
the former course will cause irreparable injury, applicants
point to two factors. First is the State's financial integrity,
and the losses which Illinois will suffer if forced to fund medically necessary abortions pending appeal, particularly since no
federal reimbursement for these expenses has been ordered. I
find this argument unpersuasive. Both the findings of the
District Court and the record before me compellingly demonstate that it is less expensive for the State to pay the entire
cost of abortion than it is for it to pay only its share of the
costs associated with a full-term pregnancy. Far from suffering any irreparable financial losses without a stay, the State
will benefit financially if one is not granted.
The second state interest asserted merits greater concern.
A refusal to stay the District Court's order, it is argued, will
result in irreparable injury to the interest of the people of
Illinois in protecting potential human life. We have in the
past recognized the legitimacy of the state interest in encouraging childbirth, and I do not doubt its validity here. How
much weight can properly be accorded to that interest, however, is a somewhat different question; Roe v. Wade, 410 U. S.
113, itself establishes that the State's interest in potential life
is never so great that it can outweigh the woman's interest in
her health or in deciding, prior to viability, whether to have an
abortion. Moreover, the State clearly has an interest in preserving and protecting the life and health of the mother, as
well as in promoting childbirth. In this case, where we deal
only with "medically necessary" abortions, the weight to be
accorded to the State's interest in childbirth must necessarily
be diminished by its acknowledged interest in the health of
the mother. Finally, the State's policy of encouraging childbirth is in no way guaranteed if a stay is granted. Even without state assistance, at least some indigent women will secure
abortions: they may "beg, borrow, or steal" the money; they

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

442 U. S.

may find doctors willing to treat them without charge; or they
may resort to less costly and less safe illegal methods. While
the refusal of a stay will in many cases defeat the State's
ability to enforce its interest in promoting childbearing, the
grant of a stay will not ensure the full effectuation of that
interest.
These claims of irreparable injury to the interests of the
State must be weighed against the plaintiffs' claims of irreparable injury to their interests if a stay is granted. First, the
women plaintiffs here have a conceded constitutional right to
choose to have an abortion. Whether or not the State is
under a constitutional obligation to fund their abortions, the
fact remains that meaningful exercise of this constitutional
right depends on the actual availability of abortions. Under
the District Court's judgment, the women will in fact be free
to decide whether or not to have an abortion; if the judgment
is stayed, the constitutional right to choose will for many be
meaningless. And in these circumstances, the loss to the
women may be particularly grievous. The order here is addressed only to abortions which are "medically necessary" for
the health of the mother. The District Court found that if
medically 'necessary abortions are not performed, "the mother
may be subjected to considerable risk of severe medical problems, which may even result in her death."
"Under the Hyde Amendment standard, a doctor may not
certify a woman as being eligible for a publicly funded
abortion except where 'the life of the mother would be
endangered ...or... where severe and long-lasting physical health damage to the mother would result if the
pregnancy were carried to term ....' Most health problems associated with pregnancy would not be covered by
this language... and those that would be covered would
often not be apparent until the later stages of pregnancy,
when an abortion is more dangerous to the mother ....
At the earlier stages of pregnancy, and even at the later

WILLIAMS v. ZBARAZ

1309

1315

Opinion in Chambers

stages, doctors are usually unable to determine the degree
of injury which may result from a particular medical condition .... The effect of the new criteria, then, will be to
increase substantially maternal morbidity and mortality
among indigent pregnant women." Memorandum opinion, No. 77C 4522 (ND Ill. Apr. 27, 1979), pp. 10-11.
Whether or not these findings provide support for the District
Court's judgment on the merits, a distinct question which I
do not consider here, it is clear that they do provide support
for plaintiffs' claims of irreparable injury if a stay is granted.
Balancing these same equities of the plaintiffs and defendants, the District Court denied a stay of its injunction pending
appeal. The applicants had also sought a stay from the
Seventh Circuit, pending appeal, of the District Court's earlier
order requiring the State to fund medically necessary abortions
on the grounds that its refusal to do so violated the Social
Security Act. That application was denied by Judges Fairchild, Bauer, and Wood, who concluded that "the defendantappellant and intervening defendants-appellants have not
sustained their heavy burden of demonstrating immediate
irreparable harm in the absence of a stay of the district court's
injunction pending appeal." Plaintiffs' Exhibit K-2.2 Both
of these courts, evaluating the same or substantially the same
claims as those made here, concluded that a stay was not warranted. Their decisions must be given some weight. I am
persuaded that they are correct.
Whether or not the plaintiffs prevail in this Court, the fact
is that they did in the District Court. The burden is on the
defendants-applicants to establish that the order of the District Court should not be epnforced. Balancing the equities is
always a difficult task, and few cases are ever free from doubt.
2 A stay was then sought in this Court, and both THE CHIF JusTiCE and
I denied the application. I have reviewed the claims of the parties anew
in connection with these applications. And I have concluded once again
that the judgment of the lower court should not be disturbed.

1316

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

442 U. S.

Where there is doubt, it should inure to the benefit of those
who oppose grant of the extraordinary relief which a stay
represents. Cf. Enomoto v. Spain, 424 U. S. 951 (STvEwNs, J.,
dissenting). In my judgment, as in the judgment of the District Court and the Court of Appeals, the equities here appear
to favor the plaintiffs. The applications for a stay are therefore denied.

