306

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

319 U. S.

STANDARD DREDGING CORPORATION v. MURPHY, ACTING INDUSTRIAL COMMISSIONER,
ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK,
APPELLATE DIVISION, THIRD DEPARTMENT.

No. 722. Argued May 5, 1943.--Decided May 24, 1943.
1. A state unemployment insurance tax, laid on employers in respect
of maritime employees whose work is aboard vessels on navigable
waters within the State, is not forbidden by Art. 3, § 2, of the Constitution, which gives the federal courts exclusive admiralty
jurisdiction. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, distinguished. Pp. 307, 310.
2. Such a tax is not objectionable as inconsistent with the power of
Congress where Congress has not exercised its power in the same
field. P. 309.
3. The provision of the Federal Social Security Act exempting from
the federal tax thereby imposed the employers of persons employed
as officers or members of the crews of vessels on navigable waters
of the United States does not operate to exempt such employers
from state unemployment insurance taxes. P. 310.
289 N. Y. 119,44 N. E. 2d 391, affirmed.

APPEALS from judgments of the Court of Appeals of
New York (entered in the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, on remittitur) reversing judgments of the Appellate Division, 263 App. Div. 773, 31 N. Y. S. 2d 183; 262
App. Div. 654, 30 N. Y. S. 2d 721, and affirming orders of

the State Unemployment Board.
Mr. Cletus Keating, with whom Messrs. H. Maurice
Fridlund and Charles S. Cunningham were on the brief,
for appellant in No. 722; and Mr. Robert B. Lisle, with
whom Messrs. Arthur E. Goddard and Jules Haberman
were on the brief, for appellant in No. 723.
*Together with No. 723, International Elevating Co. v. Murphy,
Acting IndustrialCommissioner,et al., also on appeal from the Supreme
Court of New York, Appellate Division, Third Department.

STANDARD DREDGING CO. v. MURPHY. 307
306

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Orrin G. Judd, Solicitor General of New York, with
whom Messrs. Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney General,
William Gerard Ryan, and Francis R. Curran, Assistant
Attorneys General, were on the brief, for appellees.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Mr. Matthew S.
Gibson on behalf of the Gulf Oil Corporation, urging
reversal; and by Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., and Messrs. Sewall
Key, Robert L. Stern, and Jack B. Tate on behalf of the
United States, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The issue in these cases is whether the New York Unemployment Insurance tax may be collected from em-.
ployers of certain employees engaged in maritime employment on the wages of those employees. The New York
Act levies a payroll tax on all employers of four or more
persons, with exceptions not here material, and the sum
thus collected is paid into a general fund for the benefit
of all unemployed persons covered.' The employee in 722
is an assistant cook on a dredge, and the employee in 723
is a grain worker on a floating elevator. The vessels on
which both employees served were engaged primarily on
work in the waters of the state of New York during the tax
period. The appellants challenge the validity of the
statute as applied on two grounds: (1) imposition of the
tax on maritime employees violates Article 3, § 2 of the
Constitution, which gives federal courts exclusive admiralty jurisdiction; (2) Congress has declared either expressly or by implication that no such tax shall be imposed
on maritime employers. No other questions of jurisdiction to tax are before us. The New York Court of Appeals
i For a description of the New York act, see Chamberlain, Inc. v.
Andrews, 271 N. Y. 1, 2 N. E. 2d 22; 299 U. S. 515.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

overruled both these contentions 2and th6 cases are here
on appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code.
In approaching this problem, we may put aside two
questions at the beginning. It is contended that these
two employees are not "members of a crew" and hence

are outside the scope both of admiralty jurisdiction and
of the relevant statutes.3 In the view we take, it is immaterial whether or not the employees are crew members.
We also need not consider whether these taxes affect interstate or foreign commerce, since Congress has expressly
provided that a state shall not beprohibited from levying
the tax because the employer is engaged in interstate or
foreign commerce, 26 U. S. C. 1600; Perkins v. Pennsylvania, 314 U. S. 586. The added contention that a vessel's federal license may bar state taxation is only another
form of the argument that the tax burdens interstate commerce,' and need not be considered separately.
That the state is vested with power to impose taxes in
general upon employers to alleviate unemployment, and
that the authority of the state is in no wise impaired by
reason of blending the imposition of a tax with the relief
of unemployment has already been decided by this Court.
Carmichaelv. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495; Steward
2289 N. Y. 119,44 N. E. 2d 391.
" The employees here, because of the nature of their work, are arguably not within the scope of that portion of admiralty jurisdiction
which has been said to be necessarily exclusive. Cf. Davis v. Departnent of Labor, 317 U. S. 249. On the other hand, certain decisions of
the Bureau of Internal Revenue .might provide the basis for contention
that these employees are "members of a crew" within the meaning of
the federal act. As to whether a dredge is a vessel, see S. S. T. 78,
C. B. 1937-1, 408; as to whether a floating grain elevator is a vessel
and whether a grain processor is a member of a crew, see S. S. T. 204,
C. B. 1937-2, 427; S. S. T. 210, C. B. 1937-2,429.
' Counsel refers us to Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Hall v. DeCuir,
95 U. S. 485; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69; Helson v. Kentucky,
279 U. S. 245; Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 167.

STANDARD DREDGING CO. v. MURPHY. 309
306

Opinion of the Court.

Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548. In a series of cases,'
however, beginning with Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,
244 U. S. 205, this Court called attention to the necessity
of uniformity in certain aspects of maritime law, and invalidated several state workmen's compensation acts as
applied on the ground that their enforcement would interfere with that essential uniformity. We are now asked
to apply the Jensen doctrine to the field of unemployment
insurance and to invalidate the statute before us on the
ground that it is destructive of admiralty uniformity.
The effect on admiralty of an unemployment insurance
program is so markedly different from the effect which it
was feared might follow from workmen's compensation
legislation that we find no reason to expand the Jensen
doctrine into this new area. Indeed, the Jensen case has
already been severely limited, and has no vitality beyond
that which may continue as to state workmen's compensation laws. Cf. Parker v. Motor Boat Sales, 314 U. S.
244.
Granting that the federal government might choose to
operate its own uniform unemployment insurance system
for maritime workers if it chose,6 "Uniformity is required
only when the essential features of an exclusive federal
jurisdiction are involved." Just v. Chambers, 312 U., S.
383, 392. When state compensation laws began to provide a remedy for maritime torts, it was at least arguable
that the state remedy' interfered with theexisting admiralty system of relief through actions such as maintenance and cure. But in dealing with unemployment in5 Just v. Chambers, 312 U. S. 383; Davis v. Department of Labor,
supra, and, for an account of the development of the Jensen doctrine,
252, 253.
6 Cf. 46 U. S. C. § 688 (the Jones Act, dealing with recovery for
injuries by seamen); 33 U. S. C. §§ 901-950 (the Longshoremen's and

Harborworkers' Act dealing with recovery for injuries by longshoremen
and harborworkers).

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

surance "exclusive federal jurisdiction" is not affected at
all. Congress retains the power to act in the field, and in
the meantime, federal courts have nothing to do with it.
No principle of admiralty requires uniformity of state
taxation. Taxes on vessels and other business activities
of operators have previously been upheld.! We hold that
nothing in Article 3, § 2 of the Constitution places this tax
beyond the authority of the State.
The second contention is that the federal Act precludes
coverage of these employers by the state. Title 9 of the
Federal Social Security Act (26 U. S. C. §§ 1600-11) taxes
employers of eight or more employees but provides for a
90% credit against this federal tax for payments made into
a state unemployment fund approved by the federal government. 26 U. S. C. §1607 exempts from this federal tax
certain types of employers of persons including those employed "as an officer or member of the crew of a vessel on
the navigable waters of the United States." We do not
believe that the exemption of these employers from the
federal Act can operate to exempt them from state unemployment insurance taxes. The federal Act, from the
nature of its ninety per cent credit device, is obviously an
invitation to the states to enter the field of unemployment
insurance, Buckstaff Bath House Co. v. McKinley, 308
U. S. 358, 363, but the absence of an invitation as to employers of maritime workers is not to be construed as a
barrier to state action. These employers appear to have
been exempted from the federal Act because of certain ad.ministrative difficulties involved in their coverage, and
because of some doubt that states could, under the Jensen
line of cases, constitutionally enter this field ;8 but we are
I Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63; Old Dominion
Steamship Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299.
B The provision exempting officers and members of crews from the
federal unemployment insurance tax are similar to those in Titles II
and VIII of the Social Security Act, dealing with the old age retirement

STANDARD DREDGING CO. v. MURPHY. 311
306

Opinion of the Court.

pointed to nothing in the legislative history of the Act
which indicates that Congress meant to forbid a state from
risking the possible constitutional barriers to state coverage, and undertaking the difficult administrative task.
The legislative history of other exemptions may indicate
that they were intended to oust the states of jurisdictionon this question we need express no opinion now; but cur.
rent administrative practice under the Act indicates that
there is nothing in the mere existence of a federal exemp.
tion which necessarily required that states not undertake
to expand the social security program in this field. The
federal Act covers only employers of eight or more persons;
approximately one-half the states cover employers with
fewer employees. Several states cover casual laborers and
domestic servants, both groups exempted by the section
of the federal Act which includes the exemption of maritime workers.
Employers of martime workers, otherwise subject to
state unemployment insurance taxing acts, are not ex.
cluded from the coverage of such acts either by Article 3
§ 2 of the Constitution, or by Congressional enactments.
Affirmed.

pensions. Cf. 53 Stat. 1384, repealing the exemption as to certain
maritime workers for old age retirement purposes. The report of the
Way.? and Means Committee of the House of Representatives on the
original Act indicates that the exception was based on the anticipation
of administrative difficulties. House Report 615, 74th Cong., 1st Sess..
33. There was also some fear of possible constitutional objection to
state coverage of maritime employees. See statements of Rep. Vinson
and Rep. McCormack, 79 Cong. Rec. 5903.

