I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 671
624

Syllabus.

liance for the most precious interests of civilization, therefore, must be found outside of their vindication in courts
of law.

Only a persistent positive translation of the faith

of a free society into the convictions and habits and actions
of a community is the ultimate reliance against unabated
temptations to fetter the human spirit.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL. V.
INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 175. Argued January 11, 12, 1943.-Decided June 14, 1943.
Proportional rates on reshipments from Chicago to eastern destinations
of grain coming from distant points Northwest on through shipment
with transit privileges and arriving at Chicago by rail or by lake
steamer, became applicable by reason of tariff wordings to grain
coming from points close to Chicago arriving by barge over the
Illinois Waterways route which was established after the tariffs
were adopted. The railroads filed tariff amendments which would
deny to the ex-barge grain the privilege of moving eastward on
the proportional rates, and remit it to the higher local rates which
grain entering Chicago by truck or from local origins by rail was
obliged to pay. Held:
1. That an order by the Interstate Commerce Commission in a
proceeding under § 15 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act, which
relieved the proposed tariff amendments from suspension, as not
"unlawful," but which did not prevent future adjustments on specific complaint of the rates on the ex-barge traft, was a determination within the administrative competency of the Commission with
which the District Court should not have interfered. P. 685.
2. Proportional rates differing from each other according to the
origin of the commodity may be fixed lower than local rates and may
apply to outbound movements after stopover in transit. P. 684.
3. Since the Commission refused to approve or prescribe the
rates here in controversy, they stand only as carrier-made rates and
are subject to possible recovery of reparations. P. 686.
4. To perpetuate the existing rate structure by sustaining the
District Court's injunction would favor the ex-barge grain over grain

672

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

319 U. S.

moving east from Chicago on local rates, thereby entailing violations of § 4 (1) of the Act as it stood before and after amendment
by the Transportation Act of 1940. P. 687.
5. Nothing in the Transportation Act of 1940 warrants holding
that the ex-barge grain (mostly corn), merely because it moved
over a comparatively slight distance by water, must as a matter of
law be given the benefit of proportionals fixed with reference to
grain (mostly wheat) from the Northwest, including points in Canada
and as far west in the United States as Washington and the Dakotas.
P. 687.
6. Sec. 15 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act, providing that
after suspension of a carrier-proposed rate the Commission "may
make such order with reference thereto as would be proper in a
proceeding initiated after it had become effective," did not oblige
the Commission, in the circumstances of this case, to continue the
suspension proceedings and establish special proportionals for the
barge lines under § 6 (1) of the Act. P. 689.
• 7. The function of this Court does not permit it to prescribe
or approve rates, and the decision in this case carries no implication
of approval of any rates here involved; nor can the Court prescribe
general attitudes the Commission must adopt towards the exercise
of discretion left to it, rather than to the courts, by the Act of
Congress. P. 691.
44 F. Supp. 368, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges enjoining the enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The bill was filed by the
Inland Waterways Corporation. Other parties, including
the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Secretary
of Agriculture, were allowed to intervene as plaintiffs or
defendants. The Attorney General, for reasons explained
in the opinion, infra (p. 683), did not participate.

Mr. Daniel H. Kunkel, with whom Mr. Daniel W.
Knowlton was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce
Commission; Mr. Frank H. Cole, Jr., with whom Mr. Leo
P. Day was on the brief, for the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. et al.; and Messrs. Bryce L. Hamilton and A. B.
Enoch submitted for the Alton Railroad Co. et al.,appellants.

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 673
671

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Nuel D. Belnap, with whom Messrs. Luther M.
Walter and John S. Burchmore were on the brief, for the
Inland Waterways Corp. et al.; Mr. Edward B. Hayes,
with whom Mr. Luther M. Walter was on the brief, for

A. L. Mechling (doing business as A. L. Mechling Barge
Line); and Mr. W. Carroll Hunter, with whom Messrs.
Robert H. Shields and James K. Knudson were on the
brief, for the Secretary of Agriculture of the United
States,-appellees.
MR. JusTIcE JAcKsoN delivered the opinion of the

Court.

By schedules filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission to become effective October 15, 1939, the appellant eastern railroads I sought to deny grain arriving at
Chicago by barge over the Illinois Waterways the privilege of moving out of Chicago by rail on "proportional"
rates applicable to competing grain arriving at Chicago
by lake steamer or rail. The only other rates on which
the ex-barge grain could move eastward by rail from
Chicago were "local" rates, which were in all cases higher
than the existing "proportional" rates. The proposed
schedules were protested by barge lines and others desirous of maintaining the existing proportionals as to
ex-barge grain.
Understanding of the controversy thus precipitated
and the consequent litigation which has brought it to this
Court requires a statement of the rather complicated rate
structure
to which the proposed schedules related.
The proposed
schedules applied to grain, grain products
and grain by-products, but for convenience we refer to
them all as "grain." They dealt not only with grain comI Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company, New York Central Railroad
Company, New York, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Company,
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, Erie Railroad Company, and the
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

ing by barge via the Illinois Waterways to Chicago, but
also with grain so arriving at Peoria, Illinois, St. Louis,
Missouri, and other related rate-break points. Chicago
is illustrative of all, and for convenience we shall follow
the practice employed by the parties in briefs and argument, and confine our discussion to it.
Grain originating at Chicago, grain brought there by
truck, or by rail under intrastate rates, and grain which
had forfeited its transit privileges, moved eastward by
rail from Chicago on local rates. Their validity as such
has not been questioned in this case.
Grain originating at certain places distant from Chicago
had the privilege, however, of moving eastward from
Chicago by rail on the lower proportional rates, although
it came to rest at Chicago for marketing or processing.
These "proportionals" varied according to the region of
origin or the region of destination; and, in some instances,
according to both.
"Official Territory" lies east of Chicago, and is divided
into "Central Territory," "Trunk-line Territory," and
"New England Territory." Central Territory lies west of
a line drawn through Pittsburgh and Buffalo. To this
territory there were three different sets of proportionals,
set with reference to the territory of origin.
Grain originating at certain points in Illinois moved out
of Chicago by rail to Central Territory on "Illinois ReShipping" proportionals, which, however, did not apply to
ex-barge grain and were not affected by the proposed
schedules.
Grain originating in "Northwest Territory" moved, out
of Chicago by rail to Central Territory on "Northwest"
proportionals, which were in some instances higher, and
in others lower, than the Illinois Re-Shipping proportionals. As first published, these proportionals applied
only to grain originating in Northwest Territory, which
comprises generally North Dakota, South Dakota, Minne-

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 675
671

Opinion of the Court.

sota, Wisconsin, the upper peninsula of Michigan, Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, Washington, and certain
Canadian provinces. The Northwest proportionals were
originally and have continued to be applicable on grain
arriving at Chicago by lake. In 1932 the Northwest proportionals were amended to make them apply to shipments
which "arrived by boat line at Chicago . . ." At the time

this wording was put into the tariffs the only water-borne
grain to which they applied was that arriving from the
Northwest by boat over the Great Lakes. The Commission has decided that the effect of this amendment was to
make the Northwest proportionals apply to grain arriving
by barge over the Illinois Waterways, which were opened
in the following year, 1933; and we accept its determination of this issue. While shipping points along the Waterways vary from 57.5 to 200.9 miles in distance from
Chicago, some grain arriving there by barge originated at
points as far beyond as Kansas City and St. Louis. The
Northwest proportionals were the only ones which applied
to ex-barge grain moving out of Chicago by rail to Central
Territory, and the proposed schedules cancelled them as
to such grain.
Grain brought by rail from "Trans-Mississippi Territory," which included, among other places, Kansas City
and St. Louis, moved out of Chicago to Central Territory
on "Trans-Mississippi" proportionals, which had been set
by the Commission 3 cents lower than the Northwest proportionals, in order to equalize the Twin Cities with Kansas City. The Trans-Mississippi proportionals did not
apply to grain coming from these points by barge, and
therefore such grain had to pay a higher rate for the outbound haul than was required of grain coming from them
by rail. No complaint has been made, however, of this;
and the appellees have been content to assert that they
are entitled to the Northwest proportionals as to such
grain.

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

"Trunk-line Territory" lies between Central Territory
and New England Territory, which comprises the New
England States. To Trunk-line and New England Territories the proportionals did not vary with the point of
origin of the grain. These proportionals applied to grain
coming to Chicago by barge over the Illinois Waterways,
and the proposed schedules cancelled them as to such
grain. The existing schedules provided that "in no case
shall the combination through rate to and from the reshipping point via rail be less than the local rate from the
re-shipping point to destination, the difference necessary
to protect the local rate from the re-shipping point to be
added to the re-shipping rate therefrom." No such provision was made with respect to the barge-rail traffic, and
the Commission found accordingly that "the barge-rail
rates are far below the local rates from the re-shipping
points in contravention of the fourth-section rule,' while
the all-rail rates are in strict conformity with that rule."
2 § 4. "(1) It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to
this part or part III to charge or receive any greater compensation
in the aggregate for the transportation of passengers, or of like kind
of property, for a shorter than for a longer distance over the same
line or route in the same direction, the shorter being included within
the longer distance, or to charge any greater compensation as a through
rate than the aggregate of the intermediate rates subject to the provisions of this part or part III, but this shall not be construed as
authorizing any common carrier within the terms of this part or
part III to charge or receive as great compensation for a shorter as
for a longer distance: Provided, That upon application to the Commission such common carrier may in special cases, after investigation,
be authorized by the Commission to charge less for longer than for
shorter distances for the transportation of passengers or property;
and the Commission may from time to time prescribe the extent
to which such designated common carrier may be relieved from the
operation of this section, but in exercising the authority conferred
upon it in this proviso the Commission shall not permit the establishment of any charge to or from the more distant point that is not
reasonably compensatory for the service performed; and no such
authorization shall be granted on account of merely potential water

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 677
671

Opinion of the Court.

When the proposed schedules were filed with the Commission, that body, acting pursuant to its authority under
§ 15 (7) of the Act,' suspended them for the allowable
competition not actually in existence: And provided further, That tariffs
proposing rates subject to the provisions of this paragraph may be filed
when application is made to the Commission under the provisions
hereof, and in the event such application is approved, the Commission
shall permit such tariffs to become effective upon one day's, notice."
54 Stat. 904, 49 U. S. C. § 4 (1).
844 Stat. 1447 as'amended by 54 Stat. 912, 49 U. S. C. § 15 (7),
reading:
"Whenever there shall be filed with the commission any schedule
stating a new individual or joint rate, fare, or charge, or any new
individual or joint classification, or any new individual or joint regulation or practice affecting any rate, fare, or charge, the commission
shall have, and it is hereby given, authority, either upon complaint or
upon its own initiative without complaint, at once, and if it so orders
without answer or other formal pleading by the interested carrier or
carriers, but upon reasonable notice, to enter upon a hearing concerning the lawfulness of such rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation,
or practice; and pending such hearing and the decision thereon the
commission, upon filing with such schedule and delivering to the carrier or carriers affected thereby a statement in writing of its reasons for
such suspension, may from time to time suspend the operation of such
schedule adid defer the use of such rate, fare, charge, classification,
regulation, or practice, but not for a longer period than seven months
beyond the time when it would otherwise go into effect; and after full
hearing, whether completed before or after the rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice goes into effect, the commission may
make such order with reference thereto as would be proper in a proceeding initiated after it had become effective. If the proceeding has
not been concluded and an order made within the period of suspension,
the proposed change of rate, fare, charge,. classification, regulation,
or practice shall go into effect at the end of such period; but in case
.of a proposed increased rate or charge for or in respect to the transportation of property, the commission may by order require the
interested carrier or carriers to keep accurate account in detail of all
amounts received by reason of such increase, specifying by whom
and in whose behalf such amounts are paid, and upon completion of
the hearing and decision may by further order require the interested
carrier or carriers to refund, with interest, to the persons in whose

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

period of seven months and entered upon a hearing of
their lawfulness. The last testimony was heard, and the
record in the case closed, on January 26, 1940. On September 18, 1940, the President approved the Transportation Act of 1940.' Thereafter the appellee Inland
behalf such amounts were paid, such portion of such increased rates
or charges as by its decision shall be found not justified. At any hearing involving a change in a rate, fare, charge, or classification, or in a
rule, regulation, or practice, after September 18, 1940, the burden
of proof shall be upon the carrier to show that the proposed changed
rate, fare, charge, classification, rule, regulation, or practice is just
and reasonable, and the Commission shall give to the hearing and
decision of such questions preference over all other questions pending
before it and decide the same as speedily as possible."
4The provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act particularly relied
upon by appellees which were amended or added by the Transportation
Act of 1940 read as follows:
"It is hereby declared to be the national transportation policy of the
Congress to provide for fair and impartial regulation of all modes of
transportation subject to the provisions of this Act, so administered
as to recognize and preserve the inherent advantages of each; to promote safe, adequate, economical, and efficient service and foster sound
economic conditions in transportation and among the several carriers;
to encourage the establishment and maintenance of reasonable charges
'for transportation services, without unjust discriminations, undue
preferences or advantages, or unfair or destructive competitive practices;. to cooperate with the several States and the duly authorized
officials thereof; and to encourage fair wages and equitable working
conditions ;-all to the end of developing, coordinating, and preserving
a national transportation system by water, highway, and rail, as well
as other means, adequate to meet the needs of the commerce of the
United States, of the Postal Service, and of the national defense. All
of the provisions of this Act shall be administered and enforced with a
view to carrying out the above declaration of policy." 54 Stat. 899.
"§ 3 (1). It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the
provisions of this part to make, give, or cause any undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage to any particular person, company, firm,
corporation, association, locality, port, port district, gateway, transit
point, region, district, territory, or any particular description of traffic,
in any respect whatsoever; or to subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation, association, locality, port, port district, gate-

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 679
671

Opinion of the Court.

Waterways Corporation requested the Commission to
dispose of the proceeding in the light of the new Act. On
July 31, 1941, Division 2 of the Commission found that
"the proportional rates here in issue have never been applicable on this barge traffic moving on unfiled rates," and
that "the schedules under suspension are not shown to be
unlawful." It announced that an order would be entered
vacating the already expired order of suspension and discontinuing the proceedings.' When the period of compulsory suspension ended, the carriers had voluntarily
continued the suspension.
In its petition for rehearing and reconsideration of this
report the Inland Waterways Corporation asserted that
the Commission had permitted discrimination against a
connecting line forbidden by § 3 (4) of the Interstate
way, transit point, region, district, territory, or any particular description of traffic to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage
in any respect whatsoever: Provided, however, That this paragriph
shall not be construed to apply to discrimination, prejudice, or disadvantage to the traffic of any other carrier of whatever description."
54 Stat. 902, 49 U. S. C. § 3 (1).
"§ 3 (4). All carriers subject to the provisions of this part shall,
according to their respective powers, afford all reasonable, proper, and
equal facilities for the interchange of traffic between their respective
lines and connecting lines, and for the receiving, forwarding, and
delivering of passengers or property to and from connecting lines; and
shall not discriminate in their rates, fares, and charges between connecting lines, or unduly prejudice any connecting line in the distribution of traffic that is not specifically routed by the shipper. As used
in this paragraph the term 'connecting line' means the connecting line
of any carrier subject to the provisions of this part or any common carrier by water subject to part IM." 54 Stat. 903, 49 U. S. C. § 3 (4).
"Part III, § 305 (c) . . . Differences in the classifications, rates,
fares, charges, rules, regulations, and practices of a water carrier in
respect of water transportation from those in effect by a rail carrier
with respect to rail transportation shall not be deemed to constitute
unjust discrimination, prejudice, or disadvantage, or an unfair or
destructive competitive practice, within the meaning of any provision
of this Act." 54 Stat. 935, 49 U. S. C. § 905 (c).
5 246 I. C. C. 353.

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Commerce Act as amended by the Transportation Act of
1940.6 It suggested that the Commission fix the existing
proportional rates as the proper ones, stating that: "Theoretically, the Commission is not limited to a choice between the unlawful proposed rates and the present rates,
but may, upon an adequate record, prescribe some different basis of rates for the future. Actually, no different
proposal has been introduced which could support a different basis of rates than those presently in effect. That
fact, however, cannot possibly militate to justify the proposed rates, but could only compel the postponement of
any change in the present tariffs pending further hearing,
and the introdifction of a lawful proposal." I
The decision of the whole Commission on reconsideration was announced on December 1, 1941.8 In it the Commission took official notice that certain of the protestant
barge carriers had attained common carrier status under
the Act, and stated that "no useful purpose would be
served by further hearing or reargument." ' The Commission reviewed the existing rate structure and the probable effects of the proposed changes in operation as contrasted to the effects of denying them, and said:
"The proposed schedules will not prohibit the movement by barge-rail even to trunk-line territory, their prin6See footnote 4, supra, for the text of this provision.
7 Petitions for reconsideration were also filed by "Chicago protestants," operating elevators and dealing in grain at Chicago; Illinois
Agricultural Association, representing shippers located on the Illinois
Waterways; Finnegan Warehouse Company, operating an elevator on
the Waterways; and the United States Department of Agriculture.
These petitions are not incorporated in the record, but it appears
that the action of Division 2 was assailed by these protestants under
§ 3 (1), set out in footnote 4.
8 248 1. C. C. 307.
9From the report -of the Commission it appears that the Inland
Waterways Corporation was the only one asking further hearings. It
stated that further hearings could be useful only to establish the information of which the Commission took official notice, and suggested that
the Commission avoid the necessity for them by taking such notice.

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 681
671

Opinion of the Court.

cipal commercial effect being to reduce the profits of the
Chicago elevator operators. . ..
"Protestants maintain that the proposed schedules will
be unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory, and unduly
prejudicial . . . and unduly preferential.

.

.

.

This is

based primarily on the fact that under the proposed
schedules the ex-barge rates will be higher than the ex-rail
or ex-lake rates, although in each instance the physical
carriage beyond the reshipping point is substantially the
same. But the latter is also true of local grain, grain
brought in by truck, or by rail under intrastate rates, or
grain which has forfeited its transit privileges. To adopt
protestants' premise would mean that all proportional
rates lower than local rates and differing from each other
according to the origin of the commodity would have to be
condemned. As pointed out by the division, reshipping
or proportional rates are in their essence balances of
through rates. Such balances are, of course, determined
by the measure of the in-bound and through rates, and
properly may vary according to the relative length and
nature of the in-bound and through service. It follows
that the protestants' allegations cannot be sustained in
this proceeding, although in a proper proceeding we might
prescribe proportional rates on the ex-barge traffic lower
than local rates or joint barge-rail rates lower than the
combinations.
"The facts of record, as detailed by the division and
summarized herein, clearly show that respondents are justified under section 1 in treating the ex-barge traffic the
same as local or ex-truck traffic and that the proposed
10

Even under the proposed schedules, the combination barge-rail
rates are in many instances lower than the all-rail rates. Much grain
that arrives at Chicago is consumed locally or is shipped out by lake.
In the case of grain arriving by rail, such disposition often leaves the
elevator with a "transit balance" as a result of which ex-barge grain
may move eastward by rail on the proportional rates.
The District Court apparently did not find that there was no evidence to support the Commission's finding that it was the elevator
operator, rather than the farmer, who is affected by the proposed
schedules. In any event, the foregoing would seem sufficient support
for the Commission's finding, and we do not suppose that the finding
makes any difference in the law to be applied.

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

schedules cannot be condemned as unlawful under sections
2 and 3 of the act.
"On reconsideration of the record in the light of the
petitions and replies thereto and our prior decisions, we
find that:
"(1) The proportional rates here under consideration
were legally applicable on the ex-barge traffic where the
so-called policing provisions were strictly complied with.
"(2) The proposed schedules are shown to be just and
reasonable and are not shown to be otherwise unlawful."
Accordingly the Commission ordered:
"That the order heretofore entered in this proceeding,
suspending the operation of the schedules enumerated and
described in said order, be, and it is hereby, vacated and
set aside as of December 22, 1941, and that this proceeding
be discontinued."
After the Commission had announced its decision and
on December 12, 1941, appellant Mechling Barge Lines
sought to intervene on the ground that since the record
had been closed it had become a regular common carrier
by water of grain by barge to Chicago and other ratebreak points, and was entitled to the protection afforded
to such carriers by the Transportation Act of 1940. It
urged that the decision be set aside and, if it should be
thought necessary to this end, that it be given an opportunity to introduce evidence. This was the first offer to
assist the Commission in any way in the establishment of
proportional rates fixed with reference to the ex-barge
grain. No specific suggestion was made, however, as to
the amount of such rates or as to the evidence which wouldbe introduced in support. This petition was denied by
the Commission on January 21, 1942.
On January 16, 1942, the Inland Waterways Corporation had filed its complaint in the United States District
Court seeking an injunction against the enforcement of
the Commission's order. Various other parties were allowed to intervene in the case as plaintiffs and defend-

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 683
671

Opinion of the Court.

ants. The Attorney General did not participate, giving
as his reason the existence of a conflict in litigation between co~rdinate agencies of the Government, the Agricultural Adjustment Administration and the Interstate
Commerce Commission. The opinion of the specially
constituted three-judge District Court was announced on
April 16, 1942.11 It stated that "The Interstate Commerce Commission took no evidence addressed to the issue
whether the rate proposal in question is in violation of
Section 3 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended
by the Transportation Act of 1940, or contrary to the
National Transportation Policy enacted by the last said
act; but the Interstate Commerce Commission passed
upon the legality of said rate proposal upon evidence taken
without reference to such issues and before they existed."
It concluded that the order was of a "character which this
Court is authorized to enjoin and set aside," and should
be set aside on the ground that it "discriminates against
water competition by the users of barges." It decreed
that the Commission's order vacating the already-expired
suspension of the proposed schedules aid discontinuing
the proceedings be annulled and that the railroads be
"p.ermanently enjoined . . from acting upon the authority of the aforesaid order."
The case is here on appeal.12
In the proceedings before the Commission the protestants pitched their case upon two propositions: (1) To
deny the ex-barge grain the benefit of proportionals sought
to be cancelled was necessarily unlawful since the physical
carriage beyond Chicago was substantially the same, no
matter where the grain originated; (2) Since denial of
that benefit was necessarily unlawful, the Commission was
144 F. Supp. 368.
Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 208, 220,
28 U. S. C. §§ 47, 47a; § 238 of the Judicial Code as amended, 28
U. S. C. § 345.
12

531559-44----47

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

bound to maintain the status quo by cancelling the proposed schedules and thus perpetuating the existing rate
structure, whatever might be its defects.
As the Commission correctly observed with reference
to
the first contention, "to adopt protestants' premise would
mean that all proportional rates lower than local rates
and differing from each other according to the origin of
the commodity would have to be condemned."
Proportional rates so differing and lower than local
rates for like outbound transportation have a long history,
antedating the Interstate Commerce Act itself. Long
hauls have generally been thought entitled to move at a
rate less than the sum of the rates for local or short hauls
between intermediate points. The practice of routing
commodities such as grain to centers for marketing and
processing has, been widespread and often a necessary
feature of the process of distribution. In many instances
stopovers for marketing and processing have not been
considered as disrupting the continuity of transportation
to more distant points, and consequently the grain has
been allowed to move on at a rate lower than the outbound
rate on grain originating locally and not from a distance."3
To get the outbound business competing carriers frequently would offer rates similarly computed." Proportional rates established on this reasoning 15 have become
deeply embedded in the transportation system of the
country, and have been approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission," by the federal courts, this one in's E. g., Unlawful Rates in Trans. Cotton by K. C., M. & B. R. R.
Co., 8 I. C. C. 121; Central Yellow Pine Assn. v. V., S. & P. R. Co.,
10 1. C. C. 193.
1
,Berry, A Study of Proportional Rates, 10 I. C. C. Practitioner's
Journal
545, 602.
5

. For the variety of practices so sustained, see Locklin, Economics

of Transportation (1935), pp. 122-123, 629-631.
See the dissenting opinion of Chairman Eastman in the present
case. Other cases are collected in Berry, 8upra, footnote 14.

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 685
671

Opinion of the Court.

eluded; 7 and, so far as it, has spoken on the subject, by
Congress itself. 8 We see no reason for repudiating them
now.

Having pointed out the error of the protestants' basic
contention, the Commission stated that: "It follows that
the protestants' allegations cannot be sustained in this
proceeding, although in a proper proceeding we might prescribe proportional rates on the ex-barge traffic lower than
local rates or joint barge-rail rates lower than the combinations." Pending the commencement of such a proceeding it ordered the vacation of the already-expired order of
suspension and ordered the discontinuance of the instant
proceedings.
Despite this statement, much of the argument in this
Court has proceeded upon the assumption that the Commission's order resulted from its belief and findings that
the discrepancies between the proportional rates not cancelled in the proposed schedules and the local rates as applied to ex-barge grain were in all respects lawful, and that
it actually approved or prescribed a rate structure containing such discrepancies. We do not so understand the
action of the Commission.
True, the Commission stated that the railroads "are
justified under section 1 in treating the ex-barge traffic the
same as local or ex-truck traffic," and found that "the proposed schedules are shown to be just and reasonable." But
this does not constitute a finding that the rates were lawful; they "may lie within the zone of reasonableness and
yet result in undue prejudice" or otherwise violate the
Act.'" The Commission also stated that the facts of record
' Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 768; Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. Sullivan, 294 U. S. 458; cf. Board of Trade v.
United States, 314 U. S. 534.
18 § 11 of the Panama Canal Act, 1912, 37 Stat. 566, now 49 U. S. C.
§ 6 (11), set out in its present form in footnote 25, infra. Cf. Sen.
Rept. No. 433, 76th Cong., Ist Sess., p. 10.
19 United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U. S. 515, 524.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

show that 'the proposed schedules cannot be condemned
as unlawful under sections 2 and 3 of the act." 20 But this
statement followed immediately upon the Commission's
statement that from its conclusion that protestants' claim
as a matter of right to the existing proportionals was erroneous, "It follows that the protestants' allegations cannot be sustained in this proceeding, although in a proper
proceeding we might prescribe proportional rates on the
ex-barge traffic lower than local rates or joint barge-rail
rates lower than the combinations." Read in the context,
we think it meant only that the proposed schedules could
not be struck down upon the erroneous view advanced by
the protestants. The finding of the Commission that the
proposed schedules "are not shown to be otherwise unlawful" is, we think, to be similarly read. This form of finding has been held by the Commission not to constitute an
21
approval or a prescription of the rates under suspension.
Since the Commission refused to approve or prescribe
20 § 2, 49 U. S. C. § 2, reads as follows:
"If any common carrier subject to the provisions of this chapter shall,
directly or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback, or other
device, charge, .demand, collect, or receive from any person or persons
a greater or less compensation for any service rendered or to be
rendered, in the transportation of passengers or property, subject to
the provisions of this chapter, than it charges, demands, collects, or
receives from any other person or persons for doing for him or them
a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like
kind of traffic under substantially similar circumstances and conditions,
such common carrier shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination,
which is prohibited and declared to be unlawful."
The pertinent provisions of § 3 are set forth in footnote 4, supra.
21 Standard Packing Co. v. Union Pacific R. Co., 190 I. C. C.433;
Parkersburg Rig & Reel Co. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 198 I. C. C.
709; William Kelly Milling Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 211
I. C. C. 53; Kansas City Ice Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 215
I. C. C. 616, 619; Halifax Coal & Wood Co. v. Atlantic & Y. Ry. Co.,
219 I. C. C. 594; Morehead Cotton Mills Co. v. Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co., 231 I. C. C. 437.

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 687
671

Opinion of the Court.

them, they stand only as carrier-made rates which, under
the Commission's decisions, leaves them open to possible
recovery of reparations.22 Like the Commission, we also
refrain from approving or prescribing them.
The case had been developed before the Commission
upon the theory that the proposed schedules must stand
or fall in their entirety. There has been no suggestion,
nor is it apparent, that it would have been feasible for the
Commission to pick and choose among the items in the
existing and proposed schedules.
To perpetuate the existing rate structure by sustaining
the District Court's injunction would entail numerous and
serious violations of § 4 (1).21 Under that rate structure,
ex-barge grain moved from Illinois River points to Baltimore, New York and Boston at combination rates lower
than the local rates for domestic grain from all points in
Central Territory west of a line running south from Bay
City, Michigan, through Fort Wayne and Indianapolis,
Indiana. So also did the ex-barge grain move out at
combination rates lower than local export rates on grain
from all points in Central Territory west of a line running
southwardly and south along the Indiana-Ohio line; and
lower than the local export rates on corn from all points
in Central Territory west of a line between Paynesville
and East Liverpool, Ohio, near the Pennsylvania line.
Unlike the barge-rail rate, the all-rail rates are, as the
Commission has found, in strict conformity with § 4 (1).
Congress by the Transportation Act of 1940 amended
§ 4 (1), but nowhere in the Act or in its legislative history
is there any suggestion that from the mere fact that grain
moving from beyond Chicago to New York travels by
barge for the 60-mile leg of its journey to Chicago-less
22

See cases cited in footnote 21, supra. Compare Arizona Grocery

Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 284 U. S. 370; 50 Yale Law
Journal 714.
28 See footnote 2, upra,for the text.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

than one percent of the total haul-it shall as matter of
law be entitled to a rate from beyond Chicago to the seaboard less than that from the Pennsylvania line to the
seaboard.2 '
Appellees make no better showing with respect to the
effect of the injunction on the rate structure west of Chicago. To sustain the injunction would require a holding
that grain originating 60 miles from Chicago must as
matter of law be given the benefit of proportionals fixed
with reference to grain from the Northwest Territory,
embracing points in Canada and as far west in the United
States as Washington and the Dakotas. In addition to
the disparity in distances, there is the further fact that
the grain from the Northwest is predominately wheat,
while that from the territory served by the barge lines is
predominately corn from Illinois. Nothing in the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by the Transportation
Act of 1940, or in the statements of even the most ardent
Congressional champions of water transportation, affords
the slightest warrant for a decision that the Commission
must treat as legally identical such widely disparate factual
situations.
Finally it is claimed that the Commission was obliged
to continue the § 15 (7) proceedings and establish special
proportionals for the barge lines under § 6 (11) of the Act.2
24

Indeed, the legislative history shows that the water interests

vigorously championed the long-and-short-haul clause as a measure
necessary to prevent ruinous competition.
28 § 6 (11) provides:

"When property may be or is transported from point to point in
the United States by rail and water through the Panama Canal or
otherwise, the transportation being by a common carrier or carriers,
and not entirely within the limits of a single State, the Interstate
Commerce Commission shall have jurisdiction of such transportation
and of the carriers, both by rail and by water, which may or do engage

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 689
671

Opinion of the Court.

This duty is claimed by appellees to derive from the provision of §15 (7) that after suspension and hearing of a proposed rate change the Commission "may make such order
with reference thereto as would be proper in a proceeding
initiated after it had become effective." (Italics supplied.) The construction contended for would have the
effect either of imposing a practically impossible burden
upon the Commission or of making resort to the Commission's powers under § 15 (7) so rare as to make such powers
of little practical significance. Suspension cases are very
numerous, and in many of them the construction contended for would require the Commission to "readjust the
entire rate structure of an important section of the country." 26 We have already noted the breadth of the rate
structure here involved. To require the present proceedings to be continued until proportionals can be set with
reference to the barge transportation would hardly be
within the intention of Congress, which in terms made the
Commission's power discretionary, and legislated upon
the assumption, formed after much experimentation with
the period of suspension, 27 that suspension cases could norin the same, in the following particulars, in addition to the jurisdiction
othirwise givefi by this chapter:
"... (b) To establish proportional rates or maximum, or minimum, or maximum and minimum proportional rates, by rail to and
from the ports to which the traffic is brought, or from which it is
taken by the water carrier, and to determine to what traffic and in
connection with what vessels and upon what terms and conditions such
rates shall apply. By proportional rates are meant those which differ
from the corresponding local rates to and from the port and which
apply only to traffic which has been brought to the port or is carried
from the port by a common carrier by water." 49 U. S. C. § 6 (11).
26 Salt from Louisiana Mines to Chicago, 69 I. C. C. 312, 313. See
also, Livestock to Eastern Destinations, 156 I. C. C. 498.
27 In the original form provided by § 12 of the Mann-Elkins Act,
1910, 36 Stat. 539, 552, the period of suspension was not to exceed

690

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

mally be carried to completion within seven months and to
that end commanded in § 15 (7) that "the Commission
shall give to the hearing and decision of such questions
preference over all other questions pending before it and
decide the same as speedily as possible."
The record had been dosed on January 26, 1940, when
the last testimony was heard. The Transportation Act
of 1940 Was not enacted until September 18. At the time
the evidence was taken it was not clear whether some of
the barge lines operating in the waterway were common
carriers, and none had obtained certificates of convenience
and necessity from the Commission as now required.
They ha4 not filed reports with the Commission from
which the results of their own operations might be judged,
and they had not filed tariffs showing their rates. All of
this has since changed. The applicable law has changed.
The issues raised by the position of the parties did not call
120 days, with the proviso that if the hearing could not be concluded within that period the Commission might in its discretion
extend the time for a further period not exceeding six months. § 4 of
the Commission Division Act, 1917, 40 Stat. 270, 272, provided that
until January 1, 1920, Commission approval must be had for the filing
of increased rates. By § 418 of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41
Stat. 456, 486, the initial suspension period of 120 days was retained,
but the permissible period of further suspension was shortened to thirty
days. "The increased size of the Commission and its divisional organization rendered the shortening of the suspension period feasible." 1
Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce Commission, 203. The Commission was authorized, however, to require the carrier to keep accurate
account in detail of all amounts received by reason of an increase going
into effect at the end of the period of suspension, and to require at the
end of the hearing that they be refunded. The present provisions with
regard to the Commission's power of suspension and of requiring an
accounting were enacted by § 2 of the Mayton-Newfield Act, 1927, 44
Stat. 1446, 1447.

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 691
Opinion of the Court.

671

for a fixing of new combination rates, for it was contended
barge grain was entitled to the existing proportionals.
The policy provisions of the Transportation Act of 1940,
as well as the specific statutory provisions, provide only
standards of considerable generality and some overlapping.
It requires administration to "recognize and preserve the
inherent advantages of each"-rail, water, and motor
transport. It also seeks "sound economic conditions" for
all kinds of transportation.28 For more than a year after
the enactment of this Act, and until after the Commission
had finally disposed of the case, appellees showed no
disposition to make proposals or to develop a record upon
the basis of which the Commission might prescribe rates
in view of their particular circumstances and under the
provisions of the Act designed with reference to them.
Instead they relied upon the erroneous view that they
were by law entitled to the fortuitous and in many respects
unlawful benefits of the existing rate structure. Their
nearly four years of litigation have not, however, been in
vain, for during all this time they have managed to keep
the proposed schedules in abeyance-first by compulsory
suspension for the allowable period of 7 months at the
hands of the Commission, then by the railroads' voluntary
act at the expiration of that period, and finally by the
compulsion of the District Court's injunction.
Our function does not permit us either to prescribe or
approve rates, and our decision carries no implication of
approval of any rates here involved. Nor are we at liberty
to prescribe general attitudes the Commission must adopt
towards the exercise of discretion left to it rather than to
courts. We decide only whether the Commission has
acted within the power delegated to it by law. We are of
28

See footnote 4, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

opinion that it has and that the decision of the court
below must be
Rever8ed.
MR. JusTICE RUTLEDGE did not participate in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.
MR.JusTICE BLAcx, dissenting:

The issue in this case is whether the farmers and shippers of the middle west can be compelled by the Interstate
Commerce Commission and the railroads to use highpriced rail instead of low-priced barge transportation for
the shipment of grain to the east. I agree that, in the
words of Division 2 of the Commission, "this record is
replete with complexities and technicalities" which have
almost, but I think not quite, successfully obscured that
simple issue. The District Court, which held that the
Interstate Commerce Commission's order "discriminates
against water competition by the users of barges," understood the issue. 1 The railroads, which proposed the increase in the cost to barge shippers, also understood the
issue as is shown by the frank statement of their representative at the Commission hearing: "We made this
proposal, as I have stated several times, and filed these
tariffs with the hope that we could drive this business off
of the water and back onto the rails where it beloigs ...
We are not in love with water transportation . . . and we

believe that we are entitled to that grain business." From
behind a verbal camouflage of "complexities and technicalities" there emerges one single easily understandable question: Railroads pick up grain in Chicago which may be
brought there by rail, lake transport, or inland waterway
barge. Is it lawful for a railroad to deprive midwestern
grain farmers and shippers of the benefits of cheap barge
transportation by charging a higher tariff for re-shipment
of grain originally transported to Chicago by barge than
1 44

F. Supp. 368, 375.

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 693
671

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

the same railroad charges for re-shipment of the same
grain from Chicago to the same places when the grain
is brought to the re-shipping point by rail or by lake?
The record shows, and it was admitted at the bar, that
barges can by reason of their inherent advantages carry
grain more cheaply than railroads. The Commission
found that inbound grain barge rates to Chicago ranged
from 2.75 to 4.5 cents per hundred pounds for hauls of
distances of 57 to 200 miles as contrasted with rail rates
for the same distances ranging from 9.5 to 13 cents. Grain
can thus be brought to Chicago far more cheaply by barge
than by rail. However, only a small proportion of the
grain which is sent to Chicago stays in that city, and the
new tariff approved by the Commission and by this Court
will charge so much more for the shipment of grain to the
east when the grain is brought to Chicago by barge than
is charged for shipment of grain brought in by rail that
this natural advantage of barge transportation will be
destroyed. Hereafter it will cost 8.5 cents more to ship
ex-barge than ex-rail grain to the east.' Under the existing rates, a farmer can ship his grain from Kansas City to
New York by barge to Chicago and rail from Chicago to
New York for 4.625 cents less than if he uses rail transport
all the way from Kansas City to New York. Under the
new schedule approved today, that differential is wiped
out, and he will hereafter pay 3.875 more to ship by barge
and rail than if he ships rail all the way. This order in
substance gives ex-barge traffic a 4-cent disadvantage
where it previously had a 4-cent advantage. Similar penalties are imposed upon shippers who use barge lines in
Missouri, Iowa, and Illinois. The Commission, as its sole
finding on the impact of the rates on the barge lines, found
that the new rates would not "prohibit" barge shipments.
2 The figure given is the increase in cost of shipment to the best
eastern market.

grain.

The cost varies, depending on the destination of the

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

Such a finding is irrelevant. A rate need not be prohibitive to be discriminatory. The new rate is manifestly
intended to and will have the effect of transferring most
of the barge traffic to the riilroads, since shippers will
not customarily pay 10% more to ship by barge-rail than
by rail alone.'
Certain questions may be put to one side without elaborate discussion. The new rates cannot be justified on a
theory of distinction between long and short hauls since
the distances covered are substantially the same whether
barge-rail or all-rail transportation is used. The Court
asserts that the existing all-rail rates are lawful under the
long and short haul clauses, while the existing barge-rail
rates are unlawful. But there is nothing in the long and
short haul clause which requires that shippers by rail to
Chicago from points in Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, and Missouri must be granted a low rate for shipment beyond
Chicago which is denied to those who ship into Chicago
by barge. Nor is the fact that the rates directly affected
by the new tariff are "proportional" of any significance."
8
Th new rates for shipment from Chicago to the east of course
do not "prohibit" barge shipments to Chicago since the small amount
of grain consumed in that city will not be affected by the outgoing
rates, and some grain can still be carried to the east by lake transportation for so much of the year as the lakes are open to traffic.
The Court quotes the finding of the Commission that "the proposed
schedules are not prohibitive" and that their principal effect will be to
reduce the profits of the Chicago elevator operators. If the schedules
operate unfairly, as I think they do, it is immaterial whether the
farmers or the elevator operators bear the burden of the unfairness;
but the Court in rhlying on this finding pays little regard to the fact
that the court below found as a fact that the saving from barge transporation "accrues to the producer" and "does not accrue to the Chicago
elevator operator." Unless the Court is willing, as apparently it is
not, to regxamine the evidence and to conclude that the court below
is in error, we must take the facts as they are given to us by the District Court. In any case, I think the District Court was correct.
I "A through rate is ordinarily lower than the combination of the
local rates. When a through rate is made by combination of rates

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 695
671

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

A through rate may be invalid because of one factor only
of the combination of rates which make it up, "and that
factor may be a proportional rate." 5 The only issue to be
decided is whether the barge shipper shipping from a given
point to Chicago should be given any different proportional rate than rail shippers shipping from the same point
to Chicago for equal service out of Chicago, and, for rea.
sons to be set forth below, I find no justification for such
a discrimination.6
There is no factual issue here on which we are bound
to accept the Commission's judgment as we were in United
States v. Chicago Heights Trucking Co., 310 U. S. 344.
Here we have a rate revision which can serve no conceivable purpose except to force shippers to use railroads instead of barge lines. Reasonable persons may differ as
to the wisdom of such a policy, but not as to the certainty
of its result; and, as will be shown, Congress has made the
policy judgment and has flatly forbidden the Commission
to do what it has done.

The situation is similar to

Mitchell v. United States, 313 U. S. 80, 97, in which the
Commission sought to shelter a flatly forbidden discrimination behind the shield of expertise. There, too, we were
cited to the Chicago Heights case and our many other
for intermediate distances the rate for the later link in the shipment
is,when lower than the local, spoken of as a proportional rate." Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S.768, 771.
6 Ibid., 776.
6The Commission and the Court refer to the fact that ex-barge
rates are now equal to ex-truck rates. This is irrelevant. If there
is a discrimination against truck shippers, the remedy is an improvement of their situation, not a destruction of barge shipping. In the
words of Chairman Eastman in his dissenting opinion, "My tentative
opinion upon it is that where the movement by truck is from territory
from which grain can be moved by rail or by water to Chicago subject
to the application of the reshipping rates east-bound, the failure to
apply such rates to the grain brought in by truck does result in violation of sections 2 and 3, provided adequate provisions for the identification and policing of such shipments are practicable and enforceable."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Burcx, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

decisions upholding the right of administrative agencies
to make factual judgments. We replied that "On the
facts here presented, there is no room, as the Government
properly says, for administrative or expert judgment with
respect to practical difficulties. It is enough that the discrimination shown was palpably unjust and forbidden by
the Act." Such I think should be our answer here.
This tariff is an unjust discrimination within the meaning of § 2 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 2,
which prohibits a carrier from demanding a charge either
higher or lower than is charged by any other person for
doing for him "a like and contemporaneous service in the
transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions." Many decisions
make clear that this section does in fact require a real
equality. InterstateCommerce Commission v. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co., 225 U. S. 326; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co.
v. United States, 279 U. S. 768. The Commission counters
with a contention that here there is "a dissimilarity of
conditions prior to the rendering of the transportation
service for which the charge in issue is assessed." True
there is a difference, if only one, in the conditions prior to
the rendering of the service from Chicago to the east.
The difference is solely that one class of grain moves in to
Chicago by barge and another moves in by other means;
and this is a ground not of legitimate distinction, but of
unfair discrimination. The discrimination would be no
worse if the benefits of the cheap through rates were given
only to shippers on a favored railroad coming into Chicago, and not to other shippers by rail. Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, supra, 773. Here all circumstances and conditions are substantially similar, and
the Court ought to require the Commission to obey the
law by following its own previously announced rule in
Chattanooga Packet Co. v. Illinois Central R.. Co., 33
I. C. C. 384, 392, 393, in which the Commission said: "If

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 697
671

BLCK, J., dimenting.

carriers are permitted to apply higher rates for the same
service on traffic routed over connecting water lines than
on traffic via their all-rail connections, they will be in a
position to destroy all water competition and to deprive
shippers of the advantage of their location upon navigable
waters. ...
We are of the opinion and find that, by
restricting their proportional rates to traffic routed over
their southern rail connections, defendants are unjustly
discriminating against complainant and against shippers
who desire to route their goods over complainant's boat
line."
The decision of the Commission also violates § 3 (4)
of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 3 (4), which
under the 1940 amendment to the Interstate Commerce
Act is applicable to the appellees, and which forbids carriers to "discriminate in their rates, fares, and charges
between connecting lines." This section became applicable to the appellees in the course of the Commission's
disposition of this case, but before its opinion was filed.
This circumstance is not, as the Commission seems to have
supposed, a reason for ignoring the section. No more obvious "discrimination in their rates, fares, and charges" can
be imagined, particularly in the light of the general policy
of the Transportation Act of 1940.
I think that approval of this tariff is a defiance of the
Transportation Act of 1940. 54 Stat. 899. This Act declared it to be "the national transportation policy of the
Congress to provide for fair and impartial regulation of all
modes of transportation subject to the provisions of this
Act, so administered as to recognize and preserve the inherent advantages of each." Title I, § 1. The Act commands the Interstate Commerce Commission that "all of
the provisions of this Act shall be administered and enforced with a view of carrying out the above declaration of
policy." Congress, fearful, in the words of several members, that the Commission was "essentially q, railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

minded body," ' took every precaution to prevent discrimination against water carriers. 8
184 Cong. Rec. 5965, 5883, 5880-81. Legislation similar in purpose to the 1940 Act was considered by Congressional committees in
the 74th and subsequent Congresses. Opposition to legislation giving
the Commission authority over water transportation came from representatives of the water shippers. A typical protest was made by
Cleveland A. Newton, General Counsel, Mississippi Valley Association,
in the hearings before the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, House of Representatives, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., on H. R. 5379:
"This bill if enacted into law will place water carriers along the
coast and upon our inland rivers under the absolute domination and
control of the Interstate Commerce Commission. That Commission
was created to regulate, conserve, and control railways. It is a railway-regulating agency. It naturally has the railway viewpoint, and
past experience convinces us that the Commission, as now constituted,
is railway-minded and that it would not be in the public interest to
place water services under its domination and control ....

We have

observed the performance of the Commission in the past, under a comprehensive declaration of policy enacted by Congress, and that experience, we regret to say, has not inspired confidence." Hearings,
p. 471.
8 "Mr. Lucas: . . . Under the bill, as I understand it, the Interstate Commerce Commission would have the power, and it would be
its duty, to fix rates on the Illinois River with respect to the transportation of that wheat and corn. Would it be possible for the Interstate
*Commerce Commission to fix the rate the same as the railroad rate
from that point to St. Louis?
"Mr. Wheeler: Not if the Commission does its duty, because the bill
specifically provides that it must take into consideration the inherent
advantages of the water carrier. Everyone agrees that goods can be
shipped more cheaply by water than by rail." 84 Cong. Rec. 5879.
The following Senators and Representatives, among others,. either
required assurance that the Commission would not discriminate against
water carriers or expressed the conviction that under the statement of
policy, the Commission would be unable to discriminate against water
carriers: Senators Austin, Clark of Missouri, Connally, Ellender, Lucas,
Miller, McNary, Norris, Pepper, Shipstead, Truman, and Wheeler;
Representatives Bland, Bulwinkle, Crosser, Culkin, Halleck, Lea, Pierce
of Oregon, Sparkman, and Wadsworth.

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 699
BLACK, J., dissenting.

671

Senators, particularly those from the midwestern states
where the barge lines involved here were operating, were
especially fearful that the Commission would do substantially what it has done in this case. They required repeated assurance by the Chairman of the Interstate Commerce Committee of the Senate that the bill was written in
such manner that the Commission could not if it desired
permit discrimination against water carriers. At great
length the Chairman of that Committee explained to apprehensive Senators that the bill contained provisions in
three different places which imposed upon the Commission
the imperative duty of standing in constant opposition to
discrimination against shippers by water."
House members shared the same fears. The first conference report was defeated in the House because it was
believed that the bill did not offer adequate protection for
water carriers against hostile Interstate Commerce Commission action." A proponent of the bill told the House
that "It is not fair to suggest, in my opinion, that the Commission and the courts will not look to this declaration of
policy whenever they are called upon to make such construction of the statute and application of it . . . The
specific provisions of the bill carry out the declaration of
policy. The courts and commissions will recognize that.
11 Defending the policy provisions as a complete
protection against Commission action antagonistic to
barge transportation, another sponsor of the bill, opposing
a safeguarding amendment, declared that to consider it
necessary "You will have to further assume that the Interstate Commerce Commission will not enforce it. You will
S84 Cong. Rec. 6125-6128.
'0 The first conference report was rejected by the House on May 9,
1940, 86 Cong. Rec. 5886. The second report was accepted on Aug.
12, 1940, 86 Cong. Rec.:10193.
1184 Cong. Ree. 9865.
531559-44-----48

700

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BucK,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

have to assume that if a case goes to the courts, the courts
will neither construe nor enforce the provisions of this
policy." 1 As I see it,
the Commission in this case has
declined to enforce Congress' policy and the Court has
failed to construe and enforce the Act as Congress clearly
intended it should.
This is not all. The first conference report having been
defeated, the second conference report brought in changes
intended to offer more protection to water carriers. The
conferees reported that: "This measure will place upon
the Interstate Commerce Commission, not only the power,
but the duty, to protect and foster water transportation
and preserve its inherent advantages." 13 As a closing,
clinching argument intended to persuade the House that
the Commission would be fair to water carriers, the statement of Commissioner Eastman (who dissented from the
order of the Commission here) was quoted. Eastman
assured the Congressmen interested in water transportation that certain provisions of the bill "coupled with the
admonition in the declaration of policy in section 1 that
the provisions of the act be so administered as to recognize
and preserve the inherent advantages of each mode of
transportation will afford adequate protection in this respect. If experience should show that further protection
is needed, contrary to our expectAition, Congress can
amend the act, but such a restriction as is now proposed is,
we believe, both unnecessary and undesirable." 14
12 84 Cong. Rec. 9863.
13 86 Cong. Rec. 10172.
14 86 Cong. Rec. 10191. In his dissenting opinion, Chairman Eastman said: "The report states that the 'proposed schedules will not
prohibit the movement by barge-rail even to trunk-line territory, their
principal commercial effect being to reduce the profit of the Chicago
elevator operators.'

I do not so understand the evidence ....

As I

understand it, the effect of the proposed schedules, unless the prices
paid to the farmers whose grain is barged ar6 reduced, will be to limit
the outlet of the ex-barge grain to local consumption in Chicago and
to the lake and lake-rail routes to eastern points."

I. C. C. v. INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. 701
671

BrAcK, J., dissenting.

The final statement of the last proponent of the 1940
Act, spoken just before the vote was taken on the second
conference report, were these: "There is nothing whatever
in the pending measure which could by any fair interpretation be regarded as unjust to water transportation or to
any other kind of transportation." The speaker then read
the policy provisions of § 1 and asked: "How much plainer
could language be than that is? It is crystal clear that
there is no basis in the bill for the apprehension expressed
by those opposed to the measure." 15
Although these proceedings were not initiated under the
1940 Act,16 the Commission should have felt itself bound
by that Congressional expression of policy. Yet the legislative history just recited makes it clear that the Commission has flagrantly flouted the express mandate of Congress. It is said, however, that the Commission reserves
the right to take further action in a "proper proceeding"
in which it "might prescribe proportional rates [on the exbarge traffic] or joint barge-rail rates lower than the combinations." At some future day the Commission may
correct this discrimination. But the day for Commission
action was the day this case was decided, and the day for
action by this Court is now. The Commission is not
bound by the technical procedures of the common law, and
it should not strain to avoid the enforcement of Congressional will because of the formal fashion in which questions
are presented to it. In this proceeding it was.the Commission's duty "to protect and maintain a transportation
25 86

Cong. Rec. 10192.
The 1940 Act gave the Commission jurisdiction to regulate water
transportation directly. Here the same effect is achieved under the
Commission's other powers by a tariff aimed at shippers whe have
previously used water transportation. For the background and nature
of the 1940 Act see Eastman, The Transportation Problem, 30 Amer.
Econ. Rev. 124; Stein, Federal Reguiation of Water Carriers, 16 Jour.
16

Land and Pub. Util. Econ. 478; Harbeson, The Transportation Act of
1940, 17 ibid. 291; Regulation of Water Carriers, 50 Yale L. Jour. 654.

702

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLcx, J., dissenting.

319 TJ. S.

system free from partiality to particular shippers. The
Commission acted in its capacity as a public agency" and
was obligated to carry out "duties imposed upon it by Congress in the interest of shippers generally, the national
transportation system and the public interest." United
States v. Chicago Heights Trucking Co., supra, 354. The
fact that this was not a formal proceeding to fix proportional rates under § 6 (11) (b) did not detract from the
Commission's powers. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 274 U. S. 29, 36; United States v. New York
CentralR. Co., 272 U. S. 457,462. The Commission itself
in cases where the command of Congress was far less emphatic than here, has stated that an investigation and
suspension proceeding such as this one "opens for consideration the lawfulness of the suspended rates under all provisions of the act." Sugar From Gulf Coast Port Groups
To Northern Points, 234 I. C. C. 247, 251. "The reproach
of dealing with the matter piecemeal" is incurred by the
Commission here as it was in United States v. Chicago,
M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 499, 510. It cannot, with
due regard to its duty, shift responsibility "from the shoulders of the present to the shoulders of the days to come."
Here as in that case, postponement serves to leave "this
particular carrier helpless in the interval." 11
Congressman Bland, who opposed the 1940 Act on the
ground that it lacked sufficient safeguards to prevent action
by the Commission hostile to water transportation called
" The Court interprets the Commission's order as leaving open the
right of the shippers affected to bring actions for reparations for injuries suffered under the new rates. This will bring small practical
comfort to the barge lines since the shippers will be unlikely to ship
by barge when the price of every shipment is dependent on future legal
proceedings. The barge lines, "helpless in the interval" pending new

legal proceedings, risk serious financial injury, if not bankruptcy.
While the shippers can ship by barge now and sue later, they are
presumably interested in buying transportation, not lawsuits.

DIRECT SALES CO. v. U. S.
671

Statement of the Case.

attention to the procedural delays in rate cases before that
body, delays which he declared would be used to strangle
financially weak water carriers, forcing them to "yield or
transfer their operation to other streams." He pointed
out this "would mean the death of water carriers"; that
the railroads knew how to obtain delay and knew the disastrous consequences that would follow to their competitors; that railroads "seek to profit" by procedural delay; and that the diversity of their interests and extent of
their revenues was so great that they could survive delays which would be unendurable for competitors. 8 The
Congressman was a good observer and a sound prophet.
The judgment of the District Court enjoining enforcement of this order was correct and should be affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR. JusTICE MURPHY join in

this opinion.
DIRECT SALES CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 593. Argued April 12, 1943.-Decided June 14, 1943.
A mail-order wholesale drug corporation made sales of morphine
sulphate to a physician in unusually large quantities, frequently, and

over an extended period. Held, that the evidence, from which it
could be inferred that the seller not only knew the physician was
selling the drug illegally but intended to coiperate with him therein,
was sufficient to sustain the seller's conviction of conspiracy to violate the Harrison Narcotic Act. United States v. Falcone,311 U. S.
205, distinguished. P. 714.
131 F. 2d 835, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S.749, to review the affirmance of a
conviction for conspiracy to violate the Harrison Narcotic
Act. See also 44 F. Supp. 623.
18

86 Cong. Rec. 10181.

