484

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Statement of the Case.

319 U. S.

Certificate No. 76. Isabelle Garden probably would have
been able to compromise her 1928-34 taxes even more
advantageously if the County had not asserted its unwarranted claims for the years 1922-25 during which,
period the property was still tax exempt. That is sufficient to warrant recovery of the amount paid for Assignment Certificate No. 76 in discharge of the 1922-25
taxes."

BARTCHY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 762. Argued May 12, 1943.-Decided June 7, 1943.
1. Sec. 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act and § 641.3 of the
rules made pursuant thereto, declaring it the duty. of each registrant
to keep his local board advised of the address where mail will reach
him, do not require a registrant who is expecting a notice of
induction to remain at any one place or to notify the local board
of his every move or of his every temporary address. P. 488.
2. The requirement of the rule is satisfied when the registrant, in
good faith, provides a chain of forwarding addresses by which mail,
sent to the address which is furnished the board, may be by the
registrant reasonably expected to come into his hands in time for
compliance. P. 489.
3. The evidence in this case does not justify the inference that the
petitioner had not shown diligence in keeping the local board
advised of his whereabouts, or had endeavored to avoid delivery
of the board's notice of induction. P. 489.
132 F. 2d 348, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

318 U. S. 754, to review a judgment affirming

a conviction under § 11 of the Selective Training and
Service Act.
8 This analysis also indicates that the portion of the assignment

certificate covering the period 1926-34 which discharged the taxes
levied for 1926 and 1927 should be returned. The Government, however, presses no claim for these amounts here.

BARTCHY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

484

Mr. BernardA. Golding for petitioner.
Mr. Valentine Brookes, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs.
Robert S. Erdahl and Richard,S.Salant were on the brief,,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case presents the question of the sufficiency of the
evidence to support petitioner's conviction under § 11 of
the Selective Training and Service Act and the regulations
made thereunder,, for a knowing failure to keep his local
board 2 advised of the address where mail would reach
petitioner, a registrant under the Act. A second count,
on which petitioner was acquitted and which need not
concern us further, charged a knowing failure to comply
with an order to report for induction into the armed
forces. Certiorari was granted because the conviction
involved an interpretation of an important regulation under the Selective Service Act.
With the approval of both parties and the court, petitioner was tried by the court without a jury and on conviction was sentenced to imprisonment for sixty days. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, one judge dissenting.
132 F. 2d 348.
1 Sec. 11 punishes with a maximum of five years imprisonment and
a fine of not more than $10,000 "any person ... who in any manner
shall knowingly fail or neglect to perform any duty required of him
under or in the execution of this Act, or rules or regulations made pursuant to this Act,

. .

."

54 Stat. 885, 894. The regulation involved

provides: "Sec. 641.3 Communication by mail. It. shall be the duty
of each registrant to keep his local board advised at all times of the
address where mail will reach him. The mailing of any order, notice,
or blank form by the local board to a registrant at the address last
reported by him to the local board shall constitute notice to him of
the contents of the communication, whether he actually receives it or
not." 6 Fed. Reg. 6851-52.
2§ 603, 6 Fed. Reg. 6827.

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Petitioner was placed in class l-A, available for general
military service, by Local Board No. 9 in Houston, Texas.
He had already been given a final physical examination by
the Army. On February 4, 1942, petitioner was advised
by his board that his induction would probably take place
in twenty or thirty days. He immediately sought employment as a merchant seaman for a short coastwise trip.
Employment as messman was secured through the National Maritime Union which had active offices in Houston
and in New York. The latter city was the port of destination of the ship Pan Rhode Island upon which petitioner
first shipped. Bartchy secured a union permit card prior
to the voyage and later became a regular member of the
union. The Pan Rhode Island sailed from Tekas City
February 11th and petitioner received his certificate of
discharge from her employment in New York February
20th.
On February 10th Bartchy advised the board by letter
that he was shipping as a seaman on the S. S. Caliche.
He corrected the name on the same day to the 8. S. Pan
Maine. No notice was given the board as to the ship
upon which he actually sailed. In the letter he suggested deferment from induction into military service on
the ground of employment in the merchant marine and
requested that in case deferment was granted it be addressed to 8045 Harrisburg Boulevard, Houston. This
was the office of the National Maritime Union and was
different from his address, 7543 Harrisburg Boulevard,
previously given the board. Bartchy arranged with the
Houston office of the union to forward his induction notice
to the union's New York office.
On, or shortly after, February 20, 1942, a notice to re.port for induction on March 4 was mailed to petitioner.
It arrived at the Houston office of the union promptly
and was forwarded to its New York office pursuant to the
instructions left by petitioner. The record does not show

BARTCHY v. UNITED STATES.
484

Opinion of the Court.

the exact time the letter reached New York. The notice
was returned March 12th to the board by the union in
an envelope bearing the union's New York return address
and postmarked Houston, Texas, the same day. It was
not delivered to petitioner although, as will later appear,
he was in New York harbor at the time.
On arrival in New York about February 20th, petitioner talked with Merrell, an executive at that office of the
union, and inquired for mail from his local board. None
was there. On February 25th through, the union he obtained a job on the S. S. American Packard, berthed at
Hoboken, and was on board until March 11th. Sometime between February 20th, when the notice was mailed
at Houston, and March 12th, when it was received by
the local board at Houston, the letter was in Merrell's
hands in New York at the union office. Bartchy was not
advised by Merrel of the receipt of the notice to report
for induction. The Federal Bureau of Investigation
first sought information from Merrell as to Bartchy's
whereabouts on March 10th and 11th. Merrell thereupon informed Bartchy that he was sought after by the
F. B. I. and he came into the union office on March 11th
and was taken into custody.
Bartchy admitted that he knew that the American
Packard was bound for a foreign port and that he was
willing to make the trip unless the induction notice was
received. The ship was not to sail immediately on February 25th and he was not required to sign articles for the
trip; that would be requested of him just before sailing
and after the examination of the seamen by the federal,
particularly naval, representatives. He "had every
reason to think" that before sailing date he would have
word from the board. Asked what he would have done
if he were requested to sign articles for the foreign voyage
on March 10th, the day before the arrest, he said that he
would have first communicated with the board. Pay

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

and lodging were earned by Bartchy through his service
on the American Packard. During his stay on board the
American Packard, Bartchy did not return to New York
union headquarters to inquire for mail.
Merrell testified that in their first conversation petitioner said that he was expecting an induction letter, that
he wished immediately to be informed of its arrival and
that he asked for advice "on how we handled that type
of cases, of men who went to sea." Petitioner also said
that he would like to work in the meantime and asked
whether he should ship. Merrell told him to continue
shipping until the time came to go into the Army. The
witness testified that his customary advice was for such
men to stay aboard ship "until the induction comes in, and
then when the induction comes in, we always arrange, we
always get hold of them ourselves for the draft board."
When the induction notice arrived in the New York office,
it was routed to Merrell and he returned it to the board
under the mistaken impression that the American Packard
had left the harbor bound for a war zone.
As petitioner was acquitted of the charge of knowingly
failing to report and submit to induction into the armed
forces, we shall not deal of course with the situation of a
registrant, so charged, who complied with the duty of
keeping his local board advised of his address and failed
nevertheless to receive, his notice. This petitioner was
convicted only of the charge that he knowingly failed and
ndglected "to keep his local board advised at all times
of the address where mail will reach him."
We think the Government correctly interprets the Act,
§ 11, and the regfilation, § 641.3, not to require a registrant
who is expecting a notice of induction to remain at one
place or to notify the local board of every move or every
address, even if the address be temporary. The Government makes the point, however, that a registrant with

BARTCHY v. UNITED STATES.
484

Opinion. of the Court.

knowledge, as here, of the imminence of the posting of the
notice "is plainly obligated to keep in close communication with the forwarding address." If this suggestion is
meant as a rule of law that at his peril the registrant must
at short intervals inquire at his last address given to the
board, here 7543 Harrisburg Boulevard, Houston, or at
his own forwarding address, here the Maritime Union in
New York, we are of the view that the Government demands more than the regulation requires. The regulation, it seems to us, is satisfied when the registrant, in
good faith, provides a chain of forwarding addresses by
which mail, sent to the address which is furnished the
board. may be by the registrant reasonably expected to
come into his hands in time for compliance.
The District Court and the Court of Appeals concluded
that the petitioner had not shown diligence in keeping
the board advised of his whereabouts and had affirmatively endeavored to avoid delivery of the communication. We do not think either of these inferences is
justified by this record.
The petitioner left with the board an address which in
regular course of mail should and did bring the notice to
the harbor where petitioner was located. The fact that
Bartchy shipped on one ship rather than another to reach
New York is immaterial. On arrival there he went to
his forwarding address, inquired for mail, told the official
in charge he was expecting an induction notice and arranged for notification to him by the union of its arrival.
Bartchy failed to receive the notice because of the mistake of the official of the union when the latter concluded,
without verification, that the S. S. American Packard had
sailed. The union had -information the registrant was
working on that ship.
Petitioner might have been more diligent by telephoning or calling at the union at intervals between the

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

twenty-fifth of February and the tenth of March but we
conclude that he was justified in relying upon the efficiency
of this experienced organization to advise him of the
arrival of the notice.
Reversed.
MR. CHMx JUs cE STONU:
The decision of the two courts below that petitioner
knowingly failed "to keep his Local Board advised at all
times of the address where mail would reach him" is amply
supported by uncontradicted evidence.
The address which petitioner gave the Board was that
of the Maritime Union in Houston, Texas. Mail would
not reach him there because he was not in Houston. Assuming that a forwarding address to a place where mail
would reach him, if forwarded, would satisfy the statutory
requirement, mail would not reach him at his forwarding
address in New York City, for he was not in New York City
in the critical time from February 25 to March 11, during
which he knew from the advice of the Board that his notice
of induction would probably be mailed. He was then living in Hoboken, New Jersey on the S. S. American Packard,
on which he had sought employment as a seaman for a voyage of many months to the Far East, and which, pending
her sailing, was undergoing repairs in Hoboken.
During that time mail would not reach him in New York
City, for he was at no time in New York City, and he at no
time went or sent there for mail, or inquired whether mail
had come for him. Mail would not reach him in Hoboken
or on the American Packard,or "in New York Harbor," because he had not given either as a forwarding address or
given instructions to any one that mail be sent or delivered
to him at either place. The courts below were justified in
concluding that during a period of some weeks, when he expected to receive the notice of the draft board, and when he
was preparing to leave the country for a period of months,

McLEOD v. THRELKELD.
484

Counsel for Parties.

he knowingly failed to keep the Board advised of any ad-,
dress where mail would reach him. The judgment should
be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS joins in this dissent.

McLEOD v.. THRELKELD ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 787.

Argued May 6, 7, 1943.-Decided June 7, 1943.

1. An employee whose work is to prepare meals and serve them to maintenance-of-way employees of an interstate railroad in pursuance
of a contract between his employer and the railroad company is not
"engaged in commerce" within the meaning of §§ 6 and 7 of the
Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 493.
2. The test in determining whether an employee is "engaged in commerce" within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act, §§ 6
and 7, is not whether his activities affect or indirectly relate to
interstate commerce but whether they are actually in or so closely
related to the movement of commerce as to be a part of it. P. 497.
The work of the employee decides this question; it is not important in this case whether his employer was engaged in interstate
,commerce.
131 F. 2d 880, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 318

U. S. 754, to review the affirmance of a

judgment of the District Court, 46 F. Supp. 208, in a
suit brought by McLeod against his employer under §§ 6
and 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Mr. Leon C. Levy, with whom Mr. Harry Dow was on
the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. John P. Bullington for respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs. Richard S. Salant

and Irving J. 'Levy and Miss Bessie Margolin filed a brief
531559-44-35

