DIRECT SALES CO. v. U. S.
671

Statement of the Case.

attention to the procedural delays in rate cases before that
body, delays which he declared would be used to strangle
financially weak water carriers, forcing them to "yield or
transfer their operation to other streams." He pointed
out this "would mean the death of water carriers"; that
the railroads knew how to obtain delay and knew the disastrous consequences that would follow to their competitors; that railroads "seek to profit" by procedural delay; and that the diversity of their interests and extent of
their revenues was so great that they could survive delays which would be unendurable for competitors. 8 The
Congressman was a good observer and a sound prophet.
The judgment of the District Court enjoining enforcement of this order was correct and should be affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR. JusTICE MURPHY join in

this opinion.
DIRECT SALES CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 593. Argued April 12, 1943.-Decided June 14, 1943.
A mail-order wholesale drug corporation made sales of morphine
sulphate to a physician in unusually large quantities, frequently, and

over an extended period. Held, that the evidence, from which it
could be inferred that the seller not only knew the physician was
selling the drug illegally but intended to coiperate with him therein,
was sufficient to sustain the seller's conviction of conspiracy to violate the Harrison Narcotic Act. United States v. Falcone,311 U. S.
205, distinguished. P. 714.
131 F. 2d 835, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S.749, to review the affirmance of a
conviction for conspiracy to violate the Harrison Narcotic
Act. See also 44 F. Supp. 623.
18

86 Cong. Rec. 10181.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

704

Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Mr. William B. Mahoney, with whom Mr. Edwin J.
Culliganwas on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Valentine Brookes, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Messrs. Oscar A.
Provostand W. Marvin Smith and Miss Melva M. Graney
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mn. JUSTICE RUTEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, a corporation, was convicted of conspiracy to
violate the Harrison Narcotic Act.' It challenges the
sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the conviction. Because of asserted conflict with United States v. Falcone,
311 U. S. 205, certiorari was granted.
Petitioner is a registered drug manufacturer and wholesaler.2 It conducts a nationwide mail-order business from
Buffalo, New York. The evidence relates chiefly to its
transactions with one Dr. John V. Tate and his dealings
with others. He was a registered physician, practicing in
Calhoun Falls, South Carolina, a community of about 2,000
persons. He dispensed illegally vast quantities of morphine sulphate purchased by mail from petitioner. The
indictment charged petitioner, Dr. Tate, and three others,
Black, Johnson and Foster, to and through whom Tate
illegally distributed the drugs, with conspiring to violate
1The

conspiracy statute, R. S. § 5440, as amended, 18 U. S. C. § 88,

provides:
"If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense
against the United States, or to defraud the United States in any
manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such parties do any
act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the parties to such
conspiracy shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not
more than two years, or both."
The pertinent provisions of the Harrison Act are set out in note 3,

inira.
2 38

Stat. 785, as amended, 26 U. S. C. §§ 3220, 3221.

DIRECT SALES CO. v. U. S.
703

Opinion of the Court.

§§ 1 and 2 of this Act,' over a period extending from 1933 to
1940. Foster was granted a severance, Black and Johnson pleaded guilty, and petitioner and Dr. Tate were convicted. Direct Sales alone appealed. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affrmed. 131 F. 2d 835.
The parties here are at odds concerning the effect of the
Falcone decision as applied to the facts proved in this case.
The salient facts are that Direct Sales sold morphine sulphate to Dr. Tate in such quantities, so frequently and
over so long a period it must have known he could not
dispense the amounts received in lawful practice and was
therefore distributing the drug illegally. Not only so,
but it actively stimulated Tate's purchases.
He was a small-town physician practicing in a rural
section. All of his business with Direct Sales was done
by mail. Through its catalogues petitioner first made
838 Stat. 785, as amended, 26 U. S. C. §§ 2553,2554. The indictment
charged the conspiracy's object was to violate those portions of the
Act (as amended) which provide:
"It shall be unlawful for any person required to register under the
provisions of this part or section 2551 (a) to import, manufacture,
produce, compound, sell, deal in, dispense, distribute, administer, or
give away any of the aforesaid drugs without having registered and
paid the special tax as imposed by this part, or section 2551 (a)." 26
U. S. C. § 3224.
"It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, sell, dispense, or
distribute any of the drugs mentioned in section 2550 (a) except in the
original stamped package or from the original stamped package; ..
26 U. S. C. § 2553.
"It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter, exchange, or give
away any of the drugs mentioned in section 2550 (a) except in pursuance of a written order of the person to whom such article is sold,
bartered, exchanged, or given, on a form to be issued in blank for that
purpose by the Secretary." 26 U. S. C. § 2554 (a).
"It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain by means of said order
forms any of the aforesaid drugs for any purpose other than the use,
sale, or distribution thereof by him in the conduct of a lawful business in
said drugs or in the legitimate practice of his profession." 26 U. S. C.
§ 2554 (g).

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

contact with him prior to 1933. Originally he purchased
a variety of pharmaceuticals. But gradually the character of his purchases narrowed, so that during the last two
years of the period alleged for the conspiracy he ordered
almost nothing but morphine sulphate. At all times
during the period he purchased the major portion of his
morphine sulphate from petitioner. The orders were
made regularly on his official order forms. The testimony
shows the average physician in the United States does not
require more than 400 one-quarter grain tablets annually
for legitimate use. Although Tate's initial purchases in
1933 were smaller, they gradually increased until, from
November, 1937, to January, 1940, they amounted to
79,000 one-half grain tablets. In the last six months of
1939, petitioner's shipments to him averaged 5,000 to 6,000
half-grain tablets a month, enough as the Government
points out to enable him to give 400 average doses every
day.
These quantity sales were in line with the general mailorder character of petitioner's business. By printed catalogues circulated about three times a month, it solicits
orders from retail druggists and physicians located for the
most part in small towns throughout the country. Of
annual sales of from $300,000 to $350,000 in the period
1936 to 1940, about fifteen per cent by revenue and two
and a half per cent by volume were in narcotics. The
mail-order plan enabled petitioner to sell at prices considerably lower than were charged by its larger competitors, who maintained sales forces and traveling representatives. By offering fifty per cent discounts on narcotics,
it "pushed" quantity sales. Instead of listing narcotics,
like morphine sulphate, in quantities not exceeding 100
tablets, as did many competitors, Direct Sales for some
time listed them in 500, 1,000 and 5,000 tablet units. By
this policy it attracted customers, including a dispropor-

DIRECT SALES CO. v. U. S.
703

Opinion of the Court.

tionately large group of physicians who had been convicted of violating the Harrison Act.
All this was not without warning, purpose or design.
In 1936 the Bureau of Narcotics informed petitioner it
was being used as a source of supply by convicted physicians.' The same agent also warned that the average physician would order no more than 200 to 400 quarter-grain
tablets annually 5 and requested it to eliminate the listing
of 5,000 lots. It did so, but continued the 1,000 and 500 lot
listings at attractive discounts. It filled no more orders
from Tate for more than 1,000 tablets, but continued to
supply him for that amount at half-grain strength. On
one occasion in. 1939 he ordered on one form 1,000 half and
100 quarter grains. Petitioner sent him the 1,000 and advised him to reorder the 100 on a separate order form. It
attached to this letter a sticker printed in red suggesting
anticipation of future needs and taking advantage of discounts offered. Three days later Tate ordered 1,000 more
tablets, which petitioner sent out. In 1940, at the Bureau's suggestion, Direct Sales eliminated its fifty and
ten per cent discounts. But on doing so it translated its
discount into its net price.
Tate distributed the drugs to and through addicts and
purveyors, including Johnson, Black and Foster. Although he purchased from petitioner at less than two dol' Thus, although there were more than 1,350 wholesale drug dealers
in the United States from whom physicians might order narcotics
(Traffic in Opium and Other Dangerous Drugs for the Year Ended
December 31, 1941, United States Treasury, Bureau of Narcotics),
about 27% of the 204 doctors convicted were petitioner's customers
5Testimony in the record establishes that the practice in the profession is to give one-eighth or one-fourth grain doses, and only rarely
one-half grain doses. Cf. United States v. Bermian, 258 U. S. 280,
289. Furthermore, there was expert testimony to the effect that
codein may be, and preferably is, used for the same medical purposes
as morphine sulphate. During the period from 1934 to 1940, however,
the record does not show that Tate ever ordered codein from petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S.

lars, he sold at prices ranging from four to eight dollars
per 100 half-grain tablets and purveyors from him charged
addicts as much as $25 per hundred.
On this evidence, the Government insists the case is in
different posture from that presented in United States v.
Falcone. It urges that the effort there was to connect the
respondents with a conspiracy between the distillers on
the basis of the aiding and abetting statute.' The attempt failed because the Court held the evidence did not
establish the respondents knew of the distillers' conspiracy. There was no attempt to link the supplier and the
distiller in a conspiracy inter sese. But in this case that
type of problem is presented. Direct Sales was tried, and
its conviction has been sustained, according to the claim,
on the theory it could be convicted only if it were found
that it and Tate conspired together to subvert the order
form provisions of the Harrison Act. As the brief puts
the Government's view, "Petitioner's guilt was not made
to depend at all upon any guilt of Dr. Tate growing out
of his relationship to defendants other than petitioner or
upon whether these other defendants were linked with the
Tate-Direct Sales conspiracy."
On the other hand, petitioner asserts this case falls
squarely within the facts and the ruling in the Falconecase.
It insists there is no more to show conspiracy between itself
and Tate than there was to show conspiracy between the
respondent sellers and the purchasing distillers there. At
most, it urges, there were only legal sales by itself to
Dr. Tate, accompanied by knowledge he was distributing
goods illegally. But this, it contends, cannot amount to
conspiracy on its part with him, since in the Falconecase
the respondents sold to the distillers, knowing they would
use the goods in illegal distillation.
*R. S. § 5323, 18 U. S. C. § 550.

DIRECT SALES CO. v. U. S.
703

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner obviously misconstrues the effect of the
Falcone decision in one respect. This is in regarding it
as deciding that one who sells to another with knowledge
that the buyer will use the article for an illegal purpose
cannot, under any circumstances, be found guilty of conspiracy with the buyer to further his illegal end. The assumption seems to be that, under the ruling, so long as the
seller does not know there is a conspiracy between the
buyer and others, he Cannot be guilty of conspiring with
the buyer, to further the latter's illegal and known intended
use, by selling goods to him.
The Falconecase creates no such sweeping insulation for
sellers to known illicit users. That decision comes down
merely to this, that one does not become a party to a conspiracy by aiding and abetting it, through sales of supplies or otherwise, unless he knows of the conspiracy;
and the inference of such knowledge cannot be drawn
merely from knowledge the buyer will use the goods
illegally. The Government did not contend, in those
circumstances, as the opinion points out, that there was a
conspiracy between the buyer and the seller alone. It
conceded that on the evidence neither the act of supplying itself nor the other proof was of such a character as
imported an agreement or concert of action between the
buyer and the seller amounting to conspiracy. This was
true, notwithstanding some of the respondents could
be taken to know their customers would use the purchased
goods in illegal distillation.
The scope of the concession must be measured in the
light of the evidence with reference to which it was made.
This related to both the volume of the sales and to casual
and unexplained meetings of some of the respondents with
others who were convicted as conspirators. The Court
found this evidence too vague andl uncertain to support a
finding the respondents knew of the distillers' conspiracy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

though not inadequate in some instances to sustain one
that the seller knew the buyer would use the goods for
illegal distilling. It must be taken also that the Government regarded the same evidence as insufficient to
show the seller conspired directly with the buyer, by selling
to him with knowledge of his intended illegal use.
Whether or not it was consistent in making this concession and in regarding the same evidence as sufficient
to show that the sellers knew of and joined the buyers'
distilling ring is not material. Nor need it be determined
whether the Government conceded too much. We do not
now undertake to say what the Court was not asked and
therefore declined to say in the Falcone case, namely, that
the evidence presented in that case was sufficient to sustain a finding of conspiracy between the seller and the
buyer intersese. For, regardless of that, the facts proved
in this case show much more than the evidence did there.
The commodities sold there were articles of free commerce, sugar, cans, etc. They were not restricted as to
sale by order form, registration, or other requirements.
When they left the seller's stock and passed to the purchaser's hands, they were not in themselves restricted
commodities, incapable of further legal use except by
compliance with rigid regulations, such as apply to morphine sulphate. The difference is like that between toy
pistols or hunting-rifles and machine guns. All articles
of commerce may be put to illegal ends. But all do not
have inherently the same susceptibility to harmful and
illegal use. Nor, by the same token, do all embody the
same capacity, from their very nature, for giving the seller
notice the buyer will use them unlawfully. Gangsters, not
hunters or small boys, comprise the normal private market
for machine guns. So drug addicts furnish the normal
outlet for morphine which gets outside the restricted
channels of legitimate trade.

DIRECT SALES CO. v. U. S.
703

Opinion of the Court.

This difference is important for two purposes. One is
for making certain that the seller knows the buyer's intended illegal use. The other is to show that by the sale
he intends to further, promote and co~perate in it. This
intent, when given effect by overt act, is the gist of conspiracy. While it is not identical with mere knowledge
that another purposes unlawful action, it is not unrelated
to such knowledge' Without the knowledge, the intent
cannot exist. UnitedStates v. Falcone,supra.7 Furthermore, to establish the intent, the evidence of knowledge must be clear, not equivocal. Ibid. This, because
charges of conspiracy are not to be made out by piling
inference upon inference, thus fashioning what, in that
case, was called a dragnet to draw in all substantive
crimes.
The difference between sugar, cans, and other articles
of normal trade, on the one hand, and narcotic drugs, machine guns and such restricted commodities, on the other,
arising from the latters' inherent capacity for harm and
from the very fact they are restricted, makes a difference
in the quantity of proof required to show knowledge that
the buyer will utilize the article unlawfully. Additional
facts, such as quantity sales, high-pressure sales methods,
abnormal increases in the size of the buyer's purchases,
etc., which would be wholly innocuous or not more than
ground for suspicion in relation to unrestricted goods, may
furnish conclusive evidence, in respect to restricted articles, that the seller knows the buyer has an illegal object
and enterprise. Knowledge, equivocal and uncertain as
to one, becomes sure as to the other. So far as knowl7 Although

this principle was there applied to aiding and abetting

a conspiracy among others, it has at least equal force in a situation
where the charge is conspiring with another to further his unlawful
conduct, without reference to any conspiracy between him and third
persons.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

edge is the foundation of intent, the latter thereby also
becomes the more secure.
The difference in the commodities has a further bearing
upon the existence and the proof of intent. There may
be circumstances in which the evidence of knowledge is
clear, yet the further step of finding the required intent
cannot be taken. Concededly, not every instance of sale
of restricted goods, harmful as are opiates, in which the
seller knows the buyer intends to use them unlawfully,
will support a charge of conspiracy.' But this is not to
say that a seller of harmful restricted goods has license to
sell in unlimited quantities, to stimulate such sales by all
the high-pressure methods, legal if not always appropriate,
in the sale of free commodities; and thereby bring about
subversion of the order forms, which otherwise would protect him, and violation of the Act's other restrictions.
Such 'a view would assume that the market for opiates
may be developed as any other market. But that is not
true. Mass advertising and bargain-counter discounts
are not appropriate to commodities so surrounded with
restrictions. They do not create new legal demand and
new classes of legitimate patrons, as they do for sugar, tobacco and other free commodities. Beyond narrow limits,
the normal legal market for opiates is not capable of being
extended by such methods. The primary effect is rather
to create black markets for dope and to increase illegal
demand and consumption.
8This may be true, for instance, of single or casual transactions, not

amounting to a course of business, regular, sustained and prolonged,
and involving nothing more on the seller's part than indifference to
the buyer's illegal purpose and passive acquiescence in his desire to
purchase, for whatever end. A considerable degree of carelessness
coupled with casual transactions is tolerable outside the boundary of
conspiracy. There may be also a fairly broad latitude of immunity
for a more continuous course of sales, made either with strong suspicion
of the buyer's wrongful use or with knowledge, but without stimulation or active incitement to purchase.

DIRECT SALES CO. v. U. S.
703

Opinion of the Court.

When the evidence discloses such a system, working in
prolonged cooperation with a physician's unlawful purpose to supply him with his stock in trade for his illicit
enterprise, there is no legal obstacle to finding that the
supplier not only knows and acquiesces, but joins both
mind and hand with him to make its accomplishment possible. The step from knowledge to intent and agreement
may be taken. There is more than suspicion, more than
knowledge, acquiescence, carelessness, indifference, lack
of concern. There is informed and interested co~peration,
stimulation, instigation. And there is also a "stake in the
venture" which, even if it may not be essential, is not
irrelevant to the question of conspiracy.9 Petitioner's
stake here was in making the profits which it knew could
come only from its encouragement of Tate's illicit operations. In such a posture the case does not fall doubtfully
outside either the shadowy border between lawful couperation and criminal association or the no less elusive line
which separates conspiracy from overlapping forms of
criminal couperation.
Unless, therefore, petitioner has been exempted arbitrarily by the statute's terms, the evidence clearly was
sufficient to sustain its conviction for conspiring with
Tate. Its position here comes down ultimately to the
view alluded to above that the statute has, in fact, thus
immunized its action. In effect this means the only restriction imposed upon it, apart from other provisions
not now material, such as those affecting registration, was
the requirement it should receive from purchasing physicians a signed order form for each sale. That done, in
its view, its full duty to the law was fulfilled, it acquired
a complete immunity, and what the physician had done
9 Cf. United States v. Falcone, 109 F. 2d 579, 581 (C. C. A.); and
compare Backun v. United States, 112 F. 2d 635, 637 (C. C. A.);
United States v. Harrison, 121 F. 2d 930, 933 (C. C. A.); United
States v. Pecoraro, 115 F. 2d 245, 246 (C. C. A.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

or might do with the drugs became of no further concern
to itself. Such a view would legalize an express written
agreement between a registered wholesaler and a physician for the former to supply him with all his requirements for drugs for both legal and illegal distribution,
conditioned only upon his using the required order forms.
The statute contains no such exemption in explicit terms.
Nor was one implied."0
This being true, it can make no difference the agreement
was a tacit understanding, created by a long course of
conduct and executed in the same way.11 Not the form
or manner in which the understanding is made, but the
fact of its existence and the further one of making it effective by overt conduct are the crucial matters. The
proof, by the very nature of the crime, must be circumstantial I and therefore inferential to an extent varying
with the conditions under which the crime may be committed. But this does not mean either that the evidence
may be equivocal or that petitioner is exempt from its
effects when it is not so, merely'because in the absence of
excesses such as were committed and in other circumstances the order form would have given it protection. It
follows the mere fact that none of petitioner's representatives ever met Dr. Tate face to face or held personal communion with him is immaterial. Conspiracies, in short,
can be committed by mail and by mail-order houses. This
is true, notwithstanding the overt acts consist solely of
sales, which but for their volume, frequency and prolonged
10 Cf.

Gebardt v. United States, 287 U. S. 112; see also 81 U. of Pa.

L. Rev. 474.
"IGlasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60, 80; United States v. Man-

ton, 107 F. 2d 834, 839 (C. C.A.); United States v. Harrison,121 F.
2d 930, 934 (C. C. A.); cf. Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers'
Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S. 600; Interstate Circuit v. United

States, 306 U. S.208.
12 Ibid

OWENS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
703

Opinion of the Court.

repetition, coupled with the seller's unlawful intent to
further the buyer's project, would be wholly lawful
transactions.
Accordingly, the judgment is
Affirmed.
OWENS, EXECUTRIX, v. UNION PACIFIC
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 580.

Argued April 7, 1943.-Decided June 14, 1943.

1. Upon the facts of this case under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, it can not be said that, as a matter of law, there was an assumption of risk by the decedent; his conduct amounted, at most, to
contributory negligence, which may reduce the damages but does
not bar recovery. P. 724.
2. It is unnecessary in this case to determine whether the 1939 amendment of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, abolishing the defense
of assumption of risk, applies where the accident occurred before,
but the suit is brought after, that enactment. P. 725.
129 F. 2d 1013, reversed.

317 U. S. 623, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the plaintiff in an action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Frank C. Hanley for petitioner.
Mr. L. R. Hamblen, with whom Mr. Roy F. Shields was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner is the widow of an employee of respondent.
In 1941 she brought this suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51-59. Her hus531559-44----49

