BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
Opinion of the Court.

BOONE v. LIGHTNER

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 698.

Argued May 3, 4, 1943.-Decided June 7, 1943.

Section 201 of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, providing for stays in court proceedings involving persons in military
service, addresses to the discretion of the court the question whether
"the ability of . .. the defendant to conduct his defense is not materially affected by reason of his military service." In the circumstances of this case, denial of a stay at the instance of a defendant
in military service was not an abuse of that discretion. Pp. 565, 572.
222 N. C. 205, 22 S. E. 426, affirmed.

CERTIORAI, 318 U. S. 750, to review the affirmance of a
judgment against a defendant who during the time of the
proceeding was in the military service.
Mr. Milton I. Baldinger,with whom Messrs. Stuart H.

Robeson, Roy L. Deal, J. G. Moser, I. Irwin Bolotin, and
Clifford M. Toohy were on the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. M. R. McCown for respondents.
-MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The federal question in this case is whether a stay of
proceedings against a defendant in military service has
been refused under circumstances which denied rights
given by the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940.
The controversy in which he was engaged is for state
courts to settle, and we deal with the facts only as they
relate to this federal question.
The petitioner Boone was summoned into a state court
in North Carolina in an action to require him to account
as trustee of a fund for his minor daughter, to remove him
as trustee, to surcharge his accounts for losses caused by

OCTOBER TERM, 1942..
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

illegal management, and to obtain personal judgment for
deficiency in the fund.
Boone's mother-in-law, by will of which he was executor
and trustee, created a trust fund for the education' of her
grandchildren, including one child of Boone's. Shortly
after her death, and in September, 1938, another child was
born to him. Since this child was unprovided for in the
will, the father-in-law made arrangements which upon
his death put into Boone's hands a fund of about $15,000.
It is conceded that the fund was a trust for the benefit of
the daughter. There was controversy whether it was governed, as Boone claimed, by a letter signed by the fatherin-law which placed no restriction on his discretion; or,
as Mrs. Boone, who has been sustained, by the courts of
North Carolina, claimed, by the same conditions as the
testamentary trust set up by her mother. For our pur.poses it is enough that it was admittedly a trust and that
grounds were alleged sufficient to move the state court to
require an accounting.
The summons and complaint were served on Boone
personally in North Carolina on June 23, 1941. He was
then in military service of the United States as a Captain
.stationed in the office of the Under Secretary of War in
Washington.
Boone filed a verified answer denying the jurisdiction
of the court, claiming that on June 23, 1941, the same
day the summons was served, he changed his "domicile
and legal residence" to Washington, D. C., and his daughter's as well. He admitted receipt of the fund in trust,
asserted the trust was governed by the letter referred tx
and pleaded that he "is not bound to report to any Court.'
He denied all charges of misconduct of the fund, denied
that there were grounds for apprehension that the funds
were unsafe, and asserted that "he has exercised at all
times good faith in caring for this fund." He also stated

BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
561

Opinion of the Court.

that "he has not dissipated one penny of the fund, nor
has he made any withdrawal from the fund since the day
the money was turned over to him." He pleaded at
length facts to support his claim that he was no longer
domiciled in North Carolina and to support his allegation
that the trust was "a voluntary trust not subject to the
jurisdiction of any court or restricted in afiy way by the
terms of any will."
On February 2, 1942, the cause came on for hearing,
Boone moved for a continuance to the 25th of May, 1942,
his counsel, Roy L. Deal, stating that he expected soon to
be called into service and would be unable to try the case,
and asking the continuance in order to give defendant
ample time to employ other counsel. The request was
granted, and that date peremptorily set for the trial.
The court forbade transfer of securities constituting the
trust and required that on the trial date they and any
funds of the trust be turned over to the Clerk of the
Court to abide further orders. Its order admonished that
the court would at the earliest practical date ascertain
the status of the trust fund and that the presence of
Boone himself at the trial "is highly desirable," but left
to the discretion of Boone and his counsel whether it was
necessary. In order, however, to advise defendant Boone
and his superior officers of the importance of the litigation, the court directed that a certified copy of the order
be sent to The Adjutant General of the United States
Army at Washington.
When the trial day came, Boone invoked the Soldiers'
and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, and demanded that
the trial be continued until after the termination of his
service in the Army or until "such time as he can properly
conduct his defense." At this time there were before
the trial court not only the pleadings and the affidavits
submitted by Boone and his counsel but also certain depo-

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

sitions which Boone had made and procured and which
had been returned to the court, and also Boone's own
statement of transactions which accompanied certain
securities and funds which he turned over to the Clerk of
the Court. Boone was not present, but counsel appeared
for him to move for a further continuance under the
Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act. This motion was
denied, counsel who had presented the motion withdrew
from the case, and the trial proceeded. The verdict of
the jury went against Boone; and judgment was entered
that the trust was governed by the terms of the will, that
Boone had been guilty of serious misconduct of the trust
fund, and that he be held personally liable for the consequent loss to the trust fund of more than $11,000, and
removed as trustee.
Boone then appealed to the Supreme Court of North
Carolina, on the merits as well as on denial of the continuance, and that court affirmed. 222 N. C. 205, 22
S. E. 2d 426. As the decision below presented an important question of construction of the Act, we granted
certiorari.
The section of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief
Act of 1940 principally invoked is § 201,1 which reads:
"At any stage thereof any action or proceeding in any
court in which a person in military service is involved,
either as plaintiff or defendant, during the period of such
service or within sixty days thereafter may, in the discretion of the court in which it is pending, on its own motion,
and shall, on application to it by such person or some person on his behalf, be stayed as provided in this Act, unless,
in the opinion of the court, the ability of plaintiff to prose.54 Stat. 1178, 1181, 50 U.S. C. App. § 521.
We express no opinion on the question whether Boone could have the
judgment opened upon proper application under § 200 (4), 50 U. S. C.
App. § 520 (4).

BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
561

Opinion of the Court.

cute the action or the defendant to conduct his defense
is not materially affected by reason of his military
service."
The positions urged by petitioner come to these: first,
that defendant's military service in Washington rendered
a continuance mandatory; second, if not mandatory, that
the burden of showing that he could attend or would not
be prejudiced by his absence was not on him, but on those
who would force the proceedings; third, that the'court did
not make the finding required by the Act for denial of a
stay; and last, that in any view of the law the trial judge
abused his discretion in this case. The petition raises other
questions, including the constitutional one as to whether
he has been denied due process of law, which we do not
discuss because in the light of the facts of the case they
are frivolous.
1. The Act cannot be construed to require continuance
on mere showing that the defendant was in Washington
in the military service. Canons of statutory construction
admonish us that we should not needlessly render as meaningless the language which, after authorizing stays, says
"unless, in the opinion of the court, the ability of plaintiff
to prosecute the action or the defendant to conduct his
defense is not materially affected by reason of his military
service."
The Act of 1940 was a substantial reenactment of that of
1918. The legislative history of its antecedent shows that
this clause was deliberately chosen and that judicial discretion thereby conferred on the trial court instead of rigid
and undiscriminating suspension of civil proceedings was
the very heart of the policy of the Act. 2 While this Court
2 As originally proposed, the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Bill,
S. 2859, 65th Cong., 1st Sess., provided in § 6 that:
"At any stage thereof any action or proceeding commenced in any
court against a person in military service may, in the discretion of the

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Footnote 2.-Continued.
court in which it is pending, on its own motion, and shall, on application to it by such person or some person on his behalf, be stayed as
provided in this act, unless, in the opinion of the court, the defendant
is not embarrassed by reason of his military service."
Accompanying "Notes as to the Provisions of the Bill" stated that a
"sweeping exemption" such as that provided by most States in Civil
War days, was "too broad, for there are many cases where the financial
ability of soldiers and sailors to meet obligations in some way is not
materially impaired by their entrance into service." Hearings and
Memoranda before Senate Judiciary Committee on S. 2859 and H. R.
6361, 65th Cong., 1st and 2d Seas., p. 27.
Major John H. Wigmore, one of the drafters of the bill, stated at
the Senate hearings, that "a universal stay against soldiers is wasteful,
because hundreds of them are men of affairs and men of assets, and
they have agents back here looking after their affairs. There is no
earthly reason why the court proceedings should stay against them.
It is the small man, or perhaps I should say the humble man, who has
just himself and no agent and no outside assets, that we do not want
to forget. He is the man we are thinking of. These other people can
take care of themselves, and the court would say to them, 'No; your
affair is a going concern; go ahead with the lawsuit. You have a lawyer,
you have an agent, you have a corporation manager, and other
things."' Id. at p. 97.
As reported by the House Judiciary Committee, H. R. 6361, 65th
Cong., 1st Sess., provided in § 201:
"That at any stage thereof any action or proceeding commenced in
any court against a person in military service during the period of such
service or within 60 days thereafter may, in the discretion of the court
in which it is pending, on its own motion, and shall, on application to
it by such person or some person on his behalf, be stayed as provided in
this act, unless, in the opinion of the court, the ability of the defendant
to comply with the judgment or order sought is not materially affected
by reason of his military service."
The House Report on this bill, No. 181, 65th Cong., 1st Sess., stated:
"Instead of a rigid suspension of all actions against a soldier, a
restriction upon suits is placed only where. a court is satisfied that the
absence of the defendant in military service has materially impaired his
ability to meet that particular obligation. Most of the actions sought
to be brought against soldiers will be for small amounts and will thus

BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
561

561

Opinion of thei Court.

Footnote 2.-Continued.
be in a local court where the judge, if he does not already know, will
be ina favorable position to learn whether or not the defendant who
seeks the benefit of the statute has really been prejudiced by his military service. Though not in military service, he may have property
from which the income continues to come in irrespective of his presence;
perhaps he may be some ne'er-do-well who only seeks to hide under
the brown of his khaki; . . ." (p. 2.)
. "The lesson of the stay laws of the Civil War teaches that an arbitrary and rigid protection against suits is as much a mistaken kindness to the. soldier as it is unnecessary. A total suspension for the
period of the war of all rights against a soldier defeats its own purpose.
In time of war credit is of even more importance than in time of peace,
and if there were a total prohibition upon enforcing obligations against
one in military service, the credit of a soldier and his family would be
utterly cut off. No one could be found who would extend them
credit:
"But in any case a rigid stay of all actions against the soldier is
too broad. There are many men now in the Army who can and should
pay their obligations in full.
"On the other band there are already tens of thousands of men in
military service who will be utterly ruined and their families made
destitute if creditors are allowed unrestrictedly to push their claims;
and yet these same soldiers, if given time and opportunity can, in most
cases, meet their obligations dollar for dollar. The country is asking
2,000,000 of its young men to risk their lives and, if need be, to give
up their lives for their country. Before long even more will be asked
to make the same sacrifice. Is it more than naked justice to give to
the savings of these same men such just measure of protection as is
possible?" (pp. 2-3.)
"Section 201 illustrates how the committee has avoided an arbitrary,
a rigid bill. The clause 'unless, in the opinion of the court, the ability
of the defendant to comply with the judgment or order sought, is not
materially affected by reason of his military servfce,' is'
the key to the
whole scheme of the bill. This mere fact of being in military service is
not enough; military service must be the reason for the defendant not
meeting his obligations." (p. 5.)
Congressman Webb, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
stated on the floor of the House, with reference to this bill, that:

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Footnote 2.-Continued.
'Heretofore during wars the various States have undertaken to pass
the private stay -laws for the benefit of the soldiers who are in the
service of their country. If you will read the various.laws of this kind
which the committee has set out in its -report, you will see what contrariety of such laws have been passed during, recent years and during
the various wars. The next material difference between this law and
the various State laws is this, and in this I think you will find the chief
excellence of the bill which we propose: Instead of the bill we are
now considering being arbitrary, inelastic, inflexible, the discretion as
to dealing out even-handed justice between the creditor and the soldier,
taking into consideration the fact that the soldier has been called to
his country's cause, rests largely, and in some cases entirely, in the
breast of the judge who tries the case.
'Manifestly, if this Congress should undertake to pass an arbitrary
stay law providing that no creditor should ever sue or bring proceedings
against any soldier while in the military service of his country, that
would upset business very largely in many parts of the country. In
the next place, it would be unfair to the creditor as well as to the soldier.
It would disturb the soldier's credit probably in many cases and would
deny the right of the creditor to his just debts from a person who was
amply able to pay and whose military service did not in the least impair
his ability to meet the obligation." 55 Cong. Rec. 7787.
On the floor of the Senate, § 201 was amended to substitute for "the
ability of the defendant to comply with the judgment or order," "the
ability of the defendant to conduct his defense," and to extend its protection to plaintiffs as well as to defendants. 56 Cong. Rec. 1696, 17531754. The amendments were agreed to in conference, with the managers stating with respect to the former amendment that "As the bill
passed the House relief was to be given the party in military service
unless his ability to comply with the judgment or order sought was not
materially affected by such service. The amendment agreed on makes
the test depend upon his ability to conduct his defense." 56 Cong.
Rec. 3023. As so amended, the Bill became § 201 of the 1918 Act,
40 Stat. 442, which was carried into § 201 of the 1940 Act without
amendment of the provision under consideration. While it is true
that the discussion set forth in the preceding paragraphs related to a
stay on a different basis than the one enacted, in so far as it deals with
the question whether a mandatory or a discretionary stay was intended
it is not made inapplicable or uninstructive by the amendment.

BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
561

Opinion of the Court.

had no occasion to speak on the subject, the Act was generally construed consistently with this policy."
Reenacted against this background without reconsideration of the question beyond a statement in the Senate
Committee Report that "There are adequate safeguards
incorporated in the bill to prevent any person from taking
undue advantage" of its provisions,' we are unable to ignore or sterilize the clause which plainly vests judicial discretion in the trial court.
2. The Act makes no express provision as to who must
carry the burden of showing that a party will or will not be
prejudiced, in pursuance no doubt of its policy of making the law flexible to meet the great variety of situations
no legislator and no court is wise enough to foresee. We,
too, refrain from declaring any rigid doctrine of burden of
proof in this matter, believing that courts called upon to
use discretion will usually have enough sound sense to
know from what direction their information should be expected to come. One case may turn on an issue of fact as
to which the party is an important witness, where it only
appears that he is in service at a remote place or at a place
unknown. The next may involve an accident caused by
one of his family using his car with his permission, which
he did not witness, and as to which he is fully covered by
insurance. Such a nominal defendant's absence in military service in Washington might be urged by the insurance
company, the real defendant, as ground for deferring trial
until after the war. To say that the mere fact of a party's
military service has the same significance on burden of per8Davies & Davies v. Patterson,137 Ark. 184, 208 S. W. 592; State
ez rel. Clark v. Klene, 201 Mo. App. 408, 212 S. W. 55; of. Swiderski
v. Moodenbaugh, 44 F. Supp. 687, 45 F. Supp. 790; Dietz v. Treupel,
184 App. Div. 448, 170 N. Y. S. 108; Gilluly v. Hawkins, 108 Wash.
79, 182 P. 958.
' Sen. Rept. No. 2109, 76th Cong., 3d Ses., p. 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

suasion in the two contexts would be to put into the Act
through a burden of proof theory the rigidity and lack of
discriminating application which Congress sought to remove by making stays discretionary. We think the ultimate discretion includes a discretion as to whom the court
may ask to come forward with facts needful to a fair
judgment.
In the present case, whoever might have had the burden
originally, the continuance was finally denied upon a record
which disclosed the facts so far as either party saw fit to
do so. The defendant and his counsel submitted affidavits
and the depositions and accounts before the court revealed
facts relevant to the issue.
Whether, if the court knew only the existence of this
complicated controversy and that the defendant was absent in military service, it could have cast upon the defendant the burden of showing that the litigation could
not go ahead without prejudice to him, is not before us.
The court made no such ruling. The defendant appeared,'
he pleaded his defense, he took depositions showing fully
what had happened to the fund, and he supplied his own
affidavit showing where he was and what he was doing.
Regardless of whether defendant was under a duty to make
a disclosure of his situation, once he undertook to do so,
the significance alike of what his affidavit said and of what
it omitted was to be judged by ordinary tests. One of
these is that "all evidence is to be weighed according to the
proof which it was in the power of one side to have produced and in the power of the other side to have contradicted." Cooper v. Dasher, 290 U. S. 106, 109. The trial
court and the Supreme Court of North Carolina did just
this. They did not deny his stay because he failed to meet
their ideas of burden; they weighed the evidence he offered
and found its conclusions discredited by its avoidance of
supporting facts within his knowledge and not within that

BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
561

571.

Opinion of the Court.

of his adversary. That is not a ruling on burden of proof.
Finding that the courts below have proceeded upon no
misapprehension of the law, we turn to their dealing with
the facts of the particular case.
3. Some question is raised as to whether the findings of
the trial court meet the requirements of the Act. In the
order denying the continuance it found as a fact that "the
defendant in this cause is deliberately and wilfully attempting to evade an ultimate determination of the issues
involved in the litigation entitled as above, and is exercising his assumed right under the Act referred to above to
avoid such determination." It also found the defendant
"isnot upon the motion for continuance acting in good
faith." In the final judgment the court found as a fact
"that the defendant has had ample time and opportunity
to properly prepare his defense in this case and that his
military service has not prevented him from doing this."
It found that "defendant had full opportunity to prepare
and put in his defense if he had one," and that "It is
apparent that he has only sought to use the provisions of
the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act as a shield for his
wrong doing, and this Court, who once wore a U. S. uniform with pride, does not intend for this to be done."
Of course this is not a finding in the words of the statute
that the ability of the defendant "to conduct his defense is
not materially affected by reason of his military service,"
but there is no doubt that it was intended to be in substance the equivalent. It was so treated by the Supreme
Court of North Carolina and to send the case back for
further findings seems unwarranted. The Act does not
expressly require findings. It is one intended to apply to
courts not of record as well as those of record, and it requires only that the court be of opinion that ability to
defend is not materially affected by military service. We
531559-44-----40

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

accept the findings as sufficiently evidencing the opinion of
the court to that effect.
4. The final question is whether the evidence sufficiently
supports the opinion or whether the order constitutes an
abuse of discretion.
We think the opinion of the court that Boone's military service did not prevent him from being present and
doing whatever could have been done by way of defense
finds ample support in the evidence. Boone had been
able to get away 'from Washington to go to New York
for the taking of depositions on two separate occasions.
He had long notice of the trial date and the court had
placed in the files of his Department its order showing
the desirability of his presence at that time.' Boone, being a lawyer and presumably knowing the gravity of the
accusations against him, might be expected to make some
move to get leave to be present. If it were denied, he
might be expected to expose every circumstance of his
effort to the court in his plea for continuance. Boone's
affidavit, after reciting that he was assigned to the International Division, Headquarters, Services of Supply,
Washington, D. C., says "The work in said Division is
very heavy, and full time and some extra time are required of all officers in said Division, including the defendant. Prior to the declaration of War on Dec. 8, 1941 the
work in this Division was very heavy, but since the declaration of War the volume of work has been greatly increased. No leaves whatever have been granted, except
in cases of serious emergency."
Most lawyers trained in the equity tradition of trustee fidelity would regard a trial of this kind as a serious
emergency. Did he apply for a leave at all? The affidavit pretty clearly implied that he had not. We think
the court had ample grounds for the opinion that Boone

BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
561

Opinion of the Court.

made-no effort to attend to duties that should weigh
heavily upon the honor of a lawyer-trustee.
There was likewise support for the opinion that the
failure to be represented by counsel did not result from
Boone's military service. On February 2, 1942, the court
granted his request for a continuance and set the case for
trial on May 25, 1942. It was stated to the court that
counsel then acting for him was expecting to be called
immediately into military service, and it would be necessary for defendant to procure additional counsel. Nevertheless, when the trial date arrived, the fact that this
counsel had gone into service on May 13, 1942, was urged
as a reason for further postponement. No showing whatever was made as to any effort to obtain other counsel in
the long interval allowed by the court for the purpose.
This counsel was also stationed at Washington and said
he "would not assume to ask for leave at the pregent time,
so soon after having reported for duty."
On the trial date defendant was nevertheless represented in court by local counsel. That counsel however
was consulted only three or four days before the trial date
and was employed for the sole purpose of making the
motion for continuance, and when the court ruled on it he
withdrew and declined to proceed further. The defendant's accounts presented to the trial judge showed disbursements since the beginning of the action and before
trial for the following matters, among others, in connection with this case:' On August 15, 1941, defendant's deposition was taken at Washington, D. C. This entailed a
reporter's fee of $66.00 and a fee of $248.88 paid a Detroit
attorney for appearing at the proceeding. On November
3 and 5, 1941, depositions were taken in New York City
with the defendant present. These involved a court reporter's fee of $32.25, and fees in the amount of $375.00

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

for the Detroit attorney and New York counsel obtained
to assist him. This item carried a notation that it did not
"include services rendered in the taking of depositions in
other cases on same date." From August 4, 1941, to January 26, 1942, Deal, the attorney who had represented
defendant before withdrawing to accept a commission in
Washington, received $218.00 for his services in representing defendant in the Case. Two days after judgment,
another lawyer from the firm of counsel who had withdrawn after making the motion of May 25 appeared and
moved to set the verdict aside and took an appeal, later
filing extensive assignments of error. Counsel who had
withdrawn from the trial argued the appeal in the Supreme Court of North Carolina.
At all times since the action began defendant has also
been represented by counsel from Detroit, Michigan. His
inability to appear on the trial date was explained on the
ground that he was "definitely engaged at the present time
in the trial of cases at Detroit which will require his presence in Court there for approximately thirty days." No
affidavit from this counsel was produced, and no explanation is. made as to how it came that other "cases" were
given priority over this in view of the long notice of the
trial date and its importance to the client.
In this Court, Boone is represented by his Detroit counsel and by Deal, the lawyer who withdrew from the case
to accept a commission in Washington. Besides these,
there also appear four other lawyers, none of whom are
included in the five who have represented him at previous
stages in the case.
In addition to the facts presented to the trial court
which we have recited, the trial court apparently considered matters not of record in this case, but of which
he took judicial notice. He recites that "the motion to
continue is made after the defendant's refusal in one or
more instances arising out of litigation respecting the

BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
561

Opinion of the Court.

subject matter and personnel involved in this action to
appear inthe Courts of North Carolina, even on citation
for contempt." We know nothing of these events and
disregard this ground of the court's action.
The court was dealing not only with an individual but
with a trustee, one charged with default in his duty, and
with a fund which was said to be in jeopardy. Defendant in spite of his military service in Washington was
continuing to administer the fund. The defendant was
a member of the bar, and the charges struck at his honor
as well as at his judgment. Instead of seeking the first
competent forum and the earliest possible day to lay
his accounts out for vindication, he sought to escape the
forum and postpone the day. He was both present and
represented by counsel when depositions were taken
which establish his speculation with the trust funds in
his personal margin account. We think the record amply supports the conclusion of the trial judge that the
claim that military service would prejudice the conduct
of his defense, was groundless, and that the absence of
himself and all of his numerous and not uncompensated
counsel on the day of judgment was dictated wholly by
litigious strategy.
The Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act is always to
be liberally construed to protect those who have been
obliged to drop their own affairs to take up the burdens
of the nation. The discretion that is vested in trial
courts to that end is not to be withheld on nice calculations as to whether prejudice may result from .absence, or
absence result from the service. Absence when one's
rights or liabilities are being adjudged is usually prima
facie prejudicial. But in some few cases absence may be
acretion
policy, instead of the result of military service, and disis vested in the courts to see that the immunities
of the Act are not put to such unworthy use.
Affirmed.

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting:
The petitioner is a soldier who was on duty in Washington throughout the course of the litigation in North Carolina of this action against him. He duly claimed the protection of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of
1940, and rests upon it here. I think he should prevail.
The relevant statutory provision before us may be summarized as follows: Actions brought against a person in
military service shall be stayed upon application of that
person "unless, in the opinion of the court, the ability of
• . . the defendant to conduct his defense is not materially
affected by reason of his military service."
The statutory language has no legislative history and
has not previously been interpreted by this Court. The
elaborate legislative history set forth by the Court is a history of a clause which was stricken from the 1917 Act,
which is not before us now, and which, on its face, has a
meaning wholly different from the clause under construction.' Hence the problem is a narrow one of analysis of
the words of the statute itself.
I believe that the clause under consideration requires
that an action against a person in military service must be
2The clause for which the Court gives the legislative history is as
follows: An action against a person in military service shall be stayed,
upon request, "unless, in the opinion of the court, the ability of the
defendant to comply with the judgment or order sought is not materially affected by reason of his military service." This means, in rough
substance, what its legislative history says, that the action was to be"
stayed except where the defendant could readily pay a judgment against
himself. But that language was removed and the present provision inserted: the action upon proper request shall be stayed unless in the
opinion of the trial judge, "the ability of the defendant to conduct his
defense" is affected by military service. The difference between ability
to pay a judgment and ability to conduct a defense is so great that
the two clauses have substantially nothing in connon. The ability to
pay clause has been left in some sections of the Act, as, e. g., §§ 203, 206,
but it is not before us here.

BOONE v. LIGHTNER.
561

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

stayed unless the trial judge concludes (a) that no personal judgment will result and that the action will in effect
preserve the interests of all the parties for the duration of
the war; or (b) that the defendant is only a formal party;
or (c) that the defendant need not be present for any purpose, either before, during, or after the trial, and that he
will be adequately represented and has no need to testify
or participate in any way; or (d) that the defendant's
military service does not preclude him from having ample
opportunity to get ready for, and to take his necessary part
in, the litigation.
In my opinion, none of these conditions are met here.
Although the action began as a proceeding to preserve the
trust estate, which was quite proper, it terminated with
a personal judgment against the' petitioner for $11,000
after a trial by jury of many disputed facts. The petitioner was obviously not merely a formal party. One
issue in the case was whether he had dissipated trust
funds, and for such an inquiry his presence to hear the
evidence against him was essential to his interests and
his own testimony was, in the words of the trial court,
"highly desirable."
The sole possible ground for the Court's action, therefore, is that the defendant could have been present and,
wilfully taking advantage of the Act, chose instead to
absent himself. In reaching this result the.Court engages
in precisely the speculation which I think the Act prohibits. The Court does not know, and the state court did
not try to find out, whether Boone applied for a leave
or disclosed its urgency to his superiors; it concludes that
he did neither. The Court does not know whether Boone
attempted to find new counsel; it assumes that he did not.
The Court does not know why Boone chose to participate
in certain other law suits against him conducted simultaneously with this one; it assumes that the others were
less important than this case. The Court can not know

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

whether the petitioner truly owes the amount of the
judgment against him; it must assume that he does because
of a proceeding conducted against him in his absence.'
The Court emphasizes that Boone is a member of the
bar. But, for the duration of the war, he is primarily
a soldier, with a job to do which Congress intended should
overshadow personal interests, whether his or those of
others who seek a personal judgment against him. It is
difficult for me to believe that he could adequately have
prepared for this trial without a leave of many weeks.
The purpose of the Act is to prevent soldiers and sailors
from being harassed by civil litigation "in order to enable
such persons to devote their entire energy to the defense
needs of the Nation." § 100. He is required to devote
himself to serious business, and should not be asked either
to attempt to convince his superior officers of the importance of his private affairs or to spend his time hunting for lawyers.
The trial court should, at the very least, have inquired
of the appropriate military authorities whether the petitioner could be granted ample leave to prepare his defense
and be present for trial. If the Act does not require
this, it serves little purpose. It may be argued that this
petitioner, a man of knowledge and experience, is as competent to ask his superior officer for leave as is the trial
court; but the argument fails because the policy set here,
no matter how many qualifications the Court tries to work
into it, will shoot far beyond the confines of this case. In
the course of the war, numerous actions will be brought
against soldiers who have never heard of this Act and have
no notion that: this Court might want them to apply to
2Had this been a judgment by default, Boone might have it set aside
upon proper motion made at any time within "ninety days after the
termination" ofhis military service. § 200 (4). Whether that section
will permit Boone to attack this judgment after the war is a question
which the Court expressly reserves.

BUSEY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
561

579

Syllabus.

their superior officers for leave and to make and file a
formal record of their superior officers' refusal.
. I fear that today's decision seriously limits the benefits
Congress intended to provide in the Soldiers' and Sailors'
Civil Relief Act. It apparently gives the Act a liberal
construction for the benefit of creditors rather than for
the benefit of soldiers. It places in trial judges an enormous discretion to determine from a distance whether a
person in military service has exercised proper diligence
to secure a leave, or whether it is best for the national
defense that he make no application at all. These are
questions on which the judiciary has no competence,
since only the military authorities can know the answers.
BUSEY r AL. v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 235. Argued June 1, 1943.-Decided June 14, 1943.
In view of Jones v. Opelika, 319 U. S.103, and Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105, the judgment in this case is vacated and the
cause is remanded in order that the court below may reexamine the
questions whether § 47-2336 of the District of Columbia Code
(1940), which forbids unlicensed sales upon the public streets, or
from public space, should be construed as applicable to the facts of
this case, and whether, if applicable, it is constitutional. P. 580.
75 U. S. App. D. C. 352, vacated.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 735, to review the affirmance (129 F.
2d 24) of a judgment of the Police Court of the District
of Columbia.
Mr. Hayden C. Covington for petitioners.
Mr. Vernon E. West, with whom Mr. Richmond 'B.
Keech was on the brief, for respondent.

