VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.

533

Opinion of the Court.

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC & POWER CO. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 709. Argued May 6, 1943.-Decided June 7, 1943.
1. In requiring the disestablishment of a company union, the National Labor Relations Board was authorized, by § 10 (c) of the
National Labor Relations Act, upon the facts it found in this
case, supported by evidence, to order that the employer reimburse
its employees in full for amounts which had been deducted from
their wages and paid to that union as dues. P. 539.
2. The Board's determination that reimbursement in full of the
checked-off dues is necessary to "effectuate the policies of the Act"
should stand, in the absence of any showing that the order was a
patent attempt to achieve ends other than can fairly be said to
effectuate the policies of the Act. P. 540.
3. The order is not to be regarded as adjudicating a right to damages or as imposing a penalty. P. 543.
132 F. 2d 390, affirmed.
CERTimoARi, 318 U. S. .752, to review an order, of the
National Labor Relations Board. The -ee was here
before and was remanded for aredetermination, 314 U. S.
469.

Messrs. George D. Gibson and T. Justin Moore for
petitioner.
Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Ernest A. Gross, and
Owsley Vose and Miss Ruth Weyand were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.

After the remand of this case in 314 U. S. 469, the Board
reconsidered it upon the original record, made new findings of fact, and concluded that the Company had violated

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

§ 8 (1), (2) and (3) of the Act. 29 U. S. C. § 158. A new
order was entered requiring the Company to cease and
desist from the unfair labor practices found and from
giving effect to its contract with the Independent Organization of Employees. The order also directed the Company to withdraw recognition from and disestablish the
I. 0. E. as a representative of its employees, to reinstate
with back pay two of three employees found to have been
discriminatorily discharged, to reimburse its employees in
the amount of dues and assessments deducted from their
wages by the Company and paid to the I. 0. E., and to post
appropriate notices. 44 N. L. R. B. 404. The court below, one judge dissenting in part, upheld the order in full.
132 F. 2d 390. The I. 0. E. then apparently decided to
dissolve, and the Company withdrew recognition from and
disestablished it. Because of an apparent conflict of decisions, we granted the Company's petition for certiorari
which challenged only the authority of the Board to require reimbursement of the checked-off dues, a point not
reached when the case was here before.1
The new findings are much more elaborate than those
originally before us in 314 U. S. 469, and it would serve no
In eleven cases five circuits, under varying circumstances and on
diverse reasoning, have refused to enforce Board orders requiring reimbursement of checked-off dues. See Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Labor Board, 113 F. 2d 992 (C. C. A. 2); Corning Glass Works v.
Labor Board, 118 F. 2d 625 (C. C. A. 2); Labor Board v. West Kentucky Coal Co., 116 F. 2d 816 (C. C. A. 6); Labor Board v. U. S. Truck
Co., 124 F. 2d 887 (C. C. A. 6); Labor Board v. Gerity Whitaker Co.,
137 F. 2d 198 (C. C. A. 6); Labor Board v. J. Greenebaurn Tanning
Co., 110 F. 2d 984 (C. C. A. 7); A. E. Staley Mfg. Co. v. Labor Board,
117 F. 2d 868 (C. C. A. 7); Reliance Mfg. Co. v. Labor Board, 125 F.
2d 311 (C. C. A. 7); Kansas City Power & Light Co. v. Labor Board,
IIl F. 2d 340 (C. C. A. 8); Labor Board v. Southwestern Greyhound
Lines, 126 F. 2d 883 (C. C. A. 8); Labor Board v. ContinentalOil Co.,
121 F. 2d 120 (C. C. A. 10).

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.
533

535

Opinion of the Court.

useful purpose to discuss them minutely. The following
outline is sufficient for an understanding of the issues
raised: The findings sketch in considerable detail the antiunion background of the Company and the activities of
Bishop, the superintendent of the Company's Norfolk
-transportation department, including his suggestions to
employees Ruett and Elliott that they form unaffiliated
organizations. The growth of the I. 0. E. is traced from
the speeches and meetings of May 24, 1937, which were
held after requests for collective bargaining were received
by the Company from several small groups of employees
as a result of the bulletin of April 26, and which were attended by representatives selected by the employees at the
suggestion of the Company. The tracing continues with a
discussion of the reactions of those representatives after
the Company officials left the meetings and their subsequent reports delivered to the employees on Company
property and in some instances on Company time with the
help of supervisory employees. Emphasis is placed upon
the frequent meetings on Company property held by the
resultant Norfolk and Richmond steering committees during the first part of June. The Constitution and by-laws
of the I. 0. E. were adopted on June 15. The membership
campaign began June 17, and within two weeks the I. 0. E.
had a majority of the Company's 3,000 widely scattered employees. The Board contrasted this with its findings that
during the critical formative period of the I. 0. E.the Company discharged one Mann, an outspoken foe of an "inside"
union, that Edwards, a supervisor, kept C. I. 0. meetings
under surveillance and warned some employees against
"messing with the C. I. 0.," and that the Company denied
the use of its premises to representatives of national labor
organizations, and then drew the conclusion that the quick
success of the I. 0. E. membership campaign "must be attributed in large part to the respondent's [Company's]

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S.

sponsorship of and assistance to the I. 0. E. and its persistent and well-known opposition to national unions."
Continuing, the findings relate that the representatives
of the I. 0. E. in convention on July 17 and 18, drew up
a proposed contract, embodying demands for a closedshop, check-off of I. 0. E.dues and substantial wage in-.
creases, which was sent to the Company with a request
for a bargaining conference. The conference began on
July 30, and the Company quickly gave recognition and
offered no objection to the check-off provision, with the
addition of a proviso that the employees might revoke their
authorizations at any time. The by-laws of the I. 0. E.,
however, required all members to authorize the deduction
of dues, and the membership applications contained such
authorizations. The closed-shop provision was discussed
for two hours and then postponed for other matters until
the following day, when it was again taken up for two
hours and then agreed to with the addition, at the instance of the Company, of a provision that nothing in the
contract should prevent employees from joining or remaining members of any other labor organization. Wage
increases, costing the Company $600,000 annually, were
granted, and, as President Holtzclaw had promised at the
May 24 meeting in Richmond, they were made retroactive
to June 1. The contract was formally executed August 5,
and on August 20 the Company paid $3,784.50 to the
I. 0. E. as dues under the check-off provision, although it
had not yet deducted that entire amount from the wages
of its employees. The Board considered "the promptness
with which the respondent [Company] agreed to grant
the I. 0. E. a check-off of dues and a closed shop . . .
after a comparatively few hours discussion," and then
found that the Company "agreed to the closedshop and
the check-off of I. 0. E. dues in order to entrench the
I. 0. E. anong-the employees and to insure its financial
stability."

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.
533

53?

Opinion of the Court.

On the basis of these findings the Board concluded that;
"the respondent has engaged in a course of conduct calculated to restrain and discourage its employees from selforganization in nationally affiliated unions and to divert
and canalize their organizational efforts to the establishment of a company-wide unaffiliated labor organization.;
that in its totality, the respondent's conduct has been
coercive of its employees in the exercise of their right to
self-organization, with the result that when they formed
the I. 0. E. they were not as free as the statute requires;
that the I. 0. E. is the fruit of the respondent's illegal
interference with, and restraint and coercion of its employees; and that the respondent has dominated the formation and administration of the I. 0. E., and has contributed financial and other support to it."
and again that:
"the I. 0. E. was not the result of the employees' free
choice; that it was initiated in response to the urgings of
the respondent at the May 24 meetings to set up their
4own' organization; that the respondent's support of the
organization during the critical formative period and its
consistent opposition to nationally affiliated organizations are largely responsible for the adherence of the employees to the organization; and that the contract with
the I. 0. E. granting a -closed shop and the check-off of
the I. 0. E. dues marked the climax of the respondent's
efforts to erect an unaffiliated organization as a bulwark
against nationally affiliated organizations. ' We find that
the respondent has dominated and interfered with the
formation and administration of the I. 0. E. and has contributed support to it, . ...
In discussing the appropriate remedy for the unfair
labor practices found, the Board stated that the Company's domination and interference in the formation and
administration of the I. 0. E. constituted "a continuing
obstacle to the exercise by the employees of the rights
guaranteed them by the Act" and therefore the disestablishment of the I. 0. E. was necessary. In addition the
Board was of opinion that "under the circumstances of

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

this case" the Company should be ordered to reimburse
its employees for the amounts checked-off their wages
and paid to the I. 0. E.
The Company no longer attacks the conclusion that the

I. 0. E. was dominated by it, but it does contest the validity of the findings relating to domination in so far as
may be pertinent to the reimbursement order, and it challenges the power of the Board to make that order under
the circumstances of the case.
Under the applicable principles governing the scope of
our review of Board orders, we think the Board's findings
and conclusions regarding the Company's domination of
and interference with the I. 0. E. are supported by sub2

The Board's full statement on this point follows:
"The respondent concluded a closed-shop contract with the I. 0. E., a
company-dominated organization, thus compelling its employees to
become and remain :members of the illegal organization. Employees
were in fact discharged because they refused to join the I. 0. E. The
check-off provision, a device by which the respondent assured the
financial stability of the company-dominated organization, could no
more be avoided by the employees than could the compulsory membership requirement. The bylaws of the I. 0. E. required its members to execute check-off authorizations under penalty of being dropped
from membership in the I. 0. E., and thereby, under the closed-shop
provision, from their jobs. We find that the monies thus deducted from
the wages of the employees constituted the price of retaining their
jobs, a price coerced from them for respondent's purpose of supporting
and maintaining the organization which respondent bad dominated in
order- to thwart bona fide representation. We further find that, as a
result of the imposition of the illegal closed-shop and check-off requirements, the employees suffered a definite loss and deprivation of wages
equal to the amounts deducted from their wages and paid over to the
I. 0. E. It is appropriate that the employees be made whole by reimbursement of amounts exacted from them for illegal purposes. We
find that in these circumstances, the effects of the unfair labor practices
may be fully remedied and the purposes and policies of the Act may
be completely effectuated only by restoring the status quo. Hence, we
shall order the respondent to reimburse its employees for the amounts
deducted from their wages for dues and assessments in the I. 0. E."

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.

539

Opinion of the Court.

533

stantial evidence, and therefore conclusive. See Labor
Board v. Link-Belt Co., 311 U. S.584; I. A. of M. v. Labor
Board, 311 U. S.72; Labor Board v. Automotive Maintenance Machinery Co., 315 U. S. 282; Labor Board v. Nevada Copper Co., 316 U. S.105; Labor Board v. Southern
Bell Tel. Co., ante, p. 50. These findings and conclusions are not subject to the infirmities of the original
ones which prompted our decision in 314 U. S. 469.
While the bulletin of April 26 and the speeches of May
24 are still stressed, they are considered not in isolation
but as part of a pattern of events adding up to the
conclusion of domination and interference. We are
also of opinion that the Board had power to enter the
check-off reimbursement order in the circumstances of this
case.
Section 10 (c) of the Act 3 authorizes the Board to require persons found engaged or engaging in unfair labor
practices "to take such affirmative action, including reinstatement of employees with or without back pay, as will
effectuate the policies of this Act." The declared policy
of the Act in § 1 is to prevent, by encouraging and protecting collective bargaining and full freedom of association
for workers, the costly dislocation and interruption of the
flow of commerce caused by unnecessary industrial strife
and unrest. See Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301
U. S. 1. Within this limit the Board has wide discretion
in ordering affirmative action; its power is not limited to
the illustrative example of one type of permissible affirmative order, namely, reinstatement with or without back
pay. Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177,
187-89. The particular means by which the effects of
unfair labor practices are to be expunged are matters "for
the Board not the courts to determine." I. A. of M. v.
LaborBoard,supra,at p. 82;.Labor Board v. Link-Belt Co.,
349

Stat. 449; 29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.
531559--44----38

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

supra, at p. 600. Here the Board, in the exercise of its
informed discretion, has expressly determined that reimbursement in full of the checked-off dues is necessary to
effectuate the policies of the Act. We give cofnsiderable
weight to that administrative determination. It should
stand unless it can be shown that the order is a patent
attempt to achieve ends other than those which can fairly
be said to effectuate the policies of the Act. There is no
such showing here.
The Board found that the Company was responsible
for the creation of the I. 0. E. by providing its initial
impetus and direction and by contributing support during
its critical formative period. It further found that the
Company quickly agreed to give its creature closed-shop
and check-off privileges "in order to entrench the I. 0. E.
among the employees and to insure its financial stability." The result was that the employees, under the I. 0. E.
by-laws, had to authorize wage deductions for dues to
remain members of the I. 0. E., and they had to remain
members to retain their jobs.' Thus, as a price of employment they were required by the Company to support an
illegal organization which foreclosed their rights to freedom of organization and collective bargaining. To hold
that the Board is without power here to order reimbursement of the amounts so exacted is to hold that an employer is free to fasten firmly upon his employees the cost
of maintaining an organization by which he effectively
defeats the free exercise of their rights to self-organization
and collective bargaining. That this may pervert the.
purpose of the Act is clear. It is equally clear that the
undoing of the effects of such a practice may, in the judgment of the Board, remove a very real barrier to the effec4The proviso in the check-off agreement that employees might
revoke their individual authorizations at any time was admittedly
meaningless in view of the closed shop agreement and the requirement
in the I. 0. E. by-laws that its members authorize the check-off.

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.
533

541

Opinion of the Court.

tuation of the policies of the Act, the protection of commerce through the elimination of industrial conflict by
guaranteeing full freedom of association and genuine collective bargaining to employees. An order such as this,
which deprives an employer of advantages accruing from
a particular method of subverting the Act, is a permissible method of effectuating the statutory policy..
It is argued that disestablishment of the I. 0. E. sufficiently effectuates the policies of the Act by restoring to
the employees of the Company their freedom of association. But the Board need not be satisfied with the remedy alone. It has here determined that, to effectuate
fully the policies of the Act, it is necessary to expunge
the effects of the unfair labor practices by ordering the
reimbursement of checked-off dues. Such a determination seems manifestly reasonable. It returns to the employees what has been taken from them to support an
organization not of their free choice and places the burden
upon the Company whose unfair labor practices brought
about the situation. The deduction of dues from wages
under the circumstances of this case is not unlike a loss
occasioned by a discriminatory discharge, and an order for
the return of those checked-off dues promotes the policies
of the Act in substantially the same manner as would a
back pay award. By returning their money to the employees, the order severs possible economic ties which they
may have with the employer-dominated I. 0. E. and to
this extent aids in completely disestablishing that organization and restoring to the employees that truly unfettered freedom of choice which the Act demands. If employees have some assurance that an employer may not
with impunity impose upon them the cost of maintaining
an organization which he has dominated, any more than
he can make them bear the burden of a discriminatory
discharge, they may be more confident in the exercise of
their statutory rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

The Company contends that the Board did not find that
it continued to interfere with the I. 0. E. after its organization, except with regard to the closed-shop and checkoff clauses of the contract, and this finding is attacked as
without foundation in evidence. It is said that the demand for a closed-shop and check-off originated with the
employees who were free to abandon those provisions
at any time by changing their by-laws or the contract,
and that therefore the continuation of those requirements
was the voluntary action of the employees for which the
Company is not responsible. Finally it is urged that the
Company should not be compelled to reimburse these voluntary payments because the employees received benefits,
including substantial wage increases, from the I. 0. E.
The short answer is that the Board has resolved all
these contentions against the Company, and we cannot
say it exceeded its competence in so doing. It made no
finding of specific management interference in the I. 0. E.
after the execution of the contract, but it did conclude
that the I. 0. E.'s existence was a "continuing obstacle"
to the employees' exercise of their statutory rights. This
conclusion of continuation of the effects of an employerdominated beginning is a permissible one for the Board
to draw. Cf. Labor Board v. Southern Bell Tel. Co.,
ante, p. 50. It disposes of the argument that the men
were free at any time to eliminate the check-off; because
of the I. 0. E.'s origin the Board could conclude, as it
did, that they were not as free as the statute requires.
Also, in view of the Company's interference in and support given to the I. 0. E. and the celerity of agreement
in the bargaining conference, the Board could infer, despite the fact that demands for the closed-shop and the
check-off originated with the I. 0. E., that the Company
seized upon those provisions to establish the I. 0. E.
firmly. The fact that a contrary inference is possible
from the evidence does not allow us to set aside the one

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.
533

543

Opinion of the Court.

drawn by the Board. Labor Board v. Nevada Copper
Co., 316 U. S. 105. This dissipates the force of the argument that the closed-shop and check-off provisions were
forced upon the Company against its will.
The instant reimbursement order is not a redress for
a private wrong. Like a back pay order, it does restore
to the employees in some measure what was taken from
them because of the Company's unfair labor practices.
In this, both these types of monetary awards somewhat
resemble compensation for private injury, but it must
be constantly remembered that both are remedies created
by statute--the one explicitly and the other implicitly
in the concept of effectuation of the policies of the Act-which are designed to aid in achieving the elimination of
industrial conflict. They vindicate public, not private,
rights. Cf. Agwilines, Inc. v. Labor Board, 87 F. 2d 146,
150-51; Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S.
177. For this reason it is erroneous to characterize this
reimbursement order as penal or as the adjudication of
a mass tort. It is equally wrong to fetter the Board's
discretion by compelling it to observe conventional common law or chancery principles in fashioning such an
order, or to force it to inquire into the amount of damages
actually sustained. Whether and to what extent such
matters should be considered is a complex problem for
the Board to decide in the light of its administrative experience and knowledge. The Board has here determined that the employees suffered a definite loss in the
amount of the dues deducted from their wages and that
the effectuation of the policies of the Act requires reimbursement of those dues in full. We cannot say this
considered judgment does not effectuate the statutory
purpose.
The argument that the employees received some value
from their contributions via the check-off to the companydominated I. 0. E., is based upon the assumption that

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

such an organization necessarily gives some quid pro
quo. But in view of the purposes of the Act, a contrary
assumption, that employees receive no benefit from a type
of organization which Congress has characterized as detrimental to the interests of employees and provocative of
industrial unrest, is possible. These are considerations
for the Board to decide according to its reasoned judgment. We hold that the Board here made an allowable
judgment. That judgment cannot be upset by pointing
to substantial wage increases which the I. 0. E. was
granted. As the court below said, "it is manifestly impossible to say that greater benefits might not have been
secured if the freedom of choice of a bargaining agent
had not been interfered with." 132 F. 2d at 398. Cf.
Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S.
548, 559.
This reimbursement order cannot be labelled "penal."
The purpose of the order is not to penalize the Company
by requiring repayment of sums it did not retain in its
treasury. Those sums did go into the treasury of the Company's creature to accomplish purposes the Company evidently believed to be to its advantage, and the order of
reimbursement is intended to remove the effects of this
unfair labor practice by restoring to the employees what
would not have been taken from them if the Company had
not contravened the Act. This is not a case in which the
Board has ordered the payment of sums'to third parties, or
,has made employees more than whole. Cf. Republic Steel
Corp.v. LaborBoard,311 U. S. 7. The fact that the Board
may only have approximated its efforts to make the employees whole, because of asserted benefits of dubious and
unascertainable nature flowing from the I. 0. E., does not
convert this reimbursement order into the imposition of a
penalty. Cf. OvernightMotor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572,
583-84.

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.
533

545

FwNFumnZ, J., concurring.

We need not now examine the various situations that
were before the Circuit Courts of Appeals in the cases collected in Note 1, ante, or consider hypothetical possibilities. We decide only the case before us and sustain the
power of the Board to order reimbursement in full under
the circumstances here disclosed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTicE FRANKFURTER, concurring:

If the controlling facts in this case were like those in
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Labor Board, 113 F. 2d 992, I
too would accept the reasoning of Judge Learned Hand's
opinion in that case and join my brother ROBERTs. But
the vital difference between the Western Union and this
case is that, in the former, "there was no evidence that all
those [employees] who asked to have their wages stopped,
did so in any part because they were coerced." Id., at 997.
Here the employees had no such choice; they could avoid
the check-off of union dues only by giving up their jobs.
We start with the Board's finding-a finding not here
for review-that through its domination of the I. 0. E.
the Company indulged in an unfair labor practice. But
not only did it foster that company union, it foisted membership in the union upon all its employees. The Board
had a right to find that membership in the union, which
the employees had no power to reject, equally denied the
employees the power to reject the costs of that membership. It was therefore justified in concluding that the employees should be made whole for that which was the consequence of the Company's compulsion upon them.
Therein this case differs not only from the Western Union
case but also from the decisions in four other circuits upon
which my brother ROBERTS relies: Labor Board v. West
Kentucky Coal Co., 116 F. 2d 816, 823 (C. C. A. 6); Reliance Mfg. Co. v. Labor Board, 125 F. 2d 311 (C. C. A. 7);

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
RoS =rs, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

Labor Board v. Southwestern Greyhound Lines, 126 F. 2d
883, 887 (C. C. A. 8) ; LaborBoard v. Continental Oil Co.,
121 F. 2d 120, 125 (C. C. A. 10).
Needless to say, we have nothing to do with the wisdom
of the Board's requirement that the coerced dues be restored to the employees. Our decision can go no further
than that, within the framework of the general authority
given to it by Congress, the Board is empowered to find
that when men pay dues to a company-dominated union,
upon pain of forfeiting their jobs, it is the company which
has in fact commanded the payment of the dues and it is
the company which must make restoration.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

The single question presented is whether the National
Labor Relations Board, in ordering disestablishment of an
unaffiliated union, may, in the circumstances disclosed,
order reimbursement of dues paid by the employes to the
union pursuant to individual assignments by employes
and a union agreement for a closed shop and a check-off
of dues.
The court below (one judge dissenting) has sustained
this feature of the order. I am of opinion that its judgment should be reversed.
The only provision of the Act on which the Board
relies is that found in § 10 (c) 1 which is that the Board
may require the employer "to cease and desist from such
unfair labor practice, and to take such affirmative action,
including reinstatement of employees with or without
back pay, as will effectuate the policies of this Act." The
critical phrase is "to take such affirmative action . . .
as will effectuate the policies of this Act." The policies
of the Act are stated in § 1 2 as the encouragement of the
29 U. S. C. § 160 (c).
2 29 U. S. C. § 151.

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.
533

RoBmTs,

547

J., dissenting.

practice and procedure of collective bargaining and the
protection of the exercise by workers of full freedom of
association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating the terms and conditions of their employment or
other mutual aid or protection.' It is plain that a reimbursement order may be made by the Board only if it will
effectuate these policies.
The court below has interpreted this grant of power
to the Board as permitting what the court characterizes
as a restoration of the status quo. The Act, however,
contains no such expression and if it is given, as I think
it has been in the present instance, the meaning of redress of private wrongs, it misrepresents the clear intent
of the statute.4
The Act gives the Board no power to impose liability
for any supposed injury arising out of the compulsion of
employes to contribute dues to the union. Nor can the
order of restitution be grounded upon any theory that, although the unfair labor practice constitutes a public rather
than a private wrong, the power granted to effectuate the
policies of the Act envisages imposition of a penalty for
wrongful conduct on the part of the employer.'
There remains the question whether the order under
review can be justified as appropriate to effectuate the
policies of the Act. This question should be answered in
the light of the facts disclosed by the record. The Board
has found that the employer was guilty of unfair labor
practices in influencing employes in favor of a company
8

See Republic Sted Corp. v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 7, 10; Labor
Board v. Fansteel Corp., 306 U. S. 240,257.
'H. R. 972, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 21; H. R. 1147, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 24. National Licorxce Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350,
362, 363.
5 ConsolidatedEdison Co. v. Labor Board, 305 U. S. 197, 236; Republic Steel Corp.v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 7, 11, 12.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

319 U.S.

union. The order requires the company to cease and desist from the practices, to cease giving effect to the existing agreement with the union, and to withdraw recognition from and disestablish that organization as a bargaining unit. This order is supported by findings that, at a
time when no union existed, the company threw its influence in favor of an unaffiliated or company union. All
the facts found in this connection relate to a time anterior
to the organization of the union. There is no finding, and
no facts which would justify a finding, that subsequent
to the organization of the union the employer interfered
with it, dominated it, or supported it in any manner. The
union then organized made demands upon the company
which were the subject of negotiations and out of those
negotiations grew an increase of wages totaling about
$600,000 per annum and a collective bargaining agreement which contained provisions for a closed shop and
for the check-off of union dues, both of which features
were demanded and insisted upon by the union. There
is no finding and no evidence that the employer in fact
inspired, instigated, or coerced the employes to make
these demands or had, even remotely, anything to do with
them other than they followed its earlier encouragement
of the organization of the union. From the day that contract was signed, no act of interference or domination,
and no word even of suggestion from the company as
to the union policy or practices is shown. The record
demonstrates that the employer insisted that the checkoff of union dues should be authorized by each employe
individually, subject to his untrammeled right of revocation, and that the closed-shop provision should not prevent any member of the company union from also joining
any other union of his choice. The fixation of the union
dues was a matter within the control of the union members and continuahce of check-off as respects any employe
was a matter for his voluntary determination so far as the

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC CO. v. BOARD.
533-

549

Romas, J., dissenting.

employer was concerned. While it is not denied that the
union procured substantial benefits for its members or
that it represented them faithfully and fairly, nevertheless,
because of the company's interference at the time of the
organization of the union, that organization has been disestablished and indeed has now been dissolved.
It is to be noted that had it not been for the defect which
tainted its capacity to represent the employes, its other
activities would have been wholly in accordance with the
objects and purposes of the National Labor Relations Act.
Nothing in that Act invalidates a collective bargaining
agreement providing for a closed shop or for a check-off of
dues. If in fact those features of the agreement were the
voluntary act of the employes, as on this record they must
be found to have been, it is difficult to see how the policies
of the Act are to be effectuated by repayment to the employes of the dues heretofore paid when such repayment
can in no wise benefit the association which has been
disestablished.
The company union having been disestablished, the
employes are free to form or join any union and make it
their bargaining agent. Any possible effect of company
influence has been dissipated. The only possible effect of
restitution of dues to employes who have not asked for
repayment, who have received substantial benefits from
their contribution of dues, is to punish the employer and
perchance operate as a warning to other employers that
they will similarly be punished for unfair labor practices.
The Board seeks to sustain the order on the ground that
the Act authorizes, as one form of affirmative action to
effectuate the policies of the Act, the reinstatement of
employes with or without back pay. The award of back
pay, however, stands on a different basis. If employes are
to be faced with discriminatory discharge for advocating
union representation by an organization of their choice, the
threat will render doubtful, if not impossible, free and

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
ROBmTS, J., disenting.

319 U. S.

uncontrolled action on the part of the employes. The Act,
therefore, is an announcement to employes that if they are
discharged for such activity they may have reinstatement
and, in proper cases, back pay. Such a promise to employes was essential to assure them immunity for conduct
made lawful by the Act. But the payment of union dues
is quite another matter, particularly where, as here, no
employe was obliged to join the union, and no discrimination between employes resulted from joining or paying
dues to the recognized union. It is inconceivable that the
hope of reimbursement of dues paid to the union in question would have any effect on the conduct of the members
to join or refrain from joining this union or joining another
as they were free to do. Moreover, the employes were free
under the Act to adhere to another organization and to
bring about an election for the choice of another bargaining representative. The Board made no inquiry and no
finding respecting coercion of individual employes.
As I have already indicated, the only effect of the order
is to redress a supposed private wrong to employes which
the evidence and findings indicate never was inflicted, and
to inflict drastic punishment of the employer for its earlier
violation of the statute by encouraging its employes to
organize. Neither is within the competence of the Board,
as this court has repeatedly held.'
Like orders have been before the courts in eleven other
cases, as shown by the opinion of the Court. All have
reached the conclusion that the Act does not authorize
such an order.' I think that should be the decision of
the Court in this case.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in
this dissent.
8 See Notes 4 and 5, 8upra.

7I might well have contented myself, in lieu of writing, with a
reference to the opinion in Western Union Tel. Co. v. LaborBoard, 113

F. 2d 992, which exhaustively and convincingly deals with the subject.

