McLEOD v. THRELKELD.
484

Counsel for Parties.

he knowingly failed to keep the Board advised of any ad-,
dress where mail would reach him. The judgment should
be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS joins in this dissent.

McLEOD v.. THRELKELD ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 787.

Argued May 6, 7, 1943.-Decided June 7, 1943.

1. An employee whose work is to prepare meals and serve them to maintenance-of-way employees of an interstate railroad in pursuance
of a contract between his employer and the railroad company is not
"engaged in commerce" within the meaning of §§ 6 and 7 of the
Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 493.
2. The test in determining whether an employee is "engaged in commerce" within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act, §§ 6
and 7, is not whether his activities affect or indirectly relate to
interstate commerce but whether they are actually in or so closely
related to the movement of commerce as to be a part of it. P. 497.
The work of the employee decides this question; it is not important in this case whether his employer was engaged in interstate
,commerce.
131 F. 2d 880, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 318

U. S. 754, to review the affirmance of a

judgment of the District Court, 46 F. Supp. 208, in a
suit brought by McLeod against his employer under §§ 6
and 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Mr. Leon C. Levy, with whom Mr. Harry Dow was on
the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. John P. Bullington for respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs. Richard S. Salant

and Irving J. 'Levy and Miss Bessie Margolin filed a brief
531559-44-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

on behalf of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division, United States Department of Labor, as amicu8
curiae, urging reversal.
Mit.

JUSTICE

REE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This certiorari brings here for examination a judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 131
F. 2d 880, which held that a cook, employed by respondents
to prepare and serve meals to maintenance-of-way employees of the Texas &New Orleans Railroad Company, is
not engaged in commerce under §§ 6 and 7 of the Fair
Labor Standards Act and therefore not entitled to recover
for an alleged violation of that act.'
The respondents are a partnership with a contract to
furnish meals to maintenance-of-way employees of the
railroad, an interstate carrier. The meals are served in
a cook and dining car attached to a particular gang of
workmen and running on the railroad's tracks. The car
is set conveniently to the place of work of the boarders
and in emergencies follows the gang to the scene of its
activities. Employees pay the contractor for their meals
by orders authorizing the railroad company to deduct the
amount of their board from wages due and pay it over to
the contractor. The petitioner worked as cook at various
points in Texas along the line of the road during the period
in question.
As the extent of the coverage by reason of the phrase
"engaged in commerce" is important in the administration
of the Fair Labor Standards Act, we granted certiorari.
152 Stat. 1062-63. "'Sec. 6. (a) Every employer shall pay to each
of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the production of
goods for commerce wages at the following rates"Sec. 7. (a) No employer shall, except as otherwise provided in this
section, employ any of his employees who is engaged in commerce or
in the production of goods for commerce . . "

McLEOD v. THRELKELD.
491

Opinion of the Court.

In drafting legislation under the power granted by the
Constitution to regulate interstate commerce and to make
all laws necessary and proper to carry those regulations
into effect, Congress is faced continually with the difficulty of defining accurately the precise scope of the proposed bill. In the Fair Labor Standards Act, Congress
did not intend that the regulation of hours and wages
should extend to the furthest reaches of federal authority.
The proposal to have the bill apply to employees "engaged in commerce in any industry affecting commerce"
was rejected in favor of the language, now in the act, "each
of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the
production of goods for commerce." ' § § 6 and 7. See the
discussion and reference to legislative history in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, and Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., 317 U. S. 564. The selection of the
smaller group was deliberate and purposeful.
McLeod was not engaged in the production of goods for
commerce. His duties as cook and caretaker for maintenance-of-way men on a railroad lie completely outside
that clause." Our question is whether he was "engaged
in commerce."' We have held that this clause covered
2.The distinction in the coverage arising from this choice of language
was well known to Congress. Cf. National Labor Relations Act, 49
Stat. 449,450. LaborBoardv. Jones &Laughlin, 301 U.S. 1, 31 et seq.;
Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, § 4-A, 50 Stat. 72, 83; Agricultural
Adjustment Act, 50 Stat. 246; Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935, 49 Stat. 803, § 1 (c).
852 Stat. 1061. "(i) 'Goods' means goods (including ships and marine
equipment), wares, products, commodities, merchandise, or articles or
subjects of commerce of any character, or any part or ingredient
thereof, but does not include goods after their delivery into the actual
physical possession of the ultimate consumer thereof other than a
producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof."
' Cooks employed to feed workers engaged in the production of goods
for commerce have been held to be similarly engaged. Hanson v.
Lagerstrom, 133 F. 2d 120; Consolidated Timber Co. v. Womack, 132
F. 2d 101.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

every employee in the "channels of interstate commerce,"
Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., 317 U. S. 564, as distinguished from those who merely affected that commerce.
So handlers of goods for a wholesaler who moves them
interstate on order or to meet the needs of specified customers are in commerce, while those employees who handle
goods after acquisition by a merchant for general local
disposition are not.' Employees engaged in operating and
maintaining privately owned toll roads and bridges over
navigable waterways are "engaged in commerce." Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S. 125. So are employees of contractors when the employees are engaged
in repairing bridges of interstate railroads. Pedersen v.
J. F. Fitzgerald ConstructionCo., 318 U. S. 740, 742.
In the present instance, it is urged that the conception
of "in commerce" be extended beyond the employees engaged in actual work upon the transportation facilities0
It is said that this Court decided an employee, engaged
in similar work was "in commerce," under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act 1 and that it is immaterial
whether the employee is hired by the one engaged in the
interstate business since it is the activities of the employee
and not of the employer which are decisive'
5 Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., supra; Higgins v. Carr Bros.
Co.,
317 U. S. 572.
6
The contention that the work of the employee is covered by the
exemption of § 13 (a) (2)--"any employee engaged in any retail or

service establishment the greater part of whose selling or servicing is in
intrastate commerce"--- seems without significance. If the work is in
interstate commerce, the exemption does not apply. Compare .Consoddated Timber Co. v. Womack, 132 F. 2d 101, 106 et seq.; Hanson
v. Lagerstrom, 133 F. .2d 120.
T
Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co. v. Smith, 250 U. S. 101.

This case

construed the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, 35
Stat. 65, § 1; "Every common carrier by railroad while engaging in
commerce
. . . shall be liable in damages . . ."
8
Walling v. JacksonvillePaper Co., 317 U. S. 564; Kirschbaum Co. v.
Walling, 316 U. S. 517, 524.

McLEOD v. THRELKELD.
491

495

Opinion of the Court.

Judicial determination of the reach of the coverage of
the Fair Labor Standards Act "in commerce" must deal
with doubtful instances. There is no single concept of
interstate commerce which can be applied to every federal statute regulating commerce. See Kirschbaum Co.
v. Walling, supra, 520. However, the test of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act that activities so closely related
to interstate transportation as to be in practice and legal
relation a part thereof are to be considered in that commerce, is applicable to employments "in commerce" under
the Fair Labor Standards Act.'
The effect of the over-refinement of factual situations
which hampered the application of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, prior to the recent amendment, we
hope, is not to be repeated in the administration and operation of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Where the
accident occurs on or in direct connection with the instrumentalities of transportation, such as tracks and engines,
interstate commerce has been used interchangeably with
interstate transportation." But where the distinction
between what a common carrier by railroad does while
engaging in commerce between the states, i. e., transportation, and interstate commerce in general is important,
the Federal Employers' Liability Act was construed prior
to the 1939 amendment as applying to transportation
only."
Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556, 558; Chicago

& North Western Ry. Co. v. Bolle, 284 U. S. 74.78; Chicago & Eastern
Illinois R. Co. v. Commission, 284 U. S. 296; New York, N. H. & H.
R. Co. v. Bezue, 284 U. S. 415,419.
0

SAct of August 11, 1939, 53 Stat. 1404; Hearings, Senate Commit-

tee on the Judiciary, Amending the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
March 28 and 29, 1939, pp. 3-9, 26-30; S. Rep. No. 661, 76th Cong.,

1st Sess.
"Pedersen v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146, 151; cf.
Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S. 125.
12 See the cases cited in note 9, supra.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the. Court.

319 U.S.

The Smith' case construed the Employers' Liability
Act to apply to a cook and caretaker employed by the
railroad to care for a camp car used for feeding and housing a group of the railroad's bridge carpenters. At the
time of the accident the cook was engaged in these duties.
In holding the cook was "in commerce" this Court said:
"The circumstance that the risks of personal injury to
which plaintiff was subjected were similar to those that
attended the work of train employees generally and of
the bridge workers themselves when off duty, while not
without significance, is of little moment. The significant
thing, in our opinion, is that he was employed by defendant to assist, and actually was assisting, the work of the
bridge carpenters by keeping their bed and board close
to their place of work, thus rendering it easier for defendant to maintain a proper organization of the bridge gang
and forwarding their work by reducing the time lost in
going to and from their meals and their lodging place. If,
instead, he had brought their meals to them daily at the
bridge upon which they happened to be working, it hardly
would be questioned that his work in so doing was a part
of theirs. What he was in fact doing was the same in
kind, and did not differ materially in degree. Hence he
was employed, as they were, in interstate commerce, within the meaning of the Employers' Liability Act." 250
U. S. 101, 104.
Such a ruling under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
after the Bolle, Industrial Commission and Bezue cases,

supra, note 9, should not govern our conclusions under the
Fair Labor Standards Act. These three later cases limited the coverage of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
to the actual operation of transportation and acts so
closely related to transportation as to be themselves really
a part of it. They recognized the fact that railroads
i 8Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co. v. Smith, 250 U. S. 101.

McLEOD v. THRELKELD.
491

Opinion of the Court.

carried commerce and were thus a part of it but that each
employment that indirectly assisted the functioning of
that transportation was not a part. The test under this
present act, to determine whether an employee is engaged
in commerce, is not whether the employee's activities affect or indirectly relate to interstate commerce but
whether they are actually in or so closely related to the
movement of the commerce as to be a part of it. 4 Employee activities outside of this movement, so far as they
are covered by wage-hour regulation, are governed by the
other phrase, "production of goods for commerce." "6
It is not important whether the employer, in this case
the contractor, is engaged in interstate commerce. It is
the work of the employee which is decisive. Here the
employee supplies the personal needs of the maintenanceof-way men. Food is consumed apart from their work.
The furnishing of board seems to us as remote from commerce, in this instance, as in the cases where employees
supply themselves. In one instance the food would be
as necessary for the continuance of their labor as in the
other.
14 Thus we said as to a rate clerk employed by a motor transportation
company:
"It is plain that the respondent as a transportation worker was
engaged in commerce within the meaning of the Act .. ." Overnight
Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572, 575.
18 52 Stat. 1060-61.
See. 3. "(b) 'Commerce' means trade, commerce, transportation,
transmission, or communication among the several States or from any
State to any place outside thereof.

"(j) 'Produced' means produced, manufactured, mined, handled, or
in any other manner worked on in any State; and for the purposes of
this Act an employee shall be deemed to have been engaged in the production of goods if such employee was employed in producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, transporting, or in any other manner working on such goods, or in any process or occupation necessary to the
production thereof, in any State."

493

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MuRm'Y,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

We agree with the conclusion of the District Court and
the Circuit Court of Appeals that this employee is not
engaged in commerce under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Affirmed.
Ma.

JUSTICE

MURPH Y, dissenting:

I think that petitioner is covered by the Fair Labor
Standards Act.
In using the phrase "engaged in commerce" Congress
meant to extend the benefits of the Act to employees
"throughout the farthest reaches of the channels of interstate commerce." Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co.,
317 U. S. 564, 567. We recently construed the phrase to
include employees whose activities are so closely related
to interstate commerce "as to be in practice and in legal
contemplation a part of it." Overstreet v. North Shore
Corp., 318 U. S. 125, 129, 130, 132. This practical test
was derived from cases such as Pedersen v. Delaware, L.
& W. R.: Co., 229 U. S. 146, 151, and Philadelphia,B. &
W. R. Co. v. Smith, 250 U. S. 101, construing similar
language in the Federal Employers' Liability Act.' The
activities of petitioner in cooking for a traveling maintenance crew of an interstate railroad are sufficient to
satisfy this test. It was so held in the Smith case, 250
U. S. 101, the facts of which are virtually identical with
the instant case except for the immaterial difference that
petitioner here was employed by an independent contractor rather than by the railroad itself.2 The reasoning
of the Smith case is persuasive and should control this
one.
I Act of April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, as it was before the amendment
of 1939, 53 Stat. 1404. 45 U. S. C. § 51 et seq.
2The application of the Fair Labor Standards Act, of course, de-

penais upon the character of the employees' activities, not the nature
of the employer's business. Overstreetv. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S.
125, 132, and cases cited.

McLEOD v. THRELKELD.
491

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

The opinion of the Court, however, rejects the concept
of coverage used in the Smith case for the narrower test
of whether an employee is engaged "in interstate transportation or in work so closely related to it as to be practically a part of it," used in another line of cases under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act.' I think this is
wrong for several reasons.
The Fair Labor Standards Act extends to employees
"engaged in commerce," not merely to those engaged in
transportation.4 As the Bolle case itself points out:
"Commerce covers the whole field of which transportation
is only a part." 284 U. S. at 78. Hence, whatever basis
there may have been for restricting the coverage of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act to employees actually
engaged in transportation because of the fact that the Act
applied only to those working for employers engaged in
interstate transportation by rail,' can have no possible
application or bearing on the interpretation of the Fair
Labor Standards Act. The coverage of this Act is much
more extensive. It is not limited to employees of interstate carriers but extends generally to employees engaged
in all kinds of commerce, including transportation.
Nothing in the Act suggests that it has a narrower application to employees whose work "in commerce" is
transportation or work connected therewith, than it has
to employees who are engaged in commerce but whose
work has nothing to do with transportation. Such a construction is untenable because it would discriminate
without reason between different types of employees, all
3

Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556, 558; Chicago
& North Western Ry. Co. v. Bolle, 284 U. S. 74; Chicago & Eastern
Illinois R. Co. v. Commission, 284 U. S. 296; New York, N. H. & H. R.
Co. v. Bezue, 284 TJ. S. 415.
1 The Act defines '!commerce" as: "trade, commerce, transportation,
transmission, or communication among the several States or from any
State to any place outside thereof." 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 203.

5 See Chicago & North Western Ry. Co. v. Bolle, 284 U. S. 74, 78.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MU"HY, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

of whom fall within the same general statutory classification of "engaged in commerce."
The necessary effect of rejecting the Smith case for the
restrictive concept of "in commerce" which was used in
the Shanks,' Bolle,7 Commissions and Bezue ' cases is to
introduce into the administration of the Fair Labor
Standards Act that concededly undesirable confusion
which characterized the application of the Federal Employers' Liability Act and prompted the 1939 amendment
(53 Stat. 1404) which in effect repudiated the narrow
test of the Shanks line of cases. The reality of this confusion is readily demonstrable. We have held that a rate
clerk employed by an interstate motor carrier "0and a
seller of tickets on a toll bridge over which interstate
traffic moves 11 are both "engaged in commerce" within
the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Yet, in
the view of the majority of the Court, when the employees' activities are in the field of transportation, the Act
apparently will not cover ' those who work in an interstate carrier's repair shop on facilities to supply power
for machinery used in repairing instrumentalities of
transportation, 8 or who heat cars and depots used by interstate passengers," or who store fuel for the use of interstate vehicles, 5 or who work on such vehicles when with6 239

U. S. 556.

'284 U. S. 74.
8 284 U. S. 296.
9 284 U. S. 415.
10 Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572.
1Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S. 125.
12 This is discussed wholly apart from the question of the applicability of § 7 because of the exemption contained in § 13 (b) (1) of the
Act.8 See Southland Gasoline Co. v. Bayley, ante, p. 44.
i Cf. Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 239 U. f. 556.
114
Cf. Chicago & North Western Ry. Co. v. Bole, 24 U. S. 74.
.' Cf. Chicago & Eastern Illinois R. Co. v. Commission, 284 U. S.

McLEOD v. THRELKELD.
491

MuRPHY, J., dissenting.

drawn for the moment from commerce for repairs." The
anomaly of this is clear-there is no sound reason for extending the benefits of the Act to a rate clerk employed
in the office of an interstate motor carrier and denying

them to the janitor who keeps the office clean and warm,
or the employee who works in the carrier's shop on machinery used to repair interstate vehicles, or on. the
vehicles themselves.
If the applicable provision were "engaged in the production of goods for commerce" instead of "engaged in commerce," our decisions make it clear that employees such as
the janitor and the shop tender and probably petitioner
would be within the Act. Cf. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling,
316 U. S. 517; Warren-Bradshaw Co. v. Hall, 317 U. S.
88.1' The phrase "engaged in commerce" should be as
broadly construed. In the words of one of the Act's sponsors, the phrase extends to "employees who are a necessary part of carrying on" a business operating in interstate
commerce."8 Petitioner's work was evidently considered
necessary to the operation of the railroad; else it would
have made no provision for boarding its maintenance
crews. We have cast the relevant tests for determining
the scope of the two phrases of coverage in substantially
similar language.. In Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, work
which "had such a close and immediate tie with the process of production for commerce" as to be "an essential part
16 Cf. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Bezue, 284 U. S. 415.
17 Employees cooking for workers engaged in the production of goods

for commerce have been held to be similarly engaged and covered by
the Act. ConsolidatedTimber Co. v. Womack, 132 F. 2d 101; Hanson
v. Lagerstrom, 133 F. 2d 120.
18 Speaking for the Senate conferees on the Conference Report,
Senator Borah said: ".... if the business is such as to occupy the channels of interstate commerce, any of the employees who are a necessary
part of carrying on that business are within the terms of this bill, and, in
my opinion, are under the Constitution of the United States." 83 Cong.
Rec. 9170.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MuRPHY,J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

of it" was held to be "necessary to the production .ofgoods
for commerce." 316 U. S. at 525-26. Correspondingly,
in Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., we held that the phrase
"engaged in commerce" includes work Which "is so intimately related to interstate commerce 'as to be in practice
and in legal contemplation a part of it."' 318 U. S. at
130, The purpose of the "production of goods for commerce" phrase was obviously not to cut down the scope
of "engaged in commerce," but to broaden the Act's application by reaching conditions in the production of
goods for commerce which Congress considered injurious
to interstate commerce. See United States v. Darby, 312
U. S. 100. The effect of the Court's decision today, however, is to recognize that federal power over commerce
has been sweepingly exercised when an employee's work is
in the production of goods for commerce, but to limit it,
when the employee's activities are in transportation or
connected therewith, to the narrow and legislatively repudiated view of the Shanks, Bolle, Commission and
Bezue cases. Such an unbalanced application of the
statute is contrary to its purpose of affording coverage
broadly "throughout the farthest reaches of the channels of interstate commerce" to employees, "engaged in
commerce."
The judgment should be reversed.
MR.JUSTIcE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLEDE join in this dissent.

