TAYLOR v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

TAYLOR v. MISSISSIPPI.*
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 826.

Argued April 15, 16, 1943.-Decided June 14, 1943.

1. The Fourteenth Amendment prohibits punishment under a state
statute for urging and advising that, on religious grounds, citizens
refrain from saluting the flags of the United States and the State.
P. 588.
2. Conviction under a state statute denouncing as a crime the disseminating of literature tending to create "an attitude of stubborn
refusal to salute, honor, or respect" the national and state flags and
governments denies the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 589.
3. The Fourteenth Amendment prohibits that a State should punish
the communication of one's views of governmental policies and one's
prophecies of the future of this and other nations, when this is without sinister purpose and is not in advocacy of, or incitement to, subversive action against the nation or state and does not involve any
clear and present danger to our institutions or government. P. 589.
194 Miss. 1, 59,74, 11 So. 2d 663, 683,689, reversed.

APPEALS from judgments by an evenly divided court

affirming sentences imposed in three criminal prosecutions.
Mr. Hayden C. Covington for appellants.
Mr. Geo. H. Ethridge, Assistant Attorney General of
Mississippi, with whom Mr. Greek L. Rice, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellee.
-

Mr. CharlesC. Evans filed a brief on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union, as amicus curiae,urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered

the opinion of the Court..

March 20, 1942,,the State of Mississippi enacted a statute' the title of which declares that it is intended to
*Together with No. 827, Benoit v. Mississippi, and No. 828, Cummings v. Mississippi, also on appeals from the Supreme Court of
Mississippi.
2 Chap. 178, General Laws of Mississippi, 1942.

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinioii of the Court.

319 U. S.

secure the peace and safety of the United States and of
the State of Mississippi during war and to prohibit acts
detrimental to public peace and safety. The first section, with which alone we are here concerned, provides:
"That any person who individually, or as a member
of any organization, association, or otherwise, shall intentionally preach, teach, or disseminate any teachings,
creed, theory, or set of alleged principles, orally, or by
means of a phonograph or other contrivance of any kind
or nature, or by any other means or method, or by the distribution of any sort of literature, or written or printed
matter, designed and calculated to encourage violence,
sabotage, or disloyalty to the government of the United
States, or the state of Mississippi, or who by action or
speech, advocates the cause of the enemies of the United
States or who gives information as to the military operations, or plans of defense or military secrets of the nation
or this state, by speech, letter, map or picture which would
incite any sort of racial distrust, disorder, prejudices or
hatreds, or which reasonably tends to create an attitude
of stubborn refusal to salute, honor or respect the flag or
government of the United States, or of the state of Mississippi, shall be guilty of a felony and punished by imprisonment in the state penitentiary until treaty of peace be
declared by the United States but such imprisonment
shall not exceed ten years."
At the June 1942 term of the Madison County Circuit
Court, Taylor, the appellant in No. 826, was indicted
for orally disseminating teachings designed and calculated
to encourage disloyalty to the government of the United
States and that of the State of Mississippi; and for orally
disseminating teachings and distributing literature and
printed matter reasonably tending to create an attitude
of stubborn refusal to salute, honor, and respect the flag
and government of the United States and of the State of

TAYLOR v. MISSISSIPPI.
583

Opinion of the Court.

Mississippi, and designed and calculated to encourage disloyalty to the government of the United States.
At the June 1942 term of the Marion County Circuit
Court, Betty Benoit, the appellant in No. 827, was indicted for disseminating and distributing literature and
printed matter designed and calculated, and which reasonably tended, to create an attitude of stubborn ,refusal
to salute, honor, and respect the flag and government of
the United States.
At the July 1942 term of the Warren County Circuit
Court, Cummings, the appellant in No. 828, was indicted
for distributing -printed matter designed and calculated
to encourage disloyalty to the United States Government
and to the State of Mississippi, and tending to create an
attitude of stubborn refusal to salute, honor or respect
the flag or the government of the United States and the,
State of Mississippi.
Demurrers and motions to quash, challenging the constitutional validity of the statute, were overruled. The
defendants pleaded to the indictments and, after trial,
were convicted. Each was sentenced to imprisonment
in the state penitentiary for a term to expire at the end
of the existing war, but not to exceed ten years. Appeals
were perfected to the Supreme Court of Mississippi which,
by an evenly divided court, affirmed the convictions. 2
The appellants maintained below, and assert here, that
their convictions denied them the rights guaranteed by
the Fourteenth and First Amendments, in that, as construed and applied to them, the Act abridges freedom of
press and of speech and is so vague, indefinite, and uncertain as to furnish no reasonably ascertainable standrd
of guilt.
The evidence was contradictory and conflicting but the
juries resolved the conflicts against the appellants. We
2 194

Miss. 1, 59, 74; 11 So. 2d 663, 683, 689.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

'

319 U. S.

must, therefore, examine the questions presented on the
basis of the proofs submitted by the State.
In No. 826 the prosecution offered evidence to show
that Taylor, in the course of interviews with several

women, the sons of two of whom had been killed in battle
overseas, stated that it was wrong for our President to send

our boys across in uniform to fight our enemies; that it
was wrong to fight our enemies; that these boys were being
shot down for no purpose at all; that the two women's
sons may have thought they were doing the right thing
to fight our enemies, but it was wrong; that Hitler would
rule but would not have to come here to rule; that the
quicker people here quit bowing down and worshiping
and saluting our flag and Government the sooner we
would have peace. Books and pamphlets distributed by
Taylor were placed in evidence. Certain statements in
these books, said by the Supreme Court of Mississippi to
be typical, are copied in the margin.8
8"All nations of the earth tpdlay are under the influence and control
of the demons ....
All the nations suffer the same fate or come to the
same end, because all nations of earth are on the wrong side, that is, on
the losing side. All of such nations are against the Theocratic Government, that is, the government of kingdom of Almighty God . . . and
all are under the control of the invisible host of demons, ...
"But to compel people to salute a flag or any other image is wrong,
and particularly if that person believes on God and Christ Jesus.
For the Christian to salute a flag is in direct violation of God's specific
commandment."
"Almighty God commands that they must remain entirely neutral
in the controversy. Because his covenant people are servants and
representatives of THB THEOCRACY they must hold themselves entirely
aloof from warring factions of this world."
"Non-Christians may salute the flag without reference to the foregoing rules. Those who are real conscientious Christians are in a
class entirely different from others of the world. Jehovah's witnesses
are Christians and in a covenant to be entirely obedient to God's law.
They must teach their children and admonish them to obey God's law,
as he has commanded. They are conscientious and they sincerely be-

TAYLOR v. MISSISSIPPI.
583

Opinion of the Court.

In No. 827 it was proved that the appellant Betty Benoit
distributed Volume XXIII, No. 583, of a publication entitled "Consolation," which contained a reprint of an editorial from a Lewiston, Maine, newspaper commenting

adversely upon the decision in Minersville School District
v. Gobitis, 310 U. S. 586, and vigorously asserting that the
salute of the national flag amounted to a contemptible
form of primitive idol worship. The publication also
contained an alleged foreign dispatch which stated that
the flag salute ceremony, a daily event in French schools,

originated in the Catholic schools of France; commented
that the type of mind which finds satisfaction in worshiping images would also be most inclined towards various
kinds of emblem worship, and added that the dispatch
confirms the claim that the flag salute in the United States
has been covertly pushed by the Catholic hierarchy here.
In No. 828 the State proved that the appellant Cummings distributed a book called "Children." The volume
was placed in evidence. Long excerpts were read to the
jury most of which seem irrelevant to the charges in the

indictment. One passage, however, appears to be that
on which the prosecution especially relied. It is copied
in.the margin.4
lieve that for them to indulge in the formalism or ceremony of saluting
any flag is a violation of God's specific commandment. .."
In its opinion the court added:
"Other passages in this literature teach that 'the so-called democracies' hold out no hope of peace, security, life or happiness-that the
only place of safety is in Theocracy; that if there is a conflict between
state law and what Jehovah's witnesses conceive to be Jehovah's law,
the state law should not be obeyed; that Jehovah's witnesses take a
pledge not to salute the flag and that to undertake by law to force a
child to salute the flag is to 'frame mischief by law."'
6"Satan knows that his time is short, and therefore he is desperately
trying to turn all persons, including the children, against God. (Rev-

elation 12: 12, 17.)

Therefore Satan influences public officials and

others to compel little children to indulge in idolatrous practices by
531550-4

.I

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S

The appellants are all members of Jehovah's Witnesses. There is nothing in the records to indicate that,
in making the statements and distributing the printed
matter in question, they were communicating and teaching any doctrine in which they did not sincerely believe.
Section 1 of the Act defines six offenses. The indictments in Nos. 826 and 828 charge the commission of two
of them 'in a single count,-(1) teaching and dissemination of printed matter designed and calculated to encourage disloyalty to the national and state governments, and
(2) distribution of printed matter reasonably tending to
create an attitude of stubborn refusal to honor or respect
the flag or government of the- United States or of the
State of Mississippi. In No. 827 the single offense charged
is the dissemination of literature reasonably tending to
create the denounced attitude towards the flag and
Government.
In West Virginia State Board of Educationv. Barnette,
post, p. 624, the court has decided that a state may not enbowing down to some image or thing, such as saluting flags and hailing
men, and which is in direct violation of God's commandment. (Exodus 20: 1-5.) That is why in the last few years rules are made
and enforced in the public schools compelling children of the Jonadabs, who are in a covenant to do God's will, to indulge in the idolatrous practice of flag-saluting and hailing men. It is the influence
of that subtle foe, the Devil, that has brought about this state of
affairs, and now Satan's agents cause great persecution to be brought
upon the parents and the children who insist on obeying the commandments of God. This makes the way of both parents and children
more difficult, but at the same time it puts a test upon them and
affords them the opportunity to prove their faith and obedience
and to maintain their integrity towards God and his King."
5There is no charge in any of the indictments of (1) preaching,
teaching, dissemination of teahings, or distribution of written or
printed matter designed or calculated to encourage violence or. sabotage; (2) advocacy, by action or speech, of the cause of the enemies
of the United States; (3) the giving of information as to military
affairs; (4) incitement of racial disturbances, disorder, prejudice or
hatred.

TAYLOR v. MISSISSIPPI.
583

Opinion of the Court.

force a regulation requiring children in the public schools
to salute the national emblem. The statute here in question seeks to punish as a criminal one who teaches resistance to governmental compulsion to salute. If the
Fourteenth Amendment bans enforcement of the school
regulation, a fortiori it prohibits the imposition of punishment for urging and advising that, on religious grounds,
citizens refrain from saluting the flag. If the state cannot
constrain one to violate his conscientious religious conviction by saluting the national emblem, then certainly it
cannot punish him for imparting his views on the subject
to his fellows and exhorting them to accept those views.
Inasmuch as Betty Benoit was charged only with disseminating literature reasonably tending to create an attitude of stubborn refusal to salute, honor, or respect the
national apd state flags and governments, her conviction
denies her the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment. Her conviction and the convictions of
Taylor and Cummings, for advocating and teaching refusal to salute the flag, cannot be sustained.
The last-mentioned appellants were also charged with
oral teachings and the dissemination of literature calculated to encourage disloyalty to the state and national
governments. Their convictions on this charge must also
be set aside.
The statute as construed in these cases makes it a criminal offense to communicate to others views and opinions
respecting governmental policies, and prophecies concerning the future of our own and other nations. As applied to
the appellants, it punishes them although what they communicated is not claimed or shown to have been done with
an evil or sinister purpose, to have advocated or incited
subversive action against the nation or state,' or to have
threatened any clear and present danger to our institu6 See Schenck v. United Sttates, 249* U. S. 47; Abrams v. United
States, 250 U. S. 616; Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
319 U. S.

Syllabus.

tions or our Government.!

What these appellants com-

municated were their beliefs and opinions

S

concerning

domestic measures and trends in national and world
affairs.
Under our decisions criminal sanctions cannot be imposed for such communication.
The judgments are

Reversed.
INTERSTATE TRANSIT LINES v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 552. Argued April 19, 1943.--Decided June 14, 1943.
1. A corporation, operating a bus line interstate and intrastate, finding
that in a particular State it could not lawfully engage in the local
,business because it had not been there incorporated, organized, pursuant to the laws of that State, a wholly-owned subsidiary which took
over the parent company's traffic from the state line and operated
intrastate as well. Pursuant to the contract between them, the
parent corporation kept the accounts of the subsidiary, managed its
finances, paid its bills, and absorbed all of its profits and deficits.
Held:
(1) That a payment made by the parent company to cover an
operating deficit of the subsidiary during a tax year was not deductible by the parent company under ยง 23 (a) of the Revenue Act
of 1936 from gross income as an ordinary and necessary business
expense of that company. P. 593.
(2) In the absence of proof allocating the deficit as between the
intrastate and interstate business of the subsidiary, the entire deficit
must be attributed to the intrastate business. P. 594.
. (3) The mere fact that the expense was incurred under
contractual obligation did not sustain the deduction. P. 594.
See De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353; Herndon v. Lowry, 301
U. S. 242.
See Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359; Thornhill v. Alabama
310 U. S. 88.
7

