OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

affecting commerce, as well as commerce itself. It is
interesting to compare, in this connection, other statutes
enacted by the same Congress. Three adopted in July
and August 1935 covered activities "affecting" commerce; 12 three, including the Federal Power Act in question, adopted in August 1935 did not cover activities
"affecting" commerce.13 Thus the legislature's discriminating use of language argues strongly for denial of the
jurisdiction the Commission asserts.
I think the judgment should be reversed.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and Ma.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

concur in this opinion.

NOBLE,

NOBLE TRANSIT CO., v.
UNITED STATES ET AL.

DOING BUSINESS AS

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 511.

Argued April 6, 7, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.

In a permit to operate as a contract carrier under the "grandfather"
clause of § 209 (a) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, it is within
the authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission-under
§ 209 (b), requiring that the Commission specify in such permit
"the business of the carrier covered thereby and the scope thereof"to specify the shippers or types of shippers for whom the carrier
may haul designated commodities. P. 91.
45 F. Supp. 793, affirmed.
12 See National Labor Relations Act, § 2 (7), 49 Stat. 449, 450, 29
U. S. C. § 152 (7); Public Utility Holding Company Act, § 1 (c),
49 Stat. 803, 804, 15 U. S. C. § 79 (c) ; Bituminous Coal Conservation
Act, § 1, 49 Stat. 991, 992.
18See Federal Power Act, § 201 (b), 49 Stat. 838, 847, 16 U. S. C.
§ 824 (b); Motor Carrier Act, § 202 (b), 49 Stat. 543, 49 U. S. C.
§ 302 (b); Federal Alcohol Administration Act, § 3, 49 Stat. 977, 978,
27 U. S. C. § 203.

NOBLE v. UNITED STATES;
Opinion of the Co xrt.

88

APPEAL from a judgment of a-District Court of three

judges, dismissing the complaint in a suit to set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Messrs. Charles A. Lethert and C. D. Todd, Jr. for
appellant.
Mr. Allen Crenshaw, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Daniel W. Knowlton and E. M. Reidy were on
the brief, for the United States et al.; and Mr. FranklinR.
Overmyer for the Regular Common Carrier Conference of
the American Trucking Associations et al.,-appellees.
Mr. C. D. Todd, Jr.filed a brief on behalf of the Contract
Carrier Division of the American Trucking Associations,
as amicus curiae, in support of appellant.
MR. JusTIc

DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal 1 from the judgment of a three-judge
court (45 F. Supp 793) which'dismissed a complaint filed
by appellant to review and annul certain restrictive provisions of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission (28 M. C. C. 653), granting appellant, a permit to
operate as a contract carrier by motor vehicle under the
Motor Carrier Act of 1935 (49 Stat. 543, 49 U. S. C. § 301),
now designated as Part II of the Interstate Commerce
Act. 54 Stat. 919.
Appellant filed an application for a permit as a contract
carrier under the "grandfather" clause of § 209 (a) of the
Act. That section Wovides that if the contract carrier
or his predecessor in interest "was in bona fide operation
as a contract carrier by motor vehicle on July 1, 1935, over
the route or routes or within the territory for which application is made and has so operated since that time," he
§§ 210 and 238 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S.C. § 47a, § 345.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

shall be granted a permit without more. And § 209 (b)
provides that the Commission "shall specify in the permit
the business of the contract carrier covered thereby and
the scope thereof." 2
The Commission found that appellant was not a common carrier of general commodities but a contract carrier ' of specified commodities. It found in that connection that on and after July 1, 1935, appellant had been
"in bona fide operation as a contract carrier" by motor
vehicle "under individual contracts" with persons who
"operate food canneries or meat-packing businesses, (a)
of canned foods from Blue Island, Ill., to St. Paul, South
St. Paul, Minneapolis, and Minnesota Transfer, Minn.,
and (b) of fresh meats, canned foods, dairy products, and
packing-house products and supplies, from South St. Paul
to Grand Forks, N. Dak., Chicago and Rockford, Ill., and
points in that portion of Wisconsin on and east of the
Mississippi River from the intersection of the WisconsinIllinois-Iowa State lines near Dubuque, Iowa, to La
Crosse, Wis., and U. S. Highway 53 from La 'Crosse to
Cameron, Wis., and on and south of U. S. Highway 8, and
(c) of the commodities described in (b) from Chicago to
St. Paul, Minneapolis, South St. Paul, Winona, and Rochester, Minn., and La Crosse, Wis., over irregular routes;"
28 M. C. C. p. 660. The Commission accordingly found
2Sec. 209 (b) also provides that the Commission shall attach certain terms, conditions and limitations to the permit. It goes on to
state, however, that those conditions shall not "restrict the right of
the carrier to substitute or add contracts within the scope of the permit, or to add to his or its equipment and facilities, within the scope
of the permit, as the development of the business and the demands of
the public may require."
8 The term "contract carrier" is defined by § 203 (a)' (15) as "any
person which, under individual contracts or agreements," engages in
the transportation by motor vehicle of "passengers or property in
interstate or foreign commerce for compensation."

NOBLE v. UNITED STATES.

91

Opinion of the Court.

88

that appellant was entitled to a permit authorizing "the
continuance of such operations."
Appellant's chief objection to that limitation of his
rights under the "grandfather" clause is that the Commission has restricted the shippers or types of shippers
for whom he may haul the specified commodities. His
argument comes down to this: once the territory which
he may serve and the commodities which he may haul
have been determined, he should be allowed to haul these
commodities for any one he chooses within those territorial limits. In the present case appellant hauled under
contract miscellaneous supplies for Swift & Co. Such as
glue, paper, barrels, soap, bolts, thermometers, etc. His
argument accordingly is that he should be allowed to haul
the same items for any other person in the territory, whatever may be the business of that person and irrespective
of the fact that appellant had never had any contract of
carriage with him.
The Commission at one time seems to have followed
that view. Longshore Contract Carrier Application, 2
M. C. C. 480, 481. But it no longer does. Keystone
Transportation Co. Contract Carrier Application, 19
M. C. C. 475. In the latter case the power and duty of
the Commission under § 209 (b) to specify in the permit
"the business of the contract carrier covered thereby and
the scope thereof" were reexamined. It was held that that
phrase meant "more than just the business of being a
contract carrier within a defined territory. It is allinclusive and connotes in addition to the business of being
a contract carrier the exact and precise character of the
service to be rendered by such carrier." 19 M. C. C. 493.
We agree. An accurate description of the "business"
of a particular contract carrier and the "scope" of the
enterprise may require more than a statement of the territory served and the commodities hauled. An accurate
531559-44-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

41

definition frequently can be made only in terms of the
type or class of shippers served. Unless the words of the
Act are given that interpretation, permits under the
"grandfather" clause may greatly distort the prior activities of the carrier. He who was in substance a highly
specialized carrier for a select few would be treated as a
carrier of general commodities for all comers, merely because he had carried a wide variety of articles. That
would make a basic alteration in the characteristics of the
enterprise of the contract carrier-a change as fundamental as we thought was effected by a disregard of the
nature and scope of the holding out of the common carrier in United States v. Carolina Freight CarriersCorp.,
315 U. S. 475. If the business of the contract carrier were
not defined in terms of the type or class of shippers served,
that "substantial parity between future operations and
prior bona fide operations" which is contemplated by the
Act (Alton R. Co. v. United States, 315 U. S. 15, 22) would
be frequently disregarded. The "grandfather" clause
would be utilized not to preserve the position which the
carrier had obtained in the nation's transportation system, but to enlarge and expand the business beyond the
pattern which it had acquired prior to July 1, 1935. The
result in the present case would be a conversion, for all
practical purposes, of this contract carrier into a common
carrier-a step which would tend to nullify a distinction
which Congress has preserved throughout the Act. If
such a metamorphosis is to be effected or if the appellant
is to obtain a permit broader than the actual scope of his
established business, the showing required by other provisions of the Act must be made. See § 206 (a), §207, and
§ 209 (b).
Since the Commission did not apply an incorrect standard in defining the nature of appellant's business and its

NOBLE v. UNITED STATES.
88

Opinion of the Court.

scope,' our function is at an end. The precise delineation
of an enterprise which seeks the protection of the "grandfather" clause has been reserved for the Commission.
United States v. Maher, 307 U. S. 148; Alton R. Co. v.
United States, supra; United States v. Carolina Freight
CarriersCorp., supra.
We have considered the other objections raised by the
appellant and find them without merit.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

took no part in the consideration

or decision of the case.

' We do not accede to the suggestion that the permit specification
clause in § 209 (b) is applicable only to new operators, not to "grandfather" applicants. The Commission has consistently taken the view
that it covers both. Motor Convoy, Inc., 2 M. C. C. 197, 200; Wray
Wible, 7 M. C. C. 165, 168; James P. Hunter, 13 M. C. C. 109, 112113; Marine Trucking Co., Inc., 17 M. C. C. 615. That interpretation
is entitled to "great weight." United States v. American Trucking
Assns., 310 U. S. 534, 549. It is consistent with the wording of § 209.
Paragraph (a) requires a contract carrier to have a "permit" in order
to operate as such; and it requires the Commission to issue the permit
"without further proceedings, if application for such permit is made
to the Commission as provided in paragraph (b)" within the prescribed time limitation.

