98

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

tional reason why a state may not make the transfer
inter vivos the taxable event and then measure the tax
by the value of the property at time of death. Keeney
v. New York, 222 U. S. 525. Cf. Milliken v. United
States, 283 U. S. 15, 20, 22, 23; Helvering v. Hallock, 309
U. S. 106, 111; Paul, Federal Estate and Gift Taxation
(1942) § 2.13. A state which may tax the disposition of
property made by one of its domiciliaries certainly may
make the payment of the tax conditional on his being
domiciled in the state at his death, and may delay payment until then. The fact that the taxable event and the
tax levy are widely separated in time is quite irrelevant.
In short, "The due process clause places no restriction on a
State as to the time at which an inheritance tax shall be
levied or the property valued for purposes of such tax."
Salomon v. State Tax Commission, 278 U. S. 484, 490. And
if the transfer to the sons is assumed to have taken place
only at the time of the grantor's death, there is no constitutional reason why the result need be different. The fact
that he did not then "own" the property is inconsequential. Cf. Whitney v. State. Tax Commission, 309 U. S.
530. The significant facts are that the rights of the remaindermen derived'solely from the trust agreement and
that the grantor died domiciled in New Jersey.
Affirmed.

DETROIT EDISON CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 675.

Argued April 13, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.

1. Under § 23 (1) of the Revenue Act of 1936, an electric power company is not entitled to a deduction on account of depreciation in
respect of the cost of extensions of its facilities, to the extent that

DETROIT EDISON CO. v. COMM'R.
98

Opinion of the Court.

such cost was borne by customers whose payments to the company
therefor were not refunded nor refundable. P. 102.
2. Sections 113 (a) (2) and (8) (B) of the Revenue Act of 1936 are
inapplicable, since the customers' payments in question were reither
"gifts" nor "contributions" to the company. P. 102.
131 F. 2d 619, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 749, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 45 B. T. A. 358, which
sustained the Commissioner's determination of a deficiency
in income tax.
Mr. Norris Darrell,with whom Messrs.Edward H. Green
and Oscar C. Hull were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., and
Messrs. Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner, The Detroit Edison Company, engages
in the generation of electric energy and its distribution to
the public in and near Detroit. It receives many applications for service which in its opinion would require an
investment in extension of its facilities greater than prospective revenues therefrom would warr.nt. In such cases
it undertakes to render the service if the applicant will
p'ay the estimated cost of the necessary construction. This
is done by contract of which there are five variations, some
of which provide for refunds of- part of the customers'
cost if additional cuistomers come in to share it, or if
revenues exceed estimates. With these provisions we
are not concerned, since the controversy here relates only
to payments that never were, or which by the contracts
have ceased to be, refundable. The amounts of the cus-

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

tomers' payments are fixed by an estimate of the cost;
they never exceed, and sonmetimes fall short of actual cost,
but are not adjusted because of the difference between
estimates and realization.
The Company constructs the facilities, which become its
property, and adds the full cost to its appropriate property accounts without deduction for the customer payment. It claims as a base for computing its depreciation the investment for which the Company is then reimbursed. Customers' payments are not appropriated to
the particular construction nor earmarked for it, but go
into the Company's general working funds. During the
period that a payment is subject to refund it is carried
in a suspense account; but if it is not subject to refund,
or when the refund period is past, the unrefunded and unrefundable balances are transferred to surplus through an
account designated as "Contributions for Extensions."
During 1936 and 1937, the years in question, the Company added to its surplus from such sources $36,065.81
and $47,500.67 respectively. The Commigsioner eliminated from the depreciable property of the Company that
portion of the cost equivalent to the unrefunded and unrefundable balances of the deposits. These eliminations,
amounting to upwards of $1,160,000 in each year, resulted
in disallowing depreciation deductions from income of
$40,273.11 for 1936 and $41,786.26 for 1937, and in deficiencies which the Company contested. The Board of
Tax Appeals sustained the Commissioner and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.' Because the decision
appeared to conflict with principles followed in another
circuit,2 we granted certiorari.
A deduction from gross income on account of depreciation is permitted by § 23 (1) of the applicable Revenue
145 B. T. A. 358; 131 F. 2d 619.
2Arundel-Brooks Concrete Corp. v. Commissioner, .129 F. 2d 762
(C. C. A. 4th).

DETROIT EDISON CO. v. COMM'R.
98

Opinion of the Court.

Act in these terms: "A reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property used in the trade
or business, including a reasonable allowance for obsolesFor the basis we are referred by § 23 (n) to
cence."
§ 114 of the Act which refers us again to § 113 (b) thereof
which provides an "adjusted basis" for gain or loss but
which again refers us to § 113 (a) for the basis upon which
adjustment is to be made. The sum of these is that the.
basis of depreciation allowance "shall be the cost of such
property" (§ 113 (a)) making "proper adjustment" in
respect of the property "for expenditures, receipts, losses,
or other items, properly chargeable to capital account,"
(§ 113 (b) (1) (A)) except in case of certain gifts, transfers as paid-in surplus, or contributions to capital
(§ 113 (a) (2), (8) (B)), which exceptions we will later
consider.
It will be seen that the rule applicable to most business property of a cost basis properly adjusted leaves
many problems of depreciation accounting to be answered by sound and fair tax administration. The end
and purpose of it all is to approximate and reflect the
financial consequences to the taxpayer of the subtle effects of time and use on the value of his capital assets..
For this purpose it is sound accounting practice annually
to accrue as to each classification of depreciable property
an amount which at the time it is retired will with its
salvage value replace the original investment therein.
Or as a layman might put it, the machine in its life
-time must pay for itself before it can be said to pay
anything to its owner. Experience and judgment hit
upon usable mortality tables for classes of property from
which annual rates of accrual are estimated and several
different methods are employed for relating this physical
deterioration and functional obsolescence to financial
statements. The calculation is influenced by too many
I Revenue Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1648.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

variables to be standardized for differing enterprises.
assets, conditions, or methods of business. The Congress wisely refrained from formalizing its methods and we
prescribe no over-all rules.
But we think the statutory provision that the "basis
of property shall be the cost of such property" (§ 113 (a))
normally means, and that in this case the Commissioner
was justified in applying it to mean, cost to the taxpayer.
A property may have a cost history quite different from
its cost to the taxpayer. It may have been purchased
for less or more than original cost, or built by contract
which called for payments on which the builder profited
greatly or suffered heavy loss. But generally and in this
case the Commissioner was in no error in ruling that the
taxpayer's outlay is the measure of his recoupment through
depreciation accruals.
If this were otherwise in. doubt it would be made clear
by the provisions for "proper adjustment" of cost for
receipts properly chargeable to capital account found in
§ 113 (b) (1) (A). The customer payments so far as in
question found their way into the Company's capital accounts by way of an addition to surplus. Their interdependency with the increases in property accounts caused
by the construction theyinduced justified the Commissioner in relating the one to the other for the purpose
of adjusting the basis for depreciation.
The Company, however, seeks to avoid this result by
the contenticn that what it has obtained are gifts to it
or contributions to its capital of the property paid for
by the customer, and that therefore by the provisions of
§ 113 (a) (2) and (8) (B) it takes the basis of the donor
or transferor. It is enough to say that it overtaxes imagination. to regard the farmers and other customers who
furnished these funds as makers either of donations or
contributions to the Company. The transaction neither
in form nor in substance bore such a semblance.

JONES v. OPELIKA.
98

Syllabus.

The payments were to the customer the price of the
service. The receipts have gone, so far as here involved,
to add to the Company's surplus. They have not been
taxed as income, presumably because it has been thought
to be precluded by this Court's decisions in Edwards v.
Cuba R. Co., 268 U. S. 628, holding that under the circumstances of that case a government subsidy to induce
railroad construction was not income. But it does not
follow that the Company must be permitted to recoup
through untaxed depreciation accruals on investment it
has refused to make. The Commissioner was warranted
in adjusting the depreciation base to represent the taxpayer's net investment. Nothing in the Regulations is
to the contrary and nothing in Helvering v. American
Dental Co., 318 U. S. 322, when read in the context of
its facts touches this problem at all.
Affirmed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
JONES v. OPELIKA.*
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 280, October Term, 1941. Reargued March 10, 11, 1943.Decided May 3, 1943.
Upon rehearing, 318 U. S. 796, the judgments heretofore entered in
these cases, 316 U. S. 584, affirming the judgments of the state
courts, are vacated, and the juidgments of the state courts arc
reversed. P. 104.

242 Ala. 549, 7 So. 2d 503, reversed.
202 Ark. 614, 151 S. W. 2d 1000, reversed.
58 Ariz. 144, 118 P. 2d 97, reversed.
*Together with No. 314, October Term, 1941, Bowden et al. v.
Fort Smith, on writ of certiorari, 315 U. S. 793, to the Supreme Court
of Arkansas, and No. 966, October Term, 1941, Jobin v. Arizona, on
appeal from the Supreme Court of Arizona.

