BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
312

Syllabus.

ceeding, and now advises us of its view that concurrent
jurisdiction can be acquired only by the formal acceptance
prescribed in the Act. These agencies co~perated in developing the Act, and their views are entitled to great
weight in its interpretation. Cf. Bowen v. Johnston, 306
U.S. 19,29-30. Besides, we can think of no other rational
meaning for the phrase "jurisdiction, exclusive or partial"
than that which the administrative construction gives it.
Since the government had not accepted jurisdiction in
the manner required by the Act, the federal court had no
jurisdiction of this proceeding. In this view it is immaterial that Louisiana statutes authorized the government
to take jurisdiction, since at the critical time the jurisdiction had not been taken.'
Our answer to certified question No. 1 is Yes and to
question No. 2 is No.
It is so ordered.
BURFORD ET AL. v. SUN OIL CO. ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 495. Argued February 8, 9, 1943. Reargued April 14, 15, 1943Decided May 24, 1943.
1. Jurisdiction by appeal from a state administrative body can' not
be conferred on the federal District Court by a state statute. P. 317.
2. A federal court having jurisdiction, whether by diversity of citizenship or by federal question, of a suit to enjoin enforcement of an
" Dart's Louisiana Stat. (Supp.) 2898. In view of the general applicability of the 1940 Act, it is unnecessary to consider the effect of the
Weeks Forestry Act, 16 U. S. C. 480, and the Louisiana statute dealing
with jurisdiction in national forests, Dart's Louisiana Stat. 3329, even
though the land involved here was originally acquired for forestry
purposes.
*Together with No. 496, Sun Oil Co. et al. v. Burford ct al., also
on writ of certiorari, 317 U. S. 623, to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit.
531559-44-24

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

administrative order of a state commission, may, in its sound discretion, refuse such relief if to grant it would be prejudicial to the
public interest. P. 317.
3. It is in the public interest that federal courts of equity should

exercise their discretionary power with proper regard for the independence of state governments in carrying out their policies. P. 318.
4. In the exercise of a sound discretion, this suit to enjoin the execution of an order of the State Railroad Commission of Texas, permitting the drilling of wells in the East Texas Oil Field separated by
distances less than the minimum prescribed for the field in general,

should have been dismissed. Pp. 318-332.
130 F. 2d 10, reversed; District Court affirmed.

CERTIoRARI, 317 U. S. 621, to review a judgment reversing a judgment of the District Court which dismissed the
complaint of the Sun Oil Company in a suit against the
Railroad Commission of Texas et al., to enjoin the execution of an order of the Commission permitting the drilling
and operation of certain oil wells in the East Texas Oil
Field, and also dismissing the complaint of the Magnolia
Petroleum Company, Intervener. The judgment of the
District Court had at first been affirmed, 124 F. 2d 467.
Messrs. James P. Hart and Ed Roy Simmons, Assistant
Attorney General of Texas, with whom Mr. Gerald C.
Mann, Attorney General, was on the brief, for petitioners
in No. 495 and respondents in No. 496.
Mr. J. A. Rauhut argued the cause on the original argument for the Sun Oil Co. and on the reargument for the
Sun Oil Co. et al.; Mr. J. B. Robertson argued the cause
on the original argument for the Magnolia Petroleum Co.,
and was on the briefs with Mr. Rauhut for respondents in
No. 495 and petitioners in No. 496.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this proceeding brought in a federal district court,
the Sun Oil Co. attacked the validity of an order of the

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

Texas Railroad Commission granting the petitioner Burford a permit to drill four wells on a small plot of land
in the East Texas oil field.' Jurisdiction of the federal
court was invoked because of the diversity of citizenship
of the parties, and because of the Companies' contention
that the order denied them due process of law. There is
some argument that the action is an "appeal" from the
State Commission to the federal court, since an appeal to
a state court can be taken under relevant Texas statutes; 2
but of course the Texas legislature may not make a federal
district court, a court of original jurisdiction, into an
appellate tribunal or otherwise expand its jurisdiction,'
and the Circuit Court of Appeals in its decision correctly
viewed this as a simple proceeding in equity to enjoin the
enforcement of the Commission's order.
Although a federal equity court does have jurisdiction
of a particular proceeding, it may, in its sound discretion,
whether its jurisdiction is invoked on the ground of diIThe Magnolia Petroleum Co. was permitted to intervene with a
similar complaint against the validity of the order. The parties defendant include Burford; Burford's assignee, the X Y Z Oil and Gas
Co.; and the Commission. Hereafter the original plaintiffs will be referred to as the Companies and the defendants will be referred to as
Burford or as the Commission. The case is here on a petition for
certiorari by the Commission and on a cross-petition for certiorari by
the Companies.
2 For a description of the nature of the so-called "appeal," see Stanolind Oil & Gas Co. v. Midas Oil Co., 123 S. W. 2d 911, 913; Gulf Land
Co. v. Atlantic Refining Co., 134 Texas 59, 73, 131 S. W. 2d 73.
8See the discussion in the opinion below, 130 F. 2d 10, 17; cf. Tennessee Coal Co. v. George, 233 U. S. 354, 359, 360 and Texas Pipe Line
v. Ware, 15 F. 2d 171. A statute similar to that involved in the instant
case, which permits suit in any competent court of Travis County,
Texas, has been construed to be an expression by the State of willingness to allow these proceedings to be brought in a federal court, Reagan
v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 392. Since federal equity
jurisdiction depends on federal statutes, the Texas statutory provision has little meaning as applied to such cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

versity of citizenship or otherwise, "refuse to enforce or
protect legal rights, the exercise of which may be prejudicial to the public interest";' for it "is in the public interest that federal courts of equity should exercise their
discretionary power with proper regard for the rightful
independence of state governments in carrying out their
domestic policy." I While many other questions are
argued, we find it necessary to decide only one: Assuming that the federal district court had jurisdiction, should
it, as a matter of sound equitable discretion, have declined to exercise that jurisdiction here?
The order under consideration is part of the general
regulatory system devised for the conservation of oil and
gas in Texas, an aspect of "as thorny a problem as has
challenged the ingenuity and wisdom of legislatures."
Railroad Commission v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co., 310
U. S. 573, 579. The East Texas field, in which the Burford tract is located, is one of the largest in the United
States. It is approximately forty miles long and between
five and nine miles wide, and over 26,000 wells have been
drilled in it.' Oil exists in the pores and crevices of rocks
and sand and moves through these channels. A large
area of this sort is called a pool or reservoir and the East
'United States v. Dern, 289 U. S. 352, 360.
Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 185.

"Reluctance there

has been to use the process of federal courts in restraint of state officials though the rights asserted by*the complainants are strictly federal in origin. . . . There must be reluctance even greater when the
rights are strictly local, jurisdiction having no other basis than the
accidents of residence."

Hawks v. Hamill, 288 U. S. 52, 61.

For a description of the East Texas field see Railroad Commission
v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co., 311 U. S. 570, 574; Tucker, Today's
East Texas Problems Analyzed in Survey of Field, Oil and Gas Journal, April 1, 1937, p. 10; Weber, East Texas As It Is Today, Oil and
Gas Journal, April 27, 1939, p. 12. The latter article includes a map
of the area showing various developments in the field. For a simple
outline map, see 1941 Annual Report, Oil & Gas Division, Texas Rail0

road Commission, p. 34.

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

Texas field is a giant pool. The chief forces causing oil
to move are gas and water, and it is essential that the
pressures be maintained at a level which will force the
oil through wells to the surface. As the gas pressure is
dissipated, it becomes necessary to put the well "on the
pump" at great expense;" and the sooner the gas from a
field is exhausted, the more oil is irretrievably lost.
Since the oil moves through the entire field, one operator
can not only draw the oil from under his own surface area,
but can also, if he is advantageously located, drain oil
from the most distant parts of the reservoir. The practice of attempting to drain oil from under the surface holdings of others leads to offset wells and other wasteful practices; and this problem is increased by the fact that the
surface rights are split up into many small tracts.' There
are approximately nine hundred operators in the East
Texas field alone.
For these and many other reasons based on geologic
realities, each oil and gas field must be regulated as a unit
for conservation purposes. Compare Railroad Commission v. Rowan & Nichols Co., 311 U. S. 570, 574. The
federal government, for the present at least, has chosen
to leave the principal regulatory responsibility with the
States, but does supplement state control.' While there is
no question of the constitutional power of the State to
take appropriate action to protect the industry and proI Geological factors making for the necessity of pumping are described in Ely, The Conservation of Oil, 51 Harv. L. Rev. 1209, 1220.
The relation of natural gas to oil production is described in Miller,
Function of Natural Gas in the Production of Oil.
8 Wells in the East Texas field considered unnecessary from the enFor a
gineering standpoint are said to have cost $160,000,000.
discussion of this superfluous well problem, see Ely, The Conservation of Oil, supra, 1232. In 1941 there were 910 operators in the East
Texas field. 1941 Railroad Commission Report, supra, 208.
0 15 U. S. C. § 715, Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388;
note 12, infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

tect the public interest, Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S.
190; Champlin Refining Co. v. Commission, 286 U. S. 210,

the state's attempts to control the flow of oil and at the
same time protect the interest of the many operators have

from time to time been entangled in geological-legal
problems of novel nature.
Texas' interests in this matter are more than that very
large one of conserving gas and oil, two of our most important natural resources. It must also weigh the impact
of the industry on the whole economy of the State and
must consider its revenue, much of which is drawn from
taxes on the industry and from mineral lands preserved
for the benefit of its educational and eleemosynary institutions." To prevent "past, present, and imminent
evils" in the production of natural gas, a statute was enacted "for the protection of public and private interests
against such evils by prohibiting waste and compelling
ratable production." The primary task of attempting adjustment of these diverse interests is delegated to th Railroad Commission, which Texas has vested with "broad
discretion" in administering the law. 1
The Commission, in co~peration with other oil producing States, has accepted state oil production quotas and has
undertaken to translate the amount to be produced for the
State as a whole into a specific amount for each field and
for each well.1 These judgments are made with due relo The problem of gaining an adequate revenue from the petroleum
industry was particularly serious in Texas during the period 1930-35.

The question was discussed by Governor Sterling in messages to the
legislature in 1931, 1932, and 1933, and by Governor Allred in 1935.
See The Texas Senate Journal, Jan. 13-May 23, 1931, p. 526; ibid.,
July-August, 1931, p. 594; ibid., September-October, 1931, p. 164;
ibid., August-September, 1932, p. 60; ibid., Reg. Sess., 1933, pp. 20,

24; ibid., Reg. Sess., 1935, pp. 587, 589-90.
"Vernon's Texas Stat. (1936), Art. 6008, §§ 1, 22.

For description of the methods of regulation of the oil industry,
see Marshall and Meyers, Legal Planning of Petroleum Production,
12

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

321

Opinion. of the Court.

gard for the factors of full utilization of the oil supply,
market demand, and protection of the individual operators, as well as protection of the public interest. As an
essential aspect of the control program, the State also
regulates the spacing of wells. The legislature has disavowed a purpose of requiring that "the separately owned
properties in any pool [should] be unitized under one management, control or ownership" 13 and the Commission
41 Yale L. Jour. 33; Marshall and Meyers, Legal Planning of Petroleum Production: Two Years of Proration, 42 Yale L. Jour. 702; Ely,
The Conservation of Oil, 51 Harv. L. Rev. 1209; Hardwicke, Legal
History of Conservation of Oil in Texas, in The American Bar Association's publication, Legal History of Conservation of Oil and Gas, 214;
Walker, The Problem of the Small Tract Under Spacing Regulations,
17 Tex. L. Rev. (Appendix) 157; Summers, Oil Production Regulation-Due Process, 19 Texas L. Rev. 1; Davis, Judicial Emasculation
of Administrative Action, 19 Tex. L. Rev. 29. The Interstate Oil
Compact Commission is described in its own publication, The Interstate Compact to Conserve Oil and Gas (1942), published over the
signature of Governor Phillips of Oklahoma. Federal wartime regulations concerning the drilling of wells have been issued by the Petroleum
Administration for War. See Conservation Order M-68 as amended,
8 Fed. Reg. 3955, discussed in 10 George Washington L. Rev. 926.
The Commission has described its own regulatory program as
follows:
"The Railroad Commission of Texas carries out its functions of production control or proration by an elaborate system of orders, schedules, and reports. In order to keep the production of oil for the State
during any period within the limits of a predetermined figure, the Commission sets by order the maximum allowable production for the
State. This total allowable is then distributed among the various
fields, and the allowable for each field in turn is allocated among the
compoaent properties so that the Commission, under this process,
fixes the daily allowable for each well during the effective period of
each allowable order. After these calculations have been made, a
schedule of these allowables is prepared, printed, and mailed to each
operator so that he may know how much oil may be produced from
each of his leases during the month." 1939 Annual Report of the Oil
and Gas Division, Texas Railroad Commission, p. 9.
is Vernon's Texas Stat. (1936), Art. 6014-g.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

must thus work out the difficult spacing problem with due
regard for whatever rights Texas recognizes in the separate
owners to a share of the common reservoir. At the same
time it must restrain waste, whether by excessive production or by the unwise dissipation of the gas and other geologic factors that cause the oil to flow.
Siiice 1919 the Commission has attempted to solve this
problem by its Rule 37. The rule provides for certain
minimum spacing between wells, but also allows exceptions where necessary "to prevent waste or to prevent the
confiscation of property." The prevention of confiscation is based on the premises that, insofar as these privileges are compatible with the prevention of waste and. the
achievement of conservation, each surface owner should
be permitted to withdraw the oil under his surface area,
and that no one else can fairly be permitted to drain his
oil away. Hence the Commission may protect his interest either by adjusting his amount of production upward,
or by permitting him to drill additional wells. "By this
method each person will be entitled to recover a quantity
of oil and gas substantially equivalent in amount to the
recoverable oil and gas under his land." 1
Additional wells may be required to prevent waste as
has been noticed, where geologic circumstances require immediate drilling: "The term 'waste,' as used in oil and gas
Rule 37, undoubtedly means the ultimate loss of oil. If
a substantial amount of oil will be saved by the drilling of
a well that otherwise would ultimately be lost, the permit
to drill such well may be justified under one of the exceptions provided in Rule 37 to prevent waste." Gulf Land
14 Brown v. Humble Oil Co., 126 Tex. 296, 312, 83 S. W. 2d 935, 87
S. W. 2d 1069. This principle is a limitation upon the so-called "Rule
of Capture" under which the surface owner is entitled not only to the
amount of oil under his land but to all other oil which he can drain
from under his neighbor's land to his own. The rule of capture is
discussed by Ely, supra, note 12, at 1218.

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Atlantic Refining Co., 134 Tex. 59, 70, 131 S. W.
2d 73.
The delusive simplicity with which these principles of
exception to Rule 37 can be stated should not obscure the
actual non-legal complexities involved in their application.15 -While the surface holder may, subject to qualifications noted, be entitled under current Texas law to the oil
under his land, there can be no absolute certainty as to
how much oil actually is present, Railroad Commission v.
Rowan & Nichols Co., 311 U. S. 570, 576, and since the
waste and confiscation problems are as a matter of physical necessity so closely interrelated, decision of one of the
questions necessarily involves recognition of the other."
1

"We believe it would be impossible for the Legislature to lay down
a definite standard by which it could be determined correctly just
when and under what conditions an oil producing area should be
divided into drilling units and what size and shape the units should
be. . . . In performing its functions as a fact-finding body, the Corporation Commission is empowered ... to take evidence upon all
these subjects and others found by scientific investigation and research
to have a bearing upon securing the greatest possible recovery from
the common source of supply, and by application of the principles of
physics, chemistry, geology, and mathematics, can determine by certain calculations at what intervals of space wells should be located in
order to bring about such recovery and thus prevent waste and also
protect the correlative rights of all the owners of interests therein."
Patterson v. Stanolind Oil & Gas Co., 182 Okla. 155, 161, 162, 77
P. 2d 83.
16 In DancigerOil & Refining Co. v. Railroad Commission, 49 S. W.
2d 837, 842, the court describes the geological phenomena which are
the basis of the rules of law dealing with leaseholders who, through full
utilization of their own tracts, might cause waste for others, and continues: "No particular lease or well can therefore be taken as a unit,
but must be considered in its relation to adjacent leases or wells, with
a view to conserving the whole, and is subject to regulation
accordingly."
The well spacing program and the proration program can not be considered separately; "the two are a part of a single integrated system
and must be considered together." Davis, note 12, supra, at 55. For

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S

The sheer quantity of exception cases makes their disposition of great public importance. It is estimated that over
two-thirds of the wells in the East Texas field exist as
exceptions to the rule, and since each exception may provoke a conflict among the interested parties, the volume
of litigation arising from the administration of the rule is
considerable.1" The instant case arises from just such an
exception. It is not peculiar that the State should be
represented here by its Attorney General, for cases like
this, involving "confiscation," are not mere isolated disputes between private parties. Aside from the general
principles which may evolve from these proceedings, the
physical facts are such that an additional permit may
affect pressure on a well miles away. The standards applied by the Commission in a given case necessarily affect
the entire state conservation system. Of.far more importance than any other private interest is the fact that the
over-all plan of regulation, as well as each of its case by
case manifestations, is of vital interest to the general public which must be assured that the speculative interests
of individual tract owners will be put aside when necessary to prevent the irretrievable loss of oil in other parts
of the field. The Commission in applying the statutory
standards of course considers the Rule 37 cases as a part
a discussion of the interrelation of spacing and proration, see Ely,
supra, note 12, at 1229. Because of the economic consequences of
granting exceptions under Rule 37, the Commission must be given fair
latitude to exercise "sound judgment and discretion." Gulf Land Co.
v. Atlantic Refining Co., 134 Tex. 59, 79, 131 S. W. 2d 73. And because of the difficulties of decision, the Commission must be allowed
a "reasonable margin for error." RailroadCommission v. Shell Oil Co.,
139 Tex. 66, 75, 161 S. W. 2d 1022.
17 The Commission dealt with approximately sixty Rule 37 cases,
including this one, in one or another court in 1941. Annual Report of
the Railroad Commission of Texas, 1941, pp. 15-26. Ely, supra, note
12, 1230, estimates that 17,000 wells in the East Texas field are operated under exception permits.

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

of the entire conservation program with implications to
the whole economy of the State.18
With full knowledge of the importance of the decisions
of the Railroad Commission both to the State and to the
oil operators, the Texas legislature has established a system of thorough judicial review by its own state courts.
The Commission orders may be appealed to a state district
court in Travis County, and are reviewed by a branch of
the Court of Civil Appeals and by the State Supreme
Court. 9 While the constitutional power of the Commission to enforce Rule 37 or to make exceptions to it is seldom seriously challenged, Brown v. Humble Oil Co., 126
Tex. 296, 307, 83 S. W. 2d 935, 87 S. W. 2d 1069, the validity of particular orders from the standpoint of statutory
interpretation may present a serious problem, and a substantial number of such cases have been disposed of by
the Texas courts which alone have the power to give definite answers to the questions of state law posed in these
proceedings.
In describing the relation of the Texas court to the Commission, no useful purpose will be served by attempting
to label the court's position as legislative, Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210; Keller v. PotomacElectric
Co., 261 U. S. 428, or judicial, Bacon v. Rutland R. Co., 232
18

"The Commission is charged generally with the conservation of

oil and gas in their production, storage, transportation. .

.

. The

Commission must make rules, regulations, and orders to acc6mplish
conservation of oil and gas.. . . One of the things that the Commission must do to conserve oil and gas is to see that oil and gas
fields are drilled in an orderly and scientific manner. In order to
accomplish orderly drilling, the Commission has simply promulgated
a rule fixing minimum spacing distances at which wells may be drilled
without application, notice, or hearing. Anyone desiring to drill a well
at a lesser distance must secure a special permit, after notice and hearing." Gulf Land Co. v. Atlantic Refining Co., 134 Tex. 59,69, 131 S. W.
2d 73.
19 Veron's Texas Stat. (1936), Art. 6049c, § 8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

U. S. 134-suffice it to say that the Texas courts are working partners with the Railroad Commission in the business
of creating a regulatory system for the oil industry. The
Commission is charged with principal responsibility for
fact finding and for policy making and the courts expressly
disclaim the administrative responsibility; Gulf Land Co.
v. Atlantic Refining Co., 134 Tex. 59, 131 S. W. 2d 73, but
on the other hand, the orders of the Commission are tested
for "reasonableness" by trial de novo before the court,
Railroad Commission v. Shell Oil Co., 139 Tex. 66, 76-80,
161 S. W. 2d 1022, and the court may on occasion make a
careful analysis of all the facts of the case in reversing
a Commission order. Railroad Commission v. Gulf Production Co., 134 Tex. 122, 132 S. W. 2d 254. The court
has fully as much power as the Commission to determine
particular cases, since after trial de novo it can either
restrain the leaseholder from proceeding to drill, or, if
the case is appropriate, can restrain the Commission from
interfering with the leaseholder. The court may even
formulate new standards for the Commission's administrative practice and suggest that the Commission adopt
them. Thus, in the Shell Oil case, supra, at 73, the court
took the responsibility of "laying down some standard to
guide the Commission in the exercise of its discretion" in
Rule 37 cases; and in Brown v. Humble Oil Co., supra,312,
the court explicitly suggested a revision in Rule 37.
To prevent the confusion of multiple review of the same
general issues, the legislature provided for concentration
of all direct review of the Commission's orders in the state
district courts of Travis County. The Texas courts have
authoritatively declared the purpose of this restriction:
"If an order of the commission, lawful on its face, can be
collaterally attacked in the various courts and counties of
the state on grounds such as those urged in the instant
case, interminable confusion would result." Texas Steel
Co. v. Fort Worth & D. C. Ry. Co., 120 Tex. 597, 604, 40

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

S. W. 2d 78. To permit various state courts to pass upon
the Commission's rules and orders, "would lead to intolerable confusion. If all district courts of this State had
jurisdiction of such matters, different courts of equal dignity might reach different and conflicting conclusions as
to the same rule. Manifestly, the jurisdictional provision
under discussion was incorporated in the act for the express purpose of avoiding such confusion." Alpha Petroleum Co. v. Terrell, 122 Tex. 257, 273, 59 S. W. 2d 364, 372.
Time and experience, say the Texas courts, have shown
the wisdom of this rule."0 Concentration of judicial supervision of Railroad Commission orders permits the state
courts, like the Railroad Connission itself, to acquire a
specialized knowledge which is useful in shaping the policy
of regulation of the ever-changing demands in this field.
At the present time, less than ten per cent of these cases
come before the federal district court. 1
The very "confusion" which the Texas legislature and
Supreme Court feared might result from review by many
state courts of the Railroad Commission's orders has resulted from the exercise of federal equity jurisdiction.
As a practical matter, the federal courts can make small
contribution to the well organized system of regulation
and review which the Texas statutes provide. Texas
courts can give fully as great relief, including temporary
restraining orders, as the federal courts. Delay, misunderstanding of local law, and needless federal conflict with
the state policy, are the inevitable product of this double
system of review. The most striking example of misunderstanding has come where the federal court has flatly
disagreed with the position later taken by a state court
as to state law. See MacMillan v. Railroad Commission,
20

West Texas Compress Co. v. Panhandle & S. F. Ry. Co., 15 S. W.

2d 558, 561.

n Summary of Litigation, Annual Report of the Oil and Gas Division,
Railroad Commission of Texas, 1941, 15 et seq.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S

51 F. 2d 400, 287 U. S. 576, and Danciger Oil & Refining
Co. v. Railroad Commission, 49 S. W. 2d 837; 122 Tex.
243, 56 S. W. 2d 1075. In those cases, the federal court
attributed a given meaning to the state statute which
went to the heart of the control program. The Court of
Civil Appeals disagreed, but before ultimate review could
be had either in Texas or here, the legislature amended its
statutes so that the cases became moot. Had the Texas
Civil Appeals decision come first, it would have been unnecessary to make the changes which were made in an effort to stay within the limit thought by the Governor of
Texas to have been set by the tone of the federal court's
opinion.22 The Texas legislature later changed the law
back to its original state, as clear an example of waste motion as can be imagined.2
The federal court has been
called upon constantly to determine whether the Railroad Commission has acted within the scope of statutory
authority, while the important constitutional issues have,
as the federal court has repeatedly said, been fairly well
settled from the beginning.
22

Inhis message of August 3, 1931, to the Texas legislature, concerning the MacMillan decision, Governor Sterling said: "At the
time the opinion was written, the court, knowing that the Legislature was in session, it may reasonably be assumed that if the court
had thought the laws were invalid, would have held so as to give this
Legislature an opportunity to eliminate and correct any cause for

invalidity. The court having failed to do this, we are justified in
assuming that our existing conservation laws are valid. . . . It appeals to me, in view of this decision of the United States Court, that
it would be unwise to attempt radical changes in our existing laws.
Any attempt at their amendment or modification should retain their
general structure and ideas, and not inject changes that would invite
any new attacks upon them." Texas Senate Journal, July-August,
1931, p. 594.
- Hardwicke, 8upra, note 12, 230-239.
2 In 1936, in an action to restrain the enforcement by the State
Commission of an order limiting the production of gas, the federal

court said: "This controversy has been long drawn out. In varying

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

These federal court decisions on state law have created a
constant task for the Texas Governor, the Texas legislature, and the Railroad Commission. The Governor of
Texas, as has been noted above, felt called upon to forge
his oil program in the light of the remotest inferences of
federal court opinions. In one instance he thought it
necessary to declare martial law." Special sessions of the
legislature have been occupied with consideration of federal court decisions.2 Legislation passed under the cirforms, under different statutes, but always to the same purport and
effect as to these complainants, order after order has been drawn, enjoined, and drawn again. This is the fifth time this court has written. Texoma Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 59 F. 2d 750;
Texoma Natural Gas Co. v. Terrell, 2 F. Supp. 168; Canadian River
Gas Co. v. Terrell, 4 F. Supp. 222; Texas Panhandle Gas Co. v.
Thompson, 12 F. Supp. 462." Consolidated Gas Utilities Corp. v.
Thompson, 14 F. Supp. 318, 328.
In summarizing litigation prior to 1934, the federal court said:
"In not a single one of thes6 cases did we find the statute unreasonable or invalid. In not a single one did we find the orders invalid
because, though complying with the statute, they violated the Constitution. In each of the cases in which injunctions issued we made
it clear it was because we thought the orders had been entered in the
teeth of statutes forbidding the commission's doing what it attempted to do:" Amazon Petroleum Corp. v. Railroad Commission,
5 F. Supp. 633, 635.
For a survey of litigious history of the East Texas field, see Hardwicke and Davis, note 12, supra.
25 For a discussion of the martial law interlude, see Sterling v. Canstantin, 287 U. S. 378; Hardwicke, supra,note 12, 233-236.
26 The special session of July and August, 1931, was in session when
MacMillan v. RailroadCommission was decided, and, as has been noted
above, the MacMillan case provided the special session with the bulk
of its business. Peoples' Petroleum Producersv. Smith, 1 F. Supp. 361,
was the cause of the special session of November, 1932. In his introductory message to the special session, Governor Sterling said: "Most
assuredly, I would not, at this time, have called you into extraordinary
session except I believe a grave crisis again confronts the State and our
people, on account of the federal court having held that the Railroad
Commission has gone beyond the authority given in this statute enacted

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

cumstances of the strain and doubt created by these
decisions was necessarily unsatisfactory.27 The Railroad
Commission has had to adjust itself to the permutations
of the law as seen by the federal courts. The most recent
example was in connection with the Rowan & Nichols case,
in which the Commission felt compelled to adopt a new
proration scheme to comply with the demands of a federal court decision which was reversed when it came to
this Court. 311 U. S. 570, 572.
at that time in promulgating their orders as to proration and conservation of oil and gas. . . . It is apparent that [as a result of the
decision] the state's greatest natural resource-oil and gas-will be
wasted and destroyed, resulting in a tremendous financial injury to the
State, especially to the taxpayers and the public schools. It is apparent to me that under such conditions, the state's income, as a result of
the gross production tax on oil, will be reduced from approximately
$16,000 a day to a few thousand dollars per day, thus depriving the
State of a tremendous amount of revenue." Texas Senate Journal,
Nov. 1932, pp. 3, 4.
2 Consider for example the plight of the state authorities during the
period in which the federal court found it necessary to reject the Commission's expert testimony on a basic matter of policy as "largely theory
and speculation" in the MacMillan case, supra, similar testimony was
accepted by the state court in the Dancigercase, supra, and like testimony was in turn accepted by the federal court in Amazon Petroleum
Corp. v. RailroadCommission, 5 F. Supp. 633.
Governor Allred in his message of Jan. 16, 1935, recommended to the
legislature that it revise the conservation laws generally. He said,
"Much of the trouble of the oil industry and the official life charged
with its regulation has been due to misunderstandings, misinformation,
and ill-considered criticism by those either unfamiliar or unconcerned
with the magnitude or proper solution of its problems or the practical
difficulties confronting our public officials in this new and unexplored
field of regulation. In the past, not a little of our difficulties has been
due to the fact that laws dealing with the production of oil and gas,
as well as the rules and regulations of the conservation commission
passed thereunder, have been enacted under high pressure at a time
when, figuratively speaking, the 'House was on fire.'" Texas Sen. Journal, Reg. Sess. 1935, 84, 89.

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

As has been noted, the federal court cases have dealt
primarily with the interpretation of state law, some'of it
state law fairly remote from oil and gas problems. The
instant case raised a number of problems of no general
significance on which a federal court can only try to ascertain state law.'
For example, we are asked to determine whether a previous Travis county district court decision makes this case res adjudicata and whether another
case pending in Travis county deprived the Commission
of jurisdiction to consider Burford's application. The existence of these problems throughout the oil regulatory
field creates a further possibility of serious delay which
can injure the conservation program, for under our decision in Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S.
496, it may be necessary to stay federal action pending
authoritative determination of the difficult state questions.
The conflict between federal courts and Texas has lessened appreciably in recent years primarily as a result of
the decisions in the Rowan & Nichols case. 310 U. S.
28

The company presses upon us as significant in the determination of

its rights the following four questions of state law:
(1) Burford's 2.33 acres were voluntarily subdivided from a larger
portion and therefore the State Commission under the state law has
no authority to permit an exception to prevent confiscation.

(2) "As a matter of state law, under the undisputed evidence, the
judgment . .. is res adjudicata."

(3) The pendency of a related cause in the state courts, "under the
law of the State ... deprived the Railroad Commission pendente lite
of jurisdiction."
(4) "The granting of four locations [was] without authority in
the state law" and was arbitrary.
To determine the validity of these assertions, presenting obviously
difficult problems of state law, we are asked by the company to analyze
at least fifty Texas decisions.

If the federal court misinterprets only

one of these decisions, we shall have provoked a needless conflict with
the Texas courts.
5a 559-44--2

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

573; 311 U. S. 614; 311 U. S. 570. In those cases we assumed that the principal issue in the review of Railroad
Commission orders was whether the Commission had confined itself within the boundaries of due process of law,
and held that any special relief provided by state statutes
must be pursued in a state court. It is now argued that
under the decision of the Texas Supreme Court in Railroad Commission v. Shell Oil Co., 139 Tex. 66, 161 S.W.
2d 1022, the courts, whether federal or state, are required
to review the Commission's order not for constitutional
validity, but for compliance with a standard of "reasonableness" under the state statute which, it is said, is different from the constitutional standard of due process.
The whole cycle of federal-state conflict cannot be permitted to begin again by acceptance of this view. Insofar as we have discretion to do so, we should leave these
problems of Texas law to the state court where each may
be handled as "one more item in a continuous series of
adjustments." Rowan & Nichols, supra, 310 U. S. at
584.
These questions of regulation of the industry by the
state administrative agency, whether involving gas or oil
prorationing programs or Rule 37 cases, so clearly involves
basic problems of Texas policy that equitable discretion
should be exercised to give the Texas courts the first opportunity to consider them. "Few public interests have a
higher claim upon the discretion of a federal chancellor
than the avoidance of needless friction with state policies, . . . These cases reflect a doctrine of abstention appropriate to our federal system whereby the federal courts,
'exercising a wise discretion,' restrain their authority because of 'scrupulous regard for the rightful independence
of the state governments' and for the smooth working
of the federal judiciary . . . This use of equitable powers is a contribution of the courts in furthering the harmonious relation between state and federal authority
without the need of rigorous congressional restriction of

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

333

Opinion of the Court.

those powers." Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co.,
supra, 500, 501.9
The State provides a unified method for the formation
of policy and determination of cases by the Commission
209Equity's discretion to decline to exercise its jurisdiction may be
applied when judicial restraint seems required by considerations of
general welfare. "Courts of equity may, and frequently do, go much
farther both to give and withhold relief in furtherance of the public
interest than they are accustomed to go when only private interests are
involved." Virginian Ry. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515, 552.
It is particularly desirable to decline to exercise equity jurisdiction when
the result is to permit a state court to have an opportunity to determine questions of state law which may prevent the necessity of decision
on a constitutional question, Chicago v. Fieldcrest Dairies, 316 U. S.
168, 173. Equity relief may be withheld where the state remedy is adequate, Atlas Life Ins. Co. v. W. I. Southern, Inc., 306 U. S. 563, or if a
federal court is asked to review the proceedings of a federal agency by
injunction, where an adequate statutory method of review has been
provided, Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 41. In
recent years, this Court has refused to permit the exercise of federal
equity jurisdiction to enjoin the enforcement of state criminal statutes,
Beal v. Missouri Pacific R. Corp., 312 U. S. 45; Watson v. Buck, 313
U. S. 387; Douglas v. Jeannette, ante, p. 157. We have refused to permit injunctions to interfere with the collection of state taxes, California
v. Latimer, 305 U. S. 255; Kohn'v. CentralDistributingCo., 306 U. S.
531; and see 28 U. S. C. § 41. We have held that an equity court "may
in its discretion in the exercise of the jurisdiction committed to it grant
or deny relief upon performance of a condition which will safeguard
the public interest." Securities & Exchange Comm'n v. United States
Realty Co., 310 U. S. 434, 455; American United Mutual Life Ins. Co.
v. Avon Park, 311 U. S. 138, 145. Equity in its discretion may decline
to aid a utility which seeks to prevent a public service commission from
making an investigation which is at least arguably within its power,
Petroleum Exploration v. Public Service Comm'n, 304 U. S.209; or a
railroad which has an adequate form of state relief, Illinois Commerce
Comm'n v. Thomson, 318 U. S.675. Equity may impose terms and
conditions upon the party at whose instance it proposes to act and
"the power to impose such conditions is founded upon, and arises from,
the discretion which the court has in such cases, to grant, or not to
grant, the injunction applied for." Inland Steel Co. v. United States,
306 U. S. 153, 156.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DOUGLAS,

J.,

concurring.

319 U. S.

and by the state courts. The judicial review of the Commission's decisions in the state courts is expeditious and
adequate. Conflicts in the interpretation of state law,
dangerous to-the success of state policies, are almost ceitain to result from the intervention of the lower federal
courts. On the other hand, if the state procedure is followed from the Commission to theState Supreme Court,
ultimate review of the federal questions is fully preserved
here. Cf. Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521. Under such
circumstances, a sound respect for the independence of
state action requires the federal equity court to stay its
hand.
The decision of the Circuit Court of appeals is reversed
and the judgment of the District Court dismissing the
complaint is affirmed for the reasons here stated.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAs, concurring:

I agree with the opinion of the Court and join in it.
But there are observations in the dissenting opinion which
impel me to add a few words. If the issues in this case
were framed as the dissenting opinion frames them, I
would agree that we should reach the merits and not direct
a dismissal of the complaint. But the opinion of the
Court as I read it does not hold or even fairly imply that
"the enforcement of state rights created by state legislation and affecting state policies is limited to the state
courts." Any such holding would result in a drastic inroad on diversity jurisdiction-a limitation which I agree
might be desirable but which Congress, not this Court,
should make. The holding in these cases, however, goes
to no such length.
This decision is but an application of the principle expressed in Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 185,
that-"federal courts of equity should exercise their discre,ionary power with proper -regard for the rightful inde-

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

335

DoucLAs, J., concurring.

pendence of state governments in carrying out their
domestic policy." That case, like the present one, was in
the federal court by the diversity of citizenship route.
It involved a receivership of an insolvent Pennsylvania
corporation. Though the federal proceeding was first in
time, this Court held that the federal court should stay
its hand and turn over the assets of the corporation to the
state administrative agency charged by state law with the
responsibility of supervision and liquidation. In that case
federal action would have preempted the field and excluded the assertion of state authority. In these cases the
result of federal action would be potentially much more
serious in terms of federal-state relations, as the opinion
of the Court makes plain.
The Texas statute which governs suits to set aside these
orders of the Railroad Commission has been construed by
the Texas courts to give to the supervising courts a large
measure of control over the administrative process. That
control is much greater, for example, than the control exercised by federal Circuit Courts of Appeals over the orders
of such agencies as the National Labor Relations Board.
The opinion of the Court calls the Railroad Commission
an d the Texas courts "working partners." But as its review of Texas decisions shows, the courts may at times be
the senior and dominant member of that partnership if
they perform the functions which Texas law places on
them. The courts do not sit merely to enforce rights
based on orders of the state administrative agency. They
sit in judgment on that agency. That, to me, is the crux
of the matter. If the federal courts undertook to sit in
review, so to speak, of this state administrative agency,
they would in effect actively participate in the fashioning
of the state's domestic policy. That interference would be
a continuing one, as the opinion of the Court points out.
Moreover, divided authority would result. Divided authority breeds friction-friction potentially more serious

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FKxF U TR, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

than would have obtained in Pennsylvaniav. Williams, if
the administration of the affairs of that insolvent corporation had been left in the federal court to the exclusion of
the state administrative agency.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

joins in this opinion.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, dissenting:
To deny a suitor access to a federal district court under
the circumstances of this case is to disregard a duty enjoined by Congress and made manifest by the whole history
of the jurisdiction of the United States courts based upon
diversity of citizenship between parties. For I am assuming that law declared by this Court, in contradistinction to
law declared by Congress, is something other than the
manipulation of words to formulate a predetermined result. Judicial law to me implies at least some continuity
of intellectual criteria and procedures in dealing with
recurring problems.
I believe it to be wholly accurate to say that throughout
our history it has never been questioned that a right created by state law and enforceable in the state courts can
also be enforced in the federal courts where the parties to
the controversy are citizens of different states. The
reasons which led Congress to grant such jurisdiction to the
federal courts are familiar. It was believed that, consciously or otherwise, the courts of a state may favor their
own citizens. Bias against outsiders may become embedded in a judgment of a state court and yet not be sufficiently apparent to be made the basis of a federal claim.
To avoid possible discriminations of this sort, so the theory
goes, a citizen of a state other than that in which he is
suing or being sued ought to be able to go into a wholly
impartial tribunal, namely, the federal court sitting in that
state. Thus, the basic premise of federal jurisdiction
based upon diversity of the parties' citizenship is that the
federal courts should afford remedies which are coextensive

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

F1t

'AUrmTE,
J., dissenting.

with rights created by state law and enforceable in state
courts.
That is the theory of diversity jurisdiction. Whether
it is a sound theory, whether diversity jurisdiction is necessary or desirable in order to avoid possible unfairness by
state courts, state judges and juries, against outsiders,
whether the federal courts ought to be relieved of the
burden of diversity litigation,-these are matters which
are not my concern as a judge. They are the concern of
those whose business it is to legislate, not mine. I speak
as one who has long favored the entire abolition of diversity jurisdiction. See 13 Cornell L. Q. 499, 520 et seq.
But I must decide this case as a judge and not as a legislative reformer.
Aside from the Johnson Act of May 14, 1934, 48 Stat.
775,1 the many powerful and persistent legislative efforts

to abolish or restrict diversity jurisdiction have ever since
the Civil War been rejected by Congress. Again and
again legislation designed to make inroads upon diversity
jurisdiction has been proposed to Congress, and on each
occasion Congress has deliberately refused to act. See,
for example, the recent efforts to restrict diversity jurisdiction which were provoked by the Black & White Taxicab decision, 276 U. S. 518; Sen. Rep. No. 626, 70th Cong.,
1st Sess.; Sen. Rep. No. 691, 71st Cong., 2d Sess.; Sen. Rep.
No. 530 and Sen. Rep. No. 701, 72d Cong., 1st Sess. We
1 The Johnson Act provides that no district court can enjoin the enforcement of any order issued by a state administrative body where the
jurisdiction of the court "is based solely upon the ground of diversity
of citizenship, or the repugnance of such order to the Constitution of
the United States," and "where such order (1) affects rates chargeable
by a public utility, (2) does not interfere with interstate commerce,
and (3) has been made after reasonable notice and hearing, and where
a plain, speedy, and efficient remedy may be had at law or in equity
in the courts of such State."
Since the order under review in this case did not in. any way affect
rates chargeable by any public utility, the Johnson Act is inapplicable.

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANxFURTR, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

are dealing, then, not with a jurisdiction evolved and
shaped by the courts but rather with one explicitly conferred and undeviatingly maintained by Congress.
The only limitations upon the exercise of diversity jurisdiction-apart from that which Congress made in the
Johnson Act-are, broadly speaking, those illustrated by
Railroad Comm'n v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co., 310 U. S.
573, as amended in 311 U. S. 614-15; Railroad Comm'n v.
Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496; and Chicago v. Fieldcrest
Dairies, 316 U. S. 168. In Rowan & Nichols the claim
based upon state law was derived from a statute requiring proration on a "reasonable basis," and it was not clear
from the decisions of the state courts whether such courts
might exercise an independent judgment as to what was
"reasonable." 311 U. S. at 615. And in Pullman it was
also "far from clear" whether state law, as authoritatively
defined by the local courts, might not displace the federal
questions raised by the bill. 312 U. S. at 499. Where
the controlling state law is so undefined that a federal'
court attempting to apply such law would be groping
utterly in the dark-where "no matter how seasoned the
judgment of the district court may be, it cannot escape
being a forecast rather than a determination," Railroad
Comm'n v. PullmanCo., 312 U. S. at 499-a court of equity
may "avoid the waste of a tentative decision," id., at 500.
The Pullmanand FieldcrestDairiescases are merely illustrative of one phase of the basic constitutional doctrine
that substantial constitutional issues should be adjudicated only when no alternatives are open. A definitive
ruling by the state courts upon the questions of construction of the state statutes might have terminated the controversies in those cases and thus eliminated serious
constitutional questions. Under such circumstances it
was an affirmation and not a denial of federal jurisdiction
in each of those cases for the district court to hold the bill

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

FmNKRmm, J., dissenting.

pending a seasonable determination of the local issues in
a proceeding to be brought in the state courts.
If, in a case of this sort, the state right sought to be
enforced in the federal courts depended upon a "forecast
rather than a determination" of state law, if the federal
court was practically impotent to enforce state law because of its inability to fathom the complexities, legal or
factual, of local law, the rule of Rowan & Nichols would be
applicable. In such a situation the line of demarcation
between what belongs to the state administrative body
and what to its courts should not be drawn by the federal
courts. If it could be shown that the circumstances of
this case warranted the application of such a doctrine of
abstention, I would gladly join in the decision of the Court.
But such a showing has not been attempted, nor, I believe,
could it be made.
Let us examine briefly the nature of the rights sought
here to be enforced in the federal courts. In 1919 the
Texas Railroad Commission issued its Rule 37 imposing
general spacing limitations upon the drilling of oil wells,
"provided that the Commission in order to prevent waste
or to prevent the confiscation of property" would grant
exceptions from the general restrictions. The order of
the Railroad Commission in this case granted a permit
to drill a well in exception to Rule 37. Section 8 of Article
6049c of Vernon's Texas Civil Statutes, 1925, provides that
any "interested person affected by . . . any rule, regulation or order made or promulgated by the Commission
thereunder, and who may be dissatisfied therewith, shall
have the right to file a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction in Travis County, Texas, and not elsewhere,
against the Commission, or the members thereof, as defendants, to test the validity of said laws, rules, regulations
or orders."
Looking only at the statute, one could find at least two
possible sources of ambiguity and confusion. By what

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANxF R,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

standards should the courts be governed in reviewing the
"validity" of Commission orders? Does the statutory
limitation of courts "of competent jurisdiction in Travis
County, Texas," preclude review in the federal district
court sitting in Travis County? Fortunately, we need
no longer look only to the words of the statute. These
questions are not new. They are not presented in this
case for the first time. We are not writing on a clean
slate.
It is true that Texas law governing review of Commission orders under Rule 37 has not always been clear and
certain, and that there may be parts of the statute and
some of .the Railroad Commission's Rules, with which we
are not now concerned, which, like other legal materials,
are not as clear as they might be. But, in a series of recent
decisions, the Supreme Court of Texas has not only given
precision to the concepts of "waste" and "confiscation of
property" employed in Rule 37, it has also defined with
clarity the scope of judicial review of Commission action.
In Gulf Land Co. v. Atlantic Refining Co., 134 Tex. 59,
70-71, 131 S. W. 2d 73, the Court held that "the term
'confiscation' evidently has reference to depriving the
owner or lessee of a fair chance to recover the oil and gas
in or under his land, or their equivalents in kind. It is
evident that the word refers principally to drainage.
Under one of the exceptions in Rule 37, well permits may
be granted to prevent 'confiscation.' It is the law that
every owner or lessee of land is entitled to a fair chance
to recover the oil and gas in or under his land, or their
equivalents in kind. Any denial of such fair chance would
be 'confiscation' within the meaning of Rule 37." And in
Railroad Commission v. Shell Oil Co., 139 Tex. 66, 80,
161 S. W. 2d 1022, decided by the Supreme Court of
Texas on March 11, 1942, the scope of judicial review contemplated by Texas law was authoritatively defined: "In
Texas, in all trials contesting the validity of an order,

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

FRAKnirnn,

341

J., dissenting.

rule, gr regulation of an administrative agency, the trial
is not for the purpose of determining whether the agency
actually heard sufficient evidence to support its orders,
but whether at the time such order was entered by the
agency there then existed sufficient facts to justify the
same. Whether the agency heard sufficient evidence is
not material." See also Cook Drilling Co. v. Gulf Oil
Corp., 139 Tex. 80, 161 S.W. 2d 1035, decided the same
day.
In other words, as the Circuit Court of Appeals has said
in this case, "We now know the legal requisites of orders
and regulations of the Railroad Commission under the
conservation laws of Texas. . . . Whether the Commission heard evidence or not is immaterial; it is not required
to take testimony or make findings of fact before promulgating its orders. Such procedure is foreign to the law of
Texas, although customary under federal statutes. If the
facts in existence when the order was made, as later shown
by evidence before the court, were such that reasonable
minds could not have reached the conclusion arrived at
by the Commission, or if the agency exceeded its power,
then the order should be set aside by any court of competent jurisdiction." 130 F. 2d 10, 14-15.
Clearly, therefore, the scope of judical review in a Rule
37 case, as declared by the Supreme Court of Texas, is
precisely as well defined, for example, as the scope of judicial review by the federal courts of orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission or the National Labor Relations
Board. That the scope of review may be different does not
make the standards of review any less definite or less susceptible of application by a court. I think there can be
no doubt that under the Constitution and laws of Texas,
as construed by the decisions of the state courts, such
courts exercise a judicial power in these cases precisely
similar to that wielded by the federal courts under Article
III. Can it be said, therefore, that in considering the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANiFUn

R,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

validity of an exception allowed by the Texas Railroad
Commission under Rule 37, the federal judges sitting in
that state are engaged in duties which are foreign to their
experience and abilities? Judges who sit in judgment
upon the legality of orders made by the Interstate Commerce Commission are certainly not incompetent to apply
the narrowly defined standards of law established by Texas
for review of the orders of its Railroad Commission.
We come, then, to the question whether Texas has manifested any desire to confine such review to the state courts
sitting in Travis County. A little history will go a long
way in answering this question. On April 3, 1891, the
Texas legislature enacted a statute creating the Texas
Railroad Commission. Section 6 provided that suits to
set aside Commission orders could be brought "in a court
of competent jurisdiction in Travis County, Texas." And,
naturally enough, the question soon arose whether this
provision prevented review in the federal court sitting in
Travis County. Almost fifty years ago there came before
this Court a memorable litigation in which the meaning
and purpose of the provision were thoroughly canvassed.
In Reagan v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S.362,
391-92, decided May 26, 1894, this Court unanimously
held that "it may be laid down as a general proposition
that, whenever a citizen of a State can go into the courts of
a State to defend his property against the illegal acts of its
officers, a citizen of another State may invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal courts to maintain a like defence. A
State cannot tie up a citizen of another State, having property rights within its territory invaded by unauthorized
acts of its own officers, to suits folp redress in its own
courts. . . . We need not, however, rest on the general
powers of a Federal court in this respect, for in the act before us express authority is given for a suit against the commission . . . The language of this provision [§ 6 of the

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

1891 statute] is significant. It does not name the court
in which the suit may be brought. It is not a court of
Travis County, but in Travis County. The language differing from that which ordinarily would be used to describe
a court of the State was selected apparently in order to
avoid the objection of an attempt to prevent the jurisdiction of the Federal courts."
For almost fifty years the holding in the Reagan case has
not been questioned. On the contrary, it has always been
taken for granted that the District Court for the Western
District of Texas is "a court of competent jurisdiction in
Travis County" and a suitable forum in which to challenge
the validity of orders of the Texas Railroad Commission.
One need only look at the tables of cases in both the lower
federal courts and in this Court to obtain a sense of the
solidity of this exercise of jurisdiction. Section 8 of Article
6049c, the Texas legislation immediately before us, was
originally enacted in 1932. The Texas legislature might
expressly have sought to restrict judicial proceedings with
respect to Commission orders to the state courts of Travis
County. This it has done in other situations. See e. g.,
Art. 91!e, § 10 of Vernon's Revised Civil Statutes, 1925
(appeal by applicant for transportation agent's license
from denial of application by Railroad Commission); Art.
3286 (suits by heirs or claimants to escheated lands);
Art. 5032 (appeals from revocation or suspension of*authority with respect to reciprocal insurance); Art. 8307,
§ 7 (suits to recover penalties from employers failing to
report injuries under workmen's compensation law). In
these statutory provisions jurisdiction is specifically limited to the "District Court in Travis County; Texas," the
state court. But in Article 6049c the Texas legislature
used the phrase "in a court of competent jurisdiction in
Travis County," precisely the same as that which had been
construed by this Court in the Reagan case. How, then,

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
,FtNMrMUn, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

can it be fairly said that the Texas legislature meant to
exclude the federal courts from exercising jurisdiction in
these cases?
And so, the case really reduces itself to this: in the actual
application of the standards governing judicial review of
Commission orders allowing exceptions under Rule 37standards which today have been authoritatively and precisely defined-a different result may be obtained if suit is
brought in the federal rather than the state courts. And
why? Because federal judges are less competent and less
fair than state judges in applying the rules that are binding
upon both? If this were true here, it would be equally
true as applied to almost all types of litigation brought
into federal courts to enforce state-created rights. The explanation may perhaps'lie in the realm of what has sometimes been called "psychological jurisprudence." In the
assessment of evidence and the other elements which enter
into a judicial judgment, a federal judge may make judgments different from those which a state judge may make.
Federal judges are perhaps to be regarded as men apartjudges who cannot be trusted to judge fairly and impartially. But if this be our premise, why should it not follow
that the federal courts are, because of their putative bias,
to be denied the right to hear insurance cases, or cases involving controversies between debtors and creditors, landlords and tenants, employers and employees, and all the
other complicated controversies arising out of the local
law of the forty-eight states?
It is the essence of diversity jurisdiction that federal
judges and juries should pass on asserted claims because
the result might be different if they were decided by a state
court. There may be excellent reasons why Congress
should abolish diversity jurisdiction. But, with all deference, it is not a defensible ground for having this Court
by indirection abrogate diversity jurisdiction when, as a
matter of fact, Congress has persistently refused to restrict

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

FRwxxnKRER, J., dissenting.

such jurisdiction except in the limited area occupied by the
Johnson Act. The Congressional premise of diversity
jurisdiction is that the possibility of unfairness against
outside litigants is to be avoided by providing the neutral,
forum of a federal court. The Court today is in effect
withdrawing this grant of jurisdiction in order to avoid
possible unfairness against state interests in the federal
courts. That which Congress created to assure impartiality of adjudication is now destroyed to prevent what is
deemed to be hostility and bias in adjudication.
Of course, the usual considerations governing the exercise of equity jurisdiction are equally applicable to suits
in the federal courts where jurisdiction depends upon the
diversity of the parties' citizenship. The chancellor certainly must balance the equities before granting relief; he
should stay his hand where another court seized of the
controversy can do justice to the claims of the parties; he
may refuse equitable relief where the asserted right is
doubtful because of the substantive law which he must find
as declared by the state. But it is too late in the day to
suggest that the chancellor may act on whimsical or purely
personal considerations or on private notions of policy
regarding the particular suit. It is not for us to say that
litigation affecting state laws and state policies ought to be
tried only in the state courts. Congress has chosen to confer diversity jurisdiction upon the federal courts. It is
not for us to reject that which Congress has made the law
of the land simply because of our independent conviction
that such legislation is unwise.
This is notjust an isolated case. To order the dismissal
of this litigation, on this record and in the present state
of Texas law, is not merely to decide that the federal court
in Travis County, Texas, should no longer entertain suits
brought under the Texas conservation laws. We are holding, in effect, that the enforcement of state rights created
by state legislation and affecting state policies is limited

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRNKFRT,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

to the state courts. It means, candidly, that we should
reexamine all of the cases-and there have been manysince the Reagan decision almost half a century ago. Do
we not owe it to the lower federal courts, for example, to
tell them where a case like Texas Pipe Line Co. v. Ware,
15 F. 2d 171, now stands? In that case the federal court
entertained a suit to enforce rights arising under a state
workmen's compensation law. Would it be error for a
federal judge to do so today? See, also, Lane v. Wilson,
307 U. S. 268.
Perhaps no judicial action calls fqr a more cautious exercise of discretion than the appointment of a receiver by a
court of equity, especially where the enterprise to be administered relates to important public interests. Such a
situation was presented to this Court in Pennsylvania v.
Williams, 294 U. S. 176, in which-solely on the score of
diversity of citizenship-a federal court was asked to assume the management of a Pennsylvania building and
loan association. The problem before this Court was not
whether the controversy should be adjudicated by a federal
rather than a state court, but whether, as a.matter of sound
judicial administration, a court of equity should take hold
of the affairs of the association by putting a judicial officer
in charge when in fact the state had established an administrative system whereby "the duty of supervising its own
building and loan associations and of liquidating them by
an adequate procedure when insolvent," 294 U. S. at 184,
was entrusted to a permanent, experienced state agency.
The question was not at all whether a federal court should
abdicate its authority in favor of a state court where the
rules of law which would govern a suit in a state court
would be precisely the same as those which a federal court
would be bound to apply. The Williams case, in other
words, is but an application of the-traditional doctrine that
a court of equity should stay its hand from-the improvident
appointment of a receiver.

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
315

FRIuKJRTm,

J., dissenting.

To talk about courts as "working partners" with administrative agencies whenever there is judicial review of administrative action is merely another way of saying that
legislative policies are enforced partly through administrative agencies and partly through courts. See United
States v. Morgan, 307 U. S.183, 191. But the use of such
colloquial expressions can hardly obliterate the distinction
between judicial power and legislative power, whether the
latter be exercised directly by the legislature or indirectly
through its administrative agencies. The courts of Texas
sit in judgment upon the Railroad Commission of Texas
only in so far as they have been charged by Texas law with
the duty of ascertaining the validity of Commission action.
They no more "participate in the fashioning of the state's
domestic policy" than the federal courts participate in the
fashioning of the transportation policy of the federal government in reviewing orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission under the Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38 Stat.
219, 28 U. S. C. § 47.
Therefore, unless all functions of courts heretofore
deemed to be judicial in nature even though they involve
appropriately defined review of actions taken by administrative agencies are now to be deemed administrative in
nature, the circumstance that a right asserted before a
court arises from a controversy that originated before an
administrative agency cannot alter either the nature of the
power being exercised by the court or its capacity to entertain jurisdiction. One might choose, for example, to describe this Court as the "working partner" of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and the
score of other administrative bodies the validity of whose
actions frequently comes here for review. But such a
characterization of our role in reviewing administrative
orders does not make this exercise of our power any the
5315-59-44-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Statement of the Case.

319 U. S.

less judicial or any the more administrative. Nor should
it be adequate to wipe out a distinction that is so embedded
in our constitutional history and practice.
The opinion of the Court cuts deep into our judicial
fabric. The duty of the judiciary is to exercise the jurisdiction which Congress has conferred. What the Court
is doing today I might wholeheartedly approve if it were
done by Congress. But I cannot justify translation of the
circumstance of my membership oi this Court into an opportunity of writing my private view of legislative policy
into law and thereby effacing a far greater area of diversity
jurisdiction than Senator Norris, as chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, was ever able to persuade Congress
itself to do.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE REED join in this
dissent.
The CHIEF JUSTICE expresses no views as to the desirability, as a matter of legislative policy, of retaining the
diversity jurisdiction. In all other respects he concurs in
the opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.
HASTINGS ET AL. v. SELBY OIL & GAS CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 528. Argued February 9, 1943. Reargued April 15, 1943.Decided May 24, 1943.
Decided on the authority of Burford v. Sun Oil Co., ante, p. 315.
Reversed and ordered dismissed.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 621, to review a judgment of the
District Court enjoining the enforcement of an order of
the Railroad Commission of Texas permitting two of the
defendants to drill for and extract oil and gas on a small
tract of land in the East Texas Oil Field.

