372

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 553. Argued March 9, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.

1. In this suit against the United States to recover benefits under a
contract of war risk insurance, on account of alleged total and
permanent disability resulting from insanity of the insured while the
policy was in force, held that the evidence was insufficient to support a judgment for the plaintiff and the trial court properly granted
the Government's motion for a directed verdict. P. 386.
2. The Seventh Amendment has no application of its own force to this
suit against the United States. P. 388.
3. Upon the record in this case, the direction of the verdict for the
defendant did not deprive the plaintiff of the right to a jury trial.
P. 396.
130 F. 2d 467, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 622, to review the affirmance of
a judgment upon a verdict directed for the Government
in. a suit to recover benefits under a contract of war risk
insurance.

Mr. Warren E. Miller for petitioner.
Mr. Lester P. Schoene, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Messrs. Wilbur C. Pickett, W. Marvin Smith, and Keith L. Seegmiller

were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner seeks benefits for total and permanent disability by reason of insanity he claims existed May 31, 1919.
On that day his policy of yearly renewable term insurance
lapsed for nonpayment of premium.'
1

The contract was issued pursuant to the War Risk Insurance Act
and insured against death or total permanent disability. (Act of Oct.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

The suit was filed June 15, 1938. At the close of all the
evidence, the District Court granted the Government's
motion for a directed verdict. Judgment was entered accordingly. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 1.30
F. 2d 467. Both courts held the evidence legally insufficient to sustain a verdict for petitioner. He says this was
erroneous and, in effect, deprived him of trial by jury,
contrary to the Seventh Amendment.
The constitutional argument, as petitioner has made it,
does not challenge generally the power of federal courts
to withhold or withdraw from the jury cases in which the
claimant puts forward insufficient evidence to support a
verdict.2 The contention is merely that his case as made
was substantial, the courts' decisions to the contrary were
wrong, and therefore their effect has been to deprive him
of a jury trial. Petitioner relies particularly upon Halliday v. United States, 315 U. S.94, and Berry v. United
States, 312 U. S.450, citing also Gunning v. Cooley, 281
U. S.90. These cases and others relied upon are distinguishable upon the facts, as will appear. Upon the record
and the issues as the parties have made them, the only
question is whether the evidence was sufficient to sustain
a verdict for petitioner. On that basis, we think the judgments must be affirmed.
I.

Certain facts are undisputed. Petitioner worked as a
longshoreman in Philadelphia and elsewhere prior to en6,1917, c. 105, § 400, 40 Stat. 398, 409.) Pursuant to statutory authority (Act of May 20, 1918, c. 77, § 13, 40 Stat. 555), T.D. 20 W. R.,
promulgated March 9, 1918, provided:
"Any impairment of mind or body which renders it impossible for the
disabled person to follow continuously any substantially gainful occupation shall be deemed . .. to be total disability.

"Total disability shall be deemed to be permanent whenever it is
founded upon conditions which render it reasonably certain that it will
continue throughout the life of the person suffering from it .. .
(Regulations and Procedure, U. S. Veterans Bureau, Part I, p. 9.)
2
See, however, Part UI, infra.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

listment in the Army November 1, 1917.' He became a
cook in a machine gun battalion. His unit arrived in
France in April, 1918. He served actively until September
24. From then to the following January he was in a hospital with influenza. He then returned to active duty. He
came back to the United States, and received honorable
discharge April 29, 1919. He enlisted in the Navy January 15, 1920, and was discharged for bad conduct in July.
The following December he again enlisted in the Army
and served until May 1922, when he deserted. Thereafter he was carried on the Army records as a deserter.
In 1930 began a series of medical examinations by
Veterans' Bureau physicians. On May 19 that year his
condition was diagnosed as "Moron, low grade; observation, dementia praecox, simple type." In November,
1931, further examination gave the diagnosis, "Psychosis
with other diseases or conditions (organic disease of the
central nervous system-type undetermined)." In-July,
1934, still another examination was made, with diagnosis:
"Psychosis-manic and depressive insanity incompetent;
hypertension, moderate; otitis media, chronic, left; varicose veins left, mild; abscessed teeth roots; myocarditis,
mild."
Petitioner's wife, the nominal party in this suit, was
appointed guardian of his person and estate in February,
1932. Claim for insurance benefits was made in June,
1934, and was finally denied by the Board of Veterans'
Appeals in January, 1936. This suit followed two and
a half years later.
Petitioner concededly is now totally and permanently
disabled by reason of insanity and has been for some time
prior to institution of this suit. It is conceded also that
8The record does not show whether this employment was steady
and continuous or was spotty and erratic. But there is no contention
petitioner's behavior was abnormal before he arrived in France in

April, 1918.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

.375

Opinion of the Court.

he was sound in mind and body until he arrived in France
in April, 1918.
The theory of his case is that the strain of active service
abroad brought on an immediate change, which was the
beginning of a mental breakdown that has grown worse
continuously through all the later years. Essential in
this is the view it had become a total and permanent disability not later than May 31, 1919.
The evidence to support this theory falls naturally into
three periods, namely, that prior to 1923; the interval from
then to 1930; and that following 1930. It consists in
proof of incidents occurring in France to show the beginnings of change; testimony of changed appearance and
behavior in the years immediately following petitioner's
return to the United States as compared with those prior
to his departure; the medical evidence of insanity accumulated in the years following 1930; and finally the evidence of a physician, given largely as medical opinion,
which seeks to tie all the other evidence together as foundation for the conclusion, expressed as of 1941, that petitioner's disability was total and permanent as of a time
not later than May of 1919.
Documentary; exhibits included military, naval and
Veterans' Bureau records. Testimony was given by deposition or at the trial chiefly by five witnesses. One,
O'Neill, was .a fellow worker and friend from boyhood;
two, Wells and Tanikawa, served with petitioner overseas;
Lt. Col. Albert K. Mathews, who was an Army chaplain, observed him or another person of the same name at
an Army hospital in California during early 1920; and
Dr. Wilder, a physician, examined him shortly before the
trial and supplied the only expert testimony in his behalf.
The petitioner also put into evidence the depositions of
Commander Platt and Lt. Col. James E. Matthews, his
superior officers in the Navy and the Army, respectively,
during 1920-22.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

What happened in France during 1918-19 is shown
chiefly by Wells and Tanikawa. Wells testified to an
incident at Aisonville, where the unit was billeted shortly
after reaching France and beforeF going into action. Late
at night petitioner created a disturbance, "hollering,
screeching, swearing

. .

. The men poured out from

the whole section." Wells did not see the incident, but
heard petitioner swearing at his superior officers and saw
"the result, a black eye for Lt. Warner." However, he did
not see "who gave it to him."' Wells personally observed no infraction of discipline except this incident, and
did not know what brought it on. Petitioner's physical
appearance was good, he "carried on his duties as a cook
all right," and the witness'did not see him after June 1,
except for about three days in July when he observed petitioner several times at work feeding stragglers.
Tanikawa, Hawaiian-born citizen, served with petitioner from the latter's enlistment until September, 1918,
when Galloway was hospitalized, although the witness
thought they had fought together and petitioner was "acting queer" at the Battle of the Argonne in October. At
Camp Greene, North Carolina, petitioner was "just a
regular -soldier, very normal, , . . pretty neat." After
reaching France "he was getting nervous . . ., kind of

irritable, always picking a fight with other soldiers." This
began at Aisonville. Tanikawa saw Galloway in jail, apparently before June. It is not clear whether these are
references to the incident Wells described.
Tanikawa described another incident in June "when
we were on the Marne," the Germans "were on the other
side and we were on this side." It was a new front, without trenches. The witness and petitioner were on guard
duty with others. Tanikawa understood the Germans
' Wells heard of another incident at Monthurel in June, but his
testimony concerning this was excluded as hearsay.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

were getting ready for a big drive. "One night he
[petitioner] screamed. He said, 'The Germans are coming' and we all gagged him." There was no shooting, the
Germans were not coming, and there was nothing to lead
the witness to believe they were. Petitioner was courtmartialed for the matter, but Tanikawa did not know
"what they did with him." He did not talk with Galloway
that night, because "he was out'of his mind" and appeared
insane. Tanikawa did not know when petitioner left the
battalion or what happened to him after (as the witness
put it) the Argonne fight, but heard he went to the hospital, "just dressing station I guess." The witness next
saw Galloway in 1936, at a disabled veterans' post meeting
in Sacramento, California. Petitioner then "looked to
me like he wasn't all there. Insane. About the same
• . . as compared to the way he acted in France, particularly when they gagged him . . ."
O'Neill was "born and raised with" petitioner, worked
with him as a longshoreman, and knew him "from when
he come out of the army for seven years, . . . I would say
five or six years." When petitioner returned in April or
May, 1919, "he was a wreck compared to what he was
when he went away. The fallow's mind was evidently
unbalanced." Symptoms specified were withdrawing to
himself; crying spells; alternate periods of normal behavior and nonsensical talk; expression of fears that good
friends wanted "to beat him up"; spitting blood and remarking about it in vulgar terms. Once petitioner said,
"G- d- it, I must be a Doctor Jekyll and Mr. Hyde."
O'Neill testified these symptoms and this condition
continued practically the same for about five years. In
his opinion petitioner was "competent at times and others
was incompetent." The intervals might be "a couple of
days, a couple of months." In his normal periods Galloway "would be his old self . . . absolutely 0. K."

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

O'Neill was definite in recalling petitioner's condition
and having seen him frequently in 1919, chiefly however, and briefly, on the street during lunch hour. He
was not sure Galloway was working and was "surprised
he got in the Navy, I think in the Navy or in the Government service."
O'Neill maintained he saw petitioner "right on from
that [1920] at times." But his recollection of dates,
number of opportunities for observation, and concrete
events was wholly indefinite. He would fix no estimate
for the number of times he had seen petitioner: "In 1920
I couldn't recall whether it was one or a thousand." For
later years he would not say whether it was "five times
or more or less." When he was pinned down by crossexamination, the effect of his testimony was that he recalled petitioner clearly in 1919 "because there was such
a vast contrast in the man," but for later years he could
give little or no definite information. The excerpt from
the testimony set forth in the margin 5 shows this con' "X Can you tell us approximately how many times you saw him
in 1919?
"A. No; I seen him so often that it would be hard to give any
estimate.
"X And the same goes for 1920?
"A. I wouldn't be sure about 1920. 1 remember him more when he
first came home because there was such a vast contrast in the man.
Otherwise, if nothing unusual happened, I wouldn't probably recall
him at all, you know, that is, recall the particular time and all.
"X Well, do you recall him at all in 1920?
"A. I can't say.
"X And could you swear whether or not you ever saw him in 19921?
"A. I think I seen him both in 1921 and 1920 and 1921 and right on.
I might not see him for a few weeks or months at a time, but I think
I saw him a few times in all the years right up to, as I say, at least
five years after.
"X Can you give us an estimate as to the number of times you saw
him in 19207
"A. No,I would not.
"X Was it more than five times or less?

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

trast. We also summarize below ' other evidence which
explains or illustrates the vagueness of the witness' recollection for events after 1919. O'Neill recalled one specific occasion after 1919 when petitioner returned to Philadelphia, "around 1920 or 1921, but I couldn't be sure," to
testify in a criminal proceeding. He also said, "After he
was away for five or six years, he came back to Philadelphia, but I wouldn't know nothing about dates on that.
He was back in Philadelphia for five or six months or so,
and he was still just evidently all right, and then he would
be off."
Lt. Col. (Chaplain) Mathews said he observed a Private Joseph Galloway, who was a prisoner for desertion
and a patient in the mental ward at Fort MacArthur Sta"A. In 1920 1 couldn't recall whether it was one or a thousand.
The time I recall him well is when he first come home, but I know
that I seen him right on from that at times.
"X And the same goes for 1921, 1922, 1923 and 1924?
"A. I would say for five years afterwards, but I don't know just
when or how often I seen him except when he first come home for
the first couple of months.
"X But for years after his return you couldn't say definitely whether
you saw him five times or more or less, could you?
"A. No, because it was a thing that there was a vast contrast when
he first come home and everybody noticed it and remarked about it
and it was more liable to be remembered. You could ask me about
some more friends I knew during those years and I wouldn't know
except there was something unusual." (Emphasis added.)
"Petitioner's own evidence shows without dispute he was on active
duty in the Navy from January 15, 1920, to July of that year, and in
the Army from December, 1920, to May 6, 1922. As is noted in the
text, O'Neill was not sure he was working and "was surprised he got
in the Navy, I think in the Navy or in the Government service." He
only "heard some talk" of petitioner's having renlisted in the Army,
but "if it was the fact, I would be surprised that he could do it owing
to his mental condition." (Emphasis addedf) O'Neill was not certain that he saw Galloway in uniform after the first week of his return to Philadelphia from overseas, although he said he saw petitioner
during "the periods of those re~nlistments ... but I can't recall

about it."
531559-44-----28

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

tion Hospital, California, during a six weeks period early
in 1920. The chaplain's testimony gives strong evidence
the man he observed was insane. However, there is a
fatal weakness in this evidence. In his direct testimony,
which was taken by deposition, the chaplain said he was
certain that the soldier was petitioner. When confronted
with the undisputed fact that petitioner was on active
duty in the Navy during the first half of 1920, the witness
at first stated that he might have been mistaken as to the
time of his observation. Subsequently he reasserted the
accuracy of his original statement as to the time of observation, but admitted that he might have been mistaken in
believing that the patient-prisoner was petitioner. In
this connection he volunteered the statement, "Might I
add, sir, that I could not now identify that soldier if I
were to meet him face to face, and that is because of the
long lapse of time." The patient whom the witness saw
was confined to his bed. The record is barren of other
evidence, whether by the hospital's or the Army's records
or otherwise, to show that petitioner was either patient
or prisoner at Fort MacArthur in 1920 or at any other
time.
Commander Platt testified that petitioner caused considerable trouble by disobedience and leaving ship without permission during his naval service in the first half of
1920. After "repeated warnings and punishments, leading
to courts martial," he was sentenced to a bad conduct
discharge.
Lt. Col. James E. Matthews (not the chaplain) testified
by deposition which petitioner's attorney interrupted Dr.
Wilder's testimony to read into evidence. The witness
was Galloway's connanding officer from early 1921 to the
summer of that year, when petitioner was transferred with
other soldiers to another unit. At first, Colonel Matthews
considered making petitioner a corporal, but found him
unreliable and had to discipline him. Petitioner "drank

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

considerably," was "what we called a bolshevik," did not
seem loyal, and "acted as if he was not getting a square
deal." The officer concluded "he was a moral pervert and
probably used narcotics," but could not secure proof of
this. Galloway was court-martialed for public drunkenness and disorderly conduct, served a month at hard labor,
and returned to active duty. At times he "was one of the
very best soldiers I had," at others undependable. He was
physically sound, able to do his work, perform close order
drill, etc., "very well." He had alternate periods of gaiety
and depression, talked incoherently at times, gave the impression he would fight readily, but did not resent orders
and seemed to get along well with other soldiers. The
officer attributed petitioner's behavior to alcohol and narcotics, and it occurred to him at no time to question his
sanity.
Dr. Wilder was the key witness. He disclaimed specializing in mental disease, but qualified as having given it
"special attention." He first saw petitioner shortly before the trial, examined him "several times." He concluded petitioner's ailment "is a schizophrenic branch or
form of praecox." Dr. Wilder heard the testimony and
read the depositions of the other witnesses, and examined
the documentary evidence. Basing his judgment upon
this material, with inferences drawn from it, he concluded
petitioner was born with "an inherent instability," though
he remained normal until he went to France; began there
"to be subjected to the strain of military life, then he began to go to pieces." In May, 1919, petitioner "was still
suffering from the acuteness of the breakdown . . . He

is going down hill still, but the thing began with the
breakdown . . ." Petitioner was "definitely insane, yes,

sir," in 1920 and "has been insane at all times, at least
since July, 1918, the time of this episode on the Marne";
that is, "to the point that he was unable to adapt himself.
I don't mean he has not had moments when he could not
[sic] perform some routine tasks," but "from an occupa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

tional standpoint . . .he has been insane." He could follow "a mere matter of routine," but would have no incentive, would not keep a steady job, come to work on time, or
do anything he didn't want to do. Dr. Wilder pointed
to petitioner's work record before he entered the service
and observed: "At no time after he went into the war do
we find him able to hold any kind of a job. He broke
right down." He explained petitioner's enlistment in the
Navy and later in the Army by saying, "It would have
been no trick at all for a man who was reasonably conforming to get into the Service." (Emphasis added.)
However, the witness knew "nothing whatever except
his getting married" about petitioner's activities between
1925 and 1930, and what he knew of them between 1922
and 1925 was based entirely on O'Neill's testimony and a
paper not of record here.! Dr. Wilder at first regarded
knowledge concerning what petitioner was doing between
1925 and 1930 as not essential. "We have a continuing
disease, quite obviously beginning during his military
service, and quite obviously continuing in 1930, and the
minor incidents don't seem to me-"
(Emphasis
added.) Counsel for the government interrupted to inquire, "Well, if he was continuously employed for eight
hours a day from 1925 to 1930 would that have any bearing?" The witness replied, "It would have a great deal."
Upon further questioning, however, he reverted to his first
position, stating it would not be necessary or helpful for
him to know what petitioner was doing from 1925 to 1930:
"I testified from the information I had."
II.
This, we think, is the crux of the case and distinguishes
it from the cases on which petitioner has relied.' His bur7 It is to be noted tie witness did not refer to Chaplain Mathews'
testimony.
8None of them exhibits a period of comparable length as to which
evidence is wholly lacking and under circumstances which preclude
inference the omission was unintentional.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

den was to prove total and permanent disability as of a
date not later than May 31, 1919. He has undertaken to
do this by showing incipience of mental disability shortly
before that time and its continuance and progression
throughout the succeeding years. He has clearly established incidence of total and permanent disability as of
some period prior to 1938, when he began this suit.' For
our purposes this may be taken as medically established
by the Veterans' Bureau examination and diagnosis of
July, 1934.0

But if the record is taken to show that some form of
mental disability existed in 1930, which later became
total and permanent, petitioner's problem remains to dem-

onstrate by more than speculative inference that this condition itself began on or before May 31, 1919, and con9 He has not established a fixed date at which contemporaneous
medical examination, both physical and mental, establishes totality
and permanence prior to Dr. Wilder's examinations in 1941.
Dr. Wilder testified that on the evidence concerning petitioner's
behavior at the time of his discharge in 1919, and without reference
to the testimony as to later conduct, including O'Neill's, he would
reserve his opinion on whether petitioner was then "crazy "--"Iwouldn't
have enough-"
11The previous examinations of 1930 and 1931 show possibility of
mental disease in the one case and existence of psychosis with other
disease, organic in character but with type undetermined, in the other.
These two examinations without more do not prove existence of total
and permanent disability; on the contrary, they go far toward showing it could not be established then medically.
The 1930 diagnosis shows only that the examiner regarded petitioner as a moron of low grade, and recommended he be observed for
simple dementia praecox. Dr. Wilder found no evidence in 1941 that
petitioner was a moron. The 1931 examination is even less conclusive
in one respect, namely, that "psychosis" takes the place of moronic
status. Dr. Wilder also disagreed with this diagnosis. However, this
examination first indicates existence of orgaiic nervous disease. Not
until the 1934 diagnosis is there one which might be regarded as showing possible total and permanent disability by medical evidence contenmpraneous with the fact.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

tinuously existed or progressed through the intervening
years to 1930.
To show origin before the crucial date, he gives evidence
of two abnormal incidents occurring while he was in
France, one creating the disturbance before he came near
the fighting front, the other yelling that the Germans were
coming when he was on guard duty at the Marne. There
is no other evidence of abnormal behavior during his
entire service of more than a year abroad.
That he was court-martialed for these sporadic acts and
bound and gagged for one does not prove he was insane or
had then a general breakdown in "an already fragile mental constitution," which the vicissitudes of a longshoreman's life had not been able to crack.
To these two incidents petitioner adds the testimony
of O'Neill that he looked and acted like a wreck, compared with his former self, when he returned from France
about a month before the crucial date, and O'Neill's vague
recollections that this condition continued through the
next two, three, four, or five years.
O'Neill's testimony apparently takes no account of
petitioner's having spent 101 days in a hospital in France
with influenza just before he came home. But, given the
utmost credence, as is required, it does no more than show
that petitioner was subject to alternating periods of gaiety
and depression for some indefinite period after his return,
extending perhaps as late as 1922. But because of its
vagueness as to time, dates, frequency of opportunity for
observation, and specific incident, O'Neill's testimony concerning the period from 1922 to 1925 is hardly more than
speculative.
We have then the two incidents in France, followed by
O'Neill's testimony of petitioner's changed condition in
1919 and its continuance to 1922.11 There is also the
nChaplain Mathews' testimony would be highly probative of insanity existing early in 1920, if petitioner were sufficiently identified as
its subject. However, the bare inference of identity which might other-

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

testimony of Commander Platt and Lt. Col. James E. Matthews as to his service in the Navy and the Army, respectively, during 1920-1922. Neither thought petitioner was
insane or that his conduct indicated insanity. Then follows a chasm of eight years. The only evidence 2 we have
concerning this period is the fact that petitioner married
his present guardian at some time within it, an act from
which in the legal sense no inference of insanity can be
drawn.
This period was eight years of continuous insanity, according to the inference petitioner would be allowed to
have drawn. If so, he should have no need of inference.
Insanity so long and continuously sustained does not hide
itself from the eyes and ears of witnesses.13 The assiduwise be drawn from the mere identity of names cannot be made reasonably, in view of its overwhelming contradiction by other evidence
presented by petitioner and the failure to produce records from Fort
MacArthur Hospital or the Army or from persons who knew the fact
that petitioner had been there at any time. The omission eloquently
testifies, in a manner which no inference could overcome, that petitioner

never was there. The chaplain's testimony therefore should have been
stricken, had the case gone to the jury, and petitioner can derive no
aid from it here.
Tanikawa, it may be recalled, did not profess to have seen petitioner
between October, 1918, and 1936.
'2Apart from O'Neill's vague recollection of petitioner's return to
Philadelphia on one occasion.
13 The only attempt to explain the absence of testimony concerning
the period from 1922 to 1930 is made by counsel in the reply brief:
"The insured, it will be observed, was never apprehended after his
desertion from the Army in 1922. It is only reasonable that a person
with the status of a deserter at large . . ., whose mind was in the
condition of that of this insured, would absent himself from those
with whom he would usually associate because of fear of apprehension and punishment. His mental condition . . . at the time of
trial ...clearly shows that he could not have testified. . . . A lack
of testimony from 1922 to 1930 is thus explained, and the jury could
well infer that only the then [1941?] admittedly insane insured was
in a position to know where he was and what he was doing during

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

ity which produced the evidence of two "crazy" incidents
during a year and a half in France should produce one during eight years or, for that matter, five years in the United
States.
Inference is capable of bridging many gaps. But not,
in these circumstances, one so wide and deep as this.
Knowledge of petitioner's activities and behavior from
1922 or 1925 to 1930 was peculiarly within his ken and
that of his wife, who has litigated this cause in his and presumably, though indirectly, in her own behalf. His was
the burden to show continuous disability. What he did
in this time, or did not do, was vital to his case. Apart
from the mere fact of his marriage, the record is blank
for five years and almost blank for eight. For all that appears, he may have worked full time and continuously for
five and perhaps for eight, with only a possible single
interruption.1'
No favorable inference can be drawn from the omission.
It was not one of oversight or inability to secure proof.
That is shown by the thoroughness with which the record
was prepared for all other periods, before and after this
one, and by the fact petitioner's wife, though she married
him during the period and was available, did not testify.
The only reasonable conclusion is that petitioner, or those
who acted for him, deliberately chose, for reasons no doubt
considered sufficient (and which we do not criticize, since
these years; as he had lost his mental faculties, the reason for lack
of proof during these years is apparent."
The "explanation" is obviously untenable. -It ignores the one fact
proved with relation to the period, that petitioner was married during it. His wife was nominally a party to the suit, and obviously
available as a witness. It disregards the fact petitioner continued
-in the status of deserter after 1930, yet produced evidence relating
to the period from that time on. It assumes he was insane during
the eight years, yet succeeded during that long time in absenting
himself from persons who could testify in his favor.
2 CJ. note 12, supra.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

such matters, including tactical ones, are for the judgment
of counsel), to present no evidence or perhaps to withhold evidence readily available concerning this long interval, and to trust to the genius of expert medical inference and judicial laxity to bridge this canyon.
In the circumstances exhibited, the former is not equal
to the feat, and the latter will not permit it. No case has
been cited and none has been found in which inference,
however expert, has been permitted to make so broad a
leap and take the place of evidence which, according to
all reason, must have been at hand." To allow this would
permit the substitution of inference, tenuous at best, not
merely for evidence absent because impossible or difficult
to secure, but for evidence disclosed to be available
and not produced. This would substitute speculation for
proof. Furthermore, the inference would be more plausible perhaps if the evidence of insanity as of May, 1919,
were stronger than it is, such for instance as Chaplain
Mathews' testimony would have furnished if it could be
taken as applying to petitioner. But, on this record, the
evidence of insanity as of that time is thin at best, if it
can be regarded as at all more than speculative 6
Beyond this, there is nothing to show totality or permanence. These come only by what the Circuit Court of
Appeals rightly characterized as "long-range retroactive
diagnosis." That might suffice, notwithstanding this
crucial inference was a matter of opinion, if there were
factual evidence over which the medical eye could travel
and find continuity through the intervening years. Cf.
Hallidayv. United States, supra. But eight years are too
many to permit it to skip, when the bridgeheads (if the
figure may be changed) at each end are no stronger than
15 Compare Bishop v. Copp, 96 Conn. 571, 580, 114 A. 682; Murphree
v. Senn, 107 Ala. 424, 18 So. 264; Aldrich v. Aldrich, 215 Mass. 164, 102
N. E. 487.
16 Cf. Dr. Wilder's admission, note 9, supra.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

they are here, and when the seer first denies, then admits,
then denies again, that what took place in this time would
make "a great deal" of difference in what he saw. Expert
medical inference rightly can do much. But we think the
feat attempted here too large for its accomplishment.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought petitioner's enlistments and service in the Navy and Army in 1920-1922
were in themselves "such physical facts as refute any
reasonable inferences which may be drawn from the evidence here presented by him that he was totally and permanently disabled during the life of his policy." 130 F.
2d 471; cf. Atkins v. United States, 63 App. D. C. 164,
70 F. 2d 768, 771; United States v. Le Duc, 48 F. 2d 789,
793 (C. C. A.). The opinion also summarizes and apparently takes account of the evidence presented on behalf
of the Government. 130 F. 2d 469, 470. In view of the
ground upon which we have placed the decision, we need
not consider these matters.
III.
What has been said disposes of the case as the parties
have made it. For that reason perhaps nothing more
need be said. But objection has been advanced that, in
some manner not wholly clear, the directed verdict practice offends the Seventh Amendment.
It may be noted, first, that the Amendment has no application of its own force to this case. The suit is one
to enforce a monetary claim against the United States!
It hardly can be maintained that under the common law
in 1791 jury trial was a matter of right for persons asserting claims against the sovereign."' Whatever force the
17 Neither the Amendment's terms nor its history suggest it was
intended to extend to such claims. The Court of Claims has functioned
for almost a century without affording jury trial in cases of this sort
and without offending the requirements of the Amendment. McElrath

v. United States, 102 U. S. 426; see Richardson, History. Jurisdic-

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment has therefore is derived because Congress,
in the legislation cited,' has made it applicable. ,Even
so, the objection made on the score of its requirements is
untenable.
If the intention is to claim generally that the Amendment deprives the federal courts of power to direct a verdict for insufficiency of evidence, the short answer is the
contention has been foreclosed by repeated decisions made
here consistently for nearly a century.19 More recently
the practice has been approved explicitly in the promulgation of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Cf. Rule
50; Berry v. United States, 312 U. S. 450. The objection
therefore comes too late.
Furthermore, the argument from history is not convincing. It is not that "the rules of the-common law" in 1791
deprived trial courts of power to withdraw cases from the
tion and Practice of the Court of Claims (2d ed. 1885). Cf. also note
18, infra.

Is43 Stat. 1302, 38 U. S. C. § 445; see H. R. Rep. No. 1518, 68th
Cong., 2d Sess., 2; Pence v. United States, 316 U. S. 332, 334; Whitney v. United States, 8 F. 2d 476 (C. C. A.); Hacker v. United States,
16 F. 2d 702 (C. C. A.).
Although Congress, in first permitting suits on War Risk Insurance

policies, did not explicitly make them triable by jury, 40 Stat. 398, 410,
the statute was construed to import "the usual procedure . . . in
actions at law for money compensation." Law v. Unit*ed States, 266
U. S. 494, 496. In amending that'Act, Congress provided that, except
for differences not relevant here, the "procedure in such suits shall

. . be the same as that provided for suits" under the Tucker Act,
43 Stat. 607, 613. Suits under the Tucker Act were tried without a
jury (24 Stat. 505). However, within a year (in :1925) Congress
amended that Act (43 Stat. 1302) with the intention to "give the
claimant the right to a jury trial" H. R. Rep. No. 1518, 68th Cong.,
2d Sess., 2.
10 See e. g., Parks v. Ross, 11 How. 362; Improvement Co. v. Munson,
14 Wall. 442; Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116; Commissioners of

Marion County v. Clark, 94 U.. S. 278; Ewing v. Goode, 78 F. 442
(C. C.); cf. Southern Ry. Co. v. Walters, 284 U. S. 190; Gunning v.
Cooley, 281 U. S. 90.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

jury, because not made out, or appellate courts of power
to review such determinations. The jury was not absolute
master of fact in 1791. Then as now courts excluded evidence for irrelevancy and relevant proof for other reasons 2 ° The argument concedes they weighed the evidence, not only piecemeal but in toto -for submission to
the jury, by at least two procedures, the demurrer to the
evidence and the motion for a new trial. The objection
is not therefore to the basic thing," which is the power of
the court to withhold cases from the jury or set aside the
verdict for insufficiency of the evidence. It is rather to
incidental or collateral effects, namely, that the directed
verdict as now administered differs from both those procedures because, on the one hand, allegedly higher standards of proof are required and, on the other, different consequences follow as to further maintenance of the
litigation. Apart from the standards of proof, the argument appears to urge that in 1791, a litigant could challenge his opponent's evidence, either by the demurrer,
which when determined ended the litigation, or by motion
for a new trial which, if successful, gave the adversary another chance to prove his case; and therefore the Amendment excluded any challenge to which one or the other of
these consequences does not attach.
The Amendment did not bind the federal courts to the
exact procedural incidents or details of jury trial according
to the common law in 1791, any more than it tied them to
the common-law system of pleading or the specific rules
of evidence then prevailing."
Nor were "the rules of the
20 Compare, i. g., 3 Gilbert, The Law of Evidence (1792) 1181-5;
Rex v. Paine, 5 Mod. 163; Folkes V. Chadd, 3 Doug. 157.
21 Cf. Thoe v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 181 Wis. 456, 195 N. W.

407.
22

Ex parte Peterson, 253 U. S. 300; Gasoline Products Co. v.
Champlin Refining Co., 283 U. S. 494; Walker v. New Mexico &
Southern Pacific R. Co., 165 U. S. 593; Capital Traction Co. v. Hof,
174 U. S. 1; cf. Stone, J., dissenting in Dimick v. Schiedt, 293 U. S.474,

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

common law" then prevalent, including those relating to
the procedure by which the judge regulated the jury's role
on questions of fact, crystallized in a fixed and immutable
system. On the contrary, they were constantly changing
and developing during the late eighteenth and early
nineteenth centuries.u

In 1791 this process already had

490. The rules governing the admissibility of evidence, for example,
have a real impact on the jury's function as a trier of facts and the
judge's po~ivr to impinge on that function. Yet it would hardly be
maintained that the broader rules of admissibility now prevalent
offend the Seventh Amendment because at the time of its adoption
evidence now admitted would have been excluded. Cf. e. g., Funk v.
United States, 290 U. S. 371.
23
E. g., during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the nonsuit
was being transformed in practice from a device by which a plaintiff
voluntarily discontinued his action in order to try again another day
into a procedure by which a defendant could put in issue the sufficiency
of the plaintiff's evidence to go to the jury, differing from the directed
verdict in that respect only in form. Compare Blackstone's Commentaries, Book III (Cooley's ed., 1899) 376; Johnson, J., dissenting in
Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Pet. 469 (1828); Oscanyan v. Winchester Arms
Co., 103 U. S.261, 264; Coughran v. Bigelow, 164 U. S.301; see the
historical survey in the comprehensive opinion of McAllister, J., in
Hopkins v. Railroad, 96 Tenn. 409, 34 S.W. 1029. See generally 2
Tidd's Practice (4th Amer. ed., 1856) 861, 866-8. The nonsuit, of
course, differed in consequence from the directed verdict, for it left
the plaintiff free to try again. Oscanyan v. Winchester Arms Co.,
supra; Tidd's Practice, supra.
Similarly the demurrer to the evidence practice was not static during this period, as a comparison of Cocksedge v. Fanshaw, 1 Doug. 118
(1779), with Gibson v. Hunter, 2 H. B1. 187 (1793), and the American
practice on the demurrer to the evidence reveals (see, e. g., Stephens
v. White, 2 Wash. 203 (Va. 1796); Patrick v. Hallett, 1 Johns. 241
(N. Y. 1806); Whittington v. Christian,2 Randolph 353 (Va. 1824).
See, generally, Schofield, New Trials and the Seventh Amendment, 8
Ill. L. Rev. 287, 381, 465; Thayer, Preliminary Treatise on Evidence
(1898) 234-9). Nor was the conception of directing a verdict entirely.
unknown to the eighteenth century common law. See, e. g., Wilkinson
v. Kitchin, 1 Ld. Raymond 89 (K. B.); Syderbottom v. Smith, 1 Strange
649. While there is no reason to believe that the notion at that time

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

resulted in widely divergent common-law rules on procedural matters among the states, and between them and
England.2' And none of the contemporaneous rules regarding judicial control of the evidence going to juries or
its sufficiency to support a verdict had reached any precise,
much less final, form." In addition, the passage of time
has obscured much of the procedure which then may
have had more or less definite form, even for historical
purposes."
This difficulty, no doubt, accounts for the amorphous
character of the objection now advanced, which insists,
not that any single one of the features criticized, but that
the cumulative total or the alternative effect of all, was
embodied in the Amendment. The more logical conclusion, we think, and the one which both history and the
previous decisions here support, is that the Amendment
was designed to preserve the basic institution of jury trial
in only its most fundamental elements, not the great
mass of procedural forms and details, varying even then
so widely among common-law jurisdictions.'
Apart from the uncertainty and the variety of conclusion which follows from an effort at purely historical accuracy, the consequences flowing from the view asserted
are sufficient to refute it. It may be doubted that the
Amendment requires challenge to an opponent's case to
be made without reference to the merits of one's own and
at the price of all opportunity to have it considered. On
the other hand, there is equal room for disbelieving it
even approximated in character the present directed verdict, the cases
serve further to show the plastic and developing character of these procedural devices during th eighteenth and nineteehth centuries.
24 See, e. g., Quincy's Mass. Reports, 553-72.
25 See note 23, supra.
2e See, e. g., Schofield, New Trials and the Seventh Amendment, 8
l. L. Rev. 287, 381, 465.
27 Cf. notes 22 and 23, supra.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

compels endless repetition of litigation and unlimited
chance, by education gained at the opposing party's expense, for perfecting a case at other trials. The essential inconsistency of these alternatives would seem sufficient to refute that either or both, to the exclusion of all
others, received constitutional sanctity by the Amendment's force. The first alternative, drawn from the demurrer to the evidence, attributes to the Amendment the
effect of forcing one admission because another and an
entirely different one is made, 8 and thereby compels conclusion of the litigation once and for all. The true effect
of imposing such a risk would not be to guarantee the
plaintiff a jury trial. It would be rather to deprive the
defendant (or the plaintiff if he were the challenger) of
that right; or, if not that, then of the right to challenge
the legal sufficiency of the opposing case. The Amendment was not framed or adopted to deprive either party
of either right. It is impartial in its guaranty of both.'
To posit assertion of one upon sacrifice of the other would
dilute and distort the full protection intended. The admitted validity of the practice on the motion for a new
trial goes far to demonstrate this. ' It negatives any idea
28

By conceding the full scope of an opponent's evidence and asserting its insufficiency in law, which is one thing, the challenger must be
taken, perforce the Amendment, also to admit he has no case, if the
other's evidence is found legally sufficient, which is quite another thing.
In effect, one must stake his case, not upon its own merit on the facts,

but on the chance he may be rightin regarding his opponentas wanting
in probative content. If he takes the gamble and loses, he pays with
his own case, regardless of its merit and without opportunity for the

jury to consider it. To force this choice and yet deny that afforded
by the directed verdict would be to imbed in the Constitution the hypertechnicality of common-law pleading and procedure in their heyday.
Cf. note 22, supra.
219Under that practice the moving party receives the benefit of
jury evaluation of his own case and of challenge to his opponent's for

insufficiency. If he loses on the challenge, the litigation is ended. But

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S.

that the challenge must be made at such a risk as the demurrer imposed. As for the other alternative, it is not
urged that the Amendment guarantees another trial
whenever challenge to the sufficiency of evidence is sustained. Cf. Berry v. United States, supra. That argument,. in turn, is precluded by the practice on demurrer
to the evidence.
Each of the classical modes of challenge, therefore, disproves the notion that the characteristic feature of the
other, for effect upon continuing the litigation, became
a part of the Seventh Amendment's guaranty to the exclusion of all others. That guaranty did not incorporate
conflicting constitutional policies, that challenge to an
opposing case must be made with the effect of terminating
the litigation finally and, at the same time, with the opposite effect of requiring another trial. Alternatives so contradictory give room, not for the inference that one or the
other is required, but rather for the view that neither is
essential."
this is not because, in making it, he is forced to admit his own is insufficient. It is rather for the reasons that the court finds the opposite
party's evidence is legally sufficient and the jury has found it outweighs his own. There is thus no forced surrender of one right from

assertion of another.
On the other hand, if the challenger wins, there is another trial. But
this is because he has sought it, not because the Amendment guarantees
it.
30 We have not given special consideration to the latest decisions
touching the Amendment's effects in the different situations where a
verdict has been taken, on the one hand, without reservation of the
question of the sufficiency of the evidence, Slocum v. New York Life
Ins. Co., 228 U. S. 364, and, on the other hand, with such a reservation, Baltimore & CarolinaLine v. Redman, 295 U. S. 654. Cf. Aetna
Ins. Co. v. Kennedy, 301 U. S. 389. Whatever may be the exact effect

of the latter and, more recently, of Rule 50 of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure upon the former de'cision, it suffices to say that, notwithstanding the sharp division engendered in the Slocum case, there
was no disagreement in it or in the Redman case concerning the validity

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

Opinion of the Court.

Finally, the objection appears to be directed generally
at the standards of proof judges have required for submission of evidence to the jury. But standards, contrary
to the objection's assumption, cannot be framed wholesale
for the great variety of situations in respect to which the
question arises." Nor is the matter greatly aided by substituting one general formula for another. It hardly
affords help to insist upon "substantial evidence" rather
than "some evidence" or "any evidence," or vice versa.
The matter is essentially one to be worked out inparticular
situations and for particular types of cases. Whatever
may be the general formulation, the essential requirement is that mere speculation be not allowed to do duty
for probative facts, after making due allowance for all
reasonably possible inferences favoring the party whose
case is attacked. The mere difference in labels used to
describe this standard, whether it is applied under the
demurrer to the evidence ' or on motion for a directed
verdict, cannot amount to a departure from "the rules
of the common law" which the Amendment requires to be
followed.' If there is abuse in this respect, the obvious
remedy is by correction on appellate review.
of 'the practice of directing a verdict. On the contrary, the opinions
make it plain that this was unquestioned and in fact conceded by all.
31 Cf. 9 Wigmore, Evidence (1940) 296-299.
Cf. e. g. Fowle v. Alexandria, 11 Wheat. 320, 323 (1826), a demurrer to the evidence admits "whatever the jury may reasonably
infer from the evidence." Pawling v. United States, 4 Cranch 219,
221-222 (1808). A demurrant to the evidence admits "the truth of
the testimony to which he demurs and also those conclusions of fact
which a jury may fairly draw from that testimony. Forced and
violent inferences he does not admit; but the testimony is to be taken
most strongly against him, and such conclusions as a jury might justifiably draw, the court ought to draw." Cocksedge v. Fanshaw, supra;
Patrick v. Hallett, supra; Stephens v. White, supra.
Cff. Hughes, J., dissenting in Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
228 U. S. 364, 408, and cases cited supra, note 22.
53,1559.-- 44- .. 29

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

Judged by this requirement, or by any standard other
than sheer speculation, we are unable to conclude that
one whose burden, by the nature of his claim, is to show
continuing and total disability for nearly twenty years
supplies the essential proof of continuity when he wholly
omits to show his whereabouts, activities or condition for
five years, although the record discloses evidence must
have been available, and, further, throws no light upon
three additional years, except for one vaguely described
and dated visit to his former home. Nothing in the
Seventh Amendment requires it should be allowed to join
forces with the jury system to bring about such a result.
That guaranty requires that the jury be allowed to make
reasonable inferences from facts proven in evidence having a reasonable tendency to sustain them. It permits
expert opinion to have the force of fact when based. on
facts which sustain it. But it does not require that experts or the jury be permitted to make inferences from
the withholding of crucial facts, favorable in their effects
to the party who has the evidence of them in his peculiar
knowledge and possession, but elects to keep it so. The
words "total and permanent" are the statute's, not our
own. They mean something more than incipient or
occasional disability. We hardly need add that we give
full credence to all of the testimony. But that cannot
cure its inherent vagueness or supply essential elements
omitted or withheld.
Accordingly, the judgment is
Affirmed.
with whom Ma. JUSTICE DOUGand MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur, dissenting:

MR.. JUSTICE BLACK,
LAS

The Seventh Amendment to the Constitution provides:
"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by
jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury shall

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United
States, than according to the rules of the common law."
The Court here re-examines testimony offered in a common law suit, weighs conflicting evidence, and holds that
the litigant may never take this case to a jury. The
founders of our government thought that trial of fact by
juries rather than by judges was an essential bulwark
of civil liberty For this reason, among others, they
adopted Article III, § 2 of the Constitution, and the Sixth
and Seventh Amendments. Today's decision marks a continuation of the gradual process of judicial erosion which
in one-hundred-fifty years has slowly worn away a major
portion of the essential guarantee of the Seventh
Amendment.
I.
Alexander Hamilton in The Federalist emphasized his
loyalty to the jury system in civil cases and declared that
jury verdicts should be re-examined, if at all, only "by a
second jury, either by remanding the cause to the court
below for a second trial of the fact, or by directing an issue immediately out of the Supreme Court." He divided
the citizens of his time between those who thought that
"I consider trial by jury as the only anchor ever yet imagined by
man, by which a government can be held to the principles of its constitution." 3 Writings of Thomas Jefferson (Washington ed.) 71.
The operation of the jury trial system in civil cases has been subject
to careful analysis; Clark and Shulman, Jury Trial in Civil Cases, 43
Yale L. Jour. 867; Harris, Is the Jury Vanishing, 7 N. Y. U. L. Q.
657. Its utility has been sharply criticized; Pound, Jury-England
and United States, 8 Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences 492; Mr.
Justice Miller, The System of Trial by Jury, 21 American L. Rev. 859
(1887). On the other hand, this Court has on occasion warmly praised
this mode of trial: "The right of jury trial in civil cases at common
law is a basic and fundamental feature of our system of federal jurisprudence which is protected by the Seventh Amendment. A right so
fundamental and sacred to the citizen, whether guaranteed by the
Constitution or provided by statute, should be jealously guarded by
the courts." Jacob v. New York, 315 U. S.752.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

jury trial was a "valuable safeguard to liberty" and those
who thought it was "the very palladium of free government." However, he felt it unnecessary to include in the
Constitution a specific provision placing jury trial in civil
cases in the same high position as jury trial in criminal
2
cases.
Hamilton's view, that constitutional protection of jury
trial in civil cases was undesirable, did not prevail. On
the contrary, in response to widespread demands from
the various State Constitutional Conventions, the first
Congress adopted the Bill of Rights containing the Sixth
and Seventh Amendments, intended to save trial in both
criminal and common law cases from legislative or judicial abridgment.' The first Congress expected the Seventh Amendment to meet the objections of men like Patrick Henry to the Constitution itself. Henry, speaking
in the Virginia Constitutional Convention, had expressed
the general conviction of the people of the Thirteen
States when he said, "Trial by jury is the best appendage
of freedom. . . . We are told that we are to part with
that trial by jury with which our ancestors secured their
lives and property. . . . I hope we shall never be induced, by such-arguments, to part with that excellent
mode of trial. No appeal can now be made as to fact in
common law suits. The unanimous v'rdict of impartial
men cannot be reversed." ' The first Congress, therefore,
2 For Hamilton's views on the place of the jury in the Constitution,
see3 The
Nos. 81 and 83.
"OneFederalist,
of the strongest
objections originally taken against the con-

stitution of the United States, was the want of an express provision
securing the right of trial by jury in civil cases." Parsons v. Bedford,
3 Pet. 433, 446. Of the seven States which,'in ratifying the Constitution, proposed amendments, six included proposals for the preservation
of jury trial in civil cases. Documents Illustrative of the Formation of the Constitution, House Doc. No. 398, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pp' 1019 (Massachusetts), 1026 (New Hampshire), 1029 (Virginia),
1036 (Ne-w York), 1046 (North Carolina), 1054 (Rhode Island).
413 Elliott's Debates,

324, 544. Emphasis added.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

399

BtLAcK, J., dissenting.

provided for trial of common law cases by a jury, even
when such trials were in the Supreme Court itself. 1 Stat.
73,81.
In 1789, juries occupied the principal place in the administration of justice. They were frequently in both
criminal I and civil cases the arbiters not only of fact but
of law. Less than three years after the ratification of
the Seventh Amendment, this Court called a jury in a civil
case brought under our original jurisdiction. There was
no disagreement as to the facts of the case. Chief Justice Jay, charging the jury for a unanimous Court, three
of whose members had sat in the Constitutional Convention, said: "For as, on the one hand, it is presumed that
juries are the best judges of facts; it is, on the other hand,
presumable that the court are the best judges of law.
But still, both objects are lawfully within your power of
decision." Georgia v. Brailsford, 3 Dall. 1, 4. Similar
views were held by state courts in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Illinois, Louisiana and presumably elsewhere.'
The principal method by which judges prevented cases
from going to the, jury in the Seventeenth and Eighteenth
Centuries was by the demurrer to the evidence, under
5 The early practice under which juries were empowered to determine
issues of law in criminal cases was not formally rejected by this Court
until 1894 in Sparf v. United States, 156 U. S. 51, when the subject
was exhaustively discussed. See also Howe, Juries as Judges of
Criminal Law, 52 Harv. L. Rev. 582. This jury privilege was once
considered of high value; in fact, a principal count in the impeachment proceedings against Justice Chase in 1805 was that he had denied
to a jury the right to determine both the law and the fact in a criminal
case-a charge which Justice Chase denied. Report of Trial of Hon.
Samuel Chase (1805), appendix p. 17. This privilege is still at least
nominally retained for the jury in some states. Howe, 614. For a
late 19th Century statement of this view see Kane v. Commonwealth,
89 Pa. St. 522 (1879).
6See Howe, supra, pp. 597, 601, 605, 610; Coffin v. Coffin, 4 Mass.
1, 25; Thayer on Evidence (1898 ed.) 254. And see Lectures given by
Justice Wilson as Professor of Law at the College of Philadelphia in
1790 and 1792, Thayer, 254, and Sparf v. United States, supra, at 158.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

which the defendant at the end of the trial admitted all
facts shown by the plaintiff as well as all inferences which
might be drawn from the facts, and asked for 4 ruling of
the Court on the "law of the case." ' See for example
Wright v. Pindar,(1647) Aleyn 18 and Pawling v. United
States, 4 Cranch 219. This practice fell into disuse in
England in 1793, Gibson v. Hunter, 2 H. Bl. 187, and in
the United States federal courts in 1826, Fowle v. Alexandria, 11 Wheat. 320. The power of federal judges to
comment to the jury on the evidence gave them additional
influence. M'Lanahanv. UniversalInsurance Co., 1 Pet.
170 (1828). The right of involuntary non-suit of a
plaintiff, which might have been used to expand judicial
power. at jury expense was at first denied federal courts.
Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Pet. 469; DeWolf v. Rabaud, 1 Pet.
476; but cf. Coughranv. Bigelow, 164 U. S.301 (1896).
As Hamilton had declared in The Federalist, the basic
judicial control of the jury function was in the court's
power to order a new trial.6 In 1830, this Court said:
"The only modes known to the common law to re-examine such facts, are the granting of a new trial by the court
where the issue was tried, or to which the record was
properly returnable; or the award of a venire facias de
novo, by an appellate court, for some error of law which
intervened in the proceedings." Parsons v. Bedford, supra, at 448..

That retrial by a new jury rather than .fac-

I assume for the purpose of this discussion without deciding the
point that the adoption of the Seventh Amendment was meant to have
no limiting effect on the contemporary demurrer to evidence practice.
8A method used in early England of reversal of a jury verdict by
the process of attaint which required a review of the facts by a new
jury of twenty-four and resulted in punishment of the first jury for
its error, had disappeared. Plucknett, A Concise History of the Common Law (2d ed.), 121.
9
Itis difficult to describe by any general proposition the circumstances under which a new trial would be allowed under early practice,
since each case was so dependent on its peculiar facts. The early
Pennsylvania rule was put as follows: "New trials are frequently neces-

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

tual reevaluation by a court is a constitutional right of
genuine value was restated as recently as Slocum v. New
1'ork Life Insurance Co., 228 U. S. 364.10
A long step toward the determination of fact by judges
instead of by juries was the invention of the directed verdict.1' In 1850, what seems to have been the first directed
sary, for the purpose of attaining complete justice; but the important
right of trial by jury requires they should never be granted without
solid and substantial reasons; otherwise the province of jurymen might
be often transferred to the judges, and they instead of the jury, would
become the real triers of the facts. A reasonable doubt, barely, that
justice has not been done, especially in cases where the value or importance of the cause is not great, appears to me to be too slender
a ground for them. But, whenever it appears with a reasonable certainty, that actual and manifest injustice is done, or that the jury
have proceeded on an evident mistake, either in point of law, or fact,
or contrary to strong evidence, or have grossly misbehaved themselves,
or given extravagant damages; the Court will always give an opportunity, by a new trial, of rectifying the mistakes of the former jury, and
of doing complete justice to the parties." Cowperthwaite v. Jones,
2 Dall. 55 (Phila. Ct. Cmn. Pleas 1790). For expressions in substantial
accord, see Maryland Insurance Co. v. Ruden's Administrator, 6
Cranch 338, 340; M'Lanahan v. Universal Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 170,
183. For similar State practice, see Utica Insurance Co. v. Badger,
3 Wend. 102 (1829); New York Firemen Insurance Co. v. Walden,
12"Johns. 513 (1815). The motion for new trial was addressed to the
discretion of the trial judge and was not reviewable in criminal or
civil cases. United States v. Daniel, 6 Wheat. 542, 548; Brown v.
Clarke, 4 How. 4, 15. The number of new trials permitted in a given
case were usually limited to two or three; see e. g. Louisville & Nashyille R. Co. v. Woodson, 134 U. S. 614. The power of the judge was thus
limited to his authority to return the case to a new jury for a new
decision.
10
Cf. Baltimore & CarolinaLine v. Redman, 295 U. S. 654; Aetna
Insurance Co. v. Kennedy, 301 U. S. 389. See Rule 50 (b) of the
Rules of Civil Procedure; Montgomery Ward & Co. v. Duncan, 311
U. S. 243; Berry v. United States, 312 U. S. 4,50.
111do not mean to minimize other forms of judicial control. In a
summary of important techniques of judicial domination of the jury,
Thayer lists the following: control by the requirement of a "reasonable
judgment"-i. e., one satisfactory to the judge; control of the rules

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BrAcx, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

verdict case considered by this Court, Parks v. Ross, 11
How. 362, was presented for decision. The Court held
that the directed verdict serves the same purpose as the
demurrer to the evidence, and that since there was "no
evidence whatever" 12 on the critical issue in the case, the
directed verdict was approved."3 The decision was an
innovation, a departure from the traditional rule restated
only fifteen years before in Greenleaf v. Birth, 9 Pet. 292,
299 (1835), in which this Court had said: "Where there
is no evidence tending to prove a particular fact, the court
are bound so to instruct the jury, when requested; but
they cannot legally give any instruction which shall take
from the jury the right of weighing the evidence and
determining what effect it shall have."
This new device contained potentialities for judicial
control of the jury which had not existed in the demurrer
to the evidence. In the first place, demurring to the eviof "presumption," cf. the dissenting opinion in New York Life Insurance Co. v. Gamer. 303 U. S. 161, 172; the control of the "definition of
language"; the control of rules of practice, and forms of pleading ("It
is remarkable how judges and legislatures in this country are unconsciously travelling back towards the old result of controlling the jury,
by requiring special verdicts and answers to specific questions. Logic
and neatness of legal theory have always called loud, at least in recent
centuries, for special verdicts. . . . Considerations of policy have
called louder for leaving to the jury a freer hand." 218); the control
of "mixed questions of law and fact"; the control of factual decisions
by appellate courts. Thayer on Evidence (1898 ed.) p. 208 et seq.
12 Counsel seeking the directed verdict said: "This prerogative of
the court is never exercised, but in cases where the evidence is so
indefinite and unsatisfactory, that nothing but wild, irrational conjecture, or licentious speculation, could induce the jury to pronounce
the verdict which is sought at their hands." Parks v. Ross, supra,
at 372.
13 See also, Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116 (1874); Oscanyan v.
Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261 (1880); and Baylis v. Travellers' Insurance
Co., 113 U. S. 316 (1884). For an excellent discussion of the history
of the directed verdict, see Hackett, Has a Trial Judge of a United
States Court the Right to Direct a Verdict?, 24 Yale L. Jour. 127.

GALLOWAY v. *UNITED STATES.
372

BLACK, J., dissenting.

dence was risky business, for in so doing the party not
only admitted the truth of all the testimony against him
but also all reasonable inferences which might be drawn
from it; and upon joinder in demurrer the case was
withdrawn from the jury while the court proceeded to give
final judgment either for or against the demurrant. Hopkins v. Railroad, 96 Tenn. 409, 34 S. W. 1029; Suydam v.
Williamson, 20 How. 427, 436; Bass v. Rublee, 76 Vt.
395, 400, 57 A. 965. Imposition of this risk was no mere
technicality; for by making withdrawal of a case from
the jury dangerous to the moving litigant's cause, the
early law went far to assure that facts would never be
examined except by a jury. Under the directed verdict
practice, the moving party takes no such chance, for if
his motion is denied, instead of suffering a directed verdict against him, his case merely continues into the hands
of the jury. The litigant not only takes no risk by a
motion for a directed verdict, but in making such a motion
gives himself two opportunities to avoid the jury's decision; for under the federal variant of judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the judge may reserve opinion on
the motion for a directed verdict and then give judgment
for the moving party after the jury has formally found
against him.1' In the second place, under the directed
verdict practice the courts soon abandoned the "admission
of all facts and reasonable inferences" standard referred
to, and created the so-called "substantial evidence" rule
which permitted directed verdicts even though there was
far more evidence in the case than a plaintiff would have
needed to withstand a demurrer.
The substantial evidence rule- did not spring into existence immediately upon the adoption of the directed
verdict device. For a few more years 1 federal judges
14

Rule 50 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure and note 10, supra.
13 In the period of the Civil War, the formula changed slightly but
its effect was the same-if the evidence so much as "tended to prove

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

held to the traditional rule that juries might pass finally
on facts if there was "any evidence" to support a party's
contention. The rule that a case must go to the jury
unless there was "no evidence" was completely repudiated in Improvement Co. v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442, 447
(1871), upon which the Court today relies in part. There
the Court declared that "some" evidence was not
enough-there must be evidence sufficiently persuasive
to the judge so that he thinks "a jury can properly proceed." The traditional rule was given an ugly name,
"the scintilla rule," to hasten its demise. For a time,
traces of the old formula remained, as in Randall v.
B. & 0. R. Co., 109 U. S. 478, but the new spirit prevailed.
See for example Pleasants v. Fant, supra, and Commissioners v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278. The same transition from
jury supremacy to jury subordination through judicial
decisions took place in state courts."8
Later cases permitted the development of -added judicial Control." New and totally unwarranted formulas,
which should surely be eradicated from the law at the first
opportunity, were added as recently as 1929 in Gunning
v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, which, by sheerest dictum, made
new encroachments on the jury's constitutional functions. There it was announced that a judge might weigh
the evidence to determine whether he, and not the jury,
the position" of the party, the case was for the jury. Drakely v. Gregg,
8 Wall. 242, 268; Hickman v. Jones, 9 Wall. 197, 201; Barney v. Schmeider, 9 Wall. 248, 253. Cf. United States v. Breitling, 20 How. 252;
Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How. 343, 359.
16 For examples of early respect for juries, see Morton v. Fairbanks,
11 Pick. 368 (1831); Way vlIllinois CentralR. Co., 35 Iowa 585 (1873).
For the development in Illinois, see 8 Ill. L. Rev. 287, 481-486. For
the Pennsylvania development, compare Fitzwater v. Stout, 16 Pa. St.
22, and Thomas v. Thomas, 21 Pa. St. 315, with Hyatt v. Johnston,
91 Pa. St. 196 200.
17 One additional device was the remittitur practice which gives the
court a method of controlling jury findings as to damages. Arkansas
Valley Co. v. Mann, 130 U. S. 69.

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

thought it was "overwhelming" for either party, and then
direct a verdict. Cf. Pence v. United States, 316 U. S.
332, 340. Gunning v. Cooley, at 94, also suggests, quite
unnecessarily for its decision, that "When a plaintiff produces evidence that is consistent with an hypothesis that
the defendant is not negligent, and also with one that he
is, his proof tends to establish neither." This dictum,
which assumes that a judge can weigh conflicting evidence
with mathematical precision and which wholly deprives
the jury of the right to resolve that conflict, was applied
in Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Chamberlain, 288 U. S. 333.
With it, and other tools, jury verdicts on disputed facts
have been set aside or directed verdicts authorized so. regularly as to make the practice commonplace, while the
motion for directed verdict itself has become routine.
See for example Southern Railway Co. v. Walters, 284
U. S. 190; Atlantic Coast Line v. Temple, 285 U. S. 143;
Lumbra v. United States, 290 U. S. 551; Pence v. United
States, supra; and De Zon v. United States, 318 U. S.
660.
Even Gunning v. Cooley, at 94, acknowledged that
'issues that depend on the credibility of witnesses . . .
are to be decided by the jury." 1" Today the Court comes
dangerously close to weighing the credibility of a witness
and rejecting his testimony because the majority do not
believe it.
The story thus briefly told depicts the constriction of a
constitutional civil right and should not be continued.
18 In Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41, 51, this Court said: "It was also
their [the jury's] province to judge of the credibility of the witnesses,
and the weight of their testimony, as tending, in a greater or less degree,
to prove the facts relied on; as these were matters with which the court
could not interfere, the plaintiff's right to the instruction asked, must
depend upon the opinion of the court, on a finding by the jury in favour
of the defendant, on every matter which the evidence conduced to
prove; giving full credence to the witnesses produced by him, and dis.
crediting the witness for the plaintiff."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

Speaking of an aspect of this problem, a contemporary
writer saw the heart of the issue: "Such a reversal of
opinion [as that of a particular state court concerning
the jury function], if it were isolated, might have little
significance, but when many other courts throughout the
country are found to be making the same shift and to be
doing so despite the provisions of statutes and constitutions there is revealed one aspect of that basic conflict
in the legal history of America-the conflict between the
people's aspiration for democratic government," and the
judiciary's desire for the orderly supervision of public
affairs by judges." "
The language of the Seventh Amendment cannot easily
be improved by formulas.*' The statement of a district
judge in Tarter v. United States, 17 F. Supp. 691, 692693, represents, in my opinion, the minimum meaning of
the Seventh Amendment:
"The Seventh Amendment to the Constitution guarantees a jury trial in law cases, where there is substantial
1)Another phase of this same conflict arises in the use of judicial
power to puziish for contempt of court without allowance of jury trial.
Nelles and King, Contempt by Publication, 28 Col. L. Rev. 400, 524,
and, for a sharp indictment of the free use of contempt jurisdiction as
basically undemocratic, 553; Nye v. United States, 313 U. S. 33;
Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252.
20 Howe, supra, 615, 616. Howe continues: "What seems discreditable to the judiciary in the story which I have related is the fierce
resolution and deceptive ingenuity with which the courts have refused
to carry out the unqualified mandate of statutes and constitutions.
It is possible to feel that the final solution of the problem has been
wise without approving the frequently arrogant methods which courts
have used inreaching that result."
21This Court has said of one type of case in Richmond & Danville
R. Co. v. Powers, 149 U. S. 43, 45 (1893): "It is well settled that
where there is uncertainty as to the existence of either negligence or
contributory negligence, the question is not one of law, but of fact,
and to be settled by a jury; and this, whether the uncertainty arises
from a conflict in the testimony, or because the facts being undisputed,
fair minded men will honestly draw different conclusions from them."

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

BLudx, J., dissenting.

evidence to support the claim of the plaintiff in an action.
If a single witness testifies to a fact sustaining the issue
between the parties, or if reasoning minds might reach different conclusions from the testimony of a single witness,
one of which would substantially support the issue of the
contending party, the issue must be left to the jury. Trial
by jury is a fundamental guaranty of the rights of the
people, and judges should not search the evidence with
meticulous care to deprive litigants of jury trials."
The call for the true application of the Seventh Amendment is not to words, but to the spirit of honest desire to
see that constitutional right preserved. Either the judge
or the jury must decide facts and, to the extent that we
take this responsibility, we lessen the jury function. Our
duty to preserve this one of the Bill of Rights may be peculiarly difficult, for here it is our own power which we must
restrain. We should not fail to meet the expectation of
James Madison, who, in advocating the adoption of the
Bill of Rights, said: "Independent tribunals of justice will
consider themselves in a peculiar manner the guardians
of those rights; . . . they will be naturally led to resist
every encroachment upon rights expressly stipulated for
in the Constitution by the declaration of right." So few
of these cases come to this Court that, as a matter of fact,
the judges of the District Courts and the Circuit Courts of
Appeals are the primary custodians of the Amendment.
As for myself, I believe that a verdict should be directed,
if at all, only when, without weighing the credibility of the
witnesses, there is in the evidence no room whatever for
honest difference of opinion over the factual issue in controversy. I shall continue to believe that in all other
cases a judge should, in obedience to the command of the
Seventh Amendment, not interfere with the jury's function. Since this is a matter of high constitutional importance, appellate courts should be alert to insure the preservation of this constitutional right even though each
case necessarily turns on its peculiar circumstances.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

II.
The factual issue for determination here is whether the
petitioner incurred a total and permanent disability not
later than May 31, 1919. It is undisputed that the petitioner's health was sound in 1918, and it is evidently conceded that he was disabled at least since 1930. When,
in the intervening period, did the disability take place?
A doctor who testified diagnosed the petitioner's case as
a schizophrenic form of dementia praecox. He declared
it to be sound medical theory that while a normal man can
retain his sanity in the face of severe mental or physical
shock, some persons are born with an inherent instability
so that they are mentally unable to stand sudden and
severe strain. The medical testimony was that this petitioner belongs to the latter class and that the shock of
actual conflict on the battle front brought on the incurable
affliction from which he now suffers. The medical witness
testified that the dominant symptoms of the condition are
extreme introversion and preoccupation with personal
interests, a persecution complex, and an emotional instability which may be manifested by extreme exhilaration
alternating with unusual depression or irrational outbursts. Persons suffering from this disease are therefore
unable to engage in continuous employment.
The petitioner relies on the testimony of wartime and
postwar companions and superiors to show that his present
mental condition existed on the crucial date. There is
substantial testimony from which reasonable men might
conclude that the petitioner was insane from the date
claimed.
Two witnesses testify as to the petitioner's mental irresponsibility while he was in France. The most striking
incident in this testimony is the account of his complete
breakdown while on guard duty as a result of which he
falsely alarmed his military unit by screaming that the

GALLOWAY t. UNITED STATES.
372.

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

Germans were coming when they were not and was silenced
only by being forceably bound and gagged. There was also
other evidence that Galloway became nervous, irritable,
quarrelsome and turbulent after he got to France. The
Court disposes of this testimony, which obviously indicates
some degree of mental unbalance, by saying no more than
that it "does not prove he was insane." No reason is
given, nor can I imagine any, why a jury should not be
entitled to consider this evidence and draw its own conclusions.
The testimony of another witness, O'Neill, was offered
to show that the witness had known the petitioner both
before and after the war, and that after the war the witness
found the petitioner a changed man; that the petitioner
imagined that he was being persecuted; and that the petitioner suffered from fits of melancholia, depression and
weeping. If O'Neill's testimony is to be believed, the
petitioner suffered the typical symptoms of a schizophreniac for some years after his return to this country;
therefore if O'Neill's testimony is believed, there can be
no reasonable doubt about the right of a jury to pass on
this case. The Court analyzes O'Neill's testimony for
internal consistency, criticizes his failure to remember the
details of his association with the petitioner fifteen years
before his appearance in this case, and concludes that
O'Neill's evidence shows no more than that "petitioner was
subject to alternating periods of gaiety and depression for
some indefinite period." This extreme emotional instability is an accepted symptom of the disease from which
the petitioner suffers. If he exhibited the same symptoms in 1922, it is, at the minimum, probable that the condition has been continuous since an origin during the war.
O'Neill's testimony coupled with the petitioner's present
condition presents precisely the type of question which a
jury should resolve.

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

The petitioner was in the Navy for six months in 1920,
until he was discharged for bad conduct; and later was in
the Army during 1921 and a part of 1922, until he deserted.
The testimony of his Commanding Officer while he was in
the Army, Col. Matthews, is that the petitioner had
"periods of gaiety and exhilaration" and was then "depressed as if he had had a hangover"; that petitioner tried
to create disturbances and dissatisfy the men; that he
suffered from a belief that he was being treated unfairly;
and that generally his actions "were not those of a normal
man." The Colonel was not a doctor and might well not
have recognized insanity had he seen it; as it was, he concluded that the petitioner was an alcoholic and a narcotic
addict. However, the officer was unable, upon repeated
investigations, to discover any actual use of narcotics. A
jury fitting this information into the general pattern of
the testimony might well have been driven to the conclusion that the petitioner was insane at the time the Colonel
had him under observation.
All of this evidence, if believed, showed a man, healthy
and normal before he went to the war, suffering for several years after he came back from a disease which had
the symptoms attributed to schizophrenia and who was
insane from 1930 until his trial. Under these circumstances, I think that the physician's testimony of total
and permanent disability by reason of continuous insanity from 1918 to 1938 was reasonable. The fact that
there was no direct testimony for a period of five years,
while it might be the basis of fair argument to the jury
by the Government, does not, as the Court seems to believe, create a presumption against the petitioner so strong
that his case must be excluded from the jury entirely.
Even if during these five years the petitioner was spasmodically employed, we could not conclude that he was
not totally and permanently disabled. Berry v. United
States, 312 U. S. 450, 455. It is not doubted that

GALLOWAY v. UNITED STATES.
372

BLACK, J., dissenting.

schizophrenia is permanent even though there may be a
momentary appearance of recovery.
The court below concluded that the petitioner's admission into the military service between 1920 and 1923
showed conclusively that he was not totally and permanently disabled. Any inference which may be created by
the petitioner's admission into the Army and the Navy
is more than met by his record of court-martial, dishonorable discharge, and desertion, as well as by the explicit
testimony of his Commanding Officer, Colonel Matthews.
This case graphically illustrates the injustice resulting
from permitting judges to direct verdicts instead of requiring them to await a jury decision and then, if necessary, allow a new trial. The chief reason given for approving a directed verdict against this petitioner is that
no evidence except expert medical testimony was offered
for a five to eight year period. Perhaps, now that the
petitioner knows he has insufficient e'vidence to satisfy
a judge even though he may have enough to satisfy a
jury, he would be able to fill this time gap to meet any
judge's demand. If a court would point out on a motion
for new trial that the evidence as to this particular period
was too weak, the petitibner would be given an opportunity to buttress the physician's evidence. If, as the
Court believes, insufficient evidence has been offered to
sustain a jury verdict for the petitioner, we should at least
authorize a new trial. Cf. Garrison v. United States,
62 F. 2d 41, 42.
I believe that there is a reasonable difference of opinion
as to whether the petitioner was totally and permanently
disabled by reason of insanity on May 31, 1919, and that
his case therefore should have been allowed to go to the
jury. The testimony of fellow soldiers, friends, supervisors, and of a medical expert whose integrity and
ability is not challenged cannot be rejected by any
process available to me as a judge.
531559-44-30

