OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

That interest must be substantial and immediate if the
standard of the statute and if the constitutional requirements of case or controversy, as interpreted by the Sanders and the Scripps-Howard cases, are to be satisfied.
It is necessary to show in effect that KOA has sustained
or is about to sustain some direct and substantial injury (see Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 488)an injury which for the purpose of this case must result
from electrical interference. The Sanders case and the
Scripps-Howard case do not dispense with that requirement. They merely hold that an appellant has his case
decided in light of the standards of the public interest,
not by the criteria which give him a standing to appeal.
I do not understand that the opinion of the Court takes
a contrary view. It only holds on this phase of the case
that KOA made an adequate showing under § 402 (b).
I disagree with that conclusion.

UNITED STATES

EX REL.

TENNESSEE VALLEY

AUTHORITY v. POWELSON, ASSIGNEE AND
SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST OF SOUTHERN

STATES POWER COMPANY

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 3.

Argued March 12, 13, 1942.

Reargued March 1, 2, 1943.-

Decided May 17, 1943.
1. Upon this appeal under § 25 of the Tennessee Valley Authority
Act, the Circuit Court of Appeals complied with the requirement
that it dispose of the matter "upon the record, without regard to

the awards or findings theretofore made," and. fix the value.

P. 272.

2. In a proceeding to condemn lands under § 25 of the Tennessee
Valley Authority Act, the burden of establishing their value rests
upon the respondent landowner. P. 273.
3. In a proceedirg under § 25 of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act,
the owner sought to establish a special value for the lands con-

U. S. EX REL. T. V. A. v. POWELSON.
266

267

Counsel for Parties.

demned upon the ground of their special adaptability, when united
with other tracts owned by him and with tracts owned by strangers,
for use in forming a multiple-dam, hydro-electric plant which he
projected. Held:
(1) That in order to permit consideration of such special adapta, bility th,,re must be a reasonable probability of the condemned
tract's being thus combined with other tracts in the near future,
otherwise the special use would be too remote and speculative to
have any legitimate effect upon the valuation. P. 275.
(2) The landowner's privilege to use the power of eminent domain-granted by the State in which the lands were situate, but
not exercised, and revocable by the State-may not be considered
in determining whether there is a reasonable probability that the
lands condemned could be so united with other tracts into the
projected power plant in the reasonably near future. Without the
power to condemn, the chances of incorporating lands as contemplated by the project are too remote and slim to have any legitimate effect on the valuation. P. 276.
4 In condemning lands for a federal project, the United States is not
required to make compensation for the loss of a business opportumity, dependent upon their owner's privilege to use the state
power of eminent domain in acquiring other lands, where such
privilege has not been exercised and is revocable by the State, and
where the State need not make such compensation were it the
sponsor of the project and the taker of the lands in question. P. 284.
118 F. 2d 79, reversed.

314 U. S. 594, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed with modifications a judgment of the District Court, 33 F. Supp. 519, in
a condemnation case.
CERTIORARI,

Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. William C. Fitts, Jr.
made the original argument for the United States; and
Mr. Fitts the reargument. Messrs. Arnold Raum and
Charles J. McCarthy were on the briefs.
Messrs. George Lyle Jones and George H. Wright argued
the cause on the reargument, and Mr. Arthur T. Vanderbilt on the original argument, for respondent.
531559-44-----21

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.
MP.

319 U. S.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case arises out of condemnation by the United
States on behalf of the Tennessee Valley Authority of

about 12,000 acres of land in North Carolina lying in and
along the Hiwassee River, a major tributaky of the Tennessee. The land involved in the case was owned by the
respondent Southern States Power Company, a North
Carolina corporation, and by its wholly owned subsidiary,
the Union Power Company, a Georgia corporation. Since
condemnation, the Southern States Power Company has
assigned its property interest and rights arising out of
these proceedings to the respondent W. V. N. Powelson,
its sole stockholder. For convenience Powelson and
Southern States will be referred to interchangeably as
"respondent."
On January 28, 1936, when the original declaration of
taking was filed and these proceedings began, Southern
States and Union Power owned a small hydroelectric
generating plant on the Nottely River, a tributary of the
Hiwassee. This was known as the Murphy plant. It had
a distribution system which supplied the town of Murphy,
North Carolina, and surrounding territory. These companies also owned about 22,000 acres of land on both
sides of the Hiwassee and NottelyRivers. These included
lands at four dam sites which are known as the Powelson
(site of the Hiwassee aam), Appalachia, Murphy and
Nottely sites, a large part of the land 'required for the
Powelson and Appalachia projects, and some of the land
required for the Murphy and Nottely projects. Powelson, an experienced hydroelectric engineer, began as early
as 1913 and continued until 1931 to explore, survey, and
acquire these lands and to develop and promote a plan
for constructing an integrated four-dam hydroelectric.
plant on -these rivers and at these sites. The actual cost

U. S. EX REL. T. V. A. v. POWELSON.
266

Opinion -of the Court.

of the lands involved in this case, as distinguished from
the total investment in them,' was $277,821.56.
Southern States is successor to Carolina-Tennessee
Power Co., created by a special act of the North Carolina
legislature 2 in 1909. Carolina-Tennessee was granted
broad powers and was- authorized by the State to take by
eminent domain riparian lands and water rights along
any non-navigable stream of North Carolina.8
The lands condemned by the Government in the present
proceedings constitute a part of the site of its Hiwassee
dam, a multiple-purpose project constructed by the
Tennessee Valley Authority on the Hiwassee River as
part of the development of the Tennessee River system
for hydroelectric power production, navigation, and flood
control. See Report to the Congress on the Unified DeThe sum of $1,061,942.53 had been invested by respondent through
1935 in the entire 22,000 acres of land owned by it. Of this sum
Powelson personally contributed $586,196.21. The total expenditure
included $188,271.86 for lands not condemned, $73,412.68 for taxes,
$82,480,81 for New York office expense, $94,074.71 for legal expenses,
$14,321.68 for travelling expenses, $64,358.46 for construction of transmission lines for and operation of the Murphy plant, $194,487.50 for
interest and amortization as respects the bonds on the Murphy plant,
and expenditures for surveying, engineering studies, advertising and
furniture.
2 N. C., Priv. L. 1909, c. 76, p. 185.
"A rival, the Hiawassee River Power Company, organized under
the general laws of the State, proceeded to acquire lands and rights
by contract, deed and condemnation, and threatened to construct a
hydroelectric plant on the Hiwassee River which would interfere with
the development projected by Carolina-Tennessee. Carolina-Tennessee engaged in a long litigation to establish its rights as against its
rival. That litigation established the prior and dominant right of
respondent's predecessor to develop the water power in this territory
and sustained its claim to condemn the land and water rights of the
Hiawassee River Power Company. Carolina-Tennessee Power Co. v.
Hiawassee River Power Co., 171 N. C. 248, 88 S. E. 349 (1916), 175
N. C. 668, 96 S.E. 99 (1918), 186 N.. C. 179, 119 S.E. 213 (1923),
188 N. C. 128, 123 S. E. 312 (1924).

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

velopment of the Tennessee River System, Tennessee Valley Authority, March 1936, pp. 18-20, 96, 99. The dam
itself is situated on land acquired from the respondent and
known as the Powelson site. It was stipulated that the
Hiwassee River is not navigable at the site of the Hiwassee dam or in any part of its course through respondent's land.'
The property condemned includes the Murphy dam
and hydroelectric plant on the Nottely River and about
12,000 acres of land along the Hiwassee River in North
Carolina. Of these, some 2,000 acres have been cleared
and cultivated. The remaining area is rough and mountainous, consisting in large part of rock surface, mountain
peaks and gorges. Much of the land was inaccessible
at the time of the taking, there being practically no highways thereon, although there were some cartways.
The condemnation proceedings were conducted pursuant to § 25 of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of
1933, c. 32, 48 Stat. 58, 16 U. S. C. § 831x." Under the
procedure therein specially prescribed for condemnations
on behalf of the Tennessee Valley Authority, the District
Court appointed three commissioners to take testimony
and to determine the value of the property. The Government contends that the property was worth from $95,000
to $165,000. Respondent sought to establish a value of
$7,500,000. Respondent's valuation was based on the
theory that the property condemned, together with other
property owned by respondent, could be united with numerous other tracts owned by strangers for the construction of an elaborate four-dam hydroelectric project. Only
one of the four projected dams was to be located on the
, And see Tennessee River and Tributaries, H. Doe. No. 328, 71st
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 216.
5

See also, 46 Stat. 1421, 40 U. S. C. §258a; §4 (h) (i) of the

Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 4933, 48 Stat. 58-61, 16 U. S. C.

§831c (h) (i).

U. S.
266

EX REL.

T. V. A. v. POWELSON.

Opinion of the Court.

property condemned, viz. at the site of the Hiwassee dam,
which, taken alone, was not considered commercially
feasible for power development. The Commission found
that the land condemned was suitable for use as the site
of a hydroelectric power plant; that such use furnished
the basis for its greatest inherent value; and that it had
a value of $1,437,000,' though its cost was only $277,821.56. The Commission awarded $253,000 in addition
as severance damages in respect of lands not condemned
but remaining in the ownership of Southern States and
Union Power.
Both parties sought review of the award before the
three-judge District Court for which § 25 of the Tennessee
Valley Authority Act makes provision. The District Court
reduced the value of the land condemned to $976,289.40
and severance damages to $211,791.23., $100,000 of which
was for the Murphy distributioin system. Interest was
added from the filing of the initial declarations of taking.
33 F. Supp. 519. The Circuit Curt of Appeals excluded
severance damages for the taking of the Murphy plant on
the Nottely River; and also (xcluded the $18,907.02
awarded as severance damages v ith respect to land held
by. Union Power unless within th !rty days after the mandate was filed in the District Dourt that corporation
should be made a party so as tc become bound by the
judgment. With these modific ttions it affirmed the
judgment of the District Court. .18 F. 2d 79. The case
is here on a petition for writ (-f certiorari which we
granted because of the public importance of the issues
raised.
I. A preliminary question relate, to the scope of review
by the Circuit Court of Appeals Lnder § 25 of the Act.
OThe Commission also awarded 8110,0(0 for the Murphy plant,
which sum had been deposited by the Unil d States when it filed its
declaration of taking.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

That section provides for the appointment of commissioners, who are "to examine into the value of the lands
sought to be condemned, to conduct hearings and receive
evidence, and generally to take such appropriate steps as
may be proper for the determination of the value" of the
lands. The commissioners are required to report such
value and make an award. Review of the action of the
commissioners is by a three-judge district court, which
"shall pass de novo upon the lroceedings had before the
commissioners, may view the property, and may take
additional evidence. Upon such hearings the said judges
shall file their own award, fixing therein the value of the
property sought to be condemned, regardless of the award
previously made by the said commissioners." There is
an appeal from that court to the circuit court of appeals,
which "shall upon the hearing on said appeal dispose of
the same upon the record, without regard to the awards
or findings theretofore made by the commissioners or the
district judges, and such circuit court of appeals shall
thereupon fix the value of the said property sought to be
condemned."
It is contended that the Circuit Court of Appeals did
not perform the functions which § 25 placed -upon it. That
court stated that § 25 permitted it to consider thefindings
under review "in the light of the record." 118 F. 2d p.
83. It gave weight to the opportunity of the commissioners and judges who took the testimony to see and hear the
witnesses. But while it adverted to those circumstances
and findings, and modified and "affirmed" the judgment of
the three-judge court, we cannot say that it did not perform the functions which Congress gave it under § 25.
The purpose of § 25 was to free the Circuit Court of
Appeals from the strictures commonly applicable to its
review of disputed questions of fact. Under § 25 it does
not sit as a "court of errors." United States v. Reynolds,
115 F. 2d 294, 296. Its duty is to dispose of the matter

U. S. EX MEL. T. V. A. v. POWELSON.
266

Opinion of the Court.

"upon the record, without regard to the awards or findings
theretofore made" and to fix the value. But it need not
blind itself to the special advantages of the tribunals below
in evaluating the evidence. A trial de novo with the fresh
taking of evidence is not required. An independent revaluation of the property condemned is contemplated.
And that requirement was met here.
II. Sec. 25 of the Act authorizes awards covering "the
value of the lands sought to be condemned." The storm
center of this controversy is whether water power value
may be included in respondent's award.
It is argued on behalf of petitioner that even though
the Hiwassee River is non-navigable throughout this part
of its course, compensation for the loss of any supposed
power value is no more permissible than in case of a navigable stream. It is pointed out that United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, held that there is "no
private property in the flow" of a navigable stream.
United States v. Appalachian Power Co., 311 U. S. 377,
427. And it is contended that although the Hiwassee
River is non-navigable at the points in question, the flow
at those places has such a direct and immediate effect upon
the navigable portion of the river farther downstream as to
give the United States the same plenary control over both
the navigable and non-navigable portions of the river
(United States v.'Appalachian Power Co., supra; Oklahoma v. Atkinson Co., 313 U. S. 508), thereby bringing into
play the rule bf the Chandler-Dunbarcase. Cf. United
States v. Kelly, 243 U. S. 316. We do not stop to consider
that question. For if we assume, without deciding, that
rights in the "flow" of a non-navigable stream created by
local law are property for which the United States must pay
compensation when it condemns the lands of the riparian
owner, the water power value which respondent sought
to establish cannot be allowed.
The burden of establishing the value of the lands sought
to be condemned was on respondent. Ralph v. Hazen,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

93 F. 2d 68, 70; Welch v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 108
F. 2d 95, 101. Respondent endeavored to carry that burden by introducing evidence that the property condemned
had a fair market value of $7,500,000. As we have said,
the theory was that the lands condemned, together with
other property owned by respondent, could be united with
several hundred other tracts owned by strangers and that
a four-dam hydroelectric project could be constructed
upon all those lands." As we have noted, only one of the
four hypothetical dams was to be located on the lands
condemned. That was at the Hiwassee dam site, which,
considered alone, was not contended to be profitable for
power development. Although respondent owned or controlled some of the other lands necessary for the four-dam
project, about half of them were in adverse hands. It
was practically conceded that the acquisition of all the
property necessary for the four-dam development could
not, in all reasonable probability, be accomplished without resort to the power of eminent domain. It was insisted, however, that since that power had been conferred
by North Carolina, the case should be viewed as if respondent owned every foot of land required for the hypothetical project. Respondent proceeded from that assumption to other assumptions: an estimated cost of
$30,000,000 for the four-dam project; an annual output
of 512,500,000 kwh of so-called reserve, or superprimary,
or "Saluda-type" energy;' a production cost of electricity
7 While respondent owned most of the lands necessary for the Appalachia reservoir, about half of those not yet acquired lay in the
state of Tennessee, in which, so far as appears, it had no power of eminent domain. And, according to respondent's estimates of the lands
necessary for the other three projects, it had yet to acquire 22% of
the Powelson reservoir, 73% of the Nottely, and 96% of the Murphy.
8 The theory was that the projected reservoirs would store water
during the wet season and that the power would be sold neighboring
utilities during the dry season. The name given that type of power is
said to derive from the fact that Lexington Water Power Co. sold the
output of its Saluda plant to Duke Power Co. on a similar basis.

U. S. EX REL. T. V. A. v. POWELSON.
266

Opinion of the Court.

of 3.75 mills per kwh; and a selling price of 6.34 mills
per kwh for all the energy produced. On the basis of
those assumptions an assumed net return was computed.
That assumed net return was capitalized at a given rate
and a portion of that sum, i. e. $7,500,000, was allocated to
the lands in question. Petitioner challenged most of
those assumptions. It introduced evidence that the cost
of the four-dam project would be higher than respondent
assumed; that the total annual fixed charges of the project would exceed those estimated; that the production
of energy would be less, the cost per kwh would be greater,
and the sale price per kwh would be lower than respondent estimated. The Commissioners, the District Court
and the Circuit Court of Appeals found on the basis of respondent's estimates of the four-dam project that the
lands had a water power value, and that their availability
for power purposes constituted the chief element of their
value and the basis for the highest value in the property.
Allagreed, however, that respondent's estimate of $7,500,000 was too high. And as we have noted, the District
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that
the fair market value of the lands for power purposes was
some $976,000.
An owner of lands sought to be condemned is entitled
to their "market value fairly determined." United States
v. Miller, 317 U. S. 369, 374. That value may reflect not
only the use to which the property is presently devoted
but also that use to which it may be readily converted.
Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403; McCandless v. United
States, 298 U. S. 342. In that connection the value may
be determined in light of the special or higher use of the
land when combined with other parcels; it need not be
measured merely by the use to which the land is or can be
put as a separate tract. McGovern v. New York, 229
U. S. 363. But in order for that special adaptability to
be considered, there must be a reasonable probability of
the lands in question being combined with other tracts

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

for that purpose in the reasonably near future. Olson v.
United States, 292 U. S. 246, 255. In absence of such a
showing, the chance of their being united for that special
use is regarded "as too remote and speculative to have
any legitimate effect upon the valuation." McGovern v.
New York, supra, p. 372.
Respondent seeks to avoid that difficulty by reliance on
the power of eminent domain granted by North Carolina.
The argument is that the means of effecting a combination of lands is not important-it is whether the landowner had a reasonable chance of doing it. This Court,
however, held in the McGovern case that in estimating
that chance or probability "the power of effecting the
change by eminent domain must be left out." 229 U. S.
p. 372. And that view was followed in New York v. Sage,
239 U. S. 57, 61. Respondent attempts to distinguish
those cases on the ground that, since the landowners in
question did not have the power of eminent domain, they
were merely denied recovery for a value dependent upon
a combination which they could not reasonably expect
to effect. But the thrust of the rule is deeper. If the
owner's claim against the sovereign were increased by reason of the power of eminent domain, then the very existence of the right of condemnation would confer on the
owner ''a value for which he must be paid when the right
is exercised." Hale, Value to the Taker in Condemnation Cases, 31 Col. Rev. 1, 13.
The fact that the owner also has a power of eminent
domain does not alter the situation. See Tacoma v. Nisqually Power Co., 57 Wash. 420, 433, 107 P. 199. The
grant of the power of eminent domain is a mere revocable
privilege for which a state cannot be required to make
compensation. Adirondack Ry. Co. v. New York, 176 U. S.
335; Ramapo Water Co. v. New York, 236 U. S. 579; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co.,
258 U. S. 13, A revocation of that privilege is but a recall

U. S. EX REL. T. V. A.
266

v. POWELSON.

277

Opinion of the Court..

of a part of its sovereign power for which no price may be
exacted. North Carolina follows that view. Yadkin River
Power Co. v. Whitney Co., 150 N. C. 31, 63 S. E. 188. Accordingly it seems clear that if North Carolina rather than
the United States were constructing this public project
and condemning the identical lands for the purpose, respondent need not be compensated for the loss of an opportunity to develop a power project through utilization of
the right to condemn. In case this was North Carolina's
project respondent's chances of combining these numerous
tracts into one ownership for a power project would be
measured without reference to the power of eminent domain. The inclusion of eminent domain would be but an
indirect method of making North Carolina pay for the
destruction or impairment of the privilege.' That the
private company's privilege to use the power of eminent
domain need not be reflected in the valuation if the property were taken by the state is indicated by those few
cases which seem to have reached the point. See Tacoma
v. Nisqually Power Co., supra. That result is the necessary import of this Court's ruling in Sears v. Akron, 246
U. S. 242. Suit was brought in that case by the trustee
of the property of an Ohio corporation to enjoin the City
of Akron from constructing a dam and reservoir on the
Cuyahoga River. The corporation had received from the
State of Ohio the right to construct and operate a power
system on the river. And it was also given by the state
9

We do not have here the question of a market value affected by
market prices which may reflect to some extent the power to condemn. As to that situation this Court stated in Olson v. United States,
supra, p. 256: "It is common knowledge that public service corporations and others having that power [eminent domain] frequently are
actual or potential competitors, not only for tracts held in single ownership but also for rights of way, locations, sites and other areas requiring
the union of numerous parcels held by different owners. And, to the
extent that probable defihand by prospective purchasers or condemnors
affects market value, it is to be taken into account."

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

the power of eminent domain so that it might acquire the
property necessary for the project. In that case the land
acquisition program of the private company apparently
was not as far advanced as was respondent's in the present
case. But the difference in degree of development is unimportant since in each case the private project was still
inchoate and had not progressed beyond the promotional
phase when the public project was launched. This Court
held that although the project constructed by the City
of Akron rhight imperil or wholly defeat the company's
project, there was no impairment of contract, and no taking or appropriation of the company's property. In the
latter connection Mr. Justice Brandeis, speaking for the
Court, stated that it was clear "that Ohio retained the
power as against one of its creatures, to revoke any such
right to appropriate property until it had been acted upon
by acquiring the property authorized to be taken." 246
U. S. p. 250. It was accordingly held that the city was
free as against the company "to appropriate any of the
land or any of the water rights which might otherwise have
come under the development described in its certificate of
incorporation." Id. pp. 249-250.
This is a case of first impression. No precedent has
been advanced which suggests that a different measure of
compensation should be required where the United States
rather than the state is the taker of the property for a
public project. Nor has any reason been suggested why
as a matter of principle or policy there should be a different measure of compensation in such a case. It has
long been assumed that in other respects the national
government was under "no greater limitation" by reason
of the Fifth Amendment than were the states by virtue
of the Fourteenth. Hamilton v. Kentucky Distillertea
Co., 251 U. S. 146, 156. That view is implicit in condempntion cases whero the 4amount of just compensation rev

U. S.
266

EX

REL.

T. V. A. v. POWELSON.

Opinion of the Court.

quired by the Fifth Amendment is in issue. See, for example, Omnia Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 502, 508-509.
We do not see why the protection given to "private property" under the Fifth Amendment imposes upon the
United States a duty to provide a higher measure of compensation for these lands than would be imposed by the
Fourteenth Amendment upon the state if it were the
taker." Nor has any reason based on considerations of
equity and fair dealing been advanced for justifying a
higher measure of compensation in the instant case because the lands are being taken for a public project sponsored by the United States rather than by North Carolina. The warrant or authority for putting the United
States at such a disadvantage is not apparent.
The right of the United States to exercise the power of
eminent domain is "complete in itself" and "can neither
be enlarged nor diminished by a State." Kohl v. United
States, 91 U. S. 367, 374. Though the meaning of "property" as used in § 25 of the Act and in the Fifth Amendment is a federal question, it will normally obtain its content by reference to local law. Yet when we look to local law in the present case, we find no indication that for
purposes of condemnation proceedings instituted by
North Carolina the value of the lands in question would
be increased by reason of respondent's privilege to use the
power of eminent domain. So far as constitutional compulsions are concerned, it is plain, as we have noted, that
that factor need not be included in case the state were
the condemnor. Moreover, the result in the present case
is not different if we assume with the District Court (33
F. Supp. p. 522) that respondent's "prior right" under
North Carolina law "constituted a valuable right, which
is destroyed by this condemnation proceeding." It does
10 Cf. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 233-241,
arising under the Fourteenth Amendment.

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

not follow that that "prior right" was "private property"
within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment which was
taken by the United States.
The law of eminent domain is fashioned out of the
conflict between the people's interest in public projects
and the principle of indemnity to the landowner. We
recently stated in United States v. Miller, supra, p. 375,
that "Courts have had to adopt working rules in order to
do substantial justice in eminent domain proceedings."
Equity and fair dealing do not require the payment by the
United States to the landowner of the amount of a valuation of his lands based on the existence of his privilege
to use the power of eminent domain. It is "private property" which the Fifth Amendment declares shall not be
taken for public use without just compensation. The
power of eminent domain can hardly be said to fall in that.
category. It is not a personal privilege; it is a special
authority impressed with a public character and to be
utilized for a public end." An award based on the value
of that privilege would be an appropriation of public
authority to a wholly private end. The denial of such
an award to the landowner does no injustice. It is true
that respondent's possession of the power of eminent domain was in part the basis of an opportunity to unite the
present lands with others into a power project. But he is
not being deprived of values which result from his expenditures or activities. The fruits of the exercise of that power
1 See Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 223; Boom Co. v.
Patterson, 98 U. S. 403, 406; United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513,
518-519; Spencer v. Railroad, 137 N. C. 107, 121-122, 49 S. E. 96;
Jeffress v. Greenville, 154 N. C. 490, 493-494, 70 S. E. 919; Wissler
v. Yadkin River Power Co., 158 N. C. 465, 74 S. E. 460. In the latter
case the. Supreme Court of North Carolina stated (pp. 466-467):
"This power of eminent domain is conferred upon corporations affected
with public use, not so much for the benefit of the corporations themselves, but for the use and benefit of the people at large."

U. S. Ex
266

E-L.

T. V. A. v. POWELSON.

Opinion of the Court.

of eminent domain are not being appropriated. And
there is no basis for raising an estoppel against the United
States as there was thought to be in Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312. See Omnia Co. v. United States, supra, pp. 513-514. The landowner is, to be sure, deprived of a preferential .advantage,
which was an incidental attribute of the public authority
with which the state endowed him. But that advantage
had no higher dignity than a promise of a gratuity. It
had not'been availed of to develop an existing and going
enterprise which the United States appropriated. Respondent's project was only a speculative venture-a promotional scheme wholly in futuro. Thus we conclude
that respondent had no interest under his unexercised
power of eminent domain which rises to the estate of
"private property" within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment. Cf. Rundle v. Delaware & R. Canal Co.,
14 How. 80, 94.
This public project, to be sure, has frustrated respondent's plan for the exploitation of its power of eminent domain. We may assume that that privilege was a thing
of value and that this frustration of the plan means a
loss to respondent. But our denial of compensation for
that loss does not make this an exceptional case in the law
of eminent domain. There are numerous business losses
which result from condemnation of properties but which
are not compensable under the Fifth Amendment. The
point is well illustrated by two other lines of cases in this
field. It is a well settled rule that while it is the owner's
loss, not the taker's gain, which is the measure of compensation for the property taken (United States v. Miller,
supra; United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., supra, p.
81; Boston Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S.
189, 195), not all losses suffered by the owner are compensable under the Fifth Amendment. In absence of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

statutory mandate (United States v. Miller, supra,p. 376)
the sovereign must pay only for what it takes, not for
opportunities which the owner may lose. See Orgel,
Valuation Under Eminent Domain (1936) § 71, § 73. On
the one hand are such cases as Monongahela Navigation
Co. v. United States, 2 supra, where it was held that the
United States had appropriated a going enterprise to its
own ends and must make compensation accordingly. But
it is well settled in this Court 13 that, "Frustration and appropriation are essentially different things." Omnia Co.
v. United States, supra, p. 513. Thus in Mitchell v.
United States, 267 U. S. 341, the owner was denied compensation for the destruction of his business which resulted
from the taking of his land for a public project even though
the business could not be reestablished elsewhere. This
Court, after noting that "settled rules of law" precluded
"'And see Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685;
Cincinnati v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 223 U. S. 390; Pennsylvania Hospital v. Philadelphia,245 U. S. 20; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v.
United States, 265 U. S. 106; De Laval Steam Turbine Co. v. United
States, 284 U. S. 61. In the Monongahela case the United States
condemned a lock and dam constructed at the invitation of the United
States and operated by the owner under a franchise from Pennsylvania. This Court held that the special facts of the case required that
the franchise or going concern value of the enterprise be included in
the compensation payable to the owner. It was said in the first place
that the franchise granted to the company by Pennsylvania was a
valuable property right, since it was a contract under the rule of
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, and protected against
impairment by the state. Secondly, the Court noted that the United
States did more than destroy the business; it appropriated the enterprise for public purposes. Moreover, as was stated in Omnia Co. v.
United States, supra, pp. 513-514, the Monongahela case "rested
primarily upon the doctrine of estoppel, as this Court has in several
cases since pointed out."
13 See Bothwell Y. United States, 254 U. S. 231; Joslin Co. v. Providence, 262 U. S. 668, 675; Atwater & Co. v. United States, 275 U. S.
188; United States v. Carver,278 U. S. 294; Mullen Benevolent Corp.
v. United States, 290 U. S. 89.

U. S.

EX

266

EL.

T. V. A. v. POWELSON.

Opinion of the Court.

a consideration of "consequential damages" for losses
of'a business or its destruction, stated: "No recovery
therefor Can be had now as for a taking of the business.
There is no finding as a fact that the Government took
the business, or that what it did was intended as a taking.
If the business was destroyed, the destruction was an unintended incident of the taking of land." 267 U. S. p. 345.
That which is not "private property" within the meaning
of the Fifth Amendment likewise may be a thing of value
which is destroyed or impaired by the taking of lands by
the United States. But like the business destroyed but
not "taken" in the Mitchell case it need not be reflected
in the award due the landowner unless Congress so
provides.
It is no answer to say that the evidence as to the profits
from respondent's hypothetical four-dam project was introduced not as the basis of an award for loss of profits or
business but only as a basis for estimating the true water
power value of the property. The computation of those
profits assumes the very existence of the projected enterprise which the power of eminent domain Alone could
make possible and which these condemnations frustrated.
We repeat that an allowance of any such value would entail a payment for the loss of a business prospect based
on an unexercised power of eminent domain. As we have
said, no reason based on precedent or principle appears
why respondent's privilege to use the power of eminent
domain should be treated as "private property" within
the meaning of the Fifth Amendment so as to give rise
to a private claim against the public treasury. Nor is
there any indication that Congress adopted in this regard
a more liberalized standard of compensation than would
be provided under the Fifth Amendment.
It is suggested that this result would mean that in condemnation proceedings the United States need not pay
the value of the property at the time of the taking if the
*31W59-44-22

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

state where the property is located might destroy or diminish that value through an appropriate exercise of its
police power. It is manifest that such is not the case. A
state may of course destroy or diminish values by an assertion of its police power without the necessity of making
compensation for the loss. Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., supra; Block v. Hirsch, 256 U. S. 135, 156.
While such a change will not be presumed (United States
v. River Rouge Co., 269 U. S. 411), the possibility or probability of such action, so far as it affects present values, is
a proper subject for consideration in valuing property for
purposes of a condemnation award. See Reichelderfer v.
Quinn, 287 U. S. 315, 323. We do not disturb those general principles. The United States no more than a state
can be excused frompaying just compensation measured
by the value of the property at the time of the taking
merely because it could destroy that value by appropriate
legislation or regulation. But we have here a unique situation. The power of eminent domain which respondent
seeks to have reflected in the valuation is largely unexercised and need not be reflected in the measure of compensation if the state which conferred. the privilege were the
taker of the lands. If these numerous tracts had already
been united by respondent through the power of eminent
domain into a power project, distinct problems would be
posed as Sears v. Akron, supra, indicates. Then the
United States would be acquiring a business, not simply
frustrating a promotional scheme. We merely hold that
the United States, in absence of a specific statutory requirement, need not make compensation for the loss of a
business opportunity based on the unexercised privilege
to use the power of eminent domain where the state
need not do so were it the sponsor of the public project
and the taker of the lands. The constitutional obligation of the United States to make compensation does
not extend so far.

U. S. Ex REL. T. V. A. v. POWELSON.

285

Opinion of the Court.

266

It is true that this result will reduce an award which the
Circuit Court of Appeals noted was approximately equal
to respondent's total investment in the lands acquired for
its project, plus 3% interest. But the Fifth Amendment
allows the owner only the fair market value of his property; it does not guarantee him a return of his investment.
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 454; Brooks-Scanlon
Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S. 106, 123; Olson v. United
States, supra, p. 255.

The result is that respondent's privilege to use the power
of eminent domain may not be considered in determining
whether there is a reasonable probability of the lands in
question being combined with other tracts into a power
project in the reasonably near future. If the power of
eminent domain be left out of account, the chances of making the combination appear to be too remote and slim "to
have any legitimate effect upon the valuation." McGovern v. New York, supra,p. 372. Respondent therefore has
not established the basis for proof of the water power value
which was asserted.
We hold only that profits, attributable to the enterprise
which respondent hoped to launch, are inadmissible as
evidence of the value of the lands which were taken. Respondent is, of course, entitled to the rarket value of the
property fairly determined. And that value should be
found in accordance with the established rules (United
States v. Miller, supra)-uninfluenced, so far as practicable, by the circumstance that he whose lands are condemned has the power of eminent domain. We do not
reach the question much discussed at the bar and in the
briefs whether evidence of the earnings of respondent's
hypothetical four-dam project should have been excluded
for the further reason that it was too speculative."'
4

See Sharp v. United States, 191 U. S. 341, 348-350; San Diego

Land & Town Co. v. Neale, 88 Cal. 50, 58-63, 25 P. 977; Matter of
City of New York, 118 App. Div. 272, 275, 103 N. Y. S. 441; New

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

The

dissenting:

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUS-

and I understand the Court to hold
that property physically adaptable to power purposes,
taken by the Federal Government for power purposes
among others, is to be valued as worthless for power purposes as matter of law because its projected development
might be defeated if the State should revoke the power
of eminent domain admittedly possessed by the owner at
the time of the taking. We think it denies proper effect
to state law and policy in effect at the time of taking.
Unless this decision overrules the law as stated by Mr.
Justice Brandcis for a unanimous Court, flowing streams
are natural resources owned and governed by the States,
and the rights of their grantees and of riparian owners are
settled by the local law which is conclusive on us. Port
of Seattle v. Oregon & WashingtonR. Co., 255 U. S. 56; St.
Anthony Falls Water Power Co. v. St. Paul Water
Comm'rs, 168 U. S. 349; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1;
cf. United States v. Oregon, 295 U. S. 1, 6-7. The States
have assumed this to be their right and have written into
their laws and constitutions various systems of control
and development deemed suitable to their respective climates, industries or economies.'

TICE FRANKFURTER

York Central R. Co. v. Maloney, 234 N. Y. 208, 218, 137 N. E. 305;
Sparkill Realty Corp. v. New York, 268 N. Y. 192, 197 N. E. 192;
Burt v. Wigglesworth, 117 Mass. 302, 306; Hamilton v. Pittsburg,B.
& L. E. R. Co., 190 Pa. St. 51, 57, 42 A. 369. Cf. United Gas Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 278 U. S. 300, 317-318.
'Typical provisions from state constitutions are:
California, Article XIV, § 3: ".

.

. Riparian rights in a stream or

water course attach to, but to no more than so much of the flow

U.
266

S. EX REL.

T. V. A. v. POWELSON.

JACKSON,

287

J., dissenting.

The Hiwassee River, therefore, is a resource of the State
of North Carolina. To obtain the advantage of its latent
energy that State by special act of its Legislature created
thereof as may be required or used consistently with this section, for the
purposes for which such lands are, or may be made adaptable, in view
of such reasonable and beneficial uses; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed as depriving any riparian owner
of the reasonable use of water of the stream to which his land is
riparian under reasonable methods of diversion and use, or of depriving
any appropriator of water to which he is lawfully entitled. .. ."
Colorado, Article XVI, § 6: "The right to divert the unappropriated waters of any natural stream to beneficial uses shall never be denied. Priority of appropriation shall give the better right as between those using the water for the same purpose; but when the
waters of any natural stream are not sufficient for the service of all
those desiring the use of the same, those using the water for domestic
purposes shall have the preference over those claiming for any other
purpose, and those using the water for agricultural purposes shall have
preference over those using the same for manufacturing purposes."
North Dakota, Article XVII, § 210: "All flowing streams and natural water courses shall forever remain the property of the state for
mining, irrigating and manufacturing purposes."
Rhode Island, Article I, § 17: "The people shall continue to enjoy
and freely exercise all the rights of fishery, and the privileges of the
shore, to which they have been heretofore entitled ur ter the charter
and usages of this state. But no new right is intendcl to be granted,
nor any existing right impaired, by this declaration."
Utah, Article XVII,'§ 1: "All existing rights to the use of any of
the waters in this State for any useful or beneficial purpose, are hereby
recognized and confirmed."
Washington, Article XVII, § 1: "The State of Washington asserts
its ownership to the beds and shores of all navigable waters in the
state up to and including the line of ordinary high tide in waters
where the tide ebbs and flows, and up to and including the line of
ordinary high water within the banks of all navigable -rivers and
lakes: Provided, that this section shall not be construed so as to debar any person from asserting his claim to vested rights in the courts
of the state."
Article XXI, § 1: "The use of the waters of this state for irrigation,
mining, and manufacturing purposes shall be deemed a public use."
Wisconsin, Article XXI, § 1: "The state shall have ..ncu rent jujj-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

a corporation and gave it extensive powers including the
right of eminent domain.' The corporation acquired,
partly by purchase and partly by condemnation, the dam
sites, bed of the stream, riparian lands and key properties
necessary to the development. The right to acquire by
condemnation any additional lands needed was never
repealed or withdrawn but on the other hand was confirmed by the state courts in a series of litigations.' There
is no finding or evidence that forfeiture, repeal or impairment of these rights has been considered or threatened by
the State or is even remotely probable, even if legally
possible.
Under its paramount powers over navigation the Federal Government has elected to take this resource out of
the control of the State and away from the grantee corporation which is subject to State taxing and regulatory
power. This it may do, but only upon making just compensation. But the Court holds that compensation must
be computed as if the State had refused to grant what it
has granted or had withdrawn what it has given no indication of withdrawing. By thus cancelling for the purpose
diction on all rivers and lakes bordering on this state so far as such
rivers or lakes shall form a common boundary to the state and any
other state or territory now or hereafter to be formed, and bounded
by the same; and the river Mississippi and the navigable waters leading
into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same, shall be common highways and forever free, as well
to the inhabitants of the state as to the citizens of the United
States, without any tax, impost or duty therefor."
See also Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay Canal Co., 142
U. S. 254, 272; cf. InternationalPaper Co. v. United States, 282 t. S.
399.
2Private Laws of North Carolina, 1909, c. 76, p 185.
3 Carolina-TennesseePower Co. v. Hiawassee River Power Co., 171
N. C. 248, 88 S. E. 349 (1916), 175 N. C.668, 96 S.E. 99 (1918),
186 N. C.179, 119 S. E. 213 (1923), 188 N. C. 128,123 S. E. 312 (1924);
Hiawassee River Power Co. v. Carolina-TennesseePower Co., 252 . S.
341 (1920), 267 U.S.586 (1925).

U. S. EX rEL. T. V. A. v. POWELSON.
266

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

the power of eminent domain, it holds as a matter of law
that the project was not feasible to execute and that the
lands assembled for power purposes, admittedly physically
adaptable to the use and taken by the Government for
that purpose, have no power utilization value. This seems
to us not easily reconciled with the respect due to local law
in a matter of the kind.
Determination of the value of property, particularly
as affected by a prospective use, always involves some
element of prophecy and some estimation of probabilities.
No court that we know of has ever proposed, and we do
not propose, to value the power of eminent domain either
separately or as an ingredient of property taken. Its
existence should be considered only for the purpose of
determining the most advantageous probable usefulness
of the property as it affects its value. The legal principles
governing the solution of the fact questions are laid down
in Olson v. United States, 292 U. S. 246. Of course any
uncertainty or limitation as to the right to condemn property or evidence of probable impairment, forfeiture, or
withdrawal of it would be weighed with other evidence in
arriving at a judgment as to the feasibility of the project
and value of the property. This Court has said that a
possibility of exercise by a governing body of its power to
make changes affecting values is a proper subject for consideration in fixing values. Reichelderfer v. Quinn, 287
U. S. 315, 323. But never until now has it held that the
law requires present values to be determined as if legally
possible, but factually improbable, changes have already
taken place.
Few properties are so immune from the effects of governmental authority that some action may not be envisioned which would devalue them. One of the items
taken by the Federal Government in this case from respondent and out of control of the State was a going
concern, an electric generating plant and distributing system. Since both parties accepted the award made for

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

this plant it is no longer an issue, but is illustrative of the
legal problem raised by the Court's opinion. Doubtless
the State Government had power to make many innovations detrimental to its success and to impose burdens
that would detract from its value and perhaps had reserved powers to annul its corporate or special franchises.
But we would not suppose that such hypothetical destruction of property values could be invoked to minimize compensation payable on a taking any more than hypothetical
accretions to its rights through state action, possible but
never accomplished, could increase such compensation.
In many cases the beneficial use and hence the value of
abutting property may be decreased if public authority
closes or obstructs a public street or canal, or changes
the grade of a street, or the location of a county seat.'
'See examples and citation of cases in leichelderfer v. Quinn, supra,
at 319.
The validity of the principle adopted by the majority opinion may
be tested against hypothetical cases such as the following:
1. 0 owns a dock projecting into a navigable stream in State S. The
Federal Government may destroy it or require its removal without
payment of compensation (United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. &
P. R. Co., 312 U. S. 592), but it does not appear likely that it will do
so, and the dock is a commercially valuable property. S acquires the
dock by condemnation, and seeks to avoid payment by relying upon the
power of the Federal Government to destroy its value.
2. 0 owns a distillery in State S. S acquires it by condemnation,
and resists payment by asserting the existence of the Federal Government's power to enact a prohibition law and thereby destroy or diminish the value of the distillery without the payment of compensation
(Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146).
,3. 0 owns an option upon land owned by State S. The option is
revocable at the will of 5, but revocation seems unlikely, and the option
has commercial value. The Federal Government acquires it by condemnation, but resists payment by relying upon S's power of
revocation.
These cases can be further complicated by supposing that the condemnation is not by the sovereign itself, but by a private corporation
vested by it with the power of eminent domain.

U. S. EX REL. T. V. A. v. POWELSON.
266

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

But in all such cases the compensation payable should be
the value of the property at the time of taking, allowing
for any influence that these contingencies might exert,
which would depend upon their probability.
No previous decision of this Court supports or authorizes
disregard of a presently existing state right of eminent domain in a federal taking of property. In McGovern v.
New York, 229 U. S. 363, and New York v. Sage, 239 U. S.
57, the condemnation was by an agency of the State and
the condemnees did not have and showed no probability
of obtaining such power from the State.
Even less relevant to the question now before us is Sears
v. Akron, 246 U. S. 242. It was not a condemnation case
at all but a suit in equity to enjoin the City from construction of a dam and reservoir and diversion of river water.
The City did not propose to take any property of the company through which plaintiff as a mortgage creditor derived any rights he asserted. In fact the company did not
own any property included in the project, although shortly
before commencement of the suit, but after the City's development was practically completed, it acquired two
small parcels some distance below the City's dam. But
the company's charter gave it a right of eminent domain
and, although it had taken no step to do so, it claimed the
right to expropriate the same property the City was taking.
It sought to enjoin the City upon the ground that its unexercised right to take this property was an indefeasible
property right which was being defeated and rendered
valueless because the City was ahead of it in preempting
properties which the company might want to acquire under
its power. The State of Ohio had retained power to "revoke any such right to appropriate property until it had
been acted upon by acquiring the property authorized to
be taken." Id. at 250. The State of course had revoked
the power to the extent that it had authorized the City,
its own instrumentality, to take the property. But Jus-

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
JACKSON', J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

tice Brandeis pointed out that "Nor are we called upon to
determine to what extent the commencement of the acquisition of needed property in preparation for the power
development, or even actual commencement of construction, would have vested in the company the right to complete the development." Ibid. The decision is now relied
upon to establish the point it expressly reserved. Moreover, the Ohio company had tried to use its power of condemnation, and Ohio courts had held its charter did not
authorize it to take lands essential to its project. Cuyahoga River Power Co. v. Northern Realty Co., 244 U. S.
300. In the case now before us the North Carolina courts
had held the power given by that State to this company
was complete and prior to every other at the very location
involved here.'
These cases do not decide what would have been respondent's rights if North Carolina, rather than the United
States, had instituted the present condemnation proceedings, thereby expressing her unwillingness to have the
respondent carry the project through to completion. They
are wholly inapposite to the question we are called upon
to decide, which is whether North Carolina's expressed
and undoubted willingness that the respondent should do
so, and to that end should exercise her sovereign power
of eminent domain, may be considered along with all
other facts bearing upon the question of the prospects of
completion.
The Government and the Court have taken a contrary
position to the one now announced when the shoe was
on the other foot. In United States v. River.Rouge Co.,
269 U. S. 411, the Government sought to deduct from the
yalue of property condemned the benefits conferred by
the improvement upon the severed property. The owner
denied that these benefits should be considered because
his enjoyment of them would be terminable by the GovSSee footnote 3, supra.

GREAT LAKES CO. v. HUFFMAN.
26

Syllabus.

ernment at any time. The Court sustained credit for the
benefits, pointing out that "there was nothing in the evidence indicating any probability that the Government
would at any time abrogate or curtail this right in any
respect." Id. at 420.
We think the same rule should apply against as for the
Government, and that the property in question was entitled to the benefits at the time being extended by State
authority in the absence of evidence of probability that
they would be abrogated or curtailed. We do not think
that because the power of eminent domain may have
been revocable by the State it follows as matter of law
that it must be treated as nonexistent, and we dissent
from a reversal based on such grounds.

GREAT LAKES DREDGE & DOCK CO.

ET AL. V.

HUFFMAN, ADMINISTRATOR, DIVISION OF
EMPLOYMENT SECURITY, LOUISIANA DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 849. Argued May 5, 6, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.
1. In the light of its opinion, findings, and conclusions of law, the
District Court's dismissal of the suit rests wholly upon its declaration that as applied to the plaintiffs the state statute is constitutional; and its judgment is, in effect, a declaratory judgment. P.295.
2. Where federal courts in the exercise of their jurisdiction to render
declaratory judgments are called on to adjudicate what are essentially equitable causes of action, they are free upon equitable grounds
to grant or withhold the relief prayed; and considerations which
have led federal courts of equity to refuse to enjoin the collection
of state taxes, save in exceptional cases, require a like restraint in
the use of the declaratory judgment procedure. P. 300.
3. It is in the public interest that federal courts of equity should exercise their discretionary power to grant or withhold relief so as to
avoid needless obstruction of the domestic policy of the States, and

