412

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

319 U. S.

MATTON STEAMBOAT CO., INC. ET AL. V.MURPHY,
. ACTING INDUSTRIAL COMMISSIONER, ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK, APPELLATE
DIVISION, THIRD DEPARTMENT.

No. 783. Argued May 5, 1943.-Decided June 1, 1943.
Section 350 of 28 U. S. C. provides that "no appeal . . .intended to

bring any judgment or decree before the Supreme Court for review
shall be allowed or entertained unless application therefor be duly
made within three months after the entry of such judgment or decree." Rule 36 of the Rules of this Court provides that an appeal
to this Court from a state court of last resort may be allowed "by
the chief justice or presiding judge of the state court, or by a justice
of this court." Held:
1. An appeal for which a timely application was made to the
Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals of New York could have been
allowed by him either before or after the expiration of the three
months period. P. 414.
2. Within the three months period, application for appeal may be
made to the state judge and a justice of this Court at the same time,
when necessary to preserve the right of appeal. P. 414.
3. Where an application for appeal has been made to the state
judge within the three months period and has been denied, a subsequent application to a justice of this Court, filed after the three
months period has expired, is too late. P. 414.
Appeals dismissed.

APPEALS from a judgment, 289 N. Y. 119, 44 N. E. 2d
391 (entered in the Supreme Court, Appellate Division,
on remittitur) sustaining the validity of the New York
Unemployment Insurance Law. See also 263 App. Div.
756, 774; 30 N. Y. S. 2d 930, 32 N. Y. S. 2d 373.
Mr. Frank C. Mason, with whom Messrs. H. Maurice
Fridlund and Edward L. P. O'Connor were on the brief,
for appellants in No. 783. Mr. Francis S. Bensel, with
*Together with No. 813, Lake Tankers Corp. v. Murphy, Acting
Industrial Commissioner,et al., also on appeal from the Supreme Court
of New York, Appellate Division, Third Department.

MATTON" CO. v. MURPHY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

whom Messrs. Hersey Egginton and Nicholas Kelley were
on the brief, for appellant in No. 813.
Mr. OrrinG. Judd, Solicitor General of New York, with
whom Messrs. Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney General,
William Gerard Ryan and Francis R. Curran, Assistant
Attorneys General, were on the brief, for appellees.
PER CURLAM.

In these cases appellants have sought to appeal under

§ 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a), from
judgments of the New York courts sustaining the validity
of the New York Unemployment Insurance Law (N. Y.
Labor Law, § 500 et seq.). The applicable section, 28
U. S. C. § 350, provides that "no appeal . . . intended to
bring any judgment or decree before the Supreme Court
for review shall be allowed or entertained unless application therefor be duly made within three months after the
entry of such judgment or decree."
The question for our decision is whether the appeals to
this Court in these cases were timely. In each,. within
three months after the judgment of the Court of Appeals
(see Department of Banking v. Pink, 317 U. S. 264), the
appellant made timely application for allowance of the
appeal to the Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals who, being in doubt as to the finality of the judgments, denied the applications shortly before the expiration of the three months period. On application to an
Associate Justice of this Court, made shortly after the
three months had expired, the appeals were allowed by
him with the Court's approval, in order that we might
resolve an unsettled question of our practice (see Robert-.
son and Kirkham, Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of;
the United States, pp. 717-18). When we set the cases
for argument together with two companion cases, Standard Dredging Corp. v. Murphy, ante, p. 306, and Interna-

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S.

tional Elevating Co. v. Murphy, ante, p. 306, we requested
counsel to discuss the question whether the appeals were
"applied for within the time provided by law."
By Rule 36 of our Rules, an appeal to this Court from
a state court of last resort may be allowed "by the chief
justice or presiding judge of the state court, or by a justice
of this court." But such an appeal may not be allowed
when no application is made to the judge or justice authorized to allow it within the period prescribed by the statute.
Here appellants' applications to the Chief Judge of the
Court of Appeals were timely, and could have been allowed by him either before or after the expiration of the
three months period. Cardonav. Quifiones, 240 U. S. 83;
Latham v. UnitedStates, 131 U. S. Appendix, xcvii; United
States v. Vigil, 10 Wall. 423, 427. The appeals could also
have been allowed, on such timely applications, by a justice
of this Court. And there is nothing in the statute or
Rules to preclude application within the three months to
both the state judge and a justice of this Court at the same
time, where shortness of time makes that necessary to preserve the right of appeal. Cf. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S.
131, 142.
But when the Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals denied appellants' applications and disallowed the appeals,
the applications were no longer pending before him and,
at least in the absence of any reconsideration by him, appeals could be allowed only on a new application either
to him or to a justice of this Court. The time within.
which such applications could be made is that prescribed
by the statute. Its language is peremptory-"no appeal
. . . shall be allowed or entertaified unless application
therefor be duly made within three months." The purport of the words is that the appeal allowed must be one
that is applied for within the three months period. An
application which has been made within that period and
denied does not satisfy that requirement, nor does a later

KELLEY v. EVERGLADES DISTRICT.
412

415

Syllabus.

application filed after the time limit has expired even
though it be allowed.
The purpose of statutes limiting the period for appeal
is to set a definite point of time when litigation shall be
at an end, unless within that time the prescribed application has been made; and if it has not, to advise prospective appellees that they are freed of the appellant's
demands. Any other construction of the statute would
defeat its purpose. Would-be appellants could prolong
indefinitely the appeal period, by making application to
one judge within the three months and upon its denial
by applying successively to other judges even after the
prescribed time for appeal had ended. Moreover, in such
cases extension of the period for appeal could be limited
only by recourse to the doctrine of laches applied in the
particular circumstances of each case.
We conclude that appellants' applications for allowance of the appeals, after the expiration of the three
months period, were too late, and that this Court is
without jurisdiction to entertain the appeals, Which are
accordingly
Dismissed.
KELLEY ET AL. v. EVERGLADES DRAINAGE
DISTRICT.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 935. Decided June 1, 1943.
1. The record in this case lacks the findings of fact which § 83 (e)
of the Bankruptcy Act and No. 37 of the General Orders in Bankruptcy require and which are necessary to enable this Court to
determine whether the plan under Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy
Act for composition of the debts of a Florida drainage district
discriminates unfairly in favor of a particular class of creditors.

P. 417.

