OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

assume "no obligation or risk" in the case of damage to
supplies, we think it clear that they meant to cover the
entire transportation risk, -with respect to this property
and that losses such as occurred in this case, whether or
not attributable to the negligence of the Railway Company
were within the stipulated immunity.
It is therefore unnecessary to discuss the assignments
of error which are based upon the ruling of the court with
respect to the submission to the jury of the question of
negligence. Our conclusion is that, upon the facts disclosed at the trial, the Railway Company was entitled
to a direction of a verdict in its favor, and the judgment
sustaining the recovery by the Construction Company
must therefore be reversed.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the Su.
preme Court of the State of Arizona as the succesor
of the TerritorialSupreme Court,for such further proceedings as may not be iiconsistent with this opinion.

GEORGE A. FULLER COMPANY v. McCLOSKEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF. APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 176.

Submitted March 7, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

The averments in the declaration when taken together, held sufficient
to allow proof of negligence on the pait of one defendant, although
one specific charge related exclusively to the other defendant as to

whom the case was dismissed.
A modification of the requested charge so as to make it conform to the
facts of the case, held in this case not to have been error, the jury

A

having been properly instructed by the court on the subject of contributory negligence.
variance betweeu proof and declaration should be called to the

GEO. A. FULLER CO. v. McCLOSKEY.
228 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

attention of the trial court when the declaration can be met by an
immediate amendment.
A contractor erecting a building arranged with another and independent
contractor who was putting in the elevator to use and control the
elevator and an operator therefor before it was turned over to the
owner; he also arranged to allow his own subcontractor painting the
elevator shaft to use the elevator and to signal when and where the
elevator was to stop to let the employ~s off and take them on.
Held that the contractor was the sole master and was responsible
for damages sustained by an employ6 of the subcontractor resulting
from negligence of the operator in failing to respond to signals
properly given by such employ6.
35 App. D. C. 595, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the liability of a contractor
for, personal injuries caused by negligence in operating
an elevator, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward S. Duvall, Jr., for plaintiff in error:
It was error in the trial court to decide, as matter of
law, under the evidence, that the elevator boy was the servant of the Fuller Company. Standard Oil Co. v. Anderson, 212 U. S. 215; Byrne v. Kansas City R. R. Co.,
61 Fed. Rep. 609; Powell v. ConstructionCo., 88 Tennessee,
692; The Elton, 142 Fed. Rep. 367; Rourke v. White Moss
Colliery Co., L. R. 2; C. P. D. 205; Murrie v. Currie,
L. R. 6; C. P. 24; Donovan v. Construction Syndicate,
1 Q. B. (1893) 629; Wylie v. Palmer, 137 N. Y. 248; Mc,
Inerney v. Delaware & Hudson C. Co., 151 N. Y. 411;
Delbry v. Blodgett, 185 Massachusetts, 126; D., L. & W. R.
Co. v. Hardy, 59 N. J. L. 35; Parkhurst v. Swift, 31 Ind.
App. 521; Anderson v. Boyer, 156 N. Y. 93; Connor v.
Koch, 63 App. Div. (Sup. Ct. N. Y.) 257. See also Ches.
& 0. Ry. Co. v. Howard, 178 U. S. 153; Guy v. Donald,
203 U. S. 399.
There is no sufficient allegation of negligence against
the Fuller Company in the declaration, nor is there any evidence sufficient to support a verdict against that company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228 U. S.

It is an important test of liability whether the company
reserve the power not only to direct what shall be done,
but how it shall be done. Railroad Co. v. Hanning, 15
Wall. 649; Singer Mfg. Co. v. Rahn, 132 U. S. 518; Casement v. Brown, 148 U. S. 622; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Baugh,
149 U. S. 368. See also Morgan v. Smith, 159 Massachusetts, 570; Geer v. Darrow, 61 Connecticut, 220; Charlock
v. Freel, 125 N. Y. 357; Bailey v. Troy & B. R. Co., 57
Vermont, 252; Johnston v. Ott, 155 Pa. St. 17.
If an independent contractor is employed to do a lawful
act, and in the course of the work his servants commit
some casual act of wrong or negligence, the employer is
not answerable. 2 Kent Com., p. 260; Reedie v. London
& N. W. R. Co., 4 Exch. 244, 256; Overton v. Freeman,
11 C. B. 867; Gayford v. Nichols, 9 Exch. 702, 707; Peachy
v. Rowland, 13 C. B. 182; Forsyth v. Hooper, 11 Allen,
419; Hilliard v. Richardson, 3 Gray, '349; Blake v. Ferris,
1 Seld. 48; Pack v. New York, 8 N. Y. 222; De Forrestv.
Wright, 5 Michigan, 368; Painter v. Pittsburgh,46 Pa. St.
213; Eaton v. European & N. A. R. Co., 59 Maine, 520;
McCarthy v. Second Parrish,71 Maine, 318; Cunningham
v. InternationalR. R. Co., 51 Texas, 503; King v. N. Y.
Cent. R. Co., 66 N. Y. 181. See also Schnurr v. Board of
Com'rs of Huntington Co., 22 Ind. App. 188; Sullivan v.
New Bedford Gas & Edison Light Co:, 190 Massachusetts,
288; Hooe v. Boston & N. St. Ry. Co., 187 Massachusetts,
67; Laugher v. Pointer, 5 B. & C. 560; Clark v. Hannibal
&c. R. Co., 36 Missouri, 202; Houser v. Metropolitan Railroad Co. 27 Misc. (N. Y.) 538; Blake v. Ferris,5 N. Y. 48;
S. C.,55 Am. Dec. 304.
The relation between parties which renders one liable
to third persons for the acts of negligence of the other
must be that of superior and subordinate, and is based
on the control which the superior has the right to exercise
over the acts of the subordinate in the performance of his
duties, and an employer is not so liable for the acts of an

GEO. A. FULLER CO. v. McCLOSKEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

independent contractor, who is never subject to such control, nor is he liable for the acts of the employ6s and servants of such independent contractor. Casement v. Brown,
supra; Robbins v. Chicago, 2 Black, 418, and 4 Wall.
657; Hill v. Schneider (N. Y., 1897), 13 App. Div. 299;
*Uppington v. City of New York, 165 N. Y. 222; Boomer
v. Wilbur, 176 Massachusetts, 482; Francis v. Johnson,
127 Iowa, 391.
The burden of proof was on the plaintiff to show that
the defendant entered into the contract with the Mackay
Company to operate the elevator so that the Mackay
Company's employ~s might stand on top of the elevator,
etc. Pa. R. R. Co. v. Jones, 155 U. S. 333; Tyler v. Pa.
R. R. Co., 18 App. D. C. 31.
It was McCloskey's duty while on the elevator to exercise proper care for his own safety, and the court erred in
refusing to grant the defendant's third prayer in that behalf. Railroad Company v. Jones, 95 U. S. 443.
Assuming that there was any evidence tending to show
that Locke was the servant of the Fuller Company, the
question should have been submitted to the jury to decide
under all the evidence under proper instruction. Driscoll
v. Towle, 181 Massachusetts, 416; D., L. & W. R. Co. v.
Hardy, 59 N. J. L. 35; Daley v. Boston & Albany R. Co.,
147 Massachusetts, 101; Connor v. Koch, 63 App. ,Div.
(Sup. Ct. N. Y.) 257.
Mr. S. V. Hayden and Mr. Hayden Johnson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This action was brought by Wilson A. McCloskey, the
defendant in error, to recover damages for personal injuries caused by alleged negligence in the operation of an

GOMOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

elevator in the Hibbs Building in this District. At the
time of the accident McCloskey, who will be called the
plaintiff, was engaged in painting the elevator shaft and
for this purpose was riding on top of the elevator. The
action was brought against the Otis Elevator Company,
and the plaintiff in error, George A. Fuller Company.
Without objection, a verdict was directed in favor of the
Otis Elevator Company, but the case against the George A.
Fuller Company was submitted to the jury who found
a verdict in favor of the plaintiff. The judgment on this
verdict was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the District and the case comes here on writ of error. 35 App.
D. C. 595.
The facts appearing upon the trial are succinctly stated
in the opinion of the court below, in which the George
A. Fuller Company is described as the defendant, as
follows:
"The defendant company contracted with William B.
Hibbs to erect for him an office building on 15th Street
is this city. The work was to be completed by a time
certain. This contract did not include the installation of
an elevator. That work was provided for in a contract
between Hibbs and the Otis Elevator Company. The
elevator company installed its elevator long before the
completion of the building. This elevator, down to the
time of the injury to the plaintiff, had not been turned
over to the owner of the building, but was operated by an
employ6 of the Otis Company, who was paid and generally controlled by that company. After its installation
the defendant company entered into an arrangement with
the elevator company by which it became entitled to use
this elevator in the prosecution of its work, paying to
the elevator company three dollars .per day, which was
to cover the wages of the caretaker or operator aforesaid,
the Otis Company reserving the primary right to use
the elevator. Under this arrangement the defendant

GEO. A. FULLER CO. v. McCLOSKEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

company was to have no control over the elevator operator
other than to notify him when to start and when to stop
his machine.
"The defendant company entered into a subcontract
with the Robert E. Mackay Company of New York for
the painting required by its contract with Mr. Hibbs.
The plaintiff was an employ6 of the Mackay Company.
The elevator shaft was included in this subcontract.
To paint this it was of course necessary that some means
be provided whereby workmen could ascend and descend
the shaft. Therefore the Mackay Company entered into
an agreement with the defendant company by which the
defendant company agreed to furnish the Mackay Company, for use in painting said shaft, elevator, power and
operator at any time that the elevator company or the
defendant company did not want them. Nothing whatever was said about the arrangement between the elevator
company and the defendant company, the agreement
between the Mackay and the defendant company proceeding upon the theory that the equipment and elevator were
under the control of the defendant company. The Mackay Company was not to have, and in fact did not have,
any control over the operator other than to direct him
when to start and when to stop his elevator while thus
temporarily used as a movable staging.
"Upon the day of the accident plaintiff and another
workman were on the roof of the elevator touching up
the walls of the shaft. They had worked down until
the floor of the car was on a level with the first floor
of the building. To finish the walls of the shaft between
the first and second floors of the building, the space then
occupied by the body of the car, it became necessary to
get under the car. To do this it was necessary for the
painters to be taken to the next or second floor landing.
The plaintiff was standing on the rim or ledge around
the top of the car and facing the centre of the car. He had

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

a paint box and brush in his hands. The other painter
was on another side of the top with his back to the plaintiff.
This rim or ledge was about six and one-half inches wide.
Plaintiff called to the elevator operator to take him and
the other painter up to the second floor and let them
off there. There was evidence before the jury that when
the car had reached a point where plaintiff had directed
that it be stopped, the car paused and suddenly started
again, throwing plaintiff off his balance, which he was
unable to regain until the car has reached the fifth floor,
where he was caught in the weights which passed the
car at that point."
The contention based upon the asserted insufficiency of
the declaration is without merit. So far as appears the
evidence was received without any objection upon this
ground, and the assignment of error rests solely upon the
refusal of the trial court to grant a general prayer that the
court should instruct the jury that "under the pleadings
and all the evidence" their verdict should be for the Fuller
Company. It is urged that there is no sufficient averment
of the negligence of this company and attention is directed
to the allegation of the declaration that the plaintiff
"requested the said defendant, Otis Elevator Company,
its servants and employ6s to stop said elevator at the
second floor, so that he might get off and alight therefrom."
It is manifest, however, from the other allegations of the
declaration that the plaintiff intended to charge, and did
charge, negligence on the part of both defendants. The
attention of the trial court was not called to any particular
in which the declaration was deemed to be insufficient as
against the Fuller Company and no mention was made of
the specific point now raised. If this point had been suggested it is apparent that, in view of the allegations contained in the declaration, such variance as there was
between pleading and proof could properly have been
met by an immediate amendment and the case could

GEO. A. FULLER CO. v. McCLOSKEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

then have been submitted to the jury precisely as it was
submitted.
It is also assigned as error that the trial court improperly
modified one of the requests of the Fuller Company for
instruction upon the subject of contributory negligence.
The requested instruction with the modification made by
the trial court, which appears in the words italicized, was
as follows: "If the Jury find from all the evidence that
the accident to the plaintiff was occasioned wholly or in
part by reason of the fact that he had placed himself in an
expospd and dangerous position on the ledge around the
top of the elevator car, with reference to obeying the signals
to stop at the second floor, if you find such signals were given
when he might readily have placed himself in a safe and
secure position, the verdict should be for the defendant
the George A. Fuller Company, regardless of any supposed
negligence'on the part of the elevator operator and regardless of.,whether the operator was a servant of the Fuller
Company--or not." The court undoubtedly added these
words because the evidence showed that the plaintiff had
asked the operator to stop at the second floor and there
was no danger from the weights until the elevator reached
the fifth floor. The fact that the plaintiff intended to go
only to the second floor and had signaled accordingly was
properly to be taken into consideration in passing upon
the question whether in the circumstances he acted with
reasonable prudence. The court in other portions of the
charge correctly instructed the jury- on the subject of
contributory negligence and there is not the- slightest
ground for the conclusion that there was any doubt as to
the meaning of the court in the words used in modifying
the defendant's request, or that any prejudicial error was
committed.
The principal argument for reversal is based on the
ruling of the trial court that Locke, the operator of the
elevator, was the servant of the Fuller Company. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

court below approved this ruling and we find no error in
its conclusion. So far as Locke's employment was concerned, there was no dispute as to any matter of fact and
the question of the liability of the Fuller Company for his
negligence, if he was negligent in the operation of the
elevator, was one of law. It cannot be said that, under
the arrangement between the Fuller Company and the
Mackay Company, Locke was transferred to the employment of the latter. The Fuller Company had contracted for the construction of the*building. It had made
a subcontract with the Mackay Company which covered
the painting of the elevator shaft. It was convenient in
doing this that the top of the elevator should be used as a
movable platform. But the Fuller Company needed
the elevator from time to time for other purposes; and it
was important to it that the elevator shaft should be
kept free of obstructions and that the elevator should
continue to be at its command. Accordingly, the Fuller
Company agreed to furnish to the Mackay Company the
use of the elevator and the service of the operator, for a
specified sum per hour, when the elevator was not otherwise required. The Fuller Company was thus aiding in
the prosecution of the work which it had contracted with
the owner of the building to perform, and in providing the
use of a facility to a subcontractor it secured the doing of
the work at the smallest inconvenience to itself. It must
be concluded that the operating of the elevator under
this arrangement with the Mackay Company was an
operating of it by the Fuller Company. It is true that
the employ6s of the Mackay Company were to give the
signals for starting and stopping the elevator, but this
did not make the operator who received them, the servant
of the Mackay Company. These signals simply notified
him as to what was required from time to time in the course
of the service which the Fuller Company had agreed to
provide.

GEO. A. FULLER CO. v. McCLOSKEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court below followed the decision of this court in
the case of Standard Oil Co. v. Anderson, 212 U. S. 215.
There the plaintiff was employed as a longshoreman by a
master stevedore, who was acting under a contract with
the defendant, the Standard Oil Company, in loading
a ship with oil. The plaintiff was working in the hold
where, without fault on his part, he was struck by a load
of cases containing oil which was unexpectedly lowered.
The ship was alongside a dock belonging to the defendant,
and the cases of oil were conveyed from the dock to the
hatch by means of tackle, guy ropes and hoisting ropes
furnished and rigged by the stevedore. The motive power
was supplied by a winch and drum owned by the defendant and placed on its dock. The work of loading was done
by employ6s of the stevedore except that the winch was
operated by a winchman in the general employ and pay
of the defendant. The stevedore paid the defendant an
agreed sum for the hoisting. The winch was placed where
it was impossible to determine the proper time for hoisting
and lowering the cases of oil, and the winchman necessarily
depended upon signals from an employ6 of the stevedore
stationed on the deck of the ship. The negligence consisted in lowering a draft of cases before the signal was
received. The court held that the winchman remained
the servant of the defendant and affirmed a judgment
recovered against the defendant for his negligence. With
respect to the argument based on the fact that the winch
was to be operated for the stevedore, according to the
orders of his employ6s, Mr. Justice Moody, in delivering
the opinion of the court, said: "Much stress is laid upon
the fact that the winchman obeyed the signals of the gangman, who renresented the master stevedore, in timing
the raising and lowering of the cases of oil. But when one
large general work is undertaken by different persons,
doing distinct parts of the same undertaking, there must
be coperation and co6rdination, or there will be chaos.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

228 U. S.

The giving of the signals under the circumstances of this
case was not the giving of orders, but of information, and
the obedience to those signals showed co~peration rather
than subordination, and is not enough to show that there
has been a change of masters" (id., p. 226).
In the present case, the Fuller Company obtained the
use of the elevator, and the operator, from the Otis Company, and paid therefor. But the Otis Company had
nothing to do with the arrangement with the Mackay
Company. To this transaction, and to the employing of
the top of the elevator as a movable platform for the
painters, the Otis Company was a stranger. The Fuller
Company, having obtained the use of the elevator, agreed
to supply it to the Mackay Company and undertook to
furnish that company the necessary service in operating
it; it asserted control for this purpose, and assumed the
duty of operating with proper care.
Judgment atfirmed.

HEBERT v. CRAWFORD, TRUSTEE, AND
LEBLANC.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 83.

Submitted December 9, 1912.-Decided April 7, 1913.

Whatever may be the legal rights of one claiming legal or equitable
title to an asset, the fact that the bankrupt and his trustee had
physical possession thereof gives the bankruptcy court control of
the res and authority to administer it.
A petition to determine title to property in the possession of the bankrupt and his trustee may, as in this case, operate as an attachment,
and thus bring the property into the custody and under the exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court.

