CHICAGO, IND. & L. RY. CO. v. HACKETT.
228 U. S.

559

Syllabus.

CHICAGO, INDIANAPOLIS & LOUISVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY v. HACKETT.
ERROR TO THE APPELLATE COURT, FIRST DISTRICT, STATE
OF ILLINOIS.
No. 889. Submitted February 24, 1913.-Decided May 5, 1913.
This court has heretofore sustained the constitutionality of the statute
of Indiana of 1893 abolishing as to railroad corporations the defense
to actions for personal injuries sustained by employ~s of negligence
of a fellow-servant. Tullis v. Lake Erie Railroad, 175 U. S. 348;.
Louis..& Nash. R. R. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 38.

If a state statute has been construed by the highest state court it is
the duty of this court to determine its constitutionality under the
Federal Constitution as so construed.
The Supreme Court of Indiana having held that the statute of 1893 of
that State abolishing the fellow-servant defense only applied to
railroad employds whose occupation exposed them to hazards incident to operation of trains, this court holds, following its previous
decisions, that the statute is not unconstitutional as denying equal
protection of the laws.
Quwre whether a state statute applicable to all employ6s of a railroad
company whether exposed to hazard of operations of trains or not
contravenes the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The court below was justified in holding on the facts in this case that
a yard foreman was in charge or control of the train on which the
employ6 sustained his injuries.
One who did not in the court below plead or prove the settled judicial
construction of a statute of another State cannot claim that full
faith and credit was denied to the judicial construction of such statute by the courts of the enacting State.
The putting in evidence of opinions of the highest court of a State
construing a statute of that State, does not amount to proving a
settled construction of that statute.
In order that this court may review the judgment of a state court on
the ground that it denied full faith and credit to the judicial construction of a statute of a State by the courts of that State, the right
or claim under the lull faith and credit clause of the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

must have been set up in the court below. It is too late to set it up
in the petition for writ of error from this court.
An unconstitutional statute is not a law, and is as inoperative as
though it never had been passed; it can neither confer a right or
immunity nor operate to succeed any existing valid law; and so held
as to Employers' Liability Act of 1906.
Quwre the extent to which the Employers' Liability Statute superseded
state statutes upon the same subject.
The purpose of Congress cannot be indicated by a statute which is unconstitutional.

THE facts which involve the constitutionality of the

statute of Indiana abolishing as to railroad companies the
fellow-servant defense, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Morse Ives for defeidant in error in support of
motion to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. E. C. Field, Mr. H. R. Kurrie and Mr. John D.
Black for plaintiff in error, in opposition thereto.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a personal-injury case. The plaintiff, Haynes
L. Hackett, was a yard switchman in the employ of the
railroad company. While engaged in switching cars in
the yard of the company at Monon, Indiana, on February 4, 1907, he was injured through the negligence of
another. servant of the company who was his immediate
superior as yard foreman. He brought this action in the
Supreme Court of Cook County, Illinois, and recovered a
judgment for $30,000, for the loss of both legs. This was
affirmed by the Appellate Court of Illinois, which was
the highest court of the State to which the case could be
carried.
The plaintiff's declaration- contained thirteen counts.
A demurrer to the first count was sustained and it was

CHICAGO, IND. & L. RY. CO. v. HACKETT.
228 U. S.

561

Opinion of the Court.

dropped out of the case. The remaining counts were
based upon the Indiana act of March 4, 1893 (Acts 1893,
p. 294, c. 130), and particularly the fourth paragraph
thereof. The demurrer to these counts was overruled, and
the plea of not guilty was entered, upon which issue was
joined.
The Indiana statute provides (ยง 1) that "every railroad
or other corporation, except municipal, operating in this
State, shall be liable in damages for personal injuries suffered by any employ6 while in its service, the employ6 so
injured being in the exercise of due care and diligence, in
the following cases." One of the cases described was this:
"When such injury was caused by the negligence of any
person in the service of such corporation who has charge
of any signal, telegraph office, switch yard, shop, round
house, locomotive, engine or train upon a railway."
Shortly stated the case, alleged was that the plaintiff
while assisting in the switching of certain cars from one
track to another was, through the negligence of the yard
foreman, then in control and directing the operation,
thrown violently and negligently from one of the cars and
run over. The plaintiff in error claimed in the state court
that the Indiana statute upon which the action was
brought was invalid as a denial to railroad companies of
the equal protection of the law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. This objection was denied, and the
ruling is assigned as error.
The constitutionality of the act has been upheld by this
court in Tullis v. Lake Erie Railroad, 175 U. S. 348, and.
in L. & N. Railroadv. Melton, 218 U. S. 36.
It is, however, contended that neither of the cases cited
brought before this court the precise question here presented, namely, that the act violates the Fourteenth
Amendment, because upon its face it applies to "any
employ6," thereby embracing in one classification those
employs subjected to the hazards incident to the actual
voL. ccxxviii-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

operation of railway trains with those in other branches of
the service not so subjected, and, therefore, not within the
reason for the classification. Upon this assumption it is
claimed that the act is one which cannot be upheld as valid
as to one class of employds and invalid as to the other embraced within the single classification, and must, therefore,
be condemned as wholly invalid under the rule applied by
this court in Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463.
But this argument overlooks the fact that the act in
question is an act of state legislation, and that its construction is a matter for the state courts of Indiana. If the
Supreme Court of Indiana has construed the act as not
extending to any class of railroad employ6s except those
whose occupation connects them in some way with the
movement of trains where they are exposed to the hazards
incident to the operation and movement of trains and
engines, and the act as thus construed and applied is a
valid enactment, we must accept that as the proper interpretation of the act. The single duty of this court would
then consist in determining whether the act as thus construed violated the equality clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
In repeated decisions the Indiana Supreme Court has
construed the act as one which cannot be invoked by any
class of railroad employ6s not engaged in some branch of
service where they are subjected to the hazards incident
to the movement of trains or engines, and held that as
thus limited the act is valid: Richey v. Cleveland, C., C. &
St. L. Ry. Co., 96 N. E. Rep. 694; Bedford v. Bough, 168
Indiana, 671; Indianapolis Traction & Terminal v. Kinney, 171 Indiana, 612; Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. R. R. Co.
v. Foland, 174 Indiana, 411. Thus the Indiana court, in
Pittsburgh &c. Ry. v. Rogers, 168 Indiana, 483, 484, said:
"It was held by this court in Pittsburgh &c. R. R. Co. v.
Montgomery, 152 Indiana, 1; Indianapolis Union R. Co.
v. Houlihan, 157 Indiana, 494; Pittsburgh &c. R. Co. v.

CHICAGO, IND. & L. RY. CO. v. HACKETT.
228 U. S.

563

Opinion of the Court.

Lightheiser, 168 Illinois, 438; Pittsburgh &c. R. Co. v.
Collins, 168 Illinois, 467; Pittsburgh&c. R.Co. v. Ross, 169
Indiana, 3; that, as applied to railroads, said Employers'
Liability Act was not in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, or
of any provision of the Constitution of this State. In
Pittsburgh&c. R. Co. v. Ross, supra, we said: 'The validity
of this act, so far as it applies to railroads, was upheld in
the case of Pittsburgh &c. R. Co. v. Montgomery, 152 Indiana, 1, and that holding has been twice reaffirmed since
this appeal was filed, . . . and the constitutionality
of the law must be regarded as settled.'
"Following the case of Pittsburgh&c. R. Co. v. Ross, we
hold that the constitutionality of said law must be regarded as settled and it will not be considered in this
case."
In IndianapolisTraction Co. v. Kinney, supra,the court
said:
"Notwithstanding the language of the statute is 'that
every railroad, or other corporation except municipal,
operating in this State, shall be liable for damages for
personal injury suffered by any employ6 while in-its service,' it must not be for a moment understood that the
benefits of the statute are extended to all employds of a
railroad corporation, or to any other class of employ~s
than those whose duties expose them to the peculiar
hazards incident to the use and operation of railroads.
There is no reason, in fact or fancy, why the benefits of the
statute should be extended to the office and shop employds of railroad corporations, or to others removed
from the dangers of train service, and denied to the
multitude of other workmen engaged in businesses of like
and equal hazard.

.

.

.

By this, we do not mean that

it is essential to the bringing of an employ6 within the
statute that he should be connected in some way with the
movement of trains, but it seems sufficient if the per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

formance of his duties brings him into a situation where
he is, without fault, exposed to the dangers and perils
flowing from such operation and movement, and he is, by
reason thereof, injured by the negligence of a fellow servant
described in the act."
That the act, as thus construed and upheld by the highest court of Indiana, does not contravene the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is settled by
the two decisions of this court cited above. But we do not
intimate that the act, if construed as applicable to all
employ6s of a railroad company, would be in contravention of that clause.
The Illinois court held that upon the facts of this case
the yard foreman through whose negligence the plaintiff
Hackett was injured was in charge of a train within the
meaning of the act. The train was in the yard. Its
movements were under the foreman's control. The act
for which the company was held liable under the statute
was, said the Illinois court (170 Ill. App. 156), quoting
from Chicago, Indianapolis &c. Ry. v. Williams, 168 Indiana, 276, "A negligent act occurring at a time when the
doer of the act is in charge or control of a train." To hold
that the operation in the yard of a company, of a train
hauled by an engine, for the purpose of distributing its
cars is not an operation of a train or engine within the
meaning of the Indiana act, and that the negligence of
employ~s directing and controlling the movements of the
train is not the negligence of one in charge of a train
within the fair purpose and meaning of the act, would
be to make the act meaningless as to the most dangerous
class of work which falls to the lot of railroad employ6s.
We therefore conclude that the contention that the
Illinois court erred, either in holding the act valid under
the equal protection clause or in its application of the act
to the facts of this case, is without merit.
It is then said that the Illinois court denied full faith

CHICAGO, IND. & L. RY. CO. v. HACKETT.
228 U. S.

565

Opinion of the Court. -

and credit to the judicial construction of this act by the.
Indiana court. The first answer to this is that there is
no want of harmony between the construction and application of the act by the Illinois court and the interpretation and application of the act by the Indiana court as
indicated by the opinions of that court cited above. A
second and sufficient reason is that the plaintiff in error
did not plead and prove any settled construction of the
act by the Indiana courts. Many opinions of the Indiana
court were put in evidence, though not in support of any
formal plea of settled construction. Neither did the
plaintiff in error specially'set up any right or claim under
the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution until it
did so under its petition for a writ of error from this court.
That was too late. Our right to review the judgment of
the Illinois court arises under ยง 709, Rev. Stat., and is,
therefore, limited to a Federal right specially set up by the
party seeking to take advantage of it and denied by the
state court. In L. & N. Rd. Co. v. Melton, supra, where a
similar question arose touching an alleged departure of
the Kentucky court from the interpretation placed by the
Indiana court upon the statute of Indiana, this court said

(p. 52):
"Our duty, of course, is confined to determining whether
error was committed by the court below as to the Federal
questions involved, and as it is impossible to predicate
error as to matters not pleaded or proved in the court
below, which were essential to be pleaded and proved, it
follows thiat the contention concerning the denial of the
protection of the full faith and credit clause furnishes no
ground for reversal."
We conclude, therefore, that we are not concerned in
the interpretation placed upon the Indiana act unless it
be that that' construction offends against some Federal
right properly asserted and open to our consideration.
It is then assigned as error that the court below erred

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

in not holding that the Indiana statute had been superseded by the Federal Employers' Liability Act of June 11,
1906 (34 Stat. 232, c. 3073). It does appear in one or
more of the counts of the plaintiff's declaration that the
railroad company was engaged in operating a railroad
extending into two or more States, and such was the
evidence. The first count might be said .to declare upon
the liability of the company under the act of 1906. Upon
that ground the case was removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States. But that court remanded it to the
state court. Thereupon defendant demurred to the first
count and the demurrer was sustained. No exception was
saved and no error assigned either in the state court or
in this. In no other way was any claim set up or asserted
under that Federal act, nor did the state court make any
ruling as to the effect of that act upon the Indiana statute,
and the judgment of the Illinois court was rested wholly
upon the Indiana statute. Not having been specially
set up in the state court and there passed upon, it is obvious that the point has not been saved.
But the act of Congress of June 11, 1906, had been held
an invalid exercise of the power of Congress, this court
saying:
"Concluding, as we do, that the statute, whilst it embraces subjects within the authority of Congress to regulate commerce, also includes subjects not within its constitutional power, and that the two are so interblended in
the statute that they are incapable of separation, we are
of the opinion that the courts below rightly held the statute
to be repugnant to the Constitution and non-enforcible."
The Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 504.
That act was therefore as inoperative as if it had never
been passed, for an unconstitutional act is not a law, and
can neither confer a right or immunity nor operate to
supersede any existing valid law. Norton v. Shelby County,
118 U. S. 425, 442; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 376.

TITLE &c. CO.. v. HARLAN & HOLLINGSWORTH. 567
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

The second Employers' Liability Act, which avoided the
faults of the first, was not passed until after the injury
complained of. We pas by as not involved any question
as to the extent to which that act operated to supersede
the Indiana statute. The situation is not at all like that
presented in Northern Pacific Railway v. Washington, 222
U. S. 370. There a perfectly valid act concerning the
hours of service upon railroads engaged in interstate
commerce had been'passed. The mere postponement of
its operation was held not to lessen its effect as a manifestation of the purpose of Congress to regulate a subject which
might be the subject of state legislation only when Congress had been Silent. The effect of this purpose to take
control of the subject was held to supersede an existing
state statute dealing with the same matter from the time
of the passage of the act of Congress. No such purpose
could be manifested by a void statute, since it was not
law for any purpose.
We conclude that the judgment of the court below
should be
Affirmed.

TITLE GUARANTY & SURETY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES, TO THE USE OF HARLAN &
HOLLINGSWORTH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 530.

Submitted April 28, 1913.-Decided May 12, 1913.

As the act of August 13, 1894, relative to. contractors' bonds prior to

the amendment of February 24, 1905, contained no provision as to
jurisdiction of courts in which suits could be brought on such bonds,
the Circuit Court of the district in which the bondsman, if a surety
company, has its principal office, had jurisdiction under the act

