REXFORD v. BRUNSWICK-BALKE CO.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

of the validity and good faith of the Philippine marriage,
and sound reason required that it be not impugned and
discredited through the alleged prior marriage save upon
proof so clear, strong and unequivocal as to produce a
moral conviction of the existence of that impediment. The
conflicting testimony, isolatedly considered, did not
measure up to this standard, and clearly it did not-do so
if proper regard was had for the probative force of the
conduct of all the parties concerned during the many intervening years. Then, too, the lips of Sy Quia and Yap
Puan Niu had been sealed by death, and this, with the
long interval of time, gave unusual opportunity for the
use of fabricated testimony, the untruth of which it would
be difficult to expose.
Giving due effect to these considerations, we cannot say
that the Supreme Court of the Philippines erred in holding
that the Chinese marriage was not adequately proved.
Indeed, we regard the evidence as not producing a moral
conviction of the existence of that marriage, but as leaving
the issue in serious doubt. The decree is accordingly
Affirmed.

REXFORD v. BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 188.

Argued March 14, 1913.-Decided April 14, 1913.

The disqualification under ยง 3 of the Court of Appeals'Act of 1891
arises not only when the judge has tried or heard the whole cause
in the court below, but also when he has tried or heard any question therein upon which it is the duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals
to pass.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Under ยง 3 of the Court of Appeals Act of 1891, a judge is not disqualified
from sitting in a cause because he had previously passed upon a
motion which did not involve a non-waivable question of jurisdiction if the parties voluntarily and unequivocally eliminate all the
questions involved in the motion from consideration by the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The time for filing a petition for removal is not essential to the jurisdiction of the Federal court, and may be the subject of waiver or
estoppel.
Judges of Federal courts should avoid askinig counsel if objections to
the jurisdiction of the court are withdrawn, as the withdrawal of
such objections to be effectual must be purely voluntary.
A decree of the Circuit Court adjudging right of possession to one of
the parties but appointing a special master to take evidence as to
identity of the articles, is not final but interlocutory only and therefore is not appealable.
The act of 1891 does not permit an appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals from a judgment that does not finally dispose of the whole
case.
181 Fed. Rep. 462, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Circuit

Court of Appeals Act as to disqualification of judges to sit
on the trial of cases and as to what judgments are review-

able by the Circuit Court of Appeals, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Julius C. Martin with whom Mr. J. H. Tucker was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. James H. Merrimon, with whom Mr. T. D. Bryson

and Mr. S. W. Black were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN
the court.

DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

This was a suit by the owner of a large body of lands
in two counties in North Carolina to cancel certain deeds

under which the defendant was claiming several thousand

REXFORD v. BRUNSWICK-BALKE CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

growing trees on the lands, to enjoin the defendant from
entering on the premises and cutting or interfering with
any of the trees thereon, and to recover damages for trees
alleged to have been wrongfully cut and removed before
the suit. The bill charged, in effect, that the deeds were
utterly void; that if they were not originally void, all rights
under them had been exhausted by the felling and removal
of all the trees covered by them; and that, if those rights
had not been thus exhausted, they had been lost by abandonment and lapse of time. The answer asserted the
validity of the deeds, alleged that such cutting and removal as occurred prior to the suit was done in the lawful
exercise of the rights acquired under the deeds, denied
that those rights had been lost by abandonment, lapse of
time or otherwise, and asserted that most of the trees
covered by the deeds were still standing and the defendant
was entitled to cut and remove them without any restriction in point of time. It appeared from the pleadings
that the deeds had been exetuted twenty-four years before
the suit and did not purport to cover all the trees, but
only a designated number of pine and poplar trees two
feet in diameter at the butt, all marked with the letter
'L."
After the issues were framed the Circuit Court,
with the acquiescence of the parties, entered the following
order:
"And it appearing to the court that the rights of the
defendants in this action depend primarily on several
questions of law based on documentary evidence of its
title to the trees in question;
"And it further appearing to the court that it would
facilitate the hearing of said cause, if such documentary
evidence were offered and such preliminary question of
title first disposed of by the court;
"Now, therefore, it is ordered that these questions of
law and the documentary evidence bearing thereon be
first presented to the court for argument and all questions

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

of fact in this cause be held in abeyance until said preliminary questions are disposed of by the court."
A partial hearing pursuant to that order resulted in the.
rendition of a decree to the effect that through the deeds
in question the defendant acquired an absolute and indefeasible title in fee simple to the trees therein described, as
also a right of ingress and egress for the purpose of cutting
and removing them, and that under a proper construction
of the deeds the defendant was not restricted to a reasonable time within which to fell and remove the trees, but was
entitled to do so whenever it chose. The decree concluded:
"And this cause is retained for further orders." Shortly
thereafter an order was entered reciting that "there is
much other proof touching the matters in issue necessary
to be heard, looking to a final judgment," and appointing
a special master" to take proofs of all and singular the issues herein (except the evidence in the cause heretofore
heard by this court), especially to take evidence concerning
the identity of certain marked trees described in the plead=
ings, and to report the number and identity of such trees,
and to ascertain and report his findings to this court."
Without awaiting the incoming of the report of the
special master or the action of the court thereon the
plaintiff prayed and was allowed an appeal from the
decree before described to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and the decree was there affirmed. 181 Fed. Rep. 462.
The plaintiff then petitioned this court for a writ of
certiorari, which was allowed.
The first question that claims our attention is, whether
one of the judges who sat at the hearing in the Circuit
Court of Appeals was disqualified under the statutory
provision, act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, ยง 3,
which declares "that no justice or judge before whom a
cause or question may have been tried or heard in a
District Court, or existing Circuit Court, shall sit on the,
trial or hearing of such cause or question in the Circuit

REXFORD v. BRUNSWICK-BALKE CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals." The facts bearing on this question
are these: The suit was begun in a state court, and was
removed to the Circuit Court by the defendant on the
ground of diverse citizenship. The amount in controversy
and the citizenship of the parties were concededlysuch as
to admit of the removal, but the plaintiff, conceiving that
the right of removal was not seasonably asserted, moved
on that ground alone that the suit be remanded to the
state court. The motion was denied, and the plaintiff
excepted. When the cause came on for hearing in the
Circuit Court of Appeals the district judge who had
heard and denied the motion to remand (but had done
nothing else in the case) was sitting as one of the judges
of that court in virtue of an assignment under the Court of
Appeals Act. Counsel for the plaintiff thereupon suggested
the question whether the district judge was disqualified
to sit on the hearing of the appeal, and the court inquired
whether the objection to the removal would be insisted
upon. Counsel for the plaintiff answered that "it would
not" and that he "believed the case had been properly
removed." The hearing then proceeded, the district
judge sitting as one of the judges and participating in the
decision, which made no. mention of the objection to the
removal, doubtless because it was regarded as expressly
withdrawn. In the petition for certiorari and in the supporting brief the plaintiff, although admitting the above
colloquy, insisted that the district judge was nevertheless
disqualified.
Unless what was said by counsel for the plaintiff in that
colloquy completely relieved the Circuit Court of Appeals
from considering and deciding the question relating to the
removal, there can be no doubt of the disqualification of
the district judge. The terms of the statute, before
quoted,. are both direct and comprehensive. Its manifest
purpose is to require that the Circuit Court of Appeals be
composed in every hearing of judges none of whom will be

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

in the attitude of passing upon the propriety, scope or
effect of any ruling of his own made in the progress of the
cause in the court of first instance, and to this end the
disqualification is made to arise, not only when the judge
has tried or heard the whole cause in the court below,
but also when he has tried .or heard any question therein
which it is the duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals to
consider and pass upon. American Construction Co. v.
Jacksonville &c. Co., 148 U. S. 372, 387; Moran v. Dillingham, 174 U. S. 153. That the question may be easy of
solution or that the parties may consent to the judge's
participation in its decision can make no difference, for the
sole criterion under the statute is, does the case in the
Circuit Court of Appeals involve a question which the
judge has tried or heard in the course of the proceedings
in the court below?
Whether such a question was involved in this instance
turns upon the effect to be given to the declaration of
counsel for the plaintiff, made before the hearing was
begun in the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the objection
to the removal would not be insisted upon, because he
believed the case was properly removed. If that operated
to eliminate the question relating to the removal and to
relieve the court from considering or deciding it, it seems
plain that the statute did not apply. On the other hand,
if counsel's declaration amounted only to a consent that
the court as then composed might proceed to a hearing
and decision of that question, it seems equally plain that
the statute did apply and that the consent given was of no
effect whatever. We think the former is the correct view.
Whether the removal was taken within the time designated in the removal act was a question which the plaintiff
could raise and insist upon or waive at his option. It was
not jurisdictional in the sense that the Circuit Court or the
Circuit Court of Appeals was required to notice it sua
sponte. As was said by this court in Powers v. Chesapeake

REXFORD v. BRUNSWICK-BALKE CO.
228 U. S.

345

Opinion of the Court.

& Ohio Railway Co., 169 U. S. 92, 98: "The existence of
diverse citizenship, or other equivalent condition cf
jurisdiction, is fundamental; the want of it will be taken
notice of by the bourt of its own motion, and cannot be
waived by either party. Manchester &c. Railway v.
Swan, 111 U. S. 379. .But the time of filing a petition for
removal is not essential to the jurisdiction; the provision
on that subject is, in the words of Mr. Justice Bradley,
'but modal and formal,' and a failure to comply with it
may be the subject of waiver or estoppel." (Citing cases.)
Of course, to be of any effect the withdrawal of the
question which the judge has tried or heard in the lower
court must be purely voluntary. The record shows that
it was so in this instance, and counsel for the plaintiff
has not suggested the contrary. But that our ruling may
not be misapprehended, we deem it well to observe that
the court should avoid such an inquiry as was made of
counsel in this case, lest it be mistaken for an invitation
to withdraw the question. Our ruling rests on the ground
that there was no such mistake here.
With the question arising on the removal proceedings
eliminated, as we think it was by counsel's declaration,
there was. left no ground for regarding the district judge
as disqualified.
The plaintiff advances several arguments to show that
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals should have
been one of reversal, rather than of affirmance, but it
will not be necessary to state or consider them. In the
Federal courts an appeal, as a general rule, lies only from
a final decree. It is otherwise in the exceptional instances
specified in ยง 7 of the Court of Appeals Act as amended
April 14, 1906, 34 Stat. 116, c. 1627, and in two or three
similar enactments, but none of. these includes the present case. What we have said of the decree of the Circuit
Court shows that it was not final,. but interlocutory only..
It'did not dispose of all the issues and was but a step to-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

ward a final hearing and decree. Further proofs were
yet to be taken, and not until that was done could the
entire controversy presented by the pleadings be adjudicated. This was recognized by the retention of the case
for further orders and by the subsequent reference to a
special master to take the remaining proofs. Plainly
such a decree is not appealable. If it were, the case could
be taken to the appellate court in fragments by successive
appeals. But this the law wisely prevents by postponing
the right of appeal until there is a final decree disposing
of the whole case. Perkins v. Fourniquet, 6 How. 206;
Grant v* Phconix Ins. Co., 106 U. S. 429; McGourkey v.
Toledo & Ohio Ry. Co., 146 U. S. 536; Covington v. Covington First National Bank, 185 U. S. 270; Ex parte National
Enameling and Stamping Co., 201 U. S. 156.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in entertaining
the appeal, its decision is vacated and the case is remanded
to the District Court, as successor to the Circuit Court,
with directions to proceed to a final disposition of the case
in regular course.
Reversed.

MICHIGAN TRUST COMPANY v. FERRY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 200,*201.

Argued March 20, 1913.-Decided April 21, 1913.

While ordinarily jurisdiction over a person is based on the power of
the sovereign to seize and imprison*him, it is one of the decencies of
civilization that when the power exists and has been asserted at the
beginning of a, cause, the necessity of maintaining the physical power
is dispensed with.
Under the full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution, if a
judicial proceeding is begun with jurisdiction over the .person of the
party concerned, it is within the power of the State to bind that

person by every subsequent order in the cause.

