OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

JORDAN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. ROCHE.
SAME v. ROSS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 202, 203.

Argued April 15, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

Bay rum imported from Porto Rico subsequent to the passage of the
Foraker Act and prior to the passage of the act of February 4, 1909,
was subject to the payment of a tax equal to the internal revenue tax
imposed in the United States, under §§ 3248 and 3254, Rev. Stat., on
distilled spirits, spirits, alcohol, and alcoholic spirits.
The provision in § 3 of the Foraker Act, that with the institution of a
system of taxation in Porto Rico, tariff duties on goods coming to and
from Porto Rico and the United States should cease, is explicitly
confined to such duties and does not relate to internal revenue
taxes established in the act.
A statute declaring that a specified article shall be taxed and how is
not necessarily a declaration by Congress that such article was not
taxed under prior statutes; its history may show, as in the case of

the act of February 4, 1909, that it was not the declaration of a new
policy but a more explicit expression of prior statutes.
The purpose of the Foraker Act was the equal taxation of Porto Rican
articles and domestic articles.
The language of § 3248, Rev. Stat., is comprehensive enough to cover
all distilled spirits.
Under the revenue laws of the United States articles are taxed not by
their commercial names or uses, but according to their alcoholic
contents, under the generic name of "distilled spirits."
THE facts, which involve the liability of bay rum, imported from Porto Rico subsequent to the Foraker Act,
to a tax equal to the internal revenue tax under §§ 3248
and 3254, Rev. Stat., on distilled spirits, are stated in the
opinion.

JORDAN v. ROCHE.
228 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. John David Lannon, with whom Mr. Howard T.
Walden and Mr. Henry J. Webster were on the brief, for
defendants in error:
The act of February 4, 1909, taxing bay rum imported
from Porto Rico, was a declaration by Congress that
it was not subject to a tax under prior statutes. This
act is in pari materia with § 3 of the Foraker Act and
should be construed with it. United States v. Freedman, 3
How. 556, 564; Tiger v. Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286, 309.
Had the tax existed, Congress would not have passed
that act. It did so because it believed it was necessary
because the article was not then taxed. Cope v. Cope,
137 U. S. 682, 688, and see Morris v. Mellen, 6 Barn. & C.
446, 454.
The existing situation, contemporaneous events and
conditions to be changed, are proper guides to the meaning
of the statute and this court has sanctioned their use.
Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 463.
The history of the act and the amendment of the title
demonstrated its purpose and scope and indicated that
Congress did not intend to declare the purposes of § 3 of
the Foraker bill. United States v. Press Publishing Co.,
219 U. S. 1 at 13.
The debate on a bill in Congress may be resorted to as a
means of ascertaining the situation at the time of its enactment. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 221.
That debate shows that there then was no tax on Porto
Rican bay rum. Cong. Rec., Vol. 43, pt. I, p. 910.
The best way to find out what Congress intended is to
put one's self in the place of Congress. Ex parte Milligan,
4 Wall. 2, 11f4; Union & St. P. R. R. Co. v. Barney,
113 U. S. 618, 624; Platt v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 99
U. S. 48, 64.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

228 U. S.

The act of February 4, 1909, has become a statement
by Congress that bay rum imported from Porto Rico was
not taxed by § 3 of the Foraker Act, and this is so whether
it be because it amounts to an adoption by Congress of the
decision of the court in Newhall v. Anderson (supra), to
this effect, or to what Chief Justice Marshall called a
complete demonstration of the legislative sense of its own
language. Alexander v. Alexandria, 5 Cranch, 1, 7.
Porto Rican bay rum is the article of merchandise "like"
to bay rum of domestic manufacture and not "like" to
distilled spirits of domestic manufacture.
If bay rum of domestic manufacture does not pay a
tax, then the like article of Porto Rican manufacture is
not liable to a tax. For definition of "manufacture" see
Anheuser Busch Assn. v. United States, 207 U. S. 556,
562; United States v. Semmer, 41 Fed. Rep. 324, 326.
There is a substance like to bay rum manufactured in
the United States called by the same name and manufactured in the same way, on the manufacture of which
there is no tax. See Newhall v. Jordan,149 Fed. Rep. 586;
Newhall v. Anderson, 161 Fed. Rep. 906.
Bay rum has never been treated as distilled spirits
under the revenue laws or under the customs laws.
Under the Dingley Tariff Act it was taxed at a lower
rate of duty than that imposed on spirits. 30 Stat. 151;
see §§ 289 and 294. See also present tariff act of August 5,
1909; No. 17840 G. A. 3774. As to classification of bay
rum, see Hollendarv. Magone, 149 U. S.586.
Bay rum is treated, in the decisions under the Internal
Revenue Laws as being an entirely different article from
distilled spirits. See Stamp Act July 13, 1868, § 9; Act of
July 14, 1870, § 1, Schedule "C"; 7 Int. Rev. Dec., p. 11;
War Revenue Act of June 13, 1898; Treas. Dec., 1898,
No. 19767; Treas. Dec., 1904, Int. Rev., No. 812; Act of
February 8, 1875, § 18, as amended by act of 1872, § 4,
20 Stat., c. 327; Treas. Dec., 1901, Int. Rev. 404; Treas.

JORDAN v. ROCHE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Dec., 1905, Int. Rev., No. 922, Circular No. 673; Treas.
Dec., 1905, Int. Rev., No. 934; United States v. Stubblefield, 40 Fed. Rep. 454; United States v. Wilson, 69 Fed.
Rep. 144. The term "distilled spirits" as used in this
section has been held to include all spirits which have
been distilled whether they have been subsequently rectified or not. Boyd v. United States, 14 Blatchf. 317.
Bay rum manufactured in the United States is not subject to an internal revenue tax. See Treas. Dec., 1901,
Int. Rev. 404. Rev. Stat., § 3251, does not include bay
rum.

In construing taxing statutes the taxpayer is entitled
to the most favorable construction and any doubt is
to be resolved-in his favor. Hartranft v. Weighmann, 121
U. S. 609; Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468.
The Foraker Act does not provide for any tax on merchandise imported from Porto Rico into the United States
after July 25, 1901.
MR. JUSTICE MCK4NNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Actions were brought in the Circuit Court, Eastern
District of New York, to recover money paid upon cer-.
tain importations of bay rum from Porto Rico. Judgment
was entered for defendants in the actions, and error was
prosecuted from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Secpnd Circuit, and that court certifies the following
question to this court:
"Was bay rum imported from Porto Rico subsequent
to the passage of the act of April 12, 1900, and prior to the
passage of the act of February 4, 1909, subject to the
payment of a tax equal to the internal revenue tax imposed in the 'United States under §§ 3248 and 3254 on
'distilled spirit, spirits, alcohol, and alcoholic spirit?"'
The facts are these: In the years 1907 and 1908 plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

tiffs imported from the Island of Porto Rico certain casks
of bay rum manufactured in said island. -Upon arrival at
the port of New York, the Collector of Internal -Revenue
for the first district collected taxes upon the same under
the act of April 12 afid §§ 3248 and 3254 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States. Plaintiffs duly protested
against such exaction and paid the same to obtain delivery
of the goods. Bay rum is a fragrant spirit obtained by
distilling rum with the leaves of the bay-berry, or by mixing various oils with alcohol.
The act of April 12, 1900, referred to in the question
certified, is known as the Foraker Act (31 Stat. 77, c. 191).
Section 3 provides that after the passage of the act all
merchandise coming into the United States from Porto
Rico, and reversely, shall be subject toa duty of 15% of the
duties which were required to be levied upon like articles
imported from foreign countries, and, in addition thereto,
articles of merchandise of Porto Rican manufacture coming into the United States shall pay "a tax equal to the
internal revenue tax imposed in the United States upon
the like articles of merchandise of domestic manufacture."
Articles of United States manufacture coming into Porto
Rico were required to pay a tax equal to the internal
revenue tax imposed on like articles of Porto Rican
manufacture. It was provided that whenever the legislature of Porto Rico should put into operation a system of
local taxation the President should make proclamation
thereof and thereupon all tariff duties upon goods going
from the United States into Porto Rico, or from Porto
Rico to the United States, should cease and all such
articles should be free of duty.
Section 4 of the act provided that the duties and taxes
imposed under § 3 should not be paid into the Treasury of
the United States, but should be placed at the disposal of
the President, to be used for the government of Porto
Rico, and that. upon the organization of the government

JORDAN i,. ROCHE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Porto Rico such moneys should be transferred to the
local treasury of Porto Rico, the duties and taxes to be
collected at such ports and by such officers as the Secretary of the Treasury should designate. And it was provided that as soon as civil government was established
in Porto Rico the President was to make proclamation
thereof, and thereafter all duties and taxes in Porto Rico
under the provisions of the act, should be paid into the
treasury of Porto Rico and expended as required by law.
The proclamation of the President referred to in § 3 was
issued July 25, 1901, 32 Stat., part 2, p. 1983, and all
tariff duties on merchandise coming into the United
States from Porto Rico ceased. The internal revenue
tax upon articles of Porto Rican manufacthire remained
as that imposed "upon the like articles of merchandise
of domestic manufacture" (§ 3). This, however, plaintiffs dispute, contending that the Foraker Act was intended to be, and was declared to be, an act temporarily
to provide revenue, and that with the institution of a
system of taxation in Porto Rico the act ceased to have
operation. The contention is untenable. The act explicitly declares that the tariff duties shall cease. The
distinction was deliberate and its effect unmistakable.
We repeat, therefore, that the internal revenue tax upon
Porto Rican articles remains as that imposed "upon the
like articles of domestic manufacture." Upon the quoted
words the controversy in this case turns. What shall
determine the likeness between articles of domestic and
Porto Rican manufacture, their name or their substance?
The latter is the Government's contention; the former is
that of plaintiffs.
The. contention of plaintiffs has the support of Newhall
v. Jordan in the Circuit Court of the Eastern District of
New York (149 Fed. Rep. 586); also of the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Second Circuit in Anderson v. Newhall
(161 Fed. Rep. 906), sustaining a judgment of the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Court of the Southern District of New York. But the
Circuit Court of Appeals seems to have come to doubt the
correctness of its ruling, for the present certificate i3
from that court, and bears the signature of Judges Lacombe and Ward, who constituted a majority of the court
when Anderson v. Newhall was decided. We realize,
therefore, that the contentions of the parties present a
close question.
. Bay rum is a fragrant spirit obtained by distilling rum
with the leaves of the bay-berry, or by mixing various
oils with alcohol. We must seek its likeness in the revenue
laws, and the' Government contends that it is found in
§§ 3248, 3254, 3251 and 3282, as respectively amended
by the acts of August 28, 1894 (28 Stat. 509, 563, c. 349).
and March 1, 1879 (20 Stat. 327, 335, c. 125).
. Plaintiffs contend that "Porto Rican bay rum is the
article of merchandise 'like' to bay rum of domestic
manufacture; and not 'like' to distilled spirits of domestic
manufacture."
And then insisting, and quoting the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue in support of the insistence, that as there is no internal revenue tax imposed
on bay rum, as such, it follows necessarily "that if bay
rum of domestic manufacture does not pay a tax, then the
article of Porto Rican manufacture is not liable to pay
a tax." And stress is put upon "manufacture" as defined
in Anheuser-Busch Association v. United States, 207 U. S.
556, 562, where it is said, "There must be a transformation; a new and different article must emerge, 'having a
distinctive name, character or use."' And bay rum, it is
asserted, satisfies the distinction and has been regarded as
satisfying it in the laws, also commercially and practically.
It has never been treated, it is said, as distilled spirits, but
has been treated as different "by every person and every
court and every department of the Government until these
Porto Rican imports were made." This is the substance
of plaintiffs' argument. We cannot follow it in its details.

JORDAN v. ROCHE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Government replies to it that the purpose of the
Foraker Act was to apply the revenue laws of the United
States to Porto Rican articles and to do this comprehensively, not by special or variable adaptations. No
article containing alcoholic spirits, the Government says,
is taxed in the general statutes of the United States by its
commercial name, but that all such articles are provided
for and taxed in Chapter 4, of the Revised Statutes, under
the name of "distilled spirits." It is hence argued that
domestic bay rum being "distilled spirits" for the purpose
of internal revenue taxation, Porto Rican bay rum must
be considered as "distilled spirits" and subject to the
same tax. In other words, the likeness is established by
the essential nature of tle article, not by its name. "If
this be not so," it is further argued, "not only will the
internal revenue tax on Porto Rican bay rum fail, but the
tax on Porto Rican alcohol, whiskey, brandy, gin, ordinary
rum, and on all wines, liqueurs and cordials, will also fail,
because no tax is laid on any such article eo nomine by
our internal revenue laws, but all are embraced in one
generic article 'distilled spirits."' We think the argument'
is complete and irresistible. The purpose of the Foraker
Act, the provisions of the internal revenue laws and the
administration of both, by departmental officers all concur
in support of the Government's contention. The purpose
of the Foraker Act was the equal taxation of Porto Rican
articles and domestic articles; the provisions of the internal
revenue laws do not describe articles by name but by character; the revenue officers have construed them as applicable to Porto Rico, except for a few months following the
decision in Newhall v. Anderson, Collector.
The language of the revenue laws is comprehensive
enough to cover all distilled spirits. Section 3248, after
specifically defining them to be "that substance known
as ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirit of wine,
which is commonly produced by the fermentation if

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

grain, starch, molasses, or sugar, including all dilutions
and mixtures of this substance," provides that "the tax
shall attach to this substance as soon as it is in existence
as such," no matter in what state it may be subsequently
separated or in what other substance it may be subsequently transferred.
By § 3254 it is provided that "all products of distillation, by whatever name known, which contain distilled
spirits or alcohol, on which the tax imposed by law has
not been paid, shall be considered and taxed as distilled
spirits." In other words, all mixtures or dilutions of the
substance so defined, and more specifically in § 3248, are
subject to a tax as "distilled spirits." And it is provided
in § 3282, as amended, that the use of "spirits or alcohol,
in manufacturing vinegar or any other article, or in any
process of manufacture whatever," is prohibited "unless
the spirits or alcohol so used shall have been produced in
an authorized distillery and the tax thereon paid."
The .purpose of the law to impose a tax upon the compounds of alcohol under the single designation of "distilled spirits" receives confirmation from the exemptions
from the tax. Six exemptions are pointed out by the
Government, as follows: (1) alcohol withdrawn for scientific purposes by scientific institutions or colleges of learning; (2) wine spirits used in the fortification of sweet wines
under certain restrictions; (3) distilled spirits used in the
manufacture of sugar from sorghum, or (4) purchased by
fhe United States for government uses, or (5) exported in
bond or with benefit of drawback of taxes paid; and (6) distilled spirits denatured in accordance with the Denatured
Alcohol Act.
These considerations demonstrate, we think; that bay
rum is subject to a tax as an alcoholic distillate.
We have already stated the chief contention of plaintiffs
to be that the test of a tax on Porto Rican articles must be
a tax upon domestic articles of like name, and that this is

JORDAN v. ROCHE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

especially so as to bay rum, it is contended, is established
by the fact that under the tariff act, bay rum, as a commercial afticle, is taxed at a lower rate than brandy, and
other spirits not specifically provided for. And, further,
that bay rum, under the revenue act of June 13, 1898, 30
Stat. 446, c. 448, was taxed or held taxable by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue under the head of "perfumery and cosmetics." So .also the ruling of the Commissioner, it is urged, refusing to hold that druggists and
bay rum dealers, were liquor dealers, which, it is contended, he would necessarily have to hold them to be, if
bay rum were to be considered an alcoholic distillate. It
is not necessary to answer these contentions in detail.
They have, when taken by themselves, an appearance of
strength. They may, however, be explained by other
statutory provisions. A general answer to them is that
the purpose of the Foraker Act, was, as we have said, to
subject Porto Rican articles to the internal revenue laws
of the United States, and under those laws, articles are
taxed not by their commercial names or uses, but according to their alcoholic content, under the generic name of
"distilled spirits."
One other contention of plaintiffs we may notice. On
February 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 594, c.'65, Congress passed
the act by which it is provided "that upon bay rum, or
any article containing alcohol, hereafter brought from
Porto Rico into the United States for consumption or sale
there shall be-paid a tax on the spirits contained therein
of one dollar and ten cents per proof gallon," and the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue is given power to establish rules to make the act effective. It is insisted
that this act is a declaration by Congress that bay rum
was not subject to a tax under prior statutes. The history
of the act rejects the contention and manifests that the
act was passed in consequence of the decision in Newhall
v. Anderson, and the other decisions to which we have

OCTOBER TERM. 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

referred. The law was not the declaration of a new policy
but a more explicit expression of the purpose of the prior
law, made necessary by the judicial construction of that
law.
The question certified is, therefore, answered in the affirmative.

BRADFORD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 571.

Submitted March 24, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

One convicted of fraud in obtaining patents to public lands filed a
petition for pardon which was granted on condition that he make full
restitution to the 'satisfaction of the United States Attorney for the
district in which the land was situated, in respect to all land, land
titles or claims to land. He filed a relinquishment reserving under
the laws of the State in which the land was situated the right to all
improvements, the value thereof, with all taxes theretofore paid and
to proceed against the United States for the same. He then brought
suit in the Court of Claims therefor: Held that
Under the conditions of the pardon which he accepted no right was
wrested from him; but, as he was to make voluntary restitution for
his wrong-doing, he was not deprived of his lands or property nor
evicted therefrom..
The power of the United States Attorney was limited by the subjectmatter of the agency; and the fact that the restitution was to be
made to his satisfaction did hot enlarge his authority so as to bind
the United States to make payments to one who was to make restitution to it.
Whatever rights the laws of the State might give under such conditions,
the United States is not bound thereby, as no contract was established against it.
47 Ct. Cl. 141, affirmed.

Suit in the Court of Claims under the Tucker Act, socalled, to recover the sum of $15,791.92.

