SY JOC LIENG v. SY QUIA.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

rule of this court. That in itself it cannot confer jurisdiction is too plain for controversy. Seaboard Air Line v.
Duvall, 225 U. S. 477; Home for Incurables v. New York,
187 U. S. 155. At the utmost it may aid to the understand-

ing of the record. Gulf & Ship Island Railway v. Hewes,
183 U. S. 66.
For the reasons stated, the writ of error must be

Dismissed.

SY JOC LIENG v. GREGORIO SY QUIA.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 177.

Argued March 7, 10, 1913.-Decided April 14, 1913.

Every presumption is in favor of the validity of a marriage where the
marital relations have continued uninterruptedly for over forty
years without any question being raised or right asserted by anyone
claiming under an earlier marriage of one of the parties until more
than ten years after the death, and five years after the distribution
of the property, of that party.
The validity of such a marriage should not be impugned exc( It upon
clear, strong and unequivocal proof; nor in the absence of such proof
will this court reverse the judgment of the lower court sustaining
its validity when attacked by those who had opportunity to do so
before the death of both spouses.
16 Phil. Rep. 137, affirmed.
facts, which involve conflicting claims to the estate
of a Chinese merchant domiciled in the Philippine Islands
and of the validity of his marriage, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. Jackson H. Ralston,. with whom Mr. W. Morgan
Shuster, Mr. Clement L. Bouvg,, Mr. Frederick L. Siddons

and Mr. Win. E. Richardson were on the brief, for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Mr. Antonio M. Opisso and Mr. James H. Blount for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This appeal brings under review a decree of the Supreme
Court of the Philippines in a suit involving conflicting
claims to the estate of a Chinese merchant domiciled in
those Islands and there known as Vicente Romero Sy
Quia, who died intestate at Manila in 1894. The appellants, who were plaintiffs in the Court of First Instance,
claim as descendants of a marriage between the intestate
and Yap Puan Niu, a Chinese woman, said to have been
contracted in 1847 at Am Thau, in the Province of Amoy,
China. The appellees claim as the descendants of a
marriage with Petronila Encarnacion, a Filipino woman,
celebrated in 1853 at Vigan, in the Philippines. The
principal question here, as in the Insular courts, is whether
the proof sufficiently established the Chinese marriage.
On this the Insular courts differed, the Court of First
Instance finding the marriage adequately proved, aid the
Supreme Court, one justice dissenting, holding the other
way. 16 Phil. Rep. 137. Before coming to the evidence
directly addressed to this question it will be well to state
the facts about which there is no dispute.
Sy Quia was born at Am Thau, China, in 1822, and went
to the Philippines at the age of 12. At first he was located
in Manila, but at some time before 1852 went to Vigan
and entered the service of a merchant at an annual salary
of 200 pesos. During that year he was converted to the
Catholic faith and was baptized in the parish church. The
next year he married Petronila, the banns being regularly
published and the marriage publicly solemnized according
to the rites of the church, as a preliminary to which he
affirmed under oath, and the civil and ecclesiastical

SY JOC LIENG v. SY QUIA.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authorities certified after inquiry, that he was then unmarried. Shortly after the marriage he and Petronila
took up their permanent home in Manila. They were
then without any particular property other than 5,000
pesos which she received from her mother and brought into
the conjugal society. He became a merchant, and through
their united efforts they accumulated real and personal
property amounting at the time of his death to upwards of
600,000 pesos. They lived in a manner becoming the
marital state and were universally recognized as husband
and wife. Three sons and two daughters were born of the
marriage. One of the daughters married and predeceased
her father, leaving a son surviving. The other died after
the father, leaving the mother as her only heir. Following
Sy Quia's death the widow administered the estate, with
the aid of the sons, until 1900, when through appropriate
judicial proceedings the property was distributed among
the *widow, sons and grandson as the persons rightly
entitled thereto. The present suit was brought in 1905,
more than half a century after the marriage, and then for
the first time was its validity or its good faith as to either
spouse brought in question-a fact which is of particular
significance, first, because Yap Puan Niu, the alleged
Chinese wife, visited in Manila at the home of a brother' of
Sy Quia twice during the life of the latter, and, second, because two of the plaintiffs were adults living in Manila at
the time of Sy Quia's death and during the eleven years
intervening before the suit was brought.
There was testimony, taken by way of depositions in
China, tending to show that Sy Quia returned from the
Philippines to Am Thau in 1847, when he was 25 years
old; that during that year he married Yap Puan Niu, the
marriage being properly arranged and celebrated; that
he remained at Am Thau three or four years, during which
two sons were born of this marriage; that he then returned
to the Philippines and Yap Puan Niu continued to reside
voL, ccxxvin-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

at Am Thau, dying there in 1891; that the four plaintiffs
are the only living descendants of this marriage, two being
grandsons, one a granddaughter, and one a great-grandson.
Six of the witnesses in China testified directly to the
marriage, and their testimony, if standing alone, would
be quite persuasive of its occurrence, notwithstanding
some discrepancies in their statements. But this testimony did not stand alone. It was met and contradicted
by that of several Filipino witnesses, taken mostly by
deposition, to the effect that they had known Sy Quia
in Vigan for some years before his marriage to Petronila
in 1853, and that he was living there during the period
when, according to the opposing testimony, he married
Yap Puan Niu and remained in China. One of these
witnesses was an aged man, who testified with certainty
that he was a student at Manila between 1839 and 1845
and knew Sy Quia there; that he, the witness, was married
at Vigan in 1847, and that Sy Quia was living there then.
Others of these witnesses gave kindred reasons for their.
ability to speak with precision concerning Sy Quia's
presence at Vigan during the period in question. Still
other witnesses gave testimony more or less corroborative
of these opposing theories, but it was less direct and was
also contradictory.
In addition to this conflicting testimony there was this
situation, as before indicated: The Philippine marriage
and the forty years of uninterrupted marital life following
it were not only established but conceded. While Sy
Quia lived- the validity of that marriage passed unchallenged and no right was asserted under the one alleged
to have occurred in China. More than this, the right of
the widow and children of the Philippine marriage to the
property acquired during its existence went unquestioned
for eleven years after his death and for five years after
the judicial distribution of the property.
In these circumstances every presumption was in favor

REXFORD v. BRUNSWICK-BALKE CO.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

of the validity and good faith of the Philippine marriage,
and sound reason required that it be not impugned and
discredited through the alleged prior marriage save upon
proof so clear, strong and unequivocal as to produce a
moral conviction of the existence of that impediment. The
conflicting testimony, isolatedly considered, did not
measure up to this standard, and clearly it did not-do so
if proper regard was had for the probative force of the
conduct of all the parties concerned during the many intervening years. Then, too, the lips of Sy Quia and Yap
Puan Niu had been sealed by death, and this, with the
long interval of time, gave unusual opportunity for the
use of fabricated testimony, the untruth of which it would
be difficult to expose.
Giving due effect to these considerations, we cannot say
that the Supreme Court of the Philippines erred in holding
that the Chinese marriage was not adequately proved.
Indeed, we regard the evidence as not producing a moral
conviction of the existence of that marriage, but as leaving
the issue in serious doubt. The decree is accordingly
Affirmed.

REXFORD v. BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 188.

Argued March 14, 1913.-Decided April 14, 1913.

The disqualification under ยง 3 of the Court of Appeals'Act of 1891
arises not only when the judge has tried or heard the whole cause
in the court below, but also when he has tried or heard any question therein upon which it is the duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals
to pass.

