SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

SANTA FE, PRESCOTT & PH(IENIX RAILWAY
COMPANY v. GRANT BROTHERS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 147. Argued January 24, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.
A rule of law restricting tht right of contract which rests on principles
of public policy, because of the public ends to be achieved, extends
no further than the reason for it and does not apply to contracts
wholly outside of and not affecting those ends.
The rule that common carriers cannot secure immunity from liability
for their own negligence has no application when a railroad company
is acting outside the performance of its duty as a common carrier.
In such a case the ordinary rules of law relating to contracts control.
A contract made by a railroad company for construction work is
one made outside of the performance of its duty as a common carrier, and a stipulation that the contractor, in consideration of lawfully reduced rates for transportation of supplies and employ~s, will
assume all risk of damage of any kind even if occasioned by the
company's negligence, is not void as against public policy. Balt. &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. Voight,,176 U. S. 498, followed; Railroad Co. v.
Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, distinguished.
In dealing with transportation of supplies and employ~s of contractors
in connection with construction and improvement of its own road,
a railroad company does not act as a common carrier; arrangements
made in good faith with such contractors for free or reduced rates
are not violations of the prohibitions of the Interstate Commerce
Act against rebates. See Matter of Railroad-TelegraphContracts, 12
I. C. C. Rep. 10.
Where no rule of public policy denies effect to stipulations in a contract, the highest public policy is found in enforcing the contract as
actually made.
Courts are not at liberty to revise contracts. They can only determine
what the parties meant by the terms and expressions as used.
In this case held that expressions to effect that the contractor assumed
"all risk and damage" and the railroad company assumed "no
obligation or risk" in a contract between a railroad company and
VOL. CCXXVII-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

228 U. S.

contractor for construction of roadbed and not in connection with
duties as a common carrier, included damage caused by the company's own negligence.
Quwre to what extent a contractor can by a stipulation, valid as to
himself and in consideration of reduced rates of transportation,
exeinpt a railroad company from liability to his employ~s for damages sustained by them from negligence of the railroad company
while transporting them.
13 Arizona, 186, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
between a railway company and a construction contractor and the liability of the former for materials belonging to the latter destroyed by fire, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Gardiner Lathrop, with whom Mr. Robert Dunlap
and Mr. Paul Burks were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. Isidore B. Dockweiler, with whom Mr. A. C. Baker
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The railroad company was a common carrier of the
goods destroyed, and hence, could not by contract absolve itself from liability to the defendant in error for its
acts of negligence.
For the true test to determine whether a party is a
common carrier, see 1 Hutchinson on Carriers, § 48, 3d
ed.; all the elements of which test are found and fully
satisfied in the case at bar.
Plaintiff in error undertook to carry goods of the kind
destroyed, to wit, miscellaneous merchandise, such as
railroads usually carry, and for which it had an established
tariff rate,by the methods by which its business was conducted and over its established road.
. The transportation was for hire, for the established
tariff rate of "one cent per mile per ton" as set forth in the
agreement.

SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Plaintiff in error owed an actionable duty to the defendant in error to transport the latter's goods of the class
and kind destroyed.
The plaintiff in error being a common carrier with respect to the goods shipped by defendant in error, then,
though the carriage was by special contract, it still remained a common carrier. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17
Wall. 376; Liverpool &c. St. Co. v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 129
U. S. 397; Mears v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 75 Connecticut, 171.
Plaintiff in error having no right to refuse to carry the
goods of defendant in error, could not contract for their
carriage in any capacity except as a common carrier.
Liverpool & G. W. S. Co. v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397;
4 Elliott on Railroads, pp. 11, 12; 1 Hutchinson on Carriers, § 44; C. W. & St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, 66 Fed. Rep.
506.
The fact that the contract of carriage of the destroyed
goods of the contractor was incidental to a contract having
for its principal object the construction of a subsidiary
line of plaintiff in error cannot change the character of
plaintiff in error to that of a private carrier.
Being a common carrier, plaintiff in error could not by
contract absolve itself from liability to the shipper for its
acts of negligence. B. & 0. S. W. Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176
U. S. 498; The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263.
To hold the railroad company as a common carrier
does not render the contract violative of the Interstate
Commerce Law.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has construed
the statute as not preventing "a common carrier from
giving free or reduced rate carriage over its lines to contractors for materials, supplies and men. 12 I. C. C. Rep.
11.
The object of the statute is "to secure just and reasonable charges for transportation," and "to prevent unjust

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

228 U. S.

discrimination in the rendition of services under similar
conditions."
The case at bar is an action ex delicto and not ex contractu.
•The contract of carriage did not in terms exempt the
railroad company from liability for its acts of negligence,
and, therefore, the exemption contracted for was from
loss occasioned by the dangers naturally incident to the
carriage, and not from damage brought about by the carrier's negligence. N. J. St. N. Co. v. Bank, 6 How. 344;
Maynard v. Syracuse Ry. Co., 71 N. Y. 183; 4 Elliott on
Railroads, § 1508; 1 Hutchinson on Carriers, § 463 (3d
ed.); Monographic Note, 88 Am. St. Rep. 68, p. 119.
The determination of the question of negligence was
properly submitted to the jury.
Neither the question of negligence, nor the question
whether such negligence was the proximate cause of the
loss, properly arises upon this appeal. Those were finally
settled below.
The facts of the case being such that reasonable men
may fairly differ upon the question as to whether there
was negligence or not, the determination of the matter was for the jury, and their verdict will not be disturbed on appeal. Grand Trunk Ry. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408;
21 Enc. Law, 498; Marande v. Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co., 184
U. S. 173.
The negligence being found, the commission and omission of acts exposing the goods of the contractor to dangers of destruction or loss and failure to safeguard the
same from injury, the question of proximate cause became
one of fact for the jury, and no independent, intermediate
efficient cause appearing, the original wrong must be considered as reaching to the effect and proximate to it.
Mil. & St. P. R. Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S.470; Aetna Ins.
Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S.117; Hays v. Mich. Cen. R. Co., 111
U. S.228; The G.B. Booth, 171 U. S.450; Hays v. Williams,

SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

17 Colorado, 472; Pullman P. C. Co. v. Laack, 143 Illinois,
260.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Grant Brothers Construction Company recovered
judgment in the District Court of the Territory of Arizona
for $9,061 for the loss of its property by fire on June 6,
1907, between Bouse and Phcenix, Arizona, while in course
of transportation on the railroad operated by the Santa
Fe, Prescott & Phenix Railway Company, the plaintiff
in error. The judgment was entered upon a verdict of a
jury, a motion for a new trial was denied, and the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory,
13 Arizona, 186.
The Railway Company had been engaged in building,
westerly from its main line, a branch railroad known as
the Arizona and California Railroad. For this purpose it
entered into a contract with the Construction Company
for the necessary grading. The property in question consisted of the camp and grading outfit, and supplies,
belonging to the Construction Company, which had been
used by it in this work, and was being removed by reason
of its completion. At the time in question the branch line
was operated regularly only as far as Bouse and the
property was loaded on cars "at the front" or end of
track, about twelve miles west of that station, to be
carried to Phoenix. The superintendent, foremen and
about fifty workmen of the Construction Company were
taken on the cars at the same place for the same destination.
The cars were hauled by the Railway Company to
Bouse (where explosives and hay were unloaded), and
were there attached to a regular train which brought them
to a point known as the A. and C. Junction, where the
Arizona and California line joined the main line of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Railway Company. At this junction (which was about
four miles from Wickenburg, a station on the main line
in the direction of Phoenix) all the cars containing the
outfit of the Construction Company, save one, were cut
out of the train and were put upon a side-track. The
rest of the train, with the employ6s of the Construction
Company, went on to Wickenburg. This took place late
in the evening of June 5, 1907, and about ten o'clock in the
morning of the next day, four of the cars left on the sidetrack were destroyed by fire.
The A. and C. Junction is described as being in an open
desert, without a station agent or inhabitants, and without water or fire apparatus. The cars were left without a
watchman in charge. The reason given by the conductor
for leaving them at this point was that there was no room
for the cars at Wickenburg. There was no explanation of
the cause of the fire, the only suggestion, as to this, being
that before the fire occurred one train passed by, between
four and five o'clock in the morning.
At the close of the evidence the Railway Company
requested the trial court to direct a verdict in its favor.
This request was refused and exception taken; and the
sustaining of this ruling is assigned as error. It is contended by the Railway Company that, under its contract
with the Construction Company, it was exempt from all
liability and, further, that even assuming it to be liable
for negligence there was a total failure of proof in that
respect.
The principal question relates to the scope and validity
of the provision of the contract between the parties as to
the liability of the Railway Company.
The facts are these: In November, 1904, the Railway
Company issued a call for proposals for the grading of the
roadbed, clearing right-of-way, making necessary canals,
etc., of the Arizona & California Railroad, for a distance
of about forty miles. The Construction Company made a

SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bid, which was accepted, and a contract was executed
accordingly on December 12, 1904.
This contract, after providing for the performance of
the described work of grading, etc., contained the following
terms with respect to the transportation of supplies, camp
and grading outfit and employds of the Construction Company, which were the same as those set forth in the call
for bids:
"14. Water will be delivered in cars at the end of the
track at the rate of One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50)
per 1000 gallons and supplies will be hauled to End of
Track, both in the usual manner of construction trains,
subject to delays, etc., incident thereto. All risk of loss
or damage to be borne by the Contractor.
"15. The Company will furnish a rate of one cent per
ton mile from all points on the S. F. P. & P. Road and
leased roads for the Contractor, on Camp and Grading
Outfit and supplies, corral supplies, etc., except explosives
and commissary goods, and return to original shipping
points at same rates, on completion of the work. All
movements of goods at less than tariff rates to be at
consignee's risk of loss and damage.
"16. The Company will also furnish the Contractor's
employds . . . a rate of one cent per passenger
mile, . . . and return those who have worked until
the completion of contract at the same rate. Passengers
carried at less than tariff rates will be required to assume
all risk of accidents to person and baggage. The plan of
movement of these employ6s and freight is to be according to rules of the General Freight and Passenger
Agent.
"17. The Company will also secure for the Contractor
similar rates over the Santa Fe Company's Coast Lines,
on Camp and Grading Outfit, in carload lots, both to and
from the work, and for workmen going to the work in
lots of five (5) or more."

.184

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

After the work covered by this contract had been
finished it was agreed that the Construction Company
should continue the grading of the road further to the
west, upon the same terms and conditions as those stated
in the former contract, save that the prices for the work
were increased, and it was provided that water should be
delivered at the end of track free of cost, except for carhire, and that men and supplies should be hauled free on
the line of the Arizona & California Railroad, between
the A. and C. Junction and the end of track. This supplementary agreement, which was evidenced by letters
exchanged in November, 1905, also contained an express
provision "that the company shall assume no obligation
or risk in case of accident or damage to menand supplies."
It was under these conditions that in June, 1907, the
Railroad Company,-the grading having been done-took
up the men, outfit and supplies of the Construction Company at the end of the track for the purpose of transporting
them to Phoenix.
It is alleged in the complaint that the transportation
of the property was to be at the contract rate of one cent
per ton mile and it is undisputed that this was less than
the tariff rates of the Railway Company accorded to the
general public.
It is the established doctrine of this court that common
carriers cannot secure immunity from liability for their
negligence by any sort of stipulation. Railroad Company
v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix
Insurance Co., 129 U. S. 397; Baltimore & Ohio &c. Railway Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, 507; Knott v. Botany Mills,
179 U. S. 69, 71; The Kensington, 18a U. S. 263, 268. The
rule rests on broad grounds of public policy justifying the
restriction of liberty of contract because of the public ends
to be achieved. The great object of the law governing
common carriers was to secure the utmost care in the
rendering of a service of the highest importance to the

SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

community. A carrier who stipulates not to be bound
to the exercise of care and diligence "seeks to put off the
essential duties of his employment." It is recognized that
the carrier and the individual customer are not on an
equal footing. "The latter cannot afford to higgle or
He
. .
stand out and seek redress in the courts.
prefers, rather, to accept any bill of lading, or sign any
paper the carrier presents; often, indeed, without knowing what the one or the other contains. In most cases, he
has no alternative but to do this, or abandon his business." Railroad Company v. Lockwood, supra, pp. 378,
379. For these reasons, the common carrier in the prosecution of its business as such is not permitted to drop its
character and transmute itself by contract into a mere
bailee with right to stipulate against the consequences
of its negligence.
Manifestly, this rule has no application when a railroad
company is acting outside the performance of its duty
as a common carrier. In such case, it is dealing with
matters involving ordinary considerations of contractual
relation; those who choose to enter into engagements with
it are not at a disadvantage; and its stipulations even
against liability for its own neglect are not repugnant to
the requirements of its public service. The rule extends
no further than the reason for it. It is apparent that
there may be special engagements which axe not embraced within its duty as a common carrier although their
performance may incidentally involve the actual transportation of persons and things, whose carriage in other
circumstances might be within its public obligation. Baltimore & Ohio &c. Railway Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498,
and cases cited; Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Adams,
192 U. S. 440; Long v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., C. C. A.,
2d Circuit, 130.Fed. Rep. 870.
Thus in Baltimore & Ohio. &c. Railway Co. v. Voigt,
supra, it was held that an express messenger in charge of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

express matter in pursuance of the contract between the
express company and the railroad company was not a
passenger of the latter within the meaning of the rule of
Railroad Company v. Lockwood, supra; that he was not
constrained to enter into the contract whereby the railroad company was exonerated from liability to him for
its negligence; and that such a contract did not contravene
public policy. His position was one "created by an agreement between the express company and the railroad company, adjusting the terms of a joint business-the transportation and delivery of express matter. His duties of
personal control and custody of the goods and packages,
if not performed by an express messenger, would have to
be performed by one in the immediate service of the railroad company." It was clear that although the messenger was actually carried on the train, and although the
railroad company received compensation in connection
with its contract for the express business, his relation to
the railroad company was "widely different from that of
ordinary passengers," and there was no justification for
extending the doctrine restricting the freedom of contract
to a case which lay entirely outside the reason which supported it.
In constructing, improving or repairing its road, and
in building its extensions and branches, the railroad company is providing facilities for its service as a common
carrier, but of course is not acting as such. It may do
the work itself, if it chooses, or it may make it the subject
of contract with another. In the latter case it simply
employs an appropriate agency. The haulage by the railroad company of the men, appliances and supplies, required by the contractor for the purpose of the construction or improvement, to or from the point on its line
where the work is to be done, is merely incidental to the
work itself. The cost of such haulage is obviously an item
of expense which must be taken into account in fixing the

SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

terms of the construction contract, and in providing for it
over its own line the railroad company may adjust the
matter with the contractor as it sees fit. If the railroad
company did the work directly it would have to take its
employ~s and the necessary outfit to the place of work,
and it may undertake to do the like for the contractor,
either free of charge or at reduced rates, as they may agree.
Usually, necessity or proper convenience requires an
undertaking by the railroad company, as to such transportation, which it would be under no obligation to assume in any event as a common carrier. Men and supplies must be put down and taken up at points on the
line where there is no regular station and where the railroad company would not be bound to accept or to discharge freight or passengers. In a case, like the present
one, of the grading of an extension or branch line, it is
convenient that the track, laid as the roadbed is prepared
for it, should be utilized for the hauling of men and materials to a point as near as possible to the work, although
such track is not open to the public and the railroad company as a common carrier has assumed, as yet, no obligation for general transportation over it. This was obviously contemplated in the contract in question; and a
construction of the contract, so as to make it apply only
to the hauling of camp and grading outfit to stations to
which the company was regularly doing business, is wholly
inadmissible. The original proposals stated that the Railway Company hoped" to keep the end of the track within
four miles of the nearest grading camp." The contract
itself provided that water and supplies should "be hauled
to end of track, both in the usual manner of construction trains." And, after providing for the reduced rates
for outfit, supplies and employ6s from all points on the
line of the Railway Company and for the return of the
same to original shipping points at the same rates on
completion of the work, the intent is shown by the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

vision immediately following that the Railway Company
should secure similar rates for the contractor over its coast
lines "on camp and grading outfit, in carload lots, both
to and from the work." In the supplementary contract it
was provided that men and supplies should be hauled "to
the end of track free," with the provision that this should
only apply on the line' of the Arizona and California Railroad, -that is, "between A. and C. Junction and the end
of the track." When the work was done, the, men and
outfit were actually taken up by the Railway Company
some twelve miles beyond the last regular Istation on the
branch line. The parties plainly intended that the camp
and grading outfit should be transported for the benefit
of the contractor as near to the work as it reasonably
could be, and without regard to regular stations, and
that it should be removed in the same way when the
grading was completed.
It is clear that in dealing with transportation of this
character over its own road, in connection with construction or improvement, a railroad company is not acting in
the performance of its duty as a common carrier, and the
arrangement for free or reduced-rate carriage for the necessary materials and men used in the work, 'when it is a.
part of the contract, entered into in good faith and not as
a subterfuge, is not obnoxious to the provisions of law
prohibiting departures from the published tariffs, for the
reason that such an agreement lies outside the policy of
these provisions. See Matter of Railroad-Telegraph Contracts, 12 I. C. C. Rep. 10, 11.
The parties then were free to make their own bargain
as to this transportation and the liability which should
attach to it. There is no rule of public policy which denies
effect to their expressed intention, but on the contrary as
the matter lies within the range of permissible agreement,
the highest public policy is found in the enforcement of
the contract which was actually made. Undoubtedly, it

SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is not to be lightly concluded that the Railway Company
has been relieved from liability for its neglect, but on the
other hand, if this was the agreement as fairly interpreted,
it is not to be arbitrarily overridden. The parties were on
an equal footing. The risk of loss or damage to the grading outfit or supplies from any cause while being transported over the line of the Railway Company, could be
assumed by one party or the other as they saw fit. This
risk was an item which naturally would enter into the calculations of the parties with respect to the rate to be
charged by the Railway Company. We are not at liberty
to revise the contract, and the question simply is whether
the stipulation against liability in view of the reduced
rates covered all losses, those which might be due to the
carrier's neglect as well as others.
We entertain no doubt as to what the parties meant.
The limitations upon the liability of the Railway Company
were first fully stated in the call for proposals and when the
bid was accepted in accordance with the terms of the call,
the same limitations were inserted in the contract. Thus,.
it was provided with respect to the supplies to be hauled to
the end of track, "All risk of loss or damage to be borne by
the Contractor;" again, as to the camp and grading outfits and supplies; "All movements of goods at less than
tariff rates to be at consignee's risk of loss and damage;"
and with regard to the employ~s; "Passengers carried at
less than tariff rates will be required to assume all risk of
accident to person and baggage." Further, in the supplemental agreement, it was stipulated: "the Company shall
assume no obligation or risk in case of accident or damage
to men and supplies." When we consider the circumstances of the parties and the objects of the contract, we
cannot escape the conclusion that these reiterated statements evidence the intention to deal comprehensively with
all the risks incident to the transportation, not excluding
the obvious risk of loss by reason of some neglect in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

operation of the road. The contract was between two
corporations and dealt with the'familiar transactions of
their everyday concerns. The stipulations are in the terse
language of business men. The supplemental contract is
contained in an informal letter. And, when "all risk of
loss or damage" is spoken of, and it is provided that the
Railway Company shall assume "no obligation or risk in
case of accident or damage," it is evident that they are
looking at the matter from a business standpoint and are
bargaining for a reduced rate to be charged by the Railway
Company on the one hand and an assumption of the entire
risk of the transportation by the Construction Company
on the other. It is true that general words of exemption
have often been found insufficient to cover injuries due to
negligence, and a rule imposing such a limitation upon
their effect has manifest propriety in those jurisdictions
where common carriers, acting as such, are allowed to
stipulate against the consequences of their neglect if this
is done. in explicit terms. But here, to repeat, we are
entirely out of the domain governed by the rule of public
policy affecting common carriers, and the agreement must
be taken according to its actual intent.
It will be observed that the limitation from liability was
to apply to the workmen as well as to the goods. We do
not need to inquire as to the effect of such an exemption
in the case of a workman who had not assented to it. But
the provisions as to the workmen throw light upon the
intent of the parties with respect to the property. In the
supplemental contract both men and supplies were grouped
in one stipulation for immunity. The Railway Company,
however, would not have been liable in any event for injuries to the workmen save in case of negligence; and in
bargaining for a limitation of liability as to the workmen,
they evidently had negligence in view. The word "accident" in this connection was manifestly used in its
popular sense and not as limited to occurrences beyond the

SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carrier's control. Further, it will be remembered, that
in the supplemental contract, free haulage was given over
the branch line and the stipulation, therein repeated, was
certainly to protect the carrier from a liability, in the case
of injury to the workmen, which otherwise would attach;
that is, a liability for negligence.
This point was recognized by the court in Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, which involved the obligation of a common carrier. The contract for exemption
from liability was general, but it related to a drover accompanying his cattle (who, notwithstanding that he
had a pass, was held to be a passenger for hire) as well as
to the cattle themselves; and with respect to the drover,
it was assumed in the course of the opinion that the stipulation included immunity from liability for the company's
negligence. And thus the court was brought to the decision of the question whether a common carrier could be
permitted to make a stipulation of that sort. The court
said: "It is strenuously insisted, however, that as negligence is the only ground of liability in the carriage of
passengers, and as the contract is absolute in its terms, it
must be construed to embrace negligence as well as accident, the former in reference to passengers, and both in
reference to the cattle carried in the train. As this argument seems plausible, and the exclusion of a liability embraced in the terms of exemption on the ground that it
could not have been in the mind of the parties is somewhat
arbitrary, we will proceed to examine the question before
propounded, namely, whether common carriers may excuse
themselves from liability for negligence" (id., pp. 362,
363).
The question as to the fair interpretation of language
such as is used in the present case, where the railroad company is acting outside the performance of its duty as a
common carrier was considered by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the Second Circuit in Long v. Lehigh Valley

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

R. Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 870. That was the case of an express
messenger who was injured while employed as such in an
express car on one of the defendant's trains, owing to the
negligence of the defendant's employ~s. His contract
with the express company contained a provision that he
assumed "all risk of accidents and injuries" to himself
"arising out of such employment," and that he released
the express company and the transportation lines on which
he was to render service from any claims "arising out of
any such accidents or injuries" that might happeA to him
while so employed. Circuit Judge Wallace in delivering
the opinion of the court, after referring to Baltimore &
Ohio &c. Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, said: "It is said
that the contract in that case in terms included among the
risks assumed by the express messenger accidents and
injuries occasioned by negligence, while the contract here
does not; and it is urged that, in the absence of such a
stipulation, the contract should be construed not to extend
to that class of accidents or injuries. This contention
would doubtless be sound if the parties contracting had
not been treating on terms of equality, as is the case between a common carrier and a ,shipper of goods or a passenger. But when this is not the case, and no rule of public policy forbids a contract by which one of the parties is
exonerated from any risk arising from negligence, there is
no reason why the ordinary rules of construction should
not obtain, and the contract be given effect according to
the intention of the parties. The observations of this court
in McCormick v. Shippy, 124 Fed. Rep. 48, 59 C. C. A. 568,
are appropriate: 'There is no question of public policy
involved in this contract, as in the case of a common
carrier. It is well settled that the parties in such a case
have the right to provide by apt language against liability
for negligence. . . . The clause must be interpreted
to include loss through negligence, because for loss not
arising from negligence he would not be liable.'

SANTA FE RAILWAY v. GRANT BROS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"So, in this case, the defendant, being merely a private
carrier in respect to the plaintiff, owed him merely the
duty of ordinary care, and could only have been liable to
him for injuries arising from negligence, and the release
made in advance must have contemplated accidents and
injuries of that character. In Bates v. RailroadCompany,
147 Massachusetts, 255, S. C., 17 N. E. Rep. 633, the
agreement between the express messenger and the express
company was that the former 'will assume all risk, and
[of] accidents and injuries resulting therefrom, and will
hold said company free and discharged from all claims
and demands in any way growing out of any injuries
received by him while so riding.' In Hosmer v. Railroad
Company, 156 Massachusetts, 506, 31 N. E. Rep. 652, the
plaintiff was an expressman, and had agreed that, in consideration of the company's allowing him to ride in baggage
cars on its trains, he would 'assume all risk of accidents
and injuries resulting therefrom.' In both cases the language of the contract, although not expressly including
injuries or accidents by negligence, was construed to relieve the railroad company from liability for injuries by
negligence. In Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Wallace, 66 Fed. Rep.
506, S. C., 14 C. C. A. 257, S. C., 24 U. S. App. 589, S. C.,
30 L. R. A. 161, the language of the contract was as general as it is in the present case, and the railroad company
was exonerated from liability" (130 Fed. Rep. p. 873).
We see no ground whatever for the conclusion that it
was not the intention of the parties to give the Railroad
Company immunity from negligence in the case of the
workmen, and in view of the provisions and purpose of
the contract it cannot be held that they had a different
intention with respect to the camp and grading outfit
and supplies. When they agreed that all movement of
this property at less than tariff rates should be at the risk
of the Construction Company and later in the supplemental contract that the Railway Company should
VOL. ccxxvi i-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

assume "no obligation or risk" in the case of damage to
supplies, we think it clear that they meant to cover the
entire transportation risk, -with respect to this property
and that losses such as occurred in this case, whether or
not attributable to the negligence of the Railway Company
were within the stipulated immunity.
It is therefore unnecessary to discuss the assignments
of error which are based upon the ruling of the court with
respect to the submission to the jury of the question of
negligence. Our conclusion is that, upon the facts disclosed at the trial, the Railway Company was entitled
to a direction of a verdict in its favor, and the judgment
sustaining the recovery by the Construction Company
must therefore be reversed.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the Su.
preme Court of the State of Arizona as the succesor
of the TerritorialSupreme Court,for such further proceedings as may not be iiconsistent with this opinion.

GEORGE A. FULLER COMPANY v. McCLOSKEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF. APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 176.

Submitted March 7, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

The averments in the declaration when taken together, held sufficient
to allow proof of negligence on the pait of one defendant, although
one specific charge related exclusively to the other defendant as to

whom the case was dismissed.
A modification of the requested charge so as to make it conform to the
facts of the case, held in this case not to have been error, the jury

A

having been properly instructed by the court on the subject of contributory negligence.
variance betweeu proof and declaration should be called to the

