OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

law. There is no decision by this court against the admissibility of such' a confession; the English cases since
the separation of the two countries do not bind us; the
exception to the hearsay rule in the case of declarations
against interest is well known; no other statement is so
much against interest as a confession of murder, it is far
more calculated to convince than dying declarations,
which would be let in to hang a man, Mattox v. United
States, 146 U. S. 140; and when we surround the accused
with so many safeguards, some of which seem to me excessive, I think we ought to give him the benefit of a fact
that, if proved, commonly would have such weight. The
history of the law and the arguments against the English
doctrine are so well and fully stated by Mr. Wigmore
that there is no need ,to set them forth at greater length.
2 Wigmore, Evidence, §§ 1476, 1477.

McLAUGHLIN BROTHERS v. HALLOWELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 149.

Argued January 27, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

An order of the United States Circuit Court remanding the cause to
the state court is not reviewable here, Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556, nor can this object be accomplished by indirection.
Where the state court, in denying a second petition for removal, simply
bows to the decision of the Federal court when it remanded the
record after the first attempt to remove, it does not deny any Federal
right of the petitioner within the meaning of § 709, Rev. Stat.
Where the second petition to remove presents no different question
from that presented by the first, it is proper for the state court to
follow the decision of the Federal court remanding the record and

deny the petition.

McLAUGHLIN v. HALLOWELL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In this case it does not appear that any different questions were presented on the second petition than on the first, and if any Federal
right of the petitioner to remove was denied, it was denied by the
Federal and not by the state court.
Whether individual members of a copartnership should be joined as
defendants or substituted for the copartnership in a suit brought
against the partnership under a state law permitting copartnerships
to be sued as entities is a question of local law only cognizable in this
court so far as it may affect the right to remove.
This court, having no jurisdiction to review the remanding order of the
Circuit Court which the state court followed in denying a second
petition to remove, refrains from expressing any opinion upon the
coirectness of that order.
Writ of error to review 121 N. W. Rep. 1,039, dismissed.
THE facts, which involvte the jurisdiction of this court
under § 709, Rev. Stat., to review a decree of the state
court denying a second petition for removal of the cause
from the Federal court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edgar A. Morling, with whom Mr. Charles A. Clark

and Mr. William H. Morling were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.

Mr. Denis M. Kelleher, with whom Mr. William S.
Kenyon and Mr. Maurice O'Connor were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error is sued out under § 709, Rev. Stat.,
and brings up a judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa
affirming a judgment of the District Court of one of the
counties of that State in an action brought by the defend-

ants in error against "McLaughlin Brothers, a Copartnership," named, among the plaintiffs in error. The individual' plaintiffs in error, John R. McLaughlin and
James B. McLaughlin, who allege themselves to be "sole

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

members of the copartnership," were not named as defendants at the inception of the action. Their relation
to it will appear from what follows.
It is claimed by the plaintiffs in error that they were
entitled to remove the cause to the appropriate Federal
Circuit Court on the ground of diversity of citizenship
(there being no question that the matter in dispute, exclusive of interest and costs, exceeded $2,000), and that
the decision of the state court deprived them of the-right
of removal. The cause was once removed to the Federal
court and by that court remanded. A subsequent petition
for removal was refused by the County District CQurt.
It is the decision of the Supreme Court in affirming the
judgment of the District Court, notwithstanding. such
refusal, that is now assigned for error. The circumstances
of the case are peculiar and require a somewhat particular
recital.
The action was commenced by petition filed by defendants in. error in the District Court naming as defendant
"McLaughlin Brothers, a copartnership," and claiming
three thousand dollars damages for breaches of warranty
in the sale of certain horses. The petition alleged (inter
alia) that defendant was a non-resident of the State of
Iowa' and that it was a partnership, with headquarters
at Columbus, Ohio, and with a branch at Emmetsburg,
Iowa. The transactions out of which the alleged causes of
action arose were stated to have occurred in Iowa, and
the alleged contracts to have been made in that State.
At the same time the plaintiffs filed in the District Court
an attachment bond, and caused a writ of attachment
to be issued to the Sheriff of the county, who, according
to the record, "thereunder garnisheed the United States
Express Company, by serving on such garnishee notice
of garnishment, and made return of such service."
Thereafter the defendants filed a petition and bond for
removal of the cause into the United States Circuit Court

McLAUGHLIN v. HALLOWELL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the Northern District of Iowa, upon the ground of
diversity of citizenship. The opening Words of the petition were- "Come now the above named defendants, and
respectfully show to the court that they are a copartnership composed of John R. McLaughlin and James B.
McLaughlin, sole partners in and members of said copartnership, doing business at the City of Columbus, in the
State of Ohio. That at the time of the commencement
of this action, and ever since and now, the said copartnership, McLaughlin Brothers, and the said James B. McLaughlin, and John R. McLaughlin, and each of them,
were and are residents, citizens, and inhabitants of the
State of Ohio; . . . that the plaintiffs hereinabove
named, and each of them, at the time of the commencement of this action, were and still are residents, citizens
and inhabitants of the State of Iowa, and not of the State
of Ohio." The remaining averments were in the usual
form. The cause was removed accordingly.
After some time the Federal court made an order remanding it, the substance of which is as follows, viz.:
"The Court, being advised in the premises, 'finds that
this court has not jurisdiction of said cause, and sustains
said motion (for a remand). It is ordered and adjudged
that said cause be and the same is hereby remanded to
the District Court of Iowa in and for Pocahontas County,
from whence the same came, this court not having jurisdiction by reason of lack of evidence in the transcript filed
herein, that said defendant had been served with notice
of said proceedings."
The record shows that after a duly authenticated copy
of this order had been filed in the District Court, "John R.
McLaughlin and James B. McLaughlin appeared in said
cause "-but without previous leave of the 'court-and
filed a written, motion setting up-"That they are the
sole members and partners in the above-mentioned firm
of McLaughlin Brothers, and the sole parties defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

in interest herein, and that they are the parties and the
sole parties that are sued under the firm name of McLaughlin Brothers;" and then, after averring diversity of
citizenship, and that the matter in dispute exceeded two
thousand dollars, the motion proceeded as follows: "That
these parties are entitled to have this action tried in the
Circuit Court of the United States in and for the Northern
District of Iowa; that the only effect of maintaining this
action against these defenoiants in their partnership name
is to prevent a removal of the action to the said United
States Circuit Court; wherefore the said John R. Mc-'
Laughlin- and James B. McLaughlin move the court,
(1), for an order herein substituting these defendants in
their individual names as sole parties defendant herein,
and permitting them to appear herein and answer and
defend in their said individual names; (2) if the foregoing is overruled, then that an order be made joining the

said John R. McLaughlin and James B. McLaughlin as
parties .defendant herein, in their individual names, and

permitting them to appear, answer and defend in their
individual names."
Upon the same date, "The said defendants, McLaughlin
Brothers, appeared in said cause and filed therein their
application for substitution of parties," etc., adopting the
statements and allegations contained in the motion of the
individuals as above quoted, and thereupon moving the
court that the said individuals be either substituted in
place of the defendants, McLaughlin Brothers, as sole
defendants, or else joined as co-defendants with the firm.
And at the same time the partnership and the individuals filed a petition, in the name of the individuals, for
the removal of the cause to the United States Circuit
Court, upon the same ground of diversity of citizenship

that was set up in the first petition for removal. A proper
bond was also filed.
To this second petition for removal and to the accom-

McLAUGHLIN v. HALLOWELL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

panying motions for substitution, etc., the plaintiffs in the
action filed written objections, based in part upon the
ground that the individual partners were not parties to
the action and not entitled to make a motion for substitution or to be joined as parties; that the plaintiffs
were entitled to bring their action against the copartnership without joining as defendants the members of the
firm, and they having exercised this option the members
of the firm were not, as against the plaintiffs' objection,
entitled to be either substituted or joined as parties; and
that the individual partners were not entitled to have the
action tried in the Circuit Court of the United States.
The District Court sustained these objections, and denied
the several motions and the petition for removal.
Thenceforward the action appears to have proceeded
in the District Court as against the partnership alone.
"A Plea to Jurisdiction and Answer" was filed, which
repeated the averments upon which the petitions for removal had been based, set up the filing of those petitions
and bonds and the several applications for substitution
or joinder of the individuals as parties defendant, and
averred that by reason of the premises the state court had
no jurisdiction to proceed further. Answer was at the
same time made" to the merits, and the action was thus
brought to an issue.
There appears to have been a trial, resulting in a directed
verdict for the defendants and a judgment thereon, from
which the plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of
Iowa, where there was a reversal and award of a new trial.
The transcript of the record as presented here is silent
on the subject, but we are referred to the report of the
case on the first appeal, 136 Iowa, 279.
Upon the second trial the defendants offered evidence
to support the averments of the plea to the jurisdiction,
which was overruled as irrelevant. A motion to direct a
verdict in favor of defendant on the ground that because

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

of the proceedings for removal the District Court had no
jurisdiction was likewise overruled. There was a verdict
and consequent judgment for the plaintiffs for $3,755.02,
which upon appeal was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Iowa (121 N. W. Rep. 1039), and the present writ of error
was sued out.
Except for the opinion delivered by the Supreme Court
upon the second appeal there is nothing in the record to
show what questions were raised in that court. After
referring to the first appeal, as reported in 136 Iowa, 279,
which admittedly raised no question of Federal right, the
opinion proceeds as follows: "But one new question is
here presented, and that arises on the following facts:
This action was commenced in December, 1903. It was
transferred to the United States Circuit Court upon the
defendants' application, where it was remanded to the
state court, because of want of jurisdiction of the Federal
court. In January, 1905, the defendants filed an application in.the District Court for the substitution of John R.
and James B. McLaughlin as defendants. This was
denied, and since such denial both trials have taken place
and more than three years elapsed, and the defendants
now appeal from the order denying substitution. There
was no right of substitution. The statute, Code, § 3468,
expressly provides that a partnership may sue or be sued
as a distinct legal entity. (Citing cases.) Under this
statute the plaintiffs had the absolute right to sue the
partnership alone or to join in such suit the individual
members of the partnership. They chose the former
course, and they cannot be deprived of such right upon
the application of the partnership, or of the individual
members thereof. (Citing cases.) The plaintiffs clearly
had the right to sue McLaughlin Brothers, the partnership,
alone. This they could not do in the Federal Court, and
the case was therefore not removable. Ex parte Wisner,
203 U. S. 4492Y

McLAUGHLIN v. IIALLOWELL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is contended here that the state court deprived the
plaintiffs in error of a Federal right by giving such effect
to the local Code as to cut off the right of removal.
The statute under which plaintiffs brought their action
is as follows:
"Actions may be brought by or against a partnership
as such, or against all or either of the individual members
thereof, or against it and all or any of the members thereof;
and a judgment against the firm as such may be enforced
against the partnership property, or that of such members
as have appeared or been served with notice. A new
action may be brought against the members not made
parties, on the original cause of action." Code, 1897,
§ 3468.
The gist of the argument for the plaintiffs in error is
that this section, whatever its effect upon the practice of
the state courts, cannot interfere with a right of removal
to the Federal courts given by the act of Congress; that
the real parties in interest as defendants in the state court
were the individual partners, and since they were citizens
of Ohio, while the plaintiffs in the state court were citizens
of Iowa, the defendants had the right of removal although
sued in the partnership name; that the order of the Federal Circuit Court remanding the cause after the first removal was limited in its effect because based upon lack
of evidence in the transcript that plaintiffs in error had
been served with notice of the proceedings; and that the
defendants, on thereafter appearing and filing motions
for substitution, etc., were entitled to renew the application for removal, and, since they did this, the state court
ought to have admitted the individual partners as defendants in order to enable them to assert the right of removal
that is alleged to result from their interest in the suit and
the diversity of citizenship between them as individuals
and the plaintiffs; and that in denying the applications
of the plaintiffs in error made in this behalf after the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S

manding order was filed the state court deprived them of a
Federal right.
We are confronted, at the outset, with the question of
the jurisdiction of this court to review the action of the
state court in the premises.
That the order of the United States Circuit Court remanding the cause to the state court is not reviewable
here is settled by Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556. In that case this court declared (at
p. 582):--"If the Circuit Court remands a cause and the
state court thereupon proceeds to final judgment, the
action of the Circuit Court is not reviewable on writ of
error to such judgment. A state court cannot be held
to have decided against a Federal right when it is the
Circuit Court, and not the state court, which has denied
its possession. The Supreme Court of Nebraska rightly
recognized the courts of the United States to be the exclusive judges of their own jurisdiction and declined to
review .the order of the Circuit Court. As under the statute a remanding order of the Circuit Court is not reviewable by this court on appeal or writ of error from or to
that court, so it would seem to follow that it cannot be
reviewed on writ of error to a state court, the prohibition
being that 'no appeal or writ of error from the decision of
the Circuit Court remanding such cause shall be allowed.'
And it is entirely clear that a writ of error cannot be maintained under § 709 in respect of such an order where the
state court has rendered no decision against a Federal
right but simply 'accepted the conclusion of the Circuit
Court."
It is fundamental that plaintiffs in error, being debarred
from bringing the remanding order under the review
of this court, cannot accomplish the same object by
indirection. And if the state court in denying the second
petition for removal did no more than bow to the decision
and order of the Federal court when it remanded the

McLAUGHLIN v. HALLOWELL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

record, it did not deny any Federal right of the plaintiffs
in error within the meaning of § 709; Rev. Stat. That
it was proper to-deny the second petition if it presented
no different question from that presented by the first
is plain. St. Paul & Chicago R. R. Co. v. McLean, 108
U. S. 212, 217; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. McCabe, 213
U. S. 207, 217.
This brins us to the question whether between the
filing of the first petition for removal and the second there
had been any change in the situation, presenting the right
of removal upon a better ground than that which was
overruled by the United States Circuit Court when
it remanded the cause. As already mentioned, the insistence is that the remanding order was based upon the
fact that the defendants had not been served with notice
of the proceedings; and it is insisted that this difficulty
was obviated by the subsequent appearances and motions.
In order to pass upon this contention we should first
examine the state practice.
Under the Iowa Code, 1897,, § 3514, action in a court
of record is commenced by serving the defendant with a
notice, informing him of the name of the plaintiff, that a
petition is, or by a date named therein will be, filed in the
office of the clerk of the court wherein action is brought,
naming it, and stating in general terms the cause of action,
and that unless the defendant appears and defends before
a stated time his default will be entered and judgment
or decree rendered against him. The sections following
provide the method of making personal and substituted
service and, in case of absent defendants, service by
publication in certain cases. By § 3541 it is prescribed
that the mode of appearance may be by delivering to the
plaintiff or the clerk of the court a written memorandum
of appearance signed by the defendant or his attorney;
or by entering an appearance in the appearance docket
or judge's calendar, or by announcing to the court an

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

appearance, which shall be entered of record; or "by
an appearance, even though specially made, by himself
or his attorney, for any purpose connected with the cause,
or for any purpose connected with the service or insufficiency of the notice; and an appearance, special or other,
to object to the substance or service of the notice, shall
render any further notice unnecessary, but may entitle
the defendant to a continuance," etc.
By §§ 3876 to 3878 it is provided that the plaintiff
in a civil action may cause the property of the defendant
not exempt from execution to be attached at the commencement or during the progress of the proceedings,
but if this be done subsequent to the commencement
of the action a separate petition must be filed, and "in
all cases the proceedings relative to the attachment are
to be deemed independent of the ordinary proceedings
and only auxiliary thereto." The grounds upon which
an attachment may be procured are, that the defendant
is a foreign corporation, or acting as such, or is a nonresident of the State, or is about to remove his property
,out of the: State, or has disposed or is about to dispose of
his property with intent to defraud his creditors, etc.,
etc. By § 3897, property of defendant in the possession
of another, or debts due to defendant, may be attached
by garnishment. By § 3924, if judgment is rendered for
the plaintiff in any case in which an attachment has been
issued, the court is to apply in satisfaction thereof any
money seized by or paid to the sheriff under the attachment, and the proceeds of sales of other attached property.
Subsequent sections provide for the mode of giving notice to a garnishee, and for obtaining a judgment against
him. By § 3947 such judgment shall not be entered until
the principal defendant shall have had ten days' notice
of the garnishment proceedings. Section 3948 permits
the defendant in the main action to set up by a suitable
pleading filed in the garnishment proceedings, facts

McLAUGHLIN v. HALLOWELL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

showing that the debt or the property with which it is
sought to charge the garnishee is exempt from execution
or for any other reason is not liable for plaintiff's claim.
The state courts have held that the effect of § 3541
is to subject a defendant who comes into court for any
purpose connected with the cause (even under a "special"
appearance) to the general jurisdiction of the court.
Des Moines Branch &c. v. Van, 12 Iowa, 523; Robertson
v. kldora R. Co., 27 Iowa, 245, 248; McFarlandv. Lowry,
40 Iowa, 467; Johnson v. Tostevin, 60 Iowa, 46; Lesure
Lumber Co. v. Mutual Fire Ins. Co., 101 Iowa, 514, 51,9;
Locke v. Chicago Chronicle Co., 107 Iowa, 390, 395; Rummelhart v. Boone, 126 N. W. Rep. 338, 339. As to whether
this is "due process of law" in the state courts within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, see York v. Texas,
137 U. S. 15; Kauffman v. Wooters, 138 U. S. 285. As to
the applicability of the rule of practice to the Federal
courts under the Conformity Act (Rev. Stats., § 914),
see Southern Paific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 208;
Mexican Central Ry. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194, 203.
With respect to § 3468, permitting actions to be brought
against a partnership as such, or against all or either of the
individual members thereof, or against the partnership and
all or any of the members thereof, and declaring that a
judgment against the firm as such may be enforced against
the partnership property, or that of such members as have
appeared or been served with notice, the courts of Iowa
ha-ve construed this as dealing with the partnership as
an, entity distinct from the individual members, and as
conferring upon the plaintiffs the option of suing the partnership alone instead of joining in the suit the individual
members of the firm. In so holding in the present case
the Supreme Court of Iowa did but follow previous decisions of the same court. Brumwell v. Stebbins, 83
Iowa, 425, 428; Ruthven v. Beckwith, 84 Iowa, 715, 717;
Baxter v. Rollins, 110 Iowa, 310.
VOL.

ccxxvIII-19,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

The United States Circuit Court, in remanding the
cause, 'followed its previous decision in Ralya Market Co.
v. Armour, 102 Fed. Rep. 530. This likewise was an action
brought under § 3468 of the Code of Iowa against a copartnership, without service upon the individual partners.
It was remanded on the ground that-in that form the cause
was not removable for the reason that it was not an
action of which the Federal court could have taken jurisdiction originally if brought in the first instance in that
court; and this because citizenship within the meaning
of the Federal Constitution could not be predicated of a
partnership, and so there could be no diversity of citizenship. Two decisions of this c6urt were relied upon as
authority for this view, Chapman v. Barney, 129 U. S.
677, 682; Great Southern Hotel jCo. v. Jones, 177 U. S.
449, 454. (And see Thomas v. Board of Trustees, 195
U. S. 207, 211.) At the same time the court said (102
Fed. Rep. at p. 534): "If the partners had applied to the
State court to be substituted as defendants in place of the
firm, so that the guit would then have been only against
the individuals, partners doing business under the firm
name, the case might possibly then have been removable,
as it would have been then pending against the individuals
only, and the citizenship of the defendants could then
have been shown to be different from that of the plaintiff."'
And see Bruett & Co. v. Austin Drainage Excavator Co.,
174 Fed. Rep. 668, 672.
It is clear, therefore, that the Federal court, in remanding the present case, did so upon the ground that the
individual members of the firm had not been joined as
parties, and that under the Iowa practice of suing the
partnership as a separate entity there was, within the
meaning of the Removal Act, no diversity. of citizenship.
And i t is equally plain that the clause-" This court not
having jurisdiction by reason of lack of evidence in the
transcript filed herein that said. defendant had been served

McLAUGHLIN v. HALLOWELL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with notice of said proceedings," was inserted in order to
enable the partners to apply to the state court to be
substituted as defendants in the place of the firm, and
then raise the question whether the action in its changed
form was removable, as the opinion just cited intimated
that it might be. Of this opportunity the defendants
availed themselves, as already shown.
The construction we have placed upon the qualifying
clause quoted from the remanding order is evidently
correct from what has already been said. Such was the
construction placed upon it by the subsequent conduct
of the defendants in the state court. And the same
construction is, in effect, conceded in their briefs in this
court, which state that "the order remanding the cause
upon the first removal was upon the specific ground of
lack of evidence in the transcript that plaintiffs in error
had been served with notice of the proceedings." And
again,-" The case having been remanded solely because
of absence of notice, the defendants on appearing and
filing motions for a substitution were entitled to renew
their applications for removal." And still again,-" The
plaintiffs in error sought by motion for substitution, in
accordance with the" suggestion in Ralya Market Co. v.
Armour, 102 Fed. Rep. 530, to eliminate this question,"referring to the question of "the supposed inability of
the Federal court to entertain an action against a partnership, which has been the constant claim of the defendants
in error in the lower courts, and which plaintiffs in error
sought to obviate."
The clause quoted from the remanding order hardly
admits, we think, of the construction that the reason for
denying the jurisdiction was that the copartnership defendant (as distinguished from the individual partners),
had not been served with notice of the suit or of the, attachment proceedings; for such non-service, if it rendered
the proceedings defective, was not waived by, the pres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

•entation of a petition for removal, but on the contrary,
was one of the- very matters that might be adjudicated
upon by the Circuit Court; (Goldey v. Morning News,
156 U. S. 518, 523- Wabash Western Ry. v. Brow, 164
U. S.271, 279; Clark v. Wells, 203 U. S. 164, 171; Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S. 437, 441; Davis
v. C., C. C. &,St. L. Ry., 217 U. S.157, 174). .Andit is
unreasonable to construe the remanding order as meaning
that service of notice upon the copartnership defendant
was necessary to initiate the proceeding so as to make it a
"suit" within the meaning of § 3514 of the State Code,
as distinguished from an "independent" or "auxiliary"
proceeding by attachment within the meaning of § 3877,
(see In re Receivership of Iowa & Minnesota Construction
Co., 6 Fed. Rep. 799, 801; Long v. Long,'73 Fed. Rep.
369, 372; Bank v. Turnbull & Co., 16 Wall. 190, 195),
because it would seem clear that notice to the copartnership, as such, sufficient at least to constitute the proceeding a suit or controversy within the meaning of the state
practice, and so as to bring it within the reach of the
Removal Act, was evidenced by the filing of the first
petition for removal, which, as above stated, was made in
the name of the copartnership, and set forth an appearance by the copartnership for the purpose of asserting
the right 'f removal; and, as we have seen, such an appearance, under § 3541 of the Code, rendered further notice
unnecessary, so far as the requirements of the state practice were concerned.
Having, as already pointed out, no jurisdiction to
review the remanding order, we intend no expression of
opinion upon the correctness of the grounds upon which
it was based, and have dealt thus at length with the construction of its language only because we are concerned
with the effect that was given and ought properly to
have been given to it by the state court.
Whatever construction may be placed upon it,we

McLAUGHLIN v. HALLOWELL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cannot see that the plaintiffs in error by the subsequent
proceedings gave themselves any better right to removal
than that which was asserted by the first petition, was
then acceded to by the state court, and was overruled by
the Circuit Court in remanding the cause.
Reliance is placed upon Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry., 169 U. S. 92, 100, and Fritzlen v. Boatmen's Bank,
212 U. S. 364, 372. But those cases dealt with a change
in the situation in the state court after an order of remand
had been made, and resulting from subsequent dealings or
conduct of the parties in which the opposing party participated. They are not pertinent here, where there was
no change in the situation of the parties on the record, and
merely an unsuccessful application to change it, made by
the parties asserting the right of removal, and opposed,
and successfully opposed, by the other parties.
The mere entry of appearances in the state court, after
the filing of the remanding order, made no substantial
change in the situation, for reasons that have been indicated. And whether the state court, at the instance of
the defendants, should have admitted the individual
members of the partnership as additional parties, or should
have substituted them in place of the firm as sole defendants, is a question of local law and practice, the
decision of which by the state court does not concern us,
saving so far as it may affect the right of the defendant
firm or the individual partners thereof to have the cause
heard and determined in the Federal court. If, therefore,
the action of the state court in refusing to allow the substitution is reviewable upon the present writ of error, it
is only because the application for such substitution was
made as a step towards the assertion of the right of
removal. But, from what has been said, it is sufficiently
clear that the grounds, and the only grounds, set up as the
basis alike for the motion for substitution and the second
petition for removal are the same grounds that were

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

alleged in the first petition for removal; that is to say, that
John R. McLaughlin and James B. McLaughlin were the
sole members and partners of the firm Qf McLaughlin
Brothers, and the sole parties interested as defendants
and that they and their firm were citizens, residents, and
inhabitants of the State of Ohio, while the plaintiffs were
citizens, residents, and inhabitants of the State of Iowa.
In short, if the defendants were entitled to have the
proceedings moulded in aid of their asserted right 'of
removal, they were entitled to have the cause removed
without any modification of the proceedings. The state
court having refused to change the character of the action,
the situation was precisely the same as when the first
petition for removal was filed, and the court properly
held itself bound by the remanding order.
Therefore, if any Federal right of the plaintiffs in error
was denied, it was denied by the United States Circuit
Court, and not by the state court.
In discussing the matter we have assumed, in favor of
the plaintiffs in error, that the question here dealt with was
raised by them in the Supreme Court of Iowa; a matter
that is not entirely clear, since the opinion makes no
reference to the second petition for removal, and aside
from the opinion the record does not disclose what questions were raised.
We' have also assumed that the second petition for
removal was fied in due season, and was not subject to
certain other objections raised against it by the defendants in error. We must not be understood as having
passed upon these questions.
Writ of error dismissed.

