BURLINGHAM v. CROUSE.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

against the defendant's will, but it is compelled by the law
as a necessary incident to the distribution of his property,
not in order to obtain criminal evidence against him. Of
course a man cannot protect his property from being used
to pay his debts by attaching to it a disclosure of crime.
If the documentary confession comes to; a third hand alio
intuitu, as this did, the use of it in court does not compel
the defendant to be a witness against himself.
As to the question of evidence, it is enbugh to say that
there was evidence tending as far as it went to show that
the defendant foresaw what was coming and attempted
to save something from the wreck. There is no certificate
that all the evidence is before us, and we should not be
warranted in declaring As matter of law that the Government did not make out a case. See Seigel v. Cartel, 164
Fed. Rep. 691.
Judgment affirmed.

BURLINGHAM ET AL., TRUSTEES OF McINTYRE
& COMPANY, v. CROUSE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 184.

Argued March 12, 13, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

In construing a general reference to property in the Bankruptcy Act,
weight must be given to a proviso dealing with a special class of
property.
A proviso may sometimes mean additional legislation and not be intended to have the usual and primary office of a proviso which is to
limit generalities and exclude from the scope of the statute that
which otherwise would be within its terms.
Life insurance is property, but it is peculiar property, and Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

228 U. S.

by the proviso in § 70a of the Bankruptcy Act intended that the
bankrupt should have the benefit of all policies except ta the extent
of the actual cash value which could be realized by the trustee for
the creditors.
Under the proviso in § 70a of the Bankruptcy Act, the assignee of a
policy of insurance on the life of the bankrupt has theright to retain
the policy on the same terms that the bankrupt might have retained
it.
Under § 70a life insurance policies which have no cash surrender value,
or on which the company has loaned the full surrender value so that
the policy has no cash surrender value remaining, do not pass to
the trustee as general property but remain the propert.' of the bankrupt who is not limited in dealing with them.
181 Fed. Rep. 479, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 70a of
the Bankruptcy Act and the ownership of policies of
insurance on the life of a bankrupt, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Dorr Raymond Cobb, with whom Mr. Irving L.
Ernst was on the brief, for appellants:
The policies were assets of the bankrupt estate. They
constituted property which the bankrupts could have
transferred. Matter of Slingluff, 105 Fed. Rep. 502. And
this irrespective of their value. Re Brown, 196 Fed. Rep.
758.
The defendant's position, that by an unlawful transfer
he acqtuired a lien upon securities of the bankrupt which
were not property and could not pass to the trustees as
assets, is inconsistent and illogical.
As a matter of fact, however, the policies in question
were valuable although their value at the time of the
failure was contingent and uncertain.
Partridge v.
Andrews, 191 Fed. Rep. 325; Kinzie v. Winston, 56

Illinois, 56.
Bearing- upon the definition of "property"

see also:

'BURLINGHAM v. CROUSE.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Wynehamer v. People, 13 N. Y. 396; Jackson v. Housel, 17
Johns. (N. Y.) 280.
Life insurance policies belonging to the bankrupt and
payable to his estate, pass to the trustee, § 70 of the
Bankruptcy Act. Morris v. Dodd, 110 Georgia, 606, however, holds that no policy passes to the trustee unless it
has a cash surrender value, and then subject to redemption
by the bankrupt. The contrary is held in Re Josephson,
9 A. B. Reports, 345; 121 Fed. Rep. 142.
Prior to the present decision, it had been repeatedly
held in the Second Circuit that the interest of the bankrupt
in all policies of life insurance, payable to his estate,
vested in the trustee subject to redemption by
the bankrupt when they had either technically or a§ a matter of
fact or custom, a cash surrender value upon his paying
such value to the trustee. In Re Coleman, 136 Fed. Rep.
818; Matter of White, 174 Fed. Rep, 333; Matder of Hettling,
175 Fed. Rep. 65; VanKirk v. Slate Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 38;
In Re Mertens, 142 Fed. Rep. 445; aff'd Hiscock v. Mertens,
205 U. S. 202. See also Remington on Bankruptcy § 1131,
p. 644; In Re Wright, 157 Fed. Rep. 554; Bump on Bankruptcy, p. 368. Bearing on this question, see also,: Security Warehouse Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S. 425, 426; Knapp
v. Milwaukee Trust Co., 216 U. S. 545, 557; Stern-Falk &
Co. v. Louisville Trust Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 501; In re Orear,
178 Fed. Rep. 632. And see also In re Charles N. Davidson, 179 Fed. Rep. 750.
There is no decision of this court upon this precise question, so far as its attitude is disclosed by decisions handed
down, but see Hiscock v. Mertens, 205 U. S. 202; Holden v.
Stratton, 198 U. S. 214 as to its views on certain phases of
life insurance as property.
The question of a redemption of the policies by the
bankrupt is not in this case, however, as it was in those
cases.
If defendant's position is correct the policies in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

228 U. S.

absence of the assignment to Crouse would have remained
the property of the McIntyre firm notwithstanding the
bankruptcy, and that~fir m , not the trustee, would have
been entitled to the proceeds of the policies. The defendant Crouse's position is in no respect stronger than would
have been that of the bankrupt had there been no transfer.
Mr. Winfred T. Denison also for the appellants:
Commercially, these insurance policies were transferable property to the full extent of their corpus and not
merely to the extent of their "cash surrender value,"
which was merely what one particular individual (the
Insurance Co.) was bound on demand to pay for them.
The entire corpus of the policies and not merely the
cash surrender value was "property which

. . . the

bankrupt could by any means have transferred" within
the meaning of §70. Re Coleman, 136 Fed. Rep. 818 (C.
C. A. 2d Ct.); Re Brodbine, 93 Fed. Rep. 643; Hyde
v. Woods, 94 U.'S. 523-525; Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S.
529.
Therefore they passed to the trustees unless exempted
by some provision of law.
Even if the laws of New York controlled this class of
exemption, no portion whatever of these policies would be
exempt. Laws, N.Y. 1896, p. 220, c. 272, §22; Re Coleman,
136 Fed. Rep. 818, supra; Re Heffling, 175 Fed. Rep. 65
(C. C. A. 2d Ct.); Re White, 174 Fed. Rep. 333 (C. C.
A. 2d Ct.); Re Wolff, 165 Fed. Rep. 984 (D. C. N. Y.);
Re Boardman, 103 Fed. Rep. 783 (D. C. N. Y.); Re Dieck,
100 Fed. Rep. 770.
But the exe,fption contained in the proviso to § 70 is a
general rule -laid down by Congress itself and applies
to policies which would not be exempt by the state law.
Holden v. Stratton, 198 U. S. 202.
The language of the proviso does not carry the exemption beyond a privilege to bankrupts who have insurance

BURLINGHAM v. GROUSE.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

on their own lives. This is "the feeling of the language,"
(United States v. Johnson, 221 U. S. 488, p. 496) and there
is no affirmative hint of any purpose to give the privilege to
a bankrupt who is not the assured, but a mere stranger
holding the policy exclusively as a commercial asset.
In using the terms "payable to himself, his estate or
personal representatives,", the proviso excludes policies
payable to his assignees iinter vivos and held by them
entirely as commercial property.
The purpose of the proviso does not require any extension of the normal meaning of the language. Holden
v. Stratton, supra; Re Judson, supra; Burlingham v.
Crouse, 181 Fed. Rep. 479 (C.C. A.).
To construe the proviso as granting an exemption to
policies held commercially and not by the beneficiaries,
would be to make a useless encroachment on the general
clause in § 70 and the general purposes of the Bankruptcy
Act. Re Slingluff, 106 Fed. Rep, 154, at pp. 156-158.
It -is significant that in every one of the cases under this
proviso the bankrupt has been the assured: e. g., Holden
v. Stratton, 198 U. S. 202; Re Coleman, 136 Fed. Rep. 818;
Hiscock V. Mertens, 204 U. S. 202; Re Buelow, 98 Fed.
Rep. 86; Re Lange, 91 Fed. Rep. 361; Gould v. N. Y. Life,
132 Fed. Rep. 927; Re Judson, 192 Fed. Rep. 834; and cf.
under act of 1867, Re McKinney, 15 Fed. Rep. 535.
The Bankruptcy Law having established an exemption
of its own which would not have existed at all under the
New York law, it is immaterial whether, and under what
conditions, a New York exemption, if it had existed,
would have been available to an individual bankrupt out
of partnership property. But the New York rule is not
clear, the only case being Stewart v. Brown, 37 N. Y. 350,
decided in 1867, and not in point with this case. Even
Re Camp, 91 Fed. Rep. 745, covering the Georgia District,
has since been doubted and strictly limited by the court
which decided it. Re W. S. Jennings & Co., 166 Fed. Rep.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellee.

228 U. S.

639 (Georgia). See also Jennings v. Stannus & Son, 191
Fed.. Rep. 347, p. 349; Re Beauchamp, 101 Fed. Rep. 106
(Md.); Collier on Bankruptcy (9th ed.), p. 196; Burdick
on Partnership (2d ed.), p. 299 (5); Pond v. Kimball, 101
Massachusetts, 105.
Mr. Levi S. Chapman and Mr. Henry E. Newell for
appellee:
The policies in suit were not, under the circumstances
here shown, assets which in any event would pass to the
trustees. Sec. 70a, subd. 5.
The policies in suit, at the time of petition filed having
no actual cash surrender value and no value of any kind
which could be realized by the bankrupt or the trustees,
were merely executory contracts, and were not property
or a property right which the trustees in bankruptcy were
entitled to take. Warnock v. Davis, 104 U. S. 775; In re
McKinney, 15 Fed. Rep. 535; Bank of Washington v. Hume,
128 U. S. 195; In re Coleman, 136 Fed. Rep. 818; Hiscock v. Mertens, 205 U. S. 202; In re Newland, No. 10170
Fed. Cas.; Leonard v. Clinton, 26 Hun (N. Y.), 288;
Barber's Adms. v. Laroue, 106 Kentucky, 546; Holt v.
Everall, 34 L. T. (N. S.) 599; In re Beulow, 98 Fed. Rep.
86; Matter of Josephson, 121 Fed. Rep. 142; aff'd 124 Fed.
Rep. 734; Morris v. Dodd, 116 Georgia, 606; In re Steele,
98 Fed. Rep. 78; Re Lange, 91 Fed. Rep. 361; Aetna Nat.
Bank v. U. S. Life Ins. Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 770; Gould v.
N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 927; Re Judson, 193
Fed. Rep. 834; Re Slingluff, 106 Fed. Rep. 154; Collier on
Bankruptcy, 7th ed., 1909, p. 822.
The value of a life insurance policy as an asset in the
case of liquidation of the company, is its cash or reserve
value. People v. Security Life Ins. Co., 78 N. Y. 114;
Matter of Hettling, 23 A. B. R. 161; In re Orear, 178 Fed.
Rep. 632; Partridge v. Andrews, 191 Fed. Rep. 325, can
all be distinguished or are in error.

BURLINGHAM v. CROUSE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The policies in question are within the proviso of § 70a,
subd. 5 of the Bankruptcy Law. In re Bertonshaw, 157
Fed. Rep. 363.
A transfer by an insolvent of exempt property is valid
as to creditors even though the transfer be voluntary. A
debtor may keep or sell his exempt property as he sees fit.
Baldwin v. Rogers, 28 Minnesota, 544; Bulkley v. Wheeler,
52 Michigan, 296; Kramer v. Wood, 52 S. W. Rep. 1113;
Smyth v. Hall, 126 Iowa, 627, 102 N. W. Rep. 520.
The bankrupt's right under § 70 to retain any insurance
policy held by him by paying or securing to the trustee the
cash surrender value thereof after the same has been stated
by the company to the trustee, is an assignable right.
Van Kirk v. Vermont Slate Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 38.
MR. JUsTicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The action was brought in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York by the trustees of the firm of T. A. McIntyre & Company, and of the
individual members of that firm, bankrupts, against
Charles M. Crouse and The Equitable Life Assurance
Society of the United States to recover the sum of
$90,698.32, the net proceeds of certain policies of insurance
issued by the Equitable Life Assurance Society upon the
life of Thomas A. McIntyre, one of the bankrupts, deceased. The proceeds of the policies were paid into court
by the Society. The judgment of the District Court in
favor of Crouse was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals (181 Fed. Rep. 479), and the case has been appealed to this court.
It appears that on the tenth of April, 1902, Thomas A.
McIntyre obtained two policies of life insurance in the
Equitable Society. They were known as "guaranteed
cash-value, limited payment, life policies," each providing
that upon the death of the insured the company would
pay to his executors, administrators or assigns the sum of
VOL. ccxxviii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

$100,000 in fifty annual instalments or the sum of $53,000
in cash, a total of $106,000 for the two policies. On
April 14, 1906, the policies were assigned absolutely to
the firm of T. A. McIntyre & Company, and on April 24,
1907, they were by that firm assigned to the Equitable
Society as collateral security for a loan of $15,370. On
February 25, 1908, two months prior to the filing of the
petition in bankruptcy, the policies were assigned by
McIntyre & Company to the defendant, Charles M.
Crouse, subject, however, to the prior assignment to the
Equitable Society. A petition in involuntary bankruptcy
was filed' against McIntyre & Company and its individual
members on April 25, 1908, and on May 9, 1908, the defendant Crouse paid the premiums on the policies, in the
sum of $6,078.38. McIntyre & Company and the individual members thereof were adjudged involuntary
bankrupts on May 21, 1908, and the trustees were elected
on the twenty-fourth of July, 1908. On the twenty-ninth
of July, 1908, Thomas A. McIntyre died, and the policies
became payable.
It appears that the policies had a cash surrender value,
which at the time when the trustees qualified was $15,370,
or the amount of the loan of the Equitable Society upon
the policies. It is therefore apparent that on the day
when the petition was filed, as well as the day of the
adjudication in bankruptcy, the cash surrender value
would not have exceeded the loan and lien of the Society
upon the policies. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit held that under the circumstances the
policies did not pass to the trustees as assets, and therefore
the action which had been begun to set aside the transfer
to Crouse, as a preference within the Bankruptcy Act,
could not be maintained.
The correctness of this decision depends primarily upon
the construction of § 70a of the Bankruptcy Act which
reads:.

3URLINGHAM v. CROUSE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

"The trustee. of the estate of a bankrupt, upon his
appointment and qualification, and his successor or
successors, if he shall have one or more, upon his or their
appointment and qualification, shall in turn be vested by
operation of law with the title of the bankrupt, as of
the date he was adjudged a bankrupt, except in so far as it
is to property which is exempt, to all (1) documents relating to his property; (2) interests in. patents, patent rights,
copyrights, and trade-marks; (3) powers which he might
have exercised for his own benefit, but not those which he
might have exercised for some other person; (4) property
transferred by him in fraud of his creditors; (5) property
which prior to the filing of the petition he could by any
means have transferred or which might have been levied
upon and sold under judicial process against him: Provided, That when any bankrupt shall have any insurance
policy which has a cash surrender value payable to himself,
his estate, or personal representatives, he may, within
thirty days after the cash surrender value has been ascertained and stated to the trustee by the company issuing the
same, pay or secure to the trustee the sum so ascertained
and stated, and continue to hold, own, and carry such
policy free from the claims of the creditors participating
in the distribution of his estate under the bankruptcy
proceedings, otherwise the policy shall pass to the trustee
as assets; and (6) rights of action arising upon contracts
or from the unlawful taking or detention of, or injury to,
his property."
The part of the section particularly to be considered is
subdivision 5 and its proviso. Subdivision 5 undertakes
to vest in the trustee property which, prior to the filing of
the petition, the bankrupt could by any means have
transferred or which might have been levied upon or sold
under judicial process against him. Then follows the
proviso with reference to insurance policies which have a
cash surrender value, permitting a bankrupt, when the cash

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

surrender value has been ascertained and stated, to pay
or secure such sum to the trustee and to continue to hold,
own and carry the policies free from the claims of creditors,
otherwise the policies to pass to the trustee as assets.
Two constructions have been given this section, and the
question, as presented in this case, has not been the subject of direct determination in this court. The one favors
the view that only policies having a cash surrender value
are intended to pass to the trustee for the benefit of
creditors.' The other, conceding that the proviso deals
with this class of policies, maintains that policies of life insurance which have no surrender value pass to the trustee
under the language of § 70a immediately preceding the
proviso, which reads: "Property which prior to the filing
of the petition he could by any means have transferred or
which might have been levied upon and sold under judicial
process against him." 2
To determine the congressional intent in this respect
requires a brief consideration of the nature of the rights
dealt with. Life insurance, may be given in a contract
providing simply for payment of premiums on a calculated
basis which accumulates no surplus for the holder. Such
insurance has no surrender value. Policies, whether payable at the end of a term of years or at death, may be
issued upon a basis of calculation which accumulates a
net reserve in favor of the policy-holder and which forms a
consequent basis for the surrender of the policy by the
insured with advantage to the company upon the payment
of a part of this accumulated reserve. This feature 'of
surrender value was discussed by Judge Brown of the
1 In re Buelow, 98 Fed. Rep. 86; In re Josephson, 121 Fed. Rep. 142;
Gould v. New York Life Ins. Co., 132 Fed. Rey. 927; Morris v. Dodd,
110 Georgia, 606.
2In re Becker, 106 Fed. Rep. 54; In re Slingluff, 106 Fed. Rep. 154;
In re Welling, 113 Fed. Rep. 189; In re Coleman, 136 Fed. Rep. 818; In
re Hettling, 175 Fed. Rep. 65; In re Orear, 178 Fed. Rep. 632,

BURLINGHAM v. CROUSE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Southern District of New York, in In re McKinney, 15
Fed. Rep. 535, 537:
"The first of these elements, the surrender value of the
policy, arises from the fact that the fixed annual premium
is much in excess of the annual risk during the earlier
years of the policy, an excess made necessary in order to
balance the deficiency of the same premium to meet the
annual risk during the latter years of the policy. This
excess in the premium paid over the annual cost of insurance, with accumulations of interest, constitutes the surrender value. Though this excess of premiums paid is
legally the sole property of the company, still in practical
effect, though not in law, it is moneys of the assured
deposited with the company in advance to make up
the deficiency in later premiums to cover the annual cost
of insurance, instead of being retained by the assured and
paid by him to the company in the shape of greatlyincreased premiums, when the risk is greatest. It is the
'net reserve' required by law to be kept by the company
for the benefit of the assured, and to be maintained to the
credit of the policy. So long as the policy remains in force
the company has not practically any beneficial interest in
it, except as its custodian, with the obligation to maintain it unimpaired and suitably invested for the benefit
of the insured. This is the practical, though not the legal,
relation of the company to this fund.
"Upon the surrender of the policy before the death of
the assured, the company, to be relieved from all responsibility for the increased risk, which is represented by this
accumulating reserve, could well afford to surrender a
considerable part of it to the assured, or his representative.
A return of a part in some form or other is now usually
made. . .
This case has been cited with approval in this court.
Holden v. Stratton, 198 U. S.202; Hiscock v. Mertens, 205
U. S. 202.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Under the Bankruptcy Act of 1867 no special provision
was made for insurance policies. The section providing
for the passing of the assets of the bankrupt to the trustee
.contained the broad language of "all the estate, real and
personal." Under this statute it was held in In re McKinney, supra, that the insuranc6 upon the life of the
bankrupt vested in the bankrupt estate only to the extent
of its cash surrender value at the time of the filing of the
petition.
In Holden v. Stratton, supra, this court held that the
law of the State of Washington, exempting-the proceeds
of life insurance policies, was applicable, and under the
Bankruptcy Act of 1898, § 6, the bankrupt might retain
such policies. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, from which Holden v. Stratton came by certiorari
to this court, had held that § 70a was not controlled by
the exemptions provided in § 6 of the Bankruptcy Act,
and had adhered to its former decision in In re Scheld, 104
Fed. Rep. 870, in which § 70a had been construed to pass
insurance policies having a cash surrender value to the
trustee, unless the bankrupt paid or secured thg surrender
value, as pointed out in the section. While this court held
that the exemption under the state law applied under the
Bankruptcy Act to the policy in question, coming to deal
with the construction of § 70a, this court said (p. 213):
"As section 70a deals only with property which, not
being exempt, passes to the trustee, the mission of the
proviso was, in the interest of the perpetuation of policies
of life insurance, to provide a rule by which, where such
policies passed to the trustee because they were not exempt, if they had a surrender value their future operation
could be preserved by vesting the bankrupt with the privilege of paying such surrender value, whereby the policy
would be withdrawn out of the category of an asset of
the estate. That is to say, the purpose of the proviso was
to confer a benefit upon the insured bankrupt by limiting

BURLII',GHAM v. CROUSE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the character of the interest in a non-exempt life insurance
policy which should pass to the trustee, and not to cause
such a policy when exempt to become. an asset of the estate. When the purpose of the proviso is thus ascertained
it becomes apparent that to maintain the construction
which the argument seeks to affix to the proviso, would
cause it to produce a result diametrically opposed to its
spirit and to the purpose it was intended to subserve."
The section came again before this court in Hiscock v.
Mertens, supra, and it was held that the insured was entitled to retain the policies upon the payment to the
trustee of a sum equivalent to the amount the company
was willing to pay according to its custom, although there
was no stipulation in the policies as to a cash surrender
value, and upon this subject the court said (p. 212):
"What possible difference could it make whether the
surrender valne was stipulated in a policy or universally
recognized by the companies. In either case the purpose
of the statute would be subserved, which was to secure
to the trustee the sum of such value and to enable the
bankrupt to 'continue to hold, own and carry such policy
free from the claims of the creditors participating in the
distribution of the estate under the bankruptcy proceedings."
And in that case it appeared that this sum was less
than $6,000, whereas in a short time, some six months
later, the maturity of one of the policies would give it a
value of over $11,000. But this court held that this
circumstance made no difference in the right, of the insured
to pay the surrender value and hold the policy.
True it is that life insurance policies are a species of
property and might be held to pass under the general
terms of subd. 5, § 70a, but a proviso dealing with a
class of this property was inserted and must be given its
due weight in construing the statute. It is also true that
a proviso may sometimes mean simply additional legisla-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

tion, and not be intended to have the usual and primary
office of a proviso which is to limit generalities and exclude
from the scope of the statute that which would otherwise
be within its terms.
This proviso deals with explicitness with the subject of
life insurance held by the bankrupt which has a surrender
value. Originally life insurance policies were contracts
in consideration of annual sums paid as premiums for the
payment of a fixed sum on the death of the insured. It
is true that such contracts have been much varied in form
since, and policies payable in a period of years so as to
become investments and means of money saving are in
common use. But most of these policies will be found to
have either a stipulated surrender value or an established
value, the amount of which the companies are willing to
pay and which brings the policy within the terms of the
proviso (Hiscock v. Mertens, supra) and makes its present
value available to the bankrupt estate. While life insurance is. property, it is peculiar property. Legislatures of
some of the States have provided that policies of insurance shall be exempt from liability for debt, and in many
States provision is made for the protection from such
liability of policies in favor of those dependent upon the
insured. See Holden v. Stratton, supra.
Congress undoubtedly had the nature of insurance contracts in mind in passing § 70a with its proviso. Ordinarily the keeping up of insurance of either class would require the payment of premiums perhaps for a number of
years. For this purpose the estate might or might not
have funds, or the payments might be so deferred as to
unduly embarrass, the settlement of the estate. Congress
recognized also that many policies at the time of bankruptcy might have a very considerable present value
which a bankrupt could realize by surrendering his policy
to the company. We think it was this latter sum that the
act intended to secure to creditors by requiring its pay-

BURLINGHAM v. CROUSE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment to the trustee as a condition of keeping the policy
alive. In passing this statute Congress intended, while
exacting this much, that when that sum was realized to
the estate the bankrupt should be permitted to retain the
insurance which, because of advancing years or declining
health, it might be impossible for him to replace. It is
the twofold purpose of the Bankruptcy Act to convert the
estate of the bankrupt into cash and distribute it among
creditors and then to give the bankrupt a fresh start with
such exemptions and rights as the statute left untouched.
In the light of this policy the act must be construed. We
think it was the purpose of Congress to pass to the trustee
that sum which was available to the bankrupt at the time
of bankruptcy as a cash asset, otherwise to leave to the
insured the benefit of his life insurance.
It should be observed, in this connection, that in the
present case the company had advanced upon the policies
their full surrender value, as stipulated in the policies, and
that the only interest that could have passed to the
trustees would have been the speculative right to the net
proceeds of the policies, contingent upon the death of
the bankrupt and possibly dependent upon the payment
of large annual premiums for thirteen years.
It is urged, however, that under § 70a, the cash surrender
value was to be paid by the bankrupt when ascertained
and the policies kept alive for his benefit, and as these
policies had been assigned by the beneficiary to McIntyre
& Company, not as collateral, but absolutely, they would
not come within the terms of the proviso, and therefore
the proceeds of the policies vested in the bankrupt estate;
but we find nothing in the act by which the right of the
assignee of a policy to the benefits which would have
accrued to the bankrupt is limited. As we have construed
the statute, its purpose was to ,vest the surrender value
in the trustee for the benefit of the creditors and not otherwise to limit the bankrupt in dealing with his policy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

As to the reimbursement of Crouse for the premiums
advanced by him and the application by him of the proceeds of the policies to particular items of indebtedness of
the bankrupt estate in his favor-upon the facts found we
have no occasion to'disturb the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals.
It results that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be
Affirmed.

EVERETT, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JUDSON, v. JUDSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPLALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 595.

Argued March 13, 1913.-Decided Ar dl 28, 1913.

Burlingham v. Crouse, ante, p. 459, followed to effec that under § 70a
of the Bankruptcy Act the trustee only takes furrender value of
insurance policies on the bankrupt's life, or, in case loans have been
made by the company issuing the policies, only the excess of surrender value over the amount of the loan.
Under § 70a of the Bankruptcy Act the bankrupt is entitled to the
policy by paying the amount of the cash surrender value or excess
thereof over loans as of the date of the filing of the petition, and in
case of the maturity of the policy before the adjudication he or his
legal representative is entitled to the proceeds of the policy over
and above such amount.
Congress, by the proviso in § 70a, fixed the date of filing the petition
as the line of cleavage as between the trustee and the bankrupt in
regard to life insurance policies, and this is not affected by subsequent events such as the maturity of the policy by the suicide of the
bankrupt, even though prior to adjudication.
192 Fed. Rep. 834, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 70a of
the Bankruptcy Act and the ownership of policies of

