OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

A demurrer to the indictment was heard along with
the demurrer to the indictment in the case against Chavez,
which we have just decided.

The demurrer was sustained

and the indictment quashed upon the opinion rendered in

the Chavez Case. The ruling which we have just made in
that case is therefore applicable to this and necessitates a
reversal.

Judgment reversed.

CLARKE, TRUSTEE UNDER THE WILL OF PARSONS, v. ROGERS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY
OF THE ESTATE OF SHAW.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 221.

Argued April 16, 17, 1913.-Decided May 5, 1913.

The same person, considered in different capacities, may act as the
giver and receiver of a fraudulent preference; and so held in a case
where a trustee of several trusts, with knowledge of his insolvency,
transferred property to one of the trusts to which he was indebted.
See Bush v. Moore, 133 Massachusetts, 192.
The obligation resting on a defaulting testamentary trustee to restore
the value of the assets embezzled is of a contractual character and
the debt is provable although it is fraudulent and excepted from the
discharge.
Under the laws of Massachusetts there may be a contractual obligation
of one trust to another for payments improperly made from assets
of the latter for the benefit of the former. Bremer v. Williams, 210
Massachusetts, 256.
Section 17 of the Bankruptcy Act enumerates debts provable under
§ 63a which are not discharged, and among them are included those
that arise by the conversion of trust funds.
Equality between creditors is necessarily the ultimate aim of the Bank-

CLARKE v. ROGERS.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

ruptcy act; and even if the dividend be very small, the court will not
construe the act so as to allow one creditor to be preferred above the
others.
There may be unity of the person and difference in capacities, but such
unity imputes knowledge of the purpose for which the different
capacities Were exercised.
183 Fed. Rep. 518, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act in regard to preferences and provable debts,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Felix Rackemann, with whom Mr. Harrison M.
Davis was on the brief, for appellant:
No successor trustee having been appointed until long
after the transaction took place, and at the time of the
alleged preference there being no creditor then existing and ascertained, there could be no debt provable in
bankruptcy, and no preference within the meaning of the
act..
The beneficiaries of the trusts under the Parsons will
were not creditors of Shaw. They had an interest in
having the trust funds restored, but thie value of the
missing securities was in no event due or payable to
them. Bennett v. Woodman, 116 Massachusetts, 518.
There is no provable debt on a probate bond until the
right to put the bond in suit has become complete. Harmon v. McDonald, 187 Massachusetts, 578; Loring v.
Kendall, 1 Gray, 305.
There is no provable debt on a probate bond until some
person is ascertained, other than the obligor, who will be
entitled to receive the amount for which execution may
be awarded. Bennett v. Russell, 2 Allen, 537,'541.
There is no liability apart. from the -bond. Brooks v.
Brooks, 11 Cush. 18; Conant v. Kendall; 21 Pick. 36;
Johnson v. Johnson, 120 Massachusetts, 455.
The contractual obligation, without which there can

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

228 U. S.

be no provable debt, must be found in the probate bond.
Wheeler v. Freeman, 13 Pick. 167; Brooks v. Brooks, 11
Cush. 18.
Apart from the bond, and considering the situation as
it would have been had no bond been given or required,
there was no contract obligation resting upon Shaw, in his
capacity of testamentary trustee.
The obligation to restore the value of assets embezzled
cannot be contractual, when the antecedent obligation
not to embezzle is not contractual. The liability results
from breach of the obligation and cannot be of a different
nature. The defaulting trustee is bound to make good a
defalcation for the same reason that he is bound to exercise due care in making investments; all his duties and
liabilities are derived from the obligation of faithful administration, and that obligation arises, not ex contractu,
but ex lege.
The complex relations involved in a trust cannot be
reduced to the ordinary elements of contract. Ward's
Pollock on Contracts, p. 231.
The true owner of goods wrongfully converted and sold
may waive the tort and recover the money in assumpsit.
This is a pure tort liability. Nor will the contract form
of remedy lie if the wrong-doer has not sold the goods
and received money for them. Jones v. Hoar, 5 Pick. 285;
1 Cooley on Torts, 3d ed., p. 160; Ward's Pollock on Contracts, p. 238; see LoVeland, 4th ed., p. 669. Crawford V.
Burke, 195 U. S. 176, distinguished.
At the time of the alleged preference, there was no one
who could have sued Shaw in indebitatus assumpsit. He
had converted trust securities/ The record does not show
how he had disposed of them, or whether he had sold them
and received money for them. -His liability was in the
nature of tort. He was a tort-feasor in equity. Loring v.
Salisbury Mills, 125 Massachusetts, 138, 153; In re Tucker,
153 Fed. Rep.. 91, 96. But there was no one who could'

CLARKE v. ROGERS.
228 U. S.

Argument for AppeUant.

sue him at law, and the doctrines of waiver of tort and
quasi-contract do not apply, in default of a plaintiff entitled to invoke them. Gould v. Emerson, 99 Massachusetts, 154, 157: Johnson v. Johnson, 120 Massachusetts,
165; Henchey v. Henchey, 167 Massachusetts, 77; Minchin
v. Minchin, 157 Massachusetts, 265.
In the case at bar, the trust was open; there had been
no accounting; no money was due any cestui que trust,
and the amount of the trustee's liability by reason of his
breaches of trust remained to be ascertained.
The decree can be supported only on fictions.
By a fiction of law, a contract relation is sometimes
implied between two persons in order that one of them
may have a remedy against the other in contract form.
But in the case at bat, both the contract and the creditor
are fictitious. Eastman v. Wright, 6 Pick. 316, 321.
It is obvious that there can be no real contract, or
meeting of minds, or legal obligation between a person
acting in one capacity and the same person acting in another capacity. Two persons, at least, are involved in
the conception of the simplest legal right or obligation..
Therefore, no man can be defendant in an. action in which
he is also plaintiff, either at law or equity. Lewin on
Trusts, 8th Eng. ed., p. 91; 1 Perry on Trusts, 5th ed.,
p. 11; Prentice v. Dehon, 10 Allen, 353; Batchelder, Petitioner, 147 Massachusetts, 465, 471; Sigourney v. Wetherdl,
6 Met., 553, 557; Benchley v. Chapin, 10 Cush. 173.
It is not necessary that the debt should have been
liquidated, and insolvency of the debtor makes no difference. The presumption is conclusive that the debt has
been paid. Choate v. Thorndike, 138 Massachusetts, 371;
Bassett v. Fidelity &c. Co., 184 Massachusetts, 210; and see
Ipswich Mfg. Co. v. Story, 5 Met. 310, 313; Leland v.
Felton, 1 Allen, 531; Mattoon v. Cowing, 13 Gray, 387, 390.
When the right to demand and the liability to pay coexist in one person, the law presumes instantaneous pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

228 U. S.

ment and extinguishes the debt. Woerner, Executors and
Administrators, § 311. See Article on Legal Fictions, 7'
Harvard Law Review, p. 262.
The trust estate was not Shaw's creditor in a legal sense.
Salmond, Jurisprudence, 2d ed., 283; Taylor v. Davis, 110
U. S. 330, 334.
Perhaps, on technical grounds, the strong equity of the
surety under circumstances like those disclosed in this
record could not be protected, if a preference were clearly
shown. But where a creditor and a preference can only
be discovered by resort to novel fictions of law, it would
seem that the surety's equity ought to move the court to
decide the question of preference or no preference in
accordance with the actual facts of the case.
Shaw's knowledge of his own fraud is not to be imputed
to the beneficiaries. But if it were possible to regard the
beneficiaries as creditors and Shaw as their agent, Shaw's
guilty knowledg could not be imputed to his innocent
principals. McNaboe v. Columbian Mfg. Co., 153 Fed.
Rep. 967; Lindsey v. Lambert Assn., 4 Fed. Rep. 48.
The equities in favor of the innocent beneficiaries of
the Parsons trusts ought to forbid the expedient of in-.
venting fictions in order to make out a voidable preference.
In Bush v. Moore, 133 Massachusetts, 198, the guardian
was not both creditor and debtor; he was debtor and agent
of the creditor. See Lowell on Bankruptcy, §§ 93, 100;
Murray v. Wood, 144 Massachusetts, 195.
In England, where unliquidated claims arising from
breach of trust, are provable by express provision of the
statute, 46 and 47 Victoria, c. 52, § 39 (1883), a voluntary
payment to make good a breach of trust is not held a
preference. Sharp V:Jackson (1899), A. C. 419; Robson's
Bankruptcy, 7th ed., p. 237; Orret v. Corser, 21 Beav. 52;
Ex parteShaw, 1 Glyn & Jameson's Cases in Bankruptcy,
127.

CLARKE v. ROGERS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Melvin M. Johnson, with whom Mr. Henry M.
Rogers and Mr. A. Farley Brewer were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Petition by appellee as trustee in bankruptcy of the
estate of John 0. Shaw to recover a preference.
The facts are these: The bankrupt, John 0. Shaw, was,
for a long time prior to the adjudication in bankruptcy,
trustee under the will of Samuel Parsons, late of Newton,
in the county of Middlesex, Massachusetts, of two trusts,
one for the benefit of Charles A., James H. and Henry B.
Parsons, and the other for the benefit of E. F. and E. A.
Parsons.
After proceedings in bankruptcy had been commenced,
Shaw resigned the trusts and his resignation was accepted
by the Probate Court of Middlesex County on March 25,
1908, and appellant, George Lemist Clarke, was appointed
trustee of the trusts and duly qualified.
In the month of January, 1908, and within four months
before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy against him
and whilst he was insolvent, Shaw was largely indebted to
each of the trusts and to himself as trustee and transferred
from himself individually to the trusts and to himself as
trustee thereof as follows: To the trust for C. A. Parsons
et al., seven of the $1,000 collateral trust 4% bonds of
'the American Telephone & Telegraph Company (numbers
specified), and two $1,000 Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad Company 3'2% Illinois Division (numbers specified); to the trust of E. F. and E. A. Parsons, twelve $1,000
Northern Pacific--Great Northern 4% joint bonds, Chicago, Burlington & Quincy collateral.
The transfers were made by Shaw with knowledge of his
insolvency and with intent to prefer the trusts and himself

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

as trustee, and the effect (it is alleged) of such preference,
if not avoided, will be to enable the trust esfates and himself as trustee thereof (being one of his individual creditors)
to obtain a greater percentage of his debts than any other
of his creditors of the same class.
The petition prayed that the bonds be declared to be
the bonds of petitioner, appellee here, and that Clarke,
appellant here, be ordered to execute such instruments as
might be necessary to transfer the title to and possession
Of all the bonds to petitioner.
The answer of appellant denied only that the transfers
were made within four months of the bankruptcy, that
Shaw was at the time of the transfer insolvent, that all the
trusts were his creditors then or have become so since
within the meaning of the statute, and denies that he intended by the transfers to give a preference or that they
constitute a preference.
The decree of the District Judge was that five of the
seven Telephone and twelve of the Northern PacificGreat Northern Railroad Company 4% joint bonds and
all of the coupons thereon payable after January, 1908,
were the property of the trustee in bankruptcy, appellee
here.
It was further adjudged that the American Telephone
& Telegraph Company collateral trust 4% bonds (numbered 20,818 and 20,819) were in part the property of the
appellant as trustee and of appellee as trustee. The bonds
were directed to be sold. The decree was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
The District Court found the facts. They are summarized in its opinion as follows:
"The bankrupt, being insolvent and knowing himself
to be insolvent; was discovered by the surety on his bond
as trustee under the Parsons will not to be in possession of
some of the securities which formed a part of the trust
estate and which should have been in his possession as

CLARKE v. ROGERS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trustee. He was being urged by the surety to make good
this shortage. For the purpose of doing so, he placed the
bonds in question in a safe deposit box, taken and agreed
on by himself and the surety as a separate place of d~posit
for the securities belonging to this trust. In the box were
placed also those securities belonging to the trust funds
which had not gone out of his possession. All the securities thus placed in the box and held as constituting the
trust funds have since remained there. The bankrupt has
been removed as trustee, and the respondent, his successor
in the trust, has at present the possession and control of
the contents of the box, including the bonds in question.
"The bankrupt had at the time more than twenty-five
other trust estates in his "charge as trustee. There was,
inthe case of each, a shortage for which he was responsible
and he knew the fact to be so. The total amount of these
shortages exceeded $350,000.
"It has not been shown that any of the bonds used as
above to make good the shortage in the Parsons trust estate, or that any of the money wherewith the bankrupt
purchased those bonds, can be identified as belonging to
any one of the other trust estates in the bankrupt's charge.
He drew out and used to purchase certain of the bonds a
savings bank deposit of $1,500 belonging to one of the
Parsons trust funds; but with that exception the money
wherewith the bonds were bought as well as the bonds
themselves must, for the purposes of the questions to be
decided, be regarded as the bankrupt's individual property
at the time he set them apart in the manner stated, to be
thereafter held as trust property."
The question in the. case is, Do these facts show a preference within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Law?
Putting to one side the identity of Shaw as an individual
and Shaw as the trustee of the trusts, there are the elements of a preference. In other words, there is indebtedness; Shaw is indebted to all of the estates of which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

was trustee. He used his individual property to pay the
indebtedness to the Parsons trust and he thus gave that
trust a preference over the others. It was enabled to the
extent of the property transferred to obtain a greater
percentage of its debts than the other trusts. What, then,
stands in the way of setting the transfer aside? The
debt was not a provable one in bankruptcy, it is contended,
and on that contention the case is rested and to it we may
direct our considerations, and in that the provisions of the
statute become necessary elements.
Section 60a, as amended, is as follows:
"A person shall be deemed to have given a preference,
if, being insolvent, he has, within four months before the
filing of the petition, . . . made a transfer of any
of his property, and the effect of the enforcement of
such . . , transfer will be to enable any one of his
creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than
any other of such creditors of the same class."
A creditor is defined to be "any one who owns a demand
or claim provable in bankruptcy, may include his duly
authorized agent, attorney, or proxy."
Debt includes any debt, demand or claim provable in
bankruptcy. Transfer includes the sale and every other
and different mode of disposing of or parting with property, or the possession of property, absolutely or conditionally, as:a payment, pledge, mortgage, gift or security.
Appellant deduces from these definitions, that no question of a preference can arise except when the transfer is
made to the owner of a provable claim, or to his agent,
and that no claim is provable except when enumerated
in § 63a, and none other can be liquidated under paragraph b. Of the claims enumerated in § 63a the fourth is
the only one with which we are concerned. It is as
follows: "(4) Pounded on an open account, or upon a
contract express or implied." The final contention of
appellant is that one, to receive a preference, must be a

CLARKE v. ROGERS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

creditor of the bankrupt upon a contract express or implied. It is not enough that there be some kind of legal
or equitable claim against the bankrupt. - These postulates laid down, he builds upon them an argument of
great technicality to show that the trusts of Shaw were
not his creditors and therefore could not receive from him a
preference. An obligation to the trusts is not denied, but
it is an obligation, it is asserted, which was represented
entirely by his bond and had no remedy but by a suit on
the bond. The liability of Shaw, it is further contended,
considered independently of the bond, was in the nature
of a pure tort liability which could not be waived and the
remedies of a contract availed of.
That some torts may be waived and be the bases of
provable claims is decided in Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S.
176, 187. Crawford and one'Valentine were stockbrokers
and dealers in investments. They had in their possession
certain shares of stock which they held as a pledge and
security for the amount due them by Burke on the stock.
They sold Burke's reversionary interest in the stock
whereby it was wholly lost. He sued them in trover.
They set up their discharge in bankruptcy. It was held,
the court speaking through Mr. Justice Brown, to be
clear that the debt of Burke was embraced within the
provisions of paragraph a, as one "founded upon an open
account, or upon contract, express or implied," and might
have been proven had he chosen to waive the tort and take
his place with other creditors of the estate. The discharge
in bankruptcy was held on other provisions of the act
to be a defense. The case was applied and followed in
Tindle v. Birkett, 205 U. S. 183, 186, in an action to recover damages claimed to have been sustained by false
and fraudulent representations. Itwas decided that the
claim was one provable under § 63a as "founded upon an
open account or upon a contract, express or implied." It
is, however, said that these cases are explained and limited

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

in Grant Shoe 'Co. v. Laird Co., 212 U. S. 445, to instances
"where there is a claim arising out of a contract, but of
such a nature that there is at the same time an independent remedy in tort." To make this distinction available
appellant must establish his contention that there was
no contractual relation, either between Shaw and his
trusts or the cestuis que trust of the trusts; in other words,
that the sole liability was upon $haw's bond. There is
no other remedy, is the repeated insistence, and that only
after a final accounting has been had in the Probate Court
showing a liquidated balance due from the accountant.
Then and not until then, as we understand appellant, a
creditor emerges with a provable claim. Appellant, however, halts somewhat at the logic of his argument and
ventures to say that a decision in his favor does not necesshrily involve a decision that a claim upon the bond of
the defaulting trustee could not be proved for a dividend
in the name of the probate judge. But is not this concession in opposition to the relation asserted to exist between
a provable debt and a transfer of property on account of
it being a preference?
We have considered the contentions of appellant somewhat minutely, so .as to fully present them. The lower
courts, while giving attention to the technical elements of
appellant's arguments, cut through them to apply the
fundamental purpose of the Bankruptcy Law, that is,
equality between creditors. The District Court, following Bush v. Moore, 133 Massachusetts, 198, decided in
1882 under a provision of the Massachusetts insolvency
law which was similar to the provision in the Bankruptcy
Act of the United States, found no difficulty in the same
person, considered in different capacities, acting as giver
and receiver of a fraudulent preference. The Court of
*Appeals met the contention of appellant that there must
be a contractual relation and decided that it existed, both
on account of the bond and independently of the bond.

CLARKE v. ROGERS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court said: "It is true that, in the ordinary course,

enforcing the bond would be at the end of the proceedings
and not at the beginning. Notwithstanding, as the equitable rules which govern bankrupts always look to the end
and disregard the intervening details as only steps to
reach the end, there was in this case a contract from the
beginning, that is, the bond, which was capable of liquidation on the rules explained in Tindle v. Birkett, 205 U. S.
183. Aside from this and independently of the bond, we

believe there is an obligation resting on a defaulting testamentary trustee to restore the value of the assets embezzled, which is of contractual character."
But this, appellant contends, is to evolve "two moral
persons out of one embezzler." The criticism only can
be made by putting out of view what the "one embezzler"
represents. He is one being but acts in more than one
capacity, and in all of his capacities he has duties and
obligations. The relation of a trustee to the trust property is not the same as his relation to his individual property. He certainly may incur obligations to the trust. He
can only satisfy the obligations out of his individual
property, and by doing so may deplete it, make it deficient, to satisfy its obligations. These are realities, not
fictions. We must overlook essential things to disregard them, and hence the decision in Bush v. Moore, supra.
Moore was the guardian of his son and wrongfully appropriated to his own use the moneys of his ward. Within
six months preceding his insolvency, and being insolvent,
intending to restore the funds he had appropriated, he
deposited in the defendant bank the necessary sum derived
from his private property. His assignees in insolvency
sued in equity to recover the sum as a preference, alleging
that he at the time was insolvent and acted in contemplation of insolvency. The Massachusetts statute made
void any payment or conveyance of property by an insolvent "to any creditor or person having a claim against
VOL. ccxxviii-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

,him," and gave power to the assignee to recover the property.
These contentions were made: (1) The ward was not a
creditor of the guardian or a person having a claim against
him. (2) The act of the guardian did not constitute a
preference- which was avoidable by reason of his insolvency. (3) Had the misappropriation continued there
would have been no claim by the ward which could have
been the foundation of a suit. (4) His remedy was to
summons the guardian into the probate court and then,
upon adjudication there, or K: he-failed to account, there
would have been only the remedy for failure to account
or to comply with the decree of the court.
The contentions, it will be observed, were like those
made in the case at bar. They were all rejected. It was
'held that the title to the property continued in the ward,
the guardian having its custody only, and he having
wrongfully used it, there was a just claim on the part of
the ward that the integrity of the fund should be restored.
The court said: "The title of property of one under guardianship continues always in the ward; the guardian has.
the custody merely. -If, availing himself of that custody,
he wrongfully uses it, there is a just claim on the part of
the ward that the integrity of the fund shall be restored.
It is not important in what form the ward is compelled
to seek this remedy, or that the wrongful act of the
guardian will not immediately afford a ground of action
against him. Even if, upon a settlement in the Probate
Court, it might have been held that the lawful and proper
charges of the guardian would exceed the amount of his
spoliations, there was not the less a just claim that the
ward's property which had been unlawfully dealt with
should be replaced."
To the contention that two persons were necessary to
consummate a preference, one to transfer'and the other
to receive the property, the court answered: "But .where

CLARKE v. ROGERS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the same person acts as the giver and receiver of the
security, the occurrence and participation of two parties
to the fraudulent preference exists. . . . One individual acting in two capacities, debtor and on behalf
of the creditor, may constitute the two persons contemplated by the statute." And, supplying the element
of knowledge of the insolvency and the preference required by the statute, the court said that the ward was
bound by the knowledge of his guardian.
The case is certainly determinative of appellant's contention that accounting in the Probate Court was necessary as a condition to a provable claim, or that a suit on a
bond was the only remedy available for the misappropriation of funds by a guardian.. This applies as well to a
trustee; and that there, may be a contractual obligation
of one trust to another under the laws of Massachusetts
is decided in Bremer v. Williams, 210 Massachusetts, 256.
In that case a person who was the sole trustee of two
separate estates paid the taxes due from one of them with
money embezzled from the other. It was held that ,the
new trustee of the latter could maintain suit in equity to
recover from another unjustly enriched by the embezzlement. The liability of the latter to the former, the court
said, grew out of an implied or constructive obligation,
and did not rest upon an express trust, and, being such,
the statute of limitations would be a bar in equity as well
as in law. In other words, the court recognized that from
the misuse of the funds the law would imply an obligation
to repay. This ruling brings the case at bar within Crawford v. Burke and Tindle v. Birkett, even if their application be as limited as appellant contends. Itfmay be
questioned if they are so limited. They recognize the
relation of § 63a to § 17. Section 17 excludes certain
debts from discharge, among others, those created by the
bankrupt's "fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, or
defalcation while acting as an officer or in any fiduciary

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

capacity." It was said in Crawford v. Burke, "If no fraud
could be made the basis of a provable debt, why were
certain frauds excepted from the operation of the discharge?" The question was pertinent in view of the language of the section. It provides that 'a discharge in
bankruptcy shall release a bankrupt from all of his provable debts, except such as," etc. The relation of the section was also recognized in Friend v. Talcott, ante, p. 27.
It is there declared that § 17 enumerates the debts provable
under § 63a which are not discharged. Among them, we
have seen, are those created by fraud, embezzlement,
misappropriation or defalcation in any fiduciary capacity.
it would seem, therefore, to follow that the conversion of
trusts funds creates a liability provable in bankruptcy.
The Court of Appeals expressed the hardship of a contrary conclusioir "Moreover," the court said, "it will
be a great hardship if the various estates of which Shaw
was trustee cannot recover any part of their loss of about
$350,000 by sharing in his bankrupt estate. This may, of
course, in this instance, be but a very small dividend, but
in another instance it might be very near the face of the
default. Any construction which would leave such a result as that cannot, of course, be accepted unless fairly
forced upon us."
In this, we think, the court was right. Equality between creditors is necessarily the ultimate aim of the
Bankrupt Law, and to obtain it we must regard the essential nature of transactions, not their forms or accidents. As we have said, there may be an unity of the
person in the individual and the trustee; of the individual
and the guardian; we must look beyond it to the difference
in his capacities and the duties and obligations resulting
from it. These duties and obligations are as distinct and
insistent as though exercised by different individuals and
have the same legal consequences. The unity of the
person has, of course, an effect. It constitutes such re-

TIACO v. FORBES.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

lationship between the different capacities exercised as to
impute knowledge of their exercise and for what purpose
exercised. Bush v. Moore, supra; Atlantic Mills v. Indian
OrchardMills, 147 Massachusetts, 268, 282; S. C., 102 U. S.
263; Atlantic Bank v. Merchants' Bank, 10 Gray, 532, cited
in United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30, 36.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the result.

TIACO v. FORBES.
TICO v. SAME.
SY CHANG v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

Nos. 254, 255, 256.

Argued April 24, 1913.-Decided May 5, 1913.

Where, the act originally purports to be done in the name and by the
authority of the State, a defect in that authority may be cured by
the subsequent adoption of the act.
The deportation of a Chinaman from the Philippine Islands by the
Governor General prior to an act of the legislature authorizing such
deportation is to be considered as having been ordered in pursuance
of such statute.
Sovereign states have inherent power to deport aliens, and Congress
is not deprived of this power by the Constitution of the United

States.
The ground on which the power to deport aliens rests necessitates that
it may have to be exercised in a summary manner by executive
officers.
Congress not being prevented y the Constitution from deporting

