OCTOBER TERM. 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

referred. The law was not the declaration of a new policy
but a more explicit expression of the purpose of the prior
law, made necessary by the judicial construction of that
law.
The question certified is, therefore, answered in the affirmative.

BRADFORD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 571.

Submitted March 24, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

One convicted of fraud in obtaining patents to public lands filed a
petition for pardon which was granted on condition that he make full
restitution to the 'satisfaction of the United States Attorney for the
district in which the land was situated, in respect to all land, land
titles or claims to land. He filed a relinquishment reserving under
the laws of the State in which the land was situated the right to all
improvements, the value thereof, with all taxes theretofore paid and
to proceed against the United States for the same. He then brought
suit in the Court of Claims therefor: Held that
Under the conditions of the pardon which he accepted no right was
wrested from him; but, as he was to make voluntary restitution for
his wrong-doing, he was not deprived of his lands or property nor
evicted therefrom..
The power of the United States Attorney was limited by the subjectmatter of the agency; and the fact that the restitution was to be
made to his satisfaction did hot enlarge his authority so as to bind
the United States to make payments to one who was to make restitution to it.
Whatever rights the laws of the State might give under such conditions,
the United States is not bound thereby, as no contract was established against it.
47 Ct. Cl. 141, affirmed.

Suit in the Court of Claims under the Tucker Act, socalled, to recover the sum of $15,791.92.

BRADFORD v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The petition was dismissed upon demurrer.
The facts, as alleged, are these: Appellant is the owner
of tracts of land, each containing 160 acres, in the Parish
of Ascension, State of Louisiana, which have been in his
possession and ownership since, respectively, the tenth of
October, 1898, fourteenth of September, 1901, and the
twelfth of December, 1902. The lands at certain times
prior to those dates were public lands of the United States
and subject to entry under §2289 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States. One of the tracts was entered under
such section by one Robert H. Cox, which entry resulted in
a final certificate being issued to him on April 4, 1908, by
the local land officers at New Orleans. On March 5, 1898,
after he had made and submitted his final proof, he conveyed 100.45 acres of the land to one Uhlhorn, and on
December 27, 1898, the latter sold and conveyed-the same
to appellant. On January 2, 1901, Cox conveyed the remaining lands to Leon and Julius Weil, with right of redemption. On certain subsequent dates Cox sold and
relinquished to appellant his right of redemption.
On April 6, 1900, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office suspended the entry of Cox upon the report of two
special agents of the Land Office, but neither Cox nor
appellant was notified of such suspension and no proceedings were had thereon until one Elijah Green filed in the
local land office at New Orleans an application to contest
Cox's entry, charging that it had been made in fraud of
law, in that it had not been made for his own use and
benefit, but for the benefit of appellant. The contest,
under the rules of practice, was referred to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, who decided, on
May 26, 1902, that Green's application could not be permitted for the reason that Cox's entry had been confirmed
by § 7 of the act of Congress of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat.
1099, c. 561), more than two years having elapsed between
,the date of the issue of the final certificate of the entry, and

- OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

the date of Green's application. The Secretary of the
Interior affirmed the decision.
On February 16, 1903, Cox filed in the local land office
at New Orleans, a pretended relinquishment of the entry,,
accompanied by his affidavit executed January 13, 1903,
alleging that he had made the entry in fraud of the law for
the benefit of appellant. The papers were transmitted
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and that
officer on May 3, 1904, held the entry for cancellation and
required appellant to apply for a hearing upon the truth
or falsity of Cox's averments on pain of forfeiture of his
rights under the entry. Appellant applied for a hearing,
denied by affidavit the averments of Cox, and set up as a
defense, the order of the Commissioner and the Secretary
of the Interior deciding that the entry had been confirmed
by the act of Congress of March 3, 1891. The hearing was
never held or granted to appellant, and he has not up to,
this time been given an opportunity to show, as he could
show if he were given opportunity, that Cox's charges
were false in every particular and that he, appellant, was
a bonafide purchaser for value of the lands embraced in the
entry. On the contrary, on April 26, 1905, an indictment
was filed against him in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, charging him With an
attempt to defraud the United States and alleging as an
overt act his application for a hearing of the charges made
by Cox. The indictment was quashed October 31, 1907,
by the United States District Attorney, with leave of the
court.
On the twenty-fourth day of April, 1909, the Commissioner Of the General Land Office, upon the consideration of
the pretended relinquishment of Cox, canceled the entry
and held that the lands were open to entry by other persons, .and entries of the lands have been made.
The second tract described in the petition was entered under the Homestead Law, by one T, R. Cox, and

BRADFORD v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

through certain mesne conveyances appellant became its
owner.
On April 6, 1900, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, in consequence of the report of the agent of the
office, suspended the entry, but no official notice of the
suspension was given to appellant, and no further proceedings were ever had on the suspension of the entry.
On February 17, 1902, Cox, by a fictitious act of sale,
for a nominal consideration, undertook to convey 140
acres of his entry to one S. B. Moore, for the purpose of
defrauding appellant.
On March 19, 1902, one Leslie B. Wright filed a contest
against the entry, making Cox, Moore and appellant parties. The local land office decided the contest in favor of
appellant, holding that the conveyance to Moore was
fictitious and fraudulent and was executed to defeat
appellant's title. Wright appealed from the ruling to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, who affirmed
the decision December 1, 1902.
On December 8, 1903, upon a request of a special agent
of his office, the Commissioner recalled his decision, and
on January 2, 1904, vacated the same without notice to
any one or giving appellant an opportunity to meet the
charges, the Commissioner stating that his action had
been taken on facts disclosed by the special agent's reports
made after the decision.
On April 26, 1905, an indictment under § 5440 of the
Revised Statutes was filed against appellant, alleging as
an overt act appellant's appearances before the local land
office in the contest by Wright. No trial or other proceedings were had upon the indictment, and, on October 31,
1907, it was quashed by the District Attorney, with leave
of the court.
On October 14, 1908, without further notice to appellant, the Commissioner of the General Land Office reversed
the decision of the local land officers in the contest by
VOL. ccxxviii-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

Wright and canceled the homestead entry of Cox, thereby
undertaking to defeat appellant's right and title to the
lands as a bona fide purchaser thereof. The Secretary of
the Interior affirmed the decision.
Appellant, through his counsel, filed a motion for review,
but was compelled to abandon the same by threats of
criminal proceedings under § 5440 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States.
The third tract was entered under the Homestead Law
by one Nancy L. Cotton and final prQof was made by her
and a final certificate was issued to her. She sold the lands
to one Fluker and the latter conveyed them to appellant.
On February 24, 1904, an indictment was filed against
appellant and one Wright, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana under
§ 5440 of the Revised Statutes. The indictment was, on
motion of the District Attorney, quashed.
On May 28, 1903, a contest was instituted against the
entry of Nancy L. Cotton, charging fraud in the initiation
thereof. Notice of the contest was given to Wright, but
not to her. Such proceedings were had thereon that a
decision was rendered sustaining the contest and recommending the 'cancellation of the entry. Appellant appealed from the decision, but was forced to withdraw his
appeal by threats of criminal prosecution. The entry was
thereupon canceled and the lands subsequently entered
by another, whose entry is now intact.
The petition alleges the good faith of appellant's purchase of all of the tracts, that he paid to the State of
Louisiana taxes thereon, constructed roads to have access
to them and cleared them of timber and otherwise im-'
proved them.
The petition further represents that appellant, being in
the parish prison at the Parish of Orleans in the summer
and fall of the year 1907 under proceedings in two criminal
suits, neither of which had relation to or. connection with

BRADFORD v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the lands covered by the entries described, and being
above the age of seventy-six years, in bad health and in
danger of his life, he applied for a pardon. The pardon was
grantea on the fifth of September of the same year, but the
condition was imposed by W. W. Howe, the then District
Attorney of the United States for said Eastern District of
Louisiana, that appellant should relinquish to the United
States the lands described in the entries.
The pardon is attached to the petition and recites
appellant's conviction for violation of §5440, Revised
Statutes, in two cases, in each of which he was sentenced
to imprisonment for one year, and in one, to pay a fine of
$3,000 and in the other a fine of $2,500. The sentences
were commuted to the payment of the fines and costs
"upon condition that he [appellant] shall have previously
made full restitution to the satisfaction of the United
States District Attorney for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, in respect to all lands, land titles or claims to
lands."
Thereupon appellant executed releases of the three
tracts, which were the same, the description of the lands
only being different. They were as follows:
"I hereby relinquish to the United States, all my right,
title and claim in and to the following-described lands,
to-wit:

. . . reserving, under the laws of Louisiana,

the right to all improvements, or the value thereof, with
all taxes heretofore paid, and to proceed against the
United States for-the same."
Appellant cleared portions of the lands to put them
in fit condition for cultivation and also built two good
dwelling houses thereon, all which were in a good state of
preservation at the time he signed the relinquishment to
the Government. Appellant also had made other improvements" usual and necessary for the profitable and successful cultivation and carrying on of a farm or plantation in
that part of Louisiana"

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Attached to the petition are exhibits specially describing
the improvements and showing the amount expended on
the first tract to have been $8,741.60; on the second tract,
$5,765; on the third tract, $798.00, and $487.32 taxes.
The Government accepted the relinquishment and permitted the lands to be entered for homestead purposes
by other parties.
It is alleged that the United States, by accepting the
relinquishment of the lands, became bound and contracted with appellant to pay to and reimburse him for the
price and value of the improvements made by him on the
lands and the taxes paid by him. Certain articles of the
Code of Louisiana are set out which, it is alleged, existed
and that they were specifically relied on by appellant and
adopted and accepted as the measure of appellant's rights
in the premises by the United States District Attorney,
and by the Land Department of the United States, in
accepting and filing the several relinquishments, whereby,
it is further alleged, the United States contracted to pay
petitioner the amount and value of his improvements
made upon the lands, and the taxes.
Mr. Harvey M. Friendfor appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson and
Mr. George Of. Anderson for the United States.
delivered the opinion of the
court, after stating the facts as above.
MR. JUSTIEE MCKENNA

It will be observed from the allegations of the petition
that appellant not only had been convicted of defrauding
the Government of certain lands, but that he was charged
with. fraud in regard to the lands which he relinquished
and on account of which he contends a contract arose
between him and the Government. This must be regarded

BRADFORD v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as an element in the consideration of the case. Appellant
was a convicted wrongdoer in two cases; he was a suspected wrongdoer in the other cases, and from that standpoint the Government dealt with him; and he was a
petitioner for a pardon. The pardon was granted, but
upon terms. He was to make restitution for his wrongdoing. The defrauded Government was to be made
whole. And not by wresting from him a right, either
directly or through the coercion of circumstances, but by
his voluntary reparation, securing thereby the Government clemency.
Appellant, therefore, was not deprived of his lands in the
sense for which he contends, nor evicted from them. He
voluntarily relinquished them for a benefit to himself.
But he asserts that the relinquishment was upon conditions especially reserving rights which put the United
States under indebtedness to him. The contention is
anomalous. Convicted of two offenses and under sentence
for them, and suspected of others, he asks that not only
the punishment may be remitted, but that reimbursement
of expenses and outlays be made him. And this he bases
on the agency which he contends was given the District
Attorney and the effect of the laws of Louisiana.
Plainly the power of the District Attorney was limited
by the subject-matter of his agency. He was to secure
restitution, not to engage for payments by the United
States, amounting to over $15,000-payments for something which could be of no- benefit to the United States,
which would be mere uncompensated outlay, not reparation received from appellant but indemnity given to him.
And it is to be observed that the restitution was to be
"in respect to all ,lands, land titles or claims to lands."
It is true that the restitution was to be made to the
"satisfaction"of the District Attorney, but this did not
enlarge his agency to do more than accept restitution.
As we have seen. appellant had been convicted in cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

928 U. S.

tain cases, he had been accused..in others, charged with
fraud in the entries here involVed, found to have practiced
it. This being the situation, the agency conferred upon
the District Attorney comprehended such adjustments as
would free the lands from the incumbrances of appellant's
acts. The District Attorney had not the power, as appellant contends, as an individual in like situation. We are
not therefore called upon to consider what rights the laws
of Louisiana gave to appellant or whether they could give
any, nor whether, if the United States is not bound by the
condition in the relinquishments, the latter are void. It is
only necessary to decide that appellant has not established
a contract against the United States.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the decision.

MADERA WATER WORKS v. MADERA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 229.

Argued April 17, 18, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

If the constitution of the State authorizes municipalities to construct
utility plants as well after, as before, such plants have been built
by private parties, one constructing such a plant takes the risk of
what may happen, and cannot invoke the Fourteenth Amendment
to protect him against loss by the erection of a municipal plant.

There is nothing in the constitution of California that can be construed
as a contract,. express or implied, that municipalities will not construct water works that will compete with privately owned works
built under the provisiofis of the constitution giving the right, subm

