TEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v. STEWART.
228 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STEWART.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 205.

Submitted March 20, 1913.-Decided April 21, 1913.

A charge that a railway is bound to use ordinary care to light its stations and approaches for the reasonable accommodation of passengers is not erroneous to the prejudice of the railway company.
The obligation of a carrier to use due care obtains not only during
carriage of passengers but while they sustain that relation and are
performing acts fairly attributable thereto.
Such obligation obtains where, as in this case, the passenger left the
car of a train before it had started and after considerable delay, to
ascertain whether it was the right train, no one apparently being in
cl arge who could give the information.
Such an act on the part of a passenger is not an independent cause
which relieves the carrier as being a new and proximate cause of the
accident. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. v. Calhoun, 213 U. S.
1, distinguished.
183 Fed. Rep. 575, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the liability of a common
carrier for injuries sustained by a passenger, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. W. L. Hall and Mr. E. H. Prendergastfor plaintiff
in error:
By the evidence in the case there is no negligence of
the defendant shown that was the proximate cause of the
injury.
Even if the steps of the car were wet and slippery, that
would be the direct result of the rain and, not on account
of any negligence of the defendant. If there was negligence on the part of the defendant, it was not the direct

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228 U. S.

cause of the injury, but plaintiff's own voluntary conduct
intervened and became- the efficient cause. Santa Fe
Railway v. Calhoun, 213 U. S. 1; Insurance Co. v. Tweed,
7 Wall. 44 and 52; Santa Fe v. Hodges, 24 S. W. Rep. 563.
A railway company does not have to furnish assistance
to passengers in alighting from the train. Neil v. Kansas
City Ry., 21 S. W. Rep. 3; 2 Shearman & Redfield on
Negligence, 4th ed., § 510; Cole v. German Savings Society,
104 Fed. Rep. 113.
The negligence of defendant was as to an independent
matter. Plaintiff had safely passed all the dangers that
might have caused her injury which grew out of want
of lights; she had successfully gone through the darkness to a place of -safety and by disregarding the advice
of -her escort she received the injury.
While the 'railroad company owes to its passengers
a very high degree of care, this high degree of care is
imposed on the carrier during the time the passenger
commits himself into the keeping of the carrier, and does
not apply when a passenger's own conduct mingles with
the -cause of the, injury, and this duty to observe a high
degree of care does not apply to the mere condition of
the platform and station grounds which are but a passive
instrument in use by the carrier. 3 Thompson on Negligence, §§ 2937, 2945, 3054.
After the plaintiff had been seated in the car, then she
was not expected to attempt to again get off in the dark,
and when she was injured in the attempt to get off she
cannot hold the company liable.
When the plaintiff, an intended passenger, had been
safely seated in the coach, on the proper train, and was
injured in attempting' to- leave the coach because she
thought it..was the wrong- train; on a 'dark night in the
rain, the want of. sufficient lights on the -station grounds
would not be 'the proximate cause of her injury.
There was no necessity for plaintiff to attempt to get

TEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v. STEWART.
228 U. S.

359

Opinion of the Court.

off the train when she did in the dark, and she cannot,
recover damages for injuries received in that attempt. "
When one gets on the train he is supposed to d6 so for
the purpose of becoming a passenger, and the servants
may assume that he will not desire to get off at once. So
held where one person fssists another on the car and thetrain starts before he has time to get off. See 57 Texas,
85, Pennsylvania Co. v. Marion, 27 A. & Eng. R. R. Cas.
133; 2 Woods on Railway Law, 1000; Thompson on Pas.
Cor. 209, 214; Gwyn v. CincinnatiR. R., 155 Fed. Rep.
91; Railway v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469.

Mr. S. P. Jones for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was begun by Mrs. Dora E. Mayer, since
deceased, to recover damages for injuries alleged to have
been sustained by her because of the negligence of The
Texas and Pacific Railway Company in failing to keep'
its station grounds at Marshall, Texas, properly lighted
when Mrs. Mayer was about to take passage upon one of
its trains. Judgment upon verdict in the United States
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Texas, to which
the case had been removed, was affirmed by the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

The case is brought here because of the fact that the
Railway Company was organized as a Federal corporation.
The facts disclosed in the record tend to show that Mrs.
Mayer, a woman about fifty-nine years of age, desired
to travel from Marshall to New Orleans, Louisiana. For
that purpose, accompanied by a young man, a relative,
she proceeded to the station in the former city. The train
left late at night. The night was dark and rainy. The
station at Marshall has three railway tracks adjoining it.
The first track, nearest to the depot, was unoccupied.

Upon the second a traia was standing, bound for the west,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

the opposite direction to which Mrs. Mayer expected to
travel. The train for New Orleans was standing upon the
third track, headed toward the east, consisting of an express car, smoker, chair car and sleeper. After purchasing
her ticket Mrs. Mayer and her companion proceeded toward the eastbound train on the third track, passing
around the train standing nearer the station. On their
way they met some one with a lantern and were told to
take the train upon the third track. They entered the
smoking car. There was no one in charge of the car,
which was dimly-lighted, and the testimony tends to
show that Mrs. Mayer became apprehensive that she
was upon the wrong car, finding after ten or fifteen minutes that no other person entered the coach. Her escort
assured her that she was upon the right train and left
her in the car, going out of the smoker with a view to
ascertaining whether the chair car was open. Mrs. Mayer
testified:,"I became fearful that I was-on the wrong coach,
as no else entered the same, and I left it to find out as
to whether it was the right car or not,
.
I went
to the door and saw that it was all in darkness, and I
wanted to go and I held on to the door frame to try to
reach the steps of the car with my -feet, and in reaching
for them I went on too far and slipped and fell to the
ground." She was severely injured.
There was testimony tending to show that the station
was improperly lighted, and, as upon writ of error the
facts tending to support the judgment must be considered
in their most favorable aspect in that regard, we must
give due weight to the testimony offered to establish
that the illumination was so deficient at this point as to
make it very difficult to recognize the countenance of a
person more than ten or twelve feet away, and that, when
the train was on the second track, as in this instance, in
the vicinity where Mrs. Mayer fell, the door and steps
of the car were insufficiently lighted. The court sub-

TEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v. STEWART.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mitted the question to the jury upon a charge Which left
to them the issue of negligence in the failure of the Railway Company to use ordinary care to provide sufficient
lights. In this respect the court told the jury:
"Upon that subject you are instructed that after the
plaintiff purchased her ticket and went to the car for the
purpose of taking passage for New Orleans, the relation
of passenger existed between her and the defendant railroad company, and the duty of the defendant to her was
that of exercising ordinary care in having proper lights
for the guidance of those desiring to take passage on its
train, or, if necessary [ity] demanded it, to get off the train.
By ordinary care is meant that degree of care and caution
that a man of ordinary prudence and ordinary caution
would exercise under the same or similar circumstances.
Therefore, in this case determine whether or not the defendant had provided lights such as a man of ordinary
prudence and caution under the circumstances would
have provided. If you find from the evidence that the
railway had provided such lights, you need not pursue
your inquiry further, but return a verdict for the defendant. But, if you find from the evidence that the
lights that the defendant had furnished were not such as
a man of ordinary care and ordinary prudence, under
the circumstances would have furnished, then you are
instructed to determine the further question in regard to
Mrs. Mayer's injuries and how they occurred."
And
the court also charged the jury that if it believed that
Mrs. Mayer thought that she was on the wrong train
and attempted to get off the train to ascertain that fact
definitely before leaving the station, her relation to the
Railway Company continued to be that of a passenger.
The court further instructed the jury that if it found
that the Railway Company was negligent in the respect
mentioned, it should further determine whether Mrs.
Mayer was guilty of contributory negligence in attempting

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

to alight from the car under the circumstances shown, and
that to render a verdict for'the plaintiff the jury must find
from the evidence that the Railway Company had not used
ordinary care in providing lights and that the plaintiff in
attempting to descend from the car had used ordinary
care under the circumstances and that her injury was
solely due to the want of ordinary care upon the Railway
Company's part in failing to provide proper lights.
The charge that a railway company is bound to use
ordinary care to light its stations and approaches for the
reasonable accommodation of passengers, so that they or
those intending to become such may enter upon and depart from trains with reasonable safety, was as favorable
as the defendant could ask. Alabama G. S. Ry. Co. v.
Coggins, 32 C. C. A. 1; S. C., 88 Fed. Rep. 455. The
obligation to use due care obtains not only while the passengers are being carried on the train, but while they sustain the relation of passengers and are performing acts
reasonably and fairly attributable to that relation, such
as leaving the train for refreshment, for the sending of
telegrams, for the taking of exercise and the like. Alabama
G. S. Ry. Co. v. Coggins, supra, and cases therein cited.
We see no reason to disagree with the court below in its
charge with reference to contributory negligence. In
view of the fact that no one was in charge of the train and
that nobody came into the car after Mrs. Mayer had
been there some ten or fifteen minutes, it was not an unusual or improper thing that she, an elderly woman, under
such circumstances, should wish to learn for herself whether
or not she had taken the right train or car for transportation upon her intended journey.
Nor do we think there is force in the contention that,
Mrs. Mayer being once safely on the train, her own conduct in undertaking to leave it was the intervention of a
new and proximate cause of the injury, which alone resulted in her misfortune and of-which she cannot complain,

TEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v: STEWART.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for this argument, like the other, proceeds upon the assumption that, she having once safely become a passengdi,
the Railway Company owed her no further duty. As we
have said, Mrs. Mayer's conduct, because of her' anxiety
and desire to be sure that she was upon the right train,
did not, in our view, of itself absolve the Railway Company
from its duty to her as a passenger. True it is that a new
cause, sufficient to produce the injury, may, after the
negligence which is the basis of recovery has occurred,
intervene under such circumstances as to relieve from
liability the one responsible for the original wrong. In
such cases, however, there must be the intervention of a
new and independent cause between the wrong and the
injury. Milwaukee & St. P. Railway Co. v. Kellogg, 94
U. S. 469, 475. The doctrine finds apt illustration in the
case of Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Calhoun,
213 U. S. 1, where a child had been safely handed to a
person standing on the depot platform at which the passenger with the child wished to alight; the train started,
and the third person attempted to place the child back
upon the train while in motion. The child was severely
injured. It appeared, it will be observed, that the child
had been safely deposited at the station and that thd act
of the third person in trying to put the child upon the
train was the intervening cause which rendered the negligence in failing to stop the train or to assist the child
therefrom at the proper station no longer a proper ground
of recovery. Assuming, as we think we must, that Mrs.
Mayer was acting within her rights as a passenger in
undertaking to assure herself that she was upon the right
train, we think the mere fact that she proceeded in the
manner stated was not of itself the intervention of another
and independent cause itself productive of the injury.
Upon the whole record, we find no reason to reverse the
judgment and it is therefore
Affirmed.

