OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

lend no support to the contention now urged on behalf
of the plaintiff in error that Congress intended the act of
1905 to be retroactive in all cases where the work was done
after the passage of the amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

ADAMS v. CITY OF MILWAUKEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
No. 247. Argued April 23, 1913.-Decided May 12, 1913.

The question whether a classification of milk vendors who produce
their milk outside of the city to which they send milk deprives such
producers of the equal protection of the law when there are different
rules for vendors who produce their milk within the city limits has
not been so far foreclosed by prior decisions of this court as to render
its discussion unnecessary; and a motion to dismiss is denied.
Whether rules provided to be made by a police ordinance were properly
promulgated and whether the officer promulgating them had authority so to do are not Federal questions.
Different situations of the objects regulated by a municipal ordinance
may require different regulations.
A classification in a municipal ordinance by which vendors of milk
drawn from cows outside the city are subjected to different regulations from those to which vendors of milk drawn from cows within
the city, is not, provided, as in this case, the regulations are reasonable and proper, a denial of equal protection of the law guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment; and so held as to the milk ordinance
of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The police power of the State is adequate to protect the people against
the sale of impure food such as milk.
An ordinance regulating the sale of food products must be summarily
enforced and the destruction of impure food, such as milk, is the
only available and efficient penalty for its violations and does not
deprive the owner of his property without due process of law; and so

ADAMS v. MILWAUKEE.
228 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

held as to the milk ordinance of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Lieberman
v. Van De Carr, 199 U. S. 552.
This court does not pass upon questions before they have reached a
justiciable stage.
As a provision in a municipal ordinance holding health officers enforcing it harmless for the destruction of offending property "if done in
good faith" may be separable, this court will not determine whether
it is an. unconstitutional taking of property without due process of
law in an action in which it appears that none of plaintiff's goods have.
been or could be destroyed before the state court has construed the
statute in that respect.
144 Wisconsin, 371, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the due process and equal- protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marcus A. Jacobson, with whom Mr. D. S. Tullar
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The ordinance is class legislation and a violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
When adopted and when it went into effect, there were
no regulations in any way controlling the keeping of cows
within the City of Milwaukee and the sale of milk from
such cows except Ordinance No. 43, and the rules and regulations which the Health Commissioner had formulated
under its authority some time subsequent to the beginning
of this action and which, even if properly promulgated,
were radically different from the restrictions regulating
the selling of milk taken from cows outside of the City of
Milwaukee.
The health officer is an administrative officer and has
no power or authority to enact laws. See Adams v.
.Burdge, 95 Wiscohsin, 390, which is practically conclusive
that the health officer of the City of Milwaukee had no
authority to formulate any rule requiring the application
of the tuberculin test to cows kept within the City of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228 U. S.

Milwaukee as a condition precedent to 'the issuance of a

permit.
The health officer is a purely administrative officer
who cannot enact new laws, and pan only exercise reasonable discretion in the carrying out of ordinances which the

common council, by virtue of its delegated police powers,
does enact. Potts v. Breen, 167 Illinois, 67; Dowling v.
Lancashire Ins. Co., 92 Wisconsin, 63; Hurst v. Warner,
102 Michigan, 238; Schaezlein v. Cabaniss, 135 California,
466.
The conditions and penalties surrounding the keeping
of cows and the sale of milk w¢ithin thq City of Milwaukee
were radically different from those suriounding the keeping
of cows outside thereof and the sale of milk from such
cows within the city. State ex rel. Greenwood v. Nolan,
122 N. W. Rep. 255; State v. Nelson, 66 Minnesota, 166.
While the police powers of the State and of the municipality are very broad, in the exercise of such police powers
the common council must be reasonable. State v. Redmon,
134 Wisconsin, 89; Kellogg v. Currens, 111 Wisconsin,
431.
The classification and distinction attempted in the Milwaukee milk ordinances are arbitrary, made for the purpose
of discrimination only, and are entirely. without reason or
necessity so far as the accomplishment of the object or purpose in hand is concerned-that is, the prevention and
spread of tuberculosis within the City of Milwaukee because of the sale of fresh milk.,
The ordinance is void and unconstitutional and denies
to the appellant and others similarly situated the equal
protection of the law, first, because the Health Commissioner of the City of Milwaukee is an administrative officer
and has no power or authority to formulate rules or regulations which in their nature are legislative; second, because,
even though it be assumed for the sake of the Qrgument
that the Commissioner had such power, the same was not

ADAMS v. MILWAUKEE.
.228 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

properly exercised, but discriminations and differences
relative to the regulations for the keeping of cows and
the sale of milk within the city still exist, even though
the rules formulated are valid and in full force and effect.
The ordinance is unconstitutionl because § 24 authorizes the taking of private property without due process
of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is the declared intention of the defendants to confiscate and destroy all milk shipped to the City of Milwaukee by this plaintiff and others similarly situated
where the cows from which such milk is drawn are not
tuberculin tested, even though the plaintiff maintains a
healthy herd of cattle, keeps his stables wholesome and
clean and distributes pure and wholesome mnilk in the City
of Milwaukee so far as he knows without the use of the
tuberculin test.
Milk of this kind cannot be confiscated and destroyed
simply because it is not accompanied with a certificate of
a veterinary or of some person authorized by the Live
Stock Sanitary Board of the State of Wisconsin, as provided by said ordinance, certifying that the tuberculin
test has been applied. That part of the city ordinance
which authorizes the confiscation and destruction of such
milk as the couft finds this plaintiff has been shipping,
and desires to continue shipping, to Milwaukee, is unconstitutional and void. Wilcox v. Hemming, 58 Wisconsin,
148; Gosselink v. Campbell, 4 Iowa, 296.
The ordinance in question makes no provision for the
assessment of damages for the destruction of the milk,
and even goes so far as to provide that if said milk is destroyed under said ordinance, if done in good faith, the
party destroying the same shall be held harmless in damage therefor in any suit or demand made. This particular
portion is clearly unconstitutional and illegal. Lowe v.
Conroy, 120 Wisconsin, 151. Nor is this frivolous. Jacob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

son v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, and Lawton v. Steele,
152 U. S. 136, distinguished.
We have no quarrel with that proposition, but submit
that such authorities as have held that the municipal authorities may confiscate and destroy certain instrumentalities which have been put to illegal uses base their decisions upon the ground that, by statute or ordinance, such
instrumentalities have been declared nuisances and may,
therefore, be destroyed without hearing or notice. Bittenhaus v. Johnston, 92 Wisconsin, 588.
To destroy milk presumably pure and in good condition,
without any declaration on the part of the legislature or
the common council declaring the same to be a public
nuisance, is a confiscation of property without due process
of law. Edson v. Crangle, 62 Oh. St. 49; Note to Daniels
v. Homer, 139 N. Car. 219. See also McConnell v. McKillip, 65 L. R. A. 610.
The confiscation and destruction of presumably pure
and wholesome milk merely because the cows from which
the same has been drawn were not tuberculin tested, without hearing or test or adjudication, is a taking of prop-.
erty without due process of law and a violation of the
Constitution of the United States.
Mr. Daniel W. Hoan, with whom Mr. John J. Cook was
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin sustaining the validity of an ordinance of the
common council of the City of Milwaukee regulating the
sale of milk. 1
No person shall bring into the City of Milwaukee for sale, either
by wagon cart, train, or any other kind of vehicle, or keep, have or
offer for sale, or sell, in said city, any milk or cream drawn from cows

ADAMS v. MILWAUKEE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The ordinance provides that no milk drawn from cows
outside of the city shall be brought into the city, contained
in cans, bottles or packages, unless they be marked with
a legible stamp, tag or impression bearing the name and
address of the owner of the cows and unless such owner
shall, within one year from the passage of the ordinance,
file in the office of the Commissioner of Health a certificate
of a duly licensed veterinary surgeon or other person given
authority by the State Livestock Sanitary Board to make
outside of said city, contained in cans, bottles or packages, unless such
cans, bottles or other packages containing such milk or cream for sale,
shall be marked with a legible stamp, tag or impression bearing the
name of the owner of such cows from which such milk was drawn,
giving his place of business, including name of city, street and number,
or other proper address, and unless the owner or owners of such cows
shall, within one year from the passage of this ordinance, file in the
office of the Commissioner of Health a certificate of a duly licensed
veterinary surgeon, or of any other person given authority by the
State Livestock Sanitary Board to make tuberculin tests, stating that
such cows have been tested with tuberculin and found free from tuberculosis or other, contagious diseases. Such certificate shall give a number which has been permanently attached to each cow, and a description sufficiently accurate for identification, stating the date and place
of such examination, and such certificate shall be good for one year from
the date of its issuance. Such certificate, however, must be renewed
annually and filed in the office of the Commissioner of Health, and each
such certificate shall show in each case that the animals from which
such milk was drawn are free from tuberculosis or other contagious
diseases. All milk and cream from sick and diseased cows, or cows
fed on refuse or slops from distilleries, or vinegar factories, unless such
refuse or slops be mixed with other dry sanitary grain or food to a consistency of a thick mush, or other than good, wholesome food, or milk
that is dangerous or that may affect or be detrimental to life or health,
or that has been adulterated, or is below the standard fixed by § 17
of this chapter, or which does not conform to all other provisions of
this chapter shall, upon discovery thereof, be confiscated, forfeited and
immediately destroyed by or under the direction of the Commissioner
of Health, bacteriologist, or officer detailed, who shall, if done in good
faith, be held harmless in damage therefor, in any suit or demand made.
Ordinance of.March 30, 1908, § 24.

voL. ccxxviii-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

tuberculin tests, stating that such cows have been found
free from tuberculosis or other contagious diseases. The
certificate is required to give a number which has been
permanently attached to each cow and a description sufficient for identification. The certificate must be renewed
annually and must show that the cows are free from
tuberculosis or other contagious diseases.
A short time before the ordinance was to go into effect
this suit was brought against the city and Dr. Bading, its
Health. Commissioner, to -restrain the- enforcement of the
ordinance. After a hearing judgment was entered dismissing the complaint, and the judgment was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State.
The plaintiff (we shall so 'call him) alleged that he
brought the suit for himself and all other producers of
and dealers in pure, wholesome milk, as it involved a
question of common interest to many persons. He alleged
also the following: He is a farmer, living about seventeen
miles from Milwaukee, and maintains a large dairy herd
of cattle and is enjoying a profitable dairy business,
shipping milk into Milwaukee to certain retail milk dealers'
in the city. His herd is healthy, so far as he is able to know
or judge. He keeps his stables wholesome and clean, and
if his cows become sick or affected in any way with any
infectious or contagious disease, so far as he is able to
learn or discover by giving careful attention to his herd
in its feeding and care, he removes such animals immediately. So far as he is able to discover, his herd' i.absolutely free from disease, and the milk he offers for sale
in Milwaukee, or 'will offer for sale, is and will be, so far.
as he is able to discover; absolutely pure and wholesome;
and all that proves to be impure and unwholesome upon
being tested in the usual and customary manner will be
withdrawn from sale.
Bading, as Commissioner of Health of the City of Milwaukee, threatens, on and after April 1, 1909, to execute

ADAMS v. MILWAUKEE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the ordinance and confiscate, forfeit and destroy all milk
shipped by plaintiff and other producers to be sold in
Milwaukee contrary to the requirements of the ordinance,
unless restrained; and if he does so irreparable injury will
be caused plaintiff and such other producers and make
their business of maintaining a dairy absolutely unprofitable as well as impracticable.
The tuberculin test required by the ordinance is, .as
plaintiff is informed and believes, wholly unreliable, untrustworthy and entirely worthless so far as being a guide
or protection to the public as to whether or not the cows
tested by it are free from the germs of tuberculosis or any
other infectious disease.
The milk threatened to be confiscated, shipped to
Milwaukee for sale by plaintiff and other producers, when
pure and wholesome is not dangerous to public health
because perchance the owners of the cows producing the
milk have not had the cows tested or have failed to secure
the certificate of a veterinary surgeon or other person as
required by the ordinance.
It is alleged that the constitution of the State and the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States are violated.
A motion to dismiss is made on the ground that the
questions in this case, under the decisions of this court,
are so far foreclosed'as to make their discussion unnecessary. The motion is overruled.
.The particular contention of plaintiff is that the ordinance violates the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States because it discriminates between milk drawn from cows outside of Milwaukee and
milk drawn from cows within the city. Therefore the
charge is that the ordinance does not affect all persons
alike. If we regard the territorial distinction merely, that
is, milk from cows outside and milk from cows within the
city, there is certainly no discrimination. All producers

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

outside of the city are treated alike. Plaintiff identifies
himself in interest with all of them and sues for all of
them. He therefore seeks grounds of comparison other
than the locality of the dairies and urges that the discrimination exists in the difference between the tests to
which cows kept outside of the city are subject and the
test to which cows within the city are subject.
. To sustain his contention plaintiff in error cites an
ordinance of the city wiich provides that no cows or cattle
shall be kept in the city without permiit from the Corn-'
missioner of Health, except at places provided or established for purposes of slaughtering, and that the stables
and places where such animals may be shall be kept at all
times in a cleanly and wholesome cndition and properly
ventilated, and that no person shall allow any animal to
be therein which is affected with any contagious arid
pestilential disease.
This ordinance was supplemented by various rules made
by the Health Commissioner in regard to cleanliness of
the stabling 'of the animals, keeping from them persons
infected or who have been exposed to disease, requiring
applications for permits to be accompanied by the certificate of the veterinary surgeon showing that the animals
have been tested by the tuberculin test and shown by said
test to be free from tuberculosis, and that they are not
affected with any infectious or contagious disease. If the
animals become subsequently infected they are to be removed from the city or disposed of in the manner provided
by law.
Three contentions are, notwithstanding, made-(1) The
rules were promulgated after this suit was begun. (2) The
Commissioner had no authority to make the rules.
(3) They are radically different rules from the rules as
to cows kept outside of the city.
The third contention is the only one that involves a
Federal question. The others involve local questions only,

ADAMS v. MILWAUKEE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the. Court.

and the Supreme Court of the State decided that the sale
of milk drawn from diseased cows is forbidden within the
city; that the health officer may remove a diseased animal
to a place where it will not spread infection, and that
he may apply any known test to determine whether the
animal is afflicted with tuberculosis. Inspection and care,
therefore, can be applied to the animals within the city,
and it is applied also to the milk drawn from such animals.
It cannot be applied to animals kept outside of the city.
It can only be applied to the milk drawn from them. The
court noticed this difference and the difference in the
regulations made necessary by it. "There are brought
into Milwaukee," the court said, "from outside of the
city about 28,000 gallons of milk every day drawn from
more than 10,000 cows. It would be practically impossible to subject this quantity of milk to a microscopic
examination or to subject it to what is called in the'evidence centrifugal thst, which would also require the use of
a microscope although not to the same extent. Each
animal within the city can be subjected to an individual
examination, a microscopic test of samples of its milk,
an inspection as to its condition of health, and the tuberculin test applied directly under the orders of the Health
Commissioner. This is a sufficient basig for separate
legislation relating to milk shipped into the city. There
are other regulations covering the sale of milk drawn from
cows kept withii the city."
We concur in the conclusion of the court. The different
situations of the animals require different regulations.
Cows kept outside of the city cannot be inspected by the
health officers; they can be inspected by a licensed veterinary surgeon and. a certificate of the fact and the identity
of the cows and the milk authenticated as required by
the ordinance. The requirements are not unreasonable;
they are properly adaptive to the -conditions. They are
not discriminatory; they have proper relation to the pur-

S582

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

pose to be accomplished. That purpose and the necessity
for it we cannot question. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197
U. S. 11; Laurel Hill Cemetery v. San Francisco,216 U. S.
358; Mutual Loan Co. v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225; Purity
Extract & Tonic Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192; Crossman v.
Lurman, 192 U. S. 189; New Orleans Gas Light Co. v.
DrainageComm. of New Orleans,,197 U. S. 453.
In St. John v. New York, 201 U. S. 633, we said that in.
considering the classification of a law, not only its final
purpose must be regarded, but the mans of its administration. The case is quite in point. There regulations
were attacked as discriminating between producing and
non-producing vendors of milk with a view to securing its
freedom from adulteration; and adulterated milk was defined by law to be that to which something was added or
from which the cream was removed or was naturally deficient or takenfrom cows fed on certain things or when
in certain conditions. The regulations were directed to
the inspection of samples of milk from the.entire herd. A
producing vendor could exempt himself from the penalties
of the law by proving that his milk was in the same condition as when it left the herd. The non-producer had
not that privilege. St. John, who was a non-producing
vendor, offered to prove such fact as to the milk he offered
for sale, but the proof was rejected and he was convicted
of violating the law. The conviction was sustained against
his attack of discrimination in the law. In that case, as in
this, a disregard of the regulations was sought to be justified by the assertion of the purity of the milk offered for
sale.
Plaintiff also contends that the provision of the ordinance which requires milk that does not conform to its
requirements to be confiscated, forfeited and immediately
destroyed, takes his property without due process of law.
To sustain his contention, he assumes the purity of his
milk, though it has not been tuberculin tested, and then

ADAMS v. MILWAUKEE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

asserts that "milk of this kind cannot be confiscated and
destroyed simply because it is not accompanied with a
certificate of a veterinary surgeon or of some person authorized by the Livestock Sanitary Board of the State of
Wisconsin, as provided by said ordinance, certifying that
the tuberculin test has been applied." But plaintiff overlooks the allegation of his complaint. His allegation is,.
not that his cows are free from infectious or contagious
disease, but only "so far as he is able to learn or discover."
And the allegation of his willingness to withdraw tainted
milk from sale depends upon the same contingent knowledge or information. He overlooks also the findings of
the courts against the sufficiency of his information and
their demonstration of the necessity of the tests established
by the ordinance. But even if the necessity of the tests
be not demonstrated and the beliefs which induced them
may be disputed, they cannot be pronounced illegal. In
Laurel Hill Cemetery v. San Francisco,supra, we expressed
the deference which must be accorded to local beliefs, saying that we would not overthrow an exercise of police power
based on them to protect health merely because of our
adherence to a contrary belief. It will be observed, therefore, that the contention of plaintiff is without foundation
and that the ordinance is not an arbitrary and unreasonable deprivation of property in a wholesome food, but a
regulation having the purpose of and found to be necessary
for the protection of the public health.
The police power of the State must be declared adequate
to such a desired purpose. It is a remedy made necessary.
by plaintiff acting in, disregard .of the other provisions -of
the -ordinance, that is, failing to have his cows tested
and their milk authenticated as prescribed. The city was'
surely not required to let the milk pass into consumption
and spread its possible contagion. This seems to be the
alternative for which plaintiff contends, and might occur.
All nilk produced outside of the city had amounted, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Supreme Court said, to 3,500 eight-gallon cans daily.
Criminal pains and penalties would not prevent the milk
from going into consumption. To stop it at the boundaries
of the city would be its practical destruction. To hold it
there to await judicial proceedings against it would be,
as the Supreme Court said, to leave it at the depots "reeking and rotting, a breeding place for pathogenic bacteria
and insects during the period necessary for notice to the
owner, and resort to judicial proceedings."
We agree with the court that the destruction of the milk
was the only available and efficient penalty for the violation of the ordinance. The case, therefore, comes within
the principle of the cases we have cited and of Lieberman
v. Van De Carr, 199 U. S. 552. In other words, as the
milk might be prohibited from being sold, at the discretion
of the Board of Health, and even prohibited from entering
the city (Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137), a violation of the
conditions upon which it might be sold involves as a
penalty its destruction. Plaintiff sets up his beliefs and
judgment against those of government and attempts to
defeat its regulations, and thereby makes himself and his
property a violator of the law. In North American Storage
Co. v. Chicago, 211 U. S. 306, 315, we said, by Mr. Justice Peckham, that food which is not fit to be eaten, "if
kept for sale or in danger of being sold, is in itself a nuisance, and a nuisance of the most dangerous kind, involving, as it does, the health, if not the lives, of persons who
may eat it." And it was decided that in such case the food
could be seized and destroyed, and that a provision for a
hearing before seizure and condemnation was not necessary. It was also decided tlat the owner of the food had
his remedy against the arbitrary action of the health
officers.
It is, however, said that plaintiff is precluded from such
remedy because the ordinance expressly provides that the
health officers "shall be held harmless in damages" for

BUGAJEWITZ v. ADAMS.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

their acts "if done in good faith." It may be that that
portion of the ordinance is separable if invalid. The
Supreme Court of the State said it was not necessary to
pass upon the provision. What view it might entertain it
did not clearly express. In determining the validity of the
provision the court said that it "must assume that the
ordinance is otherwise valid," and that it could not presume that plaintiff would disregard the ordinance held
by it "to be valid or place his property in a condition to
invite its destruction." "Self-inflicted damage," the court
added, "is not recoverable. The open judicial inquiry
is in such case: Was the damage self-inflicted?" In other
words, as we understand the-court, a question upon that
portion of the ordinance has not yet reached a justiciable
stage. There is certainly no destruction of the milk impending. Indeed, according to the allegations of the complaint, there is a threat only, to be executed if plaintiff
should take milk into the city, which, though he alleges
he is anxious -o do, he may not do.
Judgment affirmed.

BUGAJEWITZ v. ADAMS, UNITED STATES IMMIGRATION INSPECTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 239. Submitted April 21, 1913.-Decided May 12, 1913.
Congress has power to order the deportation of aliens whose presence in
the country it deems hurtful; and this applies to prostitutes regardless of the time they have been here.
The determination of whether an alien falls within the class that Congress had declared to be undesirable, by facts which might constitute
a crime under local law, is not a conviction of crime, nor is deportation a punishment.

