SUSQUEHANNA COAL CO. v. SOUTH AMBOY.
228 U. S.

665

Opinion of the Court.

SUSQUEHANNA COAL COMPANY v. MAYOR AND
COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH AMBOY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 301.

Argued May 6, 7, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Where the trade in an article can only be accommodated by storage
at some point in transit from the point of shipment in one State to
final destination in another, and there is a business purpose and advantage in the delay during which the article secures the protection
of the State where it is stored, there is a cessation of interstate commerce and the article is subject to the dominion of, and taxation by,
the State. Bacon v. Illinois;227 U. S. 504.
Coal shipped from Pennsylvania to South Amboy, New Jersey, and
intended for further shipment to ports in other States or countries,
but not definitely determined, and stored while awaiting orders or .
means of transportation for orders already received, held that there
was in this case more than mere incidental interruption and the coal
was subject to taxation by the municipality within whose jurisdiction it was stored.
Qu&sre, whether in New Jersey a decision as to the legality of a tax
for one year is res judicataas to same grounds in regard to a tax for
a later year on the same property.

THE facts, which involve the right of the State to tax

coal brought from another State while it is awaiting shipment to ports in other States and countries, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Alan H. Strong, with whom Mr. James B. Vredenburgh was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. FredericM. P. Pearse for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Bill in equity to restrain the collection of taxes levied
by the City of South Amboy upon coal belonging to plain-

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

tiff in error on the ground that the coal was in transit from
points in the State of Pennsylvania through the State of
New Jersey to destinations outside of the latter State and
being, as it is alleged, in interstate commerce, the taxes
on it were' illegally levied because in contravention of the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
Plaintiff in error is a Pennsylvania corporation and a
dealer in coal, buying three-fifths of what it sid in the
years 1906, 1907 and 1908 and producing two-fifths itself.
Plaintiff in error shipped its coal from its mines in Pennsylvania to New York and the States east thereof by the
Pennsylvania Railroad across New Jersey, to leave the
latter State at Harsimus Cove, Greenville or South Amboy
piers, the termini of the road on New York harbor. In
the year 1906 it shipped 1,582,000 tons of coal; in 1907 it
shipped 2,010,200 tons, and in 1908 it shipped 2,050,500.
Of these amounts, 3 2 %, 4 2% and 6%, respectively,
were unloaded at South Amboy. The balance of the
amounts shipped passed through Harsimus Cove and
Greenville piers. The cars, on arrival at the latter points,
were floated across the harbor and transferred to railroads
on the opposite side. The bills of lading for the coal thus
shipped were made out to designated purchasers as consignees; the coal which arrived at South Amboy was consigned to plaintiff in error at such place and was intended
to be transferred to bottoms at tidewater and shipped to
States east of New Jersey. "This coal," we quote from
the opinion of the District Court, "was forwarded from
the mines on orders from the complainant's Philadelphia
agents who issued such orders upon requisitions made
upon them from complainants' New York agents. Neither
the agents at the mines nor at Philadelphia knew for
which particular customers the coal thus forwarded to
South Amboy, was intended. Complainant had a number
of regular customers east of New Jersey, to whom it
promised to make deliveries on monthly contracts: the

SUSQUEHANNA COAL CO. v. SOUTH AMBOY.
228 U. S.

667

Opinion of the Court.

exact requirements of such customers, in tonnage and
kind of coal, were known only to the New York agents.
These agents from time to time totaled such requirements
plus other orders for coal, and issued their requisition
'based upon such totals, to the Philadelphia agents. Such
requirements and the shipments made thereunder, varied
in tonnage and kind of coal. At South Amboy complainant had an agent who, upon the orders of the New York
agents, superintended the loading upon such bottoms of
the kind and amount of coal required for designated customers. When so loaded, the master of the bottoms issued
bills of lading in the name of the complainant as shipper,
and particular persons as consignees. These bills of
lading were sent to comhplainant's New York agents,
whereupon the latter made out invoices to the consignees.
Up to the time of loading the bottoms, the title of the coal
was in complainant.
If, upon arrival of the coal at South Amboy, bottoms
were on hand to take the kind of coal arriving, such coal
was transferred from the cars to the bottoms. If not, such
coal was dumped into a coal depot or storage yard of
the railroad company, located about two thousand feet
from the piers, equipped with derricks for the loading and
unloading of coal, and where the different kinds of coal of
the complainant were put into piles, which would be subsequently transferred into bottoms; not necessarily the
first bottoms arriving as the preference was given to coal
subsequently arriving and still in cars. In the year 1906
the expense of dumping the coal from the cars and its
subsequent transfer into bottoms was borne by the railroad company. Subsequently, such expense was borne by
complainant."
It appears from the testimony that the amount of coal
in the depot or storage yard at South Amboy varied. "It
went," it was testified, "to 10,000 tons, but it ranges from
20,000 up to 150,000 tons."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

The conclusion of the District Court was that by the
storage of coal, plaintiff in error "obtained two beneficial
results. First, cars arriving when no bottoms were on
hand could be released and demurrage charges saved;
second, when bottoms arrived and no cars were on hand
containing the kinds of coal desired, such vessels could be
loaded from the piles, resulting in a saving of time in the
departure of such bottoms." In other words there was
something more than the submission to delay in transportation and the acceptance of its consequences. The
situation was made a facility of business, a business conducted through agents and employ6s. And, it will be
observed, there was valuable property kept in the State
represented by the coal, varying in quantity from 10,000
tons to 150,000 tons. There was something more, therefore, than an incidental interruption of the continuity of
its journey through the State.
The principal witness in the case for plaintiff in error,
assenting to the testimony of its vice-president given
before the State Board of Equalization, testified that
without regard to any orders, even anticipating the market,
the attempt was to keep a certain amount Of coal on hand
at South Amboy. This anticipation, the witnesses explained, was an anticipation of orders from regular customers in the near future, the witness saying that while
there was no order for it, still there was an implied order;
"that is, an implied order and a regular condition of trade,
and to supply that trade we keep that coal there. .
The condition was, to take care of the trade that was
regular, and this coal was not kept there for that purpose,
it was there from an overplus, or inability to load it in
boats, and therefore was to fill these implied contracts
and orders-they weren't orders, but were implied contracts." This is confusing, but it is manifest that the
coal was used to fill anticipated orders, orders not immediately made but, it may be, certain to be made. It

SUSQUEHANNA COAL CO. v. SOUTH AMBOY.
228 U. S.

669

Opinion of the Court.

does not appear how they could be filled, uncertain in
time as they were, except from the accumulations at South
Amboy. Indeed it is in the testimony that without such
accumulations the orders might strike a period when there
were no cars and no coal and then customers would suffer.
It is clear, we repeat, that such trade could only be accommodated through the storage of coal somewhere, and
plaintiff in error availed itself of the conditions to put the
storage in New Jersey.
The coal, therefore, was not in actual movement through
the State; it was at rest in the State, and was to be handled
and distributed from there. Therefore, the principles
expressed in General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211, and
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504, are applicable to it. The
products in neither of those cases were destined for sale
in the States where stored; the delay there was to be temporary, a postponement of their transportation to their
destinations. There was, however, a business purpose and
advantage in the delay which was availed of, and while it
was availed of, the products secured the protection of the
State. In both cases it was held that there was a cessation
of interstate commerce and subjection to the dominion
of the State.
In Bacon v. Illinois, the grain which was taxed had been
shipped by the original owners, who were residents of
southern and western States, under contracts for its
transportation to New York and Philadelphia and other
eastern cities, with a reservation to 'the owners to remove
it from the cars at Chicago for certain temporary purposes "or change the ownership, consignee or destination
thereof." The grain, while in transit, was purchased by
Bacon, he succeeding to the rights of the vendors. Upon
arrival of the grain at Chicago he exercised the right to
remove it from the cars to his private elevator to avail
himself of the privilege reserved. The privilege being
exercised, he turned the grain over to the railroad corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

panies for transportation in accordance with original
contracts. After commenting upon the power he had
over the grain while in Chicago, we said (p. 516), "He had
established a local facility in Chicago for his own benefit
and while, through its employment, the grain was there
at rest, there was no reason why it should not be included
with his other property within the State in an assessment
for taxation which was made in the usual way without
discrimination." For this conclusion cases were cited.
It was further said (p. 517), "The property was held
within the State for purposes deemed by the owner to be
beneficial;
In General Oil Co v. Crain, oil contained in tanks at
'Memphis, Tennessee, was subject to an inspection tax.
The oil was shipped to Memphis from producing and
refining points in Ohio and Pennsylvania and handled in
tank cars and other receptacles to be forwarded to customers in Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi, in which
States the oil company had many regular customers from
whom it always had on hand many unfilled orders for
oil to be delivered as soon as possible or convenient. At
Memphis the oil company maintained two tanks, one of
which was plainly marked: "Oil already sold in Arkansas,
Louisiana and Mississippi," and which remained in
Memphis only long enough (a few days) to be properly
distributed according to the orders therefor. The other
tank or vessel was for oil sold in those States and kept
separate and apart until orders should be received from
customers in those States. The oil was never sold otherwise than upon such orders. We said of this situation that
the company was doing business in the State and that its
property was receiving the protection of the State. Its
oil was not in movement through the State. To the
contention that the oil was only there for distribution and
to fulfill orders already received, we said (p. 231), "It
required storage there--the maintenance of the means of

SUSQUEHANNA COAL CO. v. SOUTH AMBOY.
228 U. S.

671

Opinion of the Court.

storage, of putting it in and taking it from storage."
In that case and in Bacon v. Illinois we considered the
cases relied on here by plaintiff in error in which particular
exercises of the state power were decided to be in conflict
with the paramount authority of Congress over interstate
commerce. We need not again review the cases. We are
not unmindful of their principle and reasoning and the
difficulty presented in them and presented here of marking the line of dominion between the National and state
jurisdiction. The one is as necessary as the other to be
preserved.
It is contended by defendant in error that the basis of
the taxes of all three years is the same and that the taxes
of 1906 were attacked by proceedings in the New Jersey
state courts, the same grounds of illegality being asserted
there as here (Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 76
N. J. L' 412; 77 id. 796), and that therefore the decision of
the state court is res judicata. The views we have expressed make it unnecessary to pass upon the contention
or to consider-the question not being raised-whether
the decision as to the taxes in 1906 is an adjudication also
under the laws of the State of the taxes of 1907 and 1908.
See New Orleans v. Citizens Bank, 167 U. S. 371; Deposit
Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499, 573; Citizens Bank v.
Parker, 192 U. S. 73.
Judgment affirmed.

