OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

of the composition were sufficient, had the law been rightly
applied, to have prevented the approval of the composition,
such concession would afford no ground for holding that
because one case in matter of law was erroneously decided,
that such decision should conclusively establish the duty
to erroneously decide another and distinct case. If, on
the other hand, it be conceded that the composition was
rightfully approved, as the determination of that subject
did not under the very terms of the statute involve passing
upon the separate and distinct claim of creditors to be
exempt from the operation of the discharge, it results
that in no view of the case is there merit in the contention
as to res judicata. The contentions urged in many forms
based upon the recitals in the order of 'confirmation of
the composition made conformably to the statute as to
the absence of fraud or other wrongdoing, etc., is but a
reiteration of the contention as to res judicata which we
have shown to be without foundation.
Affirmed.

PLESTED v. ABBEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 156.

Argued January 31, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

'Subordinate officers of the Land Department are under the control,
and their acts are subject to the review, of their official superiorsthe Commissioner of the General Land Office and ultimately the
Secretary of the Interior.
Until the legal title to public land passes from the Government, inquiry as to all equitable rights comes within the cognizapce of the
Land Department. Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 433, 476.
Congress has placed the Land Department under -the supervision
and control of the Secretary of the Interior, a special tribunal with

PLESTED v. ABBEY.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

large administrative and quasi-judicial functions, and subordinate
officials should not be called upon to put the*court in possession of
their views and defend their instructions from the Commissioner
and convert the contest before the Land Department into one before
the court. Litchfield v. Register, 9 Wall. 575.

THE facts, which involve the right under the laws
of the United States to purchase coal lands belonging
to the United States, and the jurisdiction of the courts
over the officers of the Land Department prior to issuing
of the patent, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jesse G. Northcutt and Mr. William C. Prentiss,
with whom Mr. Robert.H. Widdicombe and Mr. A. Watson
McHendrie were on the brief, for appellants:
The rights of the appellants, as well as the duty of the
appellees, are to be found in § 2347, Rev, Stat., fixing
twenty dollars per acre.
That statute is not ambiguous. Its language admits
of but one interpretation. If the receiver or register,
or both, demand more than twenty dollars they are prohibiting the exercise of the right which Congress has conferred and therefore acting beyond and contrary to the
law. Being outside of the pale of the law they are not
entitled to its protection, even though the rule exists
that they shall not be interfered with by the courts
when exercising their official functions within the law.
The rule that so long as the title of the land remains
in the Government the officers of the Land Department
will not be interfered with iu the discharge of their official
duties, unless those duties are of a character puiely ministerial and involving no exercise of judgment or discretion
(Litchfield v. Richards, 9 Wall. 575) has as the converse
of this proposition that if the duty involVed is purely
ministerial, not involving the exercise of discretion, the
courts on proper application will interfere for the protection of individual rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

228 U. S.

The courts have interfered to prevent the infliction
of injury by other Federal executive officers. Why the
sacred immunity of officers of the Land Department?
The question herein involved calls for no distinction
between discretionary and ministerial duties. Appellants
do -iot seek to restrain the discharge of a duty, or to enforce the discharge of a duty, but simply to restrain the
defendants from doing an unlawful and wrongful thing,
which if permitted to be done inflicts a wrong and injury
upon the complainants here, for which they have no
plain or adequate remedy, if, in fact, they have any remedy
at all, except the interference of a court of equity by its
preventive mandate.
Tlie question is not whether the act is discretionary or
niii isrial, but whether it is lawful or unlawful. Courts
of equity will restrain the officers from exercising their
duties beyond the pale of the law just as they do private
individuals. 2 Story's Equity, § 955 (12thed.) ; 3 Pomeroy,
§ 4340 (3d ed.); Noble v. Union R. L. & R. Co., 147 U. S.
165; Board of Liquidation&c. v. McComb, 92 U. S. 531, 54 1;
LaChapallev. Buffs Indian Agt., 69 Fed. Rep. 481; American School v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; New Orleans Natl.
Bank N'. Merchant, 18 Fed. Rep. 851; Teal v. Felton, 12
How. 284; Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276.
If the order of the Department under which the defendants here claim to act is not clearly within the power
granted to the Interior Department, it is not law and has
no binding force or effect. United States v. United Verde
Copper Co., 196 U. S. 207; Ballinger v. Frost, 216 U. S.
240.
As to whether the act is discretionary or ministerial,
see Roberts v. United States, 176 U. S. 221.
The Department can exercis6 only such power in making
regulations as is conferred upon it by statute. § 161,
Rev. Stat.
As to specific authority to make regulations concern-

PLESTED v. ABBEY.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

ing coal lands, see §§ 2347, 2351, Rev. Stat. Even if
Congress in enacting § 2347, fixing the price at not less
than $20.00 per acre, intended to reserve the right to
charge more, it has nowhere vested in the Interior or any
other executive department the power to fix a greater
or any other price. Such power could not be exercised
without an express delegation thereof. And see as to intent of Congress in this respect, United States v. The
Trinidad Coal & Coke Co., 137 U. S. 160, construing the
acts of July 1, 1864, and March 3, 1873. See also departmental regulation of July 31, 1882, and 1 L. D. 689, par.
12, fixing the price at $10-$20, depending upon distance
frdm railways.
This has been universally the construction of the Department as shown by the following cases: In re Foster,
2 L. D. 730-733; Re. Colton, 10 L. D. 422; Re Conant,
29 L. D. 637; Secretary's Instructions, 1 L. D. 540; Re
Largent, 13 L. D. 396; Re Burgess, 24 L. D. 11.
The construction placed upon a statute by an executive
department and followed for a term of years .is entitled
to great weight, as repeatedly held by this court. United
States v. Finnell, 185 U. S. 236.
The construction thus placed upon the statute will be
respected by the courts unless obnoxious to the plain
provisions of the statute, and if doubtful will not be
overruled except for cogent reason. Edwards v. Darby,
12 Wh. 206; United States v. Fillbrick, 120 U. S. 52; United
States v. Alabama G. S. R., 142 U. S. 615.
The Executive had no right to withdraw these lands
from entry. United States v. Fitzgerald, 15 Pet. 421;
United States v. Tichenor, 12 Fed. Rep. 423.
Where parties have lavfully tendered their money to
the Department and the tender is wrongfully rejected,
the rights of the applicants are the same as though the
money had been accepted. Ballinger v. Frost, supra.
The withdrawal under the authorities above cited

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

228 U. S.

was inoperative to reserve the lands from entry. Osborne
v. Froyseth, 216 U. S. 571.
None of the constitutional powers vested in'the President
include a delegation to him of control over the public
lands. If, then, he has any power over the public lands,
it must be found in the acts of Congress. Northern Pac.
R. R. Co. v. Davis, 19 L. D. 87; Titamore v. So. Pac. R. Co.,
19 L. D. 249; Instructions, 33 L. D. 104; Fort Boise Hay
Reservation, 6 L. D. 16; United States v. Blendaner, 122
Fed. Rep. 703; Hewitt v. Schultez, 180 U. S. 139; So. Pac.
v. Bell, 183 U. S. 675.
The state courts had no jurisdiction of the subjectmatter; they are Without power to issue process against
a Federal officer where, as here, the subject of the suit
is inquiry into the legality of acts done by him in the
transaction of strictly Federal Government business.
McClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598; Slocum v. Maybery,
2 Wheat. 1; Re Ferguson, 9 Johns. 239; Hill v. Confederate
States, 38 Alabama, 461.
As the state courts have no jurisdiction in this case,
the Federal court, sitting as such, has exclusive jurisdiction. Globe Newspaper Co. v. Walker, 210 U. S. 356;
The Ira M. Hedges, 218 U. S. 264.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cobb, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Bullitt was on the brief, for appellees:
It appears on the face of the bill that the title to the
land sought to be acquired is in the United States, and
that the proc-edings to acquire that title are still in fieri,
in the only forum, i. e., the Land Department, appointed
by law to adjudicate such matters, involving, as they do,
the exercise of judgment and discretion; and that the
courts are, therefore, without jurisdiction to interfere in
equity or at law, by review or otherwise, with the exercise
of that judgment and discretion. Brown v. Hitchcock,
173 U. S. 433, 476, 478; Knight v. Land Association, 142

PLESTED v. ABBEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 161; Litchfield v. Register and Receiver, 9 Wall. 575;
Naganab v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473; Oregon v. Hitchcock,
202 U. S. 60; Roberts v. United States, 176 U. S. 221;
Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683; Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock,
190 U. S. 316; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 373, 396.
Were it otherwise, that is, if the local officers, the defendants in this suit, owe merely a plain ministerial duty which
they are neglecting to perform, the remedy is at law, in
mandamus and not in equity.
It further appears, on the face of the bill, that complainants, if they were wronged by the action of the register and
receiver (the defendants), have not exhausted their remedy
by resort to the process authorized by law and accorded
by the regulations of the Lafid Department.
The action of the local land officers in requiring the
payment of the price fixed by the Land Department was
in accordance with the law. Binns v. United States, 194
U. S. 486, 495; Commonwealth v. Brown, 210 Pa. St. 29;
Drake v. The State, 5 Tex. App. 649; Hankins v. The
People, 106 Illinois, 628, 634; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S.
581, 601; Rusch v. The City of Davenport, 6 Iowa, 443,
454; Stewart v. Griswold, 134 Massachusetts, 391; Stewart
v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 38 N. J. Law, 505, 517; Stimson
v. Pond, 23 Fed. Cas. No. 13455; United States v. Freight
Association, 166 U. S. 290; United States v. Trinidad Coal
and Coking Co., 137 U. S. 160; Worth v. Peck, 7 Pa. St. 268.
The question of the validity of the reservation or withdrawal is not in this case. That question was litigated by
complainants before the Land Department, decided
against them, and abandoned. This suit is based upon a
second-an independent-application of complainants to
enter the land based upon the appraised price.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of

the court.
The appellants prosecute this direct appeal from a decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

sustaining a demurrer to a bill by them filed and dismissing
the cause for want of jurisdiction. The suit concerned
the right of the complainants under the laws of the United
States to purchase certain coal lands belonging to the
United States, and the defendants were the local land
officers of the United States at Pueblo, Colorado.
The theory that the decree dismissing the bill is susceptible of being directly reviewed rests upon the assumption that the controversy, because of its nature and because of the official character of the defendants, was one
of exclusive Federal cognizance, and therefore the refusal
to exercise jurisdiction necessarily involved a ruling concerning the authority of the court below as a Federal
court.
To decide the issue it is essential to consider the averments of the bill and the reasons which led the court below
to sustain the demurrer. The bill alleged that in the spring
of 1897 the complainants took possession of and commenced the improvement of two hundred and forty acres
of coal land, the property of the United States, situated
within fifteen miles of a completed railroad, in Las Animas
County, Colorado. In due time, it was averred, they filed
in the local land office at Pueblo the declaratory statement
authorized by § 2349, Revised Statutes, and on July 1,
1907, tendered twenty dollars per acre for the land and
applied to enter'the same under § 2350, Revised Statutes.
It was alleged that on January 11, 1908, both the declaratory statement and the application were rejected by the
local land office upon the ground that the land had been
withdrawn from sale under the coal land laws by a departmental order dated July 26, 1906, and that on appeal the
Commissioner of the General Land Office affirmed the
action of the local officials, and on a further appeal such
decision was approved on January 30, 1909, by the Secretary of the Interior.
The following facts were then averred:

PLESTED v. ABBEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In June, 1910, the land in question, with other land,
was restored to entry, and on June 28, 1910, the register
notified the complainants in writing that they would be
allowed sixty days from the receipt of the communication
in which to make a formal claim to the land as to which
they had previously filed a notice of claim, and that the
price fixed by the United States Geological Survey for
certain of the land was one hundred and twenty-five
dollars per acre and for the remainder one hundred and
fifteen dollars per acre, aggregating thirty thousand
dollars for the entire tract. It was alleged that soon afterwards the complainants filed in the local land office a
written application for the purchase of the land and by
direction of the register a notice of the application was
published and copies thereof were posted as required by
statute, and due proof of the performance of such acts
was filed in the land office. In September following, in
response to communications from the complainants, the
local land office notified complainants that payment for
the land must be made within thirty days or the application to purchase would be rejected. Within the time fixed
a tender of forty-eighf hundred dollars was made to the
receiver, as being the price fixed by § 2347, Revised Statutes. The receiver refused to accept the money or to
give any receipt therefor. The bill then averred that it
was tie -intention of the land officers to refuse to permit
the complainants to purchase the land unless they were
willing to pay, not the alleged statutory price, but the sum
of thirty thousand dollars, arbitrarily fixed by the Secretary of the Interior as the price of the lands. The prayer
of the bill was for both a restraining and a mandatory
injunction, the one forbidding the defendant land officers
from carrying out the orders of the Secretary of the Interior
and the Commissioner of the General Land Office and
the other commanding the defendant land officers to
accept the application of the complainants and allow them
VOL. ccxxviii--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

to purchase the lands upon the payment of the sum of $20
per acre. It was, moreover, prayed that defendants be
restrained from receiving or accepting the application of
any other person for the entry of the lands.
As at the outset stated, a demurrer was sustained and
the cause was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the court
in its certificate stating that this was done "upon the
ground that a ruling or decision by the officers of a local
land office of the United States made in the usual course of
proceedings for the acquisition of the title to public lands
is not subject to review or correction in the courts while
the title to the lands remains in the United States, and
also upon the further ground that while the title to public
lands, remains in the United States and the proceedings
for acquiring that title are still in fieri, the courts are without power, by injunction or otherwise, to control the judgment and discretion of the officers of the land department
in respect of the disposal of such lands under the public
land laws."
In testing the correctness of the ruling we treat as
negligible the averments of the bill assailing the validity
of the rejection on January 30, 1909, of the application
then pending to enter the land. We do this because if
complainants had a remedy in the courts growing out of
such rejection it was their duty to invoke and pursue that
remedy, and not having done so, but on the contrary
having for more than a year and a half acquiesced in
the judgment of the Land Department and having made
subsequently an entirely new application, we think their
rights must be measured by the later application. Considering the issue in that respect, we are of opinion that
the principle which caused the Circuit Court to hold that
it had no jurisdiction to award the relief prayed and
hence to dismiss the bill was a correct one. The United
States had not parted with the legal title to the land.
The defendants were subordinate officials of the Land

PLESTED v. ABBEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Department, and the acts and omissions complained of
were done pursuant to instructions from the head of the
Land Department, vested by law with the power to control the conduct of his subordinates in matters of this
character.
As officers administering the land laws, the defendants
therefore were, in the nature of things, under the control
and their acts were subject to the review of their official
superiors-the Commissioner of the General Land Office
and ultimately of the Secretary of the Interior. As said
in Litchfield v. Register & Receiver, 9 Wall. 575, 578, subordinate officials of the Land Department should not be
called upon "to put the court in possession of their views
and defend their instructions from the Commissioner and
convert the contest before the Land Department into one
before the court." Indeed the doctrine upon which the
court below based its action has been frequently announced and enforced. It was thus epitomized in Brown
v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 476, that "until the legal title
to public land passes from the Government, inquiry as
to all equitable rights comnes within the cognizance of the
Land Department." In United States v. Schurtz, 102 U. S.
378, 396, the doctrine is thus stated:
"Congress has also enacted a system of laws by which
rights to these lands may be acquired, and the title of the
Government conveyed to the citizen. This Court has
with a strong hand upheld the doctrine that so long as
the legal title to these lands remained in the United States,
and -the proceedings for acquiring it were as yet in fieri,
the courts would not interfere to control the exercise of
the power thus vested in that tribunal. To that doctrine
we still adhere."
See also United States ex rel. Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316; Knight v. Land Association, 142 U.. S.
161; Oregon v Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60; Naganab v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473; and the very recent decision in United

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

States ex rel. Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683. In the last
named decision the Litchfield Case was cited with approval,
and it was again reiterated that Congress has placed the
Land Department under the supervision and control of
the Secretary of the Interior, a special tribunal with large
administrative and quasi-judicial functions, to be exerted
for the purpose of the execution of the laws regulating
the disposal of the public lands.
Without, therefore, expressing any opinion upon the
merits, we hold that under the facts stated in the bill
this resort to the courts was premature, and the jiidgment
below must therefore be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No.-705.

Argued February 26, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

The prohibition in the Indian Appropriation Act of 1884, against sale
of cattle purchased by the Government for the Indians without
the consent of the Secretary of the Interior relates to all cattle
purchased by the Government for Indians, and is not limited to
such cattle as has been purchased from unexpended balances under
another provision of the act.
The two provisions of the act above referred to are not interdependent.
Wholly distinct and non-related provisions of a general appropriation

act should not be brought together and construed as one when such
construction defeats the obvious purpose of the act and policy of
the Government declared in that and other acts.
189 Fed. Rep. 262, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of provi-

sions in the Indian Appropriation Act of 1884 relative

