OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

DONNELLY v. UNITED STATES.
ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.
No. 97.

Petition for rehearing presented May 31, 1913.-Decided
June 9, 1913.

This court will permit a petition for rehearing to be filed in order to
determine whether it ought to be entertained and even if the point
raised as to expressions in the original opinion have a basis, if the
decision did not depend on that point the petition will be denied.
The court recalls that part of the opinion heretofore delivered in this
case, ante, pp. 262, 263, which holds that "By the acts of legislation
mentioned, as construed by the highest court of the State-(a) the
act of 1850, adopting the common law and thereby transferring to all
riparian proprietors (or confirming in them) the ownership of the
non-navigable streams and their beds; and (b) the acts of February 24 and of March 11, 1891, declaring in effect that the Klamath
River is a non-navigable stream-California has vested in the United
States, as riparian owner, the title to the bed of the Klamath, if in
fact it be a navigable river," and leaves that matter undecided.
As the conviction of the plaintiff in error can be sustained without
reference to the question of navigability of the Klamath River, a
petition for rehearing based on assertions of errors in that respect in
the opinion heretofore filed, ante, p. 243, is denied.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John F. Quinn, with whom Mr. W. F. Clyborne was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison for the United

States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the

opinion of the court.

A petition for rehearing is presented, which we permit
to be filed in order to determine whether it ought to be

entertained.

DONNELLY v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The petition raises several points, only one of which is
deemed worthy of mention; and that is the insistence that
the court, in basing its decision herein (228 U. S. 243, 262,
etc.) upon the California acts of February 24., 1891, c. 14
(Laws, 1891, p. 10) and of March 11, 1891, c. 92 (Laws,
1891, p. 96) (Political Code, ยง 2349), and the decision of
the Supreme Court of that State in Cardwell v. County of
Sacramento, 79 California, 347, 349, to the effect that the
enumeration of the navigable rivers of the State as made
by the legislature is exclusive and that no other rivers are
navigable under the laws of California, overlooked the
effect of the decisions of the Supreme Court of California
in other cases (People v. Elk River M. & L. Co., 107
California, 221, 224; Forestier v. Johnson, 44 Cal. Dec.
471, No. 2350, October 1, 1912; and People v. Kerber, 152
California, 731), and that our decision respecting the
navigability of the KIamath River and state ownership of
the bed thereof is so serious in its ulterior consequences
that it ought not to be adhered to without further argument.
The judgment affirming the conviction of the plaintiff
in error can be sustained, however, without regard to the
question thus raised. It is conceded that whether the
Klamath is navigable at the place where the homicide
occurred is a question of fact. Of course the tide ebbs and
flows at the river's mouth, but the locus in quo is approximately twenty-five miles from the mouth, and quite beyond any .possible influence of the tide. As the opinion
points out, there was evidence tending to show that the
stream is navigable in fact at certain seasons from Requa
(near its mouth) up to and above the locus in quo. But
the evidence was by no means conclusive. It showed an
apparently irregular traffic, in times of high water only,
employing Indian canoes, "dug-outs," and at certain
times small steamboats and gasoline launches. In this
state of the evidence, the trial court could not, nor can

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

we, take judicial notice of the stream as being navigable
in fact; especially in the face of a declaration by the legislature of the State that it is not navigable. United States
v. Rio Grande IrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 690, 698.
Upon the argument, the Government cited and relied
upon the acts of February 24 and March 11, 1891, and
the decision in Cardwell v. County of Sacramento, as showing that the State had abandoned any claim it might
have had to the bed of the stream, and surrendered such
rights to the riparian proprietors-in this case to the
United States, for the benefit of the Indians. Counsel for
plaintiff in error did not in his brief (nor, so far as we recall, in the oral argument) make any reply to this contention, nor challenge the authority of Cardwell v. County of
Sacramento, or the effect of that decision upon the matter
in controversy. Being unable to find that the case had
been overruled or questioned, we accepted it as authoritative upon the question of state policy, with the result of
concluding upon the whole 'matter that whether the river
were or were not navigable in fact, its bed was to be
deemed as included within the extension of the Hoopa
Valley Reservation.
But the record shows that upon the trial, the plaintiff
in error did not request or suggest that the question of the
navigability of the river at the locus in quo should be considered as a question of fact, and disposed of accordingly.
At the close of the evidence for the Government, counsel
moved for a dismissal of the action upon the ground that
it had not been shown that the alleged offense happened
within the limits of the Reservation. And at the close of
all the evidence the trial court was requested to instruct
the jury that the river was not within the limits of the
Reservation, and that if the alleged crime was conmitted
upon the river, the evidence had failed to establish the
jurisdiction of the court to try the defendant. This insistence was repeated in different forms, but in each in-

DONNELLY v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stance the court was in effect requested to rule as matter
of law that the Klamath River was not within the Reservation. This contention was as properly attributable to the
theory that the territorial limits as described in the executive order of President Harrison, dated October 16, 1891,
did not in terms include it, as to the theory that the river
was not navigable. It was upon the former theory that
plaintiff in error principally relied in this court. If the
suggestion of excluding the river from the Reservation on
the ground that it was navigable was intended to be made
the subject of exception at the trial, this point should have
been clearly raised; and it was not. Moreover, even assuming that the requests were intended to point to the
question of navigability, they at best called upon the court
to decide that question as a question of law, and not to
determine it, or to have the jury determine it, as a question of fact.
The state of the record, therefore, did not entitle the
plaintiff in error to call upon this court to decide the merits
of the question of the navigability of the river and its
effect upon the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the
homicide. In discussing the merits we assumed (in favor
of plaintiff in error) that the question was raised by the
record. But since it is now suggested that in so doing we
have passed upon a question that was not adequately
argued, and which in its consequences involves important
interests, other than those of the plaintiff in error, we prefer to and do recall so much of the opinion as holds that"By the acts of legislation mentioned, as construed by the
highest court of the State-(a) the act of 1850, adopting
the common law and thereby transferring to all riparian
proprietors (or confirming in them) the ownership of the
non-navigable streams and their beds; and (b) the acts of
February 24 and of March 11, 1891, declaring in effect
that the Klamath River is a non-navigable stream-California has vested in the United States, as riparian owner,

712

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

the title to the bed of the Klamath, if in fact it be a navigable river." That matter, therefore, we leave undecided.
But since, as already shown, the conviction of the plaintiff in error may properly stand without regard to that
question, we deem that no useful purpose would be served
by further oral argument.
Rehearing denied.

