TITLE &c. CO.. v. HARLAN & HOLLINGSWORTH. 567
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

The second Employers' Liability Act, which avoided the
faults of the first, was not passed until after the injury
complained of. We pas by as not involved any question
as to the extent to which that act operated to supersede
the Indiana statute. The situation is not at all like that
presented in Northern Pacific Railway v. Washington, 222
U. S. 370. There a perfectly valid act concerning the
hours of service upon railroads engaged in interstate
commerce had been'passed. The mere postponement of
its operation was held not to lessen its effect as a manifestation of the purpose of Congress to regulate a subject which
might be the subject of state legislation only when Congress had been Silent. The effect of this purpose to take
control of the subject was held to supersede an existing
state statute dealing with the same matter from the time
of the passage of the act of Congress. No such purpose
could be manifested by a void statute, since it was not
law for any purpose.
We conclude that the judgment of the court below
should be
Affirmed.

TITLE GUARANTY & SURETY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES, TO THE USE OF HARLAN &
HOLLINGSWORTH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 530.

Submitted April 28, 1913.-Decided May 12, 1913.

As the act of August 13, 1894, relative to. contractors' bonds prior to

the amendment of February 24, 1905, contained no provision as to
jurisdiction of courts in which suits could be brought on such bonds,
the Circuit Court of the district in which the bondsman, if a surety
company, has its principal office, had jurisdiction under the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228 U. S.

regulating surety companies of August 13, 1894, and this jurisdiction
extended to suits on bonds executed prior to the amendatory act
for materials furnished after the passage of that act.
The act of February 24, 1905, amending the act of August 13, 1894,
and requiring that all suits on a c6ntractor's bond be brought in the
district in which the contract was to be performed, had merely a prospective operation and no retroactive effect. Davidson Marble Co.
v. Gibson, 213 U. S. 10.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of actions brought on contractors' bonds finder
the act of August 13, 1894, and the construction of the act
amendatory 'thereof of February 24, 1905, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Russell H. Robbins for plaintiff in error:
The act of,,February 24, 1905, governs the remedy of
the plaintiff for having furnished material for the construction of a public work. By its terms this act went into
immediate effect at the time it was passed, and provides for
an omnibus action to be prosecuted in the name of the
United States in the Circuit Court of the United States
in the District where the contract was to be performed,
and not elsewhere. Under this act, the 'jurisdiction of a
particular United States Circuit Court is exclusive.
United States v. Congress Construction Co., 222 U. S.
199.
The earlier statute contained no limitation as to the
court in which the suit could be brought, but in. their
primary purpose both statutes are identical. The statute
is, in effect, a pure mechanic's lien statute, and the general
rules of construction applicable to mechanics' lien statutes
have been held to govern both the earlier and the later
statutes. Hill v. American Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197, 203.
See also United States v. Churchyard, 132 Fed. Rep. 82;
Jones v. Great Southern Hotel Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 370, 383;
aff'd 193 U. S. 532; Standard Oil Co. v. Trust Co., 21

TITLE &c. CO. v. HARLAN & HOLLINGSWORTH.
228 U. S.

569

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

App. D. C. 369; Marble Co. v, Burgdorf, 13 App. D. C. 506,
519.
Where there has been a change in the statute after the
contract has been made and before the labor and materials
have been furnished, the lien is to be determined by the
law in force when the labor and materials are furnished
although a different statute was in effect when the contract was made. Hauptman v. Catlin, 20 N. Y. 247;
Sullivan v. Brewster, i E. D. Smith (N. Y.), 681; Summerlin v. Thompson & Co., 31 Florida, 369; Weaver v. Sells, 10
Kansas, 609; McCrea v. Craig, 23 California, 522; Goodbub
v. Hornung, 127 Indiana, 181; Nixon v. Cydon Lodge, 56
Kansas, 298; Wheaton v. Berg, 50 Minnesota, 525; Bardwell v. Mann, 46 Minnesota, 285; Hill v; Lovell, 47.Minnesota, 293; Rockel on Mechanics' Liens (1909), ยง 7, p. 11.
Whatever rights in the nature of a mechanics' lien Congress may give to a materialman under a public contract
must necessarily be measured by the statute in force at
the time the materials and labor were furnished. The
same rule applies to jurisdiction. Merchants' Ins. Co. v.
Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541, 544; and see also National Surety
Co. v. Architectural Co., 226 U.S. 276. U. S. Fidelity Co.
v. United States, 209 U. S. 306; Davidson Bros. Marble
Co. v. Gibson, 213 U. S. 10, do not apply.
Even if the application of the later act to the facts at
bar would result in depriving the subcontractor of substantive rights as a materialman because its contract had
been made prior to the passage of the amendatory act,
the later act merely modified an existing remedy and as
the materialman's rights are purely statutory and not
contractual, it would have been entirely competent for
Congress to have abrogated the lien altogether. People v.
Adirondack Ry. Co., 160 N. Y. 225; aff'd in 176 U. S. 335.
In point of fact, there were no rights in existence at the
time of the amendment so far as a lien was concerned which
could have been impaired, and a change in the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

before the defendant in error had incorporated its materials
into the work could not affect a statutory right which had
not yet come into existence. Waterworks Co. v. Oshkosh,
187 U. S. 437, 447.
Until the subcontractor, by incorporating its materials
into the dry-dock, brought itself within the protective
provisions of the statute and accepted the benefit therein
provided for it, no rights on its part against the bond in
the nature of a mechanic's lien came into existence. When
this occurred, the act of February 24, 1905, was in effect,
and the exclusive remedy therein provided was a suit in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district
in which the League Island dry-dock is situated. Galveston &c. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S.481, 490.
Mr: George Wharton Pepper and Mr. Thomas Stokes for
defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action upon a contractor's bond executed on
May 24, 1904, under the provisions of the act of Congre~s
of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, entitled "An Act.
for the protection of persons furnishing material and labor
for the construction of public works." The question for
decision is whether the court below had jurisdiction of the
cause.
The bondwas executed by the Surety Company in
connection with a contract entered into by the Scofield
Company with the United States for the erection of a drydock at the League Island Navy Yard. The Harlan &
Hollingsworth corporation took over a subcontract and
constructed a caisson for the dock. To recover a balance
owing, the corporation resorted to its remedy on the bond.
The bond and various contracts were made prior to 1905.

TITLE &c. CO. v. HARLAN & HOLLINGSWORTH. 571
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The above-mentioned act of August 13, 1894, contains
no direction respecting where suit upon the bond of a
contractor shall be brought by a subcontractor or what
courts shall take jurisdiction of the right of action it,
creates. As the principal office of the defendant Surety
Company was located within the district, this action was
commenced in the court below as authorized by ยง 5 of an
act of Congress also approved August 13, 1894, c. 282, 28
Stat. 279, regulating surety companies which execute
bonds required by the laws of the United States.
The Scofield Company did not defend. The Surety
Company, however, entered a plea to the jurisdiction of
the court, contending that as the work done and materials
and labor furnished by the Harlan & Hollingsworth corporation were done and furnished after the passage of
an act approved February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811,
amendatory of the first-mentioned act of 1894, and making
important changes in the rights of a subcontractor, the
provisions of the amendatory act governed and the action
should have been commenced in the district in which the
contract was to be performed and executed. A demurrer
to the plea was sustained, and for want-of an affidavit of
defense judgment was entered in favor of the Harlan &
Hollingsworth Company, and the case was brought directly here on the question of jurisdiction.
The Cir uit Court was clearly right' in upholding its
jurisdiction. As already stated, the contract between the
United States and the original contractor,. the bond of
the Surety Company and the contract with the plaintiff
were all executed prior to the passage of the amendatory
act. To hold that the latter act applied, therefore, would
be to construe the act as having -a retroactive effect. It
has, however, been definitely decided that the act was intended to have merely a prospective operation. U. S.
Fidelity Co. v. Siruthers Wells Co., 209 U. S: 306; Davidson
Bros. Marble Co. v. Gibson, 213 U. S. 10. The decisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

lend no support to the contention now urged on behalf
of the plaintiff in error that Congress intended the act of
1905 to be retroactive in all cases where the work was done
after the passage of the amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

ADAMS v. CITY OF MILWAUKEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
No. 247. Argued April 23, 1913.-Decided May 12, 1913.

The question whether a classification of milk vendors who produce
their milk outside of the city to which they send milk deprives such
producers of the equal protection of the law when there are different
rules for vendors who produce their milk within the city limits has
not been so far foreclosed by prior decisions of this court as to render
its discussion unnecessary; and a motion to dismiss is denied.
Whether rules provided to be made by a police ordinance were properly
promulgated and whether the officer promulgating them had authority so to do are not Federal questions.
Different situations of the objects regulated by a municipal ordinance
may require different regulations.
A classification in a municipal ordinance by which vendors of milk
drawn from cows outside the city are subjected to different regulations from those to which vendors of milk drawn from cows within
the city, is not, provided, as in this case, the regulations are reasonable and proper, a denial of equal protection of the law guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment; and so held as to the milk ordinance
of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The police power of the State is adequate to protect the people against
the sale of impure food such as milk.
An ordinance regulating the sale of food products must be summarily
enforced and the destruction of impure food, such as milk, is the
only available and efficient penalty for its violations and does not
deprive the owner of his property without due process of law; and so

