OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

228 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. GEORGE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 442.

Argued February 26, 1913.-Decided March 24, 1913.

Quture: whether the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, does not
require an explicit declaration of the law upon which the indictment
is based and a ruling oni its validity and construction; and whether
on an appeal taken under that act the Government can seek to sustain the indictment as valid under other statutes than those relied
upon in the trial court.
An indictment for perjury under § 5392, Rev. Stat., cannot be based
on an affidavit not authorized or required b any law of the United
States.
Sections 16), 441, 453, 2246 and 2478, Rev. Stat., confer administrative
power only on the Secretary of the Interior and the officers of the
Land Department. They do not confer legislative power.
There is a distinction between legislative and administrative functions,
and under a statutory power to make regulations an administrative
officer cannot abridge or enlarge the conditions imposed by statute.
Section 2291, Rev. Stat., prescribes what a homestead -claimant ahd
the witnesses are requifed to make oath-to and the Secretary of the
Interior has no power to enlarge these requirements.
A charge of crime against the United Stateg must have clear legislative
basis.
A homestead claimant making an affidavit not required by § 2291,
Rev. Stat., is not guilty of perjury under § 5392, Rev. Stat., although
the affidavit was demanded by the Land Office in pursuance of a
regulation made' y the Secretary of the Interior.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 5392,
Rev. Stat., and the validity of an indictment thereunder
for perjury, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Solicitor General Bullitt for the United States:
Sworn testimony from a homestead claimant himself

as to residence and cultivation is authorized by'law within

UNITED STATES v. GEORGE.
228 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the meaning of Rev. Stat., § 5392, so that perjury may be
predicated on the falsity of the testimony.
The indictment is based on a regulation of the General
Land Office. See Circular of Commissioner of General
Land Office, dated July 17, 1878. Caha v. United States,
152 U. S. 211, 222.
The regulation of the General Land Office was fully
authorized by statute. Rev. Stat., §§ 161, 441, 453, 2246,
2478, 2289 et seq.
The regulation is appropriate and in pursuance of the
enforcement of Rev. Stat., § 2291. See letter of Secretary
of Interior to Commissioner of General Land Office,
January 28, 1878.
There is no delegation of legislative power. United
States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Williamson v. United
States, 207 U. S. 425; Caha v. United States, 152 U. S. 211;
United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238.
This court has jurisdiction to consider the view of the
case herein advanced.
Mr. J. J. Halligan, with whom Mr. H. C. Brome and
Mr. W. T. Wilcox were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
The act of Congress especially provides what the entryman shall make affidavit to in making his final proof, and
the Secretary of the Interior has no authority to enlarge
the act of Congress, and require the entryman to swear to
facts which the act provides shall be proven by two credible witnesses, and perjury cannot be based upon the oath
of the entryman to facts which Congress did not require
him to make affidavit, but proof of which was required
to be made by two other credible witnesses. Williamson
v. United States, 207 U. S. 425; Robnett v. United States,
169 Fed. Rep. 178; Dwire v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep.
160; Pattersonv. United States, 181 Fed. Rep. 970; United
States v. Howard, 37 Fed. Rep. 369; United States v. Bed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

good, 49 Fed. Rep. 54; Silver v. State, 17 Ohio, 369; United
States v. Maid, 116 Fed. Rep. 650; United States v. Eaton,
144 U. S. 678.
The case at bar is not to be confounded with those cases
wherein Congress has expressly authorized executive departments to make rules to carry out the specific provisions of various acts, and which rules were not provided
by Congress itself. Conspicuous examples of those cases
are: United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; United States
v. Nelson, 199 Fed. Rep. 464.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Indictment for perjury, 1 by which defendant in error
(herein referred to as defendant) is charged with falsely
and corruptly taking his solemn oath in a proceeding
wherein a law of the United States authorized an oath
to be administered before the register of the United States
land office at North Platte, Nebraska, the proceeding
being the making of proof and final entry of a homestead
claim of certain described lands.
The indictment charges that defendant took an oath
and subscribed the same and deposed thereby that he
built a house and other improvements on the land, which
he described and stated their value to be $300.00, and
established his residence thereon in April, 1901. The
dimensions of the house and other improvements were
stated. He further deposed that he had continuously
1

Sec. 5392. Every person who, having taken an oath before a com-

petent tribunal, officer, or person, in any case in which a law of the
United States authorizes an oath to be administered, that he will testify,
declare, depose, or certify truly, or that any written testimony, declaration, deposition, or certificate by him subscribed is true, wilfully and
contrary to such oath states or subscribes any material matter which
he does not believe to be true, is guilty of perjury, and shall be punished, etc.

UNITED STATES v. GEORGE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the.Court.

resided on the land after he had established his residence
thereon, and his family after his marriage in 1902, with
the exception of certain absences which were stated.
These facts, it is alleged in the indictment, were matters
of material inquiry of the good faith of the defendant in
perfecting his homestead entry. The indictment explicitly negatived the facts so deposed by defendant and
charged that he "was not acting in good faith in making
said entry and final proof as a home for himself, but in
fact to defraud the United States out of -the use, title,
and possession of said land."
Defendant demurred to the indictment and stated as
grounds thereof (1) that it failed to state or charge any
crime under the laws of the United States. (2) That there
was no law of the United States which required defendant,
as claimant, in making his homestead proof, to testify
with reference to the matters and things Set forth in the
indictment, the law of the United States requiring that
the facts be proved by two credible witnesses other than
the claimant, and did not authorize the claimant to testify
in his own behalf with reference thereto.
The demurrer was sustained, and the case was then
brought here under the Criminal Appeals Act.
It will be observed that the indictment charges that the
oath was taken in a proceeding wherein a law of the
United States authorized an oath to be administered.
Whether it was is the question in the case; and we are
brought to the inquiry as to what law of-the United States
authorized the oath. To this inquiry the record discloses
divergent answers on the part of the Government. In the
District Court it was the view and contention of the
Government that the indictment was founded on § 5392 of
the Revised Statutes and § 2291, as amended by the act of
March 3, 1877, c. 122, 19 Stat. 403. The record not disclosing this, and that it might appear, a bill of exceptions
was tendered to and authenticated by the district judge.
VOL. ccxxviii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

The bill of exceptions recites that the court in sustaining
the demurrer based its decision upon those sections as the
law upon which the indictment was founded "and held
that there is no law of the United States which required
the defendant, as claimant, in making his homestead proof,
to testify with reference to the matters and things set
forth in the indictment; the law of the United States requiring that said facts be proved by two credible witnesses other than the claimant, and not authorizing the
claimant to testify in his own behalf with reference
thereto." And so far as the assignment of errors is specific it states § 2291 as the applicable law and assails its
construction.
This view of the applicable law of the indictment is now
abandoned. Indeed, it is distinctly rejected. The Government in its brief here says: "The present indictment was
not based on § 2291, for it seems probable that the 'two
credible witnesses' there provided for mean two persons
other than the claimant himself. Therefore, we must
seek elsewhere for the authority in law for the claimant to
make the oath as to his residence on, and cultivation of,
the land he seeks to homestead." And, going elsewhere,
the Government finds the law, as it contends, in certain
regulations made by the Interior Department.
There is ground for a contention that if this court
should be put to a choice between these views of the
applicable law of the indictment we should have to select
that urged and passed upon by the trial court, and a
query might then occur-has this court jurisdiction under
the Criminal Appeals Act? That act allows a direct appeal
to this court "from a decision or judgment . . . sustaining a demurrer to any indictment . . . where
such decision or judgment is based upon the invalidity
or construction of the statute upon which the indictmeat is founded." Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat.
1246,

UNITED STATES v. GEORGE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This statute seems to require an explicit declaration of
the law upon which an indictment is based and a ruling
on its validity or construction. To contend for one law as
applicable in the trial court and another law in the appellate court would seem not only to be opposed to the
requirement of the statute but to be inconsistent with
orderly procedure and to confound the relation of trial and
appellate tribunals.
But, accepting the case as properly here, we pass to the
consideration of the present contention of the Government. Section 2291 is certainly a necessary if not a
determinative element in that consideration. It provides
as follows: .. .
. If . . . the person making
such entry . .
proves by two credible witnesses
that he, she or they have resided upon or cultivated the
same for the term of five years
. .
and makes affidavit that no part of such land has been alienated
and that he, she or they will bear true allegiance to the
Government of the United States; then, in such case,
he, she or they . . . shall be entitled to a patent."
It will be observed that the facts required tor be proved
are stated, by what means proved, and the manner of
proof and its quantum. The facts to be proved are
(1) cultivation of and residence upon the land and (2) nonalienation and allegiance; the means of proof of the first
being two credible witnesses; of the second, affidavit of
the claimant. In other words, the section is not only
explicit as to what is to be proved but in what manner
proved; and what is required of the claimant himself,
to-wit, an affidavit, is distinguished from what he mast
establish by others, to-wit, two credible witnesses. Such,
then, are the conditions seemingly legislatively made the
exact measure of the obligation of the homestead claimant.
It certainly will not be asserted that they can be detracted
from. It is asserted that they may be added to, and have
been added to by virtue of certain sections of the Revised

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Statutes. We insert the sections in the margin.1 It will
be seen that they confer administrative power only. This
is indubitably so as to §§ 161, 441, 453 and 2478; and
certainly under the guise of regulation legislation cannot be
exercised. United States v. United Verde Copper Co., 196
U. S. 207. Especial stress, however, is put upon § 2246.
By that section the register or receiver is authorized and
it is made his "duty to administer any oath required by
law or the instructions of the General Land Office in connection with the entry or purchase of any tract of land."
These sections, it is contended, as we have seen, were the
law of the indictment.
Acting under the authority presumed to be given by
§ 2246 and the other sections, a regulation was promulgated which prescribed forms of taking preemption and
Sec. 161. The head of each Department is authorized to prescribe
regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the government of his Department, the conduct of its officers and clerks, the distribution and
performance of its business, and the custody, use, and preservation of
the records, papers, and property appertaining to it.
Sec. 441. The Secretary of the Interior is charged with the supervision of public business relating to the following subjects:
Second. The public lands
Sec. 453. The Commissioner of the General Land Office shall perform, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, all executive
duties appertaining to the surveying and sale of the public* lands of
the United States, or in anywise respecting such public 'lands, and,
also, such as relate to private claims of land, and the issuing of patents
for all grants of land under the authority of the Government.
Sec. 2246. The register or receiver is authorized, and it shall be
their duty, to administer any oath required by law or the instructions of
the General .Land Office,. in connection with the entry or purchase of
any tract of the public lands; but he shall not charge or receive, directly
or indirectly, any compensation for administering such oath.
Sec. 2478. The Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the
direction of the Secretary of the Interior, is authorized to enforce and
carry into execution, by appropriate regulations, every part of the
provisions of this Title not otherwise specially provided for.

UNITED STATES v. GEORGE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

final homestead proof by questions and answers, and provided that "the claimant will be required to testify, as a
witness, in his own behalf in the same manner." It was
testimony exacted in pursuance of this regulation and in
the manner directed by it which constitutes the charge
of the indictment. It will be observed, therefore, that the
claimant was required to testify as other witnesses. In
other words, three witnesses were required; § 2291 requires
two only and, as we have said, points out what proof, in
addition, the claimant himself shall give. It is manifest
that the regulation adds a requirement which that section
does not, and which is not justified by § 2246. To so
construe the latter section is to make it confer unbounded
legislative powers. What, indeed, is its limitation? If the
Secretary of the Interior may add by regulation one condition, may he not add another? If he may require a
witness or witnesses in addition to what § 2291 requires,
why not other conditions, and the disposition of the
public lands thus be taken from the legislative branch of
the GoveFnment and given to the discretion of the Land
Department? It is not an adequate answer to say that the
regulation must be reasonable. The power to make it is
expressed in general terms. If given at all it is as broad as
its subject and may vary with the occupant of the office.
This is to make conditions of title, not to regulate those
constituted by the statute.
In United States v. United Verde Copper Co., supra,
this court considered the power of the Secretary of the
Interior under an act of Congress giving the right to cut
timber from the public lands for certain purposes, which
were enumerated "or domestic purposes," and making the
right subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary
of the Interior might prescribe "for the protection of the
timber and of the undergrowth growing on such lands, and
for other purposes." (Italics ours.) The Secretary made a
regulation which provided, among other things, that no

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

timber should be "permitted to be used for smelting purposes, smelting being a separate and distinct industry
from that of mining." The justification urged for the
regulation was that the word "domestic" meant household. This court rejected the contention and decided that
the regulation transcended the power of the Secretary.
We said, "If Rule 7 (the regulation involved) is valid, the
Secretary of the Interior has power to abridge or enlarge
the statute at will. If he can define one term, he can another. If he can abridge, he can enlarge. Such power is
not regulation; it is legislation."
In that case the power of the Secretary of the Interior
was directly associated with the right conferred. Yet it
was held that such power could not qualify or limit the
right. In other words, a distinction between the legislative and administrative function was recognized and
enforced. And, similarly, this distinction must be recognized and enforced in the case at bar. The distinction is
fundamental. Where the charge is of crime, it must have
clear legislative basis. In illustration we may cite Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425; United States v. Keitel,
211 U. S. 370; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677;
Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; United States v. Biggs, 211
U. S. 507; Dwyer v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep. 160.
Judgment affirmed.
THE FAIR v. KOHLER DIE AND SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 169.

Argued March 6, 1913.-Decided March 24, 1913.

Where plaintiff relies upon infringement of his patent and nothing
else, the cause, whether good or bad, is one under the laws pf the
United States and the Circuit Court has jurisdiction; and jurisdiction cannot be defeated by matter set up in the answer.

