SANFORD v. AINSA.
228 U. S.

Counsel for Appellants.

the liability of carriers, while engaged in commerce between the States, for defects in cars. Section 1. In the
case of death the only action is one for the benefit of the
next of kin. Section 1. Michigan Central R. R. Co. v.
Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59, 67, 68. American R. R. Co. v.
Didricksen,227 U. S. 145, 149. Gulf, Colorado & Santa F6
Ry. Co. v. Mcinnis, 228 U. S. 173, 175. Therefore the
ruling of the state court was wrong. The amendment of
April 5, 1910, c. 143, ยง 2, 36 Stat. 291, in like manner allows but one recovery, although it provides for survival of
the right of the injured person. The amendment, however, does not apply to this case, as the death occurred in
August, 1909.
Judgment reversed.

SANFORD v. AINSA, ADMINISTRATOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 504.

Argued May 5, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

This court rarely disturbs local decisions of the territorial courts on
question of local practice.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, having held that undet ยง 10 of
Act 44 of 1899 of Arizona transferring cases from the District Court
of one county to the corresponding court of another county newly
organized, the former court retained jurisdiction until the conditions
of the transfer were fulfilled, this court follows that decision.
13 Arizona, 287, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William C. Prentiss, with whom Mr. Fred McKee
was on the brief, for appellants.
VOL. ccxxviii-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Mrs. Sarah H. Sorin and Mr. Selim M. Franklin, for
appellee, submitted.
MR. JUsTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit to recover possession of land conveyed
by the father of the appellants to them, pending a prior
suit prosecuted by the appellee to quiet title in a tract of
which this land was part. Richardson v. Ainsa, 218 U. S.
289. The plaintiff (appellee) got a judgment for possession
and damages and the defendant took the case to the
Supreme Court of the Territory.
The errors assigned before that court seem to have been
first, the refusal of the court below to strike out a paragraph of the complaint that set up the decree in the former
suit, the defendant contending that it appeared on its
face to have been entered by a court having no jurisdiction; second, the overruling of a general demurrer; and
besides these two, the overruling of a motion for judgment
in defendant's favor, and of another motion for a new
trial and in arrest of judgment, and the admission of
incompetent evidence. The court declined to review the
assignments other than the first two, both because they
were too general and because the abstract of record before
the court did not contain the evidence, and therefore it
would have been necessary to examine the original transcript of the reporter's notes, contrary to the rules and
practice of the court. Accordingly when the appellant
moved for findings of fact in the nature of a special verdict
the motion was denied, and the first contention of the
appellants is that the case should be sent back for findings
of fact. Nielsen v. Steinfeld, 224 U. S. 534.
We assume that the findings of fact desired were findings sufficient to open the last mentioned assignments of
error for reconsideration here. But the only findings that
the Supreme Court of the Territory could have made in

SANFORD v. AINSA.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

order to submit its rulings to revision would have been to
the effect of what we have stated. It was not called
on to reverse its decision that by correct local practice the
merits were not before it in order to present the merits to
this court. Therefore unless its decision on the question
of practice was wrong its refusal to make the findings
desired was right. But we rarely disturb local decisions
on questions of local practice and we see no reason to do so
in this instance. Therefore so far as all the assignments of
error after the first two are concerned the judgment must
be affirmed. Armijo v. Armijo, 181 U. S. 558, 561.
We see no ground for the demurrer unless it was intended to raise the same question as the motion to strike
out the averments touching the previous suit. The basis
of this motion was that the jurisdiction of the court where
that suit was pending was ended before judgment by ยง 10
of Act 44, 20th Leg. Assembly, 1899. By that section all
actions 'now pending' in the District Court of Pima
County, where the property in controversy is situated in
the new County of Santa Cruz, "shall be transferred to
the proper courts of said County of Santa Cruz for trial,"
and it is made the duty of the clerks of Pima County to
transmit all papers, provided that it shall not be the
clerk's duty to do so until his fees and compensation
allowed by the act shall have been paid or tendered to him,
and until all costs due to the clerk and sheriff have been
paid. The court of Santa Cruz is to acquire jurisdiction
upon receipt by its clerk of the papers in the actions
transferred. It was held by the Supreme Court---and we
should follow the decision even if it were less obviously
correct, Gray v. Taylor, 227 U. S. 51, 57-that the jurisdiction of the Pima Court remained until the conditions
of. transfer were fulfilled, and that no facts were alleged in
the complaint showing that to be the case. No ground
appears for disturbing the judgment below.
Judgment affirmed.

