FRIEND v. TALCOTT.
228 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

FRIEND v. TALCOTT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 155.

Argued January 30, 31, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

Under the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, as amended in 1903, a creditor
is not bound to elect which remedy he will pursue against the bankrupt on a contract where the right to sue in tort also exists; nor
does he waive his right to sue on the. tort for balance of his claim
by accepting his dividend under a composition. Crawford v. Burke,
195 U. S. 176.
Under the Bankruptcy Act of -1898, as amended in '1903, *there are
certain classes of creditors, excluded from the act altogether and
others who, although included therein, are excepted from the operation of the discharge. In this respect the act of 1898 differs from
that of 1841, and follows that of 1867.
To constitute res judicata there must be identity of cause between
the two cases. That identity does not exist between the granting
of a general discharge in bankruptcy and an action for the balance
of a debt excepted by the act from the operation of the discharge.
A creditor, after unsuccessfully opposing a composition and a disoharge
in bankruptcy on the ground of fraud in creating the debt, accepted
the dividend and then sued for the balance on the ground that the
debt was excepted from the discharge: Held that there was no waiver
of the right to sue on the tort by accepting the dividend, nor was the
granting of the discharge res judicata of the claim for the balance
of the debt.
179 Fed. Rep. 676, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a claimant who
has accepted a dividend under.,a composition to recover
against the bankrupt after the discharge on the ground of
deceit prior to the bankruptcy, are stated. in the opinion.

Mr. ChesterK Cleveland, with whom Mr. JacobNewman,
Mr. Salmon O. Levinson and Mr. Benjamin V. Becker were
on the brief, for petitioners:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Petitioners.

228 U. S.

Talcott has had his day in court on the issue as to
whether or not his claim is barred by the discharge of the
bankrupts, and they ought not to be twice vexed with
the same controversy.
The business was all partnership business; the supposed
financial statement was made by the bankrupts or on
behalf of them as a partnership; and their discharge in
bankruptcy was as partners. In Re Bertenshaw, 157
Fed. Rep. 363; see dissent; Vaccaro v. Security Bank,
103 Fed.-Rep. 436; Dickas v. Barnes, 140 Fed. Rep. 849;
Tumlin v. Bryan, 165 Fed. Rep. 166; Re Purley & Hays,
138 Fed. Rep. 927; Re Forbes, 128 Fed. Rep. 137; Francis
v. McNeal, 186 Fed. Rep. 481.
The adjudication of the Bankruptcy Court cannot be
said to be binding upon one part or capacity and not binding upon the other part or-capacity. 24 Am. & Eng. Ency.
735 et seq.; Corcoranv. C. & 0. Canal Co., 94 U. S. 741,
745; United States v. California Co., 192 U. S. 355.
The jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court was invoked
'to hear and determine whether or not the bankrupts
should be denied a discharge because they had obtained
property on credit by means of a materially false statement in writing, and the creditor is bound by the adjudication on that issue. Starbuck v. Starbuck, 173 N. Y. 503;
Hewitt v. Northrup, 75 N. Y. 506, 510; 11 Am. & Eng.
Enc. of Law, 446, 447.
While the precise cause of action set forth in the present
declaration may not have been involvedin the bankruptcy
proceeding, nevertheless the precise issue as to the effect
upon a discharge of the facts relating to the statement to
the agency was inolved in the, bankruptcy proceeding as
well as in the present action; it is therefore such a res
judicata as is known as an estoppel by verdict. 24 Am.
& Eng. Enc. of Law, 714, 780; Southern Pac. R. R. Co.
v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 48; Stone v. United States,
64 Fed. Rep. 667, 670.

FRIEND v. TALCOTT.
228 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

The adjudication was no less conclusive because it
was upon a question of law rather than upon a question of
fact. Bissel v. Spring Valley, 124 U. S. 225, 232; 24 Am.
& Eng. Enc. 799; Gould v. Evansville R. -R. Co., 91 U. S.
526, 533; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Slaght, 205 U. S. 122.
The conclusive, effect of the adjudication is not destroyed by the fact that the decree of the Bankruptcy
Court was erroneous. Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line, 200
U. S. 273, 290;'Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499,
510.
The record of the bankruptcy proceedings evidenced an
election of remedies by respondent, which barred his suit
for fraudulent representations.
By filing a claim for gobds sold and thus affirming the
contract, respondent waived all claims for deceit. Tindle
v. Birkett, 205 U. S. 183; Adler v. Fenton, 24 How. 407;
Lincoln v. Claflin, 7 Wall., 132; Simon v. Goodyear Co.,
105 Fed. Rep. 573.
The judgment of the Bankruptcy Court allowing his
claim for goods sold, operated as a merger of all his causes
of action.
A judgment merges not only the cause of action sued
on but'all concurrent remedies, even if consistent. Barth
v, Loeffelholtz, 108 Wisconsin, 562; Caylus y. N. Y., K. &
S. R. R. Co., 76 N, Y, 609; Bowen v. Mandeville, 95 N. Y.
237; Morgan v. Skidmore,, 3 Abb. N. Cas. (N. Y.) 92;
Brumbach v. Flower, 20 Ill. App. 219.
The order of a court of bankruptcy allowing a claim is
a judgment. Kuehling v. Leberman, 2 Wkly. N. C. (Pa.)
616; Mitchell v. Mayo, 16 Illinois, 83; Wheeler v. Dawson,
63 Illinois, 54. The fact that such judgment is not as efficient as another remedy might be, does not change the
rule. Karr v. Barstow, 24 Illinois, * 580.
One appearing in the bankruptcy proceedings and
opposing the discharge elects to treat his claim as one not
excepted from the operation of the discharge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Respondent.

228 U. S.

The order confirming the composition discharged the
bankrupts from Talcott's claim. Talcott's claim was provable. Crawfordv. Burke, 195 U. S. 176. It is not excepted
from the operation of a discharge. Tindle v. Birkett, 205
U. S. 183.
The confirmation of a composition has the same effect
as a discharge. Bankruptcy Act 1898, § 14c.
Mr. Albert M. Kales, with whom Mr. Horace Kent
Tenney and Mr. Roger Sherman were on the brief, for
respondent:
The confirmation of the composition is no bar to the
present suit.
There is no estoppel by judgment.
The two causes are not the same.
There must be identity of parties, subject-matter and
cause of action. Markley v. People. 171 Illinois, 260;
Wright v. Griffey, 147 Illinois, 496.
The subject-matter of the two proceedings is different.
Re Mussey, 99 Fed. Rep. 71.
In the bankruptcy case the rights of the debtors to a
discharge are involved. In the present suit, the right
of Talcott to recover damages is involved.
Identity in interest of the parties is also wanting.
There is no estoppel by verdict. Riverside Co. v.
Townshend, 120 Illinois, 9; Harrison v. Remington Paper
Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 385; Southern PacificR. R. Co. v. United
States, 168 U. S. 1.
A judgment rendered upon demurrer is sometimes
conclusive of the facts confessed by the demurrer. Bissel
v. Spring Valley, 124 U. S. 225.
Talcott's cause of action was therefore established in
the Bankruptcy Court. Re Thomas, 92 Fed. Rep. 913.
The order of discharge was a mere official form. Official Form No. 62, Collier on Bankruptcy (9th ed.), p.
4160,

FRIEND v. TALCOTT.
228 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

One who has a claim that is not dischargeable will not
be heard to object to a discharge. In re Servis, 140 Fed.
Rep. 222.
The finding of the court in the order of discharge
that the bankrupts had not done any act barring a discharge, not being supported by evidence, is not binding.
Burleigh v. Foreman, 12 Am. B. R. 88; 3 Cyc. 362.
The burden of proof is on him who claims an estoppel
by verdict. The burden has not been sustained by the
defendant. Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606; Harrison v.
Remington Paper Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 385, 400; Cromwell
v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351; Southern Co. v. St. Paul
Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 690; Enfield v..Jordan, 119 U. S. 680,
691.
A misrepresentation to a third person is as effectual as
a basis for an action of deceit as a direct representation
to the one who is deceived. Katzenstein v. Reid, 41 Tex.
Civ. App. 106.
If the record leaves it uncertain whether the judgment in the first case was based on a fact essential to
plaintiff's recovery in the second case, there is no estoppel.
Hudson v. Remington Paper Co., 71 Kansas, 300, 304.
Proving a claim in the Bankruptcy Court or taking
judgment in assumpsit does not waive the claimant's
right to sue for deceit. Katzenstein v. Reid, supra; Standard Sewing Machine Co. v. Kattel, 132 App. Div. (N. Y.)
539; In re Lewensohn, 99 Fed. Rep. 73, 74, aff'd 104
Fed. Re*. 1006; Standard Sewing Machine Co. v. Alexander, 68 S. Car. 506; Frey v. Torrey, 70 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 166; S. C., 175 N. Y. 501; Mallory v. Leach, 35
Vermont, 156; Bowen v. Mandeville, 95 N. Y. 237; Sheldon
v. Clews, 13 Abb. (N. C.) 41; Whittier v. Collins, 15 R. I.
90; Union Cent. Life Ins. Co. v. Scheidler, 130 Indiana, 214;
Standard Sewing Machine Co. v. Owings, 140 N. Car.
503; Norton v. Huxley, 13 Gray (Mass.), 285; Brumbach
v. Flower, 20 Ill. App. 219, aff'd 131 Illinois, 646; Bacon

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Respondent.

228 U. S.

v. Moody, 117 Georgia, 207; Drainage District v. Dowd,

134The
Ill. App. 499.
same was held under the Bankruptcy Act of
1867.
Strang v. Bradner, 114 U, S. 555, 560; Stokes v. Mason,

10 R. I. 261; McBean v. Fox, 1 Ill. App.
The decision in the case of Frey
is not affected by subsequent decisions.
183 N. Y. 267; Maxwell v. Martin, 130

177.
v. Torrey, supra,
Tindle v. Birkett,
App. Div. (N. Y.)

80; Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S. 176; Tindle v. Birkett,

205 U. S. 183.
There is no inconsistency between a suit in assumpsit
based on a contract, and an action for deceit for false
representations in inducing the making of the contract. Bowen v. Mandeville, 95 N. Y. 237; Siltz v.
Springer, 236 Illinois, 276; Mallory v. Leach, 35 Vermont,

156.
Filing a claim in the Bankruptcy Court and having
it allowed does not effect a merger with a claim for deceit
in obtaining the property by false representations.
Those who have claims not released by a discharge,
are not "parties in interest." Collier on Bankruptcy
(9th ed.), p. 262; In re Servis, 140 Fed. Rep. 222.
The confirmation of composition did not discharge
Taicott's claim for deceit.
The Bankruptcy Act expressly excepts liabilities for
procuring property by false representations from the
effect of a discharge. Bankruptcy Act, § 17a (2).
Before the amendment, the act excepted from discharges only judgments based on false representations.
Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S. 176.

A discharge does not release liabilities arising out of
deceit or any tort excepted by the statute. In re Lewensohn, 99 Fed. Rep. 73; -Taylor V_' Farmer, 81 Kentucky,
458; .Turner v. Atwood, 124 Massachusetts, 411; Nelson
v. Petterson, i31 Ill. App. 443, 450, aff'd in 229 Illinois,
240; 82 N. E. Rep. 229; Katzenstein v. Reid, supra.

FRIEND v. TALCOTT.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

holding a judgment that is not dischargeable
under the act may oppose a discharge and still recover
on the judgment. Tinker v. Colwell, 193 U. S. 473;
Audubon v. Shufeldt, 181 U. S. 575.
The proper practice is to grant a discharge and try
the question whether a given claim is barred by the discharge when a suit is commenced on such claim. Collier
on Bankruptcy (9th ed.), p. 311; In re Rhutassel, 96 Fed.
Rep. 597; In re Thomas, 92 Fed. Rep. 912; In re Tinker,
99 Fed. Rep. 79.
Section- 14 and 17 are not in conflict. Under them a
creditor has two rights, first, to prevent a discharge, and,
second, to recover for the fraud practiced on him.
IOne

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
On February 1, 1904, the'commercial firm of Friend,
Moss & Morris, and its members, were adjudicated bankrupts. As the issues here to be considered are unaffected
thereby and the subject was treated as irrelevant by the
courts below and no question concerning it is insisted -on
by the respondent, we put out of view an order subsequently made setting aside the adjudication as to the
members of the firm individually.
Talcott, the respondent, was allowed a claim for
$3,204.91, the unpaid price of goods sold to the firm on
credit. The firm, availing of the right to make a composition with its creditors, given by §§ 12 and 13 ofthe
Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, 549,
asked the court to approve a proposed composition.
Talcott, among others, opposed, upon the ground- that
the bankrupt had procured the sale on credit of the goods,
the price of which formed the basis of his (Talcott's)
allowed claim, by means of false reports made to a commercial agency of the financiaL condition of the firm. The
VOL. ccxxvIII-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

specification of the grounds of objection just stated is
in the margin.i
reproduced
Before a master the bankrupt contended
that the objection of Talcott was insufficient because even if the facts
were true they. were inadequate to prevent the approval
of the composition. The master, accepting that view,
without taking testimony, reported in favor of approval.
The report on the subject was as follows:
"' to specification No. 8 of James Talcott, referred to,
I am of the opinion that a reasonable and proper construction of section 14b (3) would require the 'materially
false statements in writing' to be made directly to the
creditor in question, and I :deem the allegations in this
specification which are to the effect that the alleged false
statement was made to a commercial agency to be inThat said bankrupts obtained from said James Talcott and from
other creditors property upon credit upon a materially falsestatement
in writing made to said creditors for the purpose of obtaining such
property upon credit; that said statement was so inade on or about
the 21st day of Janiiary, 1903, to Wooda Dry Goods Commercial
Agency, which, as said bankrupts knew, was a, commercial agency
engaged in the business of receiving statements of the financial condition of persons applying for the purchase of goods upon credit and
to be communicated to those from whom they sought such credit;
that said statement was duly communicated to said. James Talcott
and to others by said/Commercial Agency for the purpose of being
acted upon :by them in selling goods to said bankrupts upon credit,
and that thereafter said James Talcott and others did sell and deliver
goods to said bankrupts upon credit, relying upon said statement;
that by the statement so made in writing by said bankrupts it was
averred that they had a net surplus-on January lst, 1903, of ninetytWo,thousand nine hundred and eighty-eight and 95-100 dollars over
and above all debts and liabilities, whereas, in truth and in fact, they
-had no surplug over and akove their debts, but were wholly isorvent.
All of which facts were well known to said bankrupts at the time said
statement was made, but were not known to said James Talcott and
other creditors who sold goods- to..said bankrupts in reliance upon
said statement, until after the filing of the petition in bankruptcy
herein.

FREND v. TALCOTT.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sufficient, and I am of the opinion that the specification
should be overruled for this reason."
This report was objected to by Talcott on the ground
that the master erred in refusing to take proof as to the
alleged false statements and in treating them as legally
insufficient. The objections were overruled and the report
was confirmed. The order of confirmation, following the
requirements of paragraph d of § 12 (30 Stat. 550), recited
that the composition was "for the best interest of the
creditors," and "that the bankrupt has not been guilty
of any of the acts or failed to perform any of the duties
which would be a bar to a discharge." The result was to
give the bankrupt a general discharge in virtue of subdivision c of § 14 (30 Stat. &50), which says: "The confirmation of the composition shall discharge the bankrupt
from his debts, other than those agreed to be paid by the
terms of the composition and those not affected by a
discharge."
In April, 1905-about a year after the compositionTalcott commenced this action to-recover from the former
bankrupt firm the damages suffered by him because of
deceit practiced in procuring the sale of *goods on credit.
The deceit relied upon was the deceit which had., been
alleged as a basis for the opposition to the composition,
that is, false reports made in writing to a commercial
agency as to the financial condition of the firm, except
that in one count no mention was made of the commercial
agency. On the face of the declaration the sales asserted
to have been made were the same sales the price of which
formed the basis of the claim filed and allowed, and if not
'accurately, at least approximately the amount of the
damage sought to be recovered was the difference between
the aggregate price of'such sales diminished by the extent
of the distribution paid upon the composition. In addition to the general issue the defendants set up as res
judicata the order arising from confirmation of the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

position. The cause was heard upon the issue of former
adjudication, and judgment was enteied in favor of the
defendants, the judgment reciting that the matters and
things involved in the suit had been fully adjudicated in
the bankruptcy proceedings. On reviewing the cause the
Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that the act of Talcott
in going into the bankruptcy proceedings and proving his
claim as one on contract did not constitute an election by
him to be bound by the discharge if otherwise under the
Bankruptcy Act the claim was excepted from such discharge, and that the fact of participating in the bankruptcy proceeding for the purpose of obtaining the benefits of the distribution therein made was not a waiver by
Talcott of his right to proceed in an action for deceit to
collect the deficiency notwithstanding the discharge.
The court, moreover, decided that the opposition to the
composition, its confirmation and the resulting general discharge did not' constitute the thing adjudged, estopping
Talcott from asser,'ng that his claim for damages suffered
by the deceit was riot embraced by the discharge.
The judgment of the trial court was therefore reversed179 Fed. Rep. 676-and the case is here on the allowance
of a certiorari.
There is a contention that the questions of waiver and
election, although passed on by the court below, are not
open for our consideration because it is asserted they were
not raised in or considered by the trial court. As we think
the contention is without merit, we proceed to dispose of
the propositions concerning election and waiver and res
judicata. In doing so- we shall direct our attention to
four propositions taken from one of the printed arguments
on behalf of the petitioners and which we think embrace
all the contentions relied upon. The propositions axe
these:
1. The record of the bankruptcy proceedings evidenced

FRIEND v. TALCOTT.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an election of remedies by respondent which barred his
suit for fraudulent representations.
2. The order confirming the composition discharged
petitioners from respondent's claim.
3. The order confirming the composition was a complete adjudication against respondent's right of action.
4. Neither the reasons assigned by the District Court
for holding respondent's specifications insufficient, nor
such holding itself, detract from the legal efficacy of the
order confirming the composition as an adjudication of
the rights of the parties.
At the outset it is to be observed that the propositions
are redundant since they really involve only two distinct
contentions: first, election and resulting waiver from the
proof by Talcott of his claim in bafilkruptcy and'his participation in the distribution arising from the composition,
and second, the binding force of the discharge on the claim
of Talcott, because of the force of the thing adjudged
resulting from the order approving the composition over
the objection of Talcott and the general statutory discharge which resulted.
Coming to dispose of the first contention, we put out
of view as irrelevant much that is urged in argument concerning what constitutes an election and waiver in the
general sense, since the question here for decision is only
whether there was a waiver or election under and for the
purposes of the bankrupt law'
The theory of election and waiver arising from the
proof of the claim in bankruptcy as one upon contract
where the right to sue in tort also existed must rest upon
the assumption that it was within the power of the creditor
to exercise an election to come under the operation of the
bankruptcy proceedings and thus to be bound by the
result of such proceedings or to stay out and escape the
operation of the act. This must be the case, as it is impossible to conceive of a right of election in a case where

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

no such right existed. But this theory has been expressly
decided to be without foundation. Crawford v. Burke,
195 U. S. 176. In that case the ruling was that where a
debt was of such a character as to cause it to be within
the'power of the creditor to enforce the same as an obligation arising on contract or if he chose to do so as one in
tort, as from the point of view of contract the debt was
provable in bankruptcy, even conceding that it might
not be so provable if the tort was relied upon, that it was
the duty of the creditor to prove as under contract, and
if he abstained from so doing his debt or claim being
provable was operated upon and barred by the proceedings. The theory of election and waiver being thus established to be unreal, there is of course nothing left for
the proposition to rest upon. But it is said Crawford v.
Burke is inapposite because in that case although the claim
under consideration involved both the elements of contract and tort, as no judgment had been entered establishing the tort, under the bankrupt law as then existing the
debt was not excepted from a discharge, while here, in
consequence of the amendment of 1903, the debt if there
has been no waiver is excepted from the discharge. This
being the case it is urged that an election and waiver resulted from the act of the debtor in proving his claim as on
contract and thus taking advantage of the bankruptcy
proceedings and thereby obtaining rights or benefits which
he would not have had if he had stayed out and thus
saved his right to be freed from the operation of the
discharge. But this distinction is also wholly without
foundation. Its error lies in assuming that the right which
the bankrupt act confers upon enumerated classes of debts
to be exempt from the operation of a discharge rests upon
the conception that such debts are exempt because they
are excluded from the act and may not participate in
the distribution of assets. That is to say, the confusion
lies in not distinguishing between creditors who are ex-

FRIEND v. TALCOTT.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eluded from the bankrupt act and those who although
included therein have had conferred upon them the benefit
of an exception from the operation of the discharge. Even
a superficial analysis of the text of the Bankruptcy Act
will make this clear. Thus § 63a and b (30 Stat. 562)
enumerates the debts which may be proved and which are
therefore entitled to participate in the benefits of the act
and are bound by its provisions, including a discharge.
Section 17 (30 Stat. 550) enumerates the debts not affected
by a discharge, that is, those exempted from its operation.
It is apparent that the exemptions do not rest upon any
theory of the exclusion of the creditor from the bankrupt
act or of deprivation of right to participate in the distribution, but solely on the ground that although such rights
are enjoyed, an exemption from the effect of the discharge
is superadded. The text leaves no room for any other
view, since the exceptions in terms are accorded to certain
classes of debts which-are provable under § 63, and therefore debts which are entitled to participate in the distribution, the language being:" A discharge in bankruptcy shall
release a bankrupt from all of his provable debts, except
such as," etc.
And a brief reference to the more important of the prior
bankruptcy acts throws abundant light on the text.
The Bankruptcy Act of August 19, 1841, c. 9, 5 Stat. 440,
in the first section comprehensively stated the classes
of claims which were embraced within its scope and expressly excluded certain enumerated classes. No exemption from the operation of a discharge when granted
was conferred, and therefore all who were within the scope
of the act, while enjoying its benefits, were bound by
its burdens. Under this act, in Chapman v. Forsyth,
2 How. 202, it was held that although a claim was excluded from the law if brought in by the voluntary act
of the creditor and he thereby participated in the distribution, the creditor by such election waived his right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

be treated as not bound by the statute, and consequently
the debt or claim was discharged. The Bankruptcy Act
of March 2, 1867, c. 176, 14 Stat. 517, presumably to
correct the injustice which arose from excluding from
all participation in the distribution of assets those creditors whom it was thought because of the meritorious nature of their debt should not be bound by the discharge,
departed from the system of excluding such creditors
from the act and on the contrary adopted the principle
of including them in the benefits of the act and yet at
the same time exempting them from the operation of the
discharge. To accomplish this result, § 19 of the act
(14 Stat. 525) made a most comprehensive enumeration
of provable debts, including as well unliquidated damages
for torts as for breaches of contracts. Those things
which in the act of 1841 were stated to be excluded from
the operation of the act were embodied in a particular
section (§33, 14 Stat. 333) dealing with exemptions from
discharge, and to avoid all possible misconception the
section provided " . . . but the debt may be proved,
and the dividend thereon shall be a payment on account
of said debt." It is obvious that the present act embodies
the same policy, since the exemptions from discharge
which are given by the statute are found in a section devoted to that subject and are stated in words, as we have
said, to be exemptions from discharge allowed in favor
of provable debts, that is, debts entitled to participate
which are given the benefit of an exemption from the
operation of the discharge.
While the considerations just stated dispose of the
question of waiver and election, they virtually also serve
to indicate the error which underlies the contention as to
res judicata, that is, a confusion of thought arising from
treating things which are different as one and the same.
To constitute res judicata, it is elementary that there must
be identity of cause between the two cases. In view of

FRIEND v. TALCOTT.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the text of the bankrupt law, the distinction which it
makes between the general discharge and the right of
a particular creditor to be exempt from the operation
of such discharge, it needs but statement to demonstrate
the difference of cause which necessarily obtains between
determining on the one hand in favor of the bankrupt
whether he is -entitled to a general discharge and of deciding on the other, as-between a particular creditor and
the bankrupt, whether the claim of that creditor is of
such a character as to be exempt from the operation
of a discharge. Nothing could more clearly emphasize
the distinction which exists between the two subjectsthat is, the granting of a general discharge and the question after it is granted whether a particular debt is exempted by law from its operation-than does the provision of the statute (§ 14c, 30 Stat. 550) authorizing a
general discharge as the result of an approval of a composition, since it expressly reserves from the operation of such
discharge of the bankrupt from his debts, "those not
affected by a discharge." It is elaborately argued, however, that whatever be the infirmity of the decree of confirmation as res judicata in the complete sense, that decree was necessarily binding in so far as it established
relevant facts which were at issue between the parties
and therefore is here conclusive. But the proposition
rests upon an unfounided assumption, as nothing in the
assertion of the right to be exempt from the operation of
the discharge here relied upon involves a traverse or
denial of any relevant fact established as a result of the
approval of the composition. On the contrary, as we have
seen, the facts here relied upon to establish the exemption
from discharge, are the facts which were conceded to
exist and were not traversed for the purpose of the hearing
on the composition.
Conceding for the sake of argument that the facts which
were alleged as the basis of the opposition to the approval

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

of the composition were sufficient, had the law been rightly
applied, to have prevented the approval of the composition,
such concession would afford no ground for holding that
because one case in matter of law was erroneously decided,
that such decision should conclusively establish the duty
to erroneously decide another and distinct case. If, on
the other hand, it be conceded that the composition was
rightfully approved, as the determination of that subject
did not under the very terms of the statute involve passing
upon the separate and distinct claim of creditors to be
exempt from the operation of the discharge, it results
that in no view of the case is there merit in the contention
as to res judicata. The contentions urged in many forms
based upon the recitals in the order of 'confirmation of
the composition made conformably to the statute as to
the absence of fraud or other wrongdoing, etc., is but a
reiteration of the contention as to res judicata which we
have shown to be without foundation.
Affirmed.

PLESTED v. ABBEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 156.

Argued January 31, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

'Subordinate officers of the Land Department are under the control,
and their acts are subject to the review, of their official superiorsthe Commissioner of the General Land Office and ultimately the
Secretary of the Interior.
Until the legal title to public land passes from the Government, inquiry as to all equitable rights comes within the cognizapce of the
Land Department. Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 433, 476.
Congress has placed the Land Department under -the supervision
and control of the Secretary of the Interior, a special tribunal with

