OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

228 U. S.

The giving of the signals under the circumstances of this
case was not the giving of orders, but of information, and
the obedience to those signals showed co~peration rather
than subordination, and is not enough to show that there
has been a change of masters" (id., p. 226).
In the present case, the Fuller Company obtained the
use of the elevator, and the operator, from the Otis Company, and paid therefor. But the Otis Company had
nothing to do with the arrangement with the Mackay
Company. To this transaction, and to the employing of
the top of the elevator as a movable platform for the
painters, the Otis Company was a stranger. The Fuller
Company, having obtained the use of the elevator, agreed
to supply it to the Mackay Company and undertook to
furnish that company the necessary service in operating
it; it asserted control for this purpose, and assumed the
duty of operating with proper care.
Judgment atfirmed.

HEBERT v. CRAWFORD, TRUSTEE, AND
LEBLANC.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 83.

Submitted December 9, 1912.-Decided April 7, 1913.

Whatever may be the legal rights of one claiming legal or equitable
title to an asset, the fact that the bankrupt and his trustee had
physical possession thereof gives the bankruptcy court control of
the res and authority to administer it.
A petition to determine title to property in the possession of the bankrupt and his trustee may, as in this case, operate as an attachment,
and thus bring the property into the custody and under the exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court.

HEBERT v. CRAWFORD.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A finding in a summary proceeding that the trustee has received
physical possession of the property involved is conclusive against
him and is not subject to collateral attack by third persons. Noble v.
Union River Logging Company, 147 U. S. 173.
While the state court has jurisdiction to determine as between partners
whether one is entitled to use the assets of his partnership to satisfy
an order made in a summary proceeding in the bankruptcy court,
and also whether the receiver received the same, it may not determine title to propery in the possession of the trustee or who is entitled to possession thereof.

THE facts, which involve the rights of the trustee in
bankruptcy and others in a crop of rice grown by the
bankrupt and the jurisdiction of the state and Federal
courts of the controversies arising thereover, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick S. Tyler and Mr. A. D. Lipscomb for
appellants.
Mr. Horace Chilton and Mr. U. F. Short for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
This conflict of jurisdiction, between state court and
Bankruptcy Court, with injunction and counter-inj unction,
grew out of a controversy as to who was in possession of
a crop of rice, when Moore & Bridgeman, who had planted
it, filed their petition on July 16, 1906, to be adjudged
bankrupts. If the rice was then in their possession the
Bankruptcy Court had jurisdiction to administer it as assets
of the estate; and to determine all claims to the property.
Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102. Bryan v. Bernheimer,
181 U. S. 188. Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524.
The firm of Beaumont Mills claimed, however, that,
for value and in good faith, they had acquired the title
and possession of the rice on June 15, 1906, thirty days
before the petition in bankruptcy was filed; that they had

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

employed Moore & Bridgeman to harvest and deliver it,
and that LeBlanc, who was soon thereafter elected trustee, used labor, teams and machinery of the bankrupts in
harvesting and threshing the crop. The Beaumont Mills
paid him, as trustee, for these services and for hauling
and delivering the rice to them at their warehouse. This
they claim did not affect the jurisdiction of the state court
of any controversy as to the ownership and possession of
the crop.
Creditors of the bankrupts, on the other hand, denied
the title of the Beaumont Mills', insisting that the crop
belonged to Moore & Bridgeman, and that the delivery
by LeBlanc, trustee, was a conversion to his own use'and
that of the Beaumont Mills, of which firm he was a member. These creditors thereupon instituted summary proceedings in the Bankrupt Court to charge him with its
value. On that hearing two members of the firm of Beaumont Mills were sworn and testified as witnesses in his
behalf. The District Court found in favor of the creditors
and on December 17, 1907, entered an order reciting that
the rice was the property of Moore & Bfidgeman; that it
came into the possession of LeBlanc, as trustee; that he
improperly delivered it to the Beaumont Mills and was
chargeable with $11,651, its value. The court thereupon
directed that he pay that sum into the Registry of the
court within ten days. That judgment was affirmed
(166 Fed. Rep. 689).
LeBlanc was without funds with which to comply with
this order and claimed that, under the circumstances, he
had the right to withdraw $11,651-the value of the ricefrom the funds of the Beaumont Mills and deposit it in the
Registry of the court. The other members of the firm
resisted this claim and accordingly instituted proceedings
against him in the state court to prevent his carrying his
threat into execution. In March, 1909, a temporary
injunction was issued restraining him from withdrawing

HEBERT v. CRAWFORD.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

partnership assets for the purpose of paying the money
into the Bankrupt Court.
The creditors of Moore & Bridgeman contended that
they were not concerned with the suit between the partners or the source from which LeBlanc secured the money
to pay the judgment rendered against him on December 17,
1907. They therefore pressed for a compliance with that
order, and to avoid attachment for contempt, LeBlanc,
in disobedience of the Injunction, drew $11,651 from the
bank account of the Beaumont Mills, paid the firm's
money to the clerk of the Bankrupt Court, who deposited
it with the Gulf Bank and Crawford, elected to succeed
LeBlanc as trustee of Moore & Bridgeman.
The Beaumont Mills, at once, filed a Supplemental
Petition- in the state court making the Bank and Crawford, Trustee, defendants, and praying judgment against
both of them for the partnership money in their hands,
and for other and further relief. Crawford, in turn, immediately brought this bill, in the Bankrupt Court, to
enjoin the Beaumont Mills from prosecuting their suit
against him in the state court. He insisted that the Bankrupt Court had jurisdiction of the res and was, alone,
authorized to determine his right to retain the $11,651
paid over to him as Trustee. He contended also that
the order of December 17, 1907, in the Summary Proceedings was not only conclusive that the Bankrupt Court
had jurisdiction of the res, but he also insisted that as the
Beaumont Mills had taken part in that litigation, they
were bound by the finding that the crop belonged to Moore
& Bridgeman. A decree was rendered in Crawford's favor
by the District Court. It was affirmed by the court of Appeals and is brought here by the Beaumont Mills for review.
Crawford's contention must, in part, be sustained. For
whatever may have been the legal or equitable rights of the
Beaumont Mills under their contracts with Moore &
Bridgeman, and under the Bill of Sale of June 15, 1906, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1912

Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

still appears that, first, Moore & Bridgeman and, later,
LeBlanc, as trustee, engaged in gathering, threshing,
hauling and delivering the rice. This physical possession,
under the decision in Murphy v. Hofman Co., 211 U. S.
562, and cases cited, gave the Bankrupt Court control of
the res, and authority to administer it along with all
other property in their physical possession when their
petition was filed. That petition operated as an attachment and brought the rice into the custody of the Bankrupt Court.
"Where property was in the possession of the bankrupt
at the time of the appointment of a receiver . . . the
bankruptcy court had jurisdiction to determine the title
to it (569). . . . When the court of bankruptcy,
through the act of its officers, such as referees, receivers or
trustees, has taken possession of a res . . . it has
ancillary jurisdiction to hear and determine the adverse
claims of strangers to it, and its possession cannot be
disturbed by the process of another court." Murphy v.
Hofman Company, 211 U. S. 562, 569, 570, and authorities,
Nor was this jurisdiction lessened because LeBlanc,
trustee, after gathering the crop delivered the rice into
the possession of Beaumont Mills at their warehouse.
"The court had possession of the property and jurisdiction to hear and determine the interests of those claiming
a lien therein or ownership thereof. . . . This jurisdiction can [not] be ousted by a surrender of the property
by the receiver, without authority of the court." Whitney
v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539, 553.
Under these decisions the physical possession of the
crop brought the property within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Bankrupt Court. The finding in the Summary
Proceeding that LeBlanc had received possession, as
trustee, was conclusive against him, and was not subject
to collateral attack by third persons. Noble v. Union
River Company, 147 U. S. 165, 173-4, and cases cited.

HEBERT, v. CRAWFORD.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But that decision was not entered in a suit, in its nature
plenary, to try title, and was not binding upon the Beaumont Mills, even though two members of the firm testified as witnesses. It was an order in bankruptcy finding
that LeBlane, having been in possession of the property
as trustee, was accountable for its value. But it did not
determine what was to be done with the rice, or who
owned it, or whether the Beaumont Mills had a title
thereto or a lien thereon. All these matters were left open
for adjudication by the Bankrupt Court when plenary suits
were filed by any person having a claim to the property.
Or, since the rice had been withdrawn from the custody of
that court, the trustee could institute therein a suit for
the rice or its proceeds. He would hold the same when
recovered for the benefit of whomsoever might be determined to be entitled thereto in whole or in part.
None of these issues could be settled by LeBlanc. The
fact that he was trustee and at the same time a member
of the firm of Beaumont Mills, did not give him the right
to use partnership assets of any sort for the purpose of
satisfying the judgment rendered against himself, and by
a wrongful conversion of firm money rectify what had
been held to be a wrongful conversion of the bankrupt's
rice. There is no claim that the $11,651 had been earmarked or had been set apart as a specific fund to represent that property, or that what LeBlanc delivered to
Crawford was the same money that had been received
from the sale of the rice two years before. On the contrary, Crawford in his bill insists that the Beaumont Mills
"still have the rice or its proceeds," and the answer of
the Beaumont Mills avers that the money was checked
out by LeBlanc from the firm's bank account and deposited with Crawford.
That being 'so, LeBlanc was not authorized to draw out
this partnership money and hand the same over to Crawford, trustee, even though the latter may have had a
VOL. ccxxvii-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

claim against that firm for an equal amount. When LeBlanc threatened to misapply their assets whether $11,651
in money or corn or anything else of equal value, the other
partners were entitled to apply for equitable relief, and
the state court had jurisdiction to restrain him from using
money of the Beaumont Mills to satisfy his personal
obligation. As an incident of that jurisdiction the state
court could determine the liability of Crawford, trustee,
who received such money of the firm with notice that it
had been taken in violation of that injunction. In re
Kanter, 121 Fed. Rep. 984. In re Spitzer, 130 Fed. Rep.
879. In re Mertens, 147 Fed. Rep. 182. Cf. Act of August 13, 1888 (25 Stat. 433, 436, c. 866). For his representative capacity did not exempt him from liability for
wrongfully receiving or retaining these funds paid over
in disobedience of an injunction,-since money thus tortiously paid and held did not thereby become a part of
the res within the exclusive control of the Bankrupt Court.
The fact that the jurisdiction of the two courts is
limited, as a result of the Bankrupt Act, makes it impossible for either, without the consent of both parties, to
determine the whole controversy in one suit. The state
court has the right to try the question as to whether
Crawford and the bank received the money with notice
that it was partnership assets, and if so, to enter judgment
in favor of the Beaumont Mills. But it could not determine who was in possession of the rice on July 16, 1906,
or who was entitled to the property or its proceeds. That
matter had been drawn within the jurisdiction of the
Bankrupt Court by the order of December 17, 1907, and
that decision was not subject to review by the state court.
The decree must, therefore, be reversed in so far as it
enjoins the Beaumont Mills from suing Crawford, trustee,
for partnership assets paid into his hands in violation of
the state injunction ;-but without prejudice to the right
of Crawford, trustee, to proceed in the District Court of

LYLE v. PATTERSON.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

the United States against the Beaumont Mills for the
recovery of the rice, its proceeds, or its value, and without
prejudice to the right of the Beaumont Mills, in such
suit, to make any defense or to assert any claim, lien or
title to the property by reason of contracts and transactions with Moore & Bridgeman, Moore or others before
the petition in bankruptcy was filed.
The decree is reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

LYLE v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 167.

Argued March 5, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

Quwre, whether the benefits of the act of March 3, 1887, providing for
settlement of titles of purchasers in good faith from railroad companies not entitled to convey, are confined exclusively to those who
purchased prior to that date.
One suing to make a patentee trustee for himself can only recover on
the strength of his own equity and not on the defects in defendant's
title.
A possessory title to lands of the public domain acquired in good faith
from a railroad company afterwards held not to have earned the
land, by a purchaser who cultivated and improved the property, is
good as against all except the United States, and an attempted entry
by another before the land is restored to the public domain and reopened for entry is a trespass and initiates no rights in the property.
Possession, not based on a legal right but secured by violence and maintained with force and arms, cannot furnish the basis of a right enforceable in law.
A preemption right cannot be initiated without settlement, habitation
4pd improvement, Homer y. Wallace, 97 U. S. 579, and the same rule

