UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Argument for the United States.

228 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF, TEXAS.
No. 863.

Argued April 11, 1913.-Decided May 5, 1913.

In construing a statute a word used therein may be given the meaning it has in common speech, although it may have a narrower
technical meaning.
While the word "export" technically includes the landing in, as well
*as the shipment to a foreign country, it is often used as meaning
only the shipment from this country and it will be so construed when
used in a statute the manifest purpose of which would be defeated
by limiting the word to its strict technical meaning.
As used in the joint resolution of March 14, 1912, 37 Stat. 630, prohibiting exportation of munitions of war to American countries where
conditions of domestic violence exist, the word "export" refers to
any shipment of the prohibited articles from the United States
whether there was a landing thereof in the foreign country or
not.
Personal carriage of prohibited articles from this to a foreign country
does not render inapplicable the prohibition to export such articles
under the resolution of March 14, 1912.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the joint
resolution of March 14, 1912, 37 Stat. 630, relative to
shipment of arms and munitions of war to other American
countries during times of domestic violence therein and

what constitutes an exportation under such resolution,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins, with whom
Mr. Karl W. Kirchwey was on the brief, for the United
States:
Any willful act of transporting or shipping contraband

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

228 U. S.

articles from any point in the United States with Mexico
as the destination of such transportation or shipment is
criminal. Such is the natural meaning of the words used.
As to meaning of "export" see Swan v. United States, 190
U. S. 443; 17 Op.Attys. Genl. 583. As to tax on exported
articles, see Almy v. California, 24 How. 169; Clarke v.
Clarke, 3 Woods, 408; Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S.
283. As to tax on goods in interstate commerce, see Coe
v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 525; Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S.
504; Dooley v. United States, 183 U. S.151; Kidd v. Flagler, 54 Fed. Rep. 367; United States v. Forrester, 25 Fed.
Cas. No. 15132. As to shipment, see Fisher v. Minot, 10
Gray, 260, 262; Harrison v. Fortlage, 161 U. S. 57, 63;
Ledon v. Havemeyer, 121 N. Y. 179, 186. See also Century
Dictionary; Standard Dictionary.
The construction given resolution by court below is
inconsistent with purpose of its enactment and renders
enforcement practically impossible. This is clear from
evil sought to be remedied; means designed therefor.
The joint resolution of April 22, 1898, which formed the
basis of the present resolution, was adopted shortly after
the outbreak of the war with Spain in order to prevent the
exportation of coal or other war materials destined for the
ultimate use of the enemy. For circumstances leading to
its adoptiQn see debate in Congress upon its introduction.
Cong. Rec., vol..48, pt. 4, pp. 3257-3258; Cong. Rec.,
vol. 31,:pt.- 5, p. 4170. _
-The necessary consequences of the District Court's
ruling is demonstrated Uy3the inefficacy of theresolution
as interpreted below. In the present case the accused isbound for Mexico with the contraband articles on his person. According to the District Court he has committed
no offense until he enters Mexico. But he is then beyond
the reach of process of a Federal court. At the instant
of the completion of his offense, therefore, he escapes
from the jurisdiction of the. United States. Nor is -his

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

offense extradictable. (See extradition treaty with Mexico
of Feb. 22, 1899, 31 Stat. 1818.) The resolution was obviously designed to prevent individuals while in this
country, and beyond the reach of Mexican authorities,
from aiding the revolution in Mexico; and these are the
very individuals whom the existing law, as construed
below, is powerless to touch. Under this construction, a
Mexican might safely cross the border into the United
States, stack up with all the munitions of war he could
carry, recross the boundary into Mexico, and then come
back here for more-provided only that on subsequent
trips the offender took care to avoid recognition and arrest
for his prior offense.
Whatever. mode of transportation was adopted the
United States authorities certainly could not intercept
the shipment, but must allow it to cross the boundary
and proceed to its destination. Except for the deterrent
effect of an occasional conviction the resolution would
wholly fail as a measure of prevention. There is a strong
presumption against that construction of a statute which
virtually nullifies it and defeats its object, or which leads
to the manifest absurdities heretofore suggested. United
States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 396.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE WmrTE delivered the opinion of the

court.
By virtue of the act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246,
c. 2564, this direct writ of error is prosecuted for the
purpose of reversing the judgment below because of an
alleged erroneous construction given by the court to the
joint resolution of March 14, 1912, 37 Stat. 630, in consequence of which the indictment in this case was quashed
because stating no offense against the provisions of the
joint resolution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

The charging part of the indictmentis as follows:
"That heretofore, to-wit: on the third day of May,
A. D. 1912, in the City and County of El Paso, in the
State of Texas, in the Western District of Texas, and
within the jurisdiction of this Court, one Arnulfo Chavez,
alias Arnuto Chavez, late of said district, did unlawfully,
knowingly, wilfully and with intent to export the munitions of war hereinafter described from the said City of
El Paso to Ciudad Juarez in Mexico, make a certain shipment of certain munitions of war, to-wit: two thousand
(2,000) Winchester cartridges of the caliber 30-30, that
is to say, did make a shipment of said munitions of war
from said City of, El Paso and with said Ciudad Juarez in
Mexico as the destination of said shipment, by transporting the same on his person from a point the exact location
of which is to your Grand Jury unknown and hence not
here given, near the intersection of North El Paso and
San Francisco Streets in the City of El Paso to a point,
the exact location of which is to your Grand Jury unknown
and hence not here given, but which is near the intersection
of South Stanton and Fifth Streets in the 'said City of
El Paso."
The joint resolution is as follows:
"SECTION 1. That whenever the President shall find
that in any American country conditions of domestic
violence exist which are promoted by the use of arms or
munitions of war procured from the United States, and
shall make proclamation thereof, it shall be unlawful to
export except under such limitations and exceptions as
the President shall prescribe any arms or munitions of
war from any place in the United States to such country
until otherwise ordered by the President or by Congress.
"SEc. 2. That any shipment of material hereby declared unlawful after such a proclamation shall be punishable by fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars, or by
imprisonment not exceeding two years, or both."

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The proclamation of the President applying without
exception or limitation the provisions of the resolution to
Mexico was issued April 12, 1912. Proclamations 1912,
p. 57.
Considering it to be indisputable that two acts are
essential to constitute export in the legal sense, a shipment
from this country to a foreign country and the landing of
the goods in such foreign country, the court below held
that no transgression of the prohibition of the first section, making it unlawful to export, could arise from the
facts charged, because they alleged-giving them the
most favorable view to the Government-but a shipment
from this country to Mexico unconsummated by delivery
in the foreign country. Coming to consider the second
section, it was held that the act punished by that section
was the exportation prohibited by the first section, and
hence the charge of shipment without ai averment of
landing in the foreign country stated no offense punishable
by the second section. The court said:
"The allegations of the indictment, as understood by
the court, charge in effect that the defendant attempted
to export munitions of war-nothing more; and as the
joint resolution is directed against actual exportation and
not merely the attempt to export, the acts charged against
the defendant are not embraced within the prohibition.
The word 'shipment,' employed in connection with the
words 'material hereby declared -unlawful' can only refer,
in the judgment of' the court, to' material shipped, exported, to the country where the disturbance exists, since
it is only such material that is declared to be unlawful by
the first section of the resolution, defining the offense."
In common speech the shipment of goods from this to
a foreign country without regard to their landing in such
country is often spoken of as an export. It is true also
that for the purposes of the provisions of ยง 9, Article I, of
the Constitution, prohibiting the laying by Congress of
VOL. ccxxviii-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

a tax or duty "on articles exported from any State" and of
ยง 10, Article I, forbidding any State, without the consent
of Congress, to "lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports," a shipment is considered as the initiation of
export so as to bring the goods shipped within the protection of the constitutional safeguards. Almy v. California, 24 How. 169; Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S.
983. Despite, however, the significance given to the
words to export in these cases, it is nevertheless certain,
as stated by the court below, that by a practically unanimous concensus of opinion, accurately speaking, exportation in the complete sense consists of two essential ingredients-the sending of merchandise from this to a
foreign country and its landing in such country. But the
question which we are called upon to solve, that is, the
meaning of the words "to export" as used in the joint
resolution, may not be disposed of by any mere abstract
consideration of the meaning of the words, but their
signification must be determined with reference to the
text of the resolution itself.
Putting out of view the parenthetical clause in the text
of the resolution concerning the proclamation of the
President, it reads as follows: "it shall be unlawful to
export any arms or munitions of war from any place in
the United States to such country," that is, the country
brought within the terms of the resolution by a proclamation of the President. Conceding for argument's sake that
if the words to export stood alone in the text, that is,
were not accompanied by explanatory or defining words,
they would have to be interpreted with reference to the
meaning of export in the complete sense, that is, as including landing in the foreign country, such concession is not
here controlling or persuasive. We say this because, as
we have seen, the words to export are expressly qualified
by a clause which serves, in a sense, to define their meaning and, at all events, to make clear the nature and char-

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

acter of the acts intended to be embraced by the prohibition against exporting. In othe? words, the resolution
does not say it shall be unlawfuf to export, but it adds,
"any arms or munitions of war from any place in the
United States to such foreign country." In view of the
accepted significance of the words to export when used in
their complete sense and of the fact that in the preceding
sentences of the resolution the causes leading to its adoption are expressly stated to be the violence and confusion
sometimes promoted in foreign countries "by the use of
arms or munitions of war procured from the United States,"
the insertion of words of definition and the omission from
such words of all reference to landing of the prohibited
merchandise would seem to make it clear that the prohibition of the resolution was directed against the act of
sending from this to the foreign and prohibited country
without reference to the completion of such act by the
landing or delivery of the prohibited merchandise at its
destination; in other words, that the object was to forbid
the act of shipment from the United States of the prohibited munitions of war to a foreign country, without
reference to the fulfillment of the complete act of export
by the landing of the contraband goods. If there be room
for hesitancy, that is to say, ambiguity, as to the correctness of this construction of the first section, we think
there can be no ground for such doubt if the context of
the resolution be considered, that is, if the second section
be taken into view as illustrating and making clear the
text of the first section. There can be no doubt that the
object of the second section was to make the prohibition
of the first section operative by punishing violations of
its provisions. Now, the second section does not purport
to punish the act of exporting, but in express terms it
only punishes "any shipment," thus affixing the construction which we have given to the first section and
causing it in reason to be impossible to say that the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

section simply prohibits export in the completed sense.
And this construction of the second section becomes
irresistible when it is observed that for the purpose of
preventing misconception the words "any shipment" are
explained and their meaning made more emphatic by the.
declaration that they constitute the act "hereby made
unlawful," thus again in express terms affixing a significance to the first section and confirming the meaning
which we have given it.
And if the legislative intent manifested on the face of
the joint resolution and derived from a consideration of
the evil against which it was obviously intended to provide
be taken into view, it is not difficult to perceive the reasons which led to the prohibition against and punishment
of shipment instead of export in the complete sense. As
we have previously observed, the terms of the resolution
show that it was the means afforded for the promotion
of turmoil and violence in certain foreign countries by the
use of arms and munitions of war derived from the United
States which gave rise to the passage of the resolution.
But to have merely prohibited and punished the export,
in the complete sense, of arms and munitions, would not
have served to prevent the continued future delivery of
such arms, etc., except as the anticipation of punishment
might serve as a deterrent. On the other hand, as shipments from the United States were the source of the evil,
a prohibition against such shipments and punishment for
making them not only exerted all the deterrent influence
which could possibly have arisen from punishing export,
but besides would reach the acts done in the United States
which were the generative source of the trouble and hence
afford the means of putting an effective stop to the evil
which it was the purpose to suppress. Although no question is raised on the subject, as in consequence of the construction we affix to the joint resolution we shall reverse
and remand, we deem it well to say that merely because

UNITED STATES v. MESA.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

resort was had to personal carriage as a means of moving
the prohibited articles from this to a foreign country
would not render inapplicable the prohibition against any
shipment.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. MESA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 864.

Argued April 11, 1913.-Decided May 5, 1913.

Decided on authority of preceding case.

199 Fed. Rep. 518, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins, with whom Mr.
Karl W. Kirchwey was on the brief, for the United States.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The defendant in error was indicted upon the charge
that within the jurisdiction of the court he "did unlawfully, knowingly, wilfully and with intent to export the
munitions of war hereinafter described from the said city
of El Paso to Ciudad Juarez, in Mexico, make a' certain
shipment of certain munitions of war, to-wit: three thousand (3,000) Winchester rifle cartridges of the calibre 44;
that is to say, did make a shipment of said munitions of
war from said city of El Paso and with said Ciudad Juarez,
in Mexico, as the destination of said shipment, by transporting the same in a wagon from a point," etc.

