OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

UNITED STATES EX REL. KNIGHT v. LANE,
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.'
IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 163'

Argued March 5, 6, 1913.-Decided March 17, 1913.

Until the legal title to public land passes from the Government, inquiry as to all equitable rights comes within the cognizance of the
Land Department. Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473.
Until the matter is closed by final action the proceedings of an officer
of a department are as much open to review or reversal by himself or
his successor as are the interlocutory decrees of a court open to review upon the final hearing. New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261.
A decision of the -Secretary of the Interior revoking his prior approval
of an adjustment between contestants, one of whom is a minor, and
which is not arbitrary or capricious, but given after a hearing and
in the exercise of the discretion confided to him by law, cannot be
reviewed, nor can he be compelled to retract it, by mandamus.
Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683.
The power given by the act of July 1, 1902, providing for allotment of
Cherokee lands in severalty, to the Secretary of the Interior to decide
between -contestants, is not exhausted by a decision approving a
settlement and directing deeds to be submitted to him for approval.
- Such a decision is interlocutory and not final and'power still remained to reconsider and revoke.
35 App. D. C. 429, affirmed.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of the act

of Congress allotting Cherokee lands in severalty and the

power of the Secretary of the Interior thereunder to determine contests and to reconsider his decisions thereon,
are stated in the opinion.
Original docket title United States ex rel. Knight v. Richard A. Ballinger, Secretary of the Interior, subsequently changed to Same v.
Walter L. Fisher, Secretary &c. and subsequently changed to Same v.
Franklin K. Lane, Secretary &c.

KNIGHT v. LANE.
228 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. James W.
Zeverly, Mr. James M. Givens and Mr. Richard Win.
Stoutz were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The execution by the principal chief of the Cherokee
Nation of the patent in favor of Knight, under the circumstances of this case, rendered the issuance of an allotment certificate unnecessary The patent itself contained within its four corners all pertinent recitals of
such a certificate and in addition the appropriate words
of grant and conveyance necessary to vest in the'patentee
title to the lands described. The patent being at least
equal in legal potency to and certainly of greater dignity
than an allotment certificate, the execution and delivery
of the former by the principal chief materially advanced
the mutation of title to the lands described therein beyond the point usually indicated by the issuance of the
latter. In the absence of fraud or mistake, and neither is
shown to have had existence in these proceedings, the
rights of the patentee in and to the land became fixed and
vested, and thereafter the Secretary of the Interior had
but the ministerial power and duty of effecting the recordation and delivery of the patent, "a duty which, within
all the definitions, can be enforced by the writ of mandamus." Ballinger v. Frost, 216 U. S. 240i
As in Frost's Case so in the case at bar, the authorities
especially and exclusively, empowered by the pertinent
acts of Congress had executedunder the great seal of the
Cherokee Nation a patent for the lands embraced therein
to Knigbt:
As in Frost's Case so in the case at bar nothing remained
to be done by the Secretary. but the purely perfunctory
and ministerial duty of noting his "approval" thereon
and seeing that it Was duly delivered to the patentee.
See Garfield y. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249; Roberts v. United
States, 176 U. S. 221; Noble v. Union River Logging Co.,
147 U. S. 165; Fraherv. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 112; Butter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

worth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50; United States v. Schurz, 102
U. S. 378; Barney v. Dolph, 97 U. S. 652.
In view of the circumstances and particularly in view
of the large sums of money paid to and remaining in the
possession of the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes
for the benefit of the minor, and the other large sums
expended upon the strength of the Secretary's decision,
and his telegram of instructions in improving and developing the lands by erecting derricks and drilling for oil,
the present case, while equally as strong in point of law
as any one of the cases above cited, excels them in all that
strength which equity and good faith add.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cobb, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Bullitt was on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This writ of error brings up for review a judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia (35 App.
D. C. 429) affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the District refusing a writ of mandamus commanding
the Secretary of the Interior to deliver to the relator a
patent for a tract of land claimed by the latter as a Cherokee allotment. The facts upon which the decision must
turn are these:
On August 21, 1907, a parcel of allottable land containing 50 acres, in the Cherokee Nation, was selected as an
allotment for Eva Waters, a minor Cherokee child belonging to the class whose rights to participate in the distribution and allotment of the tribal funds and lands were
sustained in the recent decision in Gritts v. Fisher, 224
U. S.640. A week later William Twist and the relator,
Herman Knight, enrolled Cherokees, respectively selected
the westerly 20 acres and the easterly 30 acres of the same

KNIGHT v. LANE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tract as allotments for themselves, and in furtherance of
their selections instituted contests against that of Eva
Waters. A hearing on Twist's contest resulted in a decision in his favor by the Commissioner to the Five Civilized
Tribes. On an appeal to the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs that decision was reversed, and a further appeal
carried the contest before the Secretary of the Interior.
Knight's contest was held in abeyance, before the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes, awaiting the
outcome of Twist's. In this situation negotiations were
had between representatives of Twist and Knight and the
parents of Eva Waters, acting in her behalf, looking to a
withdrawal of her selection, subject to the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior, in order that there might
be no obstacle to the allowance of the later selections of
Twist and Knight. The negotiations resulted in an application to the Secretary for permission to effect such
an adjustment of the two contests on the payment, for
the use of the minor, of an adequate consideration for
her potential interest in the land. After a hearing on this
application the Secretary, on May 10, 1909, rendered a
decision approving the proposed adjustment on condition
that there be paid, for the use of the minor, $10,000 for
her claim to the 20 acres in Twist's contest and $15,000
for her claim to the 30 acres in Knight's. The Secretary
then sent to the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes
the following telegram: "Lands in Twist and Knight
cases against Waters will be awarded to Twist and Knight
respectively upon payment of twenty-five thousand dollars for use of minor Waters, contestants given including
fifteenth to make payment .....

Prepare deeds to

respective contestants and have them executed and forwarded here for approval. Report promptly by wire."
Within the time named the $25,000 was paid to the Com-

missioner, for the use of the minor, and thereupon patents
to Twist and Knight were executed by the principal chief

OCTO3ER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

of the Cherokee Nation and were forwarded by the Commissioner to the Secretary for his approval.
Under the regulations governing the institution and
disposition of contests over allotments a party was accorded thirty days after a decision by the Secretary within
which to apply for a rehearing. Within this period the
parents of Eva Waters, acting in her behalf, applied to
the Secretary for a rehearing of the matter covered by his
decision of May 10, 1909, it being asserted in that connection that her potential interest was worth much more
than the sum named in the decision,,and that her parents'
consent to the adjustment had been grounded on inaccurate and misleading information. The application was
entertained, and, after a hearing thereon in which Twist
and Knight participated, the Secretary rendered a further
decision vacating the former one and disapproving the
proposed adjustment, on the ground that the consideration
which the minor was to receive was not at all adequate.
The Secretary also ruled that both contests should be
considered and disposed of on their merits and that the
$25,000 should be returned. The money was not actually
repaid, but this may have been because those who paid
it were as yet unwilling to take it back. In consequence
of his later decision the Secretary declined to approve the
patents executed by the principal chief, or to permit them
to be recorded or delivered.
On July 16, 1909, Knight's contest was called for hearing
before the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes in
pursuance of the Secretary's direction that it be considered ard disposed of on its merits, and Knight then appeared. and protested against any further steps therein,
insisting that in virtue of the matters here recited he had
acquired a fixed and absolute right to the patent and
that the administrative officers were without authority
to proceed with the contest. The protest was disregarded, and on the same day he applied to the Supreme

KNIGHT v. IANE.
228 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of the District of Columbia for a writ of mandamus,
as before indicated, to compel the Secretary of the Interior
to deliver to him the patent for the 30 acres and to perform
any other acts necessary to clothe him with the full legal
title.
The question for decision is, whether in the circumstances the Secretary was without authority to reconsider
and vacate 'his decision of May 10, 1909, approving the
proposed adjustment of the relator's contest, whereby the
minor, Eva Waters, was to withdraw her selection in consideration of the payment by the relator of $15,000 for her
use. It is frankly conceded by counsel for the relator, and
rightly so, that the adjustment could not have been made
without the Secretary's approval, which means- that he
possessed a power of decision in the matter. The act of
July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 725, c. 1375, under which the Cherokee lands were being allotted in severalty, shows that
Congress was solicitous not only that every member of
the tribe should receive an allotment (§§ 11, 16), out that
the rights of minors should be specially asserted and conserved (§70). And that it was intended to clothe the
Secretary with comprehensive powers is shown in the
provisions that all matters relating to allotments should
be determined under his direction (§ 22) and that all
things necessary to carry into effect the provisions of the
act, not otherwise therein specifically provided for, should
be done under his authority and direction (§ 65). The
question therefore is reduced to this: Was, his power of
decision exhausted when on May 10, 1909, he approved
the proposed adjustment? To this there can be only a
negative answer. That decision was not final, but interlocutory. In terms it shows that the patent was not to
be effective or delivered until he approved it, and the act
of 1902 declared that it must have his approval (§ 59).
Not only so, but, no statutory provision opposing, effect
.was to be given'to the regulation providing for rehearings

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
•Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

and allowing thirty days Within which to apply therefor.
Thus, it was as if the decision itself had. made provision
for a rehearing. Proper regard must also be had for the
fact that the act of April 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 137, c. 1876,
§ 5, expressly cop emplated that the title should not pass
until the patent was recorded in the office of the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes. In such a case we
perceive no reason for departing from the rule applicable
to kindred proceedings in the Land Department, which
is well stated in the following excerpts from the opinion
in Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 476-478:
"Until the legal title to public land passes from the
Government, inquiry as to all equitable rights comes
within the cognizance of the land department. In United
States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 396, which was an application for a mandamus to compel the delivery of a patent,
it was said: 'Congress has also enacted a system of laws
by which rights to these lands may be acquired, and the
title of the Government conveyed to the citizen. This
court has, with a strong hand, upheld the doctrine that
so long as the legal title to these lands remained in the
United States, and the proceedings for acquiring it were
as yet in fieri, the courts would not interfere to control the
exercise of the power thus vested in that tribunal. To
that doctrine we still adhere.'
"We do not mean to say that cases may not arise in
which a party is justified in coming into the courts of the
District to assert his rights as against a proceeding in
the land department or when the department refuses to
act at all. United States v. Schurz, supra, and Noble v.
Union River Logging Railroad Co., 147 U. S. 165, are
illustrative of these exceptional cases.
"Neither do we affirm that the administrative right of
the departments in reference to proceedings before them
justifies action without notice to parties interested, any

KNIGHT v. LANE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

more than the power of a court to determine legal and
equitable rights permits action without notice to parties
interested.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"But what we do affirm and reiterate is that power is
vested in the Departments to determine all questions of
equitable right or title, upon proper notice to the parties
interested, and that the courts must, as a general rule,
be resorted to only when the legal title has passed from
the Government."
As entirely apposite, we repeat the statement in New
Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 266: "Until the matter
is closed by final action, the proceedings of an officer of
a department are as much open to review or reversal by
himself, or his successor, as are the interlocutory decrees
of a court open to review upon the final hearing."
Inasmuch as the decision of the Secretary revoking his
prior approval of the proposed adjustment was not arbitrary or capricious, but was given after a hearing and in
the exercise of a judgment and discretion confided to him
by law, it cannot be reviewed, or he be compelled to retract it, by mandamus. Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683.
The decisions in Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249, and
Ballinger v. Frost, 216 U. S. 240, are not in conflict with
the views here expressed. In the former the writ was
awarded to compel the respondent to erase and disregard
an entry which he arbitrarily and without notice had
caused to be made upon a public record, thereby beclouding the relator's right to an Indian allotment. In the
latter the writ was awarded to compel the delivery of a
patent which was withheld solely through the unauthorized action of the Secretary in entertaining and sustaining a proceeding in the nature of a contest after the
expiration of the time limited by statute for instituting
such a proceeding.
Judgment affirmed.

