OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

plication for admission to the second-class privilege that
was made pending the suit, and granted, as already mentioned. They afford no proper ground for any kind of

relief in the present action.
Decree affirmed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 269.

Argued April 30, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

The Land Grant Adjustment Acts of 1887 and 1896 did not provide
for any recovery of interest on amounts for which the railroad companies were required to account for lands erroneously patented to
them and sold by them to bonafide settlers; and there was no liability
for such interest until the determination of the amounts for which
the companies were liable to account.
In view of the whole situation, and all the circumstances involved in
the determination of the amounts for which the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company was liable to account under the Land Grant
Adjustment Acts, held that such comp~any was not liable for interest
until after the amount due from it to the Government had been
liquidated, and should be computed ouly from tie date of the commencement of the suit brought by the Govern-ent to recover the
same.
187 Fed. Rep. 737, modified and affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Land
Grant Adjustment Acts and the liability of the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company thereunder for interest on
amounts received by it for land erroneously patented to
it, and the date from which such interest should be computed, are stated in the opinion.

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

610

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Maxwell Evarts for appellant:
The United States was not entitled to recover any
interest upon the amounts found to be due to it from the
railroad by reason of the sale to bona fide purchasers of
land which had been erroneously patented to the Railroad
Company.
Congress never had in mind in these Bona Fide Purchasers Acts anything more than to make the Government whole as if the erroneous patents had not -been
granted. The erroneous patents were no-fault of the Railroad Company. It was only after years of litigation that
the patents were held to be erroneous. At the time the
lands were granted nobody conceived that the lands were
improperly patented or that the Railroad Company was
not entitled to them. The Railroad Company has been
guilty of no wrong and the Government is not undertaking
to punish it for anything which it has done. If there was
any wrong committed by erroneously issuing the patents
to the Railroad it was a wrong committed by the United
States and not by the Railroad. The Government issued
the patents, not the Railroad. See 19 Op. Atty. Gen. 68,
72; Cong. Rev., Vol. 28, p. 1936.
If the Government is entitled to interest it can only be
(1) from the date of the suit, or (2) from the date when
the purchasers from the Railroad Company were held to be
bona fide purchasers. By § 4 of the act of March 3, 1887,
the Railroad Company is given ninety days after demand
within which to pay to the Government $1.25 per acre
for the land erroneously patented to it and conveyed by
it to bona fide purchasers.
The date from which interest can be claimed (if it can
be claimed at all) would be after the expiration of three
months or ninety days from the demand of the Secretary
of the Interior, and in the absence of knowledge of that
date that interest can be claimed only from the time of the
filing of the bill in this cause.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

228 U. S.

There is no theory upon which interest can be recovered
in this case from March 2, 1896. The statute does not
provide that in any action brought by the Government
to recover the minimum government price for lands erroneously patented to a railroad company and sold by it
to bona fide purchasers interest should be recovered from
the date of the act.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel, with whom
Mr. W. W. Dyar was on the brief, for the United
States:
Interest was recoverable. In California, where this
litigation was prosecuted, it is proper and lawful to allow
interest for the use or forbearance or detention of money
(Civ. Code, § 1915), and seven per cent, the rate assessed
by the Circuit Court, is the lawful rate in that State in
cases similar to the present.
In this country interest is the natural growth, or incident, of money, and bears the same relation to it that
rent does to land. Woerz v. Schumacher, 161 N. Y. 534,
536; Spalding v. Mason, 161 U. S. 375, 395; Stewart v.
Barnes, 153 U. S. 456, 462; 22 Cyc., p. 1473.
Whether interest should or should not be allowed often
rests largely in the discretion of the court.
In this case, as observed by the court below, the Railroad
Company has held in its possession and enjoyed the use
of money which, ex wquo et bono, belonged to the United
States. It would be indeed remarkable if a court of equity
were to allow this company the free use of public funds,
to which it had no right, which it was its duty not to use
but to pay over, and the payment of which, contrary to
its duty, it has resisted to this day. National Bank v.
Mechanics' Bank, 94 U. S. 437, 439.
The right to maintain the suit does not rest upon the
adjustment acts. They do not impose, and perhaps could
not impose, any obligation upon the company to pay the

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. 00. v. UNITED STATES. 621
228 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

moneys herein demanded. The Railroad Company never
had any right to the lands in question. By mutual mistake, however, of the Land Department and the company,
patents were issued and accepted. Thereafter the company sold the lands to good-faith purchasers and received
and retained the purchase moneys. In this situation the
Government had the right, independently of any statute,
to recover the moneys so received. Southern Pacific R. R.
Co. v. United States, No. 1, 200 U. S. 341, 352.
Interest being recoverable on a demand of this character,
there is nothing in the adjustment acts to take away the
right thereto. Stewart v. Barnes, 153 U. S. 456, 462.
Interest was properly calculated from March 2, 1896, the
date when the last of the adjustment acts became effective.
By the decisions in 146 U. S. 570 and 615, it had been determined that the Railroad Company had no right to the
lands in controversy and that by that act, and on its date,
the titles of the bona fide purchasers were confirmed. As
the lands then went to the purchasers (United States v.
Southern Pacific, 168 U. S. 1, 52), the right to the purchase
money, to the extent of $1.25 per acre, accrued to the
United States. The company being under an equitable
obligation to account to the United States, if it continued
to hold the moneys, was bound to pay the legal rate of
interest thereon.
The duty to account actually arose before the act of
1896 was passed. United States v. Southern Pacific R. R.
Co., 146 U. S. 570; United States v. Colton Marble Co., 146
U. S. 615; Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States, 168
U. S. 1.
It is no hardship for one who has had the use of money
owing to another to be required to pay interest thereon
from the time when the payment should have been made.
Spalding v. Mason, 161 U. S. 375, 396.
The mere pendency of litigation does not suspend interest unless the money is paid into court. Neither does

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

the uncertainty of the outcome. Potter v. Gardner, 5 Pet.
718, 721.
If any demand were necessary, a demand was made by'
the institution of suit No. 184, in 1891, Kaufman v.
•Tredway, 195 U. S. 271.
The 90-day period mentioned in § 4 of the act of 1887
respects only the duty of the Attorney General to bring
suit. The dates when the tracts were finally entered were
all prior to March 2, 1896. It was then, obviously, that
the claims were "confirmed" and the demands made.
Most of the patents were also prior to that date,. though a
few were subsequent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.

.

The grant made to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company by § 23 of the act of Congress approved -March 3,
1871 16,8tat. 573, c. 122, overlapped a prior grant made
to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company by the act
of-July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 292, c. 278. A forfeiture of the
latter grant by the act of July 6, 1886, 24 Stat. 123, c. 637,
was construed by the Land Department as causing the
lands within the overlap to inure to the benefit of the
Southern Pacific Company under its grant of 1871. In
consequence, patents for a. large quantity of land in California within the overlap were issued to the Southern
Pacific Company.
The act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, c. 376, entitled
"An act to provide'for the adjustment of land grants made
by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads, and
for the forfeiture of unearned lands, and for other purposes," among other things provided for the immediate
adjustment of all railroad land grants made by Congress;
and upon the completion of such adjustment, if it should
appear that lands had been, from any cause, erroneously

SOUTHERN PAC.R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

623

Opinion of the Court.

certified or patented by the United States to or for the use
or benefit of any company claiming by, through, or under
grant from the United States to aid in the construction of
a railroad, it was made the duty of the Secretary of the
Interior to demand from such company a relinquishment
or reconveyance to the United States of all such lands,
whether within granted or indemnity limits; and, if such
company should neglect or fail to so reconvey such lands
to the United States within 90 days after such demand, it
should thereupon be the duty of the Attorney General to
commence and prosecute in the proper courts, the necessary proceedings to cancel all patents, certificates, or
other evidences of title theretofore issued for such lands,
and to restore the title thereof to the United States. By
§ 4, citizens or persons who had declared their intention
to become citizens and who had purchased lands from the
railroad company in good faith, were authorized, on proof
of the fact after the adjustment of the grant, to acquire
-patents from the United States. And it was among other
things further provided that after-the issue of patent, demand should be made for payment by the company, which
had disposed of such lands, of an amount equal to the
government price of similar lands; and in case of neglect
or refusal to make payment within ninety days thereafter,
the Attorney General was -directed to cause a suit or suits
to be brought therefor.
Referring to suits brought under this act of 1887, in an
opinion delivered in United States v. Southern Pacific R.

Co., 39 Fed. Rep. 132, the District Court said (p. 137):
"While in these cases but a comparatively small amount
of land is involved, the suits, it seems from a decision of
the Secretary of the Interior rendered June 23, 1888, and
reported in volume 6 of the decisions of the Department
of the Interior, page 816, were instituted by the Government to test its right to a large amount of land similarly
situated. That decision was made upon an application

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

on the part of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
that it be called on, under the act of Congress of March 3,
1887, for a reconveyance of the lands which were held by
the Land Department to have been improperly patented
to said company, so that upon a refusal to reconvey, suits
might be brought by the Government to set aside such
patents, and that no further patents should be issued to
said company for lands in the limits of the forfeited grant
to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company; and also
that the then subsisting withdrawal of lands within the
primary grant limit of the Southern Pacific Railroad,
(branch line,) which are also within the granted and indemnity. limits of the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad, should
remain undisturbed until the rights of the Southern Pacific
Company could be determined by suits before the courts."
The court then observed, in substance, that the Secretary of the Interior acted favorably upon the application
so far as related to the bringing of the test suits and for
that purpose had divided "the lands covered by the grants
into three classes, to-wit: (1) Lands within the common
primary limits of the grant to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company and of the grant to the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, (branch line); (2) lands within the
primary limits of the grant to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, (branch line), and within the indemnity
limits of the grant to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad
Company; (3) lands within the indemnity limits of the
grant to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, (branch
line), and within the primary limits of the grant to the
Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company."
The suits just referred to would seem to have been
the first of the test suits. They were brought in 1889 by
the United States in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of California for the
purpose of quieting the title of the United States, to
various tracts of land situate within the overlapping limits,

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 625
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

aggregating about 5342 acres and claimed by the defendants, viz: the Southern Pacific Company and other corporations and individuals asserting title under that company.
The first of the cases involved lands within the grant or
place limits and the second lands within the indemnity
limits. No money recovery was prayed, other than costs
of suit. The cases were ultimately decided in this court
on December 12, 1892. United States v. Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, 146 U. S. 570; United States v. Colton Marble & Lime Company, 146 U. S. 615. A third
suit was begun by the United States in 1891, also to quiet
title, cancel patents, etc., in respect to lands within the
overlap. The Railroad Company, and the trustees under
a mortgage, and also certain individuals and corporations
were made defendants. The land affected by the suit
aggregated about 700,000 acres-61,939 acres of which
had theretofore been patented to the Railroad Company,
and applications were pending for patents as to 72,000
acres. Although this suit sought to quiet the title of
the Government to lands claimed by numerous individual
defendants by purchase from or contract with the railroad
company, the decree entered in the Circuit Court provided
that it should not "affect any right which the defendants,
or any of them, other than the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, now have or may hereafter acquire in, to, or
respecting any of the lands hereinbefore described in
virtue of the act of Congress entitled 'An act to provide
for the adjustment of land grants made by Congress to aid
in the construction of railroads, and for the forfeiture of unearned lands, and for other purposes,' approved March 3,
1887."
Despite the contention of the Railroad Company that
the decisions in the former cases reported in 146 U. S.,
settled merely the status of the particular lands involved
in that suit, it was held that those decisions were conclusive as to all the lands within the overlap. (168 U. S. 1).
voL. ccxxviii--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Therein also, in an opinion delivered on October 18, 1897,
after stating that the Circuit Court should have determined the rights of the defendants, other than the Railroad
Company, in the lands in dispute, by virtue of the act of
1887, it was said (p. 66): "The effect of the decree is to
leave undetermined the question whether the defendants
who claim under the Southern Pacific' Railroad Company
are protected by that act or any other act of Congress."
And the decree of affirmance rendered by this court was
made subject "to the right of the government to proceed
in the circuit court to a final decree as to those defendants."
While the last mentioned suit was pending in this court,
Congress passed an act, approved February 12, 1896, 29
Stat. 6, c. 18, amendatory of the act of 1887, wherein it
was further provided:
"That where such purchasers, their heirs or assigns, have
paid only a portion of the purchase price to the company,
which is less than the Government price of similar lands,
they shall be required, before the delivery of patent for
their lands, to pay to the Government a sum equal to the
difference between the portion of the purchase price so
paid and the Government price, and in such case the
amount demanded from the company shall be the amount
paid to it by such purchaser."
Congress also, on March 2, 1896, 29 Stat. 42, c. 39,
passed another act relating to the same general subject as
the act of March 3, 1887. The act of 1896, among other
things, provided for the extension of time within which
suits might be brought to vacate and annul land patents,
and provided that no patent to any lands held by the
bona fide purchaser should be vacated or annulled, but the
right and title of such purchaser was by the act confirmed.
In this connection it is to be borne in mind that the act
of 1887 contemplated that the original erroneous patents
or certifications should be annulled, and that new patents

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

627

Opinion of the Court.

should issue to bona fide purchasers from the railroad company, which should relate back to the date of the original
certification of patent.
On the filing in the Circuit Court of the mandate of this
court in the cause last referred to, the United .States dismissed further proceedings as to certain defendants other
than the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, and the
trustees in the mortgage executed by that company, respecting certain tracts of land, and at the same time moved
for a further decree against certain other defendants respecting particular tracts of land claimed by them. The
,decree of the Circuit Court (98 Fed. Rep. 46), determined as
to various defendants claiming lands aggregating 43,315.67
acres for which no patents had been issued by the United
States, that they were citizens of the United States and
bona fide purchasers of the lands claimed by them "and
entitled to make payments to the United States, and
secure patents from the United States therefor, upon
complying with the provisions of the act of March 3,
1887, in that behalf." As to other defendants claiming
lands aggregating 9284.39 acres for which patents had
been issued to the railroad company, it was adjudged that
they were bonafide purchasers from and under the railroad,
within the meaning of § 4 of the act of 1887, and within
the meaning of the act of March 2, 1896. The title of
these latter defendants and of their heirs, grantees and
assigns to the lands claimed, was by the decree confirmed.
The Government appealed the case to the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon the contention that the' court erred in
adjudging that the defendants were bona fide purchasers
within the meaning of the acts of Congress of 1887 and
1896, and on the affirmance by a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals brought the case to this court where it
was determined on January 27, 1902, by the opinion
reported in 184 U. S. 49. And the record of the case so
decided, introduced into the record before us by stipula-

.628

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

tion, shows that in that case the Government not only
prayed confirmation of the titles of the defendants found
to be bona fide purchasers within the meaning of the act
of March 3, 1887, but also that the United States "may
have judgment against the defendant railroad company
for the sum of two dollars and fifty cents per acre for all
such lands, if any, which this honorable court may find
to be held by the defendants here as such bona fide purchasers for value." The decree did not however provide
for a pecuniary recovery and it does not appear why the
Government failed to seek a decree in that respect..
On April 13, 1899, soon after the decision reported in
168 U. S. 1, an additional suit was commenced by the
United States against the Southern Pacific Company, in
regard to lands within the overlap, which was ultimately
decided by this court on February 19, 1906, in an opinion
reported in 200 U. S. 341. The defendants, in addition
to the Railroad Company and the trustees under certain
mortgages, were a number of individuals sued as representatives of a class. The relief sought was the confirmation of the titles of bona fide purchasers, the cancellation
of the patents for other lands, and the recovery of the
value of the lands conveyed by the Railroad Company
to bona fide purchasers, in accordance with the Adjustment Acts of 1887 and 1896. A money recovery was had
at the rate of $1.25 per acre, where the Railroad Company
realized that amount on the sale by it, and interest was
allowed at the rate of six per cent. per annum, from the
date of the decree. Southern Pacific R. Co. v. United
States, 133 Fed. Rep. 653, 654.
The United States filed its bill in this case on January 28,
1903,-about one year after the decision of this court in
the case reported in 184 U. S. 49,-invoking the aid of
equity as stated in the opinion below, "on the grounds
of discovery, accounting, the establishment of a trust
and the enforcement of a lien." The ultimate relief

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. t,. UNITED STATES. 629
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sought, however, was a decree against the Railroad Company, under the'acts of March 3, 1887 and March 2, 1896,
for the statutory price of lands located within the overlap and described-in two exhibits, A and B, which had
been erroneously patented to the Railroad Company prior
to the passage of the adjustment act of March 3, 1887,
and which had been sold by the company to purchasers
whose titles had been confirmed. Recovery of interest
was not prayed. Exhibit A, embraced lands sold by the
Railroad Company to bona fide purchasers who had applied
to the Secretary of the Interior, under the provisions of
the adjustment acts for and had received confirmation of
their titles, to the respective lands purchased by them.
The lands embraced in Exhibit B were all confirmed by
the decree of the case reported in 184 U. S.49, the purchasers being parties defendant in that suit. Some 1900
acres of the lands set out in Exhibit A were the subject
of the suit reported in 146 U. S. 570, although the purchasers were not joined, and the remaining lands in that
exhibit formed part of the lands which were the subject
of the suit reported in 186 U. S.49, the purchasers being
parties defendants in that suit. A final decree was entered against the company (157 Fed. Rep. 96), for the
principal sum of $40,124.30, together with interest thereon
at the rate of seven per cent. per annum from March 2,
1896. This decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals (186 Fed. Rep. 737), whereupon the Railroad
Company took this appeal.
Presumably in view of the decision of this court in the
case reported in 200 U. S. 341, the only assignment of
error urged at bar concerns the award of interest, the
main contention on behalf of the Railroad Company
being that the statutes of 1887 and 1896, correctly construed, negative any right to interest, and in any event
the date fixed by the court below from which interest was
to run was erroneous.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

It may not be doubted that testing the right to recover
interest exclusively by the face of the Adjustment Acts
such right would not obtain, since those acts expressly
provide for the payment of a specified amount, the minimum statutory price of the land, without any expressions
tending to support the conclusion that liability for interest was contemplated. On this subject, it was said in
200 U. S. at page 353:
"The acts of Congress really inure to the benefit of the
Railroad Company and restrict the right of the Government, for they provide that the recovery shall in no case
be more than the minimum Government price. In other
words, the Government asks only its minimum price for
public land, no matter what the value of the tracts or the
amounts received by the company may be."
But it is unnecessary to further pursue this matter,
since it is conceded by the Government that the right to
recover interest here asserted depends not upon an express
liability imposed by the adjustment acts but upon general
principles of law as applied to the facts of the case. Primarily the argument causes the liability for interest to
depend upon the fact that the Railroad Company received
from those to whom it had sold the lands, the price thereof,
of which moneys it has since had the possession, and
therefore it should be condemned to pay interest from the
time the money was received. As already pointed out,
however, this theory conflicts. with the plain purpose of
the adjustment acts whigh was simply to provide for the
settlement of a situation which had arisen by a common
mistake, the Government taking back the land which had
been patented and which the Railroad Company had not
conveyed and confirming to bona fide purchasers the titles
to lands which had been conveyed to them by purchase
from the railroad, the Government to receive for such
lands, merely the minimum statutory price, a provision
which excludes the conception that it was conceived that

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 631
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a liability was created, based upon an accounting between
the Government and the railroads of benefits and profits.
It is, however, insisted that upon principles of equity
interest should be allowed for the following reasons:
a. In view of the definite nature and liquidated character
of the obligation of the railroad company to pay as manifested by the terms of the acts of 1887 and 1896, and b, as
the result of the legal proceedings taken by the United
States to enforce liability under the adjustment acts and
the course of judicial decision thereon, all of which we
have previously stated. The subjects are so interblended
that we consider them together.
The interest, as we have already stated, was allowed
below, from March 2, i896, the date of the last adjustment act, as to which it is insisted in argument as follows:
"Then, certainly, if not before, the United States became the equitable assignee pro tanto of the purchasers'
rights to recover what they had paid to the company
through an innocent mistake; and then certainly, if not
before, the company came under an equitable obligation
to account to the United States. If it continued to hold
the moneys beyond that time, it would be only reasonable
and equitable to require it to pay the legal rate of interest."
But as we have pointed out, both the Adjustment Acts
of 1887 and 1896 provided for no recovery of interest and
in the bill in the case before us which is expressly based
upon those acts there is no prayer for interest. It certainly cannot be admitted on the one hand, as has been
done, that the act did not provide for interest, and yet it
be on the other hand asserted that the act, intrinsically
considered, imposed the liability for interest from the
date of its passage. Indeed, both the adjustment acts, as
we have already pointed out, were long since treated by
this court as contemplating action by the Government
to ascertain and fix the liability which arose from their
enactment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Now the history we have given of the various suits-concerning the lands within the overlap shows that the case
reported in 168 U. S. 1 and 184 U. S. 49, involved the question of who were bona fide purchasers of the larger part of
the landsthe statutory price of which is sought to be recovered in this suit,; and that the United States appealed
the case to this court, contesting the correctness of the
holding of the courts below, as to defendants being bona
fide purchasers, a question whose decision was essential to
fix a pecuniary liability upon the company, which question
was not and could not have been determined until the decision of this court on January.27, 1902.
The very foundation of the liability having thus been in
litigation by the action of the Government, there is no
reason for holding that, until that controversy was determined the pecuniary liability of the railroad company was
so liquidated as to justify the awarding of interest. The
question, therefore, is limited to determining whether the
effect of the decree in the case decided in 1902, was to so
fix the liability as to justify the awarding of interest from
that date. We think not, for the following reason: In
the suit which was terminated by the decree entered in
1902, the Government asked that in cases where the purchasers from the Railroad Company were found to have
acted in good faith, within the meaning of the adjustment
acts, it be decreed entitled to recover $2.50 per acre, instead of $1.25 allowed by the adjustment acts. While the
decree of 1902 determined who were bona fide purchasers,
contrary to the contention of the Government, it did not
pretend to fix the resulting pecuniary liability or embrace
affirmative language conclusively protecting against the
enlarged claim which the Government made in the suit.
Under these circumstances, we think it cannot be said
that such a conclusive liquidation arose or was deemed by
the Government to have arisen as to justify an award of
interest. This conclusion is also fortified by the fact that

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 633
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

when subsequently, in 200 U. S. the Government obtained
a decree for the price of similar land sold to bona fide purchasers, interest was awarded to it only from the date of
the decree without apparently objection being made on
the part of the United States. This is further fortified
by the fact that in the bill in this suit, filed after the decision in 1902, no demand was made for interest.
Looking comprehensively at the whole situation, especially the decision. rendered in 1902, considering that
the withdrawal by the United States of the previously
asserted right to greater compensation than the minimum
statutory price, which was a necessary consequence of
the filing of its bill'in this case, of the averment of demand
which the bill contained and the absence of any objection
on the part of the defendant company because of prematurity, we think it is just to say that the liability for
interest upon the statutory price arose at the date of the
commencement of the suit and no sooner; and, therefore,
that error was committed both in the trial court and in
the Circuit Court of Appeals in not confining the commencement of the running of interest to that date.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
to the extent that it affirmed the judgment allowing
interest prior to January 28, 1903, be and the same is
modified, and as so modified is affirmed and the cause is
remanded to the District Court with instructions to enter
a decree conformably to this opinion.
Modified and affirmed.

