OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

that the Circuit Court of Appeals which passed upon the
case, was virtually no court at all, because not organized
in conformity to law.
Our orders will therefore be:
Writ of certiorarigranted; the record of such writ to stand
as a return. And,
The decree of the CircuitCourt of Appeals will be reversed
and the cause remanded with directions for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.

MATTER OF THE APPLICATION OF SPENCER,
EX PARTE.
MATTER

OF THE APPLICATION OF SCHOLL,
EX PARTE.

MATTER OF THE APPLICATION OF MOYER,
EX PARTE.
MOTIONS FOR LEAVE TO FILE APPLICATIONS FOR WRITS OF
HABEAS CORPUS.
Nos. 16, 17, 18, Original.

Argued April 28, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

It is only in exceptional cases that this court will interfere by habeas
corpus with the course, or final administration, of the criminal justice
of the States by their respective courts, Urquhartv. Brown, 205 U. S.
179, and this rule applies as well after, as before, sentence.
Justice is satisfied by the opportunity given to defendants accused of
and tried for crime in the state courts to set up their Federal rights
in those courts, and the course of criminal justice will not be deranged
and possibly- defeated by permitting the defenses based on such
rights to be raised for the first time by habeas corpus in the Federal
courts after sentence in the state court.
The writ of habeas corpus is not to be used as a writ of error.

EX PARTE SPENCER.
228 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

Where, as in Pennsylvania, the judgment of the trial court in criminal
cases is subject to modification, as well as affirmance or reversal, by
the appellate court, and a sentence partly legal and partly illegal under the state law can be modified by striking therefrom the illegal
part, such sentence is erroneous and not void; this court will not,
therefore, on habeas corpus pass upon the question of legality of the
part of the sentence complained of. The proper procedure is to review the judgment on appeal. Ex pare Lange, 18 Wall. 163, distinguished.
It is not the duty of this court to anticipate the decision of the state
court as to the effect of one state statute upon an earlier one, or to
declare which of two rules supported by conflicting decisions the
state court will apply.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction and practice
of this court in regard to issuing writs of habeas corpus
in cases where the petitioners have been sentenced in the
state courts, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. M. C. Rhone and Mr. W. H. Spencer, with whom
Mr. F. P. Cummings was on the brief, for petitioners:
The Indeterminate Sentence Act, in force at the time the
crime was committed, restricted the minimum sentence
of imprisonment to not more than one-fourth of the
maximum; for the particular crime charged in this case,
the highest minimum possible was six months; that law
was repealed after the commission of the crime without any saving clause, and a new indeterminate sentence law was passed leaving it entirely within the discretion of the court as to the minimum sentence of
imprisonment to be imposed; the court imposed a minimum sentence of eighteen months imprisonment; the new
law is, therefore, ex post facto as to a crime committed
before its passage. In re Medley, 134 U. S. 160; Fletcher
v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221;
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 386; Commonwealth v. Shopp,
1 Woodward (Pa.), 123.
Such new law as to the petitioner being ex post facto,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Petitioners.

228 U. S.

and the part of the sentence based thereon being invalid,
then, having complied with the valid part of the sentence
by paying the fine and costs of prosecution, the petitioner is
entitled to a discharge from further imprisonment for such
offense. People v. Lipscomb (Tweed's Case), 60 N. Y. 559;
Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; Hurd on Habeas Corpus,
Ch. 6, § 2.
Extending the minimum term of imprisonment from
6 months to 18 months, inflicts a heavier punishment upon
the petitioner, and deprives him of a substantial right or
benefit; and in relation to the offense and its consequences,
it alters the situation of the petitioner to his disadvantage.
As it does all of these things, the law is ex postfacto, as to
him.
For authorities bearing on the system of indeterminate
sentences which has worked a revolution in criminal
procedure, see Miller v. State, 49 N. E. Rep. 894.
As to the effect and character of the release upon parole,
see People v. Cummings, 88 Michigan, 249; State v. Peters,
43 Oh. St. 629; Re Conditional Discharge of Cohvicts, 51
Atl. Rep. 10.
The express design of the Indeterminate Sentence Act is
to ameliorate the situation of the convict and to mitigate
his punishment, not to aggravate it, as it would do, if the
sentence were for the maximum period.
It is thus seen that the right of the convict to apply
for his discharge at an early day is a very substantial one;
and to deprive him of this right, or to postpone its exercise
for a considerable length of time, is to substantially increase his punishment. Cases supra and Thompson v.
Utah, 170 U. S. 343. To deprive him in any manner of
such right or privilege would be to increase the penalty.
Murphy v. Commonwealth, 172 Massachusetts, 267.
For definition and general nature of ex post facto laws,
see cases supra and 12 Am. & Eng. Enc., 2d ed., p. 525;
United States v. Hall, 2 Washington, 366; In re Murphy,

EX PARTE SPENCER.
228 U. S.

Counsel for Respondent.

87 Fed. Rep. 549; Commonwealth v. McDonough, 13
Allen, 581; Wilson v. Ohio & Miss. R. R. Co., 64 Illinois,
542.
Petitioner could not be sentenced under the act of
1909, as that act was repealed, without any saving clause,
and where a statute is repealed without a saving clause, a
pending proceeding under it falls. 12 Cyc., p. 956; Hartung
v. People, 22 N. Y. 95; 12 Am. & Eng. Ency., p. 530.
The Court of Quarter Sessions was without jurisdiction
to impose any imprisonment in the penitentiary for the
offense committed, and particularly had no jurisdiction to
impose a sentence with a minimum of 18 months.
Where the court imposes a sentence which is part valid
and part invalid, it is valid to the extent that the court had
power to impose it, although it is void as to the excess.
12 Cyc., p. 782; In Re Johnson, 46 Fed. Rep. 477; Ex
parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163.
If the judgment is void or is simply in excess of that
which the law does authorize, and the same, in so far
as it is authorized by law, has been performed, it may
be assailed collaterally and habeas corpus is a proper
remedy. Ex parte Bowen, 6 So. Rep. 65 (Fla.), citing
In re Crandell, 34 Wisconsin, 177; Ex parte Gibson, 61
California, 619; People v. Lipscomb, 60 N. Y. 559; In re
Feeley, 12 Cush. 598; Hurd on Habeas Corpus, Ch. 6, § 2.
Where an illegal sentence has been imposed, a prisoner
may be remanded for a new sentence which is legal, provided no part of it has been performed by the prisoner.
But where a sentence has been imposed, which is part
legal and part illegal, and the legal part of the sentence
has been performed, the power of the court is exhaustedand no second or further sentence can be imposed. Ex
parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163.
Mr. Max L. Mitchell and Mr. N. W. Edwards, with
whom Mr. A. M. Hoaglandand Mr. John C. Bell, Attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

General of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, were on
the brief, for the respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
These applications were filed and rules to show cause
were issued. They were argued together and may be
disposed of in one opinion.
The petitions alleged the following:
Petitioners were indicted in the Court of Quarter
Sessions of the Peace, in the county of Lycoming, State of
Pennsylvania, upon a charge of conspiracy to cheat and
defraud, which the indictment charged was executed on
the tenth day of September, 1910.
The trial took place in June, 1912, and petitioners were
each sentenced to "pay a fine of $500, costs of prosecution,
and undergo an imprisonment in the Eastern Penitentiary at Philadelphia, for an indeterminate period, at
separate and solitary confinement, at labor, the minimum
of which should be eighteen months and the maximum
two years."
The costs and fines have been paid. In execution of the
sentences of imprisonment, Robert J. McKenty, warden
of the penitentiary, holds petitioners in custody in violation of § 10 of Article I, of the Constitution of the United
States, which forbids any State to pass an ex post facto
law, and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States in that petitioners
are deprived of their liberty without due process of law.
At the time the offense was committed (September 10,
1910), the laws of Pennsylvania provided, in § 128 of the
Crimes Act of March 31, 1860, P. L. 382, that one convicted of the crime of conspiracy to cheat and defraud
should be, on conviction, "sentenced to pay a fine not
exceeding $500.00 and undergo an imprisonment at

EX PARTE SPENCER.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

separate and solitary confinement, at labor, or by simple
imprisonment not exceeding two years." This act was
amended and modified by the act of May 10, 1909, P. L.
495, known as the first Indeterminate Sentence Act,
which provided, inter alia, as follows:
"Whenever any person convictea in any court of this
Commonwealth of any crime shall be sentenced to imprisonment in either the Eastern or Western Penitentiary,
the court, instead of pronouncing upon such convict a
definite or fixed term of imprisonment, shall pronounce
upon such convict a sentence of imprisonment for an indefinite term, stating in such sentence the minimum and
maximum limits thereof, fixing as the minimum time of
such imprisonment the term now or hereafter prescribed
as the minimum imprisonment for punishment of such
offense; but if there be no minimum time so prescribed,
the court shall determine the same, but it shall not exceed
one-fourth of the maximum time, and the maximum limit
shall be the maximum time now or hereafter prescribed
as a penalty for such offense."
By the terms of these two acts, which were the law for
petitioners' punishment at the time their crime was committed, the most severe punishment which could be inflicted upon each of them was a fine of $500, and imprisonment in the penitentiary for the minimum term of six
months, and a maximum term of two years.
Nearly a year after the crime was committed the legislature of Pennsylvania repealed the act of May 10, 1909,
without any saving clause, and enacted the act of June 19,
1911, under which petitioners were sentenced. By the
terms of the latter act the length of the minimum term of
imprisonment is wholly within the discretion of the court,
provided it does not exceed the maximum term.
Petitioners will contend that the maximum sentence
which could have been inflicted upon them, if the court
selected the alternative imprisonment rather than the
VOL. ccxxviii-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

simple imprisonment as provided in the act of 1860,
would have been "not less than six months nor more
than two years at separate and solitary confinement,
at labor."
Petitioners, however, were sentenced each to pay a
fine of $500 and coss, and to be imprisoned for an indeterminate period, the minimum of which should be
eighteen months and the maximum two years.
To the rules to show cause, the answer of the warden
has been filed. It asserts the legality of the sentences and
the following reasons why the writs should not issue:
Petitioners, after sentence, took an appeal to the Superior
Court of Pennsylvania, where the sentences were affirmed.
Subsequently they presented a petition to the Supreme
Court of the State praying for a special allocatur to allow
an appeal from the judgment of the Superior Court,
which petition was refused. In neither court did they
raise the question of the constitutionality of the statute
of June 19, 1911, or complain that the sentences were imposed under an ex post facto law, excessive or in other respects unconstitutional.
Afterwards, petitioners petitioned the Supreme Court
of the State for a writ of habeas corpus to the sheriff of
Lycoming County, in whose custody they then were, for
delivery to the warden, and in their petition raised the
same questions which they now raise in their petitions
here. The court refused the petition. The petitioners
then applied to the judge of the District Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Pennsylvania
for habeas corpus, raising the same questions as here. The
petition was refused. This action of the courts is averred
to be an adjudication of the questions here involved. And
it is averred that the view most favorable to petitioners
is that the sentences imposed upon them are legal and valid
sentences for a term of at least six months, and they have
not yet served so much of the term.

EX PARTE SPENCER.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The petitions and answer to them indicate the contentions of the parties. The petitioners contend that their
sentences are illegal in that they were imposed under a
law which is ex post facto and violates Article I of the Constitution of the United States, and that they are deprived
of their liberty in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Respondent opposes the contentions and urges besides
that they have been adjudicated against petitioners and
that they are seeking to use habeas corpus as a writ of
error to review and reverse the judgment of the courts of
Pennsylvania. One of the contentions of respondent is
that it is too late for petitioners to avail themselves of the
objections they urge to their sentences; another contention
is that their applications are premature, the sentences
being at least valid for six months, which had not expired
when the petitions were filed.
Petitioners certainly had ample opportunity to avail
themselves of the objections they make to the validity
of the sentences. They had it when they were brought up
for sentence. They had it when they appealed to the
Superior Court. They had it when they applied to the
Supreme Court to allow an appeal from the judgment of
the Superior Court. And this would have been the orderly
course, and efficient as orderly. It would have been orderly because their objections would then have been made
in the courts ordained to administer the law applicable to
the crime; efficient, because if error was committed against
constitutional rights it could have been reviewed and
corrected by this court. And surely even a defendant in
a criminal case cannot complain if in the tribunals in
which he is arraigned for crime, he has opportunity to
deny the crime, require its proof, resist unjust or excessive
punishment and have a review of all rulings through the
successive state tribunals and finally in the ultimate court
of review upon questions under the Constitution of the
United States. This being a defendant's opportunity, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

have declared many times that it would only be an exceptional case when we should interfere by habeas corpus
with the course or final administration by the state courts
of the criminal justice of a State. The cases are very
numerous. They are cited in Urquhartv. Brown, 205 U. S.
179 and In re Lincoln, 202 U. S. 178. In those cases,
following other cases, the rule is laid down and some of
the exceptional circumstances which might justify its
departure are indicated, and the discretion which this
court may exercise. In Bailey v. Alabama, 211 U. S. 452,
reviewing a judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama
which affirmed a judgment of a lower court denying a discharge on habeas corpus to the plaintiff in error, we said
(p. 453): "If the Supreme Court had affirmed the denial
of the discharge on the ground that the proper course was
to raise the objections ruled upon at the trial of the
principal case on the merits and to take the question up
by writ of error, it would have adopted the rule that
prevails in this court and there would be nothing to be
said."
It is true the rule has been announced in cases where
habeas corpus was applied for in advance of final decision
in the state courts; but the principle of the rule applies
as well after decision. The rule would be useless except
to enforce a temporary delay if it did not compel a review
of the question in the state court and, in the event of an
adverse decision, the prosecution of error from this court.
In other words, if it gave freedom to omit such defenses in
the state court and subsequent review by this court, and
yet the accused have an absolute right to habeas corpus.
And this case shows the necessity of the application of the
rule. We have pointed out the opportunity petitioners had
to object to their sentences when they were imposed and
successively to attack their validity in the appellate
tribunals of the State and in this court. And this satisfies
justice. More than this, that for which petitioners oon-

EX PARTE SPENCER.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tend, will make unstable and uncertain the administration
of the criminal laws of the States. If defenses may be
omitted at trials, rights of review omitted, and yet availed
of through habeas corpus, the whole course of criminal
justice will be deranged and, it may be, defeated. This
is the practical result in the case at bar. Petitioners contend for a discharge, having fulfilled what they consider
the legal part of their sentences, but which is manifestly
below what in the law of the State is fixed for their crime.
And, illustrating their arguments, petitioners told us of
other cases which are waiting to come forward with an
appeal for like remedy and jail delivery.
These views dispose of the petitions and we are not
called upon to express opinion as to whether the act of
1911 is ex post facto because increasing the punishment of
petitioners' crime after it was committed, or whether, as
decided by the Supreme Court of the State in Commonwealth v. Kalck, neither that act nor the act of 1909 was
intended to fix the punishment for any crime, nor to repeal
the laws then in existence prescribing penalties and
punishments for different crimes. We may observe that
the court, further characterizing the acts, said "they
undertook to regulate, not the law which fixed the punishments, but the sentencing of convicts, and the method of
releasing them on parole." And, further, that the purpose
of the acts "was to regulate the control and discipline of
persons convicted of crimes, with a view to their reformation." The final conclusion of the court was that the
statutory punishment was neither changed nor increased
by the act of 1911. "'The maximum sentence,"' the
court said, "'is the only portion of the sentence which has
legal validity, and the minimum sentence is merely an
administrative notice by the court to the executive department, calling -attention to the legislative policy that when
a man's so-called minimum sentence is about to expire, the
question of grace and mercy ought to be considered and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

propriety of granting a qualified pardon be determined."'
See Commonwealth v. Brown, 167 Massachusetts, 144.
The court decided, therefore, that both the acts of 1909
and 1911 prescribed a maximum sentence for crime and
that the provisions for indeterminate sentence with provision for clemency were matters of grace and could be
varied by the legislature and could not be condemned as
ex postfacto laws.
The remarks of the court are pertinent to the next
contention of petitioners, which is that the sentences have
a legal part, to-wit, the fine of $500 and costs, and an
illegal part, to-wit, the imprisonment, and that having
fulfilled the legal part they are entitled to be discharged
from the illegal part. In support of the contention they
invoke Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163. In that case a circuit court of the United States imposed a sentence of a
fine of $200 and one year's imprisonment, the statute
authorizing only a fine or imprisonment. The fine was
paid, and on the next day the prisoner was brought before
the court by habeas corpus and an order was entered
vacating the former judgment and the prisoner again
sentenced to one year's imprisonment. It was held that
the court had not power to vacate the judgment and
resentence the prisoner, that such action was double
punishment for his offense, the legal part of the former
sentence having been satisfied. It was further held that
the judgment was void, not merely erroneous, and the
prisoner was entitled to be discharged upon petition in
habeas corpus. Two answers are opposed to the contention that the case is controlling of the case at bar. The
case was put upon the ground that the Circuit Court had
exhausted its power. In the case at bar the judgment of
the Court of Quarter Sessions was subject to review and
modification by the Supreme Court. Section 1, P. L. 785,
4 Stew. Purd. Dig. 4514, § 30; Daniels v. Commonwealth,
7 Pa. St. 371; Torrence v. Commonwealth, 9 Pa. St. 184;

EX PARTE SPENCER.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Beale v. Commonwealth, 25 Pa. St. 11; White v. Commonwealth, 3 Brewster, 3 0.
In Daniels v. Commonwealth, the court said that under
the power given by the statute cited above it was authorized not only to reverse or affirm but to modify a
judgment, "that is, to change its form, vary, or qualify it,
and this as well in criminal as in civil cases." Exercising
this power, the court struck from a sentence an illegal
part and affirmed it in all other respects. The same power
was exercised in Beale v. Commonwealth. In White v.
Commonwealth, a judgment in excess of what was authorized by the statute was reversed and the prisoner
resentenced.
The sentences imposed on petitioners were, therefore,
not void but erroneous only, and subject to change or
modification by the Supreme Court, or reversal, and
petitioners subject to resentence, and Ex parte Lange does
not apply. In In re Lincoln, 202 U. S. 178, habeas corpus
was denied because there was an appeal from the judgment
attacked which could have been taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, applying the rule which we have so
often expressed, that the writ of habeas corpus is not to be
used as a writ of error. And the reason is manifest. When
the orderly procedure of appeal is employed, the case is
kept within the control and disposition of the courts, and
if the judgment be excessive or illegal it may be modified
or changed and complete justice done, as we have said, to
the prisoner and the penalties of the law satisfied as well.
This comment is applicable to the case at bar. The
Supreme Court of the State has decided, as we have seen,
that neither the act of 1909 nor that of 191.1 repealed the
act of 1860, supra, which defined the statutory crime of
conspiracy, and imposed upon those guilty of it a punishment by fine not exceeding $500 and imprisonment not
exceeding two years.
The question then occurs, What is the effect of the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

of 1911 upon the act of 1909, assuming the former to be
unconstitutional? The Supreme Court of the State, as
we have seen, has declared it constitutional, but the question has not been presented to the court as to what would
be the effect of the act of 1911 if declared by this court
to be unconstitutional. Necessarily this court would
leave to the Supreme Court of the State the decision of that
question, it being a state question. It would not be our
duty to decide it or to anticipate the decision of that
court, which might indeed reconcile the acts with the
constitutional rights of petitioners. The repealing clause
of the act of 1911 is not in absolute form. It repeals only
acts which are inconsistent with the act of 1911. It may
be declared that a void act cannot be legally inconsistent
with a valid one. Shepardson v. Milwaukee &c. R. R.
Co., 6 Wisconsin, 605; State v. La Crosse, 11 Wisconsin, 51;
Chapman v. Detroit, 14 Michigan, 276; Childs v. Shower,
18 Iowa, 261; Board of County Commissioners v. First
National Bank, 6 Colo. App. 423; Trustees v. Laird,
DeG., M. & G. 732. See Schneider v. Staples, 66 Wisconsin, 167. There may be cases the other way, as, it may be
said, Medley, Petitioner,is. 134 U. S. 160, 174. Which is
the more logical rule we are not called upon to pronounce,
nor to say which, under the circumstances, the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania might apply.
Rules discharged; petitions dismissed.

