OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.
scientific.

228 U. S.

But even such criticism should not be hastily

expressed.

What is best is not always discernible; the

wisdom of any choice may be disputed or condemned.
Mere errors of government are not subject to our judicial

review.

It is only its palpably arbitrary eiercises which

can be declared void under the Fourteenth Amendment;

and such judgment cannot be pronounced of the ordinance.
in controversy. Quong ,Wingv. Kirkendall, 223--U. S. 59.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY v. CRAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF NEBRASKA.
No. 193.

Argued March 18, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1013.

The legislature of a State, when so authorize4 by its constitution, has
power to impose a limitation of the time for transportation of livestock.
The.legislature of a State, when so authorized by its constitution, has
power to provide a definite measure of such damages as may be
difficult to estimate or prove for culpable violations of a statute
limiting the time for transportation of livestock.
A contention that ii statute is unconstitutional under a particular
ptovision of the Constitution cannot be made in this court if not
made in the court below.
Contracts made after the 'enactment of a statute are subject to, and
do not impair, it.
The cattle train speed act of Nebraska establishing a rate of speed
on branch lines within the State and imposing a penalty of $10 per
car per hour, is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment as depriving the railroad company of its property without
due process of law because it fixes an arbitrary amount as liquidated
damages.
84 Nebraska, 607, affirmed.

CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. CRAM.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THE State of Nebraska enacted a law requiring railroads conveying livestock to convey the same at a rate
of speed so that the time consumed in a journey from
the initial point of receiving the stock to the poifit of
feeding or destination should not exceed one hour for
each eighteen miles travel, including the time of stops
at stations or other points. It is provided that where
the initial point is not a division station, and on all
branch lines not exceeding 125 miles in length, the rate
of speed shall be such that not more than one hour shall
be consumed in traversing each twelve miles of the distance, iciluding stops at stations or other points, from
the initial point to the first division station' or over said
branches. The time consumed in picking up and setting
out, loading or unloading stock at stations, shall.not be
included in the time required.
It is further provided that upon branch lines not exceeding 125 miles in length, livestock of less than six
cars in one consignment the railroad company may designate three days in each week as stock-shipping days and'
publish and make public the days so designated. After
notice of ten days of the days selected and designated
the schedule provided in the act shall only apply to such
stock-shipping days. It is provided that a carrier "violating any provisions of the act shall pay to the owner of
such livestock, the sum of ten dollars for each hour for
each car it extends or prolongs the time of transportation beyond the period, here limited as liquidated damages to be recovered in an ordinary action, as other.
debts are recovered." The act Was approved March 30,
1905. Nebraska Session Laws, 1905, p. 506, Chapter

107.
Defendant in error brought an action against plaintiff
in error in the District Court of Garfield County, for the
sum of $1770, being the aggregate of twenty-five violations of the act for stock delivered to the railroad July 14,

OCTOBER TERM, 1012.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

1905, and subsequent dates for transportation in full
carloads, each violation being made a cause of action,
the amount of each varying with the time of prolongation of the transportation of the stock.
There was alleged in the cause of action no ground of
recovery other than the statute. and the delay in the
transportation of the stock. In other words, the time
consumed in the transportation of the stock, such time
being given and alleged to be "longer than permitted
by the statutes of Nebraska, to the damage of the plaintiff

.

.

.

as provided for by statutes."

A demurrer was filed to the petition charging that the
statute violated the due process and equality clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States; that the plaintiff (defendant in error)
sought "to recover property or money from the defendant
without its consent and for the private use of the plaintiff,
without compensation, and which recovery, if had, would
amount to confiscation of the property of the defendant
in violation of the provisions of Article Fourteen of the
amendments of the Constitution of the United States.
The recovery sought by the plaintiff, if permitted, would
be the recovery of a penalty under an act of the legislature which is penal in its character, and it is not such a
right as the plaintiff can have or enforce, in violation
of sec. 5, Art. 8 of the Constitution of Nebraska."
The demurrer was overruled and the defendant answered, alleging the following: The shipments were duly
and properly made without unnecessary delay and the
consignments carried were each and all duly delivered
to the consignee in accordance with thke contracts made
for the shipment of the stock, and without any fault or
negligence on the-part of the defendant company.
A written contract for each shipment was duly made
and entered into by plaintiff and defendant by which
it was contracted and agreed that the shipments would

CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. CRAM.
228 U. S.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

not be carried within any specified time, nor to arrive
at destination for any particular market.
The damages sought to be recovered are in reality a
penalty or forfeiture and that a recovery by plaintiff
would be in violation of the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
The plaintiff's cause of action is for the recovery of a
penalty sought to be imposed upon the defendant. contrary to the provisions of article 8, § 5 of the constitution
of Nebraska, and plaintiff had no right or authority under
the law to prosecute the action or to recovery therein.
An amended answer was filed which repeated the above
and alleged that the stock was accepted and carried according to the laws, rules and usages that regulated and
governed common carriers, and in accordance with the
schedules for the movement of trains as established and
in force at the times the shipments were made. The line
of the defendant's railroad was alleged, the manner of
conducting its business, the times of receiving the various
shipments, their arrival at particular stations and at,
destination.
A replication was filed to the answer denying its allegations.
The case was tried by the court without a jury and
judgment was rendered for plaintiff in the sum of $1640
and costs.
The Supreme Court decided that the judgment was
excessive in the amounts of $250 and $170 and those
sums, in accordance with the -order of the court, were
remitted by the plaintiff, and with those reductions the
judgment was affirmed- 84 Nebraska, 607.
Mr. Halleck F. Rose, with whom Mr. James E. Kelby,
and Mr. John F. Stout were on the brief, 'for plaintiff in
error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228 U. S.

The Nebraska statute so far as it creates a determinate
and measured pecuniary liability against railroad companies in favor of shippers of livestock in car load lots,
of $10 per car per each hour consumed in transportation
over a specified speed schedule, is not a punitive measure, and cannot be upheld as an exercise of the police
power.
The Supreme Court of the State construed the statute
to be a mere legislative admeasurement and judgment,
determining and liquidating the amount of pecuniary
recovery by a stock shipper in car lots against railroads
who failed to attain a specified rate of speed during the
whole course of transportation.
The state court agreed that if the imposition was penal
in character, it would be void because forbidden by the
state constitution. See Railway Co. v. Baty, 6 Nebraska,
37; Roose v. Perkins, 9 Nebraska, 315; Riewe v. McCormick, 11 Nebraska, 264.
Punitive damages are not given in Nebraska in any
class of cases between private parties. Compensation,
under the rules of law, is all to which a plaintiff is entitled
in a civil suit at law. Bolt v. Budwig, 19 Nebraska,. 745;
Grand Island & W. C. R. Co. v. Swinbank, 51 Nebraska,
525.
In Graham v. Kibble, 9 Nebraska, 185 the act there in
question was upheld, not as a punitive imposition, but
as a provision for liquidation of compensatory damages.
And see Grand.,Island & W. C. R. Co. v. Swinbank,
supra.
Imposition of damages in favor, of the narrow class
of shippers specified in the act for failure to observe a
severe and impractical speed schedule is the equivalent
of a rebate
The legislatures of the States may not, consistently
with the Federal guaranty of due process, determine
and liquidate the amount of a pecuniary recovery in

CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. CRAM.
228 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

damages enforceable in favor of one private suitor out
of the property of another, in advance
of the incident
creating the right of recovery, and without notice, or
opportunity of hearing, to either party.
Determination of the amount of the compensation or the
quantum of damages suffered by a shipper of livestock
in car load lots by prolonging the period of transportation,
is a judicial function. It reaches and transfers to the
shipper the property of railroads; and to whatever department or forum it may be referred, this function can
only be exercised by proceedings conformable to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and in this
respect the Nebraska act is unconstitutional. Satterlee
v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 413; Vanhorn v. Dorrance, 2 Dall.
304; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 667;
IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 158, 159; Davidson
v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 107; Missouri P. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet.
656; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United Stateg, 148 U. S.
311, 345; Isom v. Mississippi C. R. Co., 30 Mississippi,
300, 315; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 165 U. S. 233,
236.
While tle property of railroads is employed to .per 7
form the public service of transportation, it is, none the
less, private property, under the dominion of private
ownership, and within the protection of constitutional
guaranties. Missouri P. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S.
417; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Missouri P. R. Co. v.
Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 466. And see also Ives v. South
B. R. Co., 200 N. Y. 271.
Domestic animals constitute a considerable portion of
the national wealth. The variations in value of different
members of the same species will show, in horses for
example, divergencies between $25 and $100,000. Divergencies equally marked in the valuations of individual

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228 U. S.

members exist in all the different species of domestic
animals. In our system of government these animals are
not subject to be valued by legislative act, any more than
are lands or corporate franchises.
If the legislature be unfettered in the exercise of this
despotic power it may fix the sum or amount of the claim
at any figure that suits its will or whim. North Dakota,
more moderate than Nebraska, in an act, since held invalid as an undue burden on commerce, fixed $5per car per
each hour as the measure of the stock shipper's claim for
delay in transportation beyond a statutory speed schedule.
Dquglas v. Northern P. R. Co., 125 N. W. Rep. 475, and, see
C., R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Witte, 32 Nebraska, 383, 384.
So also 'the legislature, if unfettered in its power to
liquidate and measure damages, may supersede the functions of the court and jury by enacting legislation establishing damages in all other classes of cases.
Sun Printing and Publishing Co. v. Moore, 183 U. S.
642, distinguished, as was a case enforcing liquidated
damages stated by contract. Whether the difficulty in
proving the amount of damages is sufficient to relieve
the function of determining the amount of recovery from
the reach of the guaranty of due process, is a Federal
question upon which the decision of the state court is not
controlling.
The holding of the state court, that proof of the amount
of damages accriing from delay in transporting livestock
in cars is difficalt or impossible, is palpably erroneous,
contrary to common experience, and without any basis or
foundation upon which to rest.
Previous to the adjudications under review, the Ne.braska court had not found that there was any difficulty
in proving the amount of damages actually sustained
in such cases. Nelson v. C., B. & Q. R. Co., 78 Nebraska,
57; Denman v. C., 8. & Q. R. Co., 52 Nebraska, 140;
C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. Williams, 61 Nebiaska, 608; Wente v.

CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. CRAM.
228 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

C., B. & Q. R. Co., 79 Nebraska, 179; Squires v. Elwood,
33 Nebraska, 126; Gillilan v. Rollins, 41 Nebraska, 540;
Lee v. Carroll Normal School, 96 N. W. Rep. 65.
While the Fourteenth Amendment may not prohibit
the States from assigning judicial powers to their legislative assemblies, that judicial power can only be exercised,
by any department of the state government, in conformity
to the requirement of' due process.
Obviously the state court did not rest its decision either
on the proposition that the state legislature could exercise
judicial power, or that the imposition is penal.
If this court interprets the imposition on railroad companies in favor of shippers of livestock in car load lots of
$10 per car for each hour of delay to be a punishment in the
nature of a fine, as it did the Missouri statute in Missouri
Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512, the statute must be
held repugnant to the equal protection guaranty.
* Mr. E. J. Clements, with whom Mr. S. H. Cowan was
on the brief, for defendants in error:
The Constitution of the United States does not prohibit a state legislature from exercising judicial functions,
-and

whether or not it has done so is not a Federal question.
Saterlee v. Mathewson, 12 Pet. 380. See also Dryer v.
Illinois, 187 U. S.71, which has been cited, with approval,
in Reitz v. Michigan, 188 U. S.507; Carfer v. Caldwell,
200 U. S.297; Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Lines, 211 U. S.
225; Soliah v. Heskin, 222 U. S.522.
The object of the-act in question is the regulation of
quasi-public corporations, in the conduct of their business
as common carriers, and its provisions are clearly within
the police power of the State.
Every possible presumption is in favor of the validity.
of a statute, and this continues until the contrary is
shown beyond a rational doubt. When a statute is susceptible of two constructions, one making it constitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

228 U. S.

and the other unconstitutional, the former must be
adopted. Black's Const. Law, § 30; 8 Cyc. 801, 804;
United States v. Delaware, 213 U. S. 407; Knights Templars
Co. v. Jarman, 187 U. S. 197, 205; Harrimanv. Int. Com.
Comm., 211 U. S. 407; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 657;
A., T. &c.,R. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 104.
In all of its relations to the public, a railroad company
has the character of a public agent, is a quasi-public
corporation, and is subject to any reasonable legislative
regulation or control. 2 Elliott on Railroads, §§ 662,
670;, 7 Cyc. 447, 448; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 94
U. S. 113; Gladsen v. State, 166 U. S. 427; Wisconsin &c.
Ry. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Atlantic &c. Ry. Co. v.
North CarolinaCom., 206 U. S. 1.
Legislative power to regulate and control quasi-public
corporations is not confined to railroad companies alone,
but extends to banks, elevator, insurance, gas, water,
telephone and telegraph companies, and all corporations
engaged in business of a public nature. Munn v.Jllinois,
94 U. $: 113; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S.557;
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Hale, 219 U. S.307; Noble
State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104.
The right of the legislature to regulate and control
a business affected with a public interest is a part of the
police power of the State.

9 Ency. of U. S. SuD. Ct.

Dec. 483; Lake Shore Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285;
Lake Shore Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S.684; Western Un.
Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S.347; C., B. & Q.R. Co. v.
Drainage Cc -. , 200 U. S. 561; Bacon v. Walker, 204

U. S.311; Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.104; German Alliance
Ins. Co. v. Hale, 219 U. S.307; Gladson v. Minnesota,
166 U. S.427.
The fact that the company was organized under the
laws of another State does not affect the right to regulate
it. Stone v. Farmers L. & T. Co., 116 U.-S. 334; Freund
on Police Power,- § 398; 33 Cyc. 648; New York &c.R. R.

CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. CRAM.
228 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Co., v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; Harrington v. Georgia,
163 U. Sz 299.
The act in question is therefore a police regulation.
The object and purpose of § 2 are to enforce the regulations provided for in § 1, and to furnish a simple and expeditious remedy to a party injured by a violation thereof.
This method of enforcement does not in any manner
conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, or any other
provision of the Federal Constitution. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co.
v. Hume, 115 U. S.512; Minneapolis &c. Ry. Co. v. Emmons, 149. U. S. 312; Minneapolis &c. Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S.31.
If, therefore, §_2 provides for a penalty, it is not inimical
to the Constitution of the United States. Illinois &c.
R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 152, distinguished, and see
Atchison &c. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S.96, 100; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S.657, 682.
If, upon independent inquiry, this court shall determine that the recovery provided for by § 2 is in the nature
of a penalty, then its former decisions are conclusive
that it does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment.
The construction placed upon this act and similar
statutes by the Supreme Court of Nebraska does not
affirm or deny that the statute is or is not a police regulaion; nor that it is or is not penal in its nature; nor that if it
were penal it would or would not violate the state constitution. Counsels' contention that the court held that
it was penal is based upon the fact that the recovery is
termed "liquidated damages."
The statute would not necessarily be unconstitutional
if it provided for anything more than compensatory
damages, or was in any sense penal. For cases in which
penal, or quasi-penal, statutes have been upheld, see
G-raham v. Kibble, 9 Nebraska, 184; Phoenix Ins. Co. v.
Bohman, 28 Nebraska, 251; Phoenix Ins. Co. v. McEvony,
52 Nebraska, 566; Clearwater Bank v. Kurkonski, 45

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

228 U. S.

Nebraska, 1; Deering v. Miller, 33 Nebraska, 655; Hier v.
Hutchings, 58 Nebraska, 334.
The common-law rule that, in cases showing wanton
or malicious injury, punitive damages maybe allowed,which is still recognized and adhered to by this court
and the courts of many States,-has been abrogated in
some jurisdictions, including Nebraska. Boyer v. Barr,
8 Nebraska, 68; A. & N. R. Co. v. Baty, 6 Nebraska, 37.,
This court has sustained punitive damage statutes
under the Fourteenth Amendment. Minn. Ry. Co. v.
Beckwith, 129 U. S. 27.
A state legislature has the power to fix, by statute, the
maximum, or even the exact amount recoverable by a
person sustaining injury from the delinquency of a public,
or quasi-public, agent; and such a statute does not violate
any of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Field's Law of Damages, § 17.
See cases involving the construction and enforcement
of insurance statutes fixing penalties and damages. In
several of said cases, it is expressly held that the statutory
provisions in regard to the amount of the recovery amount
to a statutory liquidation of damages, which become
a part of the contract, and must govern notwithstanding
any conflicting provisions embodied therein by the parties.
Lancashire Inv. Co. v. Bush, 60 Nebraska, 121; Oshkosh
Gas Light Co. v. Ins. Co., 71 Wisconsin, 454;, Havens v.
Ins. Co., 123 Missouri, 403; Orient Insurance Company v.
Daggs, 172 U. S. 557; Fidelity Mut. Assn. v. Mettler,
185 U. S. 226.
The constitutional guaranties of due.process and equal
protection' of law can have no greater force or effect
when invoked by a railroad company than when claimed
by an insurance corporation. Brady v. Daly, 175 U. S.
148. See also statute fixing liquidated damages for
infringing patents. Pirkle v. Smith, 42 Fed. Rep. 410.
See also, for other liquidated damage statutes, Coover v.

CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. CRAM.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Walker, 31 Missouri, 574; Carroll v. M. P. Ry. Co., 88
Missouri, 239; Miller v. M. P. Ry. Co., 109 Missouri, 350;
Lamphear v. Buckingham, 33 Connecticut, 238; Texas
Cent. R. Co. v. Hannoy & Co., 130 S. W. Rep. 250; Orange
County v. Harris,97 California, 600.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court, after stating the case as above.

The case is here in a simple aspect. There was no
attempt made to explain or justify the delays in the
shipments, and any attack on the statute on the ground
that it includes delays resulting from the act of God or
cause over which the carriers have no control is precluded
by the construction put upon the act by the Supreme
Court of the State.
The only proposition, then, which is presented is
whether the statute is beyond the power of government
and, therefore, offends the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States by depriving plaintiff in error of its property without due process of law.
This is contended upon two grounds: 1. The statute,
as considered by the Supreme Court of the State, is a
legislative determination of the quantum of damages
arising from a breach of a private contract for the shipment of livestock and a legislative determination of
damages wholly distinct and apart from the exercise of
police power, and not a punitive measure to enforce
compliance with the commands of the statute. 2. The
statute, being declared of such character, is "a usurpation
of functions which are exclusively judicial, contrary to
the law of the land" and repugnant to the provisions o;
the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is the concession of the contentions that had the
statute been considered by the Supreme Court a police
regulation, the objection made to it would be without
VOL. ccxxviii-6

OCTOBER TERM,

912.

Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

foundation. But, meeting the effect of the concession,
plaintiff in error asserts that if the court had so ruled

defendant in error would have had no right of action because under §5, article 8, of the constitution of the State,
all penalties must be appropriated to the use and support
of the common schools.
The court found no conflict between the law and the
constitution of the State. Section 5, article 8, however,
was not discussed in any of the opinions. Other provisions of the constitution were considered and the contentions based on them decided to be untenable. The omission is not important to our inquiry, and we shall assume,
as plaintiff in error contends, that the court regarded the
statute as giving compensation for damages for injuries
suffered rather than penalties for omission of duties
prescribed. It does not follow, however, that the court
decided that the statute was not passed In exercise of
the power of the State to regulate the conduct of the carriers inthe performance of their duties to the public.
The, opinion of the court makes the contrary manifest.
The court said (p. 611), "In' the instant case, the enforcement of the law, as we view the record, will not deprive
defendant of any constitutional guarantee, state or
national. Defendant's property is affected by a public
interest

it must, to the liniit of the interest

.

thus acquired by the public, submit to the control of
such property for the public good.

.

.

.

The pub-

lic is interested not only in being permitted to have its
property transported for a reasonable compensation,
but also in having that property, especially if subject to
rapid depreciation, transported with reasonable promptness and care.

.

.

It!s a matter of common knowl-

edge that livestock confined in a freight car deteriorates
in condition and that, if the animals axe to be placed on
the market within- a short time of the -termination of
transportation, the depreciation 'isnot confined to a

CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. CRAM.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shrinkage in weight, but to many other factors difficult
to prove, but actually existing and seriously affecting the
market value of said property. As the damage accruing
from the protracted confinement of stock is difficult to
prove with reasonable exactitude, and yet always exists,
the legislature has the power to provide for liquidated
damages. Such legislation is not unsound in principle
and has been upheld in many courts."
The court, in illustration of its views and the quality
of the statute, compared it to § 4966 of. the Revised
Statutes of the United States which provides for a liability of one hundred dollars for the first infringing performance of a copyrighted dramatic piece and fifty dollars for the second performance, as, the court said (p. 613),
"a reasonable liquidation of the damages which the proprietor had suffered from the wrongful acts of the defendant."
The court also adduced two examples from statutes of
the State sustained by decisions, in both of which fiftydollars was given as liquidated damages; in one, against
an officer for collecting a fee greater than allowed by law;
in the other, against a, mortgagee for failing to release a
chattel morttrage; and five hundred dollars against an
officer for re-arresting a person after his discharge on
habeas corpus.
Answering the objection that the legislature might subject an occupant of a public office to damages for particular
unlawful acts and not have such power over others, the
court said that the reason applied as well to "like provisions in statutes passed to regulate public carriers in the
'
transaction of their business.
It is clear from the excerpts from the opinion of the
court that it considered the statute as .passed to regulate
public carriers and to give damages against them for the
omission of the duties prescribed by it which, though
existing, could not be exactly estimated or proved. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

court therefore only announced and applied the principle
of liquidated damages. It would seem, too, by the examples it adduced from other statutes of the State, to
reject the view asserted by plaintiff in error that even if
the statute be regarded as imposing penalties upon the
carriers, it was thereby made to conflict with § 5, article
8, of the state constitution and could be made payable
to the party injured. This was declared in ClearwaterBank
v. Kurkonski, 45 Nebraska, 1, and sums provided to be recovered by other statutes were decided in other cases to
be in the nature of penalties. Graham v. Kibble, 9 Nebraska, 182; Phwnix Ins. Co. v. Bohman, -28 Nebraska,
251; Same v. McEvony, 52 Nebraska, 566; Deering v.
Miller, 33 Nebraska, 654. These cases are distinguishable
from those cited by plaintiff in error in which the court
disapproved a statute which purported to give double
damages, and the court, in the case at bar, explicitly distinguished them from cases in which liquidated damages
were provided for. In other words, the court decided that
the statute imposed only compensatory damages, fixing
them at a sum certain because of the difficulty "'of the
ascertainment of the actual damages suffered by the
aggrieved person."
We need not extend the discussion. We repeat, the
case is here in a simple aspect. Two propositions only
are involved: (1) the power of the legislature to impose a
limitation of the time for the transportation of livestock;
(2) to provide a definite measure of damages which may
be difficult to estimate or prove. It is too late in the day
to deny the possession of the first power, and we think the
other is as fully established and that the statute was
enacted to meet conditions which had arisen from the
conduct of carriers, and which, in the judgment of the
legislature, demanded a remedy. And the court confined
the act strictly to culpable violation of its requirements.
To the plea of extra expense which might be incurred by

CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. KYLE.
228 U. S.

Counsel for Defendants in Error.

obedience to the statute, the court said it could be compensated by extra charge.
The contention is made that the statute impairs the
obligation of the contracts which existed between plaintiff
in error and defendant in error; but that contention was
not made in the court below and cannot therefore be made
here. Besides, there is no evidence of the contracts in
the record. Contracts were pleaded and there appears
to have been some attempt to introduce them in evidence,
but unsuccessfully, and they were stricken from the bill of
exceptions. But, assuming the contracts may be considered on this record, a complete answer to the contention
that the statute impairs their obligation is, they were
made subsequently. to the statute and, therefore, are
subject to it.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY v. KYLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 194.

Argued March 18, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

Nebraska Live Stock Speed Law sustained on authority of Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. Cram, ante, p. 70.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the
Nebraska freight speed law, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Halleck F. Rose, with whom Mr. James E. Kelby
and Mr. John F. Stout were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. E. J. Clements, with whom Mr. S. H. Cowan was on
the brief, for defendants in error.

