OCTOBER TERM. 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BOYD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 47.

Argued November 11, 12, 1912.-Decided April 28, 1913.

A corporation acquiring stock control of a railroad company and leasing it becomes liable to account to the leased company for the amount
of bonds in the treasury of the leased compahy diverted by it; that
liability can be enforced by a creditor of the leased company who is
unable to collect his judgment on account of the insolvency of the
leased company which has resulted from the lease itself. Chicago
Railway v. Chicago Bank, 134 U. S. 277.
A lessor railroad company which has once become liable for diversion
of bonds from the treasury of a lessee company remains so until the
bonds are restored; nor is the obligation lessened by disbursements
made on account of the roadbed of the leased company.
Improvements of a roadbed. leased for 999 years from another company are expenditures for the benefit of the lessee and not the lessor;
they cannot be regarded as an offset to a debt owed by the lessee
to the lessor. Chicago Railway v. Chicago Bank, 134 U. S. 277.
Contracts for reorganization made be'ween bondholders 'and stockholders of corporations, insolvent or financialiy embarrassed, involving the transfer of.the corporate property to a new corporation,
while proper and binding as between the parties, cannot, even where
made in good faith, defeat the claim of non-assenting creditors; nor
is there any difference whether the reorganization be made by contract or at private sale or consummated by a master's deed under a
consent decree.
Even in the absence of fraud, any device, whether by private contract
or under judicial sale, whereby stockholders are preferred to creditors,
is invalid. Louisville Trust Co. v. Louisville Railway, 174 U. S. 683.
The decree in a proceeding brought by one of a class to permit that
class to participate in a reorganization is not res judicata as against
another of the. same class who was not a party thereto and had no
notice of the proceeding.
]ichts of creditors of corpoiutions undergoing. reorganization do not

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

depend upon whether the property was sufficient on the day of sale
to pay them and prior encumbrances, but on fixed principles estabfished by law.
The property of a corporation, in the hands of the former owners under
a new charter, is as much subject to existing liabilities as that of a
defendant who buys his own property at a tax sale.
The fact that property of great value belonging to an insolvent corporation is bid in by the reorganization committee at the upset price
fixed by the court at a judicial sale, cannot be used as evidence to
disprove the recital as to its actual and far greater value when subsequently transferred by the reorganization committee to the new
corporation.
A creditor of a corporation undergoing reorganization cannot prevent
stockholders from retaining an interest in the reorganized corporation; if he is given a fair opportunity to protect his interests and
refuses to avail of it he may be cut off by the decree.
Laches is not to be measured as statutory limitations are. There is no
necessary estoppel from mere lapse of time where complainant's nonaction is excusable and has not damaged defendant or caused him
to change his position. Tounsend v. Vanderwerker, 160 U. S. 186.
In this case the delay in bringing the suit was excusable if not unavoidable; and, as complainant's silence did not mislead the stockholders
and his inaction did not induce any of them to become parties to the
reorganization, laches cannot be imputed to him.
177 Fed. Rep. 804, affirmed.

THE Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
affirmed a decree subjecting the property of the Northern
Pacific Railway Company to the payment of a judgment

for $71,278 which Joseph H. Boyd had revived against
the Coeur D'Alene Railway and Navigation Company.
The record on this appeal is very lengthy and the transactions so overlap that any chronological statement would

necessarily be confusing. It will conduce to clearness to
refer first to those between the Cceur D'Alene and the
Northern Pacific Railroad and then set out as succinctly
as possible the facts connected with the foreclosure of the
Northern Pacific Railroadand its purchase by the Northern Pacific Railway.
In 1886 the Cceur D'Alene Railroad and Navigation

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

Company constructed a narrow gauge railroad from Burke,
Idaho, on the Northern JPacific Railroad, to Old Mission'
Spaulding, in 1887, brought suit in an Idaho court to
recover $23,675 for work done and material furnished in
building it. Owing to the inaccessibility of the county
seat in "whiph the territorial court was held, and the fact
that the terms were generally devoted to criminal business, there was much delay in getting a hearing. At last
there was a trial, lasting forty days; but the presiding
j~udge died before making his findings'and entering judgmenit.. His successor having been of counsel for one of
the parties, was disqualified,. so that it was not until 1896
that Spaulding recovered judgment against the Cceur
D'Alene. Boyd claimed that this judgment belonged to
him; and, learning that ,Spaulding had' threatened to
transfer the judgment, Boyd in 1898 instituted a suit to
establish his title. It terminated in his favor in May, 1901.
When the appeal was dismissed, the judgment against
the Cceur D'Alehe was about to become dormant. Boyd
thereupon (1903) began proceedings in Idaho-to have it
revived, and on October 23, 1905, obtained a judgment
against the Cceur D'Alene Company for $71,278, being
the original debt with accumulated interest and costs.
An appeal was taken, which was dismissed, and thereupon Boyd, in-September, 1906, brought in a state court
this suit against the Northern Pacific Railrpad and the
Northern Pacific Railway Company, claiming that the
Railroad was liable for this debt of the Cceur D'Alene
and that the Railway in turn was liable for this debt of the
Railroad. The case was removed to the United States
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Washington.
The Cceur D'Alene Railway and Navigation Company
in 1886 built a narrow gauge railroad 33 miles in length.
D. C, Corbin was president and controlled 5,100 shares,
which constituted a majority of the stock, which had
been increased to $1,000,000, and all of which was unpaid.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

In 1888, while the Spaulding suit was pending, Corbin
entered into a contract with the Northern Pacific Railroad
in which he agreed to sell it his stock, stated to be full
paid and non-assessable; to secure for it a leaseof the
Cceur D'Alene's property for-999 years and authority to
issue $825,000 of mortgage bonds. The Northern Pacific
was to pay the interest of. six per cent. on those bonds
issued at the rate of $25,000 per mile on the 33 miles of
road constructed, or to be constructed; and after a certain
date to create and maintain a sinking fund for the redemption of the bonds at maturity; to pay for the value of material on hand, and $20,000 to cover amounts expended
for surveys.
Corbin secured the adoption of resolutions authorizing
the lease and the issuance of the bonds. 'On September 18, 1888, 5,100 shares of stock were transferred to
the Railroad, which, entered into possession as lessee
October 1, 1888, taking charge of all the matters relating to the Cceur D'Alene, including its litigation, although Corbin and the other officers did not immediately
resign.
The resolution provided for the immediate issuance of
$825,000 of bonds, $360,000 of which were tx be retained
to redeem the outstanding bonds for that amount. The
agreement was silent as to what should be done with the
remaining $465,000 of bonds, and the parties are at issue
as to what use was, in fact, made of them. The Railway
insists that the records show that they were delivered by
the mortgage trustee on October 29 and 30, 1888, upon
the order of Corbin, president, part to him and part to
another person. Boyd, however, contends that these
bonds, $465,000, or their proceeds were used to pay Corbin for the 5,100.shares of stock sold by him to the Northerr Pacific Railroad, while the latter insists that the consideration for the transfer was, as stated in the contract,
the railroad's guaranteeing the principal and interest of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

the bonds and taking a lease of the property for 999
years, which provided for rental to be paid out of net
earnings.
The evidence on this branch of the case is meager. On
behalf of the defendant the records showed that on
October 29 and 30, 1888, the bonds were turned over on
the order of Corbin, president of the Cceur D'Alene Company. Corbin, who was an old man at the time of taking
the testimony in 1907, stated that he received none of the
bonds but so much cash; that neither he nor his associates
received any benefit from the mortgage, "though I presume it was probably used to pay us. I know we got our
money. . . . T do not think we received any bonds,
unless possibly we might have received bonds with an
agreement with somebody to take them off our hands and
pay us the money, because I never had any bonds.
If they ever came into my hands at all, they just passed
through my hands."
A witness for the Northern Pacific, who had been its
Auditor in 1888, had no personal knowledge of the transaction, but testified that there was nothing on the books of
the Northern Pacific which showed that it had ever received the $465,000 of bonds or that it had ever paid
anything for this stock. He did not think that the 33 miles
of railroad cost $825,000, and supposed that the $465,000
of bonds went to Corbin and his associates. "His rights
and so on were worth something."
In December, 1889, the Railroad obtained, through
Corbin, the remaining 4,900 shares ot stock in the Cceur
D'Alene, paying therefor $250,000. It changed the road
from a narrow to a broad gauge at a cost of $150,000 and
extended the line 16Y2 miles at a cost of $750,000, and,
as provided in the mortgage, issued $413,000 of additional
bonds, being at the rate of $25,000 per mile. The cost of
this extension, change in grade, and other betterments
amounted to $910,000, 'or about $500,000 more than the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Northern Pacific Railroad received from the sale of this
last issue of $413,000.
The first 21 months after the lease the Cceur D'Alene's
net earnings amounted to $176,000, and, as the lease
provided that net earnings should be paid as rental, a
dividend of 6 per cent. was declared. Thereafter the
earnings rapidly decreased and ultimately the books
showed a loss. But the Northern Pacific Railroad, in
accordance with the terms of the lease, paid the interest
on the bonds until it was itself put in the hands of a
Receiver in 1893. He failed to pay the interest. in 1895,
and proceedings were instituted to foreclose the mortgages
on the Cceur D'Alene Company. The property was sold
under foreclosure in January, 1899, for $220,000 to the
newly organized Northern Pacific Railway Company.
This left nothing for payment of Boyd's debt, and he
insists that the lease and the diversion of the funds in
purchase of Corbin's stock made the Railroad responsible
for the debts of the Cceur D'Alene, including his judgment.
He further claims that the Railway became liable for the
payment of the same debt by virtue of new and independent proceedings now to be stated, under which the Northern Pacific Railway in 1896 acquired the property of the
Northern Pacific Railroad.
On August 15, 1893, Winston and others filed in the
United States Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin
a creditors' bill against the Northern Pacific Railroad
alleging that it was insolvent, its mortgage bonds amounting to about $140,000,000 and its floating debts to
$11,000,000, and praying for the appointment of a receiver
to preserve the property as an entirety and to prevent it
from being dismembered by separate sales under attachments and other liens. The company oWned or controlled
54 subsidiary companies, and main and branch lines
4,700 miles in length. It also owned or was entitled to
receive about 40,000,000 acres under land grants. There

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

were six mortgages-some on one part of the property,
some on another and a general mortgage on the entire
railroad lines. It also owned a large body of land which
was not encumbered by liens. Interest had been paid on
some of the bonds, but there had been a default in the
interest on those secured by the junior mortgages.
Shortly after the filing of the creditors' bill a suit was
brought in the same court by the trustees to foreclose these
latter mortgages. The cases were consolidated and the
receivership continued- under the consolidated causes.
The Railroad demurred. As the road ran through several
States, there were many questions of conflicting jurisdiction which were not settled until January 31, 1896, so that
except for administrative orders, no steps were taken in
the litigation proper.
The representatives of the stockholders intended to resist the foreclosure, and While recognizing the superior
claim of the bonds, advised that "if properly protected,
stockholders can secure equitable terms in any reorganization." There .were also representatives of the bondholders, and ultimately the two interests agreed upon a
plan, the terms of which were stated by the Reorganization Committee which, March 16, 1896, issued a circular
to "the holders of bonds and stocks issued or guaranteed
by the Northern Pacific Railroad." This circular outlined a plan under which all of the stocks and bonds of the
Railroad were to be transferred to a new company (the
present Northern Pacific Railway Company) which was to
purchase the property of the Railroad, issue new bonds,
part of which were to be sold to raise money with which to
discharge Receivers' Certificates, purchase needed equipment and make necessary betterments. The balance. was
to be issued in exchange for the bonds of the old'company.
The plan also contemplated the issuance of preferred
and common stock, part to be used in paying debts of the
subsidiary companies, for which the Northern Pacific

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Railroad was liable, part for the expenses of the reorganization, and the balance to be issued in exchange for the
outstanding stock of the Northern Pacific Railroad. Under the proposed plan the holder of $100 of preferred stock
in the old company, upon paying $10 per share was to
receive $50 of preferred and $50 of common stock in the
new company. For each $100 of common stock the
holder was to receive one share of common in the new
corporation upon paying $15 per share. The aggregate of
these cash payments on stock was about $11,000,000.
The records showing the cost of the original construction were not accessible, and in some particulars, the costs
of the main and subsidiary lines appear to have been
combined. But there is testimony tending to show that
the cost of the railroad property, subject to the mortgage,
was about $241,000,000. What was the vajue of the
40,000,000 acres of land is not stated. For several years
prior to the receivership the road's net earnings had
varied between $10,000,000 and, $4,449,000. Its fixed
charges amounted to $11,000,000-showing an annual
deficit of about $5,000,000. The bonds, unpaid interest
and Receivers' Certificates aggregated at date of sale
$157,000,000. The unsecured debts proved before the
master amounted to about $15,200,000. The reorganization contemplated an issue of new bonds for $190,000,000
at lower rates of interest, $75,000,000. of preferred stock,
$80,000,000 of common stock-a total in bonds and
stock of $345,000,000.
The reorganization agreement contained a statement
that the property intended to be purchased was mutually
agreed to be of the value of $345,000,000, payable in the
stocks and bonds as above described.
The plan of reorganization was accepted, and on
April 27, 1896, the decree of 1foreclosure was entered and
the property ordered to,be sold, on a date later fixed for
July 25, 1896.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

On June 23, 1896, an order was entered directing the
Special Master to give notice by publication requiring each
and every creditor of the Railroad to present their claims
against the company or specific property before November 1, 1896; in default of which they should be excluded
from the benefit of the reference. Publication was made
as directed.
On July 22, 1896, Paton and others, holding contingent
and unsecured claims for $5,500,000 against the Northern
Pacific R. R., filed a Bill, in the same court that had
jurisdiction of the Creditors' Bill and Foreclosure suit,
charging that the sale was the result of a conspiracy
between bondholders and stockholders to exclude general
creditors, and to award to stockholders in the old company rights in the new which were valuable and could not
be legally reserved for the stockholders until first offered to
and declined by the general creditors. It prayed that the
decree of foreclosure should be opened; that the court
would formulate a just and fair plan for distribution, and
that the sale be enjoined. This was later modified so as
to permit the sale to proceed, but asking an injunction to
prevent the distribution of the proceeds and securities.
The court held that the company was insolvent; that the
assets were insufficient to pay the mortgage debts; that
practical operation had demonstrated that the net earnings would not pay the fixed charges; that there was no
equity in the property out of which unsecured creditors
could be paid and no reason existed why the stockholders
could not go into a reorganization plan whereby they
would become stockholders in the new company, if it
should become the purchaser. The prayer for injunction
was denied. No appeal was taken.
On July 25 the railroad property was sold at public
outcry to the newly organized Railway Company at a price
representing $61,500,000, or $86,000,000 less than the
secured debts. On July 27 the sale was reported to the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
223 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

court, and, all parties consenting, was three days later confirmed. The Railway Company entered into possession,
and the first year its earnings were $489,000 above fixed
charges, which had been lessened under the reorganization.
The second year it declared a dividend of $3,000,000 and
carried $3,000,000 to surplus. Since that time the earnings have been continually large, the business profitable
and the value of the securities correspondingly great; but
for a year after the sale, stock on which $10 and $15 had
been paid in cash sold at prices varying from $18 to $51 for
preferred and $13 and $18 for common.
In addition to the property covered by the mortgage,
the Northern Pacific Railroad owned large quantities of
land which were not encumbered, and in May, 1896, the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company filed its Supplemental
Bill describing this unmortgaged property and alleging
that various intervening creditors had obtained judgments
against the Railroad Company, some of which had been
assigned to the trust company. It prayed that these lands
of the Railroad should be sold and the proceeds applied to
the satisfaction of the unsecured claims. On the same day
that this Supplemental Bill was filed, the Railroad Company and other parties to the consolidated causes answered,
the court adjudged that the complainant was entitled to
the decree asked for, and appointed a Receiver of the property.
It was not, however, until April 27, 1899, that the sale
was ordered. The property was thereupon sold to the
Northern Pacific Railway for $1,623,000. The parties
stipulated that the sale should be confirmed and on the
same day in September, 1899, this was done.
Out of the proceeds of this unmortgaged land a dividend
of $108,000 was paid on the Cceur D'Alene bonds held by
the Northern Pacific Railway. The Northern Pacific
Railway had a claim against the old Railroad of $86,000,000
for deficiency between the bid at foreclosure sale and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

228 U. S.

the lien debts held by it. It had also purchased about
$14,000,000 of other unsecured claims. On this $100,000,000
it was paid a dividend of $1,200,000, or a little over one per
cent.
But during these years the litigation between Spaulding
and the Cceur D'Alene to recover judgment for work done;
between Boyd and Spaulding over the title to the judgment, and between Boyd and the Coeur D'Alene to revive
the judgment had been in progress and did not terminate
until 1905, when the judgment was revived. When the
appeal was dismissed Boyd brought this bill in equity
against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company and the
Northern Pacific Railway Company, insisting that the
Railroad was liable for this debt of the Cceur D'Aleje and
that the Railway was in turn liable for this debt of the
Railroad. There was no demurrer, but both answered
and much evidence was taken. A decree in favor of Boyd
and against the Railway was made a lien on the property
purchased, subject, however, to the mortgages placed
thereon. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals (170 Fed. Rep. 779; 177 Fed. Rep. 804), and both
defendants appealed. In this court a brief was filed by an
amicus curie, insisting that the complainants' remedy was
against stockholders of the Northern Pacific Railroad
and not against the Railway Company or its property.
Mr. Francis Lynde Stetson and Mr. Charles Donnelly,
with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn was on the brief, for
appellant:
The complainant never has been a creditor of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, nor as against that
company, has he ever possessed any rights either in law
or in equity.
There never was any misappropriation of assets of the
Coeur D 'Alene Company by the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, but even if so, the misappropriation by one man

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

of the property of another does not, at the time of the misappropriation, entitle the creditor of that other to pursue
the misappropriated proceeds, unless at such time such
creditor has reduced his claim to judgment, has issued execution against his debtor upon it, and the execution has
been returned unsatisfied. Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106,
113; Cates v. Allen, 149 U. S. 451, 457.
. The Railroad Company never contracted to pay the
debt on which the judgment is based.
The contention that the Cceur D'Alene stock was not
paid up, and that the Railroad Company by the purchase
of that stock in 1888 became liable to the extent of -the
unpaid stock subscription cantnct be -sustained.
The common-law rule is, that creditors o? a corporation,
who deal with it in reliance upon its teppesentation that
its authorized capital Js fully paid, may'if the stock has
been issued in fraud of creditors without being fully paid,
collect their debts to the extent of unpaid subscriptions
from the original subscribers to the stock or from transferees with notice. Cook on Corporations, §§ 42, 49;
Moiawetz on Corporations, §§ 821, 823; Clark & Marshall
on Corporations, §§ 791 et seq.
The Railroad Company cannqt be held answerable as
stockholder for the debts of, the Cour D'Alene Company
because no reliance was ever placed on the stock subscriptions. Complainant has not proved that the stock was not
paid up.. He has only alleged it.
As to the contention that the, Railroad Company'fraudulently diverted the earnings of the Cceur D'Alene property, complainant has made no attempt anywhere to
support taat charge and it may be treated as abandoned.
Even if complainant were entitled to judgment against
the ,Railroad Company, his rights would end there. He
is not entitled to collect his jiidgment out of the property
which in 1896 passed to, the Railway Company, because
the judicial proceedings, by which that property passed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

228 U. S.

in all particulars were proper, and such as the complainants therein were entitled to pursue. Complainant's
claim is based solely and simply upon the fact that as a
result of the reorganization, stockholders of the old company obtained stock in the new company in consideration
of cash payments. The new corporation, however, is
under no obligation for debts of the old company. Hoard
v. Chesapeake &c. Ry., 123 U. S. 222; Cook on Corporations, § 80.
The transaction was as free from "fraud in law" as
confessedly it was free from fraud in fact. Only by the
plan. adopted, or by one substantially similar, could this
hopelessly insolvent property have been placed upon a
sound financial basis. The reorganization of insolvent
railroad properties would be an impossibility if honest,
reasonable plans such as this were to be condemned, and
in fact this court never has condemned them.
This branch of the defense rests on two principles,
applicable in the absence of actual fraud: where nothing
is taken from the general creditors, they have no valid
ground of complaint; in advance of foreclosure a mortgagee
may lawfully agree to sell to the mortgagor, or to anyone
connected in interest with the mortgagor, a share in the.
property purchased, provided such sale be for a fair price
and in good faith.
The mortgagee in good faith ,may lawfully agree to sell
to the mortgagor. Wicker v. Hoppock, 6 Wall. 94, 98;
Bame v. Drew, 4 Denio, 287; Shoemaker v. Katz, 74 Wisconsin, 374; Central Trust Co. v. U. S. Rolling Stock Co., 56
Fed Rep. 5, 7. And see opinion in the Paton Case, 85
Fed. Rep. 838; The Monon Case, 174 U. S. 674; Wenger
v. Railway Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 34; Dickerman v. Northern
Trust Cc., 176 U. S. 181, 189; Pennsylvania Transp. Co.'s
Appeal, 101 Pa. St. 576; Kurtz v. Phil. & R. R. R. Co.,
187 Pa. St. 59. See also McArdell v. Olcott, 104 App. Div,
283; aff'd 189 N. Y. 368, 393.'

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The only decisions in this court relied upon by complainant's counsel are Railroad Co. v. Howard, 7 Wall.
392, and Louisville Trust Co. v. Louisville Ry. Co., 174
U. S. 674, but neither of them is decisive of the present
controversy.
The points of distinction are independent of the decision
against the complainant's contention pronounced in the
Paton Case.
Treating the question broadly, it is to be remembered
that between 1892 and 1900, a large number of the railroad companies of the United States, by their necessities,
were forced to submit to foreclosure. They have been
succeeded by a system of vigorous, solvent, prosperous and
useful corporations. The change, obviously to the public
advantage, was the result of reorganizations so-called, of
which almost all were based upon plans similar to that
involved in the present case. The principle of such plans
was that financial necessities of the physical properties
could be met only by sufficient and prompt provision of
additional cash capital for the new corporation; and that
for prompt and sufficient cash provision the most available source was and would be those who already were
acquainted with the physical property and would have
faith in its future possibilities. Manifestly these were,
and must continue to be, those who had been interested
in the old company, either as bondholders or stockholders,
and not necessarily or probably those who were its general
creditors.
Prior to the decree in the present suit, no court has held
to be fraudulent the reorganization of an insolvent corporation under a plan which permitted interests in the
new company to be acquired by stockholders of the old
company only upon making substantial money payments.
There is, iow, presented for review by this court, a
conclusion of law never before reached by any court upon
like facts. The importance of the issue to the holders of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

228 U. S.

securities of reorganized corporations cannot be overestimated.
Even though the court should be of opinion that in this
reorganization there was such participation by stockholders as should have invalidated the proceedings in the
consolidated suit, still the court having, charge of those
proceedings adjudged otherwise; and that judgment,
sustained after consideration of the specific objections
here relied on,, and decreeing the Railway Company to be
entitled to the property, is binding on all the world, including the complainant.
The identical objections raised by complainants, based
upon this identical plan of reorganization, and urged
against these identical foreclosures of the mortgages on
the property of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
were made and were urged by eminent counsel to the
court which for nearly three years had been administering the property; that court decided them to be unsound; and having so decided them to be unsound, it
proceeded with the foreclosure and sale of the property
and it rendered decrees and orders upon which we now
rely. Paton v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 838.
One who objects seasonably to the validity of a foreclosure sale upon the ground that the price paid was inadequate, must accompany his objection with an offer of
some responsible person to pay more. Jones on Mortgages, § 1641; Jones on Corporate Bonds and Mortgages,
§ 662. It applies as well in railroad foreclosure sales as
in other foreclosure sales. Turner v. Indianapolis&c. Ry.
Co., 8 Biss. 380; S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 14259. Had complainant appeared in the court at Milwaukee and protested
against the confirmation of this sale on the ground that
the price paid was inadequate, the court would not have
listened to his objections unless accompanied by an offer
to pay more. A fortiori the court will not listen to them
now unless there is some showing that a higher price

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

might have been obtained then. Not only is there a total
failure of evidence in this regard, but it is not even alleged
that a higher price could have been obtained.
This very question as to the fraudulent character of the
reorganization had been passed. on by the court before it
rendered the decrees of foreclosure and sale; its decision
in the Paton Case, whether or not a bar, must be regarded.
by every other court. Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230,
237; 2 Freeman on Judgments, § 486.
Boyd was a party to the Paton proceeding in the only
possible way in which he could have been one except by
his own direct intervention, for not until after judgment
was rendered in the foreclosure suits was he a judgment
creditor even of the Cceur D'Alene Company; and not
until later did he even assert himself to be a creditor of
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company. 1 Daniel's
Chanc. Pl. & Pr. 280, 5th .Amer. ed.; Story Eq. Pl.,
§§ 156, 351.
The doctrine of lis pendens is an ancient one. It was
laid down by Lord Bacon in one of his ordinances. Murray
v. Ballau, 1 Johns. Ch. 577. See also Tilton v. Cofield, 93
U. S. 163; Ex parte Railroad Co., 95 U. S. 221; Stout v.
Lye, 103 U. S. 66; Hollins v. Brierfield Coal Co., 150 U. S.
371; Herring v. Railway Co., 105 N. Y. 340; Bronson v.
Railroad Co., 2 Black,' 524.
Complainant has been guilty of such laches as deprives
him of any right now to call upon a court of equity to enforce a claim matured -in 1886 and now more than quadrupled by interest charges.
This case fairly illustrates the gross injustice of permitting a suitor to assert a liability against a defendant
many years after the event, when the imputation rests
upon conjecture and when the lapse of time has impaired
recollection of the transactions and obscured the details.
Under such circumstances it has been consistently held
by courts of equity, and by none more forcibly than by this
VOL. CCXXVIII-,2

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

court, that the welfare of society demands the rigid enforcement of the equitable rule of diligence. Hammond
v. Hopkins, 143 U. S. 224, 274; Foster v. Mansfield &c. R.
R., 146 U. S. 88, 99.
Such rule of diligence will rigidly be enforced in equity
against a bondholder who fails promptly to prosecute a
claim to share in the proceeds of a corporate reorganization from which he has been excluded, even though otherwise he would be entitled to relief. Alsop v. Riker, 155
U. S. 448, 459; Felix v. Patrick, 145 U. S. 317, 329.
As to the applicability of laches when the property is
of a speculative character, see Starkweather v. Jenner, 216
U. S. 524; Rothschild v. Memphis & Co. R. Co., 113 Fed.
Rep. 476; Leavenworth v. Chicago Ry. Co., 134 U. S. 688,
709; Graham v. Boston, H. & E. R. R. Co., 118 U. S. 161.
Mr. George Turner and Mr. R. L. Edmiston, for appellee.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore, by leave of the court, filed a
brief as amicus curiM.
MR. JusTIcE LAMAR,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
Boyd's judgment against the Cceur D'Alene Railway &
Navigation Company was rendered in 1896 in an action
begun in 1887 in a court of the Territory of Idaho. After
he had established his title to the judgment and revived
it in 1906 for $71,278 there was nothing on which an execution could be levied because, in lue meantime, all of the
property of the Coeur D'Alene had been sold under foreclosure. He thereupon brought this suit, claiming that
the Northern Pacific R. R. Co. was liable in equity as for
a diversion of $465,000 of bonds, belonging to the Cceur
D'Alene but used by the Northern Pacific in payment of
5, 100 shares of stock bought from Corbin in 1888.
At that time the Coeur D'Alene was solvent, owning

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and operating at a profit a narrow gauge railroad, 33 miles
in length, constructed at a cost of about $12,000 a mile
and paid for mainly out of the proceeds of $360,000 of first
mortgage bonds. The original capital stock of $500,000,
increased to $1,000,000, had been issued, but the subscriptions were unpaid. A majority of this stock was controlled
by Corbin, the president.
On August 1, 1888, he, in his individual capacity,
entered into a written contract with the Northern Pacific,
in which he undertook to have the Coeur D'Alene issue
$825,000 of bonds, $360,000 of which were to be retained
to retire those then outstanding. He also agreed to cause
the Coeur D'Alene to lease its property for 999 years to the
Northern Pacific, which, in turn, was to guarantee the
payment of the principal and interest of the bonds. The
contract further recited that in consideration of the execution of the lease and guaranty Corbin would transfer to the
Northern Pacific 5,100 fully paid and non-assessable shares
of the capital stock of the Coeur D'Alene. The agreement was promptly carried into effect. A resolution was
passed by the directors of the Coeur D'Alene authorizing
the issue of $825,000 of bonds for properly constructing,
completing and equipping the road; the 999-year lease was
made and Corbin transferred his stock. Shortly afterwards the Trust Company, named in the mortgage, issued
to Corbin, president, or order, $465,000 of the new bonds.
They were not used for completing or equipping the road,
paying the debts or other corporate purpose, and although
the Northern Pacific was the then holder of a majority of
the stock and in charge of the business and litigation of the
Cceur D'Alene, no steps were taken to trace or recover
them. Corbin testified that he was paid for the stock, in
cash, about the par value of the bonds; that he had never
received then, or if so, that they only passed through his
hands "with an agreement that somebody was to take
them off of our hands and pay us the money."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

1. The buyer would naturally have been the person to
make arrangement for the payment. But the Railway
insists that the payment was not made in cash but that,
as recited in the written contract, the stock was transferred
by Corbin in consideration of the Northern Pacific guaranteeing the bonds and entering into the lease. But even
if Corbin sold his 5,100 shares for a consideration nominally moving to the Cceur D'Alene, that would not change
the character of the transaction if, in fact, Corbin made
the transfer with the further understanding that he was
to have the proceeds of the guaranteed bonds. In that
event the purchaser would be as much liable for the
diversion of the $465,000 as the seller. Chicago, M. & St.
P. Ry. v. Third Nat. Bank, 134 U. S. 276. The terms of
the contract; Corbin's control of the Cceur D'Alene; the
failure to produce or account for the absence of the agent
who represented the Northern Pacific Railroad in the
purchase, together with Corbin's testimony that the
stock was paid for out of the cash proceeds of the bonds,
support the concurrent findings of the two courts that the
Northern Pacific combined with him to divert $465,000
of the assets of the Cceur D'Alene. And even if, as
claimed, liability for a diversion of trust funds was dependent upon the insolvency of the Coeur D'Alene, that
insolvency was brought about in the very act of carrying
the illegal contract into effect; for thereby the Cceur
D'Alene was encumbered with a mortgage for twice its
value, and the lease for 999 years, with rental payable
only from net profits, left nothing out of which debts
could be made by levy and sale. 134 U. S. 277.
2. Being liable for this diversion of $465,000, the
Northern Pacific Railroad remained so liable until the
funds were restored to the true owner. Chicago, M. & St.
P. Ry. v. Third Nat. Bank, 134 U. S. 277. The obligation
was not lessened by set-offs, nor discharged in whole, because the Northern Pacific spent $500,000 of its own

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

money in broadening the gauge, extending the line, equipping the road, or for other purposes which may have been
thought by it advantageous to the Cceur D'Alene. Such
disbursement was not a restoration of what had been
taken, but an expenditure by the Northern Pacific, for
its own benefit, in improving a road which it practically
owned by virtue of the 999-year lease.
3. Although this diversion of $465,000 of bonds in 1888
made the Northern Pacific liable, in equity, for the payment of Boyd's judgment for $71,278, recovered in 1896
and revived in 1906, yet, his right was apparently not enforcible because, in 1896, all of the property of the Northern Pacific Railroad had been sold under foreclosure to the
newly created Northern Pacific Railway Company. He
thereupon brought this suit against the mortgagor and
purchaser, seeking to subject the property bought to the
payment of this liability. He claimed that the foreclosure
sale was void because made in pursuance of an illegal plan
of reorganization, between bondholders and stockholders
of the Railroad, in which, though no provision was made
for the payment of unsecured creditors, the stockholders
retained their interest by receiving an equal number of
shares in the new Railway. There was no question as to
parties and no demurrer to the bill. The Railway answered and on the trial of the merits offered evidence
tending to support its contention that the decree was
regular in form, free from fraud and that the property
brought a fair price at public outcry. Both courts found
against this contention and entered a decree making
Boyd's claim a lien upon the property of the Railroad in
the hands of the Railway, but subject to the mortgages
placed thereon at the time of the reorganization.
The appellants attack the ruling from various standpoints based 'upon many facts in the voluminous record.
But, having been summarized in the statement, they will
not be discussed in detail, inasmuch as the case, -though

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

presenting various aspects, is controlled by a single
proposition. For although Boyd was not a party to the
foreclosure, and was not made such by the publication
notifying creditors to prove their claims, yet the original
and supplemental decrees were free from any moral or
actual fraud and were, in form and nature, sufficient to
have passed a title good against him, unless the contract
of reorganization, reserving a stock interest in the new
company for the old shareholders, left the property still
subject to the claims of non-assenting creditors of the
Northern Pacific Railroad.
4. Corporations, insolvent or financially embarrassed,
often find it necessary to scale their debts and readjust
stock issues with an agreement to conduct the same business with the same property under a reorganization. This
may be done in pursuance of a private contract between
bondholders and stockholders. And though the corporate
property is thereby transferred to a new company, having
the same shareholders, the transaction would be binding
between the parties. But, of course, such a transfer by
stockholders from themselves to themselves cannot defeat
the claim of a non-assenting creditor. As against him the
sale is void in equity, regardless of the motive with which
it was made. For if such contract reorganization was consummated in good faith and in ignorance of the existence
of the creditor, yet when he appeared and established his
debt the subordinate interest of the old stockholders would
still be subject to his claim in the hands of the reorganized
company. Cf. San Francisco & N. P. R. R. v. Bee, 48
California, 398; Grenell v. Detroit Gas Co., 112 Michigan,
70. There is no difference in principle if the contract of
reorganization, instead of being effectuated by private
sale, is consummated by a master's deed under a consent
decree.
5. It is argued that this is true only when there is fraud
in the decree,-the appellants insisting that in all other

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cases a judicial sale operates to pass a title which cuts off
all claims of unsecured creditors against the property.
They rely on Wenger v. Chicago &c. R. R., 114 Fed. Rep.
34; Farmers'Loan & Trust Co. v. Louisville &c. Ry. Co., 103
Fed. Rep. 110; Pennsylvania TransportationCo.'s Appeal,
101 Pa. St. 576; Kurtz v. R. R., 187 Pa. St. 59; Paton v.
N. P. R. R., 85 Fed. Rep. 838; Shoemaker v. Katz, 74
Wisconsin, 374; Bame v. Drew, 4 Denio, 287; Ferguson v.
Ann Arbor R. R., 17 App. Div. 336; McArdell v. Olcott,
104 App. Div. 263; S. C., 189 N. Y. 368, 384; Candee v.
Lord, 2 N. Y. 269. Some of these cases hold directly, and
others inferentially, that, in the absence of fraud, as here,
a judicial sale is binding upon non-assenting creditors even
, though the decree was entered and the sale was made
in pursuance of a contract, to which the stockholders
were parties, and by which they were to retain a stock
interest in the purchasing company. This makes the
creditor's legal right against the shareholders' interest
depend upon the motive with which they act and the
method by which they carry out the scheme. If they do so
by means of a private contract, though in ignorance of
the existence of the creditor, the property remains liable
for his debts. If they do so by means of a judicial sale
under a consent decree and in like ignorance or disregard
of his existence, the result is said to be different, although
the shareholders should reserve exactly the same interest
and deprive the creditor of exactly the same right.
Such and similar possibilities at one time caused doubts
to be expressed as to whether a court could permit a
foreclosure sale which left any interest to the stockholders. But it is now settled that such reorganizations
are not necessarily illegal, and, as proceedings to subject
the property must usually be in a court where those who
ask equity must do equity, such reorganizations may even
have an effect more extensive than those made without
judicial sale, and bind creditors who do not accept fair

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

terms offered. The enormous value of corporate property
often makes it impossible for one, or a score, or a hundred
bondholders to purchase, and equally so for stockholders
to protect their interests. A combination is necessary to
secure a bidder and to prevent a sacrifice. Cooperation
being essential, there is no reason why the stockholders
should not unite with the bondholders to buy in the property.
That was done in the present case. And while the
agreemelit contained no provision as to the payment of
unsecured creditors, yet the Railway Company purchased
unsecured claims aggregating $14,000,000. Whether they
were acquired because of their value, to avoid litigation,
or in recognition of the fact that such claims were superior
to the rights of stockholders, does not appear, nor is it
material. For, if purposely or unintentionally a single
creditor was not paid, or provided for in the reorganization,
he could assert his superior rights against the subordinate
interests of the old stockholders in the property transferred
to the new company. They were in the position of insol,-vent debtors who could not reserve an interest as against
creditors. Their original contribution to the capital stock
was subject to the payment of debts. The property was a
trust fund charged primarily with the payment of corporate liabilities. Any device, Whether by private contract or
judicial sale under consent decree, whereby stockholders
were preferred before the creditor was invalid. Being
bound for the debts, the. purchase of their property, by
their new company, for their benefit, put the stockholders
in the position of a mortgagor buying at his own sale. If
they did so ingood faith and in ignorance of Boyd's claim,
they were none the less bound to recognize his superior
right in the property, when years 1ter his contingent
claim was liquidated and established. That such a sale
would be void, even in the absence of fraud in the decree,
appears from the reasoning in Louis~ille Trust Co. v. Louis-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ville Ry., 174 U. S. 674, 683, 684, where "assuming that
foreclosure proceedings may be carried on to some extent at
least in the interests and for the benefit of both mortgagee
and mortgagor (that is, bondholder and stockholder)"
the court said that "no such proceedings can be rightfully
carried to consummation 'which recognize and preserve
any interest in the stockholders without also recognizing
and preserving the interests, not merely of the mortgagee,
but of every creditor of the corporation. .
Any
arrangement of the parties by which the subordinate
rights and interests of the stockholders are attempted
to be secured at the expense of the prior rights of either
class of creditors. comes within judicial denunciation."
6. The Railway seeks to distinguish that case from this,
insisting that even if the stockholders' participation in
the reorganization would have invalidated the proceeding,
such result does not follow here because the court having
charge of the foreclosure passed on this very question
before the sale in 1896 and dismissed the Bill of Paton,
an unsecured creditor, when he made exactly the same
attack upon the reorganization as that by Boyd in this
bill. That court then held that as the property was insufficient to pay the mortgage debts of $157,000,000,
there was nothing which cquld come to the unsecured
creditors, and they, therefore, had no ground to complain
if the bondholders were willing to give new shares to the
old stockholders. No appeal was taken from that decision-possibly because the Paton claim was purchased
by the Railway. But inasmuch as Boyd was not a party
to the record that decree was not binding upon him as
res adjudicata, and the opinion not being controlling
authority, cannot be followed in view of the principles
declared in Chicago, R. I. & P. R. R. v. Howard, 7 Wall.
392; Louisville .Trust Co. v. Louisville R; R., 174 U. S. 674.
In saying that there was nothing for unsecured creditors
the argument assumes the very fact which the law conr

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

templated was to be tested by adversary proceeding in
which it would have been to the interest of the stockholders to interpose every valid defense. If, after a trial,
a sale was ordered, they were still interested in making the
property bring its value, so as to leave a surplus for themselves as ultimate owners. Even after sale they could
have opposed its confirmation if the bids had been chilled,
or other reason existed to prevent its approval. In the
present case all these tests and safeguards were withdrawn.
The stockholders, who, in lawfully protecting themselves,
would necessarily have protected unsecured creditors,
abandoned the defense that the foreclosure suit had been
prematurely brought. The law, of course, did not require them to make or insist upon that defense if it was
not meritorious, nor does it condemn the decree solely
because it was entered by consent. But the shareholders
were not merely quiescent. They, though in effect defendants, became parties to a contract with the creditors,
who were in effect complainants, by which, in consideration of stock in the new company, they 'transferred their
shares in the Railroad to the Railway. The latter then
owning the bonds of the complainant and controlling
the stock in the defendant, became the representative of
both parties. in interest. In such a situation there was
nothing to litigate, and so the demurrer to the bill was
withdrawn. An answer was immediately filed admitting
all the allegations of the bill. On the same day, "no one
opposing," a decree of foreclosure and sale was entered.
Two months later the property was sold to the agreed
purchaser at the upset price named in the decree. In a
few days and by consent that sale was confirmed. As
between the parties and the public generally, the sale was
valid. As against creditors, it was a mere form. Though
the Northern Pacific Railroad was divested of the legal
title, the old stockholders were still owners of the same
railroad, encumbered by the same debts. The circum-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

locution did not better their title against Boyd as a nonassenting creditor. They had changed the name but not
the relation. The property in the hands of the former
owners, under a new charter, was as much subject to any
existing liability as that of a defendant who buys his own
property at a tax sale.
The invalidity of the sale flowed from the character of
the reorganization agreement regardless of the value of the
property, for in cases like this, the question must be
decided according to a fixed principlp, not leaving the
rights of the creditors to depend upon the balancing of
evidence as to whether, on the day of sale the property was
insufficient to pay prior encumbrances. The facts in the
present case illustrate the necessity of adhering to the
rule. The railroad cost $241,000,000.1 The lien debts were
$157,000,000. The road sold for $61,000,000 and the
purchaser at once issued $190,000,000 of bonds and
$155,000,000 of stock on property which, a month before,
had been bought for $61,000,000.
It is insisted, however, that not only the bid at public
outcry, but the specific finding in the Paton case, established that the property was worth less than the encumbrances of $157,000,000, and hence that Boyd is no worse
off than if the sale had been made without the reorganization agreement. In the last analysis, this means that he
cannot complain if worthless stock in the new company
was given for worthless stock in the old. Such contention,
if true in fact, would come perilously near proving that
the new shares had been issued without the payment of
any part of the implied stock subscriptions except the
$10 and $15 assessments. But there was an entirely
different estimate of the value of the road when the
reorganization contract was made. For that agreement
contained the distinct recital that the property to be purchased was agreed to be "of the full value of $345,000,000,
payable in fully paid non-assessable stock and the prior

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

lien and general lien bonds to be executed and delivered as
hereinafter provided."
The fact that at the sale, where there was no competition, the property was bid in at $61,000,000 does not
disprove the truth of that recital, and the shareholders
cannot now be heard to claim that this material statement
was untrue and that as a fact there was no equity out of
which unsecured creditors could have been paid, although
there was a value which authorized the issuance of
$144,000,000 fully paid stock. If the value of the road
justified the issuance of stock in exchange for old shares,
the creditors were entitled to the benefit of that value,
whether it was present or prospective, for dividends or
only for purposes of control. In either event it was a
right of property out of which the creditors were entitled
to be paid before the stockholders could retain it for any
purpose whatever.
7. This conclusion does not, as claimed, require the
impossible and make it necessary to pay an unsecured
creditor in cash as a condition of stockholders retaining an
interest in the reorganized company. His interest can be'
preserved by the issuance, on equitable terms, of income
bonds or preferred stock. If he declines a fair offer he is
left to protect himself as any other creditor of a judgment
debtor, and, having refused to come into a just reorganization, could not thereafter be heard in a court of equity to
attack it. If, however, no such tender was made and kept
good he retains the right to subject the interest of the old
stockholders in the property to the payment of his debt.
If their interest is valueless, he gets nothing. If it be
valuable, he merely subjects that which the law had
originally and continuously made liable for the payment of
corporate liabilities.
8. Lastly, it is said that Boyd was estopped from attacking, in 1906, a reorganiz ation completed in 1896, and,
ordinarily, such a lapse of ime would prevent any creditor

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from asserting a claim like that here made. For along
with the policy to encourage reorganizations, goes that of
requiring prompt action by those who claim that their
rights have been injuriously affected. The fact that
improvements are put upon the property-that the stock
and bonds of the new company almost immediately became
the subject of transactions with third persons-call for
special application of the rule of diligence. But the
doctrine of estoppel by laches is not one which can be
measured out in days and months, as though it were a
statute of limitations. For what might be inexcusable
delay in one case would not be inconsistent with diligence
in another, and unless the non-action of the complainant
operated to damage the- defendant or to induce it to
change its position, there is no necessary estoppel arising
from the mere lapse of time. Townsend v. Vanderworker,
160 U. S. 171, 186.
In this case the defendants and their stockholders have
not been injured by Boyd's failure to sue. His delay was
not the result of inexcusable- neglect, but in spite of
diligent effort to put himself in the position of a judgment
creditor of the Cceur D'Alene so as to be able to proceed in'
equity to collect his debt. He accomplished this result.
only' after protracted litigation, beginning in 1887 and
continuing through the present appeal (1913). The more
important chapters of the different cases, with lawsuits
within lawsuits, are reported in 5 Idaho,. 528; 6 Idaho, 97;
6 Idaho, 638; 85 Fed. Rep. 838; 93 Fed. Rep. 280; 174 U. S.
801; 170 Fed. Rep. 779; 177 Fed. Rep. 804. They involve
a series of independent transactions, in different courts,
between Spaulding and the Cceur- D'Alene Company;
Boyd and Spaulding; Boyd and the Cceur D'Alene Company; the Northern Pacific Railroad and the Cceur
D'Alene, and finally the foreclosure of the Northern Pacific
Railroad and its purchase by the Northern Pacific Railway.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Op'ion of the Court.

228 U. S.

When Spaulding recovered against the Cceur D'Alene
it required years for Boyd to establish his title to the
judgment. To prevent it from becoming dormant it was
necessary promptly to institute proceedings against the
Coeur D'Alene in the nature of scire facias to revive the
judgment. There is no reason suggested by this record
why it should have done so, unless it was to avoid the
enforcement cf this very claim, but the Northern Pacific
Railway, by its counsel, defended that revivor suit against
the Cceur D'Alene, and when, in 1906, it terminated in
favor of Boyd, he at once filed this bill alleging that the
Railroadwas liable for the debts of the Cceur D'Alene and
the Railway liable for the debts of the Railroad.
The delay in beginning the present suit-the last of a
remarkable series of legal proceedings-was excusable if
not absolutely unavoidable. Boyd claims that he had no
notice of the fact that the stockholders were to retain an
interest in the new company and that, in part, the delay
to begin proceedings was occasioned by the Railway
Company itself, since it, as the purchaser of the Cceur
D'Alene property, resisted his attempt to revive the
judgment. Boyd's silence,, in 1896, did not mislead the
stockholders, nor did his non-action induce them to become parties to the reorganization plan. They have
not in anyway changed their position by reason of anything he did or failed to do, and the mere lapse of time
-under the peculiar and extraordinary circumstances of this
case did not estop him, when he revived the judgment,
from promptly proceeding to subject the shareholders'
interest in property which in equity was liable for the
payment of his debt. The decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
LURTON, J., WHITE,

Ch. J., HOLMES, J., VAN DEVAw=R, J., dis'nt'g.

Dissenting opinion by MR. JUSTICE LURTON, in which
concur THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER.

I find myself unable to agree with the opinion of the
court. The consequences which may result from the decision to the numerous reorganizations of railroad companies which occurred about the time of this reorganization or since, are, to my mind, alarming. Arrangements
and agreements in advance of judicial sales between
creditors Interested for the common benefit are the usual
incidents of foreclosures, and if fairly and openly entered
into and approved by the court are not subject to criticism.
Nor do I agree that every plan of reorganization which
in any way includes stockholders of the reorganized company is for tl~st reason alone to be regarded as an illegal
withholding from creditors of corporate property which
should go to the payment of corporate debts. That corporate property must be applied to corporate debts before
shareholders can participate, is plain. But I think every
case should stand upon its own facts, and the remedy be
shaped to do justice and equity in the particular case, and
not tried out by any hard and fast rule such as indicated
when this court says that the invalidity of a judicial sale
must turn upon the character of the ,reorganization agreement and is not affected by actual consequences to
creditors.
Here is a single creditor who comes forward many years
after a judicial sale under a general creditors bill and a
mortgage foreclosure bill which had been pending several
years, and asserts the right to ignore the judicial sale and
the title resulting and asks to have the property of the old
company subjected to his non-lien claim, not because of
any actual fraud in the sale, nor because he can show that
he has in any way suffered a loss by reason of the plan of
reorganization under which the sale was conducted, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
LURTON, J.; WHiTE, Ch. J., HoLMEs, J., VAN DEvANiER, J., dis'nt'g.

solely and simply because the shareholders of the debtor
company are said to have participated in some way in the
benefits of the sale. I think this goes too far and that
there is no just foundation for upsetting a judicial sale
upon tle complaint of an unsecured creditor of the debtor
company in the absence of proof of fraud in the decree.
The cases supporting this view which I ventura to say
should control this case are cited in the opinion of the
court. It is not a case of the transfer by stockholders of
one company to themselves as stockholders of another.
The railroad company was hopelessly insolvent. Its
annual deficit was about five million dollars. Its general
creditors, represented by the general creditors' bill, and
its mortgage creditors, represented in the mortgage foreclosure proceeding, were endeavoring to prevent a disintegration and to bring the property to sale. The stockholders,/represented by the company, were resisting. The
receivership had already lasted for several years and the
,situation was growing steadily worse. The lien creditors,
to save themselves, devised a plan for the sale and purchase of the property by a new company which should
assume their claims, so far as possible, and put the new
company in shape to meet its obligations. A large sum
of actual money was necessary, and also the consent of the
stockholders, to bring about a speedy sale. This money
might be in part procured by the sale of the bonds of the
new company; but if fixed charges were to be reduced, and
the.deficit of the old company turned into a surplus, the
bonded debt and interest must be reduced. Therefore it
was that most.of this necessary money must come from the
sale of stock. That was not a hopeful outlook. The value
of this new stock was obviously speculative. The very
basis of the plan to receive any large sum upon stock sales
was believed to depend upon making a market among the
stockholders of the old company. This was the motive
that led to the proposal that they should exchange their

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
LurtTON,

J., WHm=, Ch. J., HoLMEs, J., VAx DEcVANTiE, J., dis'nt'g.

shares for those in the- new company, paying the price
stated. This actually, produced about eleven of the
twenty-five million dollars deemed essential to any arrangement which would save to the bondholders any large
part of their debt. The price fixed turned out to be little
below what the stock actually sold for on the open market
for the year following the operation of the property by
the purchasers. The subscription price to the shareholders, as the situation then appeared, was deemed fair,
full and just by the very court which had approved the
plan and decreed the sale, as is shown by the opinion of
Judge Jenkins in the Paton Case, 85 Fed. Rep. 838.
It is true that Boyd was not a party to that-suit. But
it was a bill filed after the decree and before the sale,
attacking the reorganization plan upon the precise grounds
here advanced, and is highly persuasive as to the good
faith of the plan and the fairness of the subscription price.
The upset price of sixty-one million dollars was fixed by
the court,-probably as large as could be expected at the
sale. As observed by this court in Louisville Trust Co. v.
Louisville &c. Ry., 174 U. S. 674, 683, 'railroad mortgages,
or trust deeds, are ordinarily so large in amount that on
foreclosure thereof only the mortgagees, or their representatives, can be considered as probable purchasers." Hence
it was that the upset price must be fixed at such a sum as
was reasonably within the range of any bidding which the
property might be started at by the only probable bidders.
The case last cited goes to the very verge of the law, but
in that case the denunciation of such a plan of reorganization goes no farther than to condemn any arrangement by
which the subordinate rights of stockholders are saved at
the expense of creditqrs. That. was not done here. The
sale price was about eighty million dollars less than the
lien claims entitled to be paid before creditors of the class
to which Boyd belongs. Many of his class were actual
parties to the consolidated cause in which the reorganizaVOL. ccxxvii-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
LtURTON, J., WHMrr,

Ch. J.,

HOLMES, J., VAN

DEVAyTEB, J., dis'nt'g.

tion plan was approved and the sale decreed. They might
have sought a larger upset price, but did not. They might
have objected to the plan upon the grounds now brought
forward, but they did not. They consented to the decree.
They were doubtless hopeless of any sale price which
could by any possibility save them, and therefore they
stood aside. Technically Boyd was not a party, though
under the order of the court every creditor was by publication, all along the line of the railroad, and in many States,
notified to come in or be barred from participation in the
proceeds. He had actual knowledge of the pending of the
foreclosure proceedings, and yet took no steps to assert his
rights. I do not find from the facts of this case any such
diligence in his litigation against the real debtor company,--the Cceur D'Alene, and the determination of his
claim to ownership of the judgment against that company
in the name of Spalding as to excuse the long delay in the
assertion of his rights against the railroad company or its
successor, and it is not explained why he did not intervene
and set up his contingent claim before the sale, or, at
least, after the sale, many years before he did. I think
he waited too long, and that no court of equity should
upset a judicial sale after such unreasonable delay.- What
was said by this court in Alsop v. Riker, 155 U. S. 448,
459, 461, applies with great force to this case:
"The record discloses no element of fraud or concealment upon the part of the trustees or of any of them.
What they did was done openly and was known or might
have been known by the exercise of the slightest diligence
upon the part of every one interested in the, property
of the old corporation. The plaintiff unquestionably
knew, or could easily have ascertained, before the trustees
bought the property at the foreclosure sale,-at any rate,
before they transferred it to the new corporation,-that
their purchase would be, and was, exclusively for the
benefit of certificate holders interested in 'the trust.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. BOYD.
LURTON, J., WTmF, Ch. J., HoImus, J., VAN DEVANTER, J., dis'nt'g.

Although his bonds had not then matured, he could have
taken steps to prevent any transfer of the property that
would impair his equitable rights in it or instituted proper
judicial proceedings, of which all would be required to
take notice, to have his interest in the property adjudicated. He allowed the trust to be wound up, and postponed any appeal to a court of equity based upon an
illegal breach of trust by the trustees, until six out of the
seven original trustees had died."
In Foster v. Mansfield &c. Rd., 146 U. S. 88, 99, 100, it
was said:
"If a person be ignorant of his -interest in a certain
transaction, no negligence is imputable to him for failing
to inform himself of his rights; but 'if he is aware of his
interest, and knows that proceedings are pending the
result of which may be prejudicial to such interests, he
is bound to look into such proceedings so far as to see
that no action is taken to his detriment."
Boyd had actual knowledge. If he had sought to intervene, I have no doubt he would have been permitted to
do. so. He chose to do nothing, and now asks a court of
equity, after the purchaser has been for more than a decade
in undisturbed possession and ownership, to declare the
judicial sale invalid as against him. The case is without merit, and the bill should have been dismissed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HOLMES
JUSTICE

VAN DEVANTER concur in this dissent.

and MR.

