FeROSCH v. WALTER.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

FROSCH v. WALTER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 192.

Argued March 17, 18, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

A declaration in a deed of trust which clearly shows that the sole object of the instrument is to provide for certain specifically named
children of the grantor who has other children, so dominates the
instrument that the word " children" when thereafter used will be
construed as referring to those particular -children and not to include any other children of the grantor.
While the word "heirs" if. used as a term of purchase in a will may
signify whoeyer may be such at the 'estator's death, the word
"children" as used in the deed involved in this case should be construed as including only those persons answering the description at
the time of execution.
Surviving children of the grantor in such an instrument held to include
children of one of the children specifically mentioned who had died
prior to the grantor.
34 App. D. C. 338, reversed.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of a deed

conveying real estate in trust, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ralph P. Barnard,Mr. M. J. Colbert and Mr. Benjamin F. Leighton, with whom Mr. Guy H. Johnson,
Mr. H. T. Taggart and Mr. Oliver Metzerott were on the

brief, for appellants.
Mr. James B. Archer, with whom Mr. Andrew Lipscomb
and Mr. Jno. Lewis Smith were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the

opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by Catharine Frosch
against a trustee under a deed to compel him to transfer

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

to her or otherwise according to the construction of the
instrument certain of the property conveyed by the deed.
Other parties in interest are joined, and argument has
been heard on their behalf. The facts are as follows:
John Walter, the plaintiff's father, executed the deed on
June 18, 1869. At that time his first wife had died leaving
five children of whom the plaintiff is one, and he had
married agaip.
Two of these children, John Walter, Junior, and William
Walter, were of age. On the date mentioned their father
gave them severally certain property in fee simple, and
then made the deed before us, reciting therein that he
was "desirous of making provision for his children by his
first wife, to-wit: Catharine Magdalena Sophia Walter,
[the plaintiffI George N. Walter, and Mrs. Barbara
King," these three then being under age. The final limiiation is the one to be construed, but it will be understood
better when the previous ones have been summed up.
The deed conveys to John Walter, Jr., certain parcels
of land in trust, after certain contingent prior payments
and after the death of the grantor, to hold the first named
parcel and pay the rents and profits to the plaintiff for
life and then to hold for the use of her children in fee.
It similarly disposes of a bond for $10,000, given by
John Walter, Jr., to his father as part consideration for
the above mentioned gift to him, stating that it is "in
order to equalize the division of my property between
my said children." Then comes a gift of the second and
third parcels upon like limitations and trusts for another
daughter, Mrs. Barbara King, and also of secured notes
for $7300, like the gift of the bond for' Catharine, "in
order more fully to equalize the division of his property,
among his children." The fourth parcel is given upon
similar trust for George N. Walter, the youngest son.
Then comes the doubtful clause. "In the event of the
death of any one of the above-mentioned children of the

FROSCH v. WALTER.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

said John Walter, Senior, to-wit: Catherine, George &
Barbara, without leaving any child or children or any
issue of any child or children, then and in that case that
the property held in trust by said Trustee, party of the
second part, for the benefit of the party then dying without
issue, shall be sold by said party of the second part, after
the death of John Walter, Senior, and the proceeds paid
over in equal portions to the surviving children of the
said John Walter, Senior." John Walter, Senior, died
on April 12, 1907. Before that date George had died in
1892 unmarried, and it is the disposition to be made of
his share that is in question here. Barbara had died on
August 23, 1904, leaving eight children, defendants
herein, and John Walter, Jr., had died on November 17,
1906, leaving two children, defendants herein. William
Walter, who with John had been provided for separately,
survives and also is made a defendant. The grantor's
second wife afterwards died, childless, and he married
a third wife, who died leaving four children, also defendants in,
this suit. It may be remarked, if in any way
material, that the grantor in 1900 provided for these
last mentioned children by gifts similar to the above,
subject like them to a life estate in himself.
To begin with the claim of the children of the third
marriage, we are of opinion that it is unfounded. The
word heirs if used as a term of purchase in a will, might
be held to reach forward and to signify whoever might
turn out to be such by the law in force and applicable
at the testator's death. But this is a deed and the word
is children. In view of what we have to say further, it
is enough to state our opinion that the word as here used
is confined to persons who answered the description at
the moment when the deed was executed and spoke.
The Court of Appeals held that all persons were embraced who answered that description at that time,
provided they survived the grantor, and directed a de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

cree in favor of the plaintiffs, Catharine and William
Walter. 34 App. D. C. 338. But we take a different view.
In the first place we are of opinion that the word children
as used habitually in the deed means the three children
for whom it declares at the outset that its object is to
provide. That very declaration not only dominates
the deed as a statement of the sole reason for the whole
thing, but foreshadows the mode of referring to these
three children in terms broad enough to signify all-'is
desirous of making provisions for his children by his
first wife'-a phrase only cut down by a'to-wit: Catharine,
George and Mrs. King.' When the grantor speaks of
equalizing his property "between my said children" we
understand him to refer to the three that have been mentioned together under that name. And we understand
him to mean nothing different when later he speaks of
equalizing the division of his property among his children.
This interpretation perhaps is strengthened by the fact
that 'my property' cannot properly include that which
had been conveyed to his two elder sons and therefore
that the equalizing contemplated was an equalizing as
between the three children among whom his remaining
property was divided by the present deed.
In the clause under consideration he shows whom he
had meant by 'said children' when he says 'above mentioned children,
. .
to-wit: Catharine, George and
Barbara'-and when a few lines further on he says 'surviving children' the inference is strong that he means
the children that up to that moment he had been talking
about by that name throughout. It would seem that
the grantor considered that he had made a division that
would be fair as against the two elder children who had
received their gifts in fee, if each of the three children
and after them their descendants respectively received and
retained the portion allotted to each. The groups set
over against each other in his mind were the two adults

FROSCH v. WALTER.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and the three minors. If one of the latter died without
issue and his share went to the other two the equality
was kept up because all of the three were equally subject
to the chance, but assuming a substantial equality between
the five lots the two adults being subject to no chance
of loss had no claim to a chance of gain. It follows that
William Walter is excluded, contrary to the decree of the
Court of Appeals.
There remains the question whether children of Barbara
King are entitled to share with Catharine as held by the
Supreme Court. The Court of Appeals was of opinion
that the interest of Barbara King was contingent upon
her surviving the grantor, and that as she died before him
her children could not take, the word children obviously
being used in its proper sense and not embracing issue of
such children, mentioned antithetically in the same sentence. It reached this conclusion because the direction to
sell and distribute did not operate till after the death of the
grantor and in its view the time of distribution determined
the time of vesting an individual title in any child. On
this point also we take a different view. The limitation
over on the death of one of the three children without
issue was of general import and scope, and was not confined
to such a death before the grantor's. If George had died
after his father instead of before the gift over still would
have taken effect. Surviving children then means those
of the three children who survive the child who dies without issue. The death of the child determines who shall
take as surviving children. It is true that if that death
happens before the grantor's the distribution is postponed,
but that obviously is inserted to exclude any implication
that in that event the grantor gives up the life estate
that he has reserved throughout. It does not appear
to us to warrant the conclusion that the time of the child's
death with reference to this collateral fact was to affect
the nature or quality of the interest given to the children
VOL. ccxxvn-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY.

J., concurring.

228 U. S.

who survive. It is true that the gift is contained in the
direction for distribution after sale, but in view of our
opinion that it would have operated equally whenever
George died, and that the reason of the postponement
of distribution to after the grantor's death was solely on
the grantor's own account, that fact cannot affect the
result. The decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed
and the original decree of the Supreme Court will be restored.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, concurring.

I concur in the result reached, and agree with the reasoning expressed in the opinion of the court except upon one
point. The opinion states:
"The limitation over on the death of one of the three
children without issue was of general import and scope,
and was not confined to such a death before the grantor's.
If George had died after his father, instead of before,
the gift over still would have taken effect."
Upon this point I agree with the view expressed in the
opinion of the Supreme Court of the District, that-" The
equitable title to George's portion, subject to the life
estate of John Walter, Sr., became vested in the complainant herein (Mrs. Frosch) and her sister, Barbara King,
at George's death, May 14, 1892. Being so vested,
Barbara's share passed by her death to her eight children;
and William Walter, the children of John Walter, Jr.,
and the four children of the third wife, have no share in
the said property."

