NORFOLK & W. RY. CO. v. DIXIE TOBACCO CO. 593
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228 U. S.

NORFOLK & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
DIXIE TOBACCO COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 265.

Argued April 28, 1913.-Decided May 12, 1913.

Under Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, and Galveston, Harrisburg &c. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481, which sustained the Carmack Amendment, stipulations in a bill of lading for
interstate shipment that no. carrier shall be liable for damages not
occurring on its portion of the through route, are void; and the initial
carrier is liable whether the through route connections are designated
by it or by the shipper.
111 Virginia, 813, affirmed.
THE

facts, which involve the constitutionality of the

Carmack Amendment when applied to interstate ship=
ments on through routes where the connecting carriers
are designated by the shipper, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Francis Markoe Rivinus (by special leave), with
whom Mr. S. Griffin, Mr. Thomas Reath and Mr. Theodore
W. Reath were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Obeying the canon of construction that of two possible
constructions, one constitutional and the other unconstitutional, the constitutional construction will be adopted,
this court has construed the Carmack Amendment to
fasten liability on the primary carrier only if that carrier
has by some voluntary act accepted liability to destination. Lake Shore & Mich. Southern R. Co. v. Smith, 173
U. S. 684; A. C. L. R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186; G., H. & S. A. R. R. Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481.
An initial carrier cannot refuse a shipment designated
for a point beyond its own line. A. C, L. R. R. Co. v.
VOL. ccxxviii-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Riverside Mills, supra; Seasongood v. Tenn. & Ohio River
Transp. Co., 21 Ky. Law Rep. 1142; Inman v. St. L.
Southwestern Ry. Co., 14 Tex. Civ. App. 39; Hutchinson
on Carriers, 3d ed., ยง 226; Galveston Comm. Assn. v. A., T.
& S. F. Ry. Co., 25 I. C. C. Rep. 216.
At common law a carrier was not obliged to issue a bill
of lading, but the Carmack Amendment creates a substantive duty to issue a receipt or bill of lading which shall
describe the true place of destination for every interstate
shipment. Johnson v. Stoddard, 100 Massachusetts, 306;
Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Wallace,
223 U. S. 481; Enterprise Transp. Co. v. Penna. R. R., 12
I. C. C. Rep. 327.
Plaintiff in error in issuing the bill of lading with final
destination (Marshall, Texas) shown therein complied
with the express requirement of the statute and did not
act voluntarily.
The Carmack Amendment does not apply to the
plaintiff in error as it by no voluntary act assumed a
relation with or liability for loss on any connecting
carrier.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by the defendant in error to
recover for damage to tobacco shipped by it on the railroad
at Bedford City, Virginia, to Marshall, Texas. The plaintiff got a verdict and judgment, which was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Appeals (111 Virginia, 813), the
case having been taken there on the ground that the act
of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, ยง 7, 34 Stat. 584, 595, amending
ยง 20 of ihe Act to Regulate Commerce, of February 4, 1887,
c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 386, is unconstitutional. This section
requires any common carrier receiving property for trans-

NORFOLK & W. RY. CO. v. DIXIE TOBACCO CO. 595
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

portation from a point in one State to a point in another
to issue a receipt or bill of lading for the same; makes the
receiving carrier liable for loss caused by any common
carrier in transitu; and provides that no contract shall
exempt it from the liability thus imposed.
The bill of lading stipulated that no carrier should be
liable for damages not occurring on its portion of the
through route. There was evidence that the tobacco was
damaged after it left the railroad company's hands; and
the defendant asked an instruction that if the jury believe
that it delivered the tobacco in good order to the next
carrier the verdict should be in its favor. This instruction
was refused and the defendant excepted. There was
evidence also that the plaintiff chose the route for the
tobacco, being partly by sea and a different one from that
which the railroad would have adopted, which would have
been all rail. The railroad had no through route or rate
established with the line of steamers by which the tobacco
went. Instructions were asked and refused, subject to
exception, that the bill of lading controlled, and that the
above statute, so far as it attempts to invalidate limitations or liabilities like that quoted above, is void.
. The Supreme Court of Appeals followed the ruling in
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186 (to which may be added Galveston, Harrisburg& San
Antonio Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481), as conclusive.
The plaintiff in error contends that these cases may be
distinguished on the ground that in both of them it was
to be presumed that the carrier was a voluntary party to
a through route and rate, whereas here the stipulation
against liability beyond its line and the fact that it had
no through route with the steamship company exclude
that. presumption. It argues that as it was bound to
accept goods 'destined beyond its line for delivery to the
next carrier and was required by the statute to give a
through bill of lading, if on such compulsory acceptance

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

it is made answerable for damages done by others its
property is taken without due process of law. But in the
former case there was the same stipulation in the bill of
lading, and the supposed through routes were only presumed. In the second case the carrier is spoken of as
voluntarily accepting goods for a point beyond its line,
but there too there was the same attempt to limit liability,
and in the present case the acceptance was voluntary in
the same degree as in that. There is no substantial distinction between the earlier decisions and this.
Judgment affirmed.

CONSOLIDATED TURNPIKE COMPANY v. NORFOLK & OCEAN VIEW RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 152.

Petition for rehearing submitted April 28, 1913.-Decided
May 12, 1913.

Petition for rehearing granted, not because of doubt of correctness of
the decree, but to preVent misconception concerning the reasons for
dismissing the writ of error in this case, ante, p. 326.
The certificate of the judge of the court below that a Federal question
was raised and passed upon is not, in the absence of any journal entry, a certificate of the court, but this court may, if there is a recital
in the certificate that the court orders the certificate to be made,
accept it as incorporating into the record the necessary proof of
existence of a Federal question. Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 212,
distinguished.
Where the judgment of the state court rests upon a question of general
law broad enough to support the decision, this court will not consider the Federal question, although it may have been raised in, and
passed upon by, the court below. Gaar,Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223
U. S. 468.

