Wm. CRAMP SONS v. CURTISS TURBINE CO. 645
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

even though it be admitted that there would be a possibility if the text were narrowly considered, to take this case
out of the operation of the section, its obvious spirit and
intent, as illustrated and made cogent by the entire text
of the act, by the purpose which it was intended to subserve, the distinction between secured and unsecured

creditors which it draws, all conclusively demonstrate
the correctness of the principle which the court below

applied, and by which it held this case was not controlled

by the doctrine by it announced in In re Milne.

WILLIAM CRAMP & SONS SHIP & ENGINE BUILDING COMPANY v. INTERNATIONAL CURTISS
MARINE TURBINE COMPANY.
PETITION FOR CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 1032.

Petition for writ of certiorari submitted April 14, 1913.Decided May 26, 1913.

This court does not sanction the pocedure of the trial court in virtually
declining to examine the merits of the case and entering a pro forma
decree for the sake of expediting the hearing of the case on appeal,
even though the court were actuated in so doing by a sense of public
duty.
Under ยง 120 of the Judicial Code, which is a reenactment of a provision
to the same effect in the act of March 3, 1891, a judge who has heard
the case in the first instance may not sit in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the purpose of reviewing his own action, even though in
the court below he'merely entered a decree pro forma without expressing any opinion on the merits and no objection was raised by
either party to his sitting in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The trial and disposition of-a case by a court organized in violation of
a direct provision of statute is such a grave error and involves con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

siderations of such public importance as make it the duty of this
court toallow a writ of certiorari without considering the merits.
Where it. is manifest on the petition for certiorari that the judgment
sought to be reviewed was rendered by a court not properly organized, this court need proceed no further; in such a case the writ of
certiorari may be granted, the petition stand as a return to the writ,
the judgment reversed and the cause remanded.

THE facts, which involve the construction of ยง 120 of
the Judicial Code prohibiting the judge passing on the
cause in the first instance from sitting in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and the procedure of this court in regard to a
case here on petition for certiorari in which such a condition
exists, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James R. Sheffield, Mr. Clifton V. Edwards and Mr.
Samuel Dickson for the petitioner.
Mr. Frederick P. Fish and Mr. R. N. Dyer for the respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
The Curtiss Marine Turbine Companies, the respondents, as the owners of several United States letters patent,
sued the Cramp & Sons Ship and Engine Building Company, the petitioner, for infringement, because that company had contracted with the Navy Department to build
certain torpedo boat destroyers to be propelled by turbine
engines, which were to be constructed by the Cramp Company in accordance with specifications which, it was alleged, would cause the engines when built in accordance
with the contract, to infringe the patents sued upon.
The Cramp Company questioned the jurisdiction of the
court on the ground that as it had made or proposed to
make no engines which could under any possible view be

Wm. CRAMP SONS v. CURTISS TURBINE CO.
228 U. S.

647

Opinion of the Court.

an infringement of the patents sued on, except the engines
which it was engaged in making for the United States, for
use in its war vessels, there was no right to an injunction
and therefore no jurisdiction in equity. Defenses as to
the merits of the cause were also set up challenging the
novelty of the matters covered by the patents sued upon

and denying in any event that the engines to be built under the contracts would infringe the patents relied upon.
When the case was ripe for hearing, on February 1, 1911,
it was argued and taken under advisement by the court.
On April 10, the court announced the following memorandum opinion:
"Since the argument of this case the current business of
the court has engaged my time so fully that I have not
been able to consider it. If it is to receive the study it requires, at least two or three weeks' continuous attention
would be necessary. Other matters also, to which I need
not refer more particularly, have concurred to prevent
me from taking it up, and I have therefore decided to enter
a pro forma decree, in order to send the controversy to the
Court of Appeals as speedily as possible. I wish to add
with emphasis that the decree now to be entered in favor of
the defendants is not to be construed as affording the
slightest intimation of my opinion concerning the merits.

I have formed no opinion whatever on that subject; but,
as the unusual importance of the suit will certainly carry
it to the appellate courts, I feel justified under the circumstances in making a purely formal disposition of the
matter in its present stage.
"The clerk is directed to enter a decree dismissing the
bill. For. the present, no order concerning costs will be
made in this court."
A proforma decree was entered against the complainants
dismissing the bill. The case having been taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, that court found that one of the
patents sued upon was valid and had been infringed. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 V. 8.

decree of the District Court was therefore reversed and the
case was remanded with directions to enter a decree for
damages but without allowing an injunction. For the
purpose of hearing and disposing of the case, the Court of
Appeals was composed of two circuit judges and of the
district judge who had heard the case below, had announced the memorandum opinion and had entered the
pro forma decree of dismissal. In disposing of the case
the court, referring to the action of the trial court in entering the pro forma decree, said:
"In order to secure an early hearing by a full bench of
this court and with its consent a formal decree was entered
by stipulation. On appeal the cause is now really heard
at first instance, and finally by this court."
On the refusal by the court below, of an application to
rehear, the application for certiorari, which we are now
considering, was made. It is based upon the following
grounds which it is insisted involve considerations apart
from questions of mere error, of so grave a character and
of such general importance as to justify the allowance
of the writ of certiorari for their correction. First, the
action of the trial court in failing to examine and pass upon
the case, and in entering a merely pro forma decree as a
means of expediting the ultimate and final decision of the
cause in the Circuit Court of Appeals. Second, the participation by the District Judge who had heard the case
below and had entered the decree which was under review
in the hearing and decision of the case in the Circuit Court
of Appeals. Third, the public consideration which the
decision of the cause involves as demonstrated by the fact
that the only act of infringement relied upon, consisted
in the execution by the defendants of a contract with the
Government for the construction of vessels of war.
As to the first ground, however much we may appreciate
the sense of public duty which led the trial court virtually
to decline to examine the merits of the case and enter the

WM. CRAMP SONS v. CURTISS TURBINE CO.
228 U. S.

640

Opinion of the Court.

pro forma decree so that no time might be lost in taking
the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, we do not wish
to be understood as giving our sanction to such procedure.
Although we say this, we nevertheless think the contention which is based upon the action of the court, in this
respect, is without merit, first, because no objection seems
to have been made concerning the matter in the trial
court, and none, it also seems, was raised on the hearing
in the Circuit Court of Appeals. Indeed, that court, as
we have pointed out, considered that the action of the
trial court was the result of a stipulation between the
parties. While it is true the accuracy of this conception
of the situation is questioned in the brief filed on this
hearing, by the petitioners, it is not suggested that any
objection was made in the trial court to the entry of a
merely pro forma decree or that any error was predicated
upon such action when the case was heard in the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The second proposition is of graver moment because of
the proviso to ยง 120, of the Judicial Code, saying "that
no judge before whom a cause or question may have
been tried or heard in a district court, or existing circuit
court, shall sit on the trial or hearing of such cause or
question in the Circuit Court of Appeals." This provision
is but a reenactment of a prohibition found in the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, chap. 517, and its
controlling application to this case is not open to controversy. Rexford v. Brunswick-Balke Co., ante, p. 339, 344,
and cases cited.
But it is said, although the strict letter of the prohibition may be here applicable, its spirit and purpose are not
here controlling because the judge who heard and disposed
of the case in the first instance, and who sat in the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the purpose of reviewing his own
action did not in substance form or express an opinion on
the case in the first instance, but merely entered a-pro

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

forma decree for the purpose of enabling the case to be
heard for the first time by the reviewing court acting pro
hac vice as a court of first instance. This contention is
devoid of merit, since it must rest upon the conception that
a trial judge, despite the express prohibition of the statute,
may endow himself with power to sit in the Court of
Appeals and review a decree by him rendered if only from
a mistaken sense of duty he has adjudicated the merits of
a case without considering them. It is urged, however,
that as no objection was made to the participation of the
trial judge in the hearing and decision of the case in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and indeed that consent was
given to his doing so, the objection is not now open, and
the statute therefore should not be applied. Conceding,
however, that the asserted consent was given, the error of
the conclusion based upon it is conclusively demonstrated
by the construction long since affixed to the statute, and
quite recently reiterated and enforced in Rexford v.
Brunswick-Balke Company, supra. Indeed, as pointed out
in the Rexford Case, the comprehensive and inflexible
character of the prohibition was intended to prevent resort
to consent of the party or parties as a means of qualifying
a judge to participate in the decision of a case in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, when without such consent,
because of the prohibition of the statute, he would be
disqualified from so doing, a purpose whose public policy
is not difficult to understand.
As the considerations just stated demonstrate that the
case was tried and disposed of below, by a court organized,
not in conformity to law, but in violation of the express
prohibitions of the statute, we think it plainly results
that an error of so grave a character and involving considerations of such public importance was committed as
to cause it to be our duty to allow the writ of certiorari,
without at all considering for the purpose of such allowance
the questions urged concerning the merits of the cause.

WM. CRAMP SONS v. CURTISS TURBINE CO.
228 U. S.

651

Opinion of the Court.

In view, however, of the character of the error which
causes us to allow the writ, that is, the mistaken organization of the court below, the question naturally arises,
what is our immediate and further duty; that is, must we,
after granting the writ, permit the case to remain on the
docket until in turn it is reached for hearing, or should we
at once, on the allowance of the writ, remand the case so
that it may be heard and disposed of in the court below,
conformably to the statute? If the first course be pursued,
it is obvious not only that delay must follow, but that
when the merits are heard we will be virtually exerting
the powers of a court of first instance, since we will be
called upon, not to review the action of a court below,
organized conformably to law, but to decide, virtually in
the exercise of original jurisdiction, questions which the
law contemplated should be previously passed upon by an
inferior court lawfully constituted. Under such circumstances we think, as pointed out in Lutcher & Moore
Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 267-268, our duty is
not to hold the case upon the docket, for ultimate decision
upon the merits, but to at once reverse and remand to the
court below so that the case may be heard by a competent
court, conformably to the requirements .of the statute.
When on approaching in the Lutcher & Moore Case the
consideration of the merits of the case, pending because of
a previous allowance of a writ of certiorari, it developed
that the Court of Appeals had virtually failed to decide
the case and therefore that a review of the merits here
would be in substance but the exercise of original jurisdiction it was held that the duty was not to do so, but to
remand the cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals, so that
that court might properly discharge the duty cast upon
it by law. Such conclusion is of course cogently applicable here, where the question is not merely an error committed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in failing to
decide the merits, but an error resulting from the fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

that the Circuit Court of Appeals which passed upon the
case, was virtually no court at all, because not organized
in conformity to law.
Our orders will therefore be:
Writ of certiorarigranted; the record of such writ to stand
as a return. And,
The decree of the CircuitCourt of Appeals will be reversed
and the cause remanded with directions for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.

MATTER OF THE APPLICATION OF SPENCER,
EX PARTE.
MATTER

OF THE APPLICATION OF SCHOLL,
EX PARTE.

MATTER OF THE APPLICATION OF MOYER,
EX PARTE.
MOTIONS FOR LEAVE TO FILE APPLICATIONS FOR WRITS OF
HABEAS CORPUS.
Nos. 16, 17, 18, Original.

Argued April 28, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

It is only in exceptional cases that this court will interfere by habeas
corpus with the course, or final administration, of the criminal justice
of the States by their respective courts, Urquhartv. Brown, 205 U. S.
179, and this rule applies as well after, as before, sentence.
Justice is satisfied by the opportunity given to defendants accused of
and tried for crime in the state courts to set up their Federal rights
in those courts, and the course of criminal justice will not be deranged
and possibly- defeated by permitting the defenses based on such
rights to be raised for the first time by habeas corpus in the Federal
courts after sentence in the state court.
The writ of habeas corpus is not to be used as a writ of error.

