OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF THE FIRST
NATIONAL BANK OF DEXTER, NEW YORK.
EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF EDWARDS.
IN MANDAMUS.
Nos. 11 and 12, Original. No. 11, Argued March 10, 11, 1913.
Submitted- March 11, 1913.-Decided May 5, 1913.

No. 12,

Striking from the record, for non-compliance with the rules of -court,
the bill of exceptions, after the case has been heard on its merits,
is not a refusal to take jurisdiction or a refusal after taking jurisdiction to exercise it; if the action is erroneous it is but an error committed in the exercise of judicial discretion, reviewable by writ of
error and not by mandamus.
Mandamus in this case to compel the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia to reinstate a bill of exceptions which on motion it had
stricken out for failure to comply with its rules, refused.
THE facts axe stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. S. Worthington and Mr. Charles L. Frailey for
the First National Bank, petitioner.
Mr. W. W. Millan for Edwards, petitioner.
Mr. J. J. Darlingtonfor the respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

By ยง 226 of the Code of Law of the District of Columbia,
the right of appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District
is given to "any party aggrieved by any final order, judgment, or decree of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, or of any justice thereof, including any final

EX PARTE FIRST NATIONAL BANK.

228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

order or judgment in any case heard on appeal from a
justice of the peace." By an act approved February 9,
1893, 27 Stat. 434, c. 74, creating the Court of Appeals,
the justices of the court were invested with the power to
make "such rules and regulations as may be necessary
and proper for the transaction of its business and the
taking of appeals to said court." In the assumed exercise
of such power certain rules were promulgated to govern
the practice on appeals, among which is paragraph 4 of
Rule V, regulating the mode of preparing bills of exceptions and requiring such exceptions to be so prepared as
to present only the rulings of the court below upon matters
of law, accompanied by only such statement of fact as
may be necessary to explain the bearing of the rulings
upon the issues involved, and providing further, that
where a defect of proof is the ground of the ruling or exception, only the substance of the evidence connected
with and having relation to the proposition or propositions
in respect to which' the proof is supposed to be defective
shall be set out in the bill of exceptions.
The 'petitioners herein-the First National Bank of
Dexter, New York, and Benjamin F. Edwards-respectively, commenced actions in the Supreme Court of the
District, against Edmund K. Fox and others to recover
upon notes given as part of the consideration on the
purchase of a yacht. The defense was interposed in each
case that the sale was induced by fraudulent representations and that the plaintiff was not an innocent holder in
due course; so as to exclude -the assertion of such defense.
By order of the trial court, the cases were tried together,
before the same jury, the issues and the testimony being
identical except as to the circumstances under which each
plaintiff acquired the promissory note sued upon in the
respective canes. A verdict was returned in each case for
the defendants, whereupon the plaintiff prosecuted an
appeal to the Court of Appeals. That court, after a hear-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

ing upon the merits, sustained a motion to strike out the
bill of exceptions, because not prepared in conformity
to the rule on the subject, and while a motion for judgment
because of the want of a bill of exceptions was pending
below, we allowed rules to issue upon petitions filed on
behalf of the plaintiffs below, directing the Court of Appeals to show cause why it sh6uld not be commanded to
reinstate the bill of exceptions in the cause in the record
thereof. The respondents answered, and, after detailing
the facts, averred that the action of the court below complained of "was simply the rightful and necessary enforcement by the court of one of its rules, established in
pursuance of the authority to that end conferred upon
it by the act of Congress creating it and necessary to the
due and proper discharge of the business before it."
We deem it unnecessary to detail the contentions as to
the compliance or non-compliance by counsel in the bills
of exceptions referred to with the rule of court on the subject, nor do we think it necessary to consider whether the
rule warranted the particular exertion of power and if it
did authorize such exertion of power, whether it was
amenable to condemnation. In view of the fact that the
case was heard below on the merits-and it was not until
after such hearing that the court sustained the motion to
strike out the bill of exceptions, we are of opinion that the
case presented is not one "where an inferior court refuses
to take jurisdiction when by law it ought to do so, or
where, having obtained jurisdiction, it refuses to proceed
in its exercise." In re Parker, 131 U. S. 221. The court
below, in effect, took jurisdiction, and itsaction in striking
out the bill of exceptions was at best but an error committed in the exercise of its judicial discretion, to correct
which 'is the province of a writ of error where the right to
such writ obtains." Ex parteBrown, 116 U. S. 401; Ex parte
Harding, 219 U. S. 363.
Rule discharged.'

