UNION TRUST CO. v. WESTHUS.
228 U. S.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

UNION TRUST' COMPANY OF ST. LOUIS v.
WESTHUS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN

No. 46.

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Argued November 8, 11, 1912.-Decided May 5, 1913.

By the distribution of power made by the Circuit Court of Appeals
Act of 1891, and now embodied in the Judicial Code of 1911, this
court has no jurisdiction to review a judgment. or decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals otherwise than by proceedings addressed
directly to that court in a cause which is susceptible of being reviewed.
That which can only be done by direct action cannot be done by indirection.
In a case in which on the original pleadings the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals would not have been reviewable by this court,
plaintiff recovered in the Circuit Court and on appeal the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed and remanded for new trial, with an
opinion adverse to all of plaintiff's contentions: plaintiff in the Circuit Court amended by adding an allegation denying due process of
law, and elected not to plead further after demurrer sustained and'
took a direct writ of error to this court basing it on the constitutional
question, and claiming that in this court all other questions could
also be passed on: Held that this court will not in this indirect manner attempt to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which it otherwise has not jurisdiction to review.
This court is scrupulous to keep within its jurisdiction, and if the record
does not show that the Circuit Court of Appeals has already passed
on questions in the case it will order the deficiency supplied by directing the court below to certify all the papers in the case.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court

directly to review the judgment of the Circuit. Court, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. T. Newcomb, with whom Mr. Montague Lyoi
and Mr. S. L. Swarts were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for defendant in
error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error was plaintiff below, and brought this
action to recover a sum levied as a legacy tax under
§§ 29 and 30 of the War Revenue Act of June 13, 1898,
c. 448, 30 Stat. 448, 464, 465, as amended by the act
of March 2, 1901, c. 806, §§ 10, 11, 31 Stat. 938, 946948. The grounds for recovery stated in the petition in
effect presented only questions of statutory construction.
The trial court, being of opinion that a recovery was
justified upon one of the stated grounds, sustained a demurrer to the answer, and, the defendants not desiring
to plead further, judgment was entered for the plaintiff.
The case was then taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
That court in a full and careful opinion reviewed the
grounds for recovery relied upon in the petition, decided
that all the grounds of the claim were without merit and
held there was no right, to the relief prayed. In consequence the judgment of the court below was reversed and
the case was remanded with directions to overrule the
demurrer, and for further proceedings consistent with the
views expressedin the opinion of the court. 164 Fed.
Rep. 795. A petition for rehearing was overruled. 168
Fed. Rep. 617.
On the receipt of the mandate the trial court allowed
the plaintiff to file an amended petition, wherein, in addition to repeating the contentions urged in the original
petition it wa alleged that the "clear value" of the life
estate in question had been fixed and determined by a
method so arbitrary as to amount to a deprivation of
property withou due process of law. A demurrer to this
amended'petitioi was sustained, and, the plaintiff elect-

UNION TRUST CO. v. WESTHUS
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing not to plead further, judgment was entered in favor of
the defendants.
The case was then brought directly to this court Upon
the theory that a constitutional question was involved.
The assignments of error invoked a reexamination of all
the issues including those which had been adversely
passed on by the Circuit Court of Appeals. On these
assignments the case was argued at bar and taken under
advisement on a record which contained only the proceedings had in the trial court subsequent to the filing of the
mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals. While in that
situation the published report of the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals came under our observation. Mindful of the proper consideration due to the Circuit Court of
Appeals and of our duty at all times to be scrupulous to
keep within our jurisdiction, for the purpose of enabling
us to apply the doctrine announced in the case of Aspen
Mining & Smelting Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31, in which
case, as in this, the record did not disclose that the cause
had been passed upon by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
although there was on the files of this court certiorari
proceedings so showing, to which resort was had, we
directed that the court below supply the deficiency, if
any there was, in the record, by certifying all the proceedings had in the case. At once, by stipulation of
counsel, an additional transcript was filed stating the
proceedings on the first trial, the taking of the appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals and the action of that court,
and in the light thus afforded we come first to consider our
jurisdiction over the controversy.
There can be no doubt that on the record upon which
the Circuit Court of Appeals acted the judgment of that
court, if it had been final in form, would have been beyond
our competency to review. Spreckels Sugar Refining Co.
v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397. There can equally be no doubt
that if we have power to pass upon the case on this record,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

our jurisdiction embraces not only the right to decide the
alleged constitutional question raised after the mandate
of the Circuit Court of Appeals had been filed in the trial
court, but also all other questions arising on the record
including those passed upon by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Indeed, it is unnecessary to cite the many
authorities sustaining this view, since the insistence of
the plaintiff in error is that every question is open, and
in effect the argument seeks a review and reversal of the
rulings previously made by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
But by the distribution of power made by the act of 1891
and embodied in the Judicial Code, no jurisdiction is
.conferred upon this court to review a judgment or decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals otherwise than by proceedings addressed directly, to that court in a cause which is
susceptible of being reviewed. Under these conditions
the absence of.jurisdiction to exercise the authority which
we are now asked to exert would seem to be clear unless
the principle be recognized that we have a right to do by
indirection that which the statute gives us power only to
do by direct action. It is, however, said the statute gives
the right to come directly to this court where a constitutional question is involved and as such question was
raised below, albeit after the cause was pending in the
trial court for the purpose of giving effect to the mandate
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, -the right to direct review
exists and cannot be denied without refusing to accord
the relief plainly afforded by the statute. At best this
proposition but involves the assertion that by virtue of
the power conferred to take a direct appeal from one
court, authority is given to indirectly review the decision
of another and higher court, although the statute restricts
the right to review such decision to a direct proceeding.
But resort to original reasoning to establish the unsoundness of the proposition relied on is scarcely necessary, as
that result will be made plainly manifest by applying

UNION TRUST CO. v. WESTHUS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

principles established in the following cases: Aspen Mining
& Smelting Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31, 37; Brown v.
Alton Water Co., 222 -U. S. 325, and Metropolitan Co. v.
Kaw Valley District, 223 U. S. 519. Nor, as in effect held
in the Metropolitan Case, can the case of Globe Newspaper
Co. v. Walker, 210 U. S. 356, be considered as announcing
a doctrine in conflict with the rulings in the Aspen and
Alton cases. And aside from a distinction suggested in
the Metropolitan Case between the Aspen and Alton cases
and the Globe Case, it must follow that if the ruling in the
Globe Case was in anywise in conflict with the doctrine
announced and approved in the Metropolitan Case, to the
extent of such conflict it was necessarily qualified by that
decision.
It is insisted, however, that in both the Aspen and the
Alton cases, the questions which it was sought to review
by direct appeal after the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals had been, either expressly or by necessary
implication, passed upon by that court and therefore were
expressly foreclosed, while here such is not the case, since
the constitutional question was not in the case when it
went to the Circuit Court of Appeals, but only made its
appearance by an amendment to the pleadings after the
decision of that court. Granting the premise upon which
the argument rests, the deduction is unfounded. The
ruling in both the Aspen and Alton cases rested upon the
plain ground of the duty of this court not to exert a power
not conferred, of the impossibility of proceeding upon the
theory that error could be said to have been committed
by the trial court because it had applied the decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals or of maintaining the right
to the direct appeal which was relied upbn in those cases
consistently with the power of the Circuit Court of Appeals, not only to decide questions within its jurisdiction,
but moreover to determine whether,' when in a particular
case it had decided such questions and remanded the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

in which they had been decided to a trial court for further
proceedings that court had in such further proceedings
given due effect to its decision. Indeed these considerations were expounded in the Metropolitan Case, and it
was there pointed out that the attempt to make a distinction upon the mere form of the mandate was without
merit (p. 523). Looked at arguendo, however, as a matter
of first impression, the source of the error which the proposition here relied upon involves is not difficult to perceive. It consists in pursuing a mistaken avenue of ap'proach to this court; that is, of coming directly from a
trial court in a case where, by reason of the cause having
been previously decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
the way to that court should have been pursued even if it
was proposed to ultimately bring the case here. The error
comes from attempting, after the case has been taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals and been there decided, to
resort to proceedings for review which under the statute
are applicable only in case no such action by the Circuit
Court of Appeals had been taken. A consideration of the
confusion, which inevitably would result if the doctrine of
the Metropolitan,Alton and Aspen cases were not applied,

of the necessity which would arise for denying powers
conferred upon the Circuit Court of Appeals by the statute
and of calling into play a power of review by this court not
given, clearly demonstrates the error of the right to direct
appeal here insisted upon. And the correctness of the
rule announced in the Aspen Case and which was reiterated
in the Alton and Metropolitan cases, which we again now
apply, is shown by the complete concordance between all
of the provisions of the statute which will be brought
about by its application.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

this case.

took no part in the decision of

