TEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v. HARVEY.
228 U. S.

TEXAS

Counsel for Parties.

&

PACIFIC RAILWAY
HARVEY.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 204.

Argued March 20, 1913.-Decided April 14, 1913.

In Texas, the common-law rule as to risks assumed by the employ6 has
been qualified by statute so that the employ6 is relieved from giving
notice of defects where a person of ordinary intelligence would have
continued in service with knowledge of such defect.
Ordinarily, and unless so evident that fair-minded men could not differ
in regard thereto, negligence'orcontributory negligence is not a
question of law but of fact to be settled by the finding of the jury.
Richmond & Danville R. R. Co. v. Powers, 149 U. S. 43.
In this case the court having charged that there could be no recovery
if there was contributory negligence on the part of the deceased and
also having specially charged that there could be no recovery if the
deceased wa n6t acting with the care of an ordinarily prudent man,
there wgs no error.
The appellate court is not a jury and has no power to grant a new trial.
That matter rests in the sound discretion of the trial court, and in a
case of this kind its decision cannot be disturbed unless it appears
that contributory negligence was so evident that it became a question
of law requiring the court to take the case from the jury.
184 Fed. Rep. 990, affirmed.

facts, which involve the validity of a verdict against
a railway company for damages for causing death of an
employ6, are stated in the the opinion.
THE

Mr. F. H. Prendergast,with whom Mr. W. L. Hall was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Cone Johnson, Mr. Jas. M. Edwards and Mr. S. P.
Jones, for defendant in error, submitted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

MR. JUSTIc, DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes to this court from the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit because The Texas &
Pacific Railway Company is a Federal corporation. The
action was brought by Amanda Harvey to recover for the
death of her son, W. S. Harvey, occasioned by the negligence of the Railway Company while he was in its employ. The judgment against the Railway Company
entered by the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Texas, to which court the case had been removed, was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The Railway Company maintained a roundhouse at
Marshall, Texas, which was constructed in a crescent
form, having near the entrance a turntable. Numerous
tracks coming from the roundhouse converged at the
turntable, the narrowest point within the roundhouse being at the entrance. A number of posts, serving to support
the roof, were located at the entrance to the roundhouse,
and the locomotives, in going into and coming from the
roundhouse, passed between such posts, a large locomotive,
the testimony tends to show, passing within four or five
inches of the posts. It appears that on the day of the
injury one McGilvery served as hostler in and about the
roundhouse; that Harvey, the deceased, was employed
as a hostler's helper, the regular helper of one Rix, and
that one George was also a hostler's helper regularly of
one Adams, but on that day serving with McGilvery,
who was taking the place of Adams in his temporary
absence. It also appeared that a hostler took the place
of an engineer and that it was customary for a hostler's
helper to get upon an engine, to give and receive signals
and for that purpose to look out of the cab window, to
throw and set switches, to accompany the engine to the
coal chute and water tank, to supply it with coal and water
with a view to its going upon the road, and to otherwise

TEX. &-PAC. RY. CO. v. HARVEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assist the hostler in his work; and, further, that frequently
one helper would assist another helper because the appliances at the chute were heavy and difficult for one man
to operate. On the day of the accident, the testimony
discloses, Harvey got upon the engine and took a seat
in the cab window on the left side, his hips protruding
somewhat over the sill; and George took a similar position,
beside Harvey and on the latter's right, on the same side
of the engine. McGilvery got upon the engine on the other
side, where he could not be seen by Harvey because of
the boiler. All three having got upon the engine to coal
and otherwise prepare it for the road, McGilvery started
the engine out of the roundhouse. It had gone but a few
feet when Harvey was crushed between the post and the
casing of the cab window .in such manner that he was
fatally injured and shortly died. George; sitting in the
same posture, but less 'exposed, passed the post unhurt.
The negligence charged is the failure, of the Railway
Company to provide a safe place to work and that the
posts were so placed as to make it dangerous to use the
locomotive in passing them. The question of the Railway Company's negligence was submitted to the jury in a
charge to which no objection in this respect was taken,
and the case is brought here because of the rulings made
in the trial court and affirmed in the Circuit Court of
Appeals concerning the defenses, on the Railway Company's behalf, of assumed risk and contributory negligence.
At the common law a servant assumes the ordinary
risks of his employment, but he is not obliged to pass upon
the methods chosen by his employer in discharging the
latter's duty to provide suitable appliances and a safe
place to work, and he does not assume the risk of the
employer's- negligence in performing such duty. This
rule is subject to the exception that, where a defect is
known to the employ6 or is so patent as to be readily
observed by him, he cannot continude to use the defective
VOL, QQNX.v_11--1

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

appliance, in the face of knowledge and without objection,
without himself assuming the hazard incident to such a
situation. If a defect is so plainly observable that the
servant may be presumed to know its existence and he
continues in the master's employment'without objection,
he is said to have made his election to thus continue,
notwithstanding the master's neglect, and in such a case
.he cannot recover. Choctaw, Oklahoma &c. R. R. Co. v.
McDade, 191 U. S. 64; Schlemmer v. Buffalo &c. Ry. Co.,
220 U. S. 590, 596.
In Texas, however, where this accident happened, the
rule of assumed risk has been qualified by statute. The
statute of April 24, 1905, Gen. Laws 1905, c. 163, p. 386,
is as follows:
"That in any suit against a person, corporation or
receiver operating a railroad or street railway for damages
for the death or personal injury of an employ6 or servant,
caused by the wrong or negligence of such person, corporation or receiver, the plea of assumed risk of the deceased
or injured employ where the ground of the plea is knowledge or means of knowledge of the defect and danger
which caused the injury or death shall not be available in
the following cases.
*

*

*

*

*

*

ii

*

"Second. Where a person of ordinaxy care would have
continued in the service with the knowledge of the defect
and danger and in such case it shall not be necessary that
the servant or employ6 give notice of the defect as provided in subdivision 1 hereof."
The above. statute was construed in Houston & Texas
Central R.. R. Co. v. Alexander, 102 Texas, 497. In that
case the Supreme Court of Texas held that the effect of the
act was "to deny to the railroad company the defense of
assumed risk in case 'the defect or danger' which caused
the injury was such that a person of ordinary prudence

IEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v. HARVEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

under like circumstances 'would have continued in the
service."' In concluding its discussion of the statute the
court said (p. 505):
"The purpose of the law under consideration was to
secure the servant against the injustice of being denied
reparation for injuries which he received while in the
faithful performance of his duties and arising out of the
circumstances and conditions over which he could not
possibly have control, and under circumstances which
would authorize him in the exercise of ordinary care to
continue in the service by using the defective machinery
or implements."
This view of the statute was given in the charge of the
trial court in the 'present case, and the jury was also
instructed as follows:
"Then on the question of assumed risk only, you will
determine whether or not a man of ordinary prudence and
caution would have continued in the employ of the defendant knowing the position of the post and the circumstances
there-7that is if that post was too close to the track, it was
open and visible to anybody using the track, and its
proximity to the track could be seen. The question then
is, whether or not under subdivision two of this act a
person of ordinary care would have continued in the
service with the knowledge of the defect and danger. If
you find from the evidence that the post was too close to
the track and that the danger was obvious, then you will
determine whether or not Mr. Harvey in continuing in
the employ of the defendant, exercised the care that a
person of ordinary prudencewould have exercised under
the circumstantes-that is, whether a person of ordinary
prudence would have continued in the service. If you
find that a person of ordinary care would have continued
in the service under those circumstances, then you are
charged that he would not assume the risk of injury.
But, if you find from the evidence that a person of or-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

dinary care would not have continued in the service of the
defendant, then you are charged that he would assume the
risk of injury, and could not recover. That is a question
for you to determine from all the evidence."
On the branch of the case dealing with assumption of
risk we think the charge of the trial court was as favorable
to the Railroad Company as it could properly have been
under the statute. If the doctrine of assumed risk applied
to this case, it was because the alleged defect was so
palpable and visible that Harvey was presumed to know
of it, although there was no direct proof upon that subject, and, by continuing to work, to have taken upon
himself the hazard of injury from that source. The Texas
statute, as we have said, qualified the rule of assumed
risk by limiting it to cases where a man of ordinary prudence would not continue to work with such knowledge,
real or imputed.
The question principally argued concerns the alleged
contributory, negligence of the deceased under the circumstances shown. It has often been held in this court
that ordinarily negligence or contributory negligence is
not a question of law but of fact, to be settled by the
finding of the jury. Where there is uncertainty as to the
existence of negligence or contributory negligence, whether
such uncertainty arises from a conflict of testimony or
because, 'the facts being undisputed, fairminded men
might honestly draw different conclusions therefrom, the
question is not one of law. Richmond & Danville Railroad
Co. v. Powers, 149 U. S. 4A, 45, and cases there cited.
The charge of the court as to contributory negligence
was distinctly and clearly that the plaintiff could not
recover if the negligence of the deceased contributed to the
injury resulting in his death, and at the close of the charge
the court gave a special request, made by the defendant,
in which the Jury was again told that the plaintiff could
not recover if Harvey at the time was not acting with

TEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v. HARVEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the care of an ordinarily prudent man when he protruded
his hips beyond the window in the manner stated.
There is little dispute as to the facts in this case. We
have stated them as the evidence tends to show them.
Can it be said that the inference of negligence is so plain
that all fairminded men would be compelled to that conclusion upon a consideration of the facts? The appellate
court is not a jury for the trial of a case, nor do we have
the powers of a court to grant a new trial, which in the
Federal practice is a matter resting in the sound discretion
of the trial court. The question and the sole question is,
Was the contributory negligence so evident, applying the
rules we have already stated, that it became a question of
law requiring the court to take the case from the jury by
direction to return a verdict for the Railway Company
because of the contributory negligence of the deceased?
We are not prepared to answer this question in the affirmative. Under all the circumstances, as we have related
them, we cannot say, as an appellate court, that the trial
court was wrong in leaving the question to the jury under
the fair and full instructions given.
The other errors assigned concern the requests of the
defendant below for a peremptory instruction in its favor
because Harvey had placed himself in the window where
none of his duties required him to be; but the record discloses that it was customary for a hostler's helper to get
upon an engine and to look out of the cab window for the
reasons we have stated, and for one helper to lend aid to
another. We do not think that the testimony shows that
Harvey was not in the line of his duties when he got upon
the engine or was a mere volunteer in going to help
George in his work under the circumstances.
We find no error in the record requiring the reversal of
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and it is
therefore
Affirmed.

