HOUGHTON v. BURDEN.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

HOUGHTON, RECEIVER, v. BURDEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 591.

Argued January 7, 1913.-Decided April, 7, 1913.

Where a secured creditor voluntarily comes into the Bankruptcy
Court and asserts a claim to property in the trustees' possession,
the proceeding is one in equity and the decree is reviewable by the
Circuit Court of Appeals both as to law and fact; § 566, Rev. Stat.,
is inapplicable and the whole case is open under § 128, Judicial Code,
and an appeal lies to this ourt under § 241, Judicial Code.
A contract for loaning money secured by accounts payable to the borrower, who is to act as agent for the lender in their collection, providing.that the lender shall, in pursuance of a pro-ision in a bond of
indemnity given by-third parties, examine the accounts and books of
the borrower monthly and receive a compensation therefor equivalent to a specified per cent of the accounts remaining due, held in
this case to have been made in good faith and not for the purpose
of avoiding the usury laws, and not to be a usurious and void contract under the laws of the State of New York.
On an inquiry whether the contract is one forbidden by law, evidence
dehors the agreement is admissible to show that, though legal on its
face, the agreement is in fact illegal.
Usury may be interposed as a defense even though it contradicts the
agreement.
Where the law of the state makes usury-a crime, the burden is strongly
on him who would avoid a debt on that ground and where, as in this
case, the borrower is supported by one witness who is in his employ
and the lender is supported by one disinterested witness, the burden
is not sustained.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of Appeals to review facts in certain cases coming
from the Bankruptcy Court and the construction of usury
laws of New York, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jacob B. Engel, with whom Mr. Jacob Jno. Lazaroe
was on the brief, for appellant:

VOL. CCxxvIII-I 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

228 U. S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals having found that the
court below had not committed any errors of law, should
have affirmed the final order of the District Court. Section 566, Rev. Stat.; Campbell v. United States, 224 U. S.
99; Rogers v. United States, 141 U. S. 548; Campbell v.
Boyreau, 21 How. 223.
Manifestly, if Burden had commenced an action on the
facts recited in his petition, as he had a right to do, his
only remedy would be an action at law for trover or conversion. Under no. circumstances appearing in this record
did his cause of action lie in equity; had the appellee attempted to frame his complaint in equity, he would have
been defeated under the laws of the State of New York
by the plea that he had an adequate remedy at law. Bradley v. Aldrich, 40 N. Y. 510.
A matter of the kind at bar is not a proceeding in bankruptcy, hence the exception made by § 566, Rev. Stat.,
does not apply.
Courts of Bankruptcy are given jurisdiction to try
matters in controversy. Section 19, subd. c, clearly relates to the provisions of the Revised Statutes regulating
trials by a jury. In re Baudoine, 101 Fed. Rep. 574;. In
re Russell, 101 Fed. Rep. 248.
The special master having found certain facts which
were confirmed by the United States District Court, the
Circuit Court of Appeals should not have reversed the
judgment and order entered thereon unless the findings
of fact were clearly erroneous or clearly against the weight
of evidence. Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631; Kimberly
v. Arns, 129 U. S. 512; Ohio Valley Bank v. Mack, 163
Fed. Rep. 155.
The preponderance of evidence was in favor of sustaining the findings of the master. Quackenbos v. Sayers, 62
N. Y. 345.
That the real motive moving the parties was the
giving and taking of an usurious rate of interest and not

HOUGHTON v. BURDEN.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

of an employment is abundantly evidenced by the testimony.
No errors of law having been committed in the trial
court its order and mandate should be confirmed.
Parol testimony can be introduced for the purpose of
showing the real transaction between the parties and
showing that the agreement, as drawn, was a mere subterfuge and made with the purpose and intent of evading
the usury laws. Mercantile Trust Co. v. Ginbernat, 134
App. Div. 410; Willmarth v. Hine, 137 App. Div. 528;
see also Knickerbocker Life Ins. Co. v. Nelson, 7 Abb. N. C.
(N. Y.) 180, citing DeWolf v. Johnston, 10 Wh. 385; Vilas
v. McBride, 62 Hun (N. Y.), 324.
This is the law throughout the country. Massa v.
Dauling, 2 Str. 1243; Scott v. Lloyd, 9 Pet. (U. S.) 418;
Tucker v. Wilamonicz, 8 Arkansas; 157; Train v. Collins,
2 Pick. (Mass.) 145; Denyse v. Crawford, 18 N. J. L. 325;
Grayson v. Brooks, 64 Mississippi, 410.
The fact that the contract is in writing does not exclude
oral evidence to show that though apparently innocent it
was usurious. Kohler v. Dodge, 31 Nebraska, 238; Rowan
v. Hanson, 11 Cush. 44; Roe v. Kiser, 62 Arkansas, 92;
McAleese v.-Goodwin, 69 Fed. Rep. 759.
In all instances of this character, as well as in the case
at bar, the instrument is. innocent and valid on its face
and it is only by resort to extrinsic facts and circumstances
that it is invested with the element of illegality.
.A. contract may not necessarily be usurious on its face;
the burden is on the one contesting it upon the ground
of usury to prove the.guilty intention and that the contract was a cover for usury. and for the loan of money
upon usurious interest. Rosenstein v. Fox, 150 N. Y.
304.
On these questions oral, extrinsic and circumstantial
evidence is freely received. Thomas v. Murray, 32 N. Y.
605; Valentine v. Conver, 40 N. Y. 248.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Mr. John J. Crawford for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree determining a controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding. The origin of
the matter was this: Canfield, the bankrupt, was a merchant in New York. He borrowed from Burden the sum
of $10,000, and as security assigned to him certain book
accounts, aggregating the sum of $14,000, and agreed
to act as agent for Burden in their collection. Shortly
afterwards he was adjudicated a bankrupt. The receiver
obtained possession of the bankrupt's books and held
on to the assigned accounts and proceeded to collect them
upon the claim that the contract was usurious and void
under the law of New York.
In this situation Burden intervened in the bankruptcy
case and filed a petition, in which he asserted his title to
the assigned accounts and to any proceeds collected by the
receiver. The District Court, upon a final hearing, upheld
the contention of the bankrupt's receiver, now the trustee,
and dismissed the intervening petition. This decree was
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, that court holding that the defense of usury had not been satisfactorily
made out.
The appellant contends that the controversy having
been heard by the district judge without a jury, the Circuit Court of Appeals had no authority to review the facts.
For this, § 566, Revised Statutes, is cited, and also the
case of Campbell v. United States, 224 V. S. 99, which
construes that section. But that provision only requires
that the trial of issues of fact in the District Court,' except
in cases in equity and admiralty, and except as otherwise
provided in proceedings in bankruptcy, shall be by jury.
But the District Court, is, by § 2 of the Bankruptcy
Act of 1898, July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 544, c. 541, when sit-

HOUGHTON v. BURDEN.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ting as a bankruptcy court, given jurisdiction in law and
equity for the purpose of collecting and distributing the
estate of a bankrupt, and for the purpose of determining
controversies relating thereto, except as otherwise provided. The exception has no application here, as Burden
voluntarily came into the bankruptcy proceeding and
submitted his claim to the adjudication of the bankruptcy
court. Such an intervention for the purpose of asserting
a title or claim to property in the possession of the bankrupt's trustee is an intervention in equity and a decree
is reviewable by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
in the exercise of its general appellate powers in equity
cases under § 24-a of the Bankruptcy Act. Loveland on
Bankruptcy, 4th ed., §§ 826 to 829; Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296, 300; Knapp v. Milwaukee
Trust Company, 216 U. S. 545. Upon such an appeal
the law and the facts are open for reconsideration, and
from the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, it not
being- final (§ 128, new Judicial Code), an appeal may be
taken under § 241 of the same code.
Being an appeal from a decree in a controversy arising
in a bankruptcy proceeding, and therefore, an appeal unaer § 24-a, and not under § 25-b, General Order XXXVI
made under the latter section and requiring a finding of
facts, has no application, and the appeal opens up the
whole case as in other equity cases. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, supra; Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223, and
Knapp v.-Milwaukee Trust Co., supra.
Coming now to the merits. The single question is one
of usury in the contract. The lawful rate of interest in
New York is 6 per cent. By § 373 of the General Business
Law of New York it is provided:
"All . . . contracts whatsoever . . . whereupon or whereby there shall be reserved or taken or secured, or agreed to be reserved or taken any greater sum
or greater value for the loan or forbearance of any money,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

goods or other things in action, than as above prescribed,
shall be void."
Canfield was a reputable merchant engaged in business(
in New York. Burden was a retired merchant and an
experienced accouintant, who wished to secure light employment. To secure such employment he advertised
that he would lend from $10,000, to $20,000, at 6 per cent.
to a merchant whose rating was good, if the loan would
secure such employment. Through a broker, compensated by Canfield, negotiations were opened with Burden,
who proposed the loan provided he could get light employment in Canfield's office as a financial man. But the
financial statement of Canfield exhibited to Burden was
nearly a year old, and this did not satisfy Burden, and
the negotiations fell through partly for that reason, and
partly because the parties could not agree upon the position Burden desired. Some weeks later the negotiations
were resumed, the broker saying that he might get additional security through an indemnity bond, by which
the validity of the book accounts which were agreed to be
assigned might be guaranteed as well as the payment of
collections made by Canfield as agent. Canfield agreed
to furnish such a bond. The proposed bond required the
obligee to watch the shipping receipts and to make monthly
minute examinations of Canfield's books, showing the
several assigned accounts. Finding this requirement to
be a condition of such a bond, Burden demanded that he
should be compensated for the service he would be required to render to keep the bond in force, and a compensation of one per cent. per month upon the amount of the
uncollected accounts at the end of each month was agreed
upon. Thereupon the contract in question was executed,
a bond of indemnity was given to Burden and something
like 100 accounts -aggregating about $14;000 were duly
assigned, upon which an advance of $10,000 was made.
The contract is elaborate and too lengthy to be set out

HOUGHTON v. BURDEN.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in full. In substance it provided for a loan of $10,000
at 6 per cent. upon assigned accounts against reputable
merchants, the loan not to exceed 75 per cent. of the face
value of the accounts. Canfield agreed to act as Burden's
agent in collecting and to guarantee the payment of each
account so assigned. The contract also provided that
after the payment of the money borrowed and interest,
and costs and expense of collection and the compensation
to Burden for his services as required by the bond, the
remaining accounts should be re-assigned to Canfield.
The clause in regard to this compensation gives rise
to the claim of usury. It was in these words:
"The party of the second part shall be entitled to compensation for the labor and services to be performed,
and time to be expended, by him in making the examinations required by the terms of the bond executed by the
Fidelity and Casualty Company of New York, and delivered simultaneously herewith, which compensation is
to be measured by computing one per cent. per month
upon whatever part of the advance shall remain uncollected on the said accounts, and for the period that the
same shall remain so uncollected."
The indemnity bond styled an "Assigned-Accounts
bond" is in the usual form and is undoubtedly a device
resorted to, to enable merchants to use book accounts
as collateral for money advanced or loaned. The principal
condition was in these words:
"The Obligee shall require the Principal to state in
writing at the time of assigning each account, the date
when the payment of such account is due, and if the payment of any account is not made within twenty days of
the date that such payment is due, the Obligee shall
immediately thereupon make demand by registered mail
upon the debtor for the amount due. The Obligee shall
require the Principal to file with the Obligee in connection
with each account a certificate signed by a responsible

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

official or employ6 of the Principal stating that the account referred to in the certificate represents a bona-fide
sale, and that the merchandise concerned with the account
has, prior to signing of thecertificate, been shipped to the
customer named in the account. The Obligee, at least
monthly, shall make an examination of the accounts of
the Principal which shall embrace-(1) a complete examination of the books, accounts, and vouchers of the
Principal as respects the accounts covered under the said
agreement; (2) a strict comparison between all unpaid
accounts as such accounts appear on the records of the
Obligee and as such accounts appear in the books of
original entry of the Principal."
That this contract upon its face is absolutely legal there
can be no serious doubt. A material part of the security
which Canfield proposed to give was the bond by which
the collection of 75 per cent. of the face value of the assigned accounts was guaranteed, to the extent of $7,500,
as well as that Canfield would promptly pay over any
money and checks collected by him as agent for Burden.
But a condition of this security was that the obligee
should keep a watchful guard over the accounts assigned
and make monthly inspection of the books of Canfield.
That this would necessitate several days work each month,
if actually done with fidelity, is clearly shown. That little
service was rendered under this provision aside from the
examination of the accounts and shipping receipts as they
were assigned at different times, was due to the bankruptcy ensuing within a very short time and the seizure
of the bankrupt's books by his receiver.
The contention is that this provision for compensating
Burden for the service required by the indemnity bond
was a mere cover for unlawful interest, and that it was
never intended or expected that any such service would
be given. This is sought to be shown by alleged oral
declarations of Canfield. Thus, Canfield says that when

HOUGHTON v. BURDEN.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

he was about to sign the contract he asked Burden what
the clause about services to be rendered meant, and that
he replied, "that that was simply to get around the usury
law; there were no services to be rendered at all." Canfield's bookkeeper, a Miss Herzog, after saying that in the
negotiations prior to the day the agreement was signed
that she had heard Burden say that he must have a bonus
of one or two per cent. a month as usury, testified as t0what she overheard through an open window between
her office and that occupied by Canfield at the time the
bond was signed, as follows:
"Q. Isn't it a fact that My. Canfield asked Mr. Burden
what was meant in this agreement concerning services'
and charges for services to be rendered by Mr. Burden?
"Mr. Crawford. Objected to as leading.
"The Referee. Sustained.
"Q. What did you hear Mr. Canfield say concerning
this agreement shown yQu. A. I din't remember.
"Q. Well, did Mr. Canfield say anything about services
or did Mr. Burden say anything about services to be
rendered? A. Well, Mr. Burden said he would like to
have about an hour's work to do in our establishment
every day, and then Mr. Canfield told him we would not
have any use for him there."
Burden when recalled testified to his good faith, and
that the compensation agreed upon was to be for the service required by the contract and bond and would be
worth what he was to receive. He denied in most emphatic terms that he evei demanded a bonus or used the
word usury in any of the negotiations, or that he had ever
made any such statement or declaration as testified to by
Canfield.- He was supported in his denial by Koehler,
the broker who negotiated the loan for Canfield. All of
this evidence was excepted to as contradicting the written
agreement and was admitted over objection. Where the
inquiry is whether the contract is one forbidden by law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

it is open to evidence dehors the agreement to show that
though legal upon its face it was in fact an illegal agreement. Otherwise the very purpose of the law in forbidding
the taking of usury under any cover or pretext would be
defeated. The defense is one which the debtor may make
even though it contradicts the agreement. Scott v. Lloyd,
9 Pet. 418.
It has been suggested that there is a distinction between
the admissibility of evidence dehors the contract which
is intended to show the whole and true nature of the transaction and mere declarations made by the lender in the
nature of a confession that the agreement for services
required to maintain the obligation of the indemnity bond
was a mere scheme to cover usury, and that no service
was to be rendered. We notice the distinction and pass
it by, for the reason that assuming the evidence to be
competent, it is not so convincing as to justify a disagreement with the view of the "Circuit Court of Appeals that
the defence of usury has not been satisfactorily made
out.
The instrument upon its face is not usurious. Of course,
if the service to be rendered should be made to appear
trivial and of no real importance, the inference might be
drawn that the agreement in that particular was a sham
and device to cover a mere usurious contract, such as we
are asked to believe Burden declared it to be. Burden's
plan was that the loan should carry with it light work,
such as a retired business man might do,-one or two hours
of office work each day, as he explained. But he also
requested security for his money. Open book accounts
might answer if the borrower had a satisfactory business
rating. The latter means everything to business men.
Canfield's rating was not late enough to satisfy Burden
and the negotiations fell through, and were not resumed
for a month or more. Then Koehler, who had before
negotiated loans for Canfield, suggested that'he should also

HOUGHTON v. BURDEN.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

give Burden the indemnity bond. Burden examined the
form of such bond, and finding that one of its conditions
was his own watchfulness over collections and minute
inspections of Canfield's books, he proposed to make the
loan upon the assigned accounts and the indemnity bond,
provided he was compensated for the service the bond
required from him. The amount agreed upon, Burden
claims, was no more than a fair return for what Judge
Hand, who in the District Court sustained the defense,
describes as "work which was undeniably substantial and
vexatious."
To hold the agreement void would seem to require that
we shall accept as true that there was no such service
expected or required, and that the clause was inserted to
cover a usurious bonus. But as the indemnity bond was
conditioned upon Burden doing the very things which he
is said to have declared were not to be done, of what value
would that security become? The natural presumption is
that Burden was endeavoring to put his contract in such
shape that Canfield could not defeat his obligation by the
defense of usury. Yet we are asked to believe that he
deliberately declared to the debtor that the agreement as
to services was a device to defeat the law, and that he was
not to render any such service. The incredibility of such a
declaration by Burden to Canfield the debtor seems obvious. Upon this point Judge Coxe, for the Circuit
Court of Appeals, said:
"Of course bankruptcy was not contemplated at that
time, at least by Burden. If Canfield did not enforce the
usury law Burden had nothing to fear. If the agreement
did not bind Canfield, it did not bind anyone and yet
Burden, if this testimony be true, made it absolutely
useless to accomplish the object for which he says it was
signed.
"Why should Burden make an agreement to enable him
to receive usurious interest and at the same time malw it

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

impossible for him to take such interest without placing
him absolutely at the mercy of Canfield?
"There is no pretense that Burden was non compos
mentis at the time, and yet it is difficult to believe that
any rational being would have gone to the trouble and
expense of having this elaborate agreement prepared for
the purpose of avoiding the usury law and at the same
time admit to the only man who could interpose the
defense of usury that it was a void agreement. So far as
the validity of the agreement is concerned, Burden might
as well have stamped in red ink on its face the words, 'void
for usury.'
"We must assume that Burden is a man of ordinary
common-sense, but in order to find that he made the
statement quoted, we must convict him of stupidity which
is unique in its originality. It is difficult to imagine that a
rational being would procure a safe to protect him from
burglary and immediately send the 'combination' to the
burglar whom he had most reason to dread."
Canfield is supported by his bookkeeper, though her
account of the matter is materially different from his.
Burden is supported by Koehler, the broker, Who was in
the negotiations throughout, and so far as appears, absolutely disinterested. There are two 'witnesses against
two, and the burden to make out the usury is strongly
upon the appellant. Stillman' v. Northrup, 109 N. Y.
473, 478; White v. Benjamin, 138. N. Y'. 23, 624. In the
case last cited, it was said"Usury is a crime and he who alleges it as a defense to
an obligation must establish it by clear and satisfactory
evidence."
This the appellant-has not done.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

