OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

928 U. S.

tain cases, he had been accused..in others, charged with
fraud in the entries here involVed, found to have practiced
it. This being the situation, the agency conferred upon
the District Attorney comprehended such adjustments as
would free the lands from the incumbrances of appellant's
acts. The District Attorney had not the power, as appellant contends, as an individual in like situation. We are
not therefore called upon to consider what rights the laws
of Louisiana gave to appellant or whether they could give
any, nor whether, if the United States is not bound by the
condition in the relinquishments, the latter are void. It is
only necessary to decide that appellant has not established
a contract against the United States.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the decision.

MADERA WATER WORKS v. MADERA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 229.

Argued April 17, 18, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

If the constitution of the State authorizes municipalities to construct
utility plants as well after, as before, such plants have been built
by private parties, one constructing such a plant takes the risk of
what may happen, and cannot invoke the Fourteenth Amendment
to protect him against loss by the erection of a municipal plant.

There is nothing in the constitution of California that can be construed
as a contract,. express or implied, that municipalities will not construct water works that will compete with privately owned works
built under the provisiofis of the constitution giving the right, subm

MADERA WATER. WORKS v. MADERA.
228 U. S.

455

Opinion of the Court.

ject to municipal regulation of charges, to lay mains in the streets
of municipalities where there are no public works.
185 Fed. Rep. 281, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank H. Short, with whom Mr. F. E. Cook and
Mr. E. J. McCutchen were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Raleigh E. Rhodes, with whom Mr. Marshall B.
Woodworth was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity to restrain the City of Madera
from proceeding with the construction of a water plant
in competition with one that the plaintiff and its predecessors have built under the constitution of the State.
The. Circuit Court sustained a demurrer and dismissed
the bill. 185 Fed. Rep. 281. The ground of the suit is
that the state constitution provides that in any city where
there are no public works owned by the municipality for
supplying the same with water, any individual or corporation of the State shall have 'the privilege of using the
public streets and laying down pipes, &c., for the purpose,
subject to the right of the municipal government to regulate the charges, Art. 11, § 19. It is argued that this provision, coupled with the duty imposed on the governing
body to fix water rates annually, and the corresponding
duty of the water company to comply with the regulations,
both under severe penalties (Art. 14, §§ 1, 2, act of
March 7, 1881, §§ 1, 7, 8, Stats. 1881, p. 54, c. 52), imports a contract that the private person or corporation
constructing works as invited shall not be subject to competition from the public source. Otherwise, it is pointed
out, the same body will be called upon to regulate the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

plaintiff's charges and to endeavor to make a success of
the city works. Furthermore the plaintiff is forbidden by
other provisions to divert its property to other uses and,
again, will be called on to pay taxes to help its rival to
succeed. Thus it is said, the city proposes to destroy
the plaintiff's property, contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
But if, when, the plaintiff built, the constitution of the
State authorized cities to build water works as well after
works had been built there by private persons as before,
the plaintiff took the risk of what might happen. An appeal to the Fourteenth Amendment to protect property
from a congenital defect must be vain. Abilene National
Bank v. Dolley, 228 U. S. 1, 5. It is impossible not to feel
the force of the plaintiff's argument as a reason for interpreting the Constitution so as to avoid the result, if it
might be, but it comes too late. There is no pretence that
there is any express promise to private adventurers that
they shall not encounter subsequent municipal competition. We do not find any language that even encourages
that .hope, and the principles established in this class of
cases forbid us to resort to the fiction that a promise is
implied.
The constitutional possibility of such a ruinous competition is recognized in the cases, and is held not sufficient
to justify the implication of a contract. Hamilton Gaslight
& Coke Co. v. Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258. Joplinv. Southwest
Missouri Light Co., 191 U. S. 150, 156. Helena Water
Works Co. v. Helena, 195 U. S. 383, 388, 392. So strictly
are private persons confined to the letter of their express
grant that a contract by a city not to grant to any person
or corporation the same privileges that it had given to the
plaintiff was held not to preclude the city itself from building water works of its own. Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville, 200 U. S. 22, 35. Compare Vicksburg v. Vicksburg
Water Works Co., 202 U. S. 453, 470. As there is no con-

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
.228 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

tract the plaintiff stands legally in the same position as if
the constitution had given express warning of what the
city might do. It is left to depend upon the sense of
justice that the city may show.
Decree affirmed.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE. EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 715.

Argued April 11, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

Courts proceed step by step. Matter of Harris,221 U. $. 274, established simply that the transfer of books of the bankruptto the trustee
could be required, and left undetermined the question of use to which
the books could be put.
A party is privileged from producing his books in a prosecution against
himself but is not privileged from their production.
A criminal cannot protect himself by getting the legal title to corporate
books. Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S. 478.
The production of a documentary confession by a third person,.into
whose hands it has come alio intuitu, does not compel the witness to
be a witness against himself in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
On appeal from a conviction, where there is evidence tending to support
the finding and no certificate that all the evidence is in the record
this court is not warranted in declaring, as matter of law, that the
Government did not make out a case.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward J. Fox, with whom Mr. Robert A. Stotz and
Mr. James W. Fox-were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Bullitt was on the brief, for the United
States.

