OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case.

309 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Florida was in error and its
judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION, REGION
NO. 4, v. BURR, DOING BUSINESS AS SECRETARIAL SERVICE BUREAU.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 354.

Argued January 31, February 1, 1940.-Decided
February 12, 1940.

1. Under the National Housing Act, as amended, which provides that
the Administrator shall, in carrying out the provisions of certain
of its titles, "be authorized, in his official capacity, to sue and be
sued in any court of competent jurisdiction, State or Federal," the
Federal Housing Administration is subject to be garnished, under
state law, for moneys due to an employee; but only those funds
which have been paid over to the Administration in accordance
with § 1 of the Act and which are in its possession, severed from
Treasury funds and Treasury control, are subject to execution.
Pp. 249-250.
2. Waivers by Congress of governmental immunity from suit in the
case of such federal instrumentalities should be construed liberally.
P. 245.
3. The words "sue and be sued" in their normal connotation embrace
all civil process incident to the commencement or continuance of
legal proceedings. Garnishment and attachment commonly are
part and parcel of the process, provided by statute, for the collection of debts. P. 245.
289 Mich. 91; 286 N. W. 169, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S.541, to review the affirmance of
a judgment against the Federal Housing Administration
in a garnishment proceeding.

F. H. A. v. BURR.
242

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Sidney J. Kaplan, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Messrs.
Melvin H. Siegel, Paul A. Sweeney, Thomas Harris, and
Abner H. Ferguson were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Gus 0. Nations for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question presented here is whether the Federal
Housing Administration is subject to garnishment for
moneys due to an employee. The Supreme Court of the
State of Michigan held that it was. 289 Mich. 91; 286
N. W. 169. We granted certiorari in view of the importance of the problem and the confused state of the authorities on the right to garnishee recently created agencies
or corporations of the federal government.'
In 1930 respondent obtained final judgment in Michigan against one Heffner and one Brooks. In 1938 petitioner was served with a writ of garnishment issued by
the Michigan court.! Petitioner appeared and filed an
answer and disclosure stating that Brooks was no longer
connected with it due to his death subsequent to service
of the writ but admitting that it owed Brooks at the time
'Garnishment of wages due an employee of the United States
Shipping Board Merchant Fleet Corporation was disallowed in
McCarthy v. United States Shipping Board Merchant Fleet Corp.,
60 App. D. C. 311; 53 F. 2d 923. Contra: Haines v. Lone Star
Shipbuilding Co., 268 Pa. 92; 110 A. 788. As to the Home Owners'
Loan Corporation, a similar conflict of decisions has arisen. That it
is not subject to garnishment see Home Owners' Loan Corp. v. Hardie
& Caudle, 171 Tenn. 43; 100 S. W. 2d 238. And see Manufacturer's
Trust Co. v. Ross, 252 App. Div. 292; 299 N. Y. S. 398. That it is
subject to garnishment see Central Market, Inc. v. King, 132 Neb.
380; 272 N. W. 244; Gill v. Reese, 53 Oh. App. 134; 4 N. E. 2d 273;
McAvoy v. Weber, 198 Wash. 370; 88 P. 2d 448.
'Mich. Stat. Ann. (1938) § 27.1855 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

of his death $71.11. Its answer further asserted that it
was "an agency of the United States Government and is,
therefore, not subject to garnishee proceedings." On motion of respondent judgment was entered against petitioner for the amount of its indebtedness to Brooks and
execution was allowed thereunder. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of Michigan that judgment was
affirmed.
The problem here is unlike that in Buchanan v. Alexander,4 How. 20, where creditors of seamen of the frigate
Constitution were not allowed to attach their wages in
the hands of a disbursing officer of the federal government.
That ruling was derived from the principle that the
United States cannot be sued without its consent. There
no consent whatsoever to "sue and be sued" had been
given. Here the situation is different. Sec. 1 of Title I
of the National Housing Act (Act of June 27, 1934, c.
847; 48 Stat. 1246) authorized the President "to create
a Federal Housing Administration, all of the power of
which shall be exercised by a Federal Housing Administrator." That section was amended in 1935 (Act of August 23, 1935, c. 614; 49 Stat. 684, 722) by adding thereto
the provision that "The Administrator shall, in carrying
out the provisions of this title and titles II and III, be
authorized, in his official capacity, to sue and be sued in
any court of competent jurisdiction, State or Federal."
Since consent to "sue and be sued" has been given by
Congress, the problem here merely involves a determination of whether or not garnishment comes within the
scope of that authorization. No question as to the power
of Congress to waive the governmental immunity is
present. For there can be no doubt that Congress has
full power to endow the Federal Housing Administration
with the government's immunity from suit or to determine the extent to which it may be subjected to, the judicial process. Federal Land Bank v. Priddy, 295 U. S.

F. H. A. v. BURR.
242

Opinion of the Court.

229; Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp.,
306 U. S. 381.
As indicated in Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction
Finance Corp., supra,we start from the premise that such
waivers by Congress of governmental immunity in case
of such federal instrumentalities should be liberally construed. This policy is in line with the current disfavor of
the doctrine of governmental immunity from suit, as evidenced by the increasing tendency of Congress to waive
the immunity where federal governmental corporations
are concerned. Keifer & Keifer v. ReconstructionFinance
Corp., supra. Hence, when Congress establishes such an
agency, authorizes it to engage in commercial and business transactions with the public, and permits it to "sue
and be sued," it cannot be lightly assumed that restrictions on that authority are to be implied. Rather if the
general authority to "sue and be sued" is to be delimited
by implied exceptions, it must be clearly shown that certain types of suits are not consistent with the statutory
or constitutional scheme,8 that an implied restriction of
the general authority is necessary to avoid grave interference with the performance of a governmental function, or that for other reasons it was plainly the purpose
of Congress to use the "sue and be sued" clause in a narrow sense. In the absence of such showing, it must be
presumed that when Congress launched a governmental
agency into the commercial world and endowed it with
authority to "sue or be sued," that agency is not less
amenable to judicial process than a private enterprise
under like circumstances would be.
Clearly the words "sue and be sued" in their normal
connotation embrace all civil process incident to the
commencement or continuance of legal proceedings.
Garnishment and attachment commonly are part and
'Cf. Porto Rico v. Rosaly, 227 U. S. 270.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

parcel of the process, provided by statute, for the collection of debts.' In Michigan a writ of garnishment is a
civil process at law, in the nature of an equitable attachment. See Posselius v. First National Bank, 264 Mich.
687; 251 N. W. 429. But however it may be denominated, whether legal or equitable,5 and whenever it may

be available, whether prior to

0

or after final judgment,'

garnishment is a well-known remedy available to suitors.
To say that Congress did not intend to include such civil
process in the words "sue and be sued" would in general
deprive suits of some of their efficacy. Hence, in absence
of special circumstances, we assume that when Congress
authorized federal instrumentalities of the type here in-

volved to "sue and be sued" it used those words in their
usual and ordinary sense. 8 State decisions barring gar'See Shinn, Attachment & Garnishment, Chs. I, XXIII. As to
garnishment of wage claims, see Sturges & Cooper, Credit Administration and Wage Earner Bankruptcies, 42 Yale L. Journ. 487, 503
et seq.
'Cf. Williams v. T. R. Sweat & Co., 103 Fla. 461; 137 So. 698;
Campagna v. Automatic Electric Co., 293 Ill. App. 437; 12 N. E.
2d 695, with Commercial Investment Trust, Inc. v. William Frankfurth Hardware Co., 179 Wis. 21; 190 N. W. 1004; Diamond Cork
Co. v. Maine Jobbing Co., 116 Me. 67; 100 A. 7.
'Col. Code Civ. Proc., ch. 7, § 129; Deering's Calif. Code Civ.
Proc., § 543.
'N. Y. Civ. Prac. Act, § 684; Purdon's Penn. Stat. § 2994. In
Michigan no garnishment for money owing the principal defendant
on account of labor performed by him shall be commenced until
after judgment has been obtained against such principal defendant.
Mich. Stat. Ann., § 27.1855.
In Weston v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 464, Chief
Justice Marshall in defining the word "suit," as used in the 25th
section of the Judicial Act of 1789 giving this Court jurisdiction to
review on enumerated conditions a "final judgment or decree in any
suit in the highest court of law or equity of a state in which a decision
in the suit could be had" (43 Stat. 937), said:
"The term is certainly a very comprehensive one, and is understood to apply to any proceeding in a court of justice, by which an

F. H. A. v. BURR.
242

Opinion of the Court.

nishment against a public body though it may "sue and
be sued" ' are not persuasive here as they reflect purely
local policies concerning municipalities, counties and the
like, and involve considerations not germane to the problem of amenability to suit of the modern federal governmental corporation.
Our conclusion is strengthened by the legislative history of the many recently created governmental agencies
or corporations. It shows that in but few instances was
a proviso added to the "sue and be sued" clause prohibiting garnishment or attachment." The fact that in the
run of recent statutes no such exceptions were made and
that in only a few of them were any special prohibitions
included adds corroborative weight to our conclusion that
such civil process was intended.
Up to this point, however, petitioner does not raise its
major objections. Rather it grounds its claim to immunity from garnishment largely on statutory construction and on matters of policy. As to the former, it relies
heavily on the fact that the authority to "sue and be
sued" excludes cases unrelated to the Administrator's own
duties or liabilities since the statute provides that the
"Administrator shall, in carrying out the provisions of
this title [Title I] and titles II and III" be authorized to
individual pursues that remedy in a court of justice, which the law
affords him. The mcdes of proceeding may be various, but if a
right is litigated between parties in a court of justice, the proceeding
by which the decision of the court is sought, is a suit."
'Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Andalusia, 218 Ala. 511; 119 So.
236; Duvall County v. Charleston Lumber Co., 45 Fla. 256, 265;
33 So. 531; Chicago v. Hasley, 25 Ill. 595.
10As respects the forty government corporations listed in Keifer &
Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp., supra, pp. 390-391, where
Congress included the authority to "sue and be sued," express prohibition against attachment and garnishment was provided in only
two instances. They are the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (52
Stat. 72, 73) and the Farmers' Home Corporation (50 Stat. 527).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

"sue and be sued." Petitioner therefore contends that Congress has consented to a suit against the Administrator
only where the plaintiff is a party to a transaction with
him which in turn is related to "carrying out" the provisions of those titles. Title I contains the only provisions
material here. Sec. 1 gave the Administrator, inter alia,
authority to appoint such officers and employees "as he
may find necessary"; to "prescribe their authorities,
duties, responsibilities, and tenure and fix their compensation, without regard to the provisions of other laws applicable to the employment or compensation of officers or
employees of the United States"; and to "make such expenditures (including expenditures for personal services
and rent at the seat of government and elsewhere, for law
books and books of reference, and for paper, printing, and
binding) as are necessary to carry out the provisions of
this title and titles II and III, without regard to any other
provisions of law governing the expenditure of public
funds." Sec. 2 gave limited authority to the Administrator to insure financial institutions; § 3, authority to make
loans to such institutions. Since the Administrator could
be sued, in his official capacity, in "carrying out" the provisions of Title I, it would seem clear that such suits as
were based on employment contracts made pursuant to
the'authority granted by § 1 were permitted. Accordingly, it seems clear that Brooks, whose claim " was garnisheed by respondent, could have sued on that claim and
obtained the benefit of that civil process which was available in the appropriate state or federal proceeding. Federal Land Bank v. Priddy, supra. To allow respondent
to reach that claim through a writ of garnishment is
"While the record shows that Brooks had been "connected" with
the petitioner it does not show the nature of the debt due him. The
brief which petitioner filed below, however, recited that Brooks was
an employee; and no defense was interposed that the claim did not
arise under Title I of the Act.

F. H. A. v. BURR.
242

Opinion of the Court.

therefore not to enlarge petitioner's liability nor to add
one iota to the scope of § 1. For the end result is simply
to allow a suit for the collection of a claim on which Congress expressly made petitioner suable. The mere change
in the payee does not make the suit unrelated to the
duties and liabilities of the Administrator under § 1.
But petitioner strongly urges considerations of policy
against this conclusion and stresses the heavy burdens
which would be imposed on such governmental instrumentalities if garnishment were permitted. It asserts
that the task of preparing answers, disclosures and returns to numerous garnishment processes in the courts
of each of the states would appreciably impede the federal functions of such an agency. It points to various
state legislation regulating and restricting garnishment
against public bodies and concludes that if immunity of
public bodies from garnishment is to be abrogated, it
should be done by legislation so that the remedy could
be appropriately molded to fit the needs of government.
In our view, however, the bridge was crossed when
Congress abrogated the immunity by this "sue and be
sued" clause. And no such grave interference with the
federal function has been shown to lead us to imply that
Congress did not intend the full consequences of what it
said. Hence, considerations of convenience, cost and
efficiency 12 which have been urged here are for Congress
which, as we have said, has full authority to make such
restrictions on the "sue and be sued" clause ag seem to
it appropriate or necessary.
There is some point made of the fact that suit was
brought against the Federal Housing Administration
rather than against the Administrator. But when the
12Cf.

Fortas, Wage Assignments in Chicago, 42 Yale L. Journ. 526;

Nugent, Hamm, Jones, Wage Executions for Debt, Bull. No. 622,
Bureau of Lab. Statistics, U. S. Dept. of Labor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

statute authorizes suits by or against the Administrator
"in his official capacity" we conclude that that permits
actions by or against the Federal Housing Administration. The Administrator acts for and on behalf of the
Federal Housing Administration, since by express terms
of the Act all of the powers of the latter "shall be exercised" by him. Hence action by him in the name of the
Federal Housing Administration would be action in his
official capacity.
Petitioner claims that execution should not have been
allowed under the judgment. The Act permits the Administrator "to sue and be sued in any court of competent jurisdiction, State or Federal." Whether by Michigan law execution under such a judgment may be had is,
like the availability of garnishment, Federal Land Bank
v. Priddy, supra, a state question. And so far as the federal statute is concerned, execution is not barred, for it
would seem to be part of the civil process embraced
within the "sue and be sued" clause. That does not, of
course, mean that any funds or property of the United
States can be held responsible for this judgment. Claims
against a corporation are normally collectible only from
corporate assets. That is true here. Congress has specifically directed that all such claims against the Federal
Housing Administration of the type here involved "shall
be paid out of funds made available by this Act." § 1.
Hence those funds, and only those, are subject to execution. The result is that only those funds which have
been paid over to the Federal Housing Administration in
accordance with § 1 and which are in its possession, severed from Treasury funds and Treasury control, are subject to execution. Since no consent to reach government
funds has been given, execution thereon would run counter to Buchanan v. Alexander, supra. To conclude otherwise would be to allow proceedings against the United
States where it had not waived its immunity. This re-

SOUTH CHICAGO CO. v. BASSETT.
242

251

Syllabus.

striction on execution may as a practical matter deprive
it of utility, since funds of petitioner appear to be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States and payments and other obligations are made through the Chief
Disbursing Officer of the Treasury.1 3 But that is an inherent limitation, under this statutory scheme, on the
legal remedies which Congress has provided. And since
respondent obtains its right to sue from Congress, it necessarily must take it subject to such restrictions as have
been imposed. The fact that execution may prove futile
is one of the notorious incidents of litigation, as is the
fact that execution is not an indispensable adjunct of
the judicial process."
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
SOUTH CHICAGO COAL & DOCK CO. ET AL. V.
BASSETT, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 262.

FOR THE

Argued January 11, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.

1. In providing by the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act
for payment by employers of compensation for injuries or death
suffered by employees engaged in maritime employment on vessels
in navigable waters, Congress exerted its constitutional power to
modify the admiralty law. P. 256.
" Fifth Annual Report, Federal Housing Administration (1938),
p. 157.
' See Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 263;
Commonwealth Finance Corp. v. Landis, 261 F. 440, 443-444. Cf.
Pauchogue Land Corp. v. Long Island State Park Comm'n, 243 N. Y.
15; 152 N. E. 451; New South Wales v. Bardolph, 52 Commonwealth L. Rep. 455.

