OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

309 U. S.

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION v.
SANDERS BROTHERS RADIO STATION.
CERTIORARI

TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 499.

Argued February 9, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

1. A fundamental question as to the function and powers of the Federal Communications Commission was raised in this case and,
on the record, is open here. P. 473.
2. Resulting economic injury to a rival station is not, in and of
itself, and apart from considerations of public convenience, interest, or necessity, an element which the Federal Communications
Commission must weigh, and as to which it must make findings,
in passing on an application for a broadcasting license. P. 473.
3. A licensee of a broadcasting station, over whose objection-of
economic injury to his station-the Communications Commission
granted a permit for the erection of a rival station, is, under
§ 402 (b) (2) of the Act, a "person aggrieved or whose interests
are adversely affected" by the decision of the Commission, and
entitled to appeal therefrom. P. 476.
4. An order of the Communications Commission granting a permit
to erect a broadcasting station held supported by the findings.
P. 477.
5. The conclusion of the appellate court that the Communications
Commission had not used as evidence certain data and reports
in its files-which an intervening party had been denied an
opportunity to inspect-accepted here. P. 478.
70 App. D. C. 297; 106 F. 2d 321, reversed.

308 U. S.546, to review a judgment which
set aside an order of the Federal Communications Commission granting a permit to erect a broadcasting
station.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. William J. Dempsey, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle and Messrs. Richard H. Demuth, William C. Koplovitz, Robert M. Cooper, and Benedict P. Cottone were
on the brief, for petitioner.

COMMISSION v. SANDERS RADIO STATION. 471
470

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Louis G. Caldwell, with whom Messrs. Reed T.
Rollo, Donald C. Beelar, and Percy H. Russell, Jr. were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We took this case to resolve important issues of substance and procedure arising under the Communications
Act of 1934, as amended.1
January 20, 1936, the Telegraph Herald, a newspaper
published in Dubuque, Iowa, filed with the petitioner an
application for a construction permit to erect a broadcasting station in that city. May 14, 1936, the respondent,
who had for some years held a broadcasting license for,
and had operated, Station WKBB at East Dubuque,
Illinois, directly across the Mississippi River from Dubuque, Iowa, applied for a permit to move its transmitter
and studios to the last named city and instal its station
there. August 18, 1936, respondent asked leave to intervene in the Telegraph Herald proceeding, alleging in
its petition, inter alia, that there was an insufficiency of
advertising revenue to support an additional station in
Dubuque and insufficient talent to furnish programs for
an additional station; that adequate service was being
rendered to the community by Station WKBB and there
was no need for any additional radio outlet in Dubuque
and that the granting of the Telegraph Herald application
would not serve the public interest, convenience, and
necessity. Intervention was permitted and both applications were set for consolidated hearing.
The respondent and the Telegraph Herald offered evidence in support of their respective applications. The
respondent's proof showed that its station had operated
1 Act

of June 19, 1934, c. 652, 48 Stat. 1064; Act of June 5, 1936,

c. 511, 49 Stat. 1475; Act of May 20, 1937, c. 229, 50 Stat. 189, 47
U. S. C. 151, et seq.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

at a loss; that the area proposed to be served by the Telegraph Herald was substantially the same as that served
by the respondent and that, of the advertisers relied on
to support the Telegraph Herald station, more than half
had used the respondent's station for advertising.
An examiner reported that the application of the Telegraph Herald should be denied and that of the respondent granted. On exceptions of the Telegraph Herald,
and after oral argument, the broadcasting division of petitioner made an order granting both applications, reciting that "public interest, convenience, and necessity
would be served" by such action. The division promulgated a statement of the facts and of the grounds of
decision, reciting that both applicants were legally, technically, and financially qualified to undertake the proposed construction and operation; that there was need in
Dubuque and the surrounding territory for the services of
both stations, and that no question of electrical interference between the two stations was involved. A rehearing was denied and respondent appealed to the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia. That court
entertained the, appeal and held that one of the issues
which the Commission should have tried was that of
alleged economic injury to the respondent's station by the
establishment of an additional station and that the Commission had erred in failing to make findings on that
issue. It decided that, in the absence of such findings,
the Commission's action in granting the Telegraph Her2
ald permit must be set aside as arbitrary and capricious.
The petitioner's contentions are that under the Communications Act economic injury to a competitor is not
a ground for refusing a broadcasting license and that,
since this is so, the respondent was not a person aggrieved,
or whose interests were adversely affected, by the Com'Sanders Brothers Radio Station v. Federal Communications Commission, 70 App. D. C. 297; 106 F. 2d 321.

COMMISSION v. SANDERS RADIO STATION. 473
470

Opinion of the Court.

mission's action, within the meaning of § 402 (b) of the
Act which authorizes appeals from the Commission's
orders.
The respondent asserts that the petitioner in argument
below contented itself with the contention that the respondent had failed to produce evidence requiring a finding of probable economic injury to it. It is consequently
insisted that the petitioner is not in a position here to
defend its failure to make such findings on the ground
that it is not required by the Act to consider any such
issue. By its petition for rehearing in the court below,
the Commission made clear its position as now advanced.
The decision of the court below, and the challenge made
in petition for rehearing and here by the Commission,
raise a fundamental question as to the function and powers of the Commission and we think that, on the record,
it is open here.
First. We hold that resulting economic injury to a
rival station is not, in and of itself, and apart from considerations of public convenience, interest, or necessity,
an element the petitioner must weigh, and as to which
it must make findings, in passing on an application for
a broadcasting license.
Section 307 (a) of the Communications Act directs
that "the Commission, if public convenience, interest, or
necessity will be served thereby, subject to the limitations
of this Act, shall grant to any applicant therefor a station
license provided for by this Act." This mandate is given
meaning and contour by the other provisions of the
statute and the subject matter with which it deals.' The
Act contains no express command that in passing upon
an application the Commission must consider the effect
of competition with an existing station. Whether the
Commission should consider the subject must depend
'Radio Commission v. Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266, 285.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

upon the purpose of the Act and the specific provisions
intended to effectuate that purpose.
The genesis of the Communications Act and the necessity for the adoption of some such regulatory measure is
a matter of history. The number of available radio
frequencies is limited. The attempt by a broadcaster to
use a given frequency in disregard of its prior use by
others, thus creating confusion and interference, deprives
the public of the full benefit of radio audition. Unless
Congress had exercised its power over interstate commerce
to bring about allocation of available frequencies and to
regulate the employment of transmission equipment the
result would have been an impairment of the effective
use of these facilities by anyone. The fundamental
purpose of Congress in respect of broadcasting was the
allocation and regulation of the use of radio frequencies
by prohibiting such use except under license.
In contradistinction to communication by telephone
and telegraph, which the Communications Act recognizes
as a common carrier activity and regulates accordingly in
analogy to the regulation of rail and other carriers by the
Interstate Commerce Commission,4 the Act recognizes
that broadcasters are not common carriers and are not
to be dealt with as such.' Thus the Act recognizes that
the field of broadcasting is one of free competition. The
sections dealing with broadcasting demonstrate that
Congress has not, in its regulatory scheme, abandoned
the principle of free competition, as it has done in the
case of railroads, in respect of which regulation involves
the suppression of wasteful practices due to competition,
the regulation of rates and charges, and other measures
'See Title II, §§ 201-221, 47 U. S. C. §§ 201-221.
'See § 3 (h), 47 U. S. C. § 153 (h).
'Compare Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270
U. S. 266, 277; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258.

COMMISSION v. SANDERS RADIO STATION 475
470

Opinion of the Court.

which are unnecessary if free competition is to be
permitted.
An important element of public interst and convenience affecting the issue of a license is the ability of
the licensee to render the best practicable service to the
community reached by his broadcasts. That such ability
may be assured the Act contemplates inquiry by the
Commission, inter alia, into an applicant's financial
qualifications to operate the proposed station.7
But the Act does not essay to regulate the business of
the licensee. The Commission is given no supervisory
control of the programs, of business management or of
policy. In short, the broadcasting field is open to anyone, provided there be an available frequency over which
he can broadcast without interference to others, if he
shows his competency, the adequacy of his equipment,
and financial ability to make good use of the assigned
channel.
The policy of the Act is clear that no person is to have
anything in the nature of a property right as a result of
the granting of a license. Licenses are limited to a maximum of three years' duration, may be revoked, and need
not be renewed. Thus the channels presently occupied
remain free for a new assignment to another licensee in
the interest of the listening public.
Plainly it is not the purpose of the Act to protect a
licensee against competition but to protect the public.
Congress intended to leave competition in the business
of broadcasting where it found it, to permit a licensee
who was not interfering electrically with other broadcasters to survive or succumb according to his ability to
make his programs attractive to the public.
This is not to say that the question of competition between a proposed station and one operating under an
'See § 308 (b), 47 U. S. C. § 308 (b).

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

existing license is to be entirely disregarded by the Commission, and, indeed, the Commission's practice shows
that it does not disregard that question. It may have a
vital and important bearing upon the ability of the applicant adequately to serve his public; it may indicate that
both stations-the existing and the proposed-will go
under, with the result that a portion of the listening public will be left without adequate service; it may indicate
that, by a division of the field, both stations will be compelledto render inadequate service. These matters, however, are distinct from the consideration that, if a license
be granted, competition between the licensee and any
other existing station may cause economic loss to the
latter. If such economic loss were a .valid reason for
refusing a license this would mean that the Commission's
function is to grant a monopoly in the field of broadcasting, a result which the Act itself expressly negatives,8
which Congress would not have contemplated without
granting the Commission powers of control over the rates,
programs, and other activities of the business of broadcasting.
We conclude that economic injury to an existing station is not a separate and independent element to be
taken into consideration by the Commission in determining whether it shall grant or withhold a license.
Second. It does not follow that, because the licensee of
a station cannot resist the grant of a license to another,
on the ground that the resulting competition may work
economic injury to him, he has no standing to appeal from
an order of the Commission granting the application.
Section 402 (b) of the Act provides for an appeal to
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia (1) by
an applicant for a license or permit, or (2) "by any other
person aggrieved or whose interests are adversely affected
'See § 311, 47 U. S. C. § 311, relating to unfair competition and
monopoly.

COMMISSION v. SANDERS RADIO STATION. 477
470

Opinion of the Court.

by any decision of the Commission granting or refusing
any such application."
The petitioner insists that as economic injury to the
respondent was not a proper issue before the Commission
it is impossible that § 402 (b) was intended to give the
respondent standing to appeal, since absence of right implies absence of remedy. This view would deprive subsection (2) of any substantial effect.
Congress had some purpose in enacting § 402 (b) (2).
It may have been of opinion that one likely to be financially injured by the issue of a license would be the only
person having a sufficient interest to bring to the attention
of the appellate court errors of law in the action of the
Commission in granting the license. It is within the
power of Congress to confer such standing to prosecute
an appeal.'
We hold, therefore, that the respondent had the requisite standing to appeal and to raise, in the court below,
any relevant question of law in respect of the order of the
Commission.
Third. Examination of the findings and grounds of
decision set forth by the Commission discloses that the
findings were sufficient to comply with the requirements
of the Act in respect of the public interest, convenience,
or necessity involved in the issue of the permit. In any
event, if the findings were not as detailed upon this subject as might be desirable, the attack upon them is not
that the public interest is not sufficiently protected but
only that the financial interests of the respondent have
not been considered. We find no reason for abrogating
the Commission's order for lack of adequate findings.
Fourth. The respondent here renews a contention
made in the Court of Appeals to the effect that the Coin'Compare Interstate Commerce Commission v. Oregon-Washington
R. Co., 288 U. S. 14, 23-25.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case.

309 U. S.

mission used as evidence certain data and reports in its
files without permitting the respondent, as intervenor before the Commission, the opportunity of inspecting them.
The Commission disavows the use of such material as
evidence in the cause and the Court of Appeals has found
the disavowal veracious and sufficient. We are not disposed to disturb its conclusion.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the decision
of this case.

THOMPSON, TRUSTEE, v. MAGNOLIA

PETROLEUM CO.
CERTIORARI

No. 481.

TO THE

ET AL.

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Argued February 28, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

In a railroad reorganization proceeding under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act in the federal court for Missouri, rights in oil underlying the right of way of the railroad in Illinois were claimed by
the trustee and by others adversely. The trustee had possession of
the right-of-way lands under claim of fee simple ownership. Held:
1. The bankruptcy court had summary jurisdiction to adjudicate the question of title. P. 481.
2. The bankruptcy court did not abuse its discretion in ordering that the underlying oil be extracted and marketed, to prevent
irreparable loss to the estate by its being drained off through wells
on adjacent lands, and that the net proceeds thereof be impounded,
pending determination as to the rightful owner. P. 482.
3..Under the circumstances, the ownership of the fee to the
right-of-way lands should be determined by the state courts of
Illinois, and the bankruptcy court should order the trustee to
proceed accordingly. P. 483.
106 F. 2d 217, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 630, to review a decree which
reversed an order of the District Court and directed dis-

