190

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case.

309 U. S.

DEITRICK, RECEIVER, v. GREANEY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 246. Argued January 10, 1940.-Decided February 12, 1940.
1. A receiver of a national bank, representing creditors, may compe]
payment of a promissory note knowingly given to the bank by one
of its directors as a substitute for shares of its own stock illegally
purchased and retained by the bank, the note having been delivered upon the understanding that it was not to be paid and that
the bank was to retain its interest in the stock. P. 196.
The purpose of the National Bank Act in prohibiting the purchase by a bank of its own stock is to prevent impairment of
its capital resources and consequent injury to creditors in the event.
of insolvency. The provisions requiring periodic examinations and
reports are designed to insure prompt discovery of violations of
the Act and prompt remedial action by the Comptroller. These
purposes would be defeated and the command of the statute nullified
if a director or officer, or any other by his connivance, could place
in the bank's portfolio his obligation good on its face, as a substitute
for its stock illegally acquired, and if he remained free to set up
that the obligation was, in effect, fictitious, intended only to aid
in the accomplishment of the injury at which the statute is aimed.
2. It is immaterial that the bank's officers were participants in the
illegal transaction, and that the receiver has not shown that creditors were deceived or specifically injured as the result of the illegal
contract. Rankin v. City National Bank, 208 U. S. 541 and
Deitrick v. Standard Surety Co., 303 U. S. 471, distinguished.
P. 198.
3. Judicial determination of the legal consequences of acts condemned
by the National Bank Act involves decision of a federal question.
P. 200.
103 F. 2d 83, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 535, to review a judgment which
reversed in part a judgment recovered in a suit by the
Receiver to collect an assessment upon shares of an insolvent national bank, and to collect a promissory note
found among its assets.

DEITRICK v. GREANEY.
190

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George P. Barse, with whom Messrs. Brenton K.
Fisk, Andrew J. Aldridge, James Louis Robertson, and
David B. Hexter were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. David Stoneman, with whom Mr. Thomas H.
Mahoney was on the brief, for respondent.
The receiver may not recover from the maker of an
accommodation note given to the bank, at its request,
and taken by the bank for the purpose of concealing
its ownership of shares of its own stock previously acquired by it in violation of law. Rankin v. City National
Bank, 208 U. S. 541; Deitrick v. Standard Surety &
Casualty Co., 303 U. S. 471; Yates Center National Bank
v. Lauber, 240 F. 237; Cutler v. Fry, 240 F. 238; Yates
Center National Bank v. Schaede, 240 F. 240; Andresen
v. Kaercher, 38 F. 2d 462. Liability of the maker can not
be predicated merely on the fact that he was a director
of the bank.
Federal law governs the validity and enforcibility of
the note in suit. Auten v. U. S. National Bank, 174
U. S. 125; Jennings v. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
294 U. S. 216.
The decision below is also in accord with the Massachusetts decisions. Salem Trust Co. v. Deery, 289 Mass.
431; Great BarringtonSavings Bank v. Day, 288 Mass.
181; Quincy Trust Co. v. Woodbury, 13 N. E. 2d 377.
Distinguishing Prudential Trust Co. v. Moore, 245 Mass.
311, and InternationalTrust Co. v. Wattendorf, 256 Mass.
323.
MR. JUSTICE

STONE delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
The question to be decided is whether a receiver of a
national bank may compel payment of a promissory note
knowingly given to the bank by one of its directors as a
substitute, among its assets, for shares of its own stock

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

illegally purchased and retained by the bank but with
the understanding that it was to retain its interest in the
stock and that the note was not to be paid.
Petitioner, receiver appointed by the Comptroller of
the Currency for the Boston-Continental Bank, a national
banking association, brought suit against respondent, a
director of the bank, and others, in the District Court for
Massachusetts to collect an assessment upon shares of
stock in the insolvent bank and to recover on respondent's promissory note, found by the receiver among its
assets.
The trial court found that the Boston National Bank,
predecessor of the insolvent bank, had acquired by purchase, 190 shares of its outstanding capital stock in violation of R. S. § 5201, 12 U. S. C. § 83, which declares that
"no association shall . . . be the purchaser or holder of
any such shares"; 1 that respondent as a means of concealing the illegal acquisition of the stock and of enabling
the bank to retain its ownership of the stock, prevailed
upon his co-defendant Karnow to execute an accommodation note, payable to the bank, the proceeds of which
were deposited in another bank to the credit of respondent who then paid them to the Boston National Bank
for the 190 shares of stock which were then transferred
to the respondent on the books of the bank.
Following a renewal of the Karnow note respondent
transferred the shares to him on the books of the bank
'"No association shall make any loan or discount on the security of
the shares of its own capital stock, nor be the purchaser or holder of
any such shares, unless such security or purchase shall be necessary
to prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted in good faith; and
stock so purchased or acquired shall, within six months from the
time of its purchase, be sold or disposed of at public or private sale;
or, in default thereof, a receiver may be appointed to close up the
business of the association, according to section fifty-two hundred and
thirty-four [12 U. S. C. § 192]."

DEITRICK v. GREANEY.
190

Opinion of the Court.

and upon consolidation of the Boston with the Continental National Bank, to form the Boston-Continental National Bank of which petitioner later became receiver,
new shares of the consolidated bank were issued in exchange for the old. Part of them were sold and the
proceeds used in reduction of the Karnow note. Respondent then gave to the bank his own note for the
balance, in substitution for Karnow's note, and caused
the remaining shares to be transferred to the name of
Mahoney, also a defendant in the suit, without informing
him of the transfer.
The court found that the entire transaction was devised and carried out by respondent for the purpose of
concealing the bank's ownership of the stock by ostensibly
removing the shares of stock from its assets-and carrying
the successive notes in their stead as receivables on the
books of the bank with a secret agreement that the stock
should be held for the Boston and later for the BostonContinental Bank without liability on the part of the
maker of the note. The court found liability of respondent for the assessment upon the shares held by Mahoney
for his account, concluded that he was estopped to deny
liability on the note and decreed accordingly that respondent alone should pay the stock assessment and the
amount due on the note, 23 F. Supp. 758.
The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed so
much of the decree as allowed recovery on the note. 103
F. 2d 83. It confirmed the findings of the trial court.
But it held that the circumstances which they detailed
did not preclude the defense of want of consideration to
the demand of the receiver, more than to that of the bank
itself.
We granted certiorari, 308 U. S. 535, on petition of
the receiver because of the public importance of the
question in the administration of the National Bank Act
and of the conflict of the decision below with that of the
21523440-o-13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Federal Reserve Bank v. Crothers,289 F. 777, and that of the Fifth
Circuit in Bohning v. Caldwell, 10 F. 2d 298.
The National Bank Act constitutes "by itself a complete system for the establishment and government of
National Banks." Cook County National Bank v. United
States, 107 U. S. 445, 448. In addition to the sections of the
Act conferring on national banking- associations the authority to conduct a public banking business the Act
contains numerous provisions designed for the protection
of the bank's depositors and other creditors. It establishes minimum requirements for the amount of capital
with which a bank may begin business, R. S. § 5138, 12
U. S. C. § 51, and makes special provisions for securing
the payment into the bank of the authorized capital,
R. S. §§ 5140, 5141, 12 U. S. C. 88 53, 54. It prohibits the
purchase by a bank of its own shares of stock and their
retention when purchased, R. S. § 5201, 12 U. S. C. § 83.
Impairment of capital of an association through its withdrawal by payment of dividends or otherwise is prohibited, R. S. 8 5204, 12 U. S. C. § 56. Any bank whose
capital has become impaired is required under direction
of the Comptroller to make up the deficiency by assessment of its shareholders and in the event of its failure to
do so a receiver may be appointed to wind up its business,
R. S. § 5205, 12 U. S. C. § 55.
To insure performance of these duties and as a safeguard to creditors and the public, violation of the provisions of the Act by any director or officer of the bank
or by any person aiding or abetting him, is made a criminal offense, R. S. § 5209, 12 U. S. C. § 592, and in the
event of such a violation, the association may be required
to forfeit all its rights and privileges, R. S. § 5239, 12
U. S. C. § 93. Further, by R. S. § 5240, 12 U. S. C. H8 481,
484, the Comptroller of the Currency is required to ap-

DEITRICK v. GREANEY.
190

Opinion of the Court.

point examiners who shall examine the affairs of every
bank at least twice in each calendar year with power to
administer oaths and examine officers and agents of the
bank under oath and who "shall make a full and detailed
report" of the bank to him. By R. S. § 5211, 12 U. S. C.
§ 161, every association is required to make to the Comptroller of the Currency not less than three reports each
year exhibiting in detail and under appropriate heads the
resources and liabilities of the association, and the Comptroller is given power to call for special reports whenever,
in his judgment, the same are necessary in order to obtain
a full and complete knowledge of the condition of the
reporting bank.
The obvious purpose of prohibiting the purchase by a
bank of its own stock is to prevent the impairment of its
capital resources and the consequent injury to its creditors
in the event of insolvency. The provisions of the Act
requiring periodic examinations and reports and the
powers of the Comptroller are designed to insure prompt
discovery of violations of the Act and in that event
prompt remedial action by the Comptroller. These purposes would be defeated and the command of the statute
nullified if a director or officer or any other by his connivance could place in the bank's portfolio his obligation
good on its face, as a substitute for its stock illegally acquired, and if he remained free to set up that the obligation was, in effect, fictitious, intended only to aid in the
accomplishment of the injury at which the statute is
aimed.
Here, respondent, with full knowledge of the unlawful
purpose to conceal the presence of the stock among the
bank's assets, gave in exchange for it, first another's note
and then his own, knowing that it was to be availed of
as an apparently valid and lawful asset so as to forestall
the remedies available under the statute for the unlawful

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

purchase. The notes were thus carried as receivables
on the books of the bank for a period of more than two
years, respondent's own note or renewals of it being lodged
with the bank from May 4, 1931 until the bank closed
its doors in December, 1931.
If the matter were of importance we could not assume,
in the absence of proof, that the bank examiners did not
perform their statutory duty or that respondent's note
was not as it was intended to be the effective means of
concealing the impairment of the bank's capital structure
and preventing resort to the remedies for it which the
statute affords. But it is enough for present purposes
that the respondent, after placing his note among the
bank's receivables in substitution for the shares of stock,
as the means of avoiding the consequences of violation
of the statute, may not now take the benefit of the secret
and illegal agreement that his note except for purposes of
deceiving the bank examiners was to be regarded as a
nullity. If respondent were free to set up the unlawful
agreement as a defense and thus cast the loss from the
unlawful stock purchase on the creditors of the bank in
receivership, he would be enabled to defeat the purpose
of the statute by taking advantage of an agreement which
it condemns as unlawful. That, we think, the law does
not allow.
It is a principle of the widest application that equity
will not permit one to rely on his own wrongful act, as
against those affected by it but who have not participated
in it, to support his own asserted legal title or to defeat
a remedy which except for his misconduct would not be
available. See United States v. Dunn, 268 U. S. 121,
133; Independent Coal & Coke Co. v. United States, 274
U. S. 640, 648. Applied in cases like the present, the rule
that the illegal agreement may not be set up to defeat
the obligation of the note is sometimes denominated an

DEITRICK v. GREANEY.
190

Opinion of the Court.

equitable estoppel.2 Lyons v. Westwater, 181 F. 681;
193 F. 817; Federal Reserve Bank v. Crothers, 289 F.
777; Bohning v. Caldwell, 10 F. 2d 298; cert. den., 271 U.
S. 663; Utley v. Clarke, 16 F. Supp. 435; Iglehart v. Todd,
203 Ind. 427; 178 N. E. 685; Denny v. Fishter, 238 Ky.
127; 36 S. W. 2d 864; Prudential Trust Co. v. Moore, 245
Mass. 311; 139 N. E. 645; Longley v. Coons, 244 App.
Div. 391; 280 N. Y. S. 17; aff'd 268 N. Y. 712; 198 N. E.
571; Bay Parkway Nat. Bank v. Shalm, 270 N. Y. 172;
200 N. E. 685; see First NationalBank v. Smith, 132 Pa.
Super. 73; 200 A. 215.
In a strict and technical sense an estoppel arises" only
when a misrepresentation has prejudiced another who
has relied upon it. For that reason courts have sometimes held that one in the position of respondent is not
estopped to set up the agreement against the bank or
the receiver either because it did not appear that the bank
was deceived by the concealment and misrepresentation
or because injury to creditors was not shown to have resulted from them, cf. Peterson v. Tillinghast, 192 F. 287;
Cutler v. Fry, 240 F. 238; First State Bank v.
Morton, 146 Ky. 287, 293; 142 S. W. 694; Quincy
Trust Co. v. Woodbury, 1938 Mass. Adv. Sh. 475;
13 N. E. 2d 377; Agricultural Credit Corp. v.
Scandia American Bank, 184 Minn. 68; 237 N. W. 823.
In a number of cases it has been held that the indirect benefit of
the transaction to the obligor as a creditor or shareholder of the bank
is sufficient consideration to support recovery. See New v. Page, 144
Md. 606; 125 A. 403; Hurd v. Kelley, 78 N. Y. 588; State ex rel.
Lattanner v. Hills, 94 Ohio St. 171; 113 N. E. 1045; First National
Bank v. Boxley, 129 Okla. 159; 264 P. 184; Arthur v. Brown, 91 S. C.
316; 74 S. E. 652. But whether the liability is sustained on this
ground or that of estoppel it is apparent that the statutory policy of
protection to creditors underlies both. See Brannan, Negotiable
Instruments Law (6th ed.) 459.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

But stated more precisely, the doctrine with which we
are now concerned is not strictly that of estoppel as thus
defined. It is a principle which derives its force from the
circumstances that respondent's act, apart from its possible injurious consequences to creditors, is itself a violation of the statute; and that the statute, read in the light
of its purposes and policy, precludes resort to the very
acts which it condemns, as the means of thwarting those
purposes by visiting on the receiver and creditors whom
he represents the burden of the bank's unlawful purchase. Pauly v. O'Brien, 69 F. 460; Niblack v. Farley,
286 Ill. 536; 122 N. E. 160; Iglehart v. Todd, supra, 442;
178 N. E. 685; Cedar State Bank v. Olson, 116 Kan. 320,
323; 226 P. 995; Denny v. Fishter, supra; Parker v.
Parker, 287 Mich. 49; 282 N. W. 897; German-American
Finance Corp. v. Merchants' & Mfrs. State Bank, 177
Minn. 529; 225 N. W. 891; Vallely v. Devaney, 49 N. D.
1107;194 N. W. 903; Bay Parkway Nat. Bank v. Shalom,
supra; Mount Vernon Trust Co. v. Bergoff, 272 N. Y.
192, 196; 5 N. E. 2d 196; Putnam v. Chase, 106 Ore. 440;
212 P. 365. See Schmid v. Haines, 115 N. J. L. 271; 178
A. 801. Williston on Contracts (Rev. ed.) § 1632; Zollman, Banks and Banking, § 4783.
Since it is by virtue of the statute that respondent's
agreement is unlawful and that the benefit of it as a defense to the note is denied; and as the purpose of the
statute is to protect creditors of the bank from the hazard
of violations of the Act like the present, it is immaterial
that the bank's officers were participants in the illegal
transaction, Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorif, 291 U. S.
245; City of Marion v. Sneeden, 291 U. S. 262; Awotin v.
Atlas Exchange National Bank, 295 U. S. 209, or that
the receiver has not shown that the creditors have been
deceived or specifically injured as the result of the illegal
contract. Cf. Mount Vernon Trust Co. v. Bergoff, supra,
196. It is the evil tendency of the prohibited acts at

DEITRICK v. GREANEY.
190

Opinion of the Court.

which the statute is aimed, and its aid, in condemnation
of them, and in preventing the consequences which the
Act was designed to prevent, may be invoked by the receiver representing the creditors for whose benefit the
statute was enacted.
Rankin v. City National Bank, 208 U. S. 541 and
Deitrick v. Standard Surety Co., 303 U. S. 471, on which
respondent relies, do not call for any different conclusion.
Because of certain statements obiter in the opinion
in the Rankin case, it has been taken as controlling
in a number of cases resembling the present, by
the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,8 and in one
case in the Sixth Circuit.' In cases already cited, Courts
of Appeals in other circuits have reached a different conclusion. It was to resolve this conflict that we granted
certiorari. The Rankin case was tried below and decided
here upon the concession of counsel that the transaction
involved was not illegal, 208 U. S. 547. Here it is the
reach of the statute making respondent's acts illegal and
affording protection from them to the creditors which
governs our decision.
In the Deitrick case, suit was brought against a surety
company, on its surety bonds, by a bank's receiver not
alleged to represent any innocent creditors who were injured because of their reliance on the bond. The company's agent, as alleged and as found by the two courts
below, had, to the knowledge of the bank's president, executed and delivered the bonds to the bank without consideration and without the company's knowledge or
authority, all in collusion with the bank's officers in a
fraudulent conspiracy to deceive the bank examiner. The
' Yates Center National Bank v. Schaede, 240 F. 240, 241; Hookway v. First National Bank, 36 F. 2d 166; Andresen v. Kaercher, 38
F. 2d 462. Cf. Cutler v. Fry, 240 F. 238; Keyes v. First National
Bank of Aberdeen, 20 F. 2d 678.
'Peterson v. Tillinghast, 192 F. 287.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

company insisted that as it was the innocent victim of
its agent's unauthorized acts in carrying out the conspiracy it could not be charged with responsibility for
them on the theory of estoppel or of its own participation
in the illegal transaction. Because of this state of the
pleadings and of the record, the court found itself unable
to hold that the National Bank Act imposed liability on
the surety company. The decision of this Court was
rested specifically, as was that of the Circuit Court of
Appeals below, on the ground that the pleadings had
limited the receiver's demand to the right of the bank to
recover upon the bond procured by the fraud of its
officers. This was shown, the Court declared, by the
failure of the pleadings to allege any wrongful act for
which the company was chargeable or which was injurious
to creditors. It said, page 480, that the receiver "makes
no suggestion of a purpose attributable to the company
to mislead creditors or others, makes no allegations of
damage except that sustained by the bank. He sets up
no facts which could render unconscionable a denial of
liability upon the bond because of the agent's fraud
obviously induced by the president of the bank." We
did not decide that in an action against one who, like respondent, is alleged and proved to be a participant in
the illegal transaction, he can be heard to set up the defense of his illegal action to defeat the statutory policy
aimed at the protection of creditors.
A point much discussed in brief and argument, upon
the assumption that local law will guide our decision,
see Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, is whether, by
Massachusetts law respondent is precluded from setting
up the illegality of the transaction as a defense to his
note. But it is the federal statute which condemns as
unlawful respondent's acts. The extent and nature of the
legal consequences of this condemnation, though left by

DEITRICK v. GREANEY.
190

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

the statute to judicial determination, are nevertheless to
be derived from it and the federal policy which it has
adopted, see, Board of County Commissioners of Jackson
County v. United States, 308 U. S. 343, and cases cited.
We have recently held that the judicial determination of
the legal consequences which flow from acts condemned
as unlawful by the National Bank Act involves decision
of a federal, not a state question. Awotin v. Atlas Exchange National Bank, supra.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took

no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting:

I think the judgment should be affirmed on the authority of Deitrick v. Standard Surety & Casualty Co., 303
U. S. 471, decided March 28, 1938. That case followed
and reaffirmed the principle announced in Rankin v. City
National Bank, 208 U. S. 541, that where the receiver of
a national bank sues to recover on a chose in action which
was an asset of the bank, his rights rise no higher than
those of the bank, even though the obligation was given
to deceive creditors or the bank examiner. The doctrine
of the Rankin case has been applied in suits by receivers
of national banks for more than thirty years.'
Deitrick v. StandardSurety & Casualty Company is on
all fours with the present case. There the very argu'Peterson v. Tillinghast, 192 F. 287, 289; Skud v. Tillinghast, 195
F. 1, 5; Cutler v. Fry, 240 F. 238; Yates Center National Bank v.
Schaede, 240 F. 240; Keyes v. First National Bank, 20 F. 2d 678, 686;
Hookway v. First National Bank, 36 F. 2d 166, 170; Kaercher v.
Citizens' National Bank, 57 F. 2d 58; Varden v. First Christian
Church, 13 F. Supp. 159, 161; Drake v. Moore, 14 F. Supp. 89, 90;

Seaborn v. Reno National Bank, 20 F. Supp. 835, 838; Federal
Deposit Ins. Corp. v. Pendleton, 29 F. Supp. 779, 781,

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

ments and authorities now relied upon and cited on
behalf of this petitioner were pressed without avail.
In the earlier case the same receiver brought actions
at law to recover on surety bonds as assets of the bank.
The facts were that the bank held worthless notes, known
to its president to be such. To give a false appearance
of worth to these assets he conspired with the agent of a
surety company to procure surety bonds guaranteeing
payment of the notes, to be used as "window dressing"
and to be shown to the bank examiners if they should ask
to see the collateral for the notes. The bank was afterwards examined and, as a result of the examiners' report,
additional capital was subscribed. We may assume they
saw the bonds. The bank remained open for a period
and deposits continued to be made. Later the Comptroller determined the bank was insolvent and a receiver
was appointed.
In his declaration in each action the receiver alleged his
appointment, recited the execution and delivery of the
surety bond to the bank and attached a copy of it. He
alleged that the note or notes in question in each case
was or were in default and that the surety was liable
according to the terms of its bond. The surety company
answered in each case setting up that no consideration
was paid for the giving of the bond and that it was
agreed and understood that no liability was to ensue
from the execution and delivery 2
The District Court entered judgment for the surety
company and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.'
That court, after stating that the knowledge of the president was the knowledge of the bank, held that the receiver
'The surety company also filed bills seeking cancellation of each of
the bonds and, in his answers, the receiver reiterated his averment
that the surety company owed him the amounts stipulated in the
bonds, and asked judgment for such amounts.
'90 F. 2d 862.

DEITRICK v. GREANEY.
190

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

was not an agent of the bank's creditors; that he stood
in no better position than the bank; that all defenses
open to the surety company as against the bank were
open as against the receiver; that the suit was merely one
to recover assets of the bank and that the declarations
stated no cause of action other than that arising from the
contract of suretyship. The court called attention to
the fact that the pleadings contained no allegation that
the receiver based his action on any alleged deception of,
or injury to, creditors of the bank and no allegation that
the receiver was suing on behalf of creditors, and held
that, upon the pleadings, it was not open to the receiver
to urge that he represented creditors. It refused to decide whether, on different pleadings, the receiver could
recover if he alleged and proved injury resulting to
creditors from the transaction.
This court affirmed the judgment on the grounds stated
by the court below, citing and relying on Rankin v.
City National Bank, supra.
The surety also pleaded that its agent had exceeded
his authority in issuing the bonds, as the bank's president
knew. The Circuit Court of Appeals did not pass upon
this defense, since it held the receiver could not recover
even if the surety company had authorized the giving of
the bonds. In the opinion of this court, the surety's
contention that it was not bound by its agent's unauthorized act was mentioned but was not considered or discussed as a ground of decision. The sole basis of the
decision is stated as follows:
"An examination of the pleadings makes it quite clear
that the Receiver undertook to set up rights acquired by
the insolvent bank through duly executed contracts between it and the Surety Company. He makes no suggestion of a purpose attributable to the company to mislead creditors or others; makes no allegations of damage
except that sustained by the bank. He sets up no facts

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

which would render unconscionable a denial of liability
upon the bond because of the agent's fraud obviously
induced by the president of the bank. In this state of the
pleadings the Receiver may not have judgment; he cannot rely on something not complained of, nor can he have
damages because of supposed deceptions which the pleadings fail to suggest."
After so stating the court refers to the Rankin case and
says: "We adhere to the doctrine there approved and
regard it as decisive of the present cause."
Turning to the instant case, the facts are these: The
bank had acquired shares of its own stock illegally. Such
shares, so held, were inadmissible assets. The bank's
president, knowing that such acquisition of its own stock
was an illegal dissipation of its capital, worked out an
ostensible sale of the stock for a note which it was understood was to be placed amongst the assets of the bank for
the purpose of deceiving the examiners. The note was
without consideration and the understanding was that it
would not be collected. It was, of course, unenforceable
by the bank. Subsequently deposits were made in the
bank. It does not appear that the examiners saw the
note. After the Comptroller had found the bank insolvent and appointed a receiver, that officer filed a bill against
the maker of the note, first, to collect an assessment from
him as owner of the stock and, second, to recover the
face amount of the note, with interest. In this bill he
alleged his appointment as receiver, the acquisition of the
stock by the bank, and the placing of it in straw names,
the giving of the note for the purchase price of the stock;
and claimed "the unpaid principal amount of said
note . . . together with interest thereon, is due the
plaintiff . . ." His prayers were for a decree for the
amount of the assessment and for the principal amount,
with interest, of the note.
The answer outlined the true transaction, asserted that
the defendant's note was an accommodation note, that no

DEITRICK v. GREANEY.
190

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

consideration passed for it, and there could, therefore, be
no recovery upon it.
The District Court entered a decree for the amount of
the assessment and for the principal of the note with
interest. The Circuit Court affirmed as to the assessment
but reversed the judgment upon the note.
Here, as in the earlier case, there was no allegation that
any creditors were deceived; none of any loss to the creditors resulting from the giving of the note; none that the
receiver sued on behalf of creditors, and no cause of action
asserted save one to recover upon the note as an asset of
the bank. Here, as in the earlier case, the receiver has
urged upon this court that he does represent creditors;
that the public policy evidenced by the National Bank
Act disables the defendant, in view of the intended deception, from asserting the lack of consideration for the
note. Here, in contrast to the earlier case, the court accepts the view which was there rejected because not
within the issues tendered.
In Deitrick v. Standard Surety & Casualty Co., supra,
the receiver urged upon this court the very contentions
which he again advanced in the instant case; cited in support of those contentions numerous authorities which he
now cites, which are relied upon in the opinion now announced; sought to have this court adopt the proposition,
now affirmed by the opinion in the present case, that the
defendant was liable on the surety bond because of the
public policy evidenced in the National Bank Act which,
broadly speaking, estopped the surety to set up, as against
the receiver, appointed pursuant to the national banking
law, a wrong against that law in which it had participated.4 His contentions were held to be unavailing in
view of the cause of action he had pleaded.
'Out of sixty-eight pages of argument in petitioner's brief thirtynine were devoted to this contention; and every proposition now
relied upon to sustain the conclusion of the court was advanced in
that brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

206

Syllabus.

309 U. S.

In view of what has been said, it is apparent that,
under the guise of distinguishing the earlier case, the
court in fact overrules it.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS joins in this opinion.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
WATERMAN STEAMSHIP CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 193.

Argued January 3, 1940.-Decided February 12, 1940.

1. Certiorari granted to determine whether there was substantial
evidence to sustain an order of the National Labor Relations
Board which the court below declined to enforce as based on mere
suspicion. Pp. 207-209.
2. The requirement of the Act that "The findings of the Board, as
to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall . . . be conclusive,"
must be scrupulously obeyed by the courts. P. 208.
3. An employer-employee relationship within the scope of the National
Labor Relations Act may subsist through mutual understanding
between the owner of a vessel and members of its crew after its
return from a foreign voyage and after the crew, appearing with
the master before a shipping commissioner, have been paid off and
- "discharged" and have executed with the master a mutual release
of "all claims for wages in respect of past voyage or engagement,"
as provided by 46 U. S. C. §§ 564, 641, 644. P. 211.
4. A contract between an employer and a labor union for preferential
treatment of the latter in filling vacancies held not to require the
former to discharge employees because of their having joined
another union. P. 213.
5. In forbidding an employer to terminate an employee's tenure of
employment or any term or condition of employment because of
union activity or affiliation, § 8 (1) (3) of the Labor Act embraces
all elements of the employment relationship which in fact customarily attend employment and with respect to which an employer's
discrimination may as readily be the means of interfering with
employees' right of self-organization as if these elements were precise
terms of a written contract of employment. P. 218.

