HELVERING v. FITCH.

149

Statement of the Case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. FITCH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 243.

Argued January 5, 8, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. A husband, creating a trust for the support of his wife, from whom
he was separated, and in settlement of a suit brought by her for
maintenance, transferred to a trustee in Iowa certain premises and
a lease thereon. A stipulated amount of the income was to be paid
monthly to the wife, and the trust was irrevocable. The husband
reserved no interest in the trust estate (other than a life interest
in the excess of income over the amount payable to the wife),
and did not undertake to make good any deficiencies in payments
to the wife. The arrangement was subsequently confirmed by an
Iowa court in a decree of divorce. Held, a distribution of such
trust income to the wife (in 1933) was includible as income of the
husband for the purpose of the federal income tax. Pp. 150, 156.
2. The general rule is that amounts paid to a divorced wife under a
decree for alimony are not regarded as income of the wife but as
paid in discharge of the general obligation of the husband to support, which is made specific by the decree. Douglas v. Willcuts,
296 U. S. 1. P. 151.
3. The burden of establishing that the present case was not within
the general rule could be sustained only by clear and convincing
proof, here lacking, that the effect of the Iowa law, the trust, and
the divorce decree was a full and complete discharge of the obligation of the taxpayer for the support of his wife. P. 156.
4. Query whether under the Iowa divorce law the court retained
power to modify its decree by reallocating the income from the
trust property as between the husband and wife. P. 155.
103 F. 2d 702, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 535, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 37 B. T. A. 1330,
sustaining a determination of a deficiency in income
tax.

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Mr. Sewall
Key were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. William D. Mitchell and Arnold F. Schaetzle,
with whom Mr. Rollin Browne was on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner claimed that an amount of $7,128 distributed
in 1933 under a so-called alimony trust to respondent's
divorced wife should have been included in respondent's
taxable income for that year. The Board of Tax Appeals agreed and found a deficiency, 37 B. T. A. 1330.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, one judge dissenting, 103 F. 2d 702. We granted certiorari because
of the asserted failure of that court correctly to apply
the principle involved in Douglas v. Willcuts, 296
U. S. 1.
The so-called alimony trust in question was created a
few years before the divorce, while respondent and his
wife were separated, and in settlement of a suit brought
by her for separate maintenance. Certain premises (a
hair tonic factory and a long term lease thereon) were
transferred to a trustee to hold title, collect rents and
after deduction of expenses to pay the wife $600 a month
during her life and the balance to respondent for his life.1
On the death of either respondent or his wife the deRespondent and his wife separated in 1917.

In 1919 respondent

purchased a home for his wife, furnished it for her, and gave her an
automobile. In the same year F. W. Fitch Co. was incorporated and
acquired the assets of a predecessor partnership in exchange for
2,000 of its shares. Of these shares 1860 were issued to respondent
and 10 to his wife. She was also an officer and director of the
company, with a monthly salary of $300.
When the separate maintenance suit was settled in 1923, respond-

HELVERING v. FITCH.
149 .

Opinion of the Court.

ceased's share of the income was to be paid to their children.2 The trust was to continue at least fifteen years.
On the death of both respondent and his wife the principal was to be paid over to their children. The trust
was irrevocable. And while respondent covenanted to
pay off certain encumbrances on the trust property, he
did not underwrite in whole or in part the $600 monthly
payments to his wife.
In 1925 she filed suit for a divorce in an Iowa court.
A property settlement was agreed upon which included
the trust agreement and, in addition, provided for a
transfer to her by respondent of certain shares of stock
and cash.' The divorce decree confirmed the property
and alimony settlement.'
The general rule is clear. "Amounts paid to a divorced wife under a decree for alimony are not regarded
as income of the wife but as paid in discharge of the
general obligation to support, which is made specific by
the decree." Douglas v. Willcuts, supra, p. 8. It is plain
that there the alimony trust, which was approved by the
divorce decree, was merely security for a continuing oblient leased certain premises, owned by him, to the F. W. Fitch Co.
for 99 years, at an annual rental of $12,000. These premises and
that lease were transferred to the trustee. Upon creation of the
trust the wife ceased to be an officer and director of F. W. Fitch Co.
and received no further salary from it.
'No question of minor children is here involved, the youngest of
the four children having become of age in 1927.
'600 shares of stock of F. W. Fitch Co. and $23,500.
"It is, Therefore, Ordered, Adjudged and Decreed, that the plaintiff, Lettie S. Fitch, be, and she is hereby, divorced from the defendant, Fred W. Fitch, absolutely; . . . that the trust agreement which
is referred to in the defendant's answer as having been entered into
between these parties on or about the 23rd day of April 1923 . . . be,
and the same is hereby ratified and confirmed by the court; and that
the property and alimony settlement made by the parties be, and it
is hereby confirmed by the court."

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309.U. S.

gation of the taxpayer to support his divorced wife.
That was made evident not only by his agreement to
make up any deficiencies in the $15,000 annual sum to
be paid her under the trust. It was also confirmed by
the power of the Minnesota divorce court subsequently
to alter and revise its decree and the provisions made
therein for the wife's benefit. Likewise consistent with
the use of the alimony trust as a security device was the
provision that on death of the divorced wife the corpus
of the trust was to be transferred back to the taxpayer.
Respondent insists that in the instant case there is no
continuing obligation to which the income of the alimony trust is applied but rather that the property and
alimony settlement approved by the Iowa court effected
an absolute discharge of any duty or obligation on his
part to support his divorced wife. It is true that there
is no covenant or guarantee to make up any deficiency
in the monthly payment to his divorced wife, as there
was in the Douglas case. And unlike that alimony trust,
the instant one, though granting the taxpayer a participation in the income, irrevocably alienates the corpus.
Other indicia of the use of this alimony trust as a security device for any continuing obligation of respondent are alleged to be absent by reason of the lack of
power in the Iowa court to modify the decree confirming
the property and alimony settlement.
The Iowa statute provides: "When a divorce is decreed, the court may make such order in relation to the
children, property, parties, and the maintenance of the
parties as shall be right. Subsequent changes may be
made by it in these respects when circumstances render
them expedient." '
Admittedly the court under that statute has the power
to modify provisions in the original decree for the con'ยง 10481, Iowa Code.

HELVERING v. FITCH.
149

Opinion of the Court.

tinued support and maintenance of the wife.' And it
likewise seems well settled by a long line of Iowa cases
that where the original decree makes no provision for
alimony, there is no power subsequently to modify the
decree so as to provide it. 7 And, respondent contends,
where alimony is allowed in a lump sum or a property
settlement is ratified by the decree; the court retains no
power to modify.
Spain v. Spain, 177 Iowa 249; 158 N. W. 529, and
McCoy v. McCoy, 191 Iowa 973; 183 N. W. 377, on which
respondent and the Circuit Court of Appeals place reliance are not in point since those divorce decrees, unlike
the instant one, made no provision for alimony. In Spain
v. Spain, supra, the Supreme Court of Iowa specifically reserved the question of the power to modify a divorce
decree involving a property settlement. As to that it said
(pp. 260-261): "As to an award in gross, or a division of
the property, based upon an equitable apportionment of
the property of either of the parties at the time the
divorce is granted, we have no occasion to speak, for that
matter is not in the case."
Likewise Barishv.Barish, 190 Iowa 493; 180 N. W. 724,
cited below and urged here in support of respondent's
contention, is of little aid, for in spite of a strong concurring opinion that the court had no power to modify
an allowance of "gross" or "permanent" alimony, the
majority applied the statute and concluded (p. 501)
"Whatever the extent of the power of the court may be to
make such increase, it is always slow to exercise such
'See Corl v. Corl, 217 Iowa 812; 253 N. W. 125; Junger v. Junger,
215 Iowa 636; 246 N. W. 659; Boquette v. Boquette, 215 Iowa 990;
247 N. W. 255; Toney v. Toney, 213 Iowa 398; 239 N. W. 21; Morrison v. Morrison, 208 Iowa 1384; 227 N. W. 330.
'Spain v. Spain, 177 Iowa 249; 158 N. W. 529; McCoy v. McCoy,
191 Iowa 973; 183 N. W. 377; Handsaker v. Handsaker, 223 Iowa
462; 272 N. W. 609; Duvall v. Duvall, 215 Iowa 24; 244 N. W. 718;
Doekson v. Doekson, 202 Iowa 489; 210 N. W. 545.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

power, except in the presence of extraordinary circumstances, such as are not present here." To be sure, there
is the following strong statement in Kraft v. Kraft, 193
Iowa 602, 607; 187 N. W. 449: "We are inclined to the
view that, where alimony is allowed in a lump sum, as permanent alimony, or where there is a division of the real
property of the parties, as permanent alimony, the statute
does not authorize a change therein, except for such reasons which would justify the setting aside or changing of
a decree in any other case; that the party awarded permanent alimony is not tntitled to permanent alimony and
support both . . ." And in Carr v. Carr, 185 Iowa 1205;
171 N. W. 785, 787, that court stated, p. 1211: "Alimony is
allowed in lieu of dower and the prior duty of support,
and a review of the decree awarding or refusing same can
be had only for such fraud or mistake as would authorize
the setting aside or modification of any other decree."
In that case the divorce decree required the husband,
inter alia, to convey certain real estate to a trustee for
the exclusive benefit of the wife to be held in trust for
five years, during which time the income was to be paid
over to the wife and at the end thereof the trustee, on
demand, was to convey the property to her. Meanwhile,
the trustee had the power to sell the property at not less
than $100 an acre. Shortly before the expiration of the
five-year period, the divorced husband filed a cross-petition in the divorce suit asking for a modification of the
trust in order to protect his former wife from her own
cxtravagance and her inexperience in business affairs.
Apparently the relief asked was not based on the Iowa
statute giving the court power to make subsequent
changes in the divorce decree "when circumstances render
them expedient." For the court stated that the modification of the decree was sought on the grounds (1) that
the donor of the trust was entitled to have it carried out

HELVERING v. FITCH.
149

Opinion of the Court.

in accordance with its terms and the real purpose for
which it was created; and (2) that, in the alternative,
he was entitled to have a guardian of the property
appointed.
However that may be, much of the weight which respondent accords Kraft v. Kraft and Carr v. Car, supra,
seems to have been dissipated by McNary v. McNary,
206 Iowa 942; 221 N. W. 580. In that case the Supreme
Court of Iowa had squarely before it the question of
whether or not under the foregoing statute a decree of
permanent alimony awarding personal and real property
to the wife could be altered. The court after stating that
it knew of no case where such a decree had been subsequently modified, added (p. 946): "This question is
not argued by the parties, and we find it unnecessary to
make a pronouncement thereon." And, significantly, it
proceeded to apply the statute and finding that its conditions had not been satisfied, it denied the relief asked by
the divorced husband.
On this state of the Iowa authorities we can only speculate as to the power of the Iowa court to modify alimony
awarded in a lump sum or a property settlement ratified
by a divorce decree. To be sure, Kraft v. Kraft, supra,
involved some features common to the instant case, since
the wife was to receive the income of $4,000 to be
placed in trust by the husband or, until he placed it in
trust, 5 per cent on that amount. But the refusal to
modify that decree was not placed squarely, or even
largely, on the lack of power to do so but on other circumstances. Furthermore, the uncertainty created by
McNary v. McNary, supra, makes perhaps for even
greater uncertainty where an alimony trust of the kind
here involved is concerned. At least respondent has not
established a necessary identity in treatment of transfers
of personal or real property on the one hand and allow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

ance of income out of this kind of alimony trust on the
other. Even on the authority of Kraft v. Kraft, supra,
respondent has not clearly shown that in Iowa divorce
law the court has lost all jurisdiction to alter or revise
the amount of income payable to the wife from an enterprise which has been placed in trust. For all that we
know it might retain the power to reallocate the income
from that property even though it lacked the power to
add to or subtract from the corpus or to tap other sources
of income.' If it did have such power, then it could be
said that a decree approving an alimony trust of the
kind here involved merely placed upon the pre-existing
duty of the husband a particular and specified sanction.
In that event, the case would be little different from one
where the husband was directed to make specified payments to the divorced wife. And we see no reason why
the rule of Douglas v. Willcuts, supra, should not then
apply.
Enough has been said to show that respondent has
not sustained the burden of establishing that his case
falls outside the general rule expressed in Douglas v.
Willcuts, supra. If we were to conclude that this case
is an exception to that rule we would be acting largely
on conjecture as to Iowa law. That we cannot do. For
if such a result is to obtain, it must be bottomed on clear
and convincing proof, and not on mere inferences and
vague conjectures, that local law and the alimony trust
have given the divorced husband a full discharge and
leave no continuing obligation however contingent. Only
in that event can income to the wife from an alimony
trust be treated under the revenue acts the same as income accruing from property after a debtor has transferred that property to his creditor in full satisfaction of
Cf. Shaw v. Shaw, 59 I1. App. 268.

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
149

Syllabus.

his obligation-unless of course Congress decides otherwise.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of the opinion that the

judgment below should be affirmed.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. MINNESOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 222.

Argued January 8, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. Minnesota imposed on railroads a property tax measured by
gross earnings from operations within the State. In the absence
of adequate records, earnings from interchange of freight cars
were apportioned to Minnesota according to a formula. The reporting road was charged with that proportion of the balance
owing from each user of its cars which the user's Minnesota
revenue freight-car mileage was of the user's system car mileage;
and was permitted to deduct that proportion of the balance
owing to other roads for use of their cars which its Minnesota
freight-car mileage was of its system car mileage. The net credits
were ascertained annually and the tax imposed thereon. As
applied to a railroad whose Minnesota mileage was small compared to its system mileage, and whose deductions were small
compared with roads having extensive mileages within the State,
held that the tax formula was consistent with equal protection
and due process under the Fourteenth Amendment and with the
Commerce Clause of the Constitution. Pp. 161, 164.
2. The ratio of Minnesota revenue freight-car mileage to system car
mileage is consistent with the statutory scheme of ascertaining
what payments represent use in Minnesota. P. 161.
3. That the apportionment may not result in mathematical exactitude
is not a constitutional defect. P. 161.

