OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

would be decisive factors in determining which of several
pending applications was to be granted.
It is, however, urged upon us that if all matters of administrative discretion remain open for determination on
remand after reversal, a succession of single determinations upon single legal issues is possible with resulting
delay and hardship to the applicant. It is always easy
to conjure up extreme and even oppressive possibilities
in the exertion of authority. But courts are not charged
with general guardianship against all potential mischief
in the complicated tasks of government. The present
case makes timely the reminder that "legislatures are ultimate guardians of the liberties and welfare of the people in quite as great a degree as the courts." Missouri,
K. & T. Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267, 270. Congress
which creates and sustains these agencies must be trusted
to correct whatever defects'experience may reveal. Interference by the courts is not conducive to the development of habits of responsibility in administrative agencies. Anglo-American courts as we now know them are
themselves in no small measure the product of a historic
process.
The judgment is reversed, with directions to dissolve
the writ of mandamus and to dismiss respondent's
petition.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

FLY ET AL. v. HEITMEYER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 316.

Argued January 11, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

Decided upon the authority of the case last preceding.
70 App. D. C. 162; 105 F. 2d 41, reversed.

FLY v. HEITMEYER.
146

Opinion of the Court.

Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Messrs. Warner
W. Gardner, Robert M. Cooper, William J. Dempsey, and
William C. Koplovitz were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Clarence C. Dill, with whom Mr. James W. Gum
was on the brief, for respondent.
Citing Morgan v. United States, 304 U. S. 1; In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247, 255; Federal Laboratories v. Federal Radio Comm'n, 36 F. 2d 111; Chicago
Federation of Labor v. Federal Radio Comm'n, 41 F. 2d
422; Federal Radio Comm'n v. Nelson Bros., 289 U. S.
266; Salzman v. Stromberg Carlson Co., 46 F. 2d 612.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On March 25, 1935, Heitmeyer, respondent here, applied for a permit from the Federal Communications
Commission under ยง 319 of the Communications Act of
1934, c. 652, 48 Stat. 1089, 47 U. S. C. 319, to construct
a broadcasting station at Cheyenne, Wyoming. His application and a competing one were heard by an examiner.
The Commission, on May 1, 1936, denied respondent's
application on the sole ground that he was financially disqualified. He appealed to the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia and the Commission's decision was reversed. Heitmeyer v. Federal Communications Commission, 68 App. D. C. 180; 95 F. 2d
91. To proceed in conformity with this opinion, the case
was remanded to the Commission.
After Heitmeyer's appeal two other applications for
the same facilities were filed with the Commission. Following intermediate litigation, needless here to recount,
the Commission directed that respondent's case be reopened in conjunction with the pending rival applica-

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

tions. Before this hearing could be had, respondent obtained from the Court of Appeals a writ of mandamus
directing the Commission to restrict consideration of his
application to the record originally before it. McNinch
v. Heitmeyer, 70 App. D. C. 162; 105 F. 2d 41. Because
important questions of administrative law were involved,
we granted certiorari. 308 U. S. 540.
This case is controlled by our decision in Federal Communications Commission v. Pottsville Broadcasting Co.,
ante, p. 134.
The only relevant difference between the two cases is
that here the Commission proposed on remand not only
to reconsider respondent's application on oral argument
with subsequently filed rival applications, but to reopen
the record and take new evidence on the comparative
ability of the various applicants to satisfy "public convenience, interest, or necessity." But the Commission's duty
was to apply the statutory standard in deciding which
of the applicants was to receive a permit after it fell into
legal error as well as before. If, in the Commission's
judgment, new evidence was necessary to discharge its
duty, the fact of a previously erroneous denial should not,
according to the principles enunciated in the Pottsville
case, ante, bar it from access to the necessary evidence
for correct judgment.
The judgment is reversed, with directions to dissolve
the writ of mandamus and to dismiss respondent's
petition.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

