382

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

DICKINSON INDUSTRIAL SITE, INC. v. COWAN
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 386.

Argued February 6, 1940.-Decided March 11, 1940.

1. An appeal taken after the effective date of the "Chandler Act"
(September 22, 1938), from an order granting an allowance for
services, previously entered in a reorganization proceeding under
§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, is governed by the Chandler Act.
P. 383.
2. Section 276 (c) (2) of the Chandler Act which provides that the
provisions of Ch. X of that Act (the successor to § 77B of the
Bankruptcy Act), shall apply to pending proceedings "to the extent
that the judge shall deem their application practicable" relates solely
to proceedings in the District Court and has no application to
appellate proceedings. P. 383.
3. Appeals from orders making or refusing to make allowances of
compensation or reimbursement under Ch. X of the Chandler Act
may be had only at the discretion of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
P. 384.
104 F. 2d 771, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 543, to review a decision denying
a motion to dismiss an appeal from an order of the District Court granting an allowance for services in a reorganization under the Bankruptcy Act.

Messrs. Benjamin Wham and Walter A. Wade, with
whom Mr. George W. Ott was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Julian H. Levi, with whom Mr. Samuel E. Hirsch

was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.

A plan of reorganization of petitioner under § 77B of
the Bankruptcy Act (48 Stat. 912) was confirmed on Feb-

DICKINSON CO. v. COWAN.
382

Opinion of the Court.

iuary 23, 1938. Respondents are members of a bondholders' committee who sought an allowance in those proceedings. On October 26, 1938, theywere awarded $2,000
for services rendered, $20,000 having been asked. On
November 25, 1938, they petitioned the Circuit Court of
Appeals for leave to appeal from that order. The appeal
was allowed. Petitioner moved to dismiss the appeal on
the ground that the Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction
to allow it, the argument being that respondents had an
appeal as of right which could only be taken by filing a
notice of appeal in the District Court. The Circuit Court
of Appeals denied petitioner's motion to dismiss and
modified the order by increasing the allowance to $10,000.
104 F. 2d 771. We granted certiorari because of a conflict
of that ruling with London v. O'Dougherty,102 F. 2d 524,
which held that appeals from compensation orders involving $500 or more could be had as a matter of right under
the Chandler Act (52 Stat. 840).
First. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the provisions of the Chandler Act, which became effective on
September 22, 1938 (§ 7), were applicable to this appeal.
We think that follows from § 6 (b) of the Act which
states that "Except as otherwise provided in this amendatory Act, the provisions of this amendatory Act shall
govern proceedings so far as practicable in cases pending
when it takes effect; . . ." Where, as here, appeal is
taken after the effective date of the Act, it is clearly
"practicable" to apply the new appeal provisions. Contrary to respondents' contention, § 276 (c) (2) is not
applicable to appeals. It provides that the provisions of
Ch. X (the successor to § 77B) shall apply to pending
proceedings "to the extent that the judge shall deem their
application practicable" where the petition in such proceedings was approved more than three months before
the effective date of the amendatory Act. But that relates solely to proceedings in the district court. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

"judge" referred to in that section means a "judge of a
court of bankruptcy." § 1 (20). Such court does not
include the Circuit Court of Appeals. § 1 (10). Hence
the application of the new appeal provisions to this type
of case is not dependent on a determination of practicability by the district judge under § 276 (c) (2).
Second. Petitioner's argument that the appeal in this
case could be taken as a matter of right requires an analysis of § 24 and § 250 of the Chandler Act. Sec. 24 provides in part:
"a. The Circuit Courts of Appeals of the United States
and the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, in vacation, in chambers, and during their
respective terms, as now or as they may be hereafter held,
are hereby invested with appellate jurisdiction from the
several courts of bankruptcy in their respective jurisdictions in proceedings in bankruptcy, either interlocutory
or final, and in controversies arising in proceedings in
bankruptcy, to review, affirm, revise, or reverse, both in
matters of law and in matters of fact: Provided, however,
That the jurisdiction upon appeal from a judgment on a
verdict rendered by a jury, shall extend to matters of law
only: Provided further, That when any order, decree, or
judgment involves less than $500, an appeal therefrom
may be taken only upon allowance of the appellate court.
"b. Such appellate jurisdiction shall be exerdised by
appeal and in the form and manner of an appeal."
Sec. 250 provides:
"Appeals may be taken in matters of law or fact from
orders making or refusing to make allowances of compensation or reimbursement, and may, in the manner and
within the time provided for appeals by this Act, be taken
to and allowed by the circuit court of appeals independently of other appeals in the proceeding, and shall be
summarily heard upon the original papers."

DICKINSON CO. v. COWAN.
382

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner contenis that Congress by § 24 created a
single test-the amount of the order appealed from-for
determining whether leave to appeal was necessary and
that the words "allowed by" in § 250 refer to appeals
from orders of allowances of less than $500.
Our view, however, is that appeals from all orders
making or refusing to make allowances of compensation
or reimbursement under Ch. X of the Chandler Act may
be had only at the discretion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Under § 77B (c) (9) it was provided that "appeals
from orders fixing such allowances may be taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals independently of other appeals
in the proceeding and shall be heard summarily." And it
was held by this Court in Shulman v. Wilson-Sheridan
Hotel Co., 301 U. S. 172, that those appeals could not be
had as a matter of right but only in the discretion of the
appellate court as provided in former § 24 (b). That
was the way the matter stood when § 250 was drafted.
The history of that section 1 shows that it was derived
from § 77B (c) (9). But, significantly, the words "and
allowed by" were added-words not present in § 77B (c)
(9). The result plainly was (1) to carry over into the
new act the rule of Shulman v. Wilson-Sheridan Hotel
Co., supra, and (2) to set apart in a separate section the
provisions for appeals from that type of order so as to
make those appeals no longer dependent on § 24, which
had become a storm center for the revisionists.2 If the
House did not intend" the latter result, then the addition
of the words "and allowed by" were wholly needless, as
under the House revision of § 24 appeals from compensa-

iS.
2

Rep. No. 1916, 75th Cong., 3rd Sess., p. 38.
H. R. Hearings on H. R. 6439 (H. R. 8046), 75th Cong., 1st Sess.,

pp. 79-80, 213-218, 222-223, 240-241, 405-406; S. Hearings on H. R.
8046, 75th Cong., 2nd Sess., pp. 53-54, 60, 103-108. And see H. R.
Rep. No. 1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 22.
215234-40-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court,

309 U. S.

tion orders would have been discretionary with the appellate court.'
'This is made clear by comparison of § 250 with § 24 as they
passed the House.
Sec. 250 then read:
"Appeals in matters of law or fact from orders making or refusing
to make allowances of compensation or reimbursement may, in the
manner and within the time provided for appeals by this Act, be
taken to and allowed by the circuit court of appeals independently
.of other appeals in the proceeding, and shall be summarily heard
upon the original papers."
Sec. 24 a and b then read:
"a. The Circuit Courts of Appeals of the United States and the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in
vacation, in chambers, and during their respective terms, as now
or as they may be hereafter held, are hereby invested with appellate
jurisdiction from the several courts of bankruptcy in their respective
jurisdictions (1) of controversies arising in the course of proceedings
under this Act in the same manner and to the same extent as in
suits at law or in equity; (2) to superintend and revise, in matter
of law and fact, the proceedings of such inferior courts of bankruptcy
in the following cases: (a) A judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge a person a bankrupt; (b) a judgment approving or dismissing
a petition filed by or against a debtor under chapter X of this Act;
(c) a judgment granting or denying a discharge; (d) a judgment
confirming or refusing to confirm an arrangement or plan; (e) a
judgment allowing or rejecting a debt, claim, or interest of $500 or
over; and (f) a judgment allowing or dismissing an application for
an order -upon a bankrupt or other person to deliver or turn over
property to the marshal, or to the receiver or trustee of the estate;
and (3) to superintendent and revise, in matter of law only, the
proceedings in all other cases of such inferior courts of bankruptcy.
"b. Such appellate jurisdiction shall be exercised by appeal and
in the form and manner of an appeal: Provided, That in the cases
specified in subdivision a (3) of this section, such appeals shall be
allowed in the discretion of the appellate court: And provided further,
That where, within the time limited for taking appeals, an appeal
has been taken as of right instead of by allowance of the appellate
court, the appellate court may in its discretion allow such appeal
at any time before final determination with the same effect as if it
had been duly allowed, when taken, and where, within the time

DICKINSON CO. v. COWAN.
382

Opinion of the Court.

Hence under the House Bill as it reached the Senate,
it seems clear that no such appeals could be had as a
matter of right. In the Senate the present §24 was substituted for the House provision; but the present §250
was not altered in any respect material here. It is clear
from the Senate hearings and Committee Report that the
Senate was interested only in the elimination from §24
of the old distinctions between "controversies arising in
bankruptcy proceedings" and "proceedings" in bankruptcy.' There was not the slightest intimation of any
limited for taking appeals, an appeal has been taken by allowance
of the appellate court instead of as of right, the appellate court may
in its discretion entertain and determine such appeal with the same
effect as if it had been duly taken as of right."
S. Rep., supra note 1, p. 4, commented as follows on the present
§ 24:
"The House bill makes certain amendments in the sections of the
act (24-25) relative to appeals, but preserves the existing distinction
between appeals as of right and appeals by leave of the appellate
courts. The amendment presented by the committee practically
abolishes this distinction. Under it, appeals may be made as of
right in all cases involving $500 or more. In controversies of less
than this amount, appeals may be taken only upon allowance by
the appellate court. The jurisdiction of the appellate court will
extend both to matter of law and of fact, except that in an appeal
from a judgment on a verdict rendered by a jury the jurisdiction
will extend to matters of law only. The removal of the troublesome
distinction will be a service to both bench and bar. It is often
difficult to determine the proper procedure under the present law
and frequently appeals are taken in both ways in order to be certain.
The House bill seeks to remedy this condition by providing that in
the event of mistake the appellate court may consider the appeal as
properly taken and proceed to a determination of the case. Your
committee believes it is much better to eliminate the distinction
altogether."
The testimony of Reuben G. Hunt before the Senate Committee
is particularly illuminating on this point of controversy. S. Hearings, supra, note 2, p. 53. See also Hunt, Appeals from the District
Courts to the Circuit Courts of Appeals in Bankruptcy Cases, 42
Comm. L. Journ. (1937).

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

dissatisfaction with the rule of Shulman v. WilsonSheridan Hotel Co., supra, or with § 250 as it passed the
House. To be sure, the Senate Committee Report is
somewhat ambiguous.' But it is perhaps significant that
that report in commenting on § 24 stated not that it
"abolished" but that it "practically abolished" the distinction between appeals as of right and appeals by leave
of the appellate courts.
More important, however, is the matter of statutory
construction. To hold that an appeal from a compensation order is governed by § 24 the words "taken to and
allowed by" in § 250 must be read "taken to or allowed
by." Only then can appeals from compensation orders
involving less than $500 be governed by "allowed by" and
appeals from all other such orders be governed by "taken
to." In the face of the foregoing history we do not believe we are justified in substituting "or" for "and." The
inappropriateness of it is somewhat emphasized by the history of "taken to" which in Shulman v. Wilson-Sheridan
Hotel Co., supra, was held not to permit an appeal as of
right. It is further emphasized by considerations of
policy.
The history of fees in corporate reorganizations contains many sordid chapters. One of the purposes of § 77B
was to place those fees under more effective control.'
Buttressing that control was § 77B (c) (9) which, together with former § 24 (b), made appeals from compensation orders discretionary with the appellate court.
'That report states that the present § 24 "practically abolishes"
the distinction "between appeals as of right and appeals by leave of
the appellate courts." Id., supra, note 4. And the Committee in
commenting on § 250 merely says:
"Section 250, derived from section 77B (c) (9), is intended to
facilitate appeals from the grant or refusal of an allowance of compensation. These are to be disposed of without the necessity of a
printed record." Id., p. 38.
'H. R. Rep. No. 194, 73rd Cong., 1st Sess., p. 1.

DICKINSON CO. v. COWAN.
382

Opinion of the Court.

We should not depart from that policy in absence of a
clear expression from Congress of its desire for a change.
Fee claimants are either officers of the court or fiduciaries,7 such as members of committees, whose claims for
allowance from the estate are based only on service rendered to and benefits received by the estate." Allowance
or disallowance involves an exercise of sound discretion by
the court based on that statutory standard. Unlike appeals from other orders, appeals from compensation
orders therefore normally involve only one question of
law-abuse of discretion. These factors not only emphasize the appropriateness of the separate treatment by
Congress of appeals from compensation orders; they reinforce the interpretation of § 250 which restricts these
appeals. For certainly it seems sound policy to require
fiduciaries to make out a prima facie case of inequitable
treatment in order to be heard before the appellate court.
To allow these appeals as a matter of right is to encourage an unseemly parade to the appellate courts and
to add to the time and expense of administration. We
will not resolve any ambiguities in favor of that
alternative.
Whether or not the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in
modifying the order so as to grant respondents an increased allowance was not raised in the petition for certiorari and hence has not been considered here. Helis v.
Ward, 308 U. S. 365.
Affirmed.
'The fiduciary status of such claimants is expressly recognized in
the Chandler Act. Sec. 249 provides in part:
"No compensation or reimbursement shall be allowed to any committee or attorney, or other person acting in the proceedings in a
representative or fiduciary capacity, who at any time after assuming
to act in such capacity has purchased or sold such claims or stock,
or by whom or for whose account such claims or stock have, without
the prior cofisent or subsequent approval of the judge, been otherwise
acquired or transferred."
- § 243.

