WOODRING v. WARDELL.
Argument for Respondent.

517

in violation of the Act, is answered by what was said in
Marion v. Sneeden (p. 269):
"comptrollers of the currency knew that this was being
done; and they assumed that the banks had power so to
do. But the assumption was erroneous."
I think that as the Court of Appeals followed the
principle rightly applied in the decisions of this court its
judgment should be affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS join
in this opinion.
WOODRING, SECRETARY OF WAR, ET AL. V.
WARDELL, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 5.

Argued October 10, 11, 1939.-Decided March 25, 1940.

Decided upon the authority of the case last preceding.
69 App. D. C. 280; 100 F. 2d 690, reversed.

306 U. S. 626, to review the affirmance of
a judgment recovered by the receiver of a national bank
against the petitioners.
CERTIORARI,

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson and Mr. Paul A. Sweeney were on the
brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Brice Clagett and George P. Barse, with whom
Messrs. Charles E. Wainwright and George B. Springston
were on the brief, for respondent.
There is no congressional policy giving preference to
Government deposits. Though Congress gave claims of
the United States against insolvents priority over all
others, the rule is inapplicable to claims against insolvent
national banks.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

309 U. S.

The general power given to national banks to secure
public deposits relates specifically to public money of
the United States. Whenever Congress designed to authorize the securing of deposits of funds which, strictly
speaking, might not be United States public money, it
has done so by a specific Act.
It was recognized at the time these deposits were made,
and since, that they did not constitute public money
of the United States and did not fall under any statute
authorizing the securing of deposits in national banks.
The pledges admittedly were not made under U. S. C.,
Title 12, § 90.
There is no specific Act of Congress, and no rule or
regulation having the effect of such an Act, authorizing
the pledge of securities by national banks to secure
deposits of Canal Zone money order funds.
The lack of statutory authority can not be supplied
either by custom or usage, or by the sanction and approval of the Comptroller of the Currency or other executive officers.
Being unauthorized, the pledge was void, and neither
the pledgees, the Canal Zone, nor the United States
acquired any right or interest in the illegally pledged
bonds or the proceeds thereof, which remained the property of the bank. And the receiver is entitled to recover
the property.
Since the possession of petitioners derives from a void
act, their possession is personal, not official, and a suit
against them is not a suit against the United States.
The doctrine of sovereign immunity does not apply,
because the United States, having no interest in the fund
sought to be recovered, is not an indispensable party to
the suit.

WOODRING v. WARDELL.

529

Opinion of the Court.

527

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companion case to Inland Waterways Corp.
v. Young, ante, p. 517. The District National Bank
pledged some of its assets to secure deposits made by the
Secretary of War on behalf of the Panama Canal Zone.
The Bank became insolvent in 1933, and the pledged
assets were sold. Respondent, the Bank's receiver,
brought this action to recover that part of the proceeds
which represented an amount in excess of dividends paid
to the ordinary depositors. The District Court held that
the pledges were ultra vires and gave judgment for the
respondent. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 69 App.
D. C. 280; 100 F. 2d 690.
For the reasons stated in Inland Waterways Corp. v.
Young, ante, we are of opinion that the pledges given by
the Bank were valid, and that the judgment below
should be
Reversed.

The

and
for the reasons set forth in their

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS,

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,
dissenting opinion in Inland Waterways Corp. v. Young,
ante, p. 525, dissent here.
MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no
part in the disposition of this case.

215234°-40--:34

