MADDEN v. KENTUCKY.
78

Statement of the Case.

of § 302 (f). The important consideration is the breadth
of the control the decedent could exercise over the property, whatever the nature or extent of the appointee's
interest.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

MADDEN, EXECUTOR, v. KENTUCKY, BY
REEVES, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 92. Argued December 14, 1939.-Decided January 29, 1940.
1. A statute by which a State taxed deposits in banks outside of the
State atfifty cents per hundred dollars and deposits in banks within
the State at ten cents per hundred dollars, held consistent with the
due process, equal protection and privileges and immunities clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 86.
2. In taxation, even more than in other fields, legislatures possess
the greatest freedom in classification. The presumption of constitutionality can be overcome only by the most explicit demonstration that a classification is a hostile and oppressive discrimination against particular persons and classes. P. 87.
3. The treatment accorded the two kinds of deposits in this case
may have resulted from the differences in the difficulties and expenses of tax collection. P. 89.
4. The right to carry out an incident to a trade, business or calling,
such as the deposit of money in banks, is not a privilege of national
citizenship, protected by the privileges and immunities clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Hague v. C. I 0., 307 U. S. 496,
expounded; Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U. S. 404, in part overruled.
P. 90.
277 Ky. 343; 126.S. W. 2d 463, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining the assessment and
taxation of a decedent's bank deposits, in a suit against the
executor of his will in the name of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellant.

309 U. S.

Mr. Leo T. Wolford, with whom Mr. Wm.Marshall
Bullitt was on the brief, for appellant.
The privileges and immunities of a citizen of the United
States are abridged by this statute. Colgate v. Harvey,
296 U. S. 404; Pendleton v. Commonwealth, 110 Va. 229;
Campbell v. Watson, 62 N. J. Eq. 396; cf. Thompson v.
Riggs, 5 Wall. 663, 680.
If convenience in collection justifies a more burdensome tax upon business done or property held outside
the State, then the State may (1) require its citizens to
pay a higher rate of income tax on business done outside
the State; (2) require higher inheritance taxes to be paid
on property owned by its citizens'and situated outside
the State; (3) require the payment of taxes at a higher
rate on bonds of corporations organized under the laws of
other States, on the ground that it could require reports
to be made by corporations organized under its own laws;
and (4) require higher taxes to be paid upon indebtedness owing to its citizens by non-resident debtors. The
vice of such discrimination is that it penalizes the citizen
for engaging in business in other States.
State legislation which undertakes to localize modern
banking, destroys its national function and utility.
The tax can not (consistently with the Fourteenth
Amendment) be justified on the ground that the legislature may have hoped thereby to increase the business of
local banks or to stimulate business within the State.
Colgate case, supra.
In GreatA. & P. Tea Co. v. Kentucky Tax Comm'r, 278
Ky. 367, the Kentucky court said that the Act must be
considered strictly as a revenue measure.
The statute denies to the executor the equal protection
of the laws and deprives him of his liberty and property
without due process of law.
For purposes of taxation, the situs of the deposits in
banks outside the State is at the residence of the tax-

MADDEN v. KENTUCKY.
83

Opinion of the Court.

payer, as in the case of deposits in banks within the State.
Thus, there is no difference in the location of the taxable
property.
The only difference between the two is the residence of
the debtor banks. The situation is the same as if Kentucky required its citizens to pay taxes of a grossly discriminatory rate upon all obligations owing to its citizens
by non-resident debtors.
The difference (five fold) is so great as to manifest an
intention absolutely to prohibit all deposits in banks outside the State. Cf. Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253
U. S. 412, 415.
But if the discrimination can be justified upon the
ground of convenience, then there is no constitutional inhibition against a state tax at a discriminatory or prohibitive rate on deposits in national banks within that State,
or a tax on deposits in city banks at a higher rate than that
applied to deposits in country banks, or a tax at a lower
rate on intangible property owned by domestic corporations than on that owned by foreign corporations. See
Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32; Royster
Guano Co. v. Virginia, supra; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165
U. S. 578.
Mr. Samuel M. Rosenstein, with whom Messrs. Clifford
E. Smith, Joseph J. Leary, and Harry D. Kremer were on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal' brought hereunder § 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code from a judgment of the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky sustaining the validity of a statute of that
state against an attack by the appellant on the ground
of its being repugnant to the due process, equal protec'See Act of January 31, 1928, 45 Stat. 54.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

tion, and privileges and immunities clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.
The issue is whether a state statute which imposes on
its citizens an annual ad valorem tax on their deposits
in banks outside of the state at the rate of fifty cents
per hundred dollars and at the same time imposes on
their deposits in banks located within the state a similar
ad valorem tax at the rate of ten cents per hundred dollars is obnoxious to the stated clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The relevant provisions of the Kentucky
statutes for the period in question appear in the note
below.2
The opinion of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in
this case construes the exception in § 4019, limiting the
tax on bank deposits to one-tenth of one per cent, as
applicable only to depositors in local financial institutions
organized under the laws of Kentucky or under the na'Carroll's Kentucky Statutes, Baldwin's Revision, 1930, § 4019a-10,
p. 2052 (Ky. Acts, 1924, Ch. 116, § 3) provides:
"All property subject to taxation for state purposes shall be subject
also to taxation in the county, city, school, or other taxing district in
which same has a taxable situs, except the following classes of property which shall be subject to taxation for state purposes only:
"(4) Money in hand, notes, bonds, accounts and other credits,
whether secured by mortgage, pledge, or otherwise, or unsecured, and
shares of stock; . . ."

Carroll's Kentucky Statutes, Baldwin's Revision 1930, § 4019, p.
2048 (Ky. Acts 1924, Ch. 116, § 1, p. 402, as reenacted in Ky. Acts
1926, Ch. 164, p. 739), provides as follows:
"An annual ad valorem tax for state purposes of thirty cents (300)
upon each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of value of all real estate
directed to be assessed for taxation, as provided by law and fifty
cents (500) upon each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of value of all
other property directed to be assessed for taxation, as provided by
law, shall be paid by the owner, person or corporation assessed;
except a tax at the rate of one-tenth of one percent (0.1%) [i. e., 10

MADDEN v. KENTUCKY.
83

Opinion of the Court.

tional banking laws. This interpretation of the state laws
is of course accepted by us.'
John E. Madden died in November, 1929, a citizen and
resident of Fayette County, Kentucky. On several prior
assessment dates, July 1 in Kentucky, Mr. Madden had
on deposit in New York banks a considerable amount of
funds. These deposits had not been reported for the
purposes of taxation in Kentucky. That state brought
suit against Mr. Madden's executor to have these deposits
assessed as omitted property and to recover an ad
valorem tax of 50 cents per hundred dollars as of July
1 of each year, together with interest and penalties. The
executor used as one defense against this claim the contention that a tax on deposits in banks outside of Kentucky at a higher rate than the tax upon bank deposits
within Kentucky would abridge decedent's privileges and
immunities as a citizen of the United States, deprive him
of his property right and the liberty to keep money on
deposit outside of Kentucky without due process of law,
and deny to him equal protection of the law in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court of Appeals
passed upon the constitutional questions submitted because of the difference in taxing rate between Kentucky
deposits and out-of-state deposits. It approved the classification as permissible under the due process and equal
protection clauses and refused to accept the argument
that its interpretation of the statutes violated the privileges and immunities clause.
I. Classification.-The broad discretion as to classification possessed by a legislature in the field of taxation
cents upon each $100] shall be paid annually upon the amount of
deposits in any bank, trust company, or combined bank and trust
company, organized under the laws of this State, or in any national
bank of this State as now provided by law; . ..
'St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 362; Storoasli v.
Minnesota, 283 U. S. 57, 62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

88

Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

has long been recognized.- This Court fifty years ago
concluded that "the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to compel the State to adopt an iron rule of equal
taxation," ' and the passage of time has only served to
underscore the wisdom of that recognition of the large
area of discretion which is needed by a legislature in
formulating sound tax policies. Traditionally classification has been a device for fitting tax programs to local
needs and usages in order to achieve an equitable distribution of the tax burden. It has, because of this, been
pointed out that in taxation, even more than in other
fields, legislatures possess the greatest freedom in classification.( Since the members of a legislature necessarily
enjoy a familiarity with local conditions which this
Court cannot have, the presumption of constitutionality
can be overcome only by the most explicit demonstration
that a classification is a hostile and oppressive discrimination against particular persons and classes.' The burden is on the one attacking the legislative arrangement
to negative every conceivable basis which might support it.8
Paying proper regard to the scope of a legislature's
powers in these matters, the insubstantiality of appellant's claim that he has been denied equal protection or
due process of law by the classification is at once apparent. When these statutes were adopted in 1917 during
a general revision of Kentucky's tax laws, the chief problem facing the legislature was the formulation of an
4

New York Rapid Transit Corp. v. New York, 303 U. S. 573, and

cases there cited.
'Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237.
Citizens' Telephone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 329.
'See the opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis in Louisville Gas & Electric
8 Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 42, 46-47.

Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78-79.

MADDEN v. KENTUCKY.
83

Opinion of the Court.

entorceable system of intangible taxation.' By placing
the duty of collection on local banks, the tax on local
deposits was made almost self-enforcing. The tax on
deposits outside the state, however, still resembled that
on investments in Watson v. State Comptroller, the collection of which was said to depend "either upon [the
taxpayer's] will or upon the vigilance and discretion of
the local assessors." "o Here as in the Watson case the
classification may have been "founded in 'the purposes
'Because of a prohibition in the Kentucky Constitution of 1891
against classification in taxation, the state and its political subdivisions taxed intangibles at the same rate as other property. This
resulted in a total tax of about $2.65 per hundred dollars on intangibles, a tax which in the case of bank deposits almost equaled the
interest on deposits. The high rate led to widespread evasion of the
tax by concealment of intangibles; with bank deposits this took the
form of withdrawals for deposits outside the state. The unequal
burden which this evasion placed on other forms of property led to
agitation for reform as early as 1908. Two special tax commissions
reported on the need for a constitutional amendment and a general
tax reform. After an amendment permitting classification was
adopted in 1916, a third committee made specific proposals for revision, and most of the recommendations were adopted at a special
legislative session in 1917. See the message of Governor Stanley to
the General Assembly of 1917, Kentucky Senate Journal of 1917,
p. 13. In general the revision took the form of a drastic lowering of
the rates on intangibles. An even lower rate was placed on bank
deposits and almost complete collection assured by placing the duty
of collection on the banks.
The studies which led to the general revision of 1917 may be found
in Report of the Kentucky Tax Commission for 1909; Report of the
Special Tax Commission of Kentucky for 1912-14; Report of the
Kentucky Tax Commission for 1916. A careful examination of the
workings of the revised system has been made by Dr. Simeon E.
Leland. The Taxation of Intangibles in Kentucky, Bulletin of the
Bureau of Business Research, College of Commerce, University of
Kentucky, vol. 1, no. 1 (1929).
" 254 U. S. 122, 124.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

and policy of taxation.' " The treatment accorded the
two kinds of deposits may have resulted from the differences in the difficulties and expenses of tax collection. 1'
II. Privileges and Immunities.-The appellant presses
urgently upon us the argument that the privileges and
immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States 12 forbids the enforcement by the Commonwealth of Kentucky of this enactment which imposes upon the testator taxes five times as
great on money deposited in banks outside the State as
it does on money of others deposited in banks within the
State. The privilege or immunity which appellant contends is abridged is the right to carry on business beyond
the lines of the State of his residence, a right claimed as
appertaining to national citizenship.
There is no occasion to attempt again an exposition of
the views of this Court as to the proper limitations of the
privileges and immunities clause. There is a very recent
discussion in Hague v. C. I. 0.13 The appellant purports
to accept as sound the position stated as the view of all
the justices concurring in the Hague decision. This position is that the privileges and immunities clause protects
all citizens against abridgement by states of rights of national citizenship as distinct from the fundamental or
" Carmichael v. Southern Coal & Coke Co., 301 U. S. 495, 511.
" The 14th Amendment, § 1, provides:
"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of
the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any
law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; . . ."
1 307 U. S. 496. The prior cases are collected in Note 2 of the
dissenting opinion in Colgate v. Harvey (296 U. S. 404, 445) and
Note 1 of Mr. Justice Stone's opinion in the Hague case (307 U. S.
496, 520).

MADDEN v. KENTUCKY.
83

91

Opinion of the Court.

natural rights inherent in state citizenship.14 This Court
declared in the Slaughter-House Cases " that the
Fourteenth Amendment as well as the Thirteenth and
Fifteenth were adopted to protect the negroes in their
freedom. This almost contemporaneous interpretation
extended the benefits of the privileges and immunities
clause to other rights which are inherent in national
citizenship but denied it to those which spring from
" Mr. Justice Roberts' opinion, at p. 512: "Although it has been
held that the Fourteenth Amendment created no rights in citizens of
the United States, but merely secured existing rights against state
abridgement, it is clear that the right peaceably to assemble and to
discuss these topics, and to communicate respecting them, whether
orally or in writing, is a privilege inherent in citizenship of the United
States which the Amendment protects."
Mr. Justice Stone's opinion, at p. 519-21: "Hence there is no
occasion . . . to revive the contention, rejected by this Court in the
Slaughter-House Cases, that the privileges and immunities of United
States citizenship, protected by that clause, extend beyond those
which arise or grow out of the relationship of United States citizens
to the national government.
"That such is the limited application of the privileges and immunities clause seems now to be conceded by my brethren."
16 Wall. 36, at 71-72:
"We repeat, then, in the light of this recapitulation of events, almost
too recent to be called history, but which are familiar to us all; and
on the most casual examination of the language of these amendments,
no one can fail to be impressed with the one pervading purpose found
in them all, lying at the foundation of each, and without which none
of them would have been even suggested; we mean the freedom of
the slave race, the security and firm establishment of that freedom,
and the protection of the newly-made freeman and citizen from the
oppressions of those who had formerly exercised unlimited dominion
over him. . ..
And so, if other rights are assailed by the States which
properly and necessarily fall within the protection of these articles,
that protection will apply though the party interested may not be of
African descent. But what we do say, and what we wish to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

state citizenship.16 In applying this constitutional principle this Court has determined that the right to operate
an independent slaughter-house," to sell wine on terms of
equality with grape growers 18 and to operate businesses
free of state regulation 1 were not privileges and immunities protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. And a
state inheritance tax statute which limited exemptions to
charitable corporations within the state was held not to
infringe any right protected by the privileges and immunities clause."0 The Court has consistently refused to
list completely the rights which are covered by the clause,
though it has pointed out the type of rights protected."'
We think it quite clear that the right to carry out an incident to a trade, business or calling 2 such as the deposit
understood is, that in any fair and just construction of any section
or phrase of these amendments, it is necessary to look to the purpose
which we have said was the pervading spirit of them all, the evil
which they were designed to remedy, and the process of continued
addition to the Constitution until that purpose was supposed to be
accomplished, as far as constitutional law can accomplish it."
" Idem, 78-79.
" Slaughter-House Cases, supra.
" Cox v. Texas, 202 U. S. 446; cf. Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall.
129; Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148
U. S. 657; Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304.
" Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.366; Wilmington Star Mining Co. v.
Fulton, 205 U. S. 60; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Commercial
Milling Co., 218 U. S. 406; Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260;
PrudentialIns. Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S. 530.
' Board of Education v. Illinois, 203 U. S.553; cf. Ferry v. Spokane,
P. & S. Ry. Co., 258 U. S. 314.
1 They have been described as "privileges and immunities arising
out of the nature and essential character of the national government,
and granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States."
In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448. See also Slaughter-House Cases,
supra, at 79-80; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 552;
Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 274; Twining v. New Jersey, 211
U. S. 78, 97.
"2Cf. Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 94.

MADDEN v. KENTUCKY.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

83

of money in banks is not a privilege of national citizenship.
In the states, there reposes the sovereignty to manage
their own affairs except only as the requirements of the
Constitution otherwise provide. Within these constitutional limits the power of the state over taxation is plenary. An interpretation of the privileges and immunities
clause which restricts the power of the states to manage
their own fiscal affairs is a matter of gravest concern to
them." It is only tht emphatic requirements of the
Constitution which properly may lead the federal courts
to such a conclusion.
Appellant relies upon Colgate v. Harvey " as a precedent to support his argument that the present statute is
not within the limits of permissible classification and
violates the privileges and immunities clause. In view
of our conclusions, we look upon the decision in that
case as repugnant to the line of reasoning adopted here.
As a consequence, Colgate v. Harvey must be and is
overruled.
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES concurs in the result upon
the ground, as stated by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, that the classification adopted by the legislature
rested upon a reasonable basis.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I think that the judgment should be reversed. Four
years ago in Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U. S. 404, this court
held that the equal protection clause and the privileges
and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment prohibit such a discrimination as results from the statute
now under review. I adhere to the views expressed in
2

Twining v. New Jersey, supra, 92.

14296

U. S. 404.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

the opinion of the court in that case, and think it should
be followed in this.
MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS joins in this opinion.

JAMES STEWART & CO. v. SADRAKULA,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 251.

Argued January 12, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. Under Jud. Code § 237 (a) and the Act of January 31, 1928,
this Court has jurisdiction over an appeal from a judgment of a
state court of last resort, sustaining a recovery of damages for
accidental death, which necessarily upholds a state statute under
which the damages were awarded against the contention that, in
its application to the locus in quo-a post-office site-it violated
the provisions of the Constitution as to authority of the United
States in such places. P. 97.
2. Upon the transfer from a State to the United States of exclusive
jurisdiction of a site for a postoffice, the state laws in effect
at the time continue in force as federal laws, save as they may be
inappropriate to the changed situation or inconsistent with the
national purpose, and save as Congress may have provided otherwise. P. 99.
3. Section 241 (4) of the New York Labor Law, which requires the
planking-over of floor beams on which iron or steel work is being
erected in building construction, remained in force as to the postoffice site in New York City after the acquisition of the site by.
the United States, and was applicable to a contractor engaged
in constructing the post office under a contract with the Government. P. 100.
The fact that the Labor Law contains numerous administrative and other provisions inapplicable in the changed situation
does not render § 241 (4) inapplicable.
4. The possibility that the safety requirement of boarding-over the
steel tiers may slightly increase the cost of construction to the
Government does not make the requirement inapplicable to the
postoffice site. P. 104.

