AMALGAMATED WORKERS v. EDISON CO.

261

Opinion of the Court.

251

there was enough to sustain the deputy commissioner's
ruling.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.
AMALGAMATED UTILITY WORKERS (C. I. 0.) v.
CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO. OF NEW YORK
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 342. Argued January 31, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.
Under the National Labor Relations Act, the authority to apply to
the Circuit Court of Appeals to have an employer adjudged in
contempt for failure to obey a decree enforcing an order of the
National Labor Relations Board lies exclusively in the Board
itself, acting as a public agency. A labor organization has no
standing to make such an application in virtue of having filed the
charges upon which the Board's proceedings were initiated. P. 269.
100 F. 2d 991, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

308 U. S. 541, to review the denial of an

application for a contempt order.
Mr. Louis B. Boudin for petitioner.
Mr. William L. Ransom for Consolidated Edison Co.
et al.; and Mr. Isaac Lobe Straus, with whom Mr. Claude
A. Hope was on the brief, for International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers et al., respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The National Labor Relations Board ordered the Consolidated Edison Company of New York and its affiliated companies to desist from certain labor practices

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

found to be unfair and to take certain affirmative action.
The Circuit Court of Appeals granted the Board's
petition for enforcement of the order, and its decree, as
modified, was affirmed by this Court. 305 U. S. 197.
Petitioner, Amalgamated Utility Workers, brought the
present proceeding before the Circuit Court of Appeals
to have the Consolidated Edison Company and its affiliated companies adjudged in contempt for failure to
comply with certain requirements of the decree.
The Board, in response to the motion, asserted its willingness to participate in an investigation to ascertain
whether acts in violation of the decree had been committed and suggested that the court direct such investigation as might be deemed appropriate.
The Court of Appeals denied the application upon the
ground that petitioner had "no standing to press a charge
of civil contempt, if contempt has been committed."
The court held that under the National Labor Relations
Act "the Board is the proper party to apply to the court
for an order of enforcement and to present to the court
charges that the court's order has not been obeyed." 106
F. 2d 991. In view of the importance of the question in
relation to the proper administration of the National
Labor Relations Act, we granted certiorari. 308 U. S.
541.
Petitioner contends that the National Labor Relations
Act " "creates private rights"; that the Act recognizes
the rights of labor organizations; and that it gives the
parties upon whom these rights are conferred status in
the courts for their vindication. In support of its alleged
standing, petitioner urges that under its former name
(United Electrical and Radio Workers of America) it
filed with the National Labor Relations Board charges
against the respondent companies, and that it was upon
'49 Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C. 151, et seq.

AMALGAMATED WORKERS v. EDISON CO.
261

263

Opinion of the Court.

these charges that the Board issued its complaint and
held the hearing which resulted in the order in question.
Also, that petitioner was permitted to intervene in the
proceedings before the Circuit Court of Appeals where
the companies had moved to set aside the Board's order
and the Board had moved to enforce it; and that the
petitioner had also been heard in this Court in the
certiorari proceedings for review of the decree of
enforcement.
Petitioner invokes the statement in § 1 of the Act of
"findings and policy," with respect to the effect of the
denial by employers of the right of employees to organize and to bargain collectively, and in particular the provision of § 7 2 that
"Employees shall have the right to self-organization,
to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing,
and to engage in concerted activities, for the purpose
of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or
protection."
Neither this provision, nor any other provision of the
Act, can properly be said to have "created" the right of
self-organization or of collective bargaining through representatives of the employees' own choosing. In National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel
Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 33, 34, we observed that this right
is a fundamental one; that employees "have as clear a
right to organize and select their representatives for lawful purposes" as the employer has "to organize its business and select its own officers and agents"; that discrimination and coercion "to prevent the free exercise of the
right of employees to self-organization and representation" was a proper subject for condemnation by competent legislative authority. We noted that "long ago"
'29 U. S. C. 157.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

we had stated the reason for labor organizations,-that
through united action employees might have "opportunity to deal on an equality with their employer," referring
to what we had said in American Steel Foundries v. TriCity Central Council, 257 U. S. 184, 209. And in recognition of this right, we concluded that Congress could
safeguard it in the interest of interstate commerce and
seek to make appropriate collective action "an instrument
of peace rather than of strife." To that end Congress
enacted the National Labor Relations Act.
To attain its object Congress created a particular
agency, the National Labor Relations Board, and established a special procedure. The aim, character and scope
of that special procedure are determinative of the question now before us. Within the range of its constitutional power, Congress was entitled to determine what
remedy it would provide, the way that remedy should be
sought, the extent to which it should be afforded, and the
means by which it should be made effective.
Congress declared that certain labor practices should
be unfair, but it prescribed a particular method by which
such practices should be ascertained and prevented. By
the express terms of the Act, the Board was made the
exclusive agency for that purpose. Section 10 (a)
provides:'
"The Board is empowered, as hereinafter provided, to
prevent any person from engaging in any unfair labor
practice (listed in section 8) affecting commerce. This
power shall be exclusive, and shall not be affected by any
other means of adjustment or prevention that has been
or may be established by agreement, code, law, or
otherwise."
The Act then sets forth a definite and restricted course
of procedure. A charge of an unfair labor practice may
'29 U. S. C. 160 (a).

AMALGAMATED WORKERS v. EDISON CO.
261

265

Opinion of the Court.

be presented to the Board, but the person or group
making the charges does not become the actor in the
proceeding. It is the Board, and the Board alone or its
designated agent, which has power to issue its complaint
against the person charged with the unfair labor practice.
If complaint is issued, there must be a hearing before the
Board or a member thereof or its agent. The person
against whom the complaint is issued may answer and
produce testimony. Other persons may be allowed to
intervene and present testimony, but only in the discretion of the Board, or its member or agent conducting
the hearing. § 10 (b).' The hearing is under the control
of the Board. The determination whether or not the
person named in the complaint has engaged or is engaging in the unfair labor practice rests with the Board. If
the Board is of the opinion that the unfair labor practice
has been shown, the Board must state its findings of fact
and issue its "cease and desist" order with such affirmative requirements as will effectuate the policy of the Act.
§ 10 (c).,
So far, it is apparent that Congress has entrusted to
the Board exclusively the prosecution of the proceeding
by its own complaint, the conduct of the hearing, the adjudication and the granting of appropriate relief. The
Board as a public agency acting in the public interest,
not any private person or group, not any employee or
group of employees, is chosen as the instrument to assure
protection from the described unfair conduct in order to
remove obstructions to interstate commerce.
When the Board has made its order, the Board alone is
authorized to take proceedings to enforce it. For that
purpose the Board is empowered to petition the Circuit
Court of Appeals for a decree of enforcement. The court
'29 U. S. C. 160 (b).
'29 U. S. C. 160 (c).

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

is to proceed upon notice to those against whom the order
runs and with appropriate hearing. If the court, upon
application by either party, is satisfied that additional
evidence should be taken, it may order the Board, its
member or agent, to take it. The Board may then modify
its findings of fact and make new findings. The jurisdiction conferred upon the court is exclusive and its decree
is final save as it may be reviewed in the customary manner. § 10 (e).' Again, the Act gives no authority for any
proceeding by a private person or group, or by any employee or group of employees, to secure enforcement of
the Board'S order. The vindication of the desired freedom of employees is thus confided by the Act, by reason
of the recognized public interest, to the public agency
the Act creates. Petitioner emphasizes the opportunity
afforded to private persons by § 10 (f).' But that opportunity is given to a person aggrieved by a final order
of the Board which has granted or denied in whole or in
part the relief sought. That is, it is an opportunity afforded to contest a final order of the Board, not to enforce
it. The, procedure on such a contest before the Circuit
Court of Appeals is assimilated to that provided in § 10
(e) when the Board seeks an enforcement of its order.
But that assimilation does not change the nature of the
proceeding under § 10 (f), which seeks not to require
compliance with the Board's order but to overturn it.
What Congress said at the outset, that the power of
the Board to prevent any unfair practice as defined in
the Act is exclusive, is thus fully carried out at every
stage of the proceeding. The text of the Act is so clear
in this respect that there is no need to comment upon
its legislative history. But this puts in a strong light the
'29 U. S. C. 160 (e).
'29 U. S. C. 160 (f).

AMALGAMATED WORKERS v. EDISON CO.
261

267

Opinion of the Court.

legislative intent. In the Senate, the Committee on Education and Labor in its report on the bill said: 8
"Section 10 (a) gives the National Labor Relations
Board exclusive jurisdiction to prevent and redress unfair labor practices, and, taken in conjunction with section 14, establishes clearly that this bill is paramount
over other laws that might touch upon similar subject
matters. Thus it is intended to dispel the confusion resulting from dispersion of authority and to establish a
single paramount administrative or quasi-judicial authority in connection with the development of the Federal American law regarding collective bargaining."
And the Committee on Labor of the House of Representatives in its report stated: '
"The Board is empowered, according to the procedure
provided in section 10, to prevent any person from engaging in any unfair labor practice listed in section 8 'affecting commerce', as that term is defined in section 2 (7).
This power is vested exclusively in the Board and is not
to be affected by any other means of adjustment or prevention. The Board is thus made the paramount agency
for dealing with the unfair labor practices described in
the bill."
After referring to the suitable adaptation of the
Board's orders to the needs of particular cases, and especially to the power to reinstate employees with or without
back pay, the Committee continued:
"No private right of action is contemplated. Essentially the unfair labor practices listed are matters of public concern, by their nature and consequences, present or
potential; the proceeding is in the name of the Board,
upon the Board's formal complaint. The form of in8Sen. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st sess., p. 15.

* H. R. Rep. No. 972, 74th Cong., 1st sess., p. 21.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

junctive and affirmative order is necessary to effectuate
the purpose of the bill to remove obstructions to interstate commerce which are by the law declared to be
detrimental to the public weal."
In both Houses of Congress, the Committees were careful to say that the procedure provided by the bill was
analogous to that set up by the Federal Trade Commission Act, § 5,10 which was deemed to be "familiar to all
students of administrative law." That procedure, which
was found to be prescribed in the public interest as distinguished from provisions intended to afford remedies
to private persons, was fully discussed by this Court in
Federal Trade Commission v. Klesner, 280 U. S. 19,
25, where it was said:
"Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act does
not provide private persons with an administrative
remedy for private wrongs. The formal complaint is
brought in the Commission's name; the prosecution is
wholly that of the Government; and it bears the entire
expense of the prosecution. A person who deems himself aggrieved by the use of an unfair method of competition is not given the right to institute before the Commission a complaint against the alleged wrongdoer. Nor
may the Commission authorize him to do so. He may
of course bring the matter to the Commission's attention
and request it to file a complaint. But a denial of his
request is final. And if the request is granted and a
proceeding is instituted, he does not become a party to it
or have any control over it."
That sort of procedure concerning unfair competition
was contrasted with that provided by the Interstate Commerce Act in relation to unjust discrimination. We said
that "in their bearing upon private rights" they are
"wholly dissimilar." The Interstate Commerce Act im1 38 Stat. 719, 15 U. S. C. 45.

AMALGAMATED WORKERS v. EDISON CO.
261

269

Opinion of the Court.

poses upon the carrier many duties and creates in the
individual corresponding rights. For the violation of the
private right it affords "a private administrative remedy."
The interested person can file as of right a complaint
before the Interstate Commerce Commission and the carrier is required to make answer. We said that the Federal Trade Commission Act "contains no such features."
Id., p. 26. The present Act, drawn in analogy to the
Federal Trade Commission Act, contains no such
features.
As Congress has in this instance created a public agency
entrusted by the terms of its creation with the exclusive
authority for the enforcement of the provisions of the
Act, decisions dealing with the legal obligations arising
under the Railway Labor Act " cannot be regarded as
apposite. Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood
of Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 569, 570; Virginian
Railway Co. v. System FederationNo. 40, 300 U. S. 515,
543, 544.
We think that the provision of the National Labor
Relations Act conferring exclusive power upon the Board
to prevent any unfair labor practice, as defined,-a power
not affected by any other means of "prevention that has
been or may be established by agreement, code, law, or
otherwise"-necessarily embraces exclusive authority to
institute proceedings for the violation of the court's
decree directing enforcement. The decree in no way
alters, but confirms, the position of the Board as the enforcing authority. It is the Board's order on behalf of
the public that the court enforces. It is the Board's
right to make that order that the court sustains. The
Board seeks enforcement as a public agent, not to give
effect to a "private administrative remedy." Both the
order and the decree are aimed at the prevention of the
" 45 U. S. C. 151. See 50 Harvard Law Review 1089, 1090.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

unfair labor practice. If the decree of enforcement is
disobeyed, the unfair labor practice is still not prevented.
The Board still remains as the sole authority to secure
that prevention. The appropriate procedure to that end
is to ask the court to punish the violation of its decree as
a contempt. As the court has no jurisdiction to enforce
the order at the suit of any private person or group of
persons, we think it is clear that the court cannot entertain a petition for violation of its decree of enforcement
save as the Board presents it. As the Conference Report upon the bill stated,12 in case the unfair labor practice is resumed, "there will be immediately available to
the Board an existing court decree to serve as a basis for
contempt proceedings."
The order of the Court of Appeals denying petitioner's
motion is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration and decision of this cause.

MINNESOTA EX REL. PEARSON v.
COURT OF RAMSEY COUNTY

'PROBATE
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 394. Argued February 6, 7, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.
Under a Minnesota statute a person may be subjected to a proceeding akin to lunacy proceedings with a view to his restraint if
proven to be of a "psychopathic personality." In a prohibition
proceeding the State Supreme Court construed the statute as
intended to include those persons who, by a habitual course of
misconduct in sexual matters, have evidenced an utter lack of
power to control their 'sexual impulses and who, as a result, are
likely to attack or otherwise inflict injury, loss, pain or other evil
"Conference Report, Cong. Rec., 74th Cong., 1st sess., pt. 9, p.
10,299.

