SOUTH CHICAGO CO. v. BASSETT.
242

251

Syllabus.

striction on execution may as a practical matter deprive
it of utility, since funds of petitioner appear to be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States and payments and other obligations are made through the Chief
Disbursing Officer of the Treasury.1 3 But that is an inherent limitation, under this statutory scheme, on the
legal remedies which Congress has provided. And since
respondent obtains its right to sue from Congress, it necessarily must take it subject to such restrictions as have
been imposed. The fact that execution may prove futile
is one of the notorious incidents of litigation, as is the
fact that execution is not an indispensable adjunct of
the judicial process."
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
SOUTH CHICAGO COAL & DOCK CO. ET AL. V.
BASSETT, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 262.

FOR THE

Argued January 11, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.

1. In providing by the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act
for payment by employers of compensation for injuries or death
suffered by employees engaged in maritime employment on vessels
in navigable waters, Congress exerted its constitutional power to
modify the admiralty law. P. 256.
" Fifth Annual Report, Federal Housing Administration (1938),
p. 157.
' See Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 263;
Commonwealth Finance Corp. v. Landis, 261 F. 440, 443-444. Cf.
Pauchogue Land Corp. v. Long Island State Park Comm'n, 243 N. Y.
15; 152 N. E. 451; New South Wales v. Bardolph, 52 Commonwealth L. Rep. 455.

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

309 U. S.

2. The classification excepting from the Act a "master or member
of a crew of any vessel," § 3 (a) (1), was within that power.
P. 256.
3. The Act applies to those who serve on vessels as laborers, whose
work is of the sort performed by longshoremen and harbor workers,
and who are thus distinguished from those employees who are
naturally and primarily on board to aid in navigation. P. 257.
4. In so far as the decision whether an injured employee was or was
not a "member of the crew" turns on a question of fact, the
authority to determine is conferred by the Act on the deputy
commissioner, and his finding, if sustained by evidence, is conclusive and must be accepted by the District Court without
attempting a new trial. P. 257.
5. The legal meaning of the word "crew" must be determined with
reference to the context and purpose of the particular statute in
which the word is used. P. 258.
6. The fact that the boat's captain, to make up the complement of
"deckhands" required by a certificate of inspection, included the
employee whose status under this Act is in question does not fix
his status as that of a member of the crew. The question concerns
his actual duties. P. 260.
7. Evidence held sufficient to sustain a finding by a deputy commissioner that the person on account of whose death compensation was
claimed under the above-mentioned Act was not a member of the
crew. P. 260.
104 F. 2d 522, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 532, to review the reversal of a
judgment of the District Court vacating an award under
the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act..
Mr. Robert J. Fononie, with whom Mr. Hayes McKinney was on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson and Messrs. Melvin H. Siegel, Paul A.
Sweeney, and Aaron B. Holman were on the brief, for
respondent.

SOUTH CHICAGO CO. v. BASSETT.
251

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
John Schumann, an employee of petitioner, South
Chicago Coal & Dock Company, was drowned while
serving his employer on a vessel in navigable waters of
the United States. His widow was awarded compensation by the deputy commissioner under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.' The
deputy commissioner found that decedent was performing
services on the vessel as a laborer and fell from the vessel
into the water. The employer and its surety brought
suit in the District Court to restrain the enforcement of'
the award, contending that decedent was employed as a
member of the crew and hence that compensation was
not payable. The District Court granted a trial de novo
and finding that the decedent was a member of the crew
vacated the award.
The Court of Appeals found that the evidence before
the District Court was similar to that heard by the
deputy commissioner; that the facts were not in dispute;
that the District Court in reviewing the finding of the
deputy commissioner was precluded from weighing the
evidence, being required to examine the record and ascertain whether there was any evidence to support the commissioner's finding. Holding that there was such evidence, the Court of Appeals reversed the decree of the
District Court and directed the dismissal of the bill of
complaint. 104 F. 2d 522. Because of an alleged conflict with a decision of the Court of Appeals of the Fifth
Circuit in the case of Maryland Casualty Co. v. Lawson,
94 F. 2d 190, we granted certiorari, 308 U. S. 532.
'44 Stat. 1424; 33 U. S. C. and U. S. C. Supp. IV, §§ 901, et seq

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

The statute provides specifically in § 3 as to "Coverage," that no compensation shall be payable in respect
of the disability or death of a "master or member of a
crew of any vessel." 2 And these persons were excluded
from the definition of the term employee. § 2 (3).'
It appears that the vessel was a lighter of 312 net tons
used for fueling steamboats and other marine equipment.
It was licensed to operate in the Calumet River and
Harbor and in the Indiana River and Harbor. The Court
of Appeals thus summarized its operations: "It supplied
coal to other vessels on their order, each operation consuming only a couple of hours. It had no sleeping or
eating quarters. Its certificates of inspection required
that 'Included in the entire crew hereinafter specified
and designated there must be 1 licensed master and
pilot, 1 licensed chief engineer, three seamen, 1 fireman'.
If deceased were counted as a member of the crew, the
full complement of the ship was present. Otherwise
not." The captain testified before the deputy commissioner that he had five men on the boat with him, one
'The entire text of § 3 is as follows:
"Sec. 3. Coverage.-(a) Compensation shall be payable under this
chapter in respect of disability or death of an employee, but only if
the disability or death results from. an injury occurring upon the navigable waters of the United States (including any drydock) and if
recovery for the disability or death through workmen's compensation
proceedings may not validly be provided by State law. No compensation shall be payable in respect of the disability or death of"(1) A master or member of a crew of any vessel, nor any person
engaged by the master to load or unload or repair any small vessel
under eighteen tons net; or
"(2) An officer or employee of the United States or any agency.
thereof or of any State or foreign government, or of any political
subdivision thereof.
"(b) No compensation shall be payable if the injury was occasioned
solely by the intoxication of the employee or by the willful intention
of the employee to injure or kill himself or another." 33 U. S. C. 903.
'33 U. S. C. 902 (3).

SOUTH CHICAGO CO. v. BASSETT.
251

Opinion of the Court.

engineer, fireman and three "deckhands," the decedent
being one of the latter. The Court of Appeals described
his chief task as "facilitating the flow of coal from his
boat to the vessel being fueled-removing obstructions
to the flow with a stick. He performed such additional
tasks as throwing the ship's rope in releasing or making
the boat fast. He performed no navigation duties. He
occasionally did some cleaning of the boat. He did no
work while the boat was en route from dock to the vessel
to be fueled." The Court of Appeals thought it significant that his only duty relating to navigation was the
incidental task of throwing the ship's line; that his primary duty was to free the coal if it stuck in the hopper
while being discharged into the fueled vessel while both
boats were at rest; that he had no duties while the boat
was in motion; that he was paid an hourly wage; that he
had no "articles"; that he slept at home and boarded off
ship; that he was called very early in the morning each
day as he was wanted; that while he had worked only
three weeks, and it might have been possible that he
would have been retained for years to come, his employment was somewhat akin to temporary employment.
In Nogueira v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 281 U. S.
128, we had occasion to consider the purpose and scope of
the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation
Act. Its general scheme was to provide compensation
to employees engaged in maritime employment, except
as stated, for disability or death resulting from injury
occurring upon the navigable waters of the United States
where recovery through workmen's compensation proceedings might not validly be provided by state law. We
had held that one engaged as a stevedore in loading a
ship lying in port in navigable waters was performing a
maritime service and that the rights and liabilities of the
parties were matters within the admiralty jurisdiction.
Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52. But

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

the Court had also held that in the case of a longshoreman who was injured on the land, although engaged in
unloading a vessel, the local law governed and hence the
workmen's compensation law of the State applied. State
Industrial Commission v. Nordenholt Corporation, 259
U. S. 263. The distinction had thus been maintained between injuries on land and those suffered by persons
engaged in maritime employment on a vessel in navigable
waters. As to the latter, no doubt was entertained of
the power of Congress to modify the admiralty law and
to provide for the payment by employers of compensation.4 And in thus providing, Congress had constitutional authority to define the classes of such employees
who should receive compensation and to exclude those
described in § 3. Nogueira v. New York, N. H. & H. R.
Co., supra.
The legislative history of the exception now before us
throws light upon the intention of Congress. For those
employees who are entitled to compensation, the remedy
under the Act is exclusive. § 5.' This made inapplicable
to such employees the provision of § 33 of the Merchants
Marine Act (called the Jones Act) which carried to "seamen" at their election the benefit of the provisions of
the Federal Employers' Liability Act." The bill, which
became the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, was at one stage amended so as to include
a master and members of a crew of a vessel owned by a
'See Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 457, 458; The Lottawanna, 21
Wall. 558, 577; Butler v. Boston Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527, 556,
557; In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, 14; Atlantic Transport Co. v.
Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 60, 62; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244
U. S. 205, 215; Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S. 219, 227, 228;
Panama Railroad Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 386, 388; Nogueira
v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 281 U. S. 128, 138.
33 U. S. C. 905.
41 Stat. 1007.

SOUTH CHICAGO CO. v. BASSETT.
251

Opinion of the Court.

citizen of the United States." They preferred however
to remain outside the compensation provisions and thus
to retain the advantages of their election under the Jones
Act, and the bill was changed accordingly so as to exempt
"seamen." Then, in its final passage, the words "a master or member of a crew" were substituted for "seamen." 8
We think that this substitution has an important significance here. For we had held that longshoremen engaged on a vessel at a dock in navigable waters, in the
work of loading or. unloading, were "seamen." International Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50;
Northern Coal Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142. And, also,
that such seamen if injured on a vessel in navigable
waters, unlike one injured on land, could not have the
benefit of a state workmen's compensation act. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205. We think it is
clear that Congress in finally adopting the phrase "a
master or member of a crew" in making its exception,
intended to leave entitld to compensation all those
various sorts of longshoremen and harbor workers who
were performing labor on a vessel 9 and to whom state
compensation statutes were inapplicable. The question
is whether the decedent in this instance fell within that
class.
So far as the decision that this employee, who was at
work on this vessel in navigable waters when he sustained
his injuries, was or was not "a member of a crew" turns on
questions of fact, the authority to determine such questions has been confided by Congress to the deputy com'House Rep. No. 1767, 69th Cong., 2d sess., pp. 1, 2, 20.
'Cong. Rec., 69th Cong., 2d sess., vol. 68, pt. 5, pp. 5402, 5403,
5908; Nogueira v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 281 U. S. 128, 136.
'Except where they are engaged "to load or unload or repair any
small vessel under eighteen tons net." § 3 (a) (1), 33 U. S. C.
903 (a)(1).
215234°-40-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

missioner.1 ° Hence the Court of Appeals correctly ruled
that his finding, if there was evidence to support it, was
conclusive and that it was the duty of the District Court
to ascertain whether it was so supported and, if so, to give
it effect without attempting a retrial. We have so held
with respect to the conclusiveness of the finding of the
deputy commissioner that an injury to an employee
arose "out of and in the course of the employment,"
Voehl v. Indemnity Insurance Co., 288 U. S. 162, 166;
as to the finding of the dependency of a claimant for
compensation, L'Hote v. Crowell, 286 U. S. 528, The
Admiral Peoples, 295 U. S. 649, 653, 654; and as to the
finding that the employee had committed suicide and
hence that compensation was not payable, Del Vecchio
v. Bowers, 296 U. S. 280, 287. In the Del Vecchio case
the question was with respect to the application of the
exception made by paragraph (b) of § 3 with respect to
"Coverage," and we see no reason for a different view as
to the application of paragraph (a) (1) of the same
section.
Petitioners urge that the question whether the decedent was a member of a "crew" was a question of law.
That is, that upon the undisputed facts the decedent
must be held as a matter of law to have been a member
of a "crew" as distinguished from a longshoreman or
laborer at work upon the vessel. We are unable so to
conclude.
The word "crew" does not have an absolutely unvarying legal significance. As Mr. Justice Story said in
United States v. Winn, 3 Sumn. 209," the general sense
of the word crew is "equivalent to ship's company"
which would embrace all the officers as well as the common seamen. But it was observed that the laws upon
o33 U. S. C. 919 (a), 921.

' 28 Fed. Cas. 733, Case No. 16,740.

SOUTH CHICAGO CO. v. BASSETT.
251

Opinion of the Court.

maritime subjects sometimes used the word crew in that
general sense and "sometimes in other senses, more limited
and restrained." "It is sometimes used to comprehend
all persons composing the ship's company, including the
master; sometimes to comprehend the officers and common seamen, excluding the master; and sometimes to
comprehend the common seamen only, excluding the
master and officers." It was therefore deemed necessary
to consider the context of the particular use of the term
and the object to be accomplished by the enactment under consideration. In The Bound Brook, 146 F. 160, 164,
it was said that "When the 'crew' of a vessel is referred
to, those persons are naturally and primarily meant who
are on board her aiding in her navigation, without reference to the nature of the arrangement under which they
are on board." Judge Hough in The Buena Ventura,
243 F. 797, 799, thought that statement was a fair summary, and in his view one who served the ship "in her
navigation" was a member of the "crew." Id., p. 800.
See, also, Seneca Gravel Co. v. McManigal, 65 F. 2d 779.
Recently, in considering the application of the Jones
Act to "any seaman," we adverted to the "range of variation" in the use of the word "crew," and it was again
emphasized that what concerned us in that case, which
had relation to the status of a "master," was "not the
scope of the class of seamen at other times and in other
contexts." We said that our concern there was "to define the meaning for the purpose of a particular statute
which must be read in the light of the mischief to be
corrected and the end to be attained." Warner v. Goltra,
293 U. S. 155, 158.
That is our concern here in construing this particular
statute-the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act-with appropriate regard to its distinctive
aim. We find little aid in considering the use of the term

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

"crew" in other statutes having other purposes. This Act,
as we have seen, was to provide compensation for a class
of employees at work on a vessel in navigable waters
who, although they might be classed as seamen (International Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, supra), were still
regarded as distinct from members of a "crew." They
were persons serving on vessels, to be sure, but their service was that of laborers, of the sort performed by longshoremen and harbor workers and thus distinguished from
those employees on the vessel who are naturally and primarily on board to aid in her navigation. See De Wald v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 71 F. 2d 810; Diomede v. Lowe,
87 F. 2d 296; Moore Dry Dock Co. v. Pillsbury, 100 F. 2d
245.
Regarding the word "crew" in this statute as referring
to the latter class, we think there was evidence to support
the finding of the deputy commissioner. The fact that
the certificate of inspection called for three "deckhands"
and that the captain included the decedent to make up
that complement is not controlling. The question concerns his actual duties. These duties, as the Court of Appeals said, did not pertain to navigation, aside from the
incidental task of throwing the ship's rope or making the
boat fast, a service of the sort which could readily be
performed or aided by a harbor worker. What the court
considered as supporting the finding of the deputy commissioner was that the primary duty of the decedent was
to facilitate the flow of coal to the vessel being fueled,
that he had no duties while the boat was in motion, that
he slept at home and boarded off ship and was called each
day as he was wanted and was paid an hourly wage.
Workers of that sort on harbor craft may appropriately
be regarded as "in the position of longshoremen or other
casual workers on the water." Scheffler v. Moran Towing
Co., 68 F. 2d 11, 12. Even if it could be said that the
evidence permitted conflicting inferences, we think that

AMALGAMATED WORKERS v. EDISON CO.

261

Opinion of the Court.

251

there was enough to sustain the deputy commissioner's
ruling.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.
AMALGAMATED UTILITY WORKERS (C. I. 0.) v.
CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO. OF NEW YORK
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 342. Argued January 31, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.
Under the National Labor Relations Act, the authority to apply to
the Circuit Court of Appeals to have an employer adjudged in
contempt for failure to obey a decree enforcing an order of the
National Labor Relations Board lies exclusively in the Board
itself, acting as a public agency. A labor organization has no
standing to make such an application in virtue of having filed the
charges upon which the Board's proceedings were initiated. P. 269.
100 F. 2d 991, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

308 U. S. 541, to review the denial of an

application for a contempt order.
Mr. Louis B. Boudin for petitioner.
Mr. William L. Ransom for Consolidated Edison Co.
et al.; and Mr. Isaac Lobe Straus, with whom Mr. Claude
A. Hope was on the brief, for International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers et al., respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The National Labor Relations Board ordered the Consolidated Edison Company of New York and its affiliated companies to desist from certain labor practices

