KERSH LAKE DIST. v. JOHNSON.
Syllabus.

KERSH LAKE DRAINAGE DISTRICT
JOHNSON.

ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 595.

Argued March 8, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

1. A decision by the highest court of a State as to the jurisdiction,
under the state law, of an inferior court of the State, is binding
here. P. 489.
2. In a suit in a state court of Arkansas brought by the commissioners of a drainage district of that State to collect drainage taxes,
the suit having been instituted pursuant to a federal court decree
compelling extension and collection of such taxes to satisfy certificates of indebtedness issued by the district, prior state chancery
court decrees adjudging a landowner's drainage taxes fully paid and
his lands free from any further liability therefor were treated as
res judicata. Held:
(1) Certificate holders were not deprived of their property
without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, even though they were not parties to and had no notice of
the chancery court proceedings. Pp. 490-491.
The certificate holders were charged with notice of and bound
by relevant statutes of the State in existence when the certificates
were issued. Those statutes provided for determination of proportionate liabilities of lands in the district by chancery proceedings between the commissioners and landowners, with no requirement of notice to creditors of the district. The commissioners as
parties to the proceedings in the chancery court had appropriately
asserted the lien for benefit of the certificate holders, and the latter
are bound by the decrees.
(2) Issues of fraud and collusion in this case raise no questions
which the highest court of the State was not competent finally to
decide; and the decision of that court that no fraud or collusion
was shown is accepted here. P. 492.
(3) Irrespective of whether the drainage district was empowered
to represent the landowners when the extension of taxes as a
whole was ordered, the federal court judgment did not foreclose
personal defenses which individual landowners might plead in suits
for collection; and the refusal of the state court to accept the
federal court judgment as- determinative of the individual land-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioners.

309 U. S.

owner's liability did not deny full faith and credit to such judgment. P. 492.
198 Ark. 743; 131 S. W. 2d 620, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 642, to review the reversal of a de-

cree against a landowner in a suit to enforce collection
of drainage district taxes.
Messrs. George B. Rose and George Rose Smith for
petitioners.
A state court may not enjoin the collection of a tax
ordered by a federal court to be levied and collected for
the purpose of paying a judgment rendered therein.
Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166; United States v.
Council of Keokuk, 6 Wall. 514; Supervisors v. Durant,
9 Wall. 415; Mayor v. Lord, 9 Wall. 409; Hawley v. Fairbanks, 108 U.. S. 543; Gaines v. Springer, 46 Ark. 502.
The court below denied full faith and credit to the
judgment of the federal court. The plea that the state
court injunctions barred the collection of the taxes had
been overruled by the federal court. Art. IV, ยง 1; paragraph 2 of Art. VI of the Const.; R. S. ยง 905; Chandler v.
Peketz, 297 U. S. 609; Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U. S. 165;
Knights of Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U. S. 30-33; Hancock
National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640; Metcalf v.
Watertown, 153 U. S. 671; Dupaseur v. Rochereau, 21
Wall. 130, 134; Crescent City Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120
U. S. 141, 146; Pittsburgh Railway Co. v. Long Island
L. & T. Co., 172 U. S. 493, 507; Des Moines Nay. & R.
Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552, 559; Embry v.
Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, 10.
The plaintiffs were deprived of their property without
due process of law by the ruling that judgments in suits
of which the creditors had no notice could be pleaded in
bar of the judgment "of the federal court. Moreover, the
suits in the state court were collusive. The chief beneficiaries were the Commissioners themselves, who took

KERSH LAKE DIST. v. JOHNSON.
485

Opinion of the Court.

no appeal, although the state supreme court had many
times decided that the benefits bore interest, and would
certainly have reversed. Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S.
274; Hagar v. Reclamation Dist. No. 108, 111 U. S. 701;
Ochoa v. Hernandez, 230 U. S. 139; Scott v. McNeal,
154 U. S. 34; Hale v. Finch, 104 U. S. 261; Wabash
Railroad v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 39; Empire v,
Darlington, 101 U. S. 87; Brooklyn v. Insurance Co., 99
U. S. 362.
Mr. Walter G. Riddick, with whom Mr. Charles T.
Coleman was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE, BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Kersh Lake Drainage District was organized, in 1912,
under the general drainage law of Arkansas.' An assessment of the value of benefits to accrue to each of the
tracts of land embraced in the District was duly made,
upon the basis of which annual levies were extended
against each tract. And the District issued interest bearing certificates of indebtedness in payment of construction work done for it by contract.
Respondent Johnson, a landowner in the District,
brought suit against the District and its Commissioners
in the Lincoln Chancery Court of the State of Arkansas
in order to establish that he had fully paid the share of
benefit taxes apportioned to his land and was therefore
entitled under Arkansas law to have his land declared
free from any further drainage tax liability. In 1931,
that state court rendered its final decree to the effect that
the lien of the District for such taxes had already been
"fully satisfied and released," and enjoined further extension of drainage taxes against his lands. In 1932, the
same state court rendered a like decree in favor of W. A.
Fish and other named landowners of the District.
' Acts of Ark. 1909, p. 829.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

November 1, 1935, a judgment against the District was
obtained by certificate holders in the federal court for the
Eastern District of Arkansas. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 2 To enforce their judgment, these creditors then instituted proceedings in the same Federal
District Court, for mandatory injunction to require the
appropriate county clerks to extend drainage benefit taxes
for the District upon their tax books; to require county
officials to collect these taxes; and to provide that "if any
property owners fail to pay their drainage tax the defendant, Kersh Lake Drainage District, and its Commissioners
be required to institute suit for the collection of the delinquent taxes, and to, prosecute the same with due diligence to a conclusion, and to see that the delinquent
lands are sold promptly under the decrees of foreclosure, . . ." Answering, the District set up among other
defenses that "a large number of tracts of land in the
District have fully paid the entire value of assessed benefits against said lands and that said property owners
obtained a decree in the Lincoln Chancery Court in the
case of W. A. Fish, et al. v. Kersh Lake Drainage District
on June 15, 1932, enjoining and restraining the Commissioners of the defendant District from levying or extending any tax against those lands, the assessed benefits of
which have been fully paid."
The District Court decreed that a mandatory injunction issue compelling the "County Clerks and County
Collectors to perform their duties in the collection of the
drainage taxes upon the lands in suit"; that there be extended taxes "of six and one-half per cent of the benefits
assessed against each tract of land . . . until the whole
of this decree has been satisfied"; that the "Commissioners . . . be required to institute suits for the collection
of all delinquent taxes of said District, and to prosecute
the same with due diligence to a conclusion, . . ."; and
2 85

F. 2d 643.

KERSH LAKE DIST. v. JOHNSON.
485

Opinion of the Court.

that "the said Commissioners are deemed receivers of this
court . . ." And the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
Pursuant to this mandatory injunction, the drainage
taxes were extended on the tax books but respondent
Johnson and other landowners in whose favor the decrees
of the Lincoln Chancery Court had been rendered, refused
to pay. Suit for collection was filed against their lands
in the Lincoln Chancery Court by the Commissioners.
In reliance upon the 1931 and 1932 State Chancery Court
decrees as final determinations that the assessments apportioned to their respective tracts of lands had been discharged, pleas of res judicata were interposed by the landowners. Referring to this answer of the landowners, the
Commissioners amended their complaint and alleged (1)
that the state court decrees of 1931 and 1932 were void
because certificate holders had not been made parties, and
(2) that the certificate holders' judgment against the District and the mandatory injunction decree of the federal
court were "res judicata of all the questions . . . raised
by the" landowners. The trial court decided against the
landowners, but the Supreme Court of Arkansas reversed
and held that the unappealed Chancery Court decrees in
1931 and 1932 amounted to conclusive adjudications that
the particular lands here involved were responsible for
no further benefit taxes, thus sustaining the landowners'
pleas of res judicata.4
First. The unappealed 1931 and 1932 Decrees of the
Lincoln Chancery Court of the State of Arkansas.
As stated by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, the general
jurisdiction of the Lincoln Chancery Court, under the state
law, to render the 1931 and 1932 decrees is "acknowledged," ' and this determination by the state's highest
court is binding upon us. However, petitioners' argu'92 F. 2d 783.
"198 Ark. 743; 131 S. W. 2d 620; 132 S. W. 2d 658.
'Cf. Protho v. Williams, 147 Ark. 535, 547; 229 S. W. 38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

ment is that these decrees were void because certificate
holders were not made parties in and had no notice of
the Chancery proceedings. Therefore, they contend that
in giving effect to the state court decrees and treating
them as res judicata in the present proceeding the court
below deprived certificate holders of their property without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.6 Petitioners also add the contention that
the 1932 state court decree was "collusive as a matter of
law."
Although the Drainage District was not in terms legislatively declared to be a corporation, its powers and
limitations were similar to those of corporations and its7
Commissioners were comparable to corporate directors.
Among the duties of the Commissioners-as provided by
the very statutt upon which the certificates involved here
rest-were those of protecting and enforcing creditors'
rights on obligations issued by the District.' And the
Commissioners in 1931 and 1932 litigated with the landowners the disputed question of proportionate amounts
of taxes due the District by virtue of drainage benefits
received by the particular tracts here in question.
' Because of this and the further contention that the Supreme Court
of Arkansas had denied full faith and credit to the judgments of the
Federal District Court, certiorari was granted.
'See, e. g., reference to "the board of directors," Acts of Ark. 1909,
p. 849.
'The Act of 1909 set up detailed standards for creation and control
of the District; provided for management of District affairs by a
Board of Commissioners under outlined supervision by Arkansas
courts; and intrusted the Commissioners with the conduct and control of litigation for the collection and enforcement of unpaid benefits
against lands in the District. Such litigation was required to be conducted in the State Chancery Court having jurisdiction in the County
where the particular lands were located; and the lands covered by the
1931-1932 Lincoln Chancery Court decrees were located in Lincoln
County. Arkansas Acts 1909, p. 829.

KERSH LAKE DIST. v. JOHNSON.
485

Opinion of the Court.

When these certificates were issued, purchasers were
charged with notice of and bound by Arkansas statutes
in existence when, and pursuant to which, the debt was
contracted and which provided for determination of the
proportionate liabilities of lands in the District by Chancery proceedings between the Commissioners and landowners with no requirement of notice to creditors of the
District.' Thus, the very statutory plan from which the
certificate obligations sprang contemplated that the Commissioners should represent the collective and corporate
interests of the District, in litigation between the District
and a landowner involving matters personal to the landowner.
These certificate holders were not entitled to be made
parties in the Lincoln Chancery proceedings, just as in
practice creditors of a corporation are not, unless otherwise provided by statute, made parties in a suit between
a stockholder and the corporation to determine liability
on a stock subscription, between the corporation and a
third person to recover corporate assets, or in a suit
brought against the corporation by creditors, stockholders
or officers. It has been held that bondholders are not
necessary parties to and are bound by the decree-even
if adverse to their interests--in litigation wherein an indenture trustee under a bond issue is a party and exercises in good faith and without neglect his contractual
authority to represent and assert the lien securing the
issue."0 And so are these petitioners bound by the decrees in the Chancery suit in which the Commissioners as
parties appropriately asserted the lien for benefit of certificate holders-unless there was fraud or collusion.
' Rees v. City of Watertown, 19 Wall. 107, 120; United States v.
County of Macon, 99 U. S. 582, 590.
"oElwell v. Fosdick, 134 U. S. 500, 512, 513; Richter v. Jerome, 123
U. S: 233, 246-7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

It is sufficient to state as to this contention that the
issues of fraud and collusion raise no questions which
the Supreme Court of Arkansas was not competent finally
to decide. And the Supreme Court of Arkansas points
out that under controlling Arkansas law the Chancery
decrees "could only have been set aside on appeal or by
direct action to annul them on the ground of fraud, .and
as we. have said no appeals were taken, and no fraud on
the court in which the decrees were rendered, is reflected
by this record." 11
But petitioners nevertheless insist that the state court's
chancery decrees cannot avail the landowners because
of the subsequent judgments of the Federal District
Court.
Second. The Judgments of the Federal District Court.
Petitioners pleaded the final judgments of the Federal
District Court as conclusive adjudications of the issues
raised by the landowners' defense based upon the Chancery decrees. The refusal of the court below to accept
the District Court's judgments as determinative of the
individual landowners' liabilities constituted, petitioners
claim, a denial of full faith and credit to those federal
judgments. With this contention we do not agree.
In order that the District might be afforded a basis
for suits in the state courts to recover taxes with which to
pay the judgment against it, the District Court ordered
a mandatory injunction requiring county officials to
extend on their books drainage taxes against all the lands
in the District as a whole, including those here involved.
This preliminary to state court suits in which the actual
respective liabilities of the individual landowners could
be determined was performed, and thereby this provision
of the injunction was carried out. The Commissioners
were also enjoined to file and prosecute suits in the state
"' 198 Ark. 743, 753; 131 S. W. 2d 620, 625; 132 S. W. 2d 658.

KERSH LAKE DIST. v. JOHNSON.
485

Opinion of the Court.

courts to collect all such taxes that were delinquent.
This was done. Irrespective of whether the District
was empowered to represent the landowners when the
extension of taxes as a whole was ordered, by its mandatory injunction the District Court did not attempt to
foreclose the state court from hearing all matters of personal defense which individual landowners might plead
in the suits for collection. Instead, the District Court
appropriately left for the state court's determination any12
such personal defenses available under Arkansas law.
And here the Supreme Court of Arkansas has sustained
as personal defenses the decrees of payment and discharge obtained by individual landowners in Arkansas
courts of competent jurisdiction. Accordingly, petitioners misconstrue entirely the decree of the District
Court in arguing that unless its injunction is carried
out without any reference to the prior state court decrees,
injunctions by a state court will be permitted to obstruct
the execution of a federal court's judgment.13 In view
of our construction of the mandatory injunction and the
fact that its mandates have been fully carried out, it is
unnecessary for us to consider the existence or present
vitality of the doctrine said to be established by the cases
relied upon by petitioners.;
The substantial effect of the District Court's judgments
was no more than a determination that a total balance
was still due the complaining certificate holders by the
District; that drainage taxes sufficient to discharge this
Cf. Arkansas v. St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co., 269 U. S. 172,
176; Chandler v. Peketz, 297 U. S. 609, 611.
'Petitioners rely upon Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166;
United States v. Council of Keokuk, Id., 514; The Mayor v. Lord,
9 Wall. 409; The Supervisors v. Durant, Id., 415; Hawley v. Fairbanks, 108 U. S. 543.
14 But see Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64,
78 and Ruhlin v.
New York Life Ins. Co., Id., 202, 205.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

balance should be extended on the proper county tax
books in accordance with Arkansas law; and that suits
against individual landowners be filed for judicial ascertainment of their proportionate shares of the total.
Neither the adjudication of the total liability nor the
order for extension of drainage taxes on the local tax
books was an adjudication of the varying proportionate
liabilities of the respective landowners. Determination
of these liabilities was properly left for the state court.
A decreed total liability for the District was still consistent with the principle that "when the proportion [taxable
against a particular tract] is ascertained and paid, it is
no longer or further liable. It is discharged. The residue of the tax is to be obtained from other sources." 1
These landowners were neither served with process nor
heard in either the certificate holders' suit against the
District or the mandatory injunction proceeding. No
relief against them as individuals was either sought or
adjudged. The Commissioners did represent all landowners in unsuccessfully defending the certificate holders'
suit for an adjudication of the total collective corporate
obligation of the District as an entity. In the present
suit the landowners have not asserted, and the Supreme
Court of Arkansas has not upheld, any attack upon that
judgment, which might be valid although uncollectible
against the District or any individual landowners." The
fact that the Commissioners, in the injunction proceedings against the District, unsuccessfully attempted to interpose defenses peculiar and personal to the individual
landowners cannot foreclose the individual landowners,
who were not present, from thereafter pleading a defense
otherwise valid. Certainly, the decree in the injunction
suit in the federal court would not prevent an individual
property owner from subsequently interposing the de" Rees v. City of Watertown, supra, 119-20.
" Barkley v. Levee Commission, 93 U. S. 258, 265-6.

UNITED STATES v. SHAW.
485

Statement of the Case.

fense that his property was not in fact included within
the Drainage District." Cognate personal defenses, such
as the one that a landowner's proportionate drainage tax
liability has been declared by the judgment of a competent tribunal to have been "ascertained and paid," were
not foreclosed by the Federal District Court's judgments.
The judgments of the federal court were not denied full
faith and credit by the Supreme Court of Arkansas.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the

decision

of this case.
UNITED STATES v. SHAW, ADMINISTRATOR
DE BONIS NON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 570.

Argued February 27, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

1. A suit against the United States may be brought only with
consent given, and in the courts designated, by statute. P. 500.
2. The United States, by filing a claim against an estate in a state
probate proceeding, does not subject itself to a binding, though
not enforcible, ascertainment and allowance of a cross-claim
against itself, in excess of set-off. The Thekla, 266 U. S. 328,
distinguished. Pp. 501-504.
3. By taking over the assets of the Fleet Corporation and assuming
its obligations, the United States did not waive its immunity from
suit in a state court on a counter-claim based on the corporation's
breach of contract. P. 505.
290 Mich. 311; 287 N. W. 477, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 308 U.

S. 548, to review the affirmance of

a decree in probate holding the United States indebted
to a decedent's estate on a counter-claim.
" Ocean Beach Heights, Inc. v. Brown-Crummer Investment Co.,
302 U. S. 614.
F. 2d 105.

Cf. Normandy Beach Dev. Co. v. United States, 6)

