REAL ESTATE TITLE CO. v. U. S.
Counsel for Parties.

4

have gone further and enjoined the prosecution of the
action in the state court upon the supersedeas bond is
at best only one of technical importance, as the state court
itself enjoined such proceedings pending the determination of this suit, apparently in the view that a determination herein of the invalidity of the order would dispose
of the merits.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

join in this opinion.
REAL ESTATE - LAND TITLE & TRUST CO. v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
o

No. 229.

Argued January 5, 1940.-Decided January 15, 1940.

Under the Revenue Act of 1928, ยง 23 (k), and Treasury Regulations
74, Art. 206, a deduction for obsolescence is not allowed for a plant
which has not functionally depreciated but which is a needless
duplication acquired in a voluntary business consolidation, and
which the management desires to eliminate, preferring another
which is also adequate but which can be operated with fewer
employees. Pp. 15-17.
102 F. 2d 582, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 539, to review a judgment reversing a judgment recovered in the District Court in a suit
for a refund of income taxes.

Mr. Joseph Neff Ewing, with whom Messrs. Maurice
Bower Saul and Joseph A. Lamorelle were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Arnold Raum were on the brief, for the
United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

309 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner, a Pennsylvania corporation, was formed in
October 1927 as a result of a statutory consolidation or
merger of three companies. Two of the constituent companies owned title search plants which were among the
assets acquired by petitioner as a result of the consolidation. While it was known that two title plants would be
acquired on the consolidation, there was at that time no
definite plan for their disposition. But an immediate investigation was made and it was decided to store one of
the plants in order to effect economies of operation. That
was done substantially simultaneously with the consummation of the consolidation. About two months thereafter it was decided that the plant retained in use was
adequate and that the one in storage would not be needed.
Although for a brief period some slight use appears to
have been made of the stored plant,1 it was not kept up to
date by the addition of current recordings. As a result it
had only a salvage value by October 31, 1928. Meanwhile, negotiations for its sale had been unsuccessful.
In this action petitioner seeks a refund of income taxes
for the fiscal year ended October 31, 1928, based on the
refusal of the Collector of Internal Revenue to allow a
deduction for obsolescence of this plant. It had been
carried on the books of the constituent company at $275,000 and was brought into the consolidation at $800,000.
The District Court, however, found that its value on
March 1, 1913, was $1,000,000; on October 31, 1928, $125,000-making an actual loss of $875,000, which that court
allowed as a deduction for obsolescence for the taxable
year 1928. It accordingly allowed a refund. That judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (102
' Evidence of use subsequent to the consolidation or merger is quite
tenuous, the only specific instances occurring immediately prior to
the actual consummation of the consolidation on October 31, 1927.

REAL ESTATE TITLE CO. v. U. S.
13

15

Opinion of the Court.

F. 2d 582). We granted certiorari because of the asserted
conflict of that decision with Crooks v. Kansas City Title
& Trust Co., 46 F. 2d 928.
Sec. 23 (k) of the Revenue Act of 1928 (45 Stat. 791)
allows as a deduction from gross income a "reasonable
allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property
used in the trade or business, including a reasonable
allowance for obsolescence." Admittedly, if the deduction is allowed under this provision it must be for obsolescence, as there has been no exhaustion, wear or tear of
the title plant within the meaning of the Act. Now it is
true that in the popular sense a thing which is obsolete is
one which is no longer used, a meaning which gives color
to petitioner's claim for deduction since there is no question that the title plant here involved is no longer utilized
to any degree whatsoever. But the term "allowance for
obsolescence," as used in the Act and in the Treasury
Regulations, has a narrower or more technical meaning
than that derived from the common, dictionary definition
of obsolete. The Treasury Regulations 2 state the cir2 Treasury Regulations 74, Art. 206, promulgated under the Revenue Act of 1928, provides in full:
"With respect to physical property the whole or any portion of
which is clearly shown by the taxpayer as being affected by economic
conditions that will result in its being abandoned at a future date
prior to the end of its normal useful life, so that depreciation deductions alone are insufficient to return the cost (or. other basis) at the
end of its economic term of usefulness, a reasonable deduction for
obsolescence, in addition to depreciation, nay be allowed in accordance with the facts obtaining with respect to each item of property
concerning which a claim for obsolescence is made. No deduction
for obsolescence will be permitted merely because, in the opinion of
a taxpayer, the property may become obsolete at some later date.
This allowance will be confined to such portion of the property on
which obsolescence is definitely shown to be sustained and can not be
held applicable to an entire property unless all portions thereof are
affected by the conditions to which obsolescence is found to be due."
See also Bureau of Internal Revenue Bulletin "F," January, 1931.

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

cumstances under which an allowance for obsolescence
of physical property may be allowed, viz, where such
property is "being effected by economic conditions that
will result in its being abandoned at a future date prior
to the end of its normal useful life, so that depreciation
deductions alone are insufficient to return the cost (or
other basis) at the end of its economic term of usefulness." This Court, without undertaking a comprehensive definition, has held that obsolescence for purposes
of the revenue acts "may arise from changes in the art,
shifting of business centers, loss of trade, inadequacy,
supersession, prohibitory laws and other things which,
apart from physical deterioration, operate to cause plant
elements or the plant as a whole to suffer diminution in
value." United States Cartridge Co. v. United States,
284 U. S. 511, 516. See also Burnet v. Niagara Falls
Brewing Co., 282 U. S. 648, 654. Such specific examples
illustrate the type of "economic conditions" whose effect
on physical property is recognized as obsolescence by the
Treasury Regulations. Others could be mentioned which
similarly cause or contribute to the relentless march of
physical property to the junk pile. But in general, obsolescence under the Act connotes functional depreciation,
3
as it does in accounting and engineering terminology.
4
More than non-use or disuse is necessary to establish it.
To be sure, reasons of economy may cause a management
to discard a title plant either where it has become outmoded by improved devices or where it is acquired as a
duplicate and therefbre is useless. But not every deci-

3 Kester, Advanced Accounting (3rd ed. 1933) ch. 10; Hatfield,
Accounting (1927) ch. V; Saliers, Depreciation Principles and Applications (3rd ed. 1939) ch. 4; Kester, Depreciation (1924); Transactions, Amer. Soc. C. E., vol. 81, p. 1527 (1917); Marston &'Agg,
Engineering Valuation (1936) pp. 83-85.
4 2 Paul & Mertens, Law of Federal Income Taxation, ยง 20.114.

REAL ESTATE TITLE CO. v. U. S.
13

Opinion of the Court.

sion of management to abandon facilities or to discontinue their use gives rise to a claim for obsolescence.
For obsolescence under the Act requires that the operative
cause of the present or growing uselessness arise from
external forces which make it desirable or imperative
that the property be replaced. What those operative
causes may be will be dependent on a wide variety of
factual situations. "New and modern methods" appear
to have been one of the real causes of abandonment of
the title plant in Crooks v. Kansas City Title & Trust
Co., supra. Suffice it here to say that no such external
causes are present, for the record shows little more than
the desire of a management to eliminate one plant which
was a needless duplication of another but which functionally was adequate.' The fact that fewer employees were
required to operate the one retained than the one discarded is inconclusive here. For this is not the case of
acquisition of a new plant to take the place of one outmoded or less efficient. Rather the conclusion is irresistible that the plant was discarded only as a proximate.
result of petitioner's voluntary action in acquiring excess
capacity.
In view of this conclusion, we do not reach respondent's
further objections to allowance of this claim on grounds
of obsolescence.
But petitioner contends that in any event it has abandoned the plant and hence is entitled to a deduction under
ยง 23 (f) of the 1928 Act which allows a corporation to
deduct "losses sustained during the taxable year and not
compensated for by insurance or otherwise."

Whether

petitioner has satisfied those requirements we do not de5 According to petitioner's own witnesses, the discarded plant was
a "more complete plant than any other plant in the City"; and it
had a "background which went all the way back to William Penn."
215234--40-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

cide, for its claim for refund was based exclusively and
solely on the ground that it was entitled to an allowance
for obsolescence. Hence, in absence of a waiver by the
government, Tucker v. Alexander, 275 U. S. 228, or a

proper amendment, petitioner is precluded in this suit
from resting its claim on another ground. United States
v. Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co., 283 U. S. 269.

There has

been no amendment and there are no facts establishing
a waiver.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR.

JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

YEARSLEY ET

AL.

v. W. A. ROSS CONSTRUCTION

CO.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 156.

Argued January 3, 4, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. A contractor working for improvement of river navigation in
conformity with a contract with the Government authorized by
a valid Act of Congress, is not liable for injury resulting to private
riparian land, even though what is so done amounts to a taking
of property by the Government. P. 20.
Where an agent or officer of the Government purporting to act
on its behalf has been held to be liable for his conduct causing
injury to another, the ground of liability has been found to be
either that he exceeded his authority or that it was not validly
conferred.
2. For a taking of private property in the course of authorized
navigation improvement, the Government impliedly promises to
pay just compensation, recoverable by suit against the United
States in the Court of Claims. P. 21.

