ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
149

Syllabus.

his obligation-unless of course Congress decides otherwise.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of the opinion that the

judgment below should be affirmed.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. MINNESOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 222.

Argued January 8, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. Minnesota imposed on railroads a property tax measured by
gross earnings from operations within the State. In the absence
of adequate records, earnings from interchange of freight cars
were apportioned to Minnesota according to a formula. The reporting road was charged with that proportion of the balance
owing from each user of its cars which the user's Minnesota
revenue freight-car mileage was of the user's system car mileage;
and was permitted to deduct that proportion of the balance
owing to other roads for use of their cars which its Minnesota
freight-car mileage was of its system car mileage. The net credits
were ascertained annually and the tax imposed thereon. As
applied to a railroad whose Minnesota mileage was small compared to its system mileage, and whose deductions were small
compared with roads having extensive mileages within the State,
held that the tax formula was consistent with equal protection
and due process under the Fourteenth Amendment and with the
Commerce Clause of the Constitution. Pp. 161, 164.
2. The ratio of Minnesota revenue freight-car mileage to system car
mileage is consistent with the statutory scheme of ascertaining
what payments represent use in Minnesota. P. 161.
3. That the apportionment may not result in mathematical exactitude
is not a constitutional defect. P. 161.

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

309 U.S.

4. Objections of the complainant railroad to the validity of the tax,
that by the formula it is permitted to deduct only a small fraction
of its debit balances compared with other roads having extensive
mileage in the State, and that though it has only 30 miles of track
in the State it must pay a tax while others with hundreds of miles
may pay none-examined and rejected. Pp. 162-163.
5. The fact that the railroads not owning or operating lines within
the State are not taxed on their income from the use of their cars
within the State by other railroads does not produce unconstitutional discrimination against roads which have subjected themselves to the state's jurisdiction and enjoy the privilege of engaging
in business there. P. 163.
6. Double taxation, short of confiscation or proceedings unconstitutional on other grounds, is not forbidden by the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 164.
7. The tax has a fair relation to property employed within the State,
although the property be used in interstate commerce. P. 164.
8. A recomputation by the State of taxes payable under a statute
which was in force throughout the whole period in question is not
such retroactivity as deprives of due process of law. P. 164.
9. Whether the credits here taxed are includible as "gross earnings"
within the meaning of the state statute is a question of local law,
in respect of which this Court defers to the state court's interpretation. P. 165.
205 Minn. 621; 286 N. W. 359, affirmed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment against the
railroad company in a suit brought by the State to recover
additional taxes.

Mr. Chas. A. Helsell, with whom Messrs.M. J. Doherty,
R. C. Beckett, V. W. Foster, and E. C. Craig were on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. John A. Weeks, Assistant Attorney General of
Minnesota, with whom Mr. J. A. A. Burnquist, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
157

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Minnesota imposes on every railroad company owning or operating lines within its borders a five per cent
tax on gross earnings derived from its operation within
the state. This tax, payable in lieu of all other taxes,'
has been sustained by this Court, in, various applications,
as.a property tax.' In this case, which is here on appeal
(28 U. S. C. § 344a) from a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota (205 Minn. 1, 621; 284 N. W. 360;
286 N. W. 359), appellant contends that the statute as
construed and applied to it violates the Fourteenth
Amendment and the commerce clause of the federal
Constitution.
Appellant, an Illinois railroad corporation, owns no
lines in Minnesota but operates leased lines with 30.15
'Sec. 2246, Mason's Minn. Stats. 1927, provides in part:
"Every railroad company owning or operating any line of railroad
situated within or partly within this state, shall, during the year 1913
and annually thereafter, pay into the treasury of the state, in lieu of
all taxes, upon all property within this state owned or operated for
railway purposes, by such company, including equipment, appurtenances, appendages and franchises thereof, a sum of money equal to
five per cent of the gross earnings derived from the operation of such
line of railway within this state."
Sec. 2247 defines "gross earnings" as follows:
"The term 'the gross earnings derived from the operation of such
line of railway within this state,' as used in section 1 of this act is
hereby declared and shall be construed to mean, all earnings on business beginning and ending within the state, and a proportion, based
upon the proportion of the mileage within the state to the entire mileage over which such business is done, of earnings on all interstate
business passing through, into or out of the state."
'Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 278 U. S. 503; Cudahy
Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450; United States Express Co. v.
Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335.

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

miles of trackage in that state.3 It owns or operates
about 5,000 miles in other states. The item of gross
earnings which the state seeks here to tax arises out of
debts and credits for exchange of freight cars which appellant makes with other railroads, the using road being
charged $1 per day per car. During the years here involved appellant had credits in its favor for such use of
its cars by other roads operating in Minnesota of $17,427,862; and debits owing such roads of $14,924,508,
leaving a net credit balance in favor of appellant of
$2,503,353. These debits and credits represented use of
cars in other states as well as in Minnesota. In absence
of adequate and accurate records their use was apportioned to Minnesota pursuant to the following formula:
Each reporting road was charged with such percentage
of the credit balance owing from each using railroad as
was determined by ascertaining the ratio of each using
railroad's Minnesota revenue freight car miles to its system car miles.
Each reporting road was given credit for such percentage of the debit balance owing each other road as was
determined by ascertaining the ratio of the reporting
railroad's Minnesota revenue freight car miles to its system car miles.
The credit and debit balances were computed and apportioned annually; and the net credits were then ascertained, to which the statutory tax of 5 per cent was
applied.
Thus for the year 1922 appellant had credit balances
of $691,433.97 owing from 13 other roads. Their Minnesota revenue freight car miles varied from 2.3% to 100%
of their system car miles, making Minnesota's proportion
of the credit balances $95,359.49. For the same year appellant had debit balances from freight car hire owing to
8 other roads of $215,863.05. Appellant's Minnesota revenue freight car miles were only 0.11% of its system car
'These are operated under a 47 year lease beginning July 1, 1904,
from the Dubuque & Sioux City Railroad Co.

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
157

Opinion of the Court.

miles for that year. Hence, it was permitted to deduct
only 0.11% of $215,863.05 or $237.43, leaving $95,122.06 to
which the tax was applicable. On similar computations
for each of the following seven years the tax for which
the state brought suit totalled $26,414.59.
Appellant's contention under the Fourteenth Amendment is that the statute as applied in the foregoing
formula denies it equal protection of the law and due
process. We do not think that contention is tenable.
First as to the credit balances. These represent payments to appellant for use of its freight cars by other
roads which operate in Minnesota. Minnesota does not
seek to reach all of those receipts. As the statute reaches
only revenues derived from operations in the state, the
formula effects an apportionment. Certainly the ratio
of Minnesota revenue freight car miles to system car
miles is consistent with the statutory scheme of ascertaining what payments represent use in Minnesota. That the
apportionment may not result in mathematical exactitude is certainly not a constitutional defect.4 Rough
approximation rather than precision is, as a practical
matter, the norm in any such tax system.'
Second as to the debit balances. As we have said, appellant is not taxed on all of its credit balances but only
on that portion which accrues as a result of the use of
its cars by others in Minnesota. Hence it is not permitted under the formula to deduct all of its debit balances but only the portion thereof which it pays others
for the use of their cars in Minnesota. Certainly if appellant receives $50,000 from one road for use of appellant's cars in Minnesota and pays another road $50,000
for appellant's use of that road's cars outside of Minnesota, it cannot realistically be said that no part of the
'Cf. Rowley v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 293 U. S. 102,
109.
Cf. Dane v. Jackson, 256 U. S. 589, 598-599.
215234°--40----11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

$50,000 received by appellant has a Minnesota origin.
On the contrary, the whole $50,000 paid appellant derives from use of its cars in Minnesota. For Minnesota
then to lay a tax on the whole amount (as it does under
this formula) is to exercise a jurisdiction which constitutionally is hers. Similarly to permit under the
formula a deduction of only those debit balances owing
-by virtue of the use by appellant in Minnesota of cars of
other roads results in determining a net credit balance for
its Minnesota activity of renting out and borrowing
freight cars. To hold that that net cannot constitutionally be taxed by Minnesota but must be reduced by
the amount of payments made by appellant for its use of
cars in other states would be to deprive Minnesota of
her jurisdiction over property within her borders.'
For
as appellant's cars move over tracks of other roads in
Minnesota and as cars of other roads move over its
tracks in Minnesota, certain credits and debits accrue.
To say that the resultant net credit balance does not derive wholly from operations within Minnesota is to deny
the fact.
But the nub of appellant's objection seems to rest on
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Most of its contentions come back to the point
that it has only 30 odd miles of tracks in the state. On
this phase, appellant makes two points. First, as compared with other roads having extensive mileage in
Minnesota, it is permitted to deduct only a small fraction (between 0.1% and 0.13%) of its debit balances.
Second, it is penalized for having nominal trackage in
Minnesota, for roads with no trackage in the
state pay no tax on these items though they may
have substantial revenues from rentals of cars for use
in Minnesota.
'See Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 696.

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
157

Opinion of the Court.

We have in substance already dealt with the first of
these contentions. All roads operating in Minnesota are
taxed on precisely the same, not on different bases. So
far as the present incidence of the statute is concerned,
the tax is laid on the net credit balances from the business of renting and borrowing cars used in Minnesota.
The fact that appellant receives a larger net than others
from its Minnesota activity of renting and borrowing
cars and hence must pay a larger tax does not mean that
Minnesota has overstepped her constitutional bounds.
Appellant is not singled out for special treatment.' It is
not taxed on one formula; the others, on another. They
are all taxed pursuant to the same formula; and the
formula is adapted to ascertainment of value of property
situated in Minnesota. And appellant's contention that
the tax is discriminatory because it has only 30 miles of
track yet must pay a tax, while others with hundreds of
miles may pay none, is beside the point. The business
taxed is not adequately measured by trackage alone.
Though appellant has but few miles of track in the state,
nevertheless its cars are constantly moving over other
lines in Minnesota. That produces revenue. A tax on
that revenue certainly bears a close relationship to appellant's property in the state which no computation
based on trackage can alter.
As to appellant's second objection under this head, little need be said. Companies not owning or operating
roads within the state are not reached by this tax statute;
roads that do, are. That certainly is not discrimination
in the constitutional sense. Appellant has subjected itself to the jurisdiction of Minnesota. Those doing likewise are similarly treated by the state, as are domestic
companies engaged in that business. The fact that that
'See Southern Railway Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S. 519; American
Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

entails burdens is a part of the price for enjoyment of
the privileges which Minnesota extends.8
Appellant makes some point of double taxation. But
the flaw in that argument is exposed by the familiar
doctrine, aptly phrased by Mr. Justice Holmes, that the
"Fourteenth Amendment no more forbids double taxation than it does doubling the amount of a tax; short
of confiscation or proceedings unconstitutional on other
grounds." I
Appellant's constitutional objection based on the commerce clause has been adequately answered in the prior
decisions of this Court sustaining other taxes levied under
this statute." ° The right of a state to tax property, although it is used in interstate commerce, is well settled.
And certainly if such tax has a fair relation to the property employed in the state (as this tax clearly does) it
cannot be said to run afoul of the prohibition against
state taxation on interstate commerce. As Chief Justice
Fuller once said on that point, ". . . by whatever name
the exaction may be called, if it amounts to no more
than the ordinary tax upon property or a just equivalent
therefor, ascertained by reference thereto, it is not open
to attack as inconsistent with the Constitution."
As to appellant's claim of retroactivity, little need be
said. We have here at most a mere recomputation by
the state of taxes payable under a statute which was
existent throughout the whole period in question.
Neglect of administrative officials, misunderstanding of
the law, lack of adequate machinery, have never been
constitutional barriers to a state reaching backward for
'See Atlantic Refining Co. v. Virginia, 302 U. S. 22, 31.
'Ft. Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532, 533.
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Minnesota; Cudahy Packing Co. v.
Minnesota; and United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, supra,
note 2.
" Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, supra note 6, p. 697.

U. S. v. NATIONAL SURETY CORP.
157

Syllabus.

taxes.12 Hence the case falls far short of types of retroactive tax legislation which have repeatedly been sustained by this Court, " in recognition of the principle that
liability for retroactive taxes is "one of the notorious incidents of social life." 14 Certainly where opportunity to
be heard is afforded, as here, there can be no complaint
for lack of due process of law.15
In conclusion, appellant contends that the Supreme
Court of Minnesota erred in holding that the credits here
taxed are "gross earnings" within the meaning of the
statute. But on such matters of construction we defer to
the state court's interpretation."
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT
OF MIDLAND LOAN FINANCE CO. v. NATIONAL
SURETY CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 236. Argued January 9, 10, 1940.-Decided February 5, 1940.
A private user of the mails may not, without the express or implied
consent of the United States, bring suit on the bond of a postmaster (in which the United States is the sole obligee) for consequential damages resulting from misdelivery of mail. P. 169.
103 F. 2d 450, affirmed.
"Florida Central & Peninsular R. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S.
471; White River Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 279 U. S. 692.
13
Seattle v. Kelleher, 195 U. S. 351; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239
U. S. 207.
" Seattle v. Kelleher, supra note 13, p. 360; League v. Texas, 184
U. S. 156.
"Kentucky Union Co. v. Kentucky, 219 U. S. 140, 154.
" Chicago Theological Seminary v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 662, 674;
Storaasliv. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 57, 62.

