U. S. v. NATIONAL SURETY CORP.
157

Syllabus.

taxes.12 Hence the case falls far short of types of retroactive tax legislation which have repeatedly been sustained by this Court, " in recognition of the principle that
liability for retroactive taxes is "one of the notorious incidents of social life." 14 Certainly where opportunity to
be heard is afforded, as here, there can be no complaint
for lack of due process of law.15
In conclusion, appellant contends that the Supreme
Court of Minnesota erred in holding that the credits here
taxed are "gross earnings" within the meaning of the
statute. But on such matters of construction we defer to
the state court's interpretation."
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT
OF MIDLAND LOAN FINANCE CO. v. NATIONAL
SURETY CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 236. Argued January 9, 10, 1940.-Decided February 5, 1940.
A private user of the mails may not, without the express or implied
consent of the United States, bring suit on the bond of a postmaster (in which the United States is the sole obligee) for consequential damages resulting from misdelivery of mail. P. 169.
103 F. 2d 450, affirmed.
"Florida Central & Peninsular R. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S.
471; White River Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 279 U. S. 692.
13
Seattle v. Kelleher, 195 U. S. 351; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239
U. S. 207.
" Seattle v. Kelleher, supra note 13, p. 360; League v. Texas, 184
U. S. 156.
"Kentucky Union Co. v. Kentucky, 219 U. S. 140, 154.
" Chicago Theological Seminary v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 662, 674;
Storaasliv. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 57, 62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioner.

309 U.S.

CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 534, to review the affirmance of
a judgment of the District Court, 23 F. Supp. 411, dismissing the complaint in an action on a postmaster's
bond.
Mr. Benedict Deinard for petitioner.
If a postmaster stands in a relationship toward private
mail-users akin to that of clerks of the District Courts
towards private suitors, the right to recover is established
by Howard v. United States, 184 U. S. 676.
The language of the bond statute, 39 U. S. C. § 34,
confers benefits upon users of the mails, as well as upon
the Government.
That the United States was the sole obligee is not
controlling. Howard v. United States, 184 U. S. 676, 687;
United States v. Globe Indemnity Co., 26 F. 2d 191;
United States v. Bell,- 135 F. 336; In re Walker Grain
Co., 3 F. 2d 872, 874; dist'g District of Columbiav. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 271 F. 383.
The statute permits a bond normally sufficient to cover
both the Government and the mail-users. There is no
limit on the penalty. The Government may exact a new
bond if a recovery on an existing bond diminishes security
for the future. Postal Laws and Regs., 1932, § 414.
Liability on an official bond is co-extensive with the
liability of the officer himself. National Surety Co. v.
United States, 129 F. 70; Gibson v. United States, 208 F.
534; American Surety Co. v. United States, 133 F. 1019.
If the Government, as bailee, may sue a third person
who wrongfully deals with the subject of bailment, or his
surety, then the sender of a letter, as bailor, is entitled
to the same remedy. New Jersey Steam Nay. Co. v.
Boston Merchants Bank, 6 How. 344.
Plaintiff's right to sue in the name of the United States
derives from the fact that Congress intended mail-users

U. S. v. NATIONAL SURETY CORP.
165

Opinion of the Court.

should be beneficiaries of the bond, and prescribed no
other remedy. Howard v. United States, supra.
Mr. George T. Havel, with whom Mr. Henry N. Benson
was on the brief, for Patrick J. Malone; and Mr. Pierce
Butler, Jr., with whom Messrs. M. J. Doherty and R. 0.
Sullivan were on the brief, for National Surety Corporation, respondents.
By leave of Court, Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant
Attorney General Shea, and Messrs. Melvin H. Siegel,
Robert K. McConnaughey, and Oscar H. Davis filed a
brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question presented is whether petitioner, a private
user of the mails, may without the consent of any officer
of the United States bring suit on the bond of an acting
postmaster for consequential damages resulting from
misdelivery of mail. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit affirmed a judgment of the District Court
for the District of Minnesota dismissing petitioner's complaint.1 We granted certiorari 2 because of an alleged
conflict with a decision of this Court ' and because an
important question in the administration of the postal
laws was involved.
The complaint alleged that petitioner was engaged in
the business of automobile financing in Minneapolis, in
the course of which it purchased from automobile dealers
the installment notes of buyers secured by their sales
contracts. A dealer living at Montgomery, Minnesota,
' 103 F. 2d 450, affirming 23 F. Supp 411.
'308 U. S. 534.
'Howard v. United States, 184 U. S. 676.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

where the respondent Malone was acting postmaster, is
alleged to have put into operation a scheme to defraud
petitioner by selling it forged notes and contracts, which
he sent petitioner along with a fictitious list of credit references. Petitioner, before purchasing, followed its usual
practice of mailing letters of inquiry to the references,
and after purchasing mailed payment books, insurance
certificates, and receipts to the purported makers of the
notes. The dealer persuaded the acting postmaster
Malone, allegedly in violation of the Postal Regulations,'
to turn over to him all letters that arrived in Montgomery
in petitioner's envelopes. Then he sent forged replies to
petitioner's letters and made installment payments out of
the money which petitioner had paid him in buying the
notes. The dealer thus defrauded the Finance Company
of some $34,000. The respondent Malone, on taking office
as acting postmaster, had executed a bond for $16,000
to the United States as sole obligee with the respondent
Surety Corporation as surety. The condition of the bond
was:

"That if the said Patrick J. Malone shall on and after
the date he took charge of the post office faithfully discharge all duties and trusts imposed on him as acting
postmaster either by law or by the regulations of the
Post Office Department, and shall perform all duties as
fiscal agent of the Government imposed on him by law or
by regulation of the Treasury Department made in conformity with law, and shall also perform all duties and
obligations imposed upon or required of him by law, or
by regulation made pursuant to law, in connection with
'Postal Laws and Regulations (1932), § 777. "Mail matter should
be delivered to the person addressed or in accordance with his written order . .
"2. When a person requests delivery to him of the mail of another,
claiming that the addressee has verbally given him authority to receive it, the postmaster, if he doubts the authority, may require it
"
to be in writing, signed and filed in his office.

U. S. v. NATIONAL SURETY CORP.
165

Opinion of the Court.

the Postal Savings System, then this obligation shall be
void; otherwise, of force."
In its complaint, without alleging specific authorization
from the United States to sue, petitioner asked judgment
on the bond for the defaults of Malone as postmaster.
At the close of the testimony at the trial motions to dismiss the complaint were made by respondents and the
district judge reserved judgment. After a jury verdict
for petitioner the motions were granted. The Court of
Appeals affirmed on the ground that a private user of the
mails cannot maintain such an action as is here alleged
without the consent of the United States, the obligee in
the bond, and that no consent was given either by the
statutes, expressly or by implication, or by any appropriate officer of the United States.
The respondent gave a statutory bond in compliance
with an enactment of the Congress for the purposes
specified in the statute.' As the bond is part of an integrated system of postal regulations, the determination of
the parties authorized to sue upon it is a federal question
governed by federal law.'
We agree with the Court of Appeals that there was no
consent and that such consent is necessary. Consequently there is no occasion to determine whether the
bond was intended to protect private users of the mail
from all loss or damage, however consequential, occasioned by the postmaster.
The record shows the only effort made to secure consent
of an officer was a request to the Attorney General for
'39 U. S. C. § 34, Postal Laws and Regulations § 410:
"Every postmaster, before entering upon the duties of his office,
shall give bond, with good and approved security, and in such penalty
as the Postmaster General shall deem sufficient, conditioned for the
faithful discharge of all duties and trusts imposed on him either by
law or the rules and regulations of the department."
'James Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, ante, p. 94.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

authority to sue. This was refused. Whether as a matter of right a third party may sue on the instrument for
loss covered by an official bond running only to the
statutory obligee depends upon the intention of the legislative body which required the bond. This intention
may be evidenced by express statutory language or by
implication. This was the rule announced in Corporation
of Washington v. Young.7 There a bond had been given
to the Corporation of Washington, a municipality, by the
manager of a lottery "truly and impartially to execute"
his duties. Without the city's consent, the holder of a
winning ticket sued on the bond. This Court said:
"No person who is not the proprietor of an obligation,
can have a legal right to put it in suit, unless such right
be given by the Legislature; and no person can be authorized to use the name of another, without his assent
given in fact, or by legal intendment."
In Howard v. United States ' this comment was made
upon the Young decision:
"That case undoubtedly is authority for the proposition that, generally speaking, an obligation taken under
legislative sanction cannot, in the absence of a statute
so providing, be put in suit in the name of the obligee,
the proprietor of the obligation, without his consent."
Such official bonds are often part of a general statutory
plan for the operation of governmental activities. While
all the activities of a government of course confer benefits on its citizens, frequently the benefits are incidental
10 Wheat. 406, 409.
184 U. S. 676, 691.

'Cf. United States v. United States Lines Co., 24 F.Supp. 427;
Moody v. Megee, 31 F. 2d 117; United States ex rel. Brumberg Bros.
v. Globe Indemnity Co., 26 F. 2d 191, 193; Idaho Gold Reduction Co.
v. Croghan, 6 Idaho 471, 473; 56 P. 164; United States v. Griswold,
8 Ariz. 453, 456; 76 P. 596.

U. S. v. NATIONAL SURETY CORP.
165

Opinion of the Court.

and unenforceable.'( In the case of an official bond, even
if its benefits are not incidental, it may well be that the
legislative body is of the opinion that actions on the
bond should be limited to the government in order to
secure unified administration of claims.
We have recognized a similar need for a single control
in regard to a sale bond required by a district court in
an equity receivership. This Court in Munroe v.
Raphael "' had before it an injunction granted by a federal district court upon the motion of its receiver to
rescind a consent to sue and forbid further proceedings
in a suit in a state court in the name of the United States
upon a sale bond of the estate in receivership. The sale
bond had been given for assets purchased from the receiver. It ran to the United States only and guaranteed
the payment of a certain percentage of indebtedness to
all creditors of the estate. The suit had been instituted
in the state court by one creditor, with permission of the
district court obtained prior to the receiver's motion for
injunction. This Court upheld the injunction on the
theory that the bond, a part of the estate, remained
within the control of the court and that to ensure ratable
payments to all creditors one should not be permitted to
carry on the litigation. In the opinion, it was declared:
"Certainly no creditor could bring a suit in his own name
on the bond, for his share of the purchase money. Nor
could he institute such an action without leave of the

District Court."

12

Petitioner's attack is pointed at the application of the
consent rule rather than at the rule itself. While with
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Home Water Supply Co., 226 U. S.
220, 231.
U 288 U. S. 485.
'"Ibid. at 488; see'District of Columbia to Use of Langellotti v.
Fidelity & Deposit Co., 50 App. D. C. 309; 271 F. 383.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

some other official bonds consent is given by express provision, 3 none is given in the postmaster bond statute.
Petitioner urges that consent by implication is given.
Attention is called to the words "legal intendment" in
the quotation from Corporationof Washington v. Young
and to a comment upon the Young.case in the Howard
case that these words show that "consent may, under
some circumstances, be assumed to have been given
..

14

These expressions are used to base an argument

that the statutes and regulations of the postal service establish consent by intendment. The precedent chiefly
relied upon for this position is the Howard case. This
was a suit, without express consent of the United States,
on a bond of a clerk of the district court, alleging breach
by failure to pay over money deposited with the clerk in
settlement of prior litigation. The bond was a statutory
bond naming the United States as sole obligee and assuring that the clerk would faithfully discharge the duties
of his office. This Court analyzed the statutory requirements and the "peculiar relation" of the clerk to the
court to determine the intendment of the Congress as to
the standing of the private litigant to sue on clerks'
bonds. Consideration was given to the fact that "the
great mass of litigation . . . has always been between

individuals," " that "the practice of a century" required
a ruling that the bond covered them and that it could
- 40 U. S. C. § 270a-d (laborers and materialmen may sue on bond
of contractor for government building); 22 U. S. C. § 103 ("any person injured" may sue on bond of consul); 22 U. S. C. § 78 (same as
to bonds of consular officers acting as administrators in foreign countries); 22 U. S. C. §§ 170, 171 (same as to bonds of marshals of
consular courts); 28 U. S. C. §§ 496, 500 (same as to bonds of U. S.
marshals); 11 U. S. C. § 78 (h) (same as to bonds of referees, trustees
and designated depositories in bankruptcy); 7 U. S. C. §§ 247, 249
(same as to bonds of warehousemen under the Warehouse Act).
"184 U. S.676, 691.
"Id., p. 687.

U. S. v. NATIONAL SURETY CORP.
165

173

Opinion of the Court.

not be said of the clerk's bond, as it was said of the lottery bond, that it was given primarily for the governmental authority. This Court concluded that even
though "generally speaking . . . in the absence of a statute" the obligation cannot be put in suit in the name of
the obligee without his consent, the factors of custom,
similarity of governmental and private use of the courts
and the surrounding circumstances, in the absence of
words declaratory of intention, evidenced an intendment
to permit suit without consent on the clerk's bond. "In
our opinion, Congress intended that the required bond
should protect private suitors as well as the United
States, and therefore, no statute forbidding it, a private
suitor may bring an action thereon for his benefit in the
name of the obligee, the United States. Such must be
held to be the legal intendment of existing statutory
provisions." 16
We conclude in the present instance, however, that circumstances, practice, statutes and regulations combine
to forbid reading into this situation a "legal intendnent"
to permit suit without the consent of the United States.
Assuming the bond declared upon here is intended to
cover the users of mail service, its beneficiaries are legion
in comparison with the users of a court's depository.
Moreover, the United States has a very substantial interest in a postmaster's bond. The statutory duties of
a postmaster require him to act as a fiscal officer for the
government at his office. He is responsible for postal
savings deposits, money orders, stamps, and salary disbursements as well as for the property of the service, buildings, mail bags and other equipment.1 7 Such circumstances weigh against a holding that the Congress intended to let a private user of the mails, wronged by the
" Id., p. 692.
Postal Laws and Regulations §§ 105-06, 443, 1626, 1408, 1426,
1430 (21), 137, 235, 1866-70.
17

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

principal of a postmaster's bond, sue wherever he might
such priority on
find defendants and gain for himself
8
the bond as vigilance could obtain.'
Apparently it is not customary for the United States to
consent to suit by mail users upon postmasters' bonds.
No case has been called to our attention where such permission has been granted though the requirement for a
bond has been in existence since 1825.1' Rarely has a
private individual sought recovery.2" The contention of
petitioner cannot be said to be supported by any continued administrative practice. On the other hand, the
United States has undertaken repeatedly and successfully
to recover on the bonds for the losses of mail users. Recovery has been allowed on the theory of a suit by a bailee
for loss of property in his possession. 2'
" In the absence of express legislation the government is not entitled to priority. See United States v. State Bank of North Carolina,
6 Pet. 29, 35; Mellon v. Michigan Trust Co., 271 U. S. 236, 239;
United States v. Knott, 298 U. S.544, 547.
The first statute permitting private suits on public contractors'
bonds to the United States made no provision for government priority.
28 Stat. 278. By a later amendment private suits were forbidden
until six months after completion of the contract and settlement of
the contractors' accounts and the government was given priority.
33 Stat. 811; see Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214, 217.
The present statute requires two bonds, one for the government and
a second for laborers and materialmen. 40 U. S. C. § 270a-d.
"Act of March 3, 1825, 4 Stat. 103.
"Cf. Wile v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 6 Alaska 48;
Idaho Gold Reduction Co. v. Croghan,6 Idaho 471; 56 P. 164.
"National Surety Co. v. United States, 129 F. 70 (C. C. A. 8);
American Surety Co. v. United States, 133 F. 1019 (C. C. A. 5);
United States v. American Surety Co., 163 F. 228 (C. C. A. 4);
United States v. American Surety Co., 155 F. 941 (N. D. Ill.);
Gibson v. United States, 208 F. 534 (C. C. A. 1); United States
Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. United States, 229 F. 397 (C. C. A. 8);
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. United States, 246 F. 433
(C. C. A. 9); United States v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
247 F. 16 (C. C. A. 6); United States v. Griswold, 8 Ariz. 453;
76 P. 596.

U. S. v. NATIONAL SURETY CORP.
165

175

Opinion of the Court.

There are over 44,000 post offices under the Post Office
Department 2 and it is common knowledge that millions
of items of mail go through them each year. It is rather
obvious that numerous claims, many of them for small
amounts, are likely to arise in the course of many transactions." Under the Department's Regulations there is a
fairly complete administrative formula for handling these
claims from discovery to satisfaction.2" These facts, along
with the substantial interest of the government in the
bonds, convince us that the Congress intended that claims
on the bonds would be handled through the government
rather than through various suits by individuals.
Affirmed.
Report of the Postmaster General, 1939, p. 126.
" Compare the Department's experience with claims on domestic
2

insured mail during the fiscal year ending June 30, .1939. Payments
were made in connection with 113,846 claims, and the average payment amounted to only $3.87. Report of the Postmaster General,
1939, p. 120.
" Postal Laws and Regulations § 816:
"The loss, rifling, damage, wrong delivery of, or depredation upon
registered or other mail, and the failure to collect or remit C. 0. D.
funds shall be investigated by the Chief Inspector, who shall ascertain the facts.
"2. When the Chief Inspector finds that the facts ascertained in
connection with such an investigation establish the responsibility,
by reason of fault or negligence, of a postal employee or mail contractor or an agent or employee thereof, the Chief Inspector shall demand
the amount of the loss from such employee or contractor.
"6. If full recovery is not made and the Chief Inspector determines
that further proceedings should be had, he shall present the facts
to the Solicitor for the Post Office Department for advice as to the
advisability of suit by the United States for recovery of the amount
involved. Upon receipt of the reply of the Solicitor the Chief Inspector shall, if he deem proper, prepare the request of the Postmaster
General upon the Solicitor of the Treasury for suit.
"7. All amounts recovered under the provisions of this section shall
be paid to the United. States and to the senders or owners of the
mail as their interests shall appear."

