INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. v. YOUNG.

517

Argument for Respondent.

INLAND WATERWAYS CORP.
RECEIVER.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

v. YOUNG,

FOR THE DISTRICT

OF COLUMBIA.

No. 6.

Argued October 11, 1939.-Decided March 25, 1940.

A national bank may pledge assets to secure deposits of government
funds made by governmental agencies even though the deposits may
not be "public money" within § 45 of the National Bank Act. P. 523.
The power is to be implied in accordance with traditional government policy and is supported by administrative practice.
69 App. D. C. 268; 100 F. 2d 678, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 626, to review the affirmance of
judgments recovered by the receiver of a national bank
against certain public agencies and officials.

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson and Mr. Paul A. Sweeney were on the
brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Swagar Sherley and George B. Springston,with
whom Messrs. Charles F. Wilson and George P. Barse
were on the brief, for respondent.
National banks have no power to pledge their assets
to secure deposits unless specifically authorized by an
Act of Congress. Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Pottorff, 291
U. S. 245, 253; Marion v. Sneeden, 291 U. S. 262; Lewis
v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 292 U. S. 559.
The only pledges which the Act of 1864 permits are
pledges exacted by and made to the Secretary of the
Treasury to secure deposits of public money under his
control. And if public money is deposited in a national
bank designated as a Government depository, and insufficient security taken, the Government has no priority
upon insolvency of the bank, but shares in its liquidation

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

equally with other depositors. Cook County National
Bank v. United States, 107 U. S. 445, 448.
The deposits were not public money within § 75 of
the National Bank Act. There has been no compliance
with the provisions of § 45 of the National Bank Act.
O'Connor v. Rhodes, 79 F. 2d 146, 150. The pledge is
not authorized by the Act of February 16, 1933.
Administrative practice can not supply lack of specific
statutory authority to legalize the pledge. Marion v.
Sneeden, 291 U. S. 262, 269. Nor can custom or usage.
See Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Pottorfi, 291 U. S. 245, 255.
The attempted pledge of the bank's assets to secure
Canal Zone deposits was void, and no title passed thereby
to the intended pledgee. Respondent therefore may recover the property from the person in possession, since
there is no lawful statutory authority for its retention.
The right to recover can not be defeated on the ground
that the property has been transferred to the Secretary's
successor.
National banks have no power to pledge their assets
to secure deposits of the Merchant Fleet Corporation
or the Inland Waterways Corporation. There has been
no compliance by those agencies with § 45 of the National
Bank Act. The deposits were lawful and no relationship
of trustee and cestui que trust was created.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question before us is whether a national bank may
pledge assets to secure deposits of funds made by governmental agencies, even though they may not be "public
money" within the scope of § 45 of the National Banking
Act, 13 Stat. 99, 113, 12 U. S. C. § 90.
The deposits in question were made with the Commercial National Bank by three separate governmental
agencies-by the Inland Waterways Corporation and the

INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. v. YOUNG.
517

519

Opinion of the Court..

United States Shipping Board Merchant Fleet Corporation,' and by the Secretary of War on behalf of the
Panama Canal Zone. After the bank's insolvency the
present suit was instituted by the receiver, respondent
here, for the recovery of the pledged assets or their proceeds to the extent of the amount in excess of the dividends paid to the general depositors. The District Court
granted respondent's motion to strike out portions of the
petitioners' answers asserting the validity of the pledges.
The petitioners stood their ground, and decrees pro confesso for the respondent followed. The Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia affirmed, 69 App. D. C. 268;
100 F. 2d 678, and we granted certiorari, 306 U. S. 626,
because the controversy raised matters of importance in
the administration of the National Banking Act.
At the threshold we are met by two recent decisions
of this Court, Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorif, 291 U. S.
245, and Marion v. Sneeden, 291 U. S. 262. In view of
the thorough consideration which these two cases received and the added weight which they derive from the
authority, in the field of banking, of Mr. Justice Brandeis,
the writer of the opinions, we start with full acceptance
of what they decided.
The Pottorff case held that a national bank was without authority to pledge its assets as security for private
deposits. In the absence of specific authority to make
such pledges, the general policy of the Act and principles of sound banking practice were drawn upon to establish the prohibition. To allow the withdrawal of assets
of the bank from general availability would impair the
bank's liquidityw-its ability to meet unexpected demands
by depositors-and thereby restrict the national banking
system as a reliable instrument of national finance. In
the Sneeden case the banking standards relied upon in
'Both these corporations are wholly owned by the United States.

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

the Pottorf] case were applied likewise to deny to national
banks power to pledge their assets as security for deposits
by state and local governmental agencies except where
permission is given by the Act of June 25, 1930, 46 Stat.
809, 12 U. S. C. § 90.2
But the function of national banks as depositaries of
federal funds was not before the Court in the Pottorfj
and Sneeden cases, and the power of the banks in relation
to such funds could not have been decided there. That
power is the exact issue here. The solution of this problem, however, must be found by application of those
standards for judgment which were decisive in the former
cases. In other words, the history and purposes of the
statute and the traditional policy of the National Government in utilizing the national banks as fiscal agencies
must give meaning to the silence of the Act.
Congress has necessarily been concerned from the
beginning to provide appropriate safeguards for government funds. One of the motives in the establishment of
the first Bank of the United States was its availability
as a safe depositary for such funds. They were kept
there until the expiration of that Bank's charter in 1811.
Thereafter and until the second Bank of the United
States was chartered, government monies were kept in
state banks. These deposits were without security, and
as a consequence severe losses followed the financial dislocation which came with the War of 1812. This experience led the Government to exact security, and losses
became negligible. Phillips, Methods of Keeping the
2 Lewis

v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 292 U. S. 559, involved merely

the application of the Sneeden doctrine to the special circumstances
presented by Georgia legislation in the case of national banks situated
in that State. The Lewis case, like the Pottorff and Sneeden cases,
did not bring into issue the power of national banks with reference to
federal deposits. Of. course, the Lewis case neither professed to enlarge, nor could it, the scope of the Pottorff and Sneeden decisions.

INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. v. YOUNG.
517

521

Opinion of the Court.

Public Monies of the United States, pp. 6-20; H. Rep.
No. 358, 21 Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. 3, p. 12; IV McMaster,
History of the People of the United States, p. 295 et seq.;
III American State Papers, Finance, p. 11. The second
Bank of the United States, established partly to serve as
a Government depositary, kept most of the federal funds
until their withdrawal in 1833 by Secretary Taney. But
as a condition to their deposit in various state banks after
1833, Taney, acting upon the earlier experience of the
Treasury under Secretaries Gallatin and Crawford, exacted appropriate security.' By the Act of June 23, 1836,
5 Stat. 52, Congress translated Treasifry practice into
legislative policy. It thereby became the Secretary's
duty, whenever wisdom dictated, to require collateral for
Government funds. As a result security was demanded
of almost all the depositaries. Phillips, op. cit., p. 63.
The panic of 1837 brought another modification. Government monies were held by the local collectors and
by the Treasury itself, and a little later deposited in
the new Sub-Treasury. But in 1841 the old method
of deposit in state banks was resumed under the practice
which had been introduced in 1833. Exec. Doc. No. 123,
27th Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 2; Phillips, op. cit., p. 113.
This arrangement-that is, deposits secured by collateral-continued until the Sub-Treasury Act of 1846,
9 Stat. 59, led to the withdrawal of Government funds
from private banks. The sub-treasury system persisted
until the establishment of the modern national banking
system.
'These conditions, incorporated in contracts between the Treasury
and the banks, required collateral to be pledged for all deposits in
excess of one-half the bank's paid-in capital. In addition the Treasury reserved the right to demand additional security whenever it was
thought prudent. Exec. Doc. No. 2, 23rd Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. 1,
p. 36; Phillips, op. cit., pp. 53-55; Girard, The Independent Treasury, p. 17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

The policy of securing Government deposits thus antedates the National Banking Act. It was the practical
response to disastrous experience. It began without any
statutory authorization, and was continued both with and
without specific Congressional sanction. Long practice
and Congressional approval lodged in the Secretary of the
Treasury authority to take appropriate measures to safeguard the nation against loss of its funds. The integrity
of Government monies was naturally considered an object of great national importance, the attainment of
which properly belonged to those entrusted with their
disposition.
It is against this background that the National Banking Act of 1864 must be projected, intended as it was to
provide facilities for the deposit of Government funds.
Congress was alive to the Treasury's experience with deposits, secured and unsecured, during the preceding decades, together with the policy which had evolved from
that experience. Cong. Globe, 37th Cong., 3rd Sess., Pt.
I, pp. 843-45. The banking system which Congress thus
established embodied a blend of governmental and private
purposes. See Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S.
138, 154; Davis, The Origin of the National Banking System, S. Doc. No. 582, 61st Cong., 2nd Sess.
By § 45 of the Act, Congress specifically commanded
the Secretary of the Treasury to exact security for "public
monies" deposited by him in national banks. R. S.
§ 5153 (12 U. S. C. § 90). We read this as an exaction of
duty from the Secretary as to monies subject to his control, see Cook County Nat. Bank v. United States, 107
U. S. 445, 449, and not as a limitation upon the power
of the bank to give security when it may be required by
other Government officers and agencies charged with the
custody of federal funds. Placing § 45 in the setting of
its history, we do not think it should be read in a nig-

INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. v. YOUNG.
517

523

Opinion of the Court.

gardly spirit, as though it expressed a gingerly departure
from public policy. On the contrary, it is a manifestation
of historic national practice, which is to be given scope
consonant with the reason for its development. Compare
Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp., 306
U. S. 381. By a series of specific statutory commands,
Congress has recognized the power of national banks to
give security for deposits of a governmental nature by
laying upon various agencies, charged with the custody
of such funds, a duty to exact collateral. See § 61 of
the Bankruptcy Act, 30 Stat. 562; § 9 of the Postal Savings Act, 36 Stat. 816; and Acts relating to Insolvent Bank
Funds, 39 Stat. 121; Porto Rican Funds, 39 Stat. 951;
Government Obligations, 40 Stat. 291 and Indian Monies,
40 Stat. 591. With one exception all these special statutory requirements pertain to funds held by the Government for the benefit of others. It is difficult to suppose
that what Congress has commanded with respect to funds
held by its agencies in an immediate fiduciary capacity,
it would deem a violation of law if done with respect to
funds bereficially owned by the United States itself.
What may be inimical to the private aspects of the
national banking system, and therefore ultra vires, has no
such relevance to the public aspect of national banks, and
to the enforcement of the public interest by those charged
with primary responsibility for its guardianship.
So far as the powers of a national bank to pledge its
assets are concerned, the form which Government takeswhether it appears as the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of War, or the Inland Waterways Corporation-is wholly immaterial. The motives which lead
Government to clothe its activities in corporate form are
entirely unrelated to the problem of safeguarding governmental deposits, and therefore irrelevant to the issue
of ultra vires. Compare Skinner & Eddy Corp. v. Mc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Carl, 275 U. S. 1, 8.: The true nature of these modern
devices for carrying out governmental functions is recognized in other legal relations when realities become decisive. Compare Clallam County v. United States, 263
U. S. 341; Emergency Fleet Corp. v. Western Union, 275

U. S. 415. The funds of these corporations are, for all
practical purposes, Government funds; the losses, if
losses there be, are the Government's losses. Compare
U. S. Grain Corp. v. Phillips, 261 U. S. 106, 113.

See

Seventeenth Annual Report, U. S. Shipping Board, 1933,
pp. 88-89, for summary of losses borne by Treasury on
behalf of the Merchant Fleet Corporation, and compare
Annual Report, Inland Waterways Corporation, 1936,
pp. 16-22.
The policy underlying Congressional legislation and reflected in the history of governmental deposits is confirmed by the explicit recognition of that official in whom
is centered oversight of the administration of the National Banking Act. S. Doc. 175, 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess.
The Comptroller of the Currency, to be sure, must himself move within the orbit of the National Banking Act.
Illegality cannot attain legitimacy through practice. But
when legality itself is in dispute-when Congress has
spoken at best with ambiguous silence-a long continued
practice pursued with the knowledge of the Comptroller
of the Currency is more persuasive than considerations of
abstract conflict between such a practice and purposes
attributed to Congress. More than half a dozen agencies
have thought it their duty to safeguard deposits in nearly
a hundred banks by transactions similar to those before
us. This practice had the approval of the Comptroller
because he believed it within the scope of the National
'See McDairmid, Government Corporations and Federal Funds, 31
Am. Pol. Science Rev. 1095; Federal Corporations and Corporate
Agencies, 16 Harv. Bus. Rev. 436. The corporations, of course, perform "governmental" functions. Graves v. O'Keefe., 306 U. S.466.

INLAND WATERWAYS CORP. v. YOUNG.
517

ROBERTS,

525

J., dissenting.

Banking Act. Even constitutional power, when the text
is doubtful, may be established by usage. See United
States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, 473. When
dealing with such necessarily argumentative concepts as
those of which the law of ultra vires is so largely composed, the responsible and pervasive practice of public
officers bent on safeguarding the public interests ought to
carry the day even were the issue more in doubt than we
believe it to be.
Deeming the challenged pledges to have been validly
made, we think petitioners were entitled to judgment.
It is therefore unnecessary for us to consider the other
arguments here urged in their behalf. The judgments
below should be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

took no

part in the disposition of this case.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting:

The court below followed and applied the decisions of
this court in Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. PottorfJ, 291 U. S.
245, Marion v. Sneeden, 291 U. S.262, and Lewis v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 292 U. S.559.
It is true that those cases presented the question
whether national banks are authorized to give security
for private deposits and those of state agencies. But the
basis of each of the decisions 'was that national banks are
without power to pledge assets as security for any deposits, in the absence of express legislative sanction.
Paradoxically, the opinion of the court, while recognizing the authority, in the field of banking, of Mr. Justice
Brandeis, who announced the opinions in4 all three cases
for a unanimous court, rejects the fundamental principle
of the opinions. Whereas in the Lewis case Mr. Justice
Brandeis announced in plain terms that, in the absence
of express authorization, a national bank has "no power

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

to make any pledge to secure deposits except the federal
deposits specifically provided for by Acts of Congress,"
the opinion of the court spells out such power despite
"the silence of the act."
In the Texas & Pacific and Marion cases the opinions
point out that whenever Congress has intended that security should be taken for deposits of government funds
specific authority has been granted.1 That what was thus
said by Mr. Justice Brandeis was deemed necessary to
the decisions and was the deliberate conclusion of the
court is evidenced by his statement in Lewis v. Fidelity
Co., at p. 564:
"In Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorff, 291 U. S. 245,
and Marion v. Sneeden, 291 U. S. 262, . . . we held that
a national bank had, prior to the Act of June 25, 1930,
no power to make any pledge to secure deposits except
the federal deposits specifically provided for by Acts of
Congress."
Now it is said that these cases incorrectly state the
governing principle. That principle is now said to be
that Congress cannot have intended to limit the authority
of banks to give security in cases where administrative
officers in charge of government funds have deemed it
appropriate that security should be given. In other
words, despite the withholding of any grant of power to
institutions whose powers are only those granted,2 a
power is spelled out.
The attempt to buttress the implication of the power
from the fact that federal agencies have heretofore exacted security, and that the Comptroller of the Currency has been of the view that such pledges were not
'See Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorf, p. 257, Note 11; Marion
v. Sneeden, p. 268.
".The measure of their powers is the statutory grant; and powers
not conferred by Congress are denied."
Pottorf], p. 253.

Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.

WOODRING v. WARDELL.
Argument for Respondent.

517

in violation of the Act, is answered by what was said in
Marion v. Sneeden (p. 269):
"comptrollers of the currency knew that this was being
done; and they assumed that the banks had power so to
do. But the assumption was erroneous."
I think that as the Court of Appeals followed the
principle rightly applied in the decisions of this court its
judgment should be affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS join
in this opinion.
WOODRING, SECRETARY OF WAR, ET AL. V.
WARDELL, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 5.

Argued October 10, 11, 1939.-Decided March 25, 1940.

Decided upon the authority of the case last preceding.
69 App. D. C. 280; 100 F. 2d 690, reversed.

306 U. S. 626, to review the affirmance of
a judgment recovered by the receiver of a national bank
against the petitioners.
CERTIORARI,

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson and Mr. Paul A. Sweeney were on the
brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Brice Clagett and George P. Barse, with whom
Messrs. Charles E. Wainwright and George B. Springston
were on the brief, for respondent.
There is no congressional policy giving preference to
Government deposits. Though Congress gave claims of
the United States against insolvents priority over all
others, the rule is inapplicable to claims against insolvent
national banks.

