OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

NATIONAL LICORICE CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 272.

Argued February 7, 1940.-Decided March 4, 1940.

1. Substantial evidence sustains a finding by the National Labor
Relations Board that a particular union was the choice of a majority of employees, as bargaining representative of all, at a time
when their employer refused to deal with it as representative of
employees who were not members of the union. P. 357.
2. Employees in a plant agreed individually with the employer not
.to strike or to demand a closed shop or a signed agreement with
any union, also for arbitration as to wages and hours, but that
the question of the propriety of an employee's discharge should in
no event be one for arbitration or mediation. The contracts were
procured with the aid of a committee of employees which was
created for that purpose, and dominated, by the employer, and
retained thereafter no function other than that of joining the
employer in selection of an arbitrator. Held:
(1) That the contracts were in violation of the National Labor
Relations Act and were appropriate subjects for the remedial
action of the Board authorized by § 10 of the Act. P. 359.
(2) An order of the Board precluding the employer from taking
any benefit of the contracts and from carrying out any of their
provisions the effect of which would be to infringe rights guaranteed by the Act, was valid, although the employees who made the
contracts were not parties to the Board's proceeding. P. 361.
(3) Such order does not foreclose the employees from taking any
action to secure an adjudication upon the contracts, nor prejudge
their rights in the event of such adjudication. P. 365.
(4) Section 10 (a) and (c) of the Act commits to the Board
the exclusive power to decide whether unfair labor practices have
been committed and, within the limits prescribed in that section, to
determine what action the employer must take to remove or avoid
their -consequences. P. 365.
(5) A provision of the order, requiring the employer to post
notice that the contracts with individual employees (who were not
parties to the proceedings) are "void and of no effect," should be
modified so as to say in lieu that the contracts were made in

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

351

Opinion of the Court.

violation of the Act, and that the employer will no longer offer,
solicit, enter into, continue, enforce, or attempt to enforce such
contracts with its employees; but this without prejudice to the
assertion by the employees of any legal' rights they may have
acquired under such contracts. P. 367.
(6) The Board has jurisdiction to deal with violations which
though not set up in the charge invoking its action, § 10 (b), are
continuations of violations there alleged, of the same class and for
the same objects. P. 367.
104 F. 2d 655, affirmed with modification.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 535, to review a judgment for the
enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations
Board.

Mr. Abraham Mann for petitioner.
Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson and Messrs. Charles Fahy and Laurence A.
Knapp were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the olinion of the Court.

Apart from the sufficiency of the evidence to support
an order of the National Labor Relations Board, the questions of importance presented for our decision are
whether the Board has authority to order an employer not
to enforce contracts with its employees, found to have
been procured in violation of the National Labor Relations Act, and to contain provisions violating that Act, in
the absence of the employees as parties to the proceeding;
and whether the Board has authority to make its order
relating to the contracts, although the unfair labor practices found to affect the contracts were not set up in the
charge presented to the Board, on the basis of which it
issued its complaint.
On August 2, 1937, 'the Bakery & Confectionery Workers International Union of America, Local Union No. 405,
a labor organization, affiliated with the American Federa-

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

tion of Labor, lodged with the National Labor Relations
Board an amended charge, alleging that petitioner had engaged in certain unfair labor practices in violation of the
National Labor Relations Act. After a complaint by the
Board charging petitioner with unfair labor practices had
been served October 7, 1937, and after hearings, the
Board found jurisdictional facts, which need not be repeated, and other facts which may be shortly summarized
as follows: Petitioner is engaged in business in the manufacture of licorice products which it sells and ships in commerce, employing at its Brooklyn, New York, plant about
one hundred and forty production employees. The Board
found that early in July, 1937, the Union began to secure
signatures of petitioner's employees to applications for
membership; that on July 14, 1937, ninety-nine of petitioner's one hundred and forty employees had signed applications for membership, designating the Union as the
applicant's representative for collective bargaining; that
the number had increased to one hundred and nine on
July 19th or 20th. On that date a meeting was held between representatives of the Union and officers of petitioner, at which the Union demands were presented.
The negotiations came to nothing and were promptly followed by an unsuccessful effort on the part of petitioner's
representatives to circulate among the employees a petition, nominating a committee to act as their collective
bargaining representative.
On July 29th a second meeting took place between representatives of the Union and the president and other
officers of the company, at which the petitioner declined
to recognize the Union as the bargaining representative
of all the employees, and declared that it would negotiate
with the Union only as the bargaining representative of
its members. The meeting adjourned without reaching any agreement. On August 2nd the employees went
out on strike. The plant was closed and not reopened

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

353

Opinion of the Court.

until the conclusion of the strike on August 25th. August 5th had been agreed upon for a third meeting, and
on the evening of August 2nd, after the strike had begun,
the Union representatives wrote to petitioner stating that
the Union was ready to meet with petitioner at any time
or place which it would designate "in order to mediate
the dispute and through collective bargaining arrive at
a mutually satisfactory agreement." Petitioner replied,
declaring that it believed the Union had called the strike.
It cancelled the meeting of August 5th and asserted that
it would not "set any further time for negotiations until
we have a letter from you informing us as to whether or
not this strike was instigated, ordered or approved by
your Union or officials of the Union." Representatives
of the Union denied that it had called the strike. The
Board found that the strike was the result of spontaneous
action by the employees because of dissatisfaction with
the course of negotiations between the Union and
petitioner.
On August 27th after the plant was reopened, petitioner sent a letter to each employee requesting him to
return to work on August 30th. On the same day petitioner's representative met with three employees who
stated that they were anxious to return to work, and
asked whether they could have their own committee and
bargain with petitioner. They were informed that if
they could obtain the authorization of a majority of the
employees, petitioner would deal with them. Thereafter, petitioner's president, at the request of one of the
three, prepared a form of letter designating a. committee
of workers as the Collective Bargaining Representatives
of the employees and revoking the authority to any other
organization. The letter was signed by the members of
the committee and one hundred and ten other employees,
and returned to petitioner on September 9th.
At a meeting with the Committee on September 10th
petitioner's president renewed proposals for a contract,
215234°-40-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

which he had made at the meetings with the Union representatives on July 20th and July 29th, stipulating for
a five per cent. wage increase, time and a half for overtime, and one week's vacation with pay. The Committee's only request related to pay for holidays and a reduction of the term of the contract from five to three
years, which was granted with some modification. As
finally agreed upon the contract purports to be made
between the petitioner, the Committee and "each and
every one of the employees." 1 Petitioner furnished the
Committee members with mimeographed copies of the
agreement, telling them to explain it to the best of their
ability to the employees, and giving explicit instructions
as to the manner in which the individual contracts were
to be executed. There was testimony by a number of
witnesses that petitioner's president informed the employees that he would not "protect their jobs and they
would not get five per cent. if they did not sign the
agreement." One group of fourteen employees asked for
'An officer of petitioner admitted that he had consulted with the
Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce in forming the contracts. The
contracts involved here follow the "Balleisen formula," said to be
devised by L. L. Balleisen, Industrial Secretary of the Chamber.
The contract "executed between the company and each workman
individually and not as a collective agreement with representatives of
the employees, as provided by the Act," National Labor Relations
Board v. Hopwood Retinning Co., 98 F. 2d 97, 100, has been held to
violate the Act in National Labor Relations Board'v. Hopwood Retinning Co., supra; National Labor Relations Board v. American Mfg.
Co., 106 F. 2d 61, 66; Matter of Atlas Bag & Burlap Co., 1 N. L.
R. B. 292; Matter of Cating Rope Works, Inc., 4 N. L. R. B. 1100;
Matter of Metropolitan Engineering Co., 4 N. L. R. B. 542; Matter
of David E. Kennedy, Inc., 6 N. L. R. B. 699; Matter of Art Crayon,
Inc., 7 N. L. R. B. 102; Matter of Eastern Footwear Corp., 8
N. L. R. B. 1245; Matter of American Numbering Machine Co., 10
N. L. R. B. 536; Matter of Centre Brass Works, Inc., 10 N. L. R. B.
1060; Matter of Fanny Farmer Candy Shops, Inc., 10 N. L. R. B.
288; Matter of National Meter Co., 11 N. L. R. B. 320.

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

355

Opinion of the Court.

representation on the Committee and were referred to
petitioner's president, who, in refusing the request, informed them that "the Committee had been picked
already. There is enough right now on the Committee."
The contract is stated to be directly between the petitioner and the individual employee and under it the
Committee as such has no rights or duties. It was signed
by the Committee and one hundred and eighteen employees. The Committee appears to have functioned only
so long as it was necessary to obtain the individual signatures on the contract. The benefits of the contract
were limited to those employees who signed. In return the
signers relinquished the right to strike, the right to demand a closed shop or signed agreement with any union.
The contract also contained provisions for arbitration as
to rate of wages and the number of regular hours of
employment per week by an arbitrator designated by and
mutually acceptable to petitioner and the Committee, but
provided that the "question as to the propriety of an employee's discharge is in no event to be one for arbitration
or mediation ..

From these subsidiary findings of fact the Board concluded that petitioner, by refusing to bargain collectively
with the Union on July 20th and July 29th and thereafter, had engaged in unfair labor practices within the
meaning of § 8 (5) of the Act; that petitioner, by coercing and intimidating employees in the exercise of their
rights to self-organization and collective bargaining, and
by persuading and coercing its employees to refrain from
becoming members of the Union and to sign. individual
contracts of employment, had engaged in an unfair labor
practice within the meaning of § 8 (1), of the Act, and
that by initiating, sponsoring and dominating a labor organization of its employees, the Collective Bargaining
Committee, it had engaged in unfair labor practices
within the meaning of § 8 (1) and (2) of the Act. The

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Board's order directed petitioner to desist from dominating and interfering with the administration of the
Collective Bargaining Committee, from recognizing the
Committee as representing petitioner's employees, from
giving effect to petitioner's contracts with the Committee
and with the individual employees, and from refusing to
bargain collectively with the Union. As affirmative relief, designed to effectuate the policy of the Act as authorized by § 10 (c), the Board ordered petitioner to bargain
collectively, on request, with the Union; to withdraw recognition from the Committee; to inform the Committee
and employees who had contracted individually that
"such contract constitutes a violation" of the Act; that
the employees are relieved from all obligations under it;
that petitioner will "no longer demand its performance"
and to post appropriate notices.
The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, upon
petition of the Board for enforcement of the order, directed that it be enforced except for a modification of
that part of the order which directed that petitioner recognize and bargain with the Union. The order of the
Court of Appeals directed that this part of the Board's
order be conditioned upon a determination in an election that the Union is still the choice as bargaining representative of a majority of the employees. 104 F. 2d
655.
Upon a petition which challenged the authority of the
Board to make so much of its order as related to the contracts with petitioner's employees, without making the
employees parties to the proceeding, we granted certiorari
October 9, 1939, because of the importance of the question
in the administration of the National Labor Relations
Act, and because of an asserted misapplication of the
principles of National Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261 and Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 305

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

357

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 197. Of lesser moment are questions, also raised
by the petition,2 whether the Board's finding that the
Union was still the authorized bargaining representative
of a majority of petitioner's employees, is supported by
substantial evidence and, if not, whether the Circuit
Court of Appeals properly directed the Board to conduct
an election to determine whether the Union still represents a majority of petitioner's employees, and, finally,
whether the jurisdiction of the Board is limited to such
unfair labor practices as are set up in the charge presented to the Board so as to preclude its determination
that the creation of the Organization Committee and petitioner's contracts with individual employees involved
unfair labor practices, since both occurred after the charge
was lodged with the Board and after its complaint was
served on petitioner.
1. The Board found that petitioner, on July 20th and
29th, 1937, and thereafter, refused to recognize and to
bargain collectively with the representative (the Union)
of a majority of its employees. If we assume, as petitioner argues, that a majority of its employees had freely
revoked their designation of the Union as bargaining representative and chosen in its stead the Collective Bargaining Committee, these circumstances do not militate
against the findings of the Board that the Union represented the employees during July and August when the
petitioner refused to bargain with it, nor do they relieve
petitioner from the consequences of its refusal to bargain,
which was an unfair labor practice.
Since the Court of Appeals has confirmed the findings
of the Board, there is no occasion here to review the evidence in detail. Cincinnati,H. & D. Ry. Co. v. Interstate
'Petitioner's brief assails the Board's order on numerous grounds
not set up in his petition for certiorari. We limit our review to the
questions specifically raised in the petition. Rule 38. See General
Pictures Co. v. Western Electric Co., 304 U. S. 175, 177, 178.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 142, 154; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S.
441, 456. It is enough, with the findings not challenged,
that there is evidence that by July 20th one hundred and
nine of petitioner's one hundred and forty employees had
signed applications for membership in the Union, designating it as the applicant's representative for collective
bargaining, and that on that date negotiation began between petitioner and the Union representatives which was
continued until August. The evidence shows that attempts by petitioner between that date and July 20th to
circulate a petition among its employees nominating a
committee to act as their collective bargaining representative failed. A few employees signed. Then, a
number cancelled their signatures. The petition was returned to the petitioner's superintendent and was
destroyed by an assistant secretary of the company.
There is testimony that at the meeting with the Union
representatives on July 29th petitioner's president declined to recognize the Union as the bargaining representative of all the employees, and declared that he
would negotiate with it only as the bargaining representative of the Union members, refusing to bargain with
it as the representative of all the employees, a plain
violation of the Act. §§ 8 (5), 9 (a). This was followed by petitioner's refusal, on August 2nd, to negotiate
with Union representatives. There was also evidence
from which the Board could have found that the negotiations on July 20th and July 29th were not entered into
by the petitioner in good faith, and were but thinly disguised refusals to treat with the Union representatives.
In view of the evidence already noted of the choice of
the Union as bargaining representative by a large majority of the employees between July 14th and 20th, of
the complete failure of petitioner's efforts to disturb that
representation between the 20th and the 29th, there was

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

359

Opinion of the Court.

substantial evidence to support the Board's conclusion
that the Union was the choice as bargaining representative of appellant's employees during July and in August,
at least until the 5th, when petitioner refused to treat
with the Union.
As will presently appear, the bargaining committee
and the contracts obtained through its mediation were
both the products of unfair labor practices, and the Committee, under the Board's order, was not entitled to recognition as the bargaining representative of the employees.
Such injury, if any, as the petitioner might have suffered from the Board's order requiring it to recognize
and bargain with the Union, is avoided by the direction
of the Court of Appeals that this part of the order be
conditioned upon a determination by an election that the
Union is still the choice of a majority of the employees.
The Board has not petitioned for certiorari and does not
complain of this direction.
2. The petition for certiorari does not assail the findings of the Board that petitioner's officials initiated the
organization of the Committee, and that it "sponsored
and dominated the formation of the Committee and
thereafter dominated its administration and contributed
support to it." We shall not re-examine those issues
here, more than to say that the evidence discloses that the
purpose of creating the Committee was to secure the contracts and by the contracts the Committee was left without any further function to perform except to join with
the employer in choosing an arbitrator for the arbitration of specified labor disputes.
But the petition raises the question whether the terms
of the contract, as the Court of Appeals held, violate the
National Labor Relations Act, and it challenges the authority of the Board because of the absence of the individual employees, as parties, to make any order respecting
the contracts. The contracts, as the Board found, were

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

not only procured through the mediation of a companydominated labor organization, but they were the means
adopted to "eliminate the Union as the collective bargaining agency of its employees." We think it plain also
that by their terms they imposed illegal restraints upon
the employees' rights to organize and bargain collectively
guaranteed by §§ 7 and 8 of the Act.
By the contract each employee agreed not "to demand
a closed shop or a signed agreement by his employer with
any Union." This provision foreclosed the employee
from bargaining for a closed shop or a signed agreement
with the employer, frequent subjects of negotiation between employers and employees, see Consolidated Edison
Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, supra, 236 et seq.;
National Labor Relations Board v. Sands Mfg. Co., 306
U. S.332, 342; cf. Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation No. 40, 300 U. S. 515, 553, 555, note 7. In addition the restriction upon the employee's right to ask a
signed agreement extending only to agreements with "any
union" is in plain conflict with the public policy of the
Act to encourage the procedure of collective bargaining,
see § 1, since it discriminates against labor organizations
by forbidding signed contracts with labor unions while
it permits them with the individual workers. See Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations Board,
supra, 236.
It likewise forestalls collective bargaining with respect
to discharged employees, first providing that a discharged
employee may submit to the employer facts indicating
that his discharge was unreasonable and then stipulating
that the 'question as to the propriety of an employee's
discharge is in no event to be one for arbitration or
mediation." The effect of this clause was to discourage,
if not forbid, any presentation of the discharged employee's grievances to appellant through a labor organization or his chosen representatives, or in any way
except personally.

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

361

Opinion of the Court.

Since the contracts were the fruits of unfair labor practices, stipulated for the renunciation by the employees of
rights guaranteed by the Act, and were a continuing
means of thwarting the policy of the Act, they were appropriate subjects for the affirmative remedial action of
the Board authorized by § 10 of the Act. National Labor
Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, Inc.,
supra, 265; National Labor Relations Board v. Newport
News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co., 308 U. S. 241.
Hence the Board was free by its order to direct that the
appellant should take no benefit from the contracts unless
it was without authority to act because the individual
signers of the contracts had not been made parties to the
proceeding. It is urged that in the absence of the employees who signed the contract, the Board was powerless to declare it void and of no effect as to those employees, and that consequently it could make no order
forbidding petitioner to make use of the contracts as the
means of defeating the policy and purposes of the Act.
Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, supra, is not decisive of this question. There,
page 236, after pointing out that the Board's "power to
command affirmative action is remedial, not punitive,
and is to be exercised in the aid of the Board's authority
to restrain violations and as a means of removing or
avoiding the consequences of violation where those consequences are of a kind to thwart the purposes of the
Act," decision was rested specifically on the ground that
"here, there is no basis for a finding that the contracts
with the Brotherhood and its locals were a consequence
of the unfair labor practices found by the Board or that
these contracts in themselves thwart any policy of the
Act or that their cancellation would in any way make
the order to cease the specified practices any more
effective."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

It is elementary that it is not within the power of any
tribunal to make a binding adjudication of the rights in
personam of parties not brought before it by due process
of law. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Riverside & Dan
River Cotton Mills v. Menefee, 237 U. S. 189; cf. Arizona
v. California,298 U. S. 558, 571, 572. For that reason
there is no occasion to consider now how far the contract
rights, if any, of the employees may be passed upon by
the Board and their exercise restricted by its order in proceedings to which the employees have been made parties.
As the Board's power can be effectively exercised only
upon petitioner, the employees are entitled to notice and
hearing only if the statute requires them to be made
parties to the proceeding. Consequently the only question we are called on to decide is whether, in the circumstances of this case, the exercise of the Board's authority
is such a departure from accepted modes of procedure as
rightly to be regarded as beyond the power conferred on
the Board by § 10 of the Act.
The proceeding authorized to be taken by the Board
under the National Labor Relations Act is not for the
adjudication of private rights. Amalgamated Utility
Workers v. Consolidated Edison Co., ante, p. 261; H. Rept.
No. 1147, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., Committee on Labor, p.
24; cf. Federal Trade Commission v. Klesner, 280 U. S.
19. It has few of the indicia of a private litigation and
makes no requirement for the presence in it of any private
party other than the employer charged with an unfair
labor practice. The Board acts in a public capacity to
give effect to the declared public policy of the Act to
eliminate and prevent obstructions to interstate commerce by encouraging collective bargaining and by protecting the "exercise by workers of full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating
the terms and conditions of their employment. .. ." § 1.

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

363

Opinion of the Court.

The immediate object of the proceeding is to prevent
unfair labor practices which, as defined by §§ 7, 8, are
practices tending to thwart the declared policy of the
Act. To that end the Board is authorized to order the
employer to desist from such practices, and by § 10 (c) it
is given authority to take such affirmative remedial action
as will effectuate the policies of the Act. National Labor
Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines,
supra.
In a proceeding so narrowly restricted to the protection
and enforcement of public rights, there is little s.ope or
need for the traditional rules governing the joinder of
parties in litigation determining private rights. Ordinarily where the rights involved in litigation arise upon
a contract, courts refuse to adjudicate the rights of some
of the parties to the contract if the others are not before
it. Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 140; Carroll v. New
York Life Ins. Co., 94 F. 2d 333; cf. Waterman v. CanalLouisiana Bank Co., 215 U. S. 33, 48. Such a judgment
or decree would be futile if rendered, since the contract
rights asserted by those present in the litigation could
neither be defined, aided nor enforced by a decree which
did not bind those not present.
But different considerations may apply even in private
litigation where the rights asserted arise independently
of any contract which an adverse party may have made
with another, not a party to the suit, even though their
assertion may affect the ability of the former to fulfill his
contract. The rights asserted in the suit and those arising upon the contract are distinct and separate, so that
the court may, in a proper case, proceed to judgment
without joining other parties to the contract, shaping its
decree in such manner as to preserve the rights of those
not before it. General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore Ry.,
260 U. S.261, 285, 286; American Brake Shoe & Foundry
Co. v. Interborough Rapid Transit Co., 10 F. Supp. 512,

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

515, aff'd 76 F. 2d 1002; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Montana, 92 F. 2d 693, 698; Broydex Co. v. Food Machinery
Co., 92 F. 2d 787, 789; Commercial Casualty Ins. Co. v.
Lawhead, 62 F. 2d 928, 931, 932; cf. Hamilton v. Savannah, F. & W. Ry. Co., 49 F. 412; Howe v. Howe & Owen
Ball Bearing Co., 154 F. 820, 828; Alcazar Amusement
Co. v. Mudd & Colley Amusement Co., 204 Ala. 509;
86 So. 209; E. L. Husting Co. v. Coca-Cola Co., 194 Wis.
311; 216 N.W. 833; Nokol Co. v. Becker, 318 Mo. 292;
300 S.W. 1108.
Here the right asserted by the Board is not one arising
upon or derived from the contracts between petitioner
and its employees. The Board asserts a public right
vested in it as a public body, charged in the public interest with the duty of preventing unfair labor practices.
The public right and the duty extend not only to the
prevention of unfair labor practices by the employer in
the future, but to the prevention of his enjoyment of any
advantage which he has gained by violation of the Act,
whether it be a company union or an unlawful contract
with employees, as the means of defeating the statutory
policy and purpose. Obviously employers cannot set at
naught the National Labor Relations Act by inducing
their workmen to agree not to demand performance of
the duties which it imposes or by insisting, more than in
a private litigation, that the employer's obedience to the
Act cannot be compelled in the absence of the workers
who have thus renounced their rights.
The Board's order runs only against petitioner. It
directs that it shall cease recognizing the Committee as
the representative of any of the employees for the purpose of dealing with petitioner concerning grievances,
labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment or conditions of work; that it shall not "give effect"
to the contracts with its employees; that it notify each

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

365

Opinion of the Court.

employee that the contract violates the Act and that
petitioner "is therefore obliged to discontinue such contract as a term or condition of employment; and the employees are released from its obligations and the respondent [petitioner here] will no longer demand its performance," and that it "will no longer offer, solicit, enter into,
continue, enforce or attempt to enforce such contracts
with its employees."
The effect of the Board's order, as we construe it, is to
preclude the petitioner from taking any benefit of the
contracts which were procured through violation of the
Act and which are themselves continuing means of violating it, and from carrying out any of the contract provisions, the effect of which would be to infringe the rights
guaranteed by the National Labor Relations Act. It does
not foreclose the employees from taking any action to
secure an adjudication upon the contracts, nor prejudge
their rights in the event of such adjudication. We do not
now consider their nature and extent. It is sufficient to
say here that it will not be open to any tribunal to compel the employer to perform the acts, which, even though
he has bound himself by contract to do them, would
violate the Board's order or be inconsistent with any part
of it. Section 10 (a) and (c) of the Act commits to the
Board the exclusive power to decide whether unfair labor
practices have been committed and to determine the
action the employer must take to remove or avoid the
consequences of his unfair labor practice.
In these respects the order does not go beyond those
in suits brought by the United States to restrain violations of the Sherman Act, where the injunction was broad
enough to prevent the offender from carrying out contracts with persons not parties to the suits. United Shoe
Machinery Corp. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451, 456;
ParamountFamous Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30;

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. United States, 306 U. S. 208,
220. Similarly, in proceedings before the Federal Trade
Commission, the order restraining unfair methods of competition may preclude the performance of outstanding
contracts by the offender. Such orders have never been
challenged because the holders of the contracts were not
made parties. E. g. Butterick Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 4 F. 2d 910; Q. R. S. Music Co. v. Federal Trade
Commission, 12 F. 2d 730; J. W. Kobi Co. v. Federal
Trade Commission, 23 F. 2d 41. Cf. Federal Trade
Commission v. Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S. 441. In
VirginianRailway Co. v. System FederationNo. 40, supra,
539, 540; 11 F. Supp. 621, 623, the effect of the decree was
to order the employer to deal exclusively with the Federation, although the employer had a contract with an association not a party to the suit, found to be a dominated
labor organization. In every case the third persons were
left free to assert such legal rights as they might have
acquired under their contracts. But in all, the public
right was vindicated by restraining the unlawful actions
of the defendant even though the restraint prevented his
performance of the contracts.
As the National Labor Relations Act contemplates no
more than the protection of the public rights which it
creates and defines, and as the Board's order is directed
solely to the employer and is ineffective to determine any
private rights of the employees and leaves them free to
assert such legal rights as they may have acquired under
their contracts, in any appropriate tribunal, we think they
are not indispensable parties for purposes of the Board's
order and the statute does not require their presence as
parties to the present proceeding and there was no abuse
of the Board's discretion in its failure to make them
parties.' It is unnecessary to consider now to what ex8 Orders of the Board have been upheld which direct the employer
to cease giving effect to such contracts, although no notice was given

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

367

Opinion of the Court.

tent or by what procedure it would be necessary to make
the employees parties to a proceeding pending before the
Board in the event that it undertook to make an order
directed to the employees foreclosing any asserted rights
under their contracts in order to effectuate the policies of
the Act. Compare the procedure used in New England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 197.
The Board's order to post notices requires the notice to
announce that the contracts with the employees are "void
and of no effect." In order that the notice may more
accurately represent the affirmative action of the Board
and that misinterpretation of its action may be avoided,
the order appealed from should be so modified as to omit
the quoted words and direct that clause (3) of the Board's
order, numbered 2 (d) specifying the contents of the
notice, read as follows:
(3) that the individual contracts of employment entered
into between the respondent and some of its employees
were made by the respondent in violation of the National
Labor Relations Act; and that the respondent will no
longer offer, solicit, enter into, continue, enforce, or attempt to enforce such contracts with its employees; but
this is without prejudice to the assertion by the employees
of any legal rights they may have acquired under such
contracts.
3. The amended charge, which initiated the present
proceeding pursuant to § 10 (b) of the Act, was lodged
to the company-dominated labor organizations or the employees.
National Labor Relations Board v. Hopwood Retinning Co., 98 F. 2d
97, 99, 100; National Labor Relations Board v. Eagle Mfg. Co., 99
F. 2d 930; National Labor Relations Board v. Ronni Parfum, Inc.,
104 F. 2d 1017; National Labor Relations Board v. Stackpole Carbon
Co., 105 F. 2d 167, 169; Titan Metal Mfg. Co. v. National Labor
Relations Board, 106 F. 2d 254. Contra: National Labor Relations
Board v. Cowell Portland Cement Co., 108 F. 2d 198; National Labor
Relations Board v. Sterling Electric Motors, Inc., 109 F. 2d 194;
5 Labor Relations Reporter 600.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

with the Board by the Union on August 2, 1937, before
petitioner had succeeded in organizing the Committee
and in securing the signatures of its employees to the
contracts, but after petitioner's unsuccessful attempt in
July to deal with its employees independently of the
Union. The charge, in addition to other unfair labor
practices not now material, alleged that petitioner had
"coerced and attempted to coerce its employees into signing individual contracts with the said company; in that
the said company has called meetings of its employees
and has compelled said employees to attend said meetings, and has attempted to compel said employees to
form committees, not of their own choosing, to bargain
collectively with the said company; . . ."
The complaint elaborated the charge with particularity,
setting forth that petitioner had formed and initiated a
labor organization of its employees, dominated and interfered with the administration of that organization, and
had continued to do so down to the date of the complaint,
October 2, 1937; that petitioner "has made signing of
individual contracts a condition of employment"; and
that by these and other acts petitioner "is interfering
with, restraining, and coercing its employees in exercise
of the rights guaranteed by § 7 of the Act."
Petitioner contends that the charge is a jurisdictional
prerequisite to the complaint and subsequent proceedings, and that they are restricted to the specific unfair
labor practices alleged in the charge. See National Labor
Relations Board v. Hop'wood Retinning Co., 98 F. 2d 97.
It argues that in the proceedings before the Board there
was a fatal departure from the charge insofar as the
Board's finding and order are concerned with the subsequent organization of the Committee and the signing
of the employees' contracts. The argument is addressed
only to want of power in the Board and raises no question of unfairness to petitioner in the preparation and
prosecution of his case.

NAT. LICORICE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
350

DOUGLAS,

369

J., dissenting.

It is unnecessary for us to consider now how far the
statutory requirement of a charge as a condition precedent to a complaint excludes from the subsequent
proceedings matters existing when the charge was filed,
but not included in it. Whatever restrictions the requirements of a charge may be thought to place upon subsequent proceedings by the Board, we can find no warrant
in the language or purposes of the Act for saying that it
precludes the Board from dealing adequately with unfair
labor practices which are related to those alleged in the
charge and which grow out of them while the proceeding
is pending before the Board. The violations alleged in
the complaint and found by the Board were but a prolongation of the attempt to form the company union and
to secure the contracts alleged in the charge. All are of
the same class of violations as those set up in the charge
and were continuations of them in pursuance of the same
objects. The Board's jurisdiction having been invoked
to deal with the first steps, it had authority to deal with
those which followed as a consequence of those already
taken. We think the court below correctly held that
"the Board was within its power in treating the whole
sequence as one."
We find it unnecessary to discuss other points raised by
the petitioner. We have considered them and find them
without merit.
The order below will be modified as directed by this
opinion and as so modified it will be affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS:

MR. JUSTICE BLACK and I see no reason or occasion for

the modification of the order.
-.

215234*-40--24

For as stated in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

opinion of the Court, the Board has not undertaken to
pass on the rights of the employees under those contracts.
Nor has any employee urged, here or below, that the
order affects his contractual rights or casts a cloud on
them. Whether the employees would be indispensable
parties to the proceeding should the Board in order to
effectuate the policies of the Act undertake to nullify
their rights is a question on which we want to reserve
decision until the Board passes on it and until it is put
in issue by persons who have a standing to raise it.

PARAMINO LUMBER CO. ET AL. V. MARSHALL,
DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 271.

Argued January 30, 1940.-Decided March 11, 1940.

1. A private Act of Congress which, after an award of compensation
for disability made by a deputy commissioner under the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Compensation Act had become
final by expiration of the time for review, authorized and directed
the Employees' Compensation Commission to review the order and
issue a new one, whereupon there was awarded additional compensation for disability continuing beyond the date as of which
by the prior order it was deemed to have terminated, held, as to
the employer and insurance carrier, not violative of the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment. Pp. 374, 378.
2. The Act was validly enacted by Congress to cure a defect in
administration developed in the handling of a claim compensable
under the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
P. 379.
3. The enactment by Congress of private Acts, except bills of attainder and grants of nobility, is not forbidden by the Federal
Constitution. P. 380.
4. The contention that the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment should be read into the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment, and that the Act denies equal protection,
is rejected. Pp. 379-380.

