OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

cide, for its claim for refund was based exclusively and
solely on the ground that it was entitled to an allowance
for obsolescence. Hence, in absence of a waiver by the
government, Tucker v. Alexander, 275 U. S. 228, or a

proper amendment, petitioner is precluded in this suit
from resting its claim on another ground. United States
v. Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co., 283 U. S. 269.

There has

been no amendment and there are no facts establishing
a waiver.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR.

JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

YEARSLEY ET

AL.

v. W. A. ROSS CONSTRUCTION

CO.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 156.

Argued January 3, 4, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. A contractor working for improvement of river navigation in
conformity with a contract with the Government authorized by
a valid Act of Congress, is not liable for injury resulting to private
riparian land, even though what is so done amounts to a taking
of property by the Government. P. 20.
Where an agent or officer of the Government purporting to act
on its behalf has been held to be liable for his conduct causing
injury to another, the ground of liability has been found to be
either that he exceeded his authority or that it was not validly
conferred.
2. For a taking of private property in the course of authorized
navigation improvement, the Government impliedly promises to
pay just compensation, recoverable by suit against the United
States in the Court of Claims. P. 21.

YEARSLEY v. ROSS CONSTR. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

18

3. The remedy thus afforded is plain and adequate, and satisfies
the Fifth Amendment. Payment in advance of taking is not
required by the Amendment. Pp. 21, 22.
103 F. 2d 589, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

308 U.

S. 538, to review the reversal of

a judgment recovered by the present petitioners in an
action against the respondent for damages to their
riparian lands.
Mr. Robert Van Pelt, with whom Mr. Ernest B. Perry
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Clay C. Rogers for respondent.
By leave of Court, Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant
Attorney General Shea, and Messrs. Warner W. Gardner,
Thomas Harris,and Frederick T. Johnson filed a brief on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, in support
of respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In this action, brought in the state court of Nebraska
and removed to the federal court, petitioners sought to
recover damages upon the ground that the respondent
company had built dikes in the Missouri River and,
using large boats with paddles and pumps to produce
artificial erosion, had washed away a part of petitioners'
land. Respondent alleged in defense that the work was
done pursuant to a contract with the United States Government, and under the direction of the Secretary of War
and the supervision of the Chief of Engineers of the
United States, for the purpose of improving the navigation of the Missouri River, as authorized by an Act of
Congress. Petitioners in reply alleged that the contract
did not contemplate the taking of their land without just

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

compensation and that the acts of the contractor resulted
in the destruction of petitioners' property in violation
of their rights under the Fifth Amendment of the Federal
Constitution.
Petitioners had judgment which the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed. 103 F. 2d 589. Certiorari was granted
because of alleged conflict with applicable decisions of
this Court. 308 U. S. 538. The Government has been
permitted to appear as amicus curiae.
The Circuit Court of Appeals found that the evidence
established "that two dikes built in the river above, and
one dike built opposite, their (petitioners') land had diverted the channel or the current of the river from the
Iowa shore to the Nebraska shore" and that as a result
the "accretion land" of petitioners "to the extent of perhaps 95 acres had been eroded and carried away." There
was evidence tending to show that in extending the dike
opposite petitioners' land, the contractor, "apparently
to keep open an adequate channel for navigation between
the end of the dike and the shore," had accelerated the
erosion "by using the paddle wheels of its steamboats
to increase the action of the current." But there was no
evidence, as the Court of Appeals said, that this "paddle
washing" had done "anything more than hasten the inevitable." The Court of Appeals also found it to be
undisputed "that the work which the contractor had done
in the river bed was all authorized and directed by the
Government of the United States for the purpose of improving the navigation of this navigable river." It is
also conceded that the work thus authorized and directed
by the governmental officers was performed pursuant to
the Act of Congress of January 21, 1927, 44 Stat. 1010,
1013.
In that view, it is clear that if this authority to carry
out the project was validly conferred, that is, if what was
done was within the constitutional power of Congress,

YEARSLEY v. ROSS CONSTR. CO.
18

Opinion of the Court.

there is no liability on the part of the contractor for
executing its will. See Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land
& Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, 283; Lamar v. Browne,
92 U. S. 187, 199; The Paquete Habana, 189 U. S. 453,
465. Where an agent or officer of the Government purporting to act on its behalf has been held to be liable
for his conduct causing injury to another, the ground
of liability has been found to be either that he exceeded
his authority or that it was not validly conferred. Philadelphia Company v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 619, 620.
See United States v. Lee, 106 U. S.196, 220, 221; Noble
v. Union River Logging R. Co., 147 U. S.165, 171, 172;
Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S.204, 222; Scranton v. Wheeler,
179 U. S.141, 152; American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S.94, 108, 110.
Petitioners present the question whether the building
of the dikes and the erosion of their land, because of the
consequent diversion of the current of the river, constituted a taking of their property for which compensation
must be made. We do not find it necessary to pass upon
that question, for if the authorized action in this instance
does constitute a taking of property for which there must
be just compensation under the Fifth Amendment, the
Government has impliedly promised to pay that compensation and has afforded a remedy for its recovery by a
suit in the Court of Claims. 28 U. S. C. 250. United
States v. Great Falls Manufacturing Co., 112 U. S. 645,
656, 657; Great Falls Manufacturing Co. v. Attorney
General, 124 U. S. 581, 600; United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S.445, 465, 466; Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S.
121, 129, 130; Hurley v. Kincaid, 285 U. S.95, 104, 105.
"The Fifth Amendment does not entitle him [the owner]
to be paid in advance of the taking" and the statute affords a plain and adequate remedy. Hurley v. Kincaid,
supra. It follows that as the Government in such a case
promises just compensation and provides a complete

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

remedy, action which constitutes the taking of property
is within its constitutional power and there is no ground
for holding its agent liable who is simply acting under
the authority thus validly conferred. The action of the
agent is "the act of the government." United States v.
Lynah, supra.
This principle has been applied under the statute providing compensation for the use by the Government of
patented inventions without license of the owner. Act of
June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 423. In Crozier v. Krupp, 224
U. S. 290, 305, the Court said: "The adoption by the
United States of the wrongful act of an officer is of course
an adoption of the act when and as committed, and causes
such act of the officer to be, in virtue of the statute, a
rightful appropriation by the Government, for which
compensation is provided." In view of later decisions limiting the scope of that statute (Cramp & Sons v. Curtis Turbine Co., 246 U. S.28; Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. v.
Simon, 246 U. S.46), Congress amended the statute so as
to insure complete compensation by the Government and
thus it operated to relieve the contractor from liability
of every kind "for the infringement of patents in manufacturing anything for the Government." The provision
for the recovery from the United States of "entire" compensation "emphasized the exclusive and comprehensive
character of the remedy provided." Richmond Screw
Anchor Co. v. United States, 275 U. S.331, 343.
So, in the case of a taking by the Government of private
property for public use such as petitioners allege here, it
cannot be doubted that the remedy to obtain compensation from the Government is as comprehensive as the
requirement of the Constitution, and hence it excludes
liability of the Government's representatives lawfully
acting on its behalf in relation to the taking.
The Government contends that in this instance there
has been no taking of petitioners' lands within the mean-

CARPENTER v. WABASH RY. CO.
Syllabus.

18

ing of the Fifth Amendment. The Circuit Court of Appeals took that view, holding that petitioners had sustained merely "consequential damages from the deflection
of waters by reason of structures lawfully constructed
in aid of navigation." Petitioners, as we have said, combat this ruling. We do not undertake to review it or the
authorities cited by the parties and the Government in
that relation, for petitioners' claim, resting upon the
theory that there has been a "taking," has been found
untenable, and there is no contention, or basis for one,
that if the contractor was acting for the Government in
prosecuting its work in aid of navigation without the
taking of property, the contractor would be subject to the
asserted liability.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in reversing that of the District Court is affirmed but upon the
grounds stated in this opinion.
Affirmed.

CARPENTER v. WABASH RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI

No. 230.

ET AL.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Argued January 9, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. Applicable legislation enacted while the case was pending for
review will be enforced by the appellate court. P. 26.
2. The amendment of ยง 77 (n) of the Bankruptcy Act, approved
Aug. 11, 1939, and providing that ". . . in equity receiverships
of railroad corporations now or hereafter pending in any court
of the United States, claims for personal injuries to employees of
a railroad corporation ... shall be preferred and paid out of
the assets of such railroad corporation as operating expenses of
such railroad," held applicable in this case and within the power of
Congress.

P. 27.

3. Claims of superior equities may be accorded priority of payment from the earnings of a railroad in an equity receivership,
"although they arose prior to the receivership. Congress
may

