OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

344

309 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

HELVERING,
CERTIORARI

COMMISSIONER OF
REVENUE, v. WOOD.

TO THE CIRCUIT
SECOND

No. 384.

INTERNAL

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 5, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.

1. Section 166 of the Revenue Act of 1934, providing that the income
from a trust shall be taxable to the grantor where "at any time
the power to revest in the grantor title to any part of the corpus
of the trust is vested" in him is inapplicable in the absence of such
power, though the term of the trust be short and the corpus will
soon revert to the grantor. A mere reversion is not a power to
revest within the meaning of § 166. P. 347.
2. Having invoked before the Board of Tax Appeals and the court
below the comparatively narrow provisions of § 166 of the
Revenue Act of 1934, to sustain the tax in question, and having
expressly waived reliance on any other .section, the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue may not resort here for the first time to the
broader provisions of § 22 (a). P. 348.
104 F. 2d 1013, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 543, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals (37 B. T. A. 1065),
which reversed a determination of a deficiency in income

tax.
Mr. Warner W. Gardner, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, L. W. Post, and Richard H. Demuth were

on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. George M. Wolfson and Dean G. Acheson for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

This case, like Helvering v. Clifford, ante, p. 331, is here

on certiorari, the problems in the two cases being the same

HELVERING v. WOOD.
344

Opinion of the Court.

in certain essential respects. In April 1931 respondent,
who owned twenty-five shares of stock of Book-of-theMonth Club, Inc., made himself trustee of those shares
under an agreement which was to expire in three years'
or earlier on the death of either him or his wife. By the
trust he was to "hold, invest, and reinvest" the shares, to
"collect the net income therefrom" and to pay it to his
wife. He had the power to "retain" the stock or to "sell"
it or "any part thereof" at such "time and on such terms"
as he should "deem proper." 2 It was provided that his
power of investment or reinvestment of "any of the property or moneys held in trust" was not to be restricted by
any law governing investments by trustees. He was also
given power to "fix and determine" the value of the property for all purposes of the trust and to determine
"whether any property or money received or held in trust
shall be treated as capital or income, and the mode in
which any expense incidental to the execution of the trust
is to be borne as between capital and income," with the
proviso, however, that stock dividends and subscription
rights should be treated as principal. He was prohibited
from receiving any commissions with respect to principal
or income; and an exculpatory clause purported to protect
him against any loss except that occasioned by his wilful
misconduct. He had the power to appoint a substitute
trustee.' On termination of the trust "all property then
held in trust" was to go to him. The trust contained no
power of revocation nor any power to revest in the grantor
at any time, prior to the date of termination, title to any
part of the corpus.
1 In
2His

1932 the term was extended to five years from April, 1931.
right to sell was subject to a collateral agreement, not material

here, with one Scherman, granting Scherman a preemptive right in
case respondent decided to sell.
'No substitute trustee was, however, appointed, respondent continuing to act as trustee until termination of the trust in 1936.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U.S.

During 1934 respondent paid over to his wife $8,750,
which was the entire income from the trust for that year.
She included it in her income tax return. The Commissioner, being of the opinion that the income was taxable
to respondent, determined a deficiency in his 1934 return.
Respondent appealed to the Board of Tax Appeals which
held that petitioner was in error (37 B. T. A. 1065).
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed (104 F. 2d 1013)
on the authority of United States v. First National Bank,
74 F. 2d 360.
Petitioner maintains that the trust income is taxable
to respondent either under § 166 or § 22 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 680) or both.
By § 166 the income from a trust is taxable to the
grantor where "at any time the power to revest in the
grantor title to any part of the corpus of the trust is
vested" in him or in any person "not having a substantial adverse interest in the disposition of such part of
the corpus or the income therefrom." ' Petitioner has
not undertaken to establish that under New York law,
which governs this trust, respondent had the power to
revoke it prior to the end of the term. But in his contention that the trust here involved is covered by § 166,
petitioner points out that there is no practical difference
between a revocable trust and one certain to be terminated soon. And he argues that it would not be sensible
'Sec. 166 reads in full:
"Where at any time the power to revest in the grantor title to any
part of the corpus of the trust is vested"(1) in the grantor, either alone or in conjunction with any person
not having a substantial adverse interest in the disposition of such
part of the corpus or the income therefrom, or
"(2) in any person not having a substantial adverse interest in the
disposition of such part of the corpus or the income therefrom,
then the income of such part of the trust shall be included in computing the net income of the grantor."

HELVERING v. WOOD.
344

Opinion of the Court.

to impute to Congress a purpose to impose the tax when
the grantor has an executory power to revest title in himself but to withhold the tax when the grantor, by provisions in the trust deed, has already exercised that
power.
Our difficulty lies not in an inability to see the similarity of those situations but in being able to say that Congress treated them the same under § 166. A power to
revest or revoke may in economic fact be the equivalent
of a reversion. But at least in the law of estates they
are by no means synonymous. For, generally speaking,
the power to revest or to revoke an existing estate is
discretionary with the donor; a reversion is the residue
left in the grantor on determination of a particular estate.
See Tiffany, Real Property (2nd ed.) § 129 et seq.,
§ 316 et seq. Congress seems to have drawn § 166 with
that distinction in mind, for mere reversions are not
specifically mentioned. Whether as a matter of policy
such nice distinctions should be perpetuated in a tax
law by selecting one type of trust but not the other for
special treatment is not for us. We have only the responsibility of carrying out the Congressional mandate.
And where Congress has drawn a distinction, however
nice, it is not proper for us to obliterate it. That seems
to us to be the case here. Whether wisely or not, Congress confined § 166 to trusts where there was a "power
to revest." The problem of interpretation under § 166
is therefore quite different from that under § 22 (a).
The former is narrowly confined to a special class; the
latter by broad, sweeping language is all inclusive. Helvering v. Clifford, supra. Accordingly, the wide range
for definition and specification under the latter is lacking
under § 166. And so far as § 166 is concerned no apparent or lurking ambiguity requires or permits us to
divine a broader purpose than that expressed. The legis-

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

lative history corroborates this conclusion. When the
1934 Act was before the House Committee, the Treasury
recommended that income from short term trusts and
from revocable trusts should be taxable to the creator.5
The Congress adopted the latter 6 by an appropriate
amendment to § 166; but it did not select the former for
special treatment. When such clear choice of ideas has
been made in the drafting of a specific provision of the
law, its language must be taken at its face value. Sec.
166 is therefore not applicable to this trust since respondent is given no power to recall the corpus. He or his
estate gets it at the end of the term, on the death of his
wife, or on his own death-whichever is the earliest.
For a wholly different reason, petitioner's argument
based on § 22 (a) must fail. The Board of Tax Appeals
purported to place its decision solely on § 166 and § 167
of the Act. Petitioner in his assignments of error specifically mentioned only § 166 and § 167, not § 22 (a). In
his brief before the Circuit Court of Appeals petitioner
expressly waived reliance upon any section other than
'Revenue Revision, 1934, Hearings before the Committee on Ways
& Means, H. R. 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 151. The recommendation
read: "The income from short-term trusts and trusts which are
revocable by the creator at the expiration of a short period after
notice by him should be made taxable to the creator of the trust."
Conference Rep. No. 1385, H. R. 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 24:
"Under existing law, the income from a revocable trust is taxable
to the grantor only where such grantor (or a person not having a
substantial adverse interest in the trust) has the power within the
taxable year to revest in the grantor title to any part of the corpus
of the trust. Under the terms of some trusts, the power to revoke
cannot be exercised within the taxable year, except upon advance
notice delivered to the trustee during the preceding taxable year.
If this notice is not given within the preceding taxable year, the
courts have held that the grantor is not required under existing law
to include the trust income for the taxable year in his return. The
Senate amendments require the income from trusts of this type to be
reported by the grantor. The House recedes."

HELVERING v. WOOD.
344

Opinion of the Court.

§ 166. Though petitioner in his petition for certiorari
relied on § 22 (a), respondent in opposition thereto took
the position that that point was not available to petitioner here as it was not raised below. In view of these
facts, especially the express waiver below, we do not think
that petitioner should be allowed to add here for the first
time another string to his bow. As we have indicated,
the issues under § 166 and § 22 (a) are not coterminous.
Though both deal with concepts of ownership, the range
of inquiry under the latter is broad, under the former
confined. To open here for the first time and in face of
the express disclaimer an inquiry into the broader field
is not only to deprive this Court of the assistance of a
decision below but to permit a shift to ground which the
taxpayer had every reason to think was abandoned in
the earlier stages of this litigation. See Burnet v. Commonwealth Improvement Co., 287 U. S. 415, 418. It is
not apparent why a less strict rule is necessary in order
adequately to protect the revenue.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS concurs

in the result.

'Art. 166-1 of Treasury Regulations 86, originally promulgated
under § 166, was not promulgated under § 22 (a) until 1936 (T. D.
4629), two years after the tax liability here in issue occurred. Hence
we do not have a case of reliance by the government on a regulation
which during the taxable year in question rested on two legs, one
of which was § 22 (a).

