HELVERING v. KEHOE.
270

Statement of the Case.

cases where the law though "fair on its face and impartial in appearance" may be open to serious abuses in
administration and courts may be imposed upon if the substantial rights of the persons charged are not adequately
safeguarded at every stage of the proceedings. But we
have no occasion to consider such abuses here, for none
have occurred. The applicable statutes are not patently
defective in any vital respect and we should not assume,
in advance of a decision by the state court, that they
should be construed so as to deprive appellant of the due
process to which he is entitled under the Federal Constitution. Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.
531, 546; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165,
186, 187; Stephenson v. Binford, supra. On the contrary,
we must assume that the Minnesota courts will protect
appellant in every constitutional right he possesses. His
procedural objections are premature.
The judgment. is
Affirmed.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. KEHOE.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 419. Argued February 7, 8, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.
A conclusion of fact by the Board of Tax Appeals supported by
substantial evidence binds the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 279.
105 F. 2d 552, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

308 U. S. 543, to review a judgment revers-

ing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a
ruling of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Mr. John Philip Wenchel, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Harry Marselli were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Robert T. McCracken, with whom Messrs. Leo W.
White, R. M. O'Hara, and W. H. Gillespie were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent Kehoe, in 1926, made an income tax return
for 1925 and paid the amount computed thereon. In
1927, after inquiry concerning his affairs, the Commissioner assessed and collected an additional sum. Respondent waived appeal to the Board of Tax Appeals and
became party to a closing agreement under ยง 1106 (b)
Revenue Act 1926,1 approved by the Secretary of the
Treasury January 27, 1928.
In 1932 the Commissioner undertook to set aside this
agreement and made a deficiency assessment of more than
Two Hundred Thousand Dollars, also a fifty per cent
penalty. Respondent appealed to the Board of Tax Appeals where he maintained there was no adequate proof
'February 26, 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 113"See. 1106 (b). If after a determination and assessment in any
case the taxpayer has paid in whole any tax or penalty, or accepted
any abatement, credit, or refund based on such determination and
assessment, and an agreement is made in writing between the taxpayer and the Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary,
that such determination and assessment shall be final and conclusive,
then (except upon a showing of fraud or malfeasance or misrepresentation of fact materially affecting the determination or assessment
thus made) (1) the case shall not be reopened or the determination
and assessment modified by any officer, employee, or agent of the
United States, and (2) no suit, action, or proceeding to "annul,
modify, or set aside such determination or assessment shall be entertained by any court of the United States."

HELVERING v. KEHOE.
277

Opinion of the Court.

to support the assessment. The Board held the Commissioner had adequately sustained the burden of showing fraud or malfeasance or misrepresentation of fact, and
did not err in setting the agreement aside.
The matter then went to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
Third Circuit, which ruled there was no adequate evidence to support the conclusion and judgment of the
Board. The facts are much discussed in a majority and
dissenting opinion, 105 F. 2d 552. Another narration of
them seems unnecessary.
Under the rule often announced, the function of the
Board of Tax Appeals is to weigh the evidence and declare the result as to matters properly before it. Upon
review the court may not substitute its judgment of the
facts for that of the Board. When there is substantial
evidence to support the conclusion of the latter this must
be accepted. Helvering v. Rankin, 295 U. S. 123, 131;
General Utilities Co. v. Helvering, 296 U. S. 200, 206;
Elmhurst Cemetery Co. v. Commissioner, 300 U. S.
37, 40.
Here, upon evidence which we think is substantial (the
dissenting member of the court below held the same
view), the Board found fraud in fact which affected the
closing agreement, and that the Commissioner properly
set the contract aside. The court below should have accepted this finding of fact. As it failed so to do the
challenged judgment must be reversed. The ruling of
the Board is affirmed.
Reversed.

