310

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

It cannot be said that the petitioner, whether treated
as a corporation or not, made no return of the tax imposed by the statute. Its return may have been incomplete in that it failed to compute a tax, but this defect
falls short of rendering it no return whatever.'
The judgment is
Reversed.
MAYO, COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE OF
FLORIDA, ET .AL. v. LAKELAND HIGHLANDS
CANNING CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 270.

Argued January 12, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.

Canners of citrus fruits operating in Florida, some of them domiciled
in other States, sued to enjoin an official from enforcing an order
made under color of a Florida statute and purporting to fix the
price to be paid the grower for grapefruit, the bill alleging unconstitutionality of the statute, invalidity of the order for failure to
comply with the statutory requirements, and threat of irreparable
injury. Held:
1. That, upon application under Jud. Code, § 266, heard upon
the bill, affidavits and other evidence, the question before the
District Court was not whether the Act was constitutional or unconstitutional; nor whether there had been compliance with its
requirements, if valid; but was whether the showing made raised
serious questions, under the federal Constitution and the state law,
and disclosed that enforcement of the Act, pending final hearing,
would inflict irreparable damages upon the complainants. P. 316.
The court should have confined itself to those issues. Expressions
of opinion on the ultimate merits were premature.
o Zellerbach Paper Co. v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 172, 180; Commissioner v. Stetson & Ellison Co., 43 F. 2d 553; United States v. Tillinghast, 69 F. 2d 718; Mabel Elevator Co., 2 B. T. A. 517; Abraham
Werbelovsky, 8 B. T. A. 442, 446; Estate of F. M. Stearns, 16
B. T. A. 889; J. R. Brewer, 17 B. T. A. 704,

MAYO v. CANNING CO.
310

Opinion of the Court.

2. It is of the highest importance to a proper review in the
granting or refusing of a preliminary injunction that there be
explicit findings of fact, in compliance with § 52 (a) of the Rules
of Civil Procedure. P. 316.
3. The question whether the bill failed to state facts sufficient
to raise a substantial question as to the constitutional validity of
the statute could have been raised for prompt decision by motion
to dismiss. P. 317.
4. The bill raises questions of the validity of the statute, and
as to whether it has ever been put in operation in accordance with
its terms, that preclude a judgment of dismissal. P. 318.
5. The mere fact that the Act fixes prices is, in itself, insufficient
to invalidate it; and allegation of that fact does not raise substantial federal questions. P. 318.
6. Nonresident plaintiffs may be entitled to maintain the suit
before one District Judge, upon the ground that the conditions of
the statute were not officially complied with, even though it be
found that there is no substance in the constitutional questions
presented. P. 318.
28 F. Supp. 44, reversed.
APPEAL

from an interlocutory decree of injunction.

Messrs. William C. Pierce and 0. K. Reaves, with
whom Messrs. George Couper Gibbs, Attorney General
of Florida, and H. E. Carter, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. G. L. Reeves, with whom Mr. John B. Sutton was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellees, corporations of Florida and other States,
and individuals, engaged in the canning of citrus fruits
in that State, filed their bill in the District Court for
Southern Florida against Nathan Mayo, as Commissioner
of Agriculture of Florida, praying injunctions, temporary
and final, to restrain him from cancelling their licenses

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

as citrus fruit dealers, from enforcing against them a regulation made pursuant to a state statute, and from interfering with the conduct of their business by reason of
their failure to comply with the statute.
On presentation of the bill and motion for temporary
relief, the court issued a restraining order and convened
a court of three judges. The Florida Citrus Commission
was permitted to intervene as a defendant. After hearing on affidavits, filed by appellees and appellant Mayo,
and, on evidence offered by the appellees, the court
granted a temporary injunction pending final hearing.1
The Commissioner and the intervenor have appealed.
The bill alleges the importance of the grapefruit canning industry in the State, and asserts that the appellees,
in the conduct of their business, packed over sixty per
cent. of the total grapefruit and grapefruit juice canned
in the State in seasons prior to that of 1938-1939. It
recites the adoption by the legislature of the Growers'
Cost Guarantee Act (Chap. 16862 of the Acts of 1935)
which, after declaring that the production and distribution of citrus fruit is a paramount industry of the State,
upon which the prosperity of the State largely depends,
and assigning reasons for the protection of the industry
and the maintenance of prices commensurate with the
cost of production of citrus fruit, authorizes the Commissioner of Agriculture, in his discretion, with the consent
and advice of the Governor, to declare the existence of an
emergency in the industry; and provides that, if he does
so, then,-upon petition of owners or controllers of fifty
per cent. or more of the producing acreage of citrus fruit,
and, upon procurement by the Florida Citrus Commission
from producers, shippers, or handlers, not subject to the
provisions of the act, of binding agreements to conform
thereto and abide by its terms,-the Commission shall
'28 F. Supp. 44.

MAYO v. CANNING CO.
310

Opinion of the Court.

determine and record annually the average reasonable
cost, per standard packed box, of producing citrus fruit.
The statute provides that, thereupon, every contract with
a grower for the purchase of fruit is to be held to require
the purchaser to pay the grower a price per box equal to
such ascertained and recorded cost; and continues: "Any
contract, plan, scheme or device whereby it shall be attempted to preclude the grower from recovering such
cost of production shall to that extent be held to be unlawful and against the public policy of this State, but
in all other respects and particulars contracts of sale . . .
shall be valid and binding and the terms thereof shall
measure the rights of the respective parties." By its
terms the act is to apply to any one or more of the varieties of citrus fruit.
The complaint further refers to the Bond and License
Act (Chap. 16860, Laws of Florida, 1935, as amended by
Chap. 17777, Acts of 1937), which requires every dealer
(which term includes processors of citrus fruit) to take a
license and provides that if the Commissioner determines
that any dealer has violated the provisions of any applicable act he may suspend or revoke the license of the
offender. Operation as a dealer without license is made
a misdemeanor.
The bill alleges that the packing season for canning
citrus products in Florida begins about November 1st
of each year and continues until June or July of the following year; that preparations for canning include the ordering of cans, labels, contracting for purchase of fruit,
securing labor, planning of factory operations, and obtaining orders for the product.
It is alleged that, under the Growers' Cost Guarantee
Act, the appellant Mayo, as Commissioner of Agriculture,
with the consent and advice of the Governor, declared an
emergency in the citrus industry on January 13, 1939,
and that the Citrus Commission passed a resolution Jan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

uary 16, 1939, reciting that more than fifty per cent.
of the owners or controllers of producing acreage of grapefruit in the State have requested the Commission to determine the cost of production of grapefruit, fixing the
cost per standard packed box at thirty-two cents for the
season 1938-1939, and decreeing that every contract with
a grower shall be held to require that the purchaser
shall, in any event, pay the grower the amount so fixed
as the cost of production.
The bill states that the expected pack of grapefruit for
the season 1938-39 was large, but that, due to the regulation, the output of the canned product has been less, by
two million cases, than that of the previous season; that,
since January 19, 1939, each of appellees has been offered
quantities of grapefruit by Florida growers, at prices
ranging from twelve cents per box for fruit to be processed into juice, to twenty-five cents per box for fruit to
be canned into sections or hearts, and that, but for the
regulation, in question, each could, and would, have
purchased such fruit, canned the same, and sold the
canned product at a large profit; that, as a result of the
regulation, much of the fruit remains unsold and is
spoiling.
The bill further asserts that many growers own their
own canning plants and may, therefore, process their
fruit without being subject to the burden of the Cost
Guarantee Law; and that many growers, with like immunity, process their fruit through co6perative organizations to which the Commissioner does not apply the
cost price provisions of the law and regulations.
According to the bill a large proportion of the Florida
canned fruit is sold in interstate and foreign commerce
and much of it competes with that produced in other
States which brings lower prices, and, consequently, the
appellees cannot pay thirty-two cents per box and sell
in competition with fruit elsewhere processed.

MAYO v. CANNING CO.
310

Opinion of the Court.

It is further averred that one of the appellees had made
binding contracts of purchase prior to issue of the regulation, the obligation of which has been impaired
thereby.
After alleging that each appellee has a large investment; that the payment of thirty-two cents per box
would render it impossible for them to sell their processed grapefruit except at a loss; that the enforcement
of the regulation will cause them large losses and irreparable damage; that if they do not comply with the
regulation the Commissioner will revoke their licenses,
and that, if he should do so, they will be compelled to
suspend business or subject themselves to risk of fine
and imprisonment under the Bond and License Act, the
bill charges that the Growers' Cost Guarantee Law, as
administered and as applied to them, is unconstitutional
and void as illegally attempting to regulate interstate
commerce, as violating the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, because discriminating between
co6peratives and the complainants, as taking their property without due process of law, and as impairing the
obligation of contracts. The bill also challenges the
regulation on the ground that the Commission failed to
ascertain, in accordance with the law, that fifty per cent.
of the owners or controllers of acreage had requested
regulation and also failed to observe the condition precedent to making any order, namely, that all persons not
subject to the provisions of the act should execute binding agreements to be governed thereby.
At the time of hearing and decree for preliminary
injunction no answer or motion to dismiss had been filed.
The court in its opinion stated that the defendants had
appeared and, though they had not filed answers, argued
the case "and requested the Court to pass on all questions
presented, and especially on the constitutionality of the
Act involved."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

The court in its opinion, after a running commentary,
concluded: "We find the Act unconstitutional." The
court then went on to say that there was no proof before
it that the Commission had procured agreements, as required by the act, from shippers or handlers not subject
to the provisions of the act, and that, while this fact
might not render the act violative of the Constitution, it
required an injunction to restrain the Commission from
enforcing the prices fixed. An injunction was issued to
remain in force until final hearing.
We think the court committed serious error in 'thus
dealing with the case upon motion for temporary injunction. The question before it was not whether the act
was constitutional or unconstitutional; was not whether
the Commission had complied with the requirements of
the act, if valid, but was whether the showing made raised
serious questions, under the federal Constitution and the
state law, and disclosed that enforcement of the act,
pending final hearing, would inflict irreparable damages
upon the complainants.
The observations made in the course of the opinion are
not, in any proper sense, findings of fact upon these vital
issues. Statements of fact are mingled with arguments
and inferences for which we find no sufficient basis either
in the affidavits or the oral testimony.
It is of the highest importance to a proper review of
the action of a court in granting or refusing a preliminary
injunction that there should be fair compliance with Rule
52 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure.!
The appellants complain that the court's opinion decides a question which was not open on the hearing and
2Compare

Home Telephone & Teleg. Co. v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S.

206; Railroad,Commission v. Maxcy, 281 U. S. 82; Public Service
Comm'n v. Wisconsin Telephone Co., 289 U. S. 67; Interstate Circuit
v. United States, 304 U. S. 55; Borden's Farm Products Co. v.
Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194; Polk Company v. Glover, 305 U. S. 5.

MAYO v. CANNING CO.
310

Opinion of the Court.

prejudices their position on final hearing; that the decision goes beyond the question of a prima facie showing
made for the purpose of obtaining a temporary injunction
and proceeds upon assumptions of fact not sustained by
the evidence which appellants could have negatived by
proof adduced at final hearing. The appellees insist that
in holding the act unconstitutional the court did so only
for the purposes of temporary relief and that its conclusion in this respect can have no effect upon the ultimate
decision of the cause upon the merits. Nevertheless, the
parties have essayed, in view of the action of the court
below, to argue in this court the question of the constitutionality of the, statute, whereas, if the court below had
confined itself to the issue presented, namely, whether the
proofs warranted the entry of an injunction pending a
decision of the constitutional and other questions presented, the parties could either have obtained a trial on
the merits long before an appeal from the interlocutory
order could be heard in this case or, if an appeal from the
interlocutory order had been perfected here, would have
been restricted in argument to the question whether,
upon proper findings and conclusions, the court had
abused its discretion in granting or refusing an injunction.'
Moreover, if appellants conceived themselves aggrieved
by the action of the court upon motion for preliminary
injunction, they were entitled to have explicit findings of
fact upon which the conclusion of the court was based.
Such findings are obviously necessary to the intelligent
and orderly presentation and proper disposition of an
appeal.
The appellants insist that the bill fails to state facts
sufficient to raise a substantial question as to the constitutional validity of the statute. They could have
made this point in the District Court by a motion to
' United States v. Corrick, 298 U. S. 435, 437.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

dismiss and obtained a prompt decision on it. They
omitted so to do.
The record does not warrant a judgment of dismissal.
The complaint raises constitutional questions of due
process, equal protection, and violation of the obligation
of contract. It further raises questions as to whether
the act has ever been put into operation in accordance
with its terms.
The appellees' principal attack upon the statute, based
upon the Constitution, centers on its regulation of prices.
The mere fact that the act fixes prices is, in itself, insufficient to invalidate it; 4 and allegation of that fact
does not raise substantial federal questions. The presumption that an act fixing prices is constitutional would
require the denial of a temporary injunction, except in
extraordinary situations. Findings to support a conclusion against constitutionality would need to be
unequivocal.
Some of the complainants are corporations of States
other than Florida, and allegations of the bill, which
were not denied, sufficiently allege an amount in controversy in excess of $3,000 with respect to each complainant. In respect of the Commission's alleged failure
to comply with the statute, it may be that these complainants are entitled to maintain the suit although not
entitled to a hearing before a three judge court, even
though it be found that there is no substance in the constitutional questions presented.
The legislation requiring the convening of a court of
three judges in cases such as this was intended to insure
that the enforcement of a challenged statute should not
be suspended by injunction except upon a clear and
persuasive showing of unconstitutionality and irreparable
'Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; United States v. Rock Royal
Co-operative, 307 U. S. 533, 569. Compare Milk Control Board v.
Eisenberg Farm Products, 306 U. S. 346.

MAYO v. CANNING CO.
310

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

injury. Congress intended that, in this class of suits,
prompt hearing and decision shall be afforded the parties
so that the States shall be put to the least possible inconvenience in the administration of their laws.
Both the court below and the appellants are in part
responsible for the inexcusable delay in the disposition of
this case. We are advised that since the entry of the
injunction the defendants have answered the bill, and
there appears to be no reason why the case cannot
promptly be finally heard and decided upon the merits.
We reverse the decree and remand the cause to the court
below with instructions that, if the motion for interlocutory injunction is pressed, the parties, if they desire
it, may be afforded a further hearing, and any action
taken by the court shall be upon findings of fact and
conclusions founded upon the evidence, in accordance
with Rule 52 (a) of the Rules of .Civil Procedure.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.
A different disposition of the case seems to me to be
required.
Citrus fruit occupies a central and indeed pervasive
r6le in the economy of Florida. That state's well-being
is dependent on the cultivation of the citrus crop, its
packing, transportation, financing and exportation. The
appropriateness of regulations to be adopted for the citrus
fruit industry is thus peculiarly a matter for the legislature of Florida in whose keeping is the shaping of that
state's social and economic policy. In Nebbia v. New
York, 291 U. S. 502, this Court recognized price control
as one of the means open to a state for the protection of
its welfare. United States v. Rock Royal Co-op., 307

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

309 U. S.

U. S. 533. Cf. West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S.
379. The allowable exercise of legislative discretion to
attain price stability finds obvious occasion in the case of
a commodity as basic to a state's economy as citrus fruit
is to that of Florida. Certainly neither in the bill nor
in the Court's opinion is a reason vouchsafed to take the
present suit out of the scope of the Nebbia doctrine. The
wisdom of such a policy-its efficacy to achieve the desired ends-is of course not our concern.
The price level here challenged was not hastily or
crudely fixed. It was the result of an approved modern
method for dealing with the complexities of such a problem. The price was not fixed directly by statute. It
was ascertained under appropriate safeguards by a body
established to carry into apt result the legislative policy
for assuring "the grower returns at least equal to the
cost of production. . . ." Laws of Florida, 1935, c. 16862.
The Florida Citrus Commission on January 16, 1939,
fixed minimum prices for grapefruit, thereby establishing what is colloquially known as a "floor" for the market, so as to prevent the destructive play of blind economic forces.
This action was thereupon commenced in the District
Court for the Southern District of Florida, not by any of
the growers but by some canners, appellees here. On
March 23, 1939, they sought to enjoin the Commissioner
of Agriculture and other state officials from enforcing the
fixed minimum prices. They claimed that these deprived them of the opportunity to buy in a cheaper market-the cheapness of competition indifferent to any but
immediate consequences. They claimed irreparable damage and asked for both a temporary and a permanent
injunction. On April 28, 1939, in the circumstances set
forth in this Court's opinion, the District Court declared the statute unconstitutional and granted an interlocutory injunction. There were no findings-and there

MAYO v. CANNING CO.
310

Opinion of

FyANKFuRT R, J.

could have been none on this record-taking the statute
out of the doctrine announced in the Nebbia case. 1 Certainly a consumer has no constitutional right to buy as
cheaply as an unregulated industry would, under adverse
circumstances, be compelled to sell.
Pursuant to the delays inevitable in a litigation like
the present, an order allowing appeal was not granted
until July 3, and the case was filed here on August 7,
where in due course it was reached for argument on
January 12, 1940. As a result, the injunction effectively
suspended the operation of the Florida law during the
whole marketing season, although this Court now finds
that the injunction should never have been granted.
I do not believe we should now let this bill hang over
next year's crop. We ought not to encourage the use of
the judicial process for such unjustifiable attempts to
set aside a state law by allowing them to be successful
in result even though legally erroneous. We ought to
apply what was characterized in Massachusetts State
Grange v. Benton, 272 U. S. 525, 527, as "the important
rule, which we desire to emphasize, that no injunction
ought to issue against officers of a State clothed with
authority to enforce the law in question, unless in a
case reasonably free from doubt and when necessary to
prevent great and irreparable injury." Even if the present
1 Appellees

also attacked the Florida statute because of its pro-

visions exempting co-operative and grower-owned canneries. This
attack, however, must fail under our decision in United States v.
Rock Royal Co-op., 307 U. S. 533. Appellees' contention that the
statute is an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce is
likewise without substance. Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52; Milk
Board v. Eisenberg Co., 306 U. S. 346. Nor is there substantial basis
for appellees' contention that the order unconstitutionally impairs
the obligation of any contracts they may have previously made for
the purchase of grapefruit at a price lower than that fixed under
the statute. See, e. g., Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public Service
Corp., 248 U. S. 372. Cf. Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457, 550-51.
215234'--40-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

309

U. S.

bill is taken at face value, it does not make out "a case
reasonably free from doubt." The withdrawal of the
injunction from industrial controversies made by the
Norris-LaGuardia Act was in no small part due to the
belief by Congress that experience had shown that the
use of a legal remedy devised for a simple situation might
in a totally different environment become a perversion
of that remedy. Congress has also given indication in
§ 266 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 380) of its concern over the misuse of the injunction, fashioned for
settling an ordinary clash of private interests, to restrain
the machinery of a state in carrying out some vital state
policy.
The supervisory power of this Court over the district
courts becomes especially appropriate in equity suits.
We ought to feel free to apply the traditional powers of
the chancellor on appeal to act as though the suit were
before him de novo. Compare United States v. Rio
Grande Irrigation Co., 184 U. S. 416, 423. The present
case demands that we enforce the "important rule" of
Massachusetts State Grange v. Benton, supra.
Inasmuch as the Florida statute is obviously constitutional, the bill does not raise a substantial federal question and the District Court was without jurisdiction to
entertain it on behalf of the appellees who are citizens of
Florida. As to them, the case should be remanded to the
District Court with directions to dismiss the bill.
Some of the appellees, however, are citizens of other
states, and among the allegations of the bill, in addition
to the amount of damage requisite to give diversity
jurisdiction, are those of failure by the state officials to
comply with some of the conditions which appellees assert to be indispensable for the issuance of a valid pricefixing order under the statute. Whatever may be the
merits of these contentions, in any event they do not
touch the constitutionality of the statute or the order,

COBBLEDICK v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

310

and so § 266 of the Judicial Code cannot be invoked for
their adjudication. As to these appellees, the judgment
below should be vacated and the case remanded to the
District Court for any proceedings that may be appropriate before a single judge. But compare Gilchrist v.
InterboroughCo., 279 U. S. 159.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

join in

these views.

COBBLEDICK

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 571.

FOR THE

Argued January 30, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.

An order of the District Court denying a motion to quash a subpoena duces tecum requiring one to appear with papers and testify
before a grand jury is not a "final decision" within the meaning
of Jud. Code § 128 (a). Pp. 324, 330.
107 F. 2d 975, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

308 U. S. 547, to review judgments dis-

missing, for want of jurisdiction, appeals from orders
denying motions to quash subpoenas duces tecum.
Mr. Donald R. Richberg, with whom Messrs. Felix T.
Smith and Chalmers G. Graham were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Wendell Berge, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Arnold and Mr.
James C. Wilson were on the brief, for the United
States.
*Together with No. 572, Brawner et al. v. United States, and No.
573, Palmuth et al. v. United States, also on writs of certiorari to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

