530

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellants.

309 U. S.

WHITNEY ET AL., EXECUTORS, ET AL. V. STATE
TAX COMMISSION OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE SURROGATE'S COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 541.

Argued February 28, 29, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

A statute of New York, amending the 1930 estate tax law, operates to require inclusion in the gross estate of the decedent, for
the purpose of computing the estate tax, of property in respect
of which the decedent exercised after 1930 by will a non-general
power of appointment created prior to that year. The statute
reaches such transfers under powers of appointment as under the
previous statute escaped taxation. Held:
1. The inclusion in the gross estate of a decedent of property
never owned by her but appointed by her will under a limited
power which could not be exercised in favor of the decedent,
her creditors, or her estate, did not deny due process to those
who inherited the decedent's property, even though, because the
tax rate was progressive, the net amount they inherited from her
was less than it would have been if the appointed property had
not been included in the gross estate. P. 540.
2. Considering the history and purpose of the statute, the facts
that it applies only to special powers of appointment created prior
to 1930 and exercised thereafter, and that other special powers
are taxed in the estate of the donor rather than that of the donee,
does not render it violative of the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Binney v. Long, 299 U. S. 280, distinguished. P. 541.
281 N. Y. 297; 22 N. E. 2d 379, affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a. judgment sustaining

the constitutionality of a New York estate tax.
Mr. Arthur A. Ballantine, with whom Messrs. Roy C.

Gasser, Thomas B. Gilchrist, Horace R. Lamb, and Leo
Gottlieb were on the brief, for appellants.
An estate tax which requires inclusion in the decedent's taxable estate of property in respect of which she

WHITNEY v. TAX COMMISSION.
530

Argument for Appellants.

exercised only a limited power of appointment, which she
was precluded from exercising for the benefit of herself,
her creditors or her estate, and which property never at
any time belonged to her, constitutes an arbitrary and
capricious allocation of the tax burden.
An estate tax may properly include in its measure property not technically owned by the decedent at death if
the decedent stood in a relationship to the property which
might fairly be regarded as the equivalent of ownership.
Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; Leser v. Burnet, 46
F. 2d 756. But the assumption of such a relationship in
this case is erroneous and arbitrary.
The inclusion of property in respect of which the decedent exercised a general power of appointment is valid
because a general power gives the grantee of the power
the substantial equivalent of ownership, since he is free
to exercise it in favor of his creditors and thus use the
property for his own benefit. Fidelity-Philadelphia
Trust Co. v. McCaughn, 34 F. 2d 600, 604; cert. den., 280
U. S. 602; Morgan v. Commissioner, 309 U. S. 78; Chase
National Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327; Helvering
v. Parker, 84 F. 2d 838; Pennsylvania Co. v. Commissioner, 79 F. 2d 295; cert. den., 296 U. S. 651; Levy's
Estate v. Commissioner, 65 F. 2d 412; McKelvy v. Commissioner, 82 F. 2d 395; Ballard v. Helburn, 9 F. Supp.
812; aff'd 85 F. 2d 613; T. D. 4729, March 18, 1937;
Reg. 80, Art. 25.
The necessity of preventing evasion or avoidance of
the tax permits the inclusion of property once owned by
the decedent in cases where the transaction as a whole
may fairly be regarded as a substitute for a testamentary
disposition. United States v. Wells, 283 U. S. 102, 116117; Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339;
Helvering v. City Bank Co., 296 U. S. 85; Porterv. Commissioner, 288 U. S. 436; Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellants.

309 U. S.

497; United States v. Jacobs, 306 U. S. 363; Helvering v.
Helmholz, 296 U. S. 93; Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S.
106. Not so, however, where the property has never
belonged to the decedent.
Where the decedent has never had any beneficial interest in the property in question, either at death or at
any previous time, the inclusion of the property in his
taxable estate denies due process. The tax in such a case
can be based only upon an arbitrary assumption which is
unfounded in fact. Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312;
Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U. S. 206; Schlesinger v.
Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230; Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S.
531; Frew v. Bowers, 12 F. 2d 625.
The fact that a legacy tax might have been imposed
upon the receipt of this property by the appointees does
not justfy the present tax. See Nichols v. Coolidge, 274
U. S. 531, 541; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260,
270-1; Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582, 608, 609, 631-2;
cf., Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 49, 77; Y. M. C. A.
v. Davis, 264 U. S. 47, 50; Edwards v. Slocum, 264 U. S.
61, 62-3.
In exercising the special power in trust granted to her
in the will of her husband, the decedent was merely acting
as her husband's fiduciary agent in connection with the
disposition of his property. The circumstance that the
decedent performed her fiduciary function with reference to her husband's property by means of the same
instrument by which she disposed of her own property
does not justify including her husband's property in the
measure of a tax on the transmission of her estate.
The equal protection clause imposes a more exacting
requirement of fairness than the due process clause.
Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312; La Belle Iron Works v.
United States, 256 U. S. 377, 392.
The statute here discriminates between the estates of
decedents who have exercised non-beneficial powers of
appointment and those who have not.

WHITNEY v. TAX COMMISSION.
530

Argument for Appellants.

An estate precisely like that of the decedent, so far as
any property in which the decedent had ever had any
beneficial interest is concerned, would pay only $360,000
in estate tax, whereas decedent's estate must pay $1,212,000.
Those who succeed to the decedent's own property
must pay about $165,000 more than if the appointed
property had not been included. Such is the effect of the
application of the progressive rate scale.
There is no reasonable basis for the difference in treatment. Air-Way Electric Appliance Corp. v. Day, 266
U. S. 71; Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553; Iowa-Des
Moines National Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S. 239.
The classification was not occasioned by local conditions known to the legislature; there is no room for the
operation of any presumption based upon the legislature's
greater knowledge of local conditions.
The Court will not indulge pure conjecture to justify
the discrimination. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150, 154; Binney v. Long, 299 U. S. 280, 294.
The only suggestion as to a possible reason of policy
justifying the discrimination, is that the 1932 amendment was required to prevent the escape of the property
here involved from all death taxation through the inadvertent repeal, by the estate tax law, of the old legacy
tax which would have been payable upon the exercise,
after the effective date of the estate tax law, of the powers
theretofore created. This would have justified nothing
more than the restoration of the tax which had been
inadvertently repealed; it could not justify the imposition
of a new and different tax based upon an erroneous and
arbitrary factual assumption and producing the oppressive and discriminatory effect set forth.
It will not do to urge that it was easier to impose the
new estate tax than to restore the old legacy tax. Even
if there were any factual basis for such a claim, it is clear

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

that such an attempted justification would not meet with
the approval of this Court. Stewart Dry Goods Co. v.
Lewis, 294 U. S. 550, 559-60.
The applicability of the statute only to non-general
powers of appointment created before September 1, 1930,
constitutes an additional ground of invalidity under the
equal protection clause. It is clear that the applicability
of subdivision 7-a depends on whether the power of
appointment involved was created before September 1,
1930, in which case subdivision 7-a may apply, or after
September 1, 1930, in which case subdivision 7-a can
never apply.
Such a difference in treatment, based solely on the date
when the power was created, constitutes an arbitrary and
capricious classification violative of the equal protection
clause. Binney v. Long, 299 U. S. 290.
That the present case involves an estate tax rather
than a legacy tax, merely serves to aggravate the discrimination. Under the Massachusetts statute, the aggregation of the appointive property with other property for
the purpose of the graduated rate provisions was only an
aggregation with other property going to the same
beneficiary. In the present case, the effect of applying
subdivision 7-a has been to aggregate the appointive
property with all of the other property comprising the decedent's taxable estate, not only the property going to the
same beneficiaries, but also all of the property going to
entirely different beneficiaries.
Mr. Mortimer M. Kassell, with whom Mr. Harry T.
O'Brien, Jr. was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Cornelius Vanderbilt died in 1899. By his will he
established a trust to issue a designated annual income
to his wife. Upon her death, Mrs. Vanderbilt was also

WHITNEY v. TAX COMMISSION.
530

Opinion of the Court.

given the power to dispose of this fund among four of
their children, in such proportions as she might choose.
In default of her exercise of this discretionary power,
the fund was to go to the children equally. Mrs. Vanderbilt died in 1934, and by her will availed herself of
the power. The taxing authorities of New York included
the value of this trust fund in her gross estate, and on
this basis computed Mrs. Vanderbilt's estate tax. The
Court of Appeals of New York, finding that the applicable New York legislation had been properly construed by the Tax Commission, sustained its validity.
281 N. Y. 297; 22 N. E. 2d 379. The result of this
decision is to reduce the amount available for distribution
among the beneficiaries of Mrs. Vanderbilt's independent
property below what it would have been had the tax
been assessed on the basis of that property without the
inclusion of the trust fund which came from her husband.
These beneficiaries, and the executors of the will, claim
that the exaction thus sanctioned by New York violates
the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States
Constitution.
The contested statute, New York Laws of 1932, ch.
320, derives meaning as an incident in the history of
New York's present system of death taxes. That system
had its beginning in 1885. The original act taxed individual economic benefits derived upon death rather than
the total amount of the estate. Laws of 1885, ch. 483.
Under this legislation, the transmission of property subject to powers of appointment, either general or special,
was attributed to the estate of the donor. Matter of
Stewart, 131 N. Y. 274; 30 N. E. 184; and the subsequent
exercise of the power was not taxed. Matter of Harbeck,
161 N. Y. 211; 55 N. E. 850. The administrative awkwardness incident to this treatment of appointive property led to an amendment whereby all property passing
under powers of appointment was attributed to the do-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

nee, not to the donor. Laws of 1897, ch. 284. This was
the New York law when Cornelius Vanderbilt died. In
1930, experience with the legacy tax in New York and
elsewhere led to a shift in the basis for imposing death
duties. Acting upon the results of an inquiry into the
defects and inadequacies of a taxing system born of other
times and calculated to meet different needs, New York
in 1930 supplanted her system which taxed the individual legatee's privilege of succession by one, which measured the levy by the size of the total estate. Laws of
1930, ch. 710. Under this legislation, property subject
to a power of appointment-whether general or specialis included in the donor's gross estate. If the power is
general, its later exercise sweeps the appointive property
into the donee's gross estate also.
As is apt to happen in extensive legislative readjustments dealing with complex problems, the effect of the
change in 1930 upon some of the more specialized situations coming within the general policy was overlooked.
Powers created between 1885 and 1897 had been taxable
at the donor's death. Special powers created after 1897
and exercised before 1930 had been taxed at the donee's
death. Powers created and exercised after 1930 were
included in the donor's estate. But powers created after
1897 and not exercised before 1930 were outside the legislative framework. Thus an unintended immunity from
the incidence of taxation had been given to special
powers of appointment created after 1897 but not exercised before the passage of the 1930 legislation. When
experience disclosed this omission, the Legislature removed it in 1932. The amendment of that year, which
is copied in the margin,* included in the donee's gross
*The amendment provided that there should be included in the decedent's gross estate interests of which the following was part of the
enumeration of, defined categories:
"7-a. To the extent of any property passing under a power of appointment exercised by the decedent (a) by will, or (b) by deed exe-

WHITNEY v. TAX COMMISSION.
530

537

Opinion of the Court.

estate appointive property which was not taxable at
the donor's death but would have been taxable under
the superseded statutory provision of 1897. It is under
this amendment that New York has imposed the tax
here assailed. This brings us to a consideration of
appellants' claims.
As against this attempt by the State to devise a harmonious taxing system, appellants urge that New York
exacts an unjustifiably heavier estate tax from the beneficiaries of Mrs. Vanderbilt's unrestricted property
because in the accounting of her estate property was included of which she was not the '"beneficial owner."
Attacking the 1932 Act from another point of view, they
claim that New York had no authority to draw a taxing
cuted in contemplation of, or intended to take effect in possession or
enjoyment at or after, his death, except in case of a bona fide
sale for an adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth
. . . provided that the transfer of such property is not or was not
subject to a death tax in the estate of the grantor of such power but
would have been so taxable except for a statute providing that the
tax on the transfer of such property should be imposed in the estate
of the grantee of such power in the event of the exercise thereof."
The legislative history of this measure was thus summarized in the
opinion of Surrogate Foley: "An explanatory memorandum of the
State Tax Commission prepared at the time of the drafting and introduction of the legislative bill has been submitted to the surrogate by
consent of the parties. It is illuminative of the reasons which led to
the enactment of new subdivision 7-a. The State Tax Commission
pointed out that the existing law in 1932, prior to the enactment of
the subdivision, permitted the fund to escape taxation in both the
estate of the grantor and the estate of the grantee of the power. It
was stated in reference to the measure: 'This bill provides that property transferred by the exercise of a special or limited power of appointment shall be included in the decedent's gross estate for the
purpose of the present estate tax in the event it is not taxable or has
not been taxed in the estate of the grantor of the power and thus
insures that one death tax will be imposed upon such property.'"
Matter of Vanderbilt, 163 Misc. (N. Y.) 667, 676; 297 N. Y. S. 554,
565.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

line between special powers created prior to 1930 and
those established thereafter.
Large concepts like "property" and "ownership" call for
close analysis, especially when tax legislation is under
scrutiny. Mrs. Vanderbilt, to be sure, had, in the conventional use of that term, no "beneficial interest" in the
property which she transferred through the exercise of her
power of appointment. She could not, that is to say, use
the corpus of the trust herself or appoint it to her estate;
nor could she have applied it to her creditors. These
qualifications upon Mrs. Vanderbilt's power over the appointive property had a significance during her lifetime
which death transmuted. For when the end comes, the
power that property gives, no matter how absolutely it
may have been held, also comes to an end-except in so
far as the power to determine its succession and enjoyment may be projected beyond the grave. But the exercise of this power is. precisely the privilege which the
state confers and upon which it seizes for the imposition
of a tax. It is not the decedent's enjoyment of the property-the "beneficial interest"-which is the occasion for
the tax, nor even the acquisition of such enjoyment by
the individual beneficiaries. Presumably the policy behind estate tax legislation like that of New York is the
diversion to the purposes of the community of a portion
of the total current of wealth released by death.
In making this diversion, the state is not confined to
that kind of wealth which was, in colloquial language,
"owned" by a decedent before death, nor even to that
over which he had an unrestricted power of testamentary
disposition. It is enough that one person acquires economic interests in property through the death of another
person, even though such acquisition is in part the automatic consequence of death or related to the decedent
merely because of his power to designate to whom and in

WHITNEY v. TAX COMMISSION.
530

Opinion of the Court.

what proportions among a restricted class the benefits
shall fall.
The books are replete with recognition of these general principles. Thus the full value of property may be
taxed as part of a decedent's gross estate even though
held by him merely as a tenant by the entirety, Tyler v.
United States, 281 U. S. 497; likewise the full value of
property in which the decedent was only a joint tenant
may be taxed to his estate, United States v. Jacobs, 306
U. S. 363. In neither of these instances was there an
exact equation between the "beneficial interest" owned
by the decedent just before his death and that by which
the tax was measured. Again, this Court found no
difficulty in sustaining a tax on the transfer of property
conveyed in trust by a decedent during his life, although
he had divested himself of all beneficial interest in the
corpus and had only reserved the power to change beneficiaries, excluding, however, himself and his estate from
the range of choice. Porterv. Commissioner,288 U. S. 436.
The attempt to differentiate the tie that binds these
cases by treating the inter vivos transfers in these decisions as mere substitutions for testamentary dispositions, disregards the emphasis in these cases on the
practical effect of death in bringing about a shift in
economic interest, and the power of the legislature to
fasten on that shift as the occasion for a tax. This
broader base is emphasized, for instance, by the fact that
in the Porter case the decedent had divested himself of
all "beneficial interest" in the trust property prior to the
passage of the taxing act by which the trust was included
in the value of his gross estate.
A person may by his death bring into being greater
interests in property than he himself has ever enjoyed,
and the state may turn advantages thus realized into a
source of revenue, as illustrated by earlier cases dealing

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

with special powers of appointment that also came here
from New York. Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278; Chanler
v. Kelsey, 205 U. S. 466. In these cases, to be sure, a
legacy tax was assailed-a tax, that is, measured by the
specific interests which the beneficiaries of the power received. Here, the grievance is asserted more particularly
by those succeeding to Mrs. Vanderbilt's free property.
But if death may be made the occasion for taxing property in which the decedent had no "beneficial interest,"
then the measurement of that tax by the decedent's total
wealth-disposing power is merely an exercise of legislative
discretion in determining what the state shall take in
return for allowing the transfer. The adoption of this
measure may, of course, in the case of a graduated tax,
burden individual beneficiaries beyond what they would
bear if the same tax rate were applied to the value of the
unrestricted property of the decedent and the property
over which he had but a restricted control were excluded.
There is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent legislatures from devising death duties having this
effect, nor to authorize courts to deny them the right
to do so.
The circumstances of the present case illustrate the
practical considerations which may induce a legislature to
treat restricted and unrestricted property as a taxing
unit. The potential interests of the beneficiaries of Mrs.
Vanderbilt's free property are intertwined with their interests in the appointive property. The dispositions
which she was free to make under her power of appointment aerved to enhance her freedom with respect to her
own property. How Mrs. Vanderbilt would have distributed her individual property if she had possessed no control over that left by her husband is speculative. But
it is certainly within the area of legislative judgment to
assume that special powers of appointment are ordinarily
designed for ends similar to those in the present case-

WHITNEY v. TAX COMMISSION.
530

Opinion of the Court.

namely, to enlarge the donee's range of bounty, however
narrowly restricted the enlargement may be, to a circle
of beneficiaries closely related to, if not identical with,
those whom the donee would be naturally disposed to
favor. To the extent that this is true, there is compensation for those who may succeed to the donee's individual property, and who must pay a larger tax, because the
appointive property is included in the gross estate. The
legislature can hardly particularize the instances and
draw up a tariff of compensations, and it is certainly not
the province of courts to make the attempt. It suffices
that the legislature has seen fit to frame a general enactment drawn on lines not offensive to experience and
aimed at curing a revealed inequality in the state's taxing
system.
Appellants vainly seek to draw strength from
Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230; Hoeper v. Tax
Commission, 284 U. S. 206; and Heiner v. Donnan, 285
U. S. 312. The differences of opinion to which these cases
gave rise are not here relevant.
But there remains the claim of appellants that in drawing the line between special powers created before 1930
and those having a later origin, New York ran afoul of
the Equal Protection Clause. The brief summary we
have given of the history of this legislation seems a sufficient answer to the charge of proscribed discrimination.
To have continued the complete immunity from taxation
which the 1930 legislation had unintentionally conferred
upon special powers of appointment created before its
passage was deemed by New York to have resulted in
substantial inequality. The correction of such inequality
is not a denial of the equality commanded by the Fourteenth Amendment. In the age-old but increasingly
difficult task of tapping new sources of revenue, nothing
may more legitimately attract the attention of financial
statesmen than opportunities to reach property which has

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

enjoyed immunity from tax burdens borne by others similarly situated. Wat.3on v. State Comptroller, 254 U. S.
122; Welch v. Henry, 305 U. S. 134.
Acceptance of Binney v. Long, 299 U.. S. 280, would not
constrain us to hold differently. In the circumstances
confronting the New York Legislature, as the Court of
Appeals pointed out, the discrimination affecting special
powers was not based upon what was deemed in the Binney case to be a date "arbitrarily selected but is a logical
solution by the Legislature of a problem which it was
required to meet." 281 N. Y. at 317. All special powers,
whether created before or after 1930, are taxed in New
York. In one case, they are taxed to the donor's estate;
in the other-since the same treatment would be manifestly impracticable-to the donee's. Differences in circumstances beget appropriate differences in law. The
Equal Protection Clause was not designed to compel uniformity in the face of difference. Madden v. Kentucky,
ante, p. 83.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of opinion that the instant case
is indistinguishable in principle from Binney v. Long, 299
U. S. 280, and that, accordingly, the judgment should be
reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

decision of this case.

did not participate in the

