CHAMBERS v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

CHAMBERS

ET AL.

V. FLORIDA.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 195.

Argued January 4, 1940.-Decided February 12, 1940.

1. Convictions of murder obtained in the state courts by use of
coerced confessions are void under the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 228.
2. This Court is not concluded by the finding of a jury that a confession by one convicted in a state court of murder was voluntary,
but determines that question for itself from the evidence. P. 228.
3. Confessions of murder procured by repeated inquisitions of prisoners without friends or counsellors present, and under circumstances calculated to inspire terror, held compulsory. Pp. 238-241.
136 Fla. 568; 187 So. 156, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 541, to review convictions of
murder upon the question whether confessions used in
the trial were in violation of due process of law.
Messrs. Leon A. Ransom and S. D. McGill, with whom
Mr. Thurgood Marshall was on the brief, for petitioners.

Mr. Tyrus A. Norwood, Assistant Attorney General of
Florida, with whom Mr. George Couper Gibbs, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The grave question presented by the petition for certiorari, granted in forma pauperis,' is whether proceedings in which confessions were utilized, and which culminated in sentences of death upon four young negro
men in the State of Florida, failed to afford the safeguard
of that due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment.'
1308 U. S.541.
'Petitioners Williamson, Woodward and Davis pleaded guilty of
murder and petitioner Chambers was found guilty by a jury; all

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

First. The State of Florida challenges our jurisdiction
to look behind the judgments below claiming that the
issues of fact upon which petitioners base their claim that
due process was denied them have been finally determined
because passed upon by a jury. However, use by a State
of an improperly obtained confession may constitute a
denial of due process of law as guaranteed in the Fourteenth Amendment.' Since petitioners have seasonably
asserted the right under the federal Constitution to have
their guilt or innocence of a capital crime determined
without reliance upon confessions obtained by means
were sentenced to death, and the Supreme Court of Florida affirmed.
111 Fla. 707, 151 So. 499; 152 So. 437. Upon the allegation that,
unknown to the trial judge, the confessions on which the judgments
and sentences of death were based were not voluntary and had been
obtained by coercion and duress, the State Supreme Court granted
leave to present a petition for writ of error coram nobis to the
Broward County Circuit Court, 111 Fla. 707; 152 So. 437. The
Circuit Court denied the petition without trial of the issues raised
by it and the State Supreme Court reversed and ordered the issues
submitted to a jury. 117 Fla. 642; 158 So. 153. Upon a verdict
adverse to petitioners, the Circuit Court re-affirmed the original
judgments and sentences. Again, the State Supreme Court reversed,
holding that the issue of force, fear of personal violence and duress
had been properly submitted to the jury, but the issue raised by the
assignment of error alleging that the confessions and pleas "were not
in fact freely and voluntarily made" had not been clearly submitted
to the jury. 123 Fla. 734, 737; 167 So. 697, 700. A change of venue,
to Palm Beach County, was granted, a jury again found against
petitioners and the Broward Circuit Court once more reaffirmed the
judgments and sentences of death. The Supreme Court of Florida,
one judge dissenting, affirmed, 136 Fla. 568; 187 So. 156. While the
petition thus seeks review of the judgments and sentences of death
rendered in the Broward Circuit Court and reaffirmed in the Palm
Beach Circuit Court, the evidence before us consists solely of the transcript of proceedings (on writ of error coram nobis) in Palm Beach
County Court wherein the circumstances surrounding the obtaining
of petitioners' alleged confessions were passed on by a jury.
'Brown v. Mississippi, 297 U. S.278.

CHAMBERS v. FLORIDA.
227

Opinion of the Court.

proscribed by the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, we must determine independently whether
petitioners' confessions were so obtained, by review of
the facts upon which that issue necessarily turns.'
Second. The record showsAbout nine o'clock on the night of Saturday, May 13,
1933, Robert Darsey, an elderly white man, was robbed
and murdered in Pompano, Florida, a small town in
Broward County about twelve miles from Fort Lauderdale, the County; seat. The opinion of the Supreme
Court of Florida affirming petitioners' conviction for this
crime stated that "It was one of those crimes that induced
And, as the dissenting
an enraged community . . ."
judge pointed out, "The murder and robbery of the elderly
Mr. Darsey . .. was a most dastardly and atrocious
crime. It naturally aroused great and well justified
public indignation." 6
Between 9:30 and 10 o'clock after the murder, petitioner Charlie Davis was arrested, and within the next
twenty-four hours from twenty-five to forty negroes living in the community, including petitioners Williamson,
Chambers, and Woodward, were arrested without warrants and confined in the Broward County jail, at Fort
Lauderdale. On the night of the crime, attempts to trail
the murderers by bloodhounds brought J. T. Williams, a
convict guard, into the proceedings. From then until confessions were obtained and petitioners were sentenced, he
took a prominent part. About 11 P. M. on the following
Monday, May 15, the sheriff and Williams took several
of the imprisoned negroes, including Williamson and
Chambers, to the Dade County jail at Miami. The
'Pierre v. Louisiana, 306 U. S. 354, 358; Norris v. Alabama, 294
U. S. 587, 590.
136 Fla. 568, 572; 187 So. 156, 157.
'Id., 574.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

sheriff testified that they were taken there because he
felt a possibility of mob violence and "wanted to give protection to every prisoner . . . in jail."

Evidence of peti-

tioners was that on the way to Miami a motorcycle patrolman drew up to the car in which the men were riding
and the sheriff "told the cop that he had some negroes
that he-[was] taking down to Miami to escape a mob."
This statement was not denied by the sheriff in his testimony and Williams did not testify at all; Williams apparently has now disappeared. Upon order of Williams,
petitioner Williamson was kept in the death cell of the
Dade County jail. The prisoners thus spirited to Miami
were returned to the Fort Lauderdale jail the next day,
Tuesday.
It is clear from the evidence of both the State and
petitioners that from Sunday, May 14, to Saturday, May
20, the thirty to forty negro suspects were subjected to
questioning and cross questioning (with the exception
that several of the suspects were in Dade County jail over
one night). From the afternoon of Saturday, May 20,
until sunrise of the 21st, petitioners and possibly one or
two others underwent persistent and repeated questioning. The Supreme Court of Florida said the questioning
''was in progress several days and all night before the
confessions were secured" and referred to the last night
as an "all night vigil." The sheriff who supervised the
procedure of continued interrogation testified that he
questioned the prisoners "in the day time all the week,"
but did not question them during any night before the
all night vigil of Saturday, May 20, because after having
"questioned them all day . . . [he] was tired."

Other

evidence of the State was "that the officers of Broward
County were in that jail almost continually during the
whole week questioning these boys, and other boys, in
connection with this" case.

CHAMBERS v. FLORIDA.
227

Opinion of the Court.

The process of repeated questioning took place in the
jailer's quarters on the fourth floor of the jail. During
the week following their arrest and until their confessions
were finally acceptable to the State's Attorney in the early
dawn of Sunday, May 21st, petitioners and their fellow
prisoners were led one at a time from their cells to the
questioning room, quizzed, and returned to their cells to
await another turn. So far as appears, the prisoners at no
time during the week were permitted to see or confer with
counsel or a single friend or relative. When carried singly
from his cell and subjected to questioning, each found
himself, a single prisoner, surrounded in a fourth floor
jail room by four to. ten men, the county sheriff, his
deputies, a convict guard, and other white officers and
citizens of the community.
The testimony is in conflict as to whether all four
petitioners were continually threatened and physically
mistreated until they finally, in hopeless desperation and
fear of their lives, agreed to confess on Sunday morning
just after daylight. Be that as it may, it is certain that
by Saturday, May 20th, five days of continued questioning had elicited no confession. Admittedly, a concentration of effort-directed against a small number of
prisoners including petitioners-on the part of the questioners, principally the sheriff and Williams, the convict
guard, began about 3: 30 that Saturday afternoon. From
that hour on, with only short intervals for food and rest
for the questioners-"They all stayed up all night."
"They bring one of them at a time backwards and forwards . . . until they confessed." And Williams was
present and participating that night, during the whole
of which the jail cook served coffee and sandwiches to
the men who "grilled" the prisoners.
Sometime in the early hours of Sunday, the 21st, probably about 2:30 A. M., Woodward apparently "broke"--

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

as one of the state's witnesses put it-after a fifteen or
twenty minute period of questioning by Williams, the
sheriff and the constable "one right after the other." The
State's Attorney was awakened at his home, and called to
the jail. He came, but was dissatisfied with the confession of Woodward which he took down in writing at that
time, and said something like "tear this paper up, that
isn't what I want, when you get something worth while
call me." ' This same State's Attorney conducted the
state's case in the circuit court below and also made himself a witness, but did not testify as to why Woodward's
'A constable of the community, testifying about this particular
incident, said in part:
"Q. Were you there when Mr. Maire [State's Attorney] talked
to Walter Woodward the first time he came over there?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Take his confession down in writing?
"A. Yes.

"Q. If he made a confession why did you all keep on questioning
him about it. As a matter of fact, what he said that time wasn't
what you wanted him to say, was it?
"A. It wasn't what he said the last time.
"Q. It wasn't what you wanted him to say, was it?
"A. We didn't think it was all correct.
"Q. What part of it did you think wasn't correct. Would you
say what he told you there at that time was freely and voluntarily
made?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. What he freely and voluntarily told you in the way of a confession at that time, it wasn't what you wanted?
"A. It didn't make up like it should.
"Q. What matter didn't make up?
"A. There was some things he told us that couldn't possible be true.
"Q. What did Mr. Maire say about it at that time; did you hear
Mr. Maire say at this time 'tear this paper up, that isn't what I want,

CHAMBERS v. FLORIDA.
227

Opinion of the Court.

first alleged confession was unsatisfactory to him. The
sheriff did, however:
"A. No, it wasn't false, part of it was true and part of
it wasn't; Mr. Maire [the State's Attorney] said there
wasn't enough. It wasn't clear enough.

"Q..

. Was that voluntarily made at that time?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. It was voluntarily made that time?
"A. Yes, sir.
.

when you get something worth while call me,' or words to that effect?
"A. Something similar to that.
"Q. That did happen that night?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. That was in the presence of Walter Woodward?
"A. Yes, sir."
And petitioner Woodward testified on this subject as follows:
"A ....
I was taken out several times on the night of the 20th
... So I still denied it. ...
"A. He said I had told lies and kept him sitting up all the week
and he was tired and if I didn't come across I would never see the
sun rise.

"A.
then I was taken back to the private cell ....
and shortly
after that they come back, shortly after that, twenty or twenty-five
minutes, and bring me out. .. . I [told Williams] if he would send
for the State Attorney he could take down what I said, I said send
for him and I will tell him what I know. So he sent for Mr. Maire
some time during Saturday night, must have been around one or two
o'clock in the night, it was after midnight, and so he sent for Mr.
Maire, I didn't know Mr. Maire then, but I know him now by his
face.
"A. Well he come in and said 'this boy got something to tell me'
and Captain Williams says 'yes, he is ready to tell you.' . .
Mr. Maire had a pen and a book to take down what I told
him, which he said had to be on the typewriter, but I didn't see any
typewriter, I saw him with a pen and book, so whether it was short-

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

"Q. You didn't consider it sufficient?
"A. Mr. Maire.
"Q. Mr. Maire told you that it wasn't sufficient, so you
kept on questioning him until the time you got him to
make a free and voluntary confession of other matters
that he hadn't included in the first?
"A. No, sir, we questioned him there and we caught
him in lies.
"Q. Caught all of them telling lies?
"A. Caught every one of them lying to us that night,
yes, sir.
"Q. Did you tell them they were lying?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Just how would you tell them that?
"A. Just like I am talking to you.
hand or regular writing I don't know, but he took it down with pen.
After I told him my story he said it was no good, and he tore it
up ...
C'

"Q. What was it Mr. Maire said?
"A. He told them it wasn't no good, when they got something out
of me he would be back. It was late he had to go back and go to bed.
"A

....

I wasn't in the cell long before they come back .

'C

"Q. How long was that from the time you was brought into that
room until Mr. Maire left there?
"A. Something like two or three hours, I guess, because it was
around sunrise when I went into the room.
"Q. Had you slept any that night, Walter?
"A. No, sir. I was walked all night, not continually, but I didn't
have no time to sleep except in short spaces of the night.
'C

"Q. When Mr. Maire got there it was after daylight?
"A. Yes, sir.

"Q. Why did you say to them that morning anything after you
were brought into the room?
"A. Because I was seared, . .

CHAMBERS v. FLORIDA.
227

235

Opinion of the Court.

"Q. You said 'Jack, you told me a lie'?
"A. Yes, sir."
After one week's constant denial of all guilt, petitione:s
"broke."
Just before sunrise, the state officials got something
"worthwhile" from petitioners which the State's Attorney
would "want"; again he was called; he came; in the presence of those who had carried on and witnessed the allnight questioning, he caused his questions and petitioners'
answers to be stenographically reported. These are the
confessions utilized by the State to obtain the judgments
upon which petitioners were sentenced to death. No
formal charges had been brought before the confessions.
Two days thereafter, petitioners were indicted, were arraigned and Williamson and Woodward pleaded guilty;
Chambers and Davis pleaded not guilty. Later the sheriff, accompanied by Williams, informed an attorney who
presumably had been appointed to defend Davis that
Davis wanted his plea of not guilty withdrawn. This
was done, and Davis then pleaded guilty. When Chambers was tried, his conviction rested upon his confession
and testimony of the other three confessors. The convict
guard and the sheriff "were in the Court room sitting
down in a seat." And from arrest until sentenced to
death, petitioners were never-either in jail or in courtwholly removed from the constant observation, influence,
custody and control of those whose persistent pressure
brought about the sunrise confessions.
Third. The scope and operation of the Fourteenth
Amendment have been fruitful sources of controversy in
our constitutional history., However, in view of its his'There have been long-continued and constantly recurring differences of opinion as to whether general legislative acts regulating the
use of property could be invalidated as violating the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113,
125, dissent 136-154; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Minnesota,

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

torical setting and the wrongs which called it into being,
the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment-just as that in the Fifth-has led few to doubt
that it was intended to guarantee procedural standards
adequate and appropriate, then and thereafter,' to protect, at all times, people charged with or suspected of
crime by those holding positions of power and authority.
Tyrannical governments had immemorially utilized dictatorial criminal procedure and punishment to make
scapegoats of the weak, or of helpless political, religious,
or racial minorities and those who differed, who would not
conform and who resisted tyranny. The instruments of
such governments were, in the main, two. Conduct, innocent when engaged in, was subsequently made by fiat
criminally punishable without legislation. And a liberty
loving people won the principle that criminal punishments could not be inflicted save for that which proper
legislative action had already by "the law of the land"
forbidden when done. But even more was needed.
From the popular hatred and abhorrence of illegal confinement, torture and extortion of confessions of violations of the "law of the land" evolved the fundamental
idea that no man's life, liberty or property be forfeited as
criminal punishment for violation of that law until there
had been a charge fairly made and fairly tried in a pub134 U. S. 418, dissent 461-466. And there has been a current of
opinion-which this court has declined to adopt in many previous
cases--that the Fourteenth Amendment was intended to make secure
against state invasion all the rights, privileges and immunities protected from federal violation by the Bill of Rights (Amendments I
to VIII). See, e. g., Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 98-9,
Mr. Justice Harlan, dissenting, 114; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581,
dissent 606; O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S.323, dissent 361; Palko v.
Connecticut, 302 U. S.319, 325, 326; Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S.496.
'Cf. Weems v. United States, 217 U. S. 349, 372, 373, and dissent
setting out (p. 396) argument of Patrick Henry, 3 Elliot, Debates;
447.

CHAMBERS v. FLORIDA.
227

Opinion of the Court.

lic tribunal free of prejudice, passion, excitement, and
tyrannical power. Thus, as assurance against ancient
evils, our country, in order to preserve "the blessings of
liberty," wrote into its basic law the requirement, among
others, that the forfeiture of the lives, liberties or property of people accused of crime can only follow if procedural safeguards of due process have been obeyed.1"
The determination to preserve an accused's right to
procedural due process sprang in large part from knowledge of the historical truth that the rights and liberties
of people accused of crime could not be safely entrusted
to secret inquisitorial processes. The testimony of centuries, in governments of varying kinds over populations
of different races and beliefs, stood as proof that physical
and mental torture and coercion had brought about the
tragically unjust sacrifices of some who were the noblest
and most useful of their generations. The rack, the
thumbscrew, the wheel, solitary confinement, protracted
questioning and cross questioning, and other ingenious
forms of entrapment of the helpless or unpopular had
left their wake of mutilated bodies and shattered minds
along the way to the cross, the guillotine, the stake and
"As adopted, the Constitution provided, "The Privi'ege of the
Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases
of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it." (Art. I,
§ 9.) "No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed"
(Id.), "No State shall . . . pass any Bill of Attainder, or ex post facto
Law. ..

."

(Id., § 10), and "No Person shall be convicted of Treason

unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or
on Confession in open Court" (Art. III, § 3). The Bill of Rights
(Amend. I to VIII). Cf. Magna Carta, 1297 (25 Edw. 1); The
Petition of Right, 1627 (3 Car. 1, c. 1.); The Habeas Corpus Act,
1640 (16 Car. 1, c. 10.), An Act for [the Regulating] the Privie

Councell and for taking away the Court commonly called the Star
Chamber; Stat. (1661) 13 Car. 2, Stat. 1, C. 1 (Treason); The Bill
of Rights (1688) (1 Will. & Mar. sess. 2, c. 2.); all collected in
"Halsbury's Stat. of Eng." (1929) Vol. 3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

the hangman's noose. And they who have suffered most
from secret and dictatorial proceedings have almost always been the poor, the ignorant, the numerically weak,
the friendless, and the powerless. 1
This requirement-of conforming to fundamental
standards of procedure in criminal trials-was made operative against the States by the Fourteenth Amendment. Where one of several accused had limped into the
trial court as a result of admitted physical mistreatment
inflicted to obtain confessions upon which a jury had returned a verdict of guilty of murder, this Court recently
declared, Brown v. Mississippi, that "It would be difficult
to conceive of methods more revolting to the sense of
justice than those taken to procure the confessions of
these petitioners, and the use of the confessions thus obtained as the basis for conviction and sentence was a clear
denial of due process." 2
Here, the record develops a sharp conflict upon the issue of physical violence and mistreatment, but shows,
without conflict, the dragnet methods of arrest on suspicion without warrant, and the protracted questioning
and cross questioning of these ignorant young colored
tenant farmers by state officers and other white citizens,
in a fourth floor jail room, where as prisoners they were
without friends, advisers or counselors, and under circumstances calculated to break the strongest nerves and
" "In all third degree cases, it is remarkable to note that the confessions were taken from 'men of humble station in life and of a comparatively low degree of intelligence, and most of them apparently
too poor to employ counsel and too friendless to have any one advise
them of their rights.'"
Filamor, "Third Degree Confession," 13
Bombay L. J., 339, 346. "That the third degree is especially used
against the poor and uninfluential is asserted by several writers, and
confirmed by official informants and judicial decisions." IV National
Commission On Law Observance and Enforcement, Reports, (1931)
Ch. 3, p. 159. Cf. Morrison v. California, 291 U. S. 82, 95.
297 U. S. 278, 286.

CHAMBERS v. FLORIDA.
227

Opinion of the Court.

the stoutest resistance. Just as our decision in Broum v.
Mississippi was based upon the fact that the confessions
were the result of compulsion, so in the present case, the
admitted practices were such as to justify the statement
that "The undisputed facts showed that compulsion was
applied." "
For five days petitioners were subjected to interrogations culminating in Saturday's (May 20th) all night examination. Over a period of five days they steadily refused to confess and disclaimed any guilt. The very circumstances surrounding their confinement and their
questioning without any formal charges having been
brought, were such as to fill petitioners with terror and
frightful misgivings.1 Some were practical strangers in
" See Ziang Sung Wan v. United States, 266 U. S. 1, 16. The
dissenting Judge below noted, 136 Fla. 568, 576; 187 So. 156, 159,
that, in a prior appeal of this same case, the Supreme Court of
Florida had said: "Even if the jury totally disbelieved the testimony
of the petitioners, the testimony of Sheriff Walter Clark, and one
or two of the other witnesses introduced by the State, was sufficient
to show that these confessions were only made after such constantly
repeated and persistent questioning and cross-questioning on the part
of the officers and one J. T. Williams, a convict guard, at frequent
intervals while they were in jail, over a period of about a week,
and culminating in an all-night questioning of the petitioners separately in succession, throughout practically all of Saturday night,
until confessions had been obtained from all of them, when they
were all brought into a room in the jailer's quarters at 6:30 on
Sunday morning and made their confessions before the state attorney,
the officers, said J. T. Williams, and several disinterested outsiders,
the confessions, in the form of questions and answers, being taken
down by the court reporter, and then typewritten.
"Under the principles laid down in Nickels v. State, 90 Fla. 659,
106 So. 479; Davis v. State, 90 Fla. 317, 105 So. 843; Deiterle v.
State, 98 Fla. 739, 124 So. 47; Mathieu v. State, 101 Fla. 94, 133
So. 550, these confessions were not legally obtained." 123 Fla. 734,
741; 167 So. 697, 700.
" Cf. the statement of the Supreme Court of Arkansas, Bell v.
State, 180 Ark. 79, 89; 20 S. W. 2d 618, 622: "This negro boy was

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

the community; three were arrested in a one-room farm
tenant house which was their home; the haunting fear
of mob violence was around them in an atmosphere
charged with excitement and public indignation. From
virtually the moment of their arrest until their eventual
confessions, they never knew just when any one would be
called back to the fourth floor room, and there, surrounded by his accusers and others, interrogated by men
who held their very lives--so far as these ignorant petitioners could know-in the balance. The rejection of
petitioner Woodward's first "confession," given in the
early hours of Sunday morning, because it was found
wanting, demonstrates the relentless tenacity which
"broke" petitioners' will and rendered them helpless to
resist their accusers further. To permit human lives to
be forfeited upon confessions thus obtained would make
of the constitutional requirement of due process of law a
meaningless symbol.
We are not impressed by the argument that law enforcement methods such as those under review are necessary to uphold our laws.1 The Constitution proscribes
taken, on the day after the discovery of the homicide while he was
at his usual work, and placed in jail. He had heard them whipping
Swain in the jail; he was taken from the jail to the penitentiary at
Little Rock and turned over to the warden, Captain Todhunter, who
was requested by the sheriff to question him. This Todhunter proceeded to do, day after day, an hour at a time. There Bell was,
an ignorant country boy surrounded by all of those things that strike
terror to the negro heart; . . ." See Mfinsterberg, On the Witness
Stand, (1927) 137 et seq.
" The police practices here examined are to some degree widespread
throughout our country. See Report of Comm. on Lawless Enforcement of the Law (Amer. Bar Ass'n) 1 Amer. Journ. of Pol. Sci.,
575; Note 43 H. L. R. 617; IV National Commission On Law Observance And Enforcement, supra, Ch. 2, § 4. Yet our national
record for crime detection and criminal law enforcement compares
poorly with that of Great Britain where secret interrogation of an

CHAMBERS v. FLORIDA.
227

241

Opinion of the Court.

such lawless means irrespective of the end. And this
argument flouts the basic principle that all people must
stand on an equality before the bar of justice in every
American court. Today, as in ages past, we are not without tragic proof that the exalted power of some governments to punish manufactured crime dictatorially is the
handmaid of tyranny. Under our constitutional system,
courts stand against any winds that blow as havens of
refuge for those who might otherwise suffer because they
are helpless, weak, outnumbered, or because they are
non-conforming victims of prejudice and public excitement. Due process of law, preserved for all by our Constitution, commands that no such practice as that disclosed
by this record shall send any accused to his death. No
higher duty, no more solemn responsibility, rests upon
this Court, than that of translating into living law and
maintaining this constitutional shield deliberately planned
and inscribed for the benefit of every human being subject to our Constitution-of whatever race, creed or
persuasion.
accused or suspect is not tolerated. See, Report of Comm. on Lawless Enforcement of the Law, supra, 588; 43 H. L. R., supra, 618.
It has even been suggested that the use of the "third degree" has
lowered the esteem in which administration of justice is held by the
public and has engendered an attitude of hostility to and unwillingness
to co6perate with the police on the part of many people. See, IV
National Commission, etc., supra, p. 190. And, after scholarly investigation, the conclusion has been reached "that such methods, aside
from their brutality, tend in the long run to defeat their own purpose; they encourage inefficiency on the part of the police." Glueck,
Crime and Justice, (1936) 76. See IV National Commission, etc.,
supra, 5; cf. 4 Wigmore, Evidence, (2d ed.) § 2251. The requirement
that an accused be brought promptly before a magistrate has been
sought by some as a solution to the problem of fostering law enforcement without sacrificing the liberties and procedural rights of the
individual. 2 Wig., supra, § 851, IV National Commission, etc.,
supra, 5.
215234-40--16

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case.

309 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Florida was in error and its
judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION, REGION
NO. 4, v. BURR, DOING BUSINESS AS SECRETARIAL SERVICE BUREAU.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 354.

Argued January 31, February 1, 1940.-Decided
February 12, 1940.

1. Under the National Housing Act, as amended, which provides that
the Administrator shall, in carrying out the provisions of certain
of its titles, "be authorized, in his official capacity, to sue and be
sued in any court of competent jurisdiction, State or Federal," the
Federal Housing Administration is subject to be garnished, under
state law, for moneys due to an employee; but only those funds
which have been paid over to the Administration in accordance
with § 1 of the Act and which are in its possession, severed from
Treasury funds and Treasury control, are subject to execution.
Pp. 249-250.
2. Waivers by Congress of governmental immunity from suit in the
case of such federal instrumentalities should be construed liberally.
P. 245.
3. The words "sue and be sued" in their normal connotation embrace
all civil process incident to the commencement or continuance of
legal proceedings. Garnishment and attachment commonly are
part and parcel of the process, provided by statute, for the collection of debts. P. 245.
289 Mich. 91; 286 N. W. 169, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S.541, to review the affirmance of
a judgment against the Federal Housing Administration
in a garnishment proceeding.

