598

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
309 U. S.

Syllabus.

MAURER

ET AL.,

TRADING AS MAURER & MYERS

AUTO CONVOY, v. HAMILTON, SECRETARY OF

REVENUE OF PENNSYLVANIA,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 380.

Argued February 2, 1940. Reargued March 27, 28,
1940.-Decided April 22, 1940.

1. A Pennsylvania statute prohibiting the operation on the highways of the State of any vehicle carrying any other vehicle "above
the cab of the carrier vehicle or over the head of the operator
of such carrier vehicle," and applied to interstate carriers, held
consistent with due process of law, and consistent with the commerce clause in the absence of Congressional action. P. 603.
2. The Federal Motor Carrier Act of 1935 did not undertake to
deprive the State of power to impose this regulation upon vehicles
moving in interstate commerce. P. 604, et seq.
3. Section 204 of the Federal Motor Carrier Act empowers the
Interstate Commerce Commission to establish reasonable requirements with respect to "safety of operation and equipment" of motor
vehicles of common and contract carriers in interstate commerce,
but its authority with respect to sizes and weights of vehicles is
expressly limited in § 225 to investigation and report on the need
of regulation. P. 607.
4. "Sizes and weight" in the meaning of § 225 includes the size
and weight of the motor vehicle and its load. P. 610.
5. The authority to regulate the "sizes and weight" of motor vehicles, left with the States by § 225 of the Federal Motor Carrier
Act, is not restricted to over-all measurements aid gross weight,
but includes particular dimensions of motor vehicles and their loads
and the weight distribution of load, which affect safety as well as
the wear and tear of the highways. P. 610.
6. The Pennsylvania regulation is an exercise of the state's power
to protect the safe and convenient use of its highways, which it was
the purpose of § 225 to reserve to the State from the grant of
regulatory power to the Commission. P. 611.
7. In ordinary speech the load of a vehicle is not spoken of as a
part of its equipment. P. 612.
8. Even if the phrase "operation and equipment" in § 204 could be
taken, when standing alone, as including the weight and size of

MAURER V. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

loads, it can not be so taken when read in conjunction with the
reservation of § 225 of "sizes and weight" from the regulatory
power of the Commission. P. 612.
9. Congressional intention to displace local laws in the exercise of
the commerce power is not to be inferred unless clearly indicated.
P. 614.
336 Pa. 17; 7 A. 2d 466, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal of a
complaint in an action to enjoin the enforcement of a
state regulation of motor vehicles.

Messrs. Sterling G. McNees and Edmund M. Brady,
with whom Mr. Gilbert Nurick was on the brief, on the
reargument and on the original argument, for appellants.
Mr. George W. Keitel, Assistant Deputy Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Claude T. Reno, Attorney General, was on the brief, on the reargument and

on the original argument, for appellees.
By leave of Court, Solicitor General Biddle and Messrs.
E. M. Reidy, Edwin E. Huddleson, Jr., and Daniel W.
Knowlton filed -a brief on behalf of the United States
et al., as amici curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question for decision is whether a statute of Pennsylvania prohibiting the operation over its highways of

any motor vehicle carrying any other vehicle over the
head of the operator of such carrier vehicle, is superseded
by the rules and regulations promulgated by the Interstate Commerce Commission under the Motor Carrier
Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 543, 49 U. S. C. §§ 301-327, applicable to common and contract carriers in interstate commerce.
Appellants, co-partners engaged as common carriers in
the business of transporting in interstate commerce new

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

automobiles upon motor trucks specially constructed for
that purpose, brought this suit in the Pennsylvania state
courts to enjoin appellees, state officers, from enforcing
against appellants § 1033(c) of the Pennsylvania Vehicle
Code, effective June 29, 1937, 75 P. S. 642, which prohibits the operation on the highways of the state of any
vehicle carrying any other vehicle "above the cab of the
carrier vehicle or over the head of the operator of such carrier vehicle."' Two other like suits brought by motor carriers engaged in like transportation interstate were consolidated with the present suit.
After a hearing in which there was extensive evidence.
tending to show that the transportation by appellants over
the state highways of cars placed above the cab of the
transporting vehicle is unsafe to the driver and to the
public, the trial court found that the location of motor
vehicles over the cab of the carrier rendered its operation
dangerous on the curves and grades of the Pennsylvania
1"(c)

No person shall operate a vehicle on the highways of this

Commonwealth carrying any other vehicle, any part of which is above
the cab of the carrier vehicle or over the head. of the operator of
such carrier vehicle."
After the argument of the appeal in this case, but before the decree
in the State Supreme Court, this section was amended to read:
"(c) No person shall operate a vehicle on the highways of this
Commonwealth carrying any other vehicle, the weight of which is
directly above the cab of the carrier vehicle or directly over the
head of the operator of such carrier vehicle." Act No. 400 of June 27,
1939.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in its opinion, considered this
amendment and concluded that the statute both before and after the
amendment applied to the vehicles used by appellants and was directed at the same evils, and that no essential change was made by the
amendment, a construction which we adopt. The Supreme Court
also concluded that as the amendment named no date when it was
to take effect it would become effective some two months later, on
September 1, 1939, as provided by § 4 of the Statutory Construction
Act of May 28, 1937, P. L. 1019, 1020.

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

highways. It found that such location of the carried car
above the driver raises the center of gravity of the loaded
car above that which is normal in trucking operations,
places excessive weight on the front axles and tires, obscures the vision of the driver of the carrier car, with the
results that it increases the difficulty of steering the
loaded car, adversely affects braking, particularly on
curves, and affects the balance of the loaded car so as to
make its use on the highways dangerous.
It also found that in case of collision or loss of control
the overhead car has a tendency to fly off the cab, in consequence of which, in numerous cases, serious injury had
resulted to the operator of the truck or to the colliding
car and its occupants, or both, and that the height of the
overhead car and its interference with the driver's vision
causes him to drive on the wrong side of the road in order
to avoid overhead obstructions. The court concluded
that the state statute was a safety regulation of motorcars using the highways of the state and that, as applied
to appellants, it infringed neither the commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution nor the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, and gave judgment dismissing the complaint. On appeal the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania confirmed the findings of the trial court and
affirmed the decree. 336 Pa. 17; 7 A. 2d 466. The case
comes here on appeal under § 237 of the Judicial Code,
as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 344.
Before the present suit was brought, the Interstate
Commerce Commission, purporting to act under the Motor Carrier Act, had promulgated regulations effective
July 1, 1936, with respect to "safety of operation and
equipment" of common and contract motor carriers in
interstate commerce, subject to the Act. These regulations contained no provisions specifically applicable to
cars carried over the cab of the carrier vehicle. On
March 11, 1939, while the present cause was pending be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

fore the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the Interstate
Commerce Commission, in "Car Over Cab Operations,"
12 M. C. C. 127, issued its report of an investigation of the
practice of the car over cab method of transportation of
motor vehicles, in which it announced its conclusion that
"The record discloses no testimony whatsoever to show
that the operation of motor vehicles, used in transporting
new automobiles, and which are so constructed that one
of the automobiles being transported extends in whole or
in part over the cab, is unsafe. On the contrary, the
evidence is clear that the average number of accidents in
which vehicles of this type are involved is less than the
country's average for all trucks. We find no reasons of
record why the operations of such vehicles should be forbidden. The safety regulations heretofore prescribed by
us, of course, apply to these as well as other vehicles
operated by common and contract carriers in interstate or
foreign commerce. The operations of vehicles so equipped are therefore permitted by the existing regulations,
and there is no need for change." (p. 132.)2
"The report of the Interstate Commerce Commission states, page
133, that in this proceeding "the only evidence was introduced by
or on behalf of carriers engaged in the type of operation under
investigation," that the State of Pennsylvania declined to participate
in the proceeding and that a representative of the state invited the
attention of the Commission to the evidence which had been taken
in the present suit, but that such evidence was not made a part of
the record in the proceeding before the Commission and was not considered by it. The Commission, so far as the report discloses, gave no
consideration to the consequences of placing the carried car above the
cab of the motor carrier when accidents do in fact occur, to the
effect of the weight distribution of the combination when used on
highways of grades and curves over which petitioners operate in
Pennsylvania, and its tendency to cause the driver of the combination
to hold to the middle of the road to avoid injury to the carried car
on the tree-lined highways of the state, all of which were deemed
by the state courts in the present case to have an important bearing
on safety.

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania took judicial notice
of this action of the Commission, but concluded that the
authority of the state to enact § 1033 (c) of the Vehicle
Code was unimpaired by federal action under the cornmere clause for the reason that the applicable provisions
of the Motor Carrier Act, enacted by Congress, did not
purport to withdraw from the state its constitutional
power to make the regulation embodied in that section,
and for a second reason, which we find it unnecessary to
consider, that in any case the action of the Commission
in declining to adopt any rule or regulation with respect
to the car over cab practice of interstate common and contract motor carriers could not be taken as a mandate to
such carriers to continue the practice despite state regulation prohibiting it.
Appellants assail the state statute on the grounds that
even though it is unaffected by the provisions of the
Motor Carrier Act it nevertheless infringes the commerce
clause and the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and that in any case the statute is superseded
by the action taken by the Commission in conformity to
the Motor Carrier Act.
Only a word need be said of the constitutional objections. The present record lays a firm foundation for
the exercise of state regulatory power, unless the state
has been deprived of that power by Congressional action
authorizing the Commission to substitute its judgment for
that of the state legislature as to the need and propriety
of the state regulation. The nature and extent of the
state power, in the absence of Congressional action, to
regulate the use of its highways by vehicles engaged in
interstate commerce has so recently been considered by
this Court that it is unnecessary to review the authorities now, or to restate the standards which define the
state power to prescribe regulations adapted to promote
safety upon its highways and to insure their conservation

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

and convenient use by the public. See South Carolina
Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177. Judged
by these standards we can find no basis for saying that
the Pennsylvania statute is not such a regulation or that
it is a denial of due process or that it infringes the commerce clause if Congress has not authorized the Interstate Commerce Commission to promulgate a conflicting
rule.
This brings us to the more serious question whether
Congress, by the enactment of the Motor Carrier Act of
1935, as a regulation of interstate commerce, has undertaken to deprive the state of the power to impose the
present regulation upon vehicles moving in interstate
commerce. With the adoption of the Motor Carrier Act,
the national government embarked on the regulation of
a type of interstate traffic many of whose regulatory
problems bear little resemblance to those of other systems
of transportation which had previously been subjected to
Congressional control. They presented difficulties and
complexities differing from and far exceeding those of any
earlier regulations of interstate commerce. Our most
extensive experience had been in the national regulation
of rail carriers, operating over roads and with rolling
stock privately owned and controlled, with standards of
roadbed, operation and equipment, substantially uniform
throughout the country, and with the movement of
traffic on each road subject to a single unified control.
Regulation of vehicular traffic over the highways of
the United States involves a far more varied and complex
undertaking. The highways of the country have been
built by the states with substantial financial aid from
the federal government in the construction of some of
them.' They are state owned, and, in general, are open
"For the significance of federal aid, see hearings before Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce on S. 2793, 72d Cong., 1st Sess. (1932),
p. 217. See also Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Walters, 294 U. S.
405, 417.

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

in each state to use by privately owned and controlled
motor vehicles of widely different character as respects
weight, size, and equipment.' The width, grades, curves,
weight-bearing capacity, surfacing and overhead obstructions of the highways differ widely in the forty-eight,
different states and in different sections of each state.
There are like variations with respect to congestion of
traffic. State regulation, developed over a period of years,
has been directed to the safe and convenient use of the
highways and their conservation with reference to varying local needs and conditions.
Assumption of national control involved problems of
peculiar difficulty and delicacy. Apart from regulations
of interstate motor traffic having commercial aims and
involving routes, schedules, rates and the like, any regulation on a national scale, whatever its extent, has an
intimate and vital relation to the conservation of highways which belong to the states, and to their safe and
convenient use by the general public in both interstate
and intrastate traffic. Our entire experience with the
growth of automobile traffic and its regulation by the
states teaches that in any form of non-commercial regulation, safety is a dominant consideration. Motor vehicles are dangerous machines whose operation is attended
by serious hazard to persons and property. Hess v.
Pawloski, 274 U. S. 352, 356. In 1934, the year before
the enactment of the Motor Carrier Act, there were
36,000 reported deaths from motorcar accidents in the
United States.' Excessive speed, defective appliances,
' It is estimated that 85 per cent of all trucks are privately owned
and operated, and that over 200,000 separate trucks would be subject
to the federal regulation. See Hearings before Senate Committee on
Interstate Commerce on S. 2793, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 223; S. Doc.
152, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 28 (1934); Hearings before House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce on. H. R. 5262, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess. (1935), p. 156, et seq.
'Accident Facts (1936) published by National Safety Counsel, Inc.

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

negligent driving, size, weight and loading of cars in conjunction with local conditions of traffic and of the highways, contributed in varying degrees to this record of
disaster.
It is in the light of this history and background that
we must appraise and apply the provisions of the Motor
Carrier Act of 1935. The declared policy of the Act, § 202
(a), is to preserve and foster the economic and commercial advantages of an efficient transportation system.
The power to regulate, which it confers on the Interstate
Commerce Commission, extends in some measure to safety
regulations. Section 204 (a) provides:
"It shall be the duty of the Commission-(1) To regulate common carriers by motor vehicle as provided in this
part, and to that end the Commission may establish reasonable requirements with respect to continuous and adequate service, transportation of baggage and express,
uniform systems of accounts, records, and reports, preservation of records, qualifications and maximum hours of
service of employees, and safety of operation and equipment."
Subdivision (2) imposes a like duty upon the Commission to regulate "contract carriers." Subdivision (3) imposes the duty
"To establish for private carriers of property by motor
vehicle, if need therefor is found, reasonable requirements
to promote safety of operation, and to that end prescribe
qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees,
and standards of equipment."
Section 225 provides:
"The Commission is hereby authorized to investigate
and report on the need for Federal regulation of the sizes
and weight of motor vehicles and combinations of motor
vehicles and of the qualifications and maximum hours of

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

service of employees of all motor carriers and private
carriers of property by motor vehicle; . . ."
The words of this section indicate, as its history demonstrates, that it was intended to reserve from the regulatory power of the Commission the regulation of "sizes
and weight of motor vehicles." Unlike § 204 (a) (3),
which makes it the duty of the Commission "if need therefor is found" to establish reasonable requirements to promote safety of operation and to prescribe standards of
equipment for "private carriers of property," § 225 imposes no duty and confers no authority on the Commission
to regulate the sizes and weights of motor vehicles.' Its
authority is limited to investigation and report of the need
7
of such regulation.
The bill containing the provisions of §§ 204 and 225
which we have quoted, was prepared by the Federal
Coordinator of Transportation and its adoption was
recommended in his 1934 report to the Interstate Com' Cf. Coordination of Motor Transportation, 182 I. C. C. 263, 387,
Recommendation 11.
'On November 8, 1937, the Commission ordered an Investigation
"IN

THE MATTER OF REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SIZES AND WEIGHT

OF MOTOR VEHICLES AND COMBINATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES USED BY
COMMON AND CONTRACT CARRIERS ...

AND PRIVATE CARRIERS....

"1. To enable the Commission to make a report under the provisions
of section 225 on the need for Federal regulation of the sizes and
weight of motor vehicles and combinations thereof.
"2. To enable the Commission to prescribe reasonable requirements
under the provisions of section 204 of the act as to the sizes and
weight of motor vehicles and combinations therefor insofar as they
affect the safety of operation."
The Commission is now engaged in making its investigation and
has made no report of its findings or conclusions. Report No. 1, a
preliminary study as yet unpublished: (April, 1940), made by the
Bureau of Motor Carriers, Interstate Commerce Commission, is
devoted to an analysis of state limitations of sizes and weights of
motor vehicles.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

merce Commission, which transmitted the report and
proposed bill to the Senate with its favorable recommendation. Sen. Doc. No. 152, 73rd Cong., 2d Sess.
The report made no mention of the scope, purpose or
meaning of § 225, other than the statement, p. 49, that
it provides for "investigation and report to Congress of
the need, if any, for federal regulation of the sizes and
weights of motor vehicles." The report referred, p. 32,
to the facts that the states regulate extensively the length,
width, height and speed of motor vehicles, and their
maximum gross weights and require that they "be
equipped with a variety of safety appliances"; that these
regulations "are designed in part to protect the safety
and convenience of the public in its use of the highways and in part to protect the highways from excessive
wear and tear," and that the "requirements as to gross
weights, lengths, and widths of vehicles are often
grounded in State policies with respect to the design of
highways," with respect to their weight sustaining capacity and their curves. In testifying at the hearings
upon the bill before the Senate Committee on Interstate
Commerce, the Coordinator explained the provisions of
§ 225 by stating:
"with respect to size and weight of vehicles . . . we do
not undertake in this bill to cover that situation except
to provide for a thorough investigation of it by the Commission with recommendations to Congress because there
is involved not only a question of fact as to what the
regulation should be, but also as to how far the federal
government has power to interfere with the exercise
of the police power of the states with respect to the use
of their highways. They have the right to protect their
highways against unsafe or unreasonable use, but whether
or not the federal government can come in and interfere
with it I cannot say at this time." Hearings before

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce on S. 1629,
74th Cong., 1st Sess., (1935) p. 92.8
Again, page 61, he referred to "sizes and weights" as "an
extremely important matter from the standpoint of public
safety and convenience." This Court has also had
occasion to point out that the sizes and weights of automobiles have an important relation to the safe and convenient use of the highways, which are matters of state
control. SprOles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., supra. It is evident that the purport of § 225 is to reserve "sizes and
weight" from the regulatory powers of the Commission,
quite as much when related to safety as when related to
highway construction, pending investigation and report
by the Commission of the need for such regulation, and
further consideration of the matter by Congress. Such
has been the uniform construction of § 225 by courts having occasion to consider the subject.9
'On page 61 of the Report the Coordinator stated: "But on this
question of sizes and weight of motor vehicles, which is an extremely
important matter from the standpoint of public safety and convenience, there is not only the question here as to what those sizes

and weights ought to be from the standpoint of road construction and
road use, but there is also the legal question as to whether the federal
government can exercise power over the matter, or whether it is a
matter exclusively within the jurisdiction of the states. It was because
of doubts not only as to the facts with reference to that matter, but

also to the law that provisions were made for this investigation."
The Committee Reports make no comment on § 225. See S. Rept.
No. 482, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. Rept. No. 1645, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess.
'L. & L. Freight Lines v. Railroad Commission, 17 F. Supp. 13
(1936); Barnwell Bros. v. South Carolina State Highway Dept., 17
F. Supp. 803 (1937); Werner Transportation Co. v. Hughes, 19 F.
Supp. 425 (1937); Houston & North Texas Freight Lines v. Phares,
19 F. Supp. 420 (1937); Morrison v. State, 133 Tex. Cr. App. 141;
109 S. W. 2d 205 (1937); Yellow Cab Transit Co. v. Tuck, 115 S. W.
215234°-40--39

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

On the argument before us it was conceded that the
"size and weight of motor vehicles," of which § 225
speaks, must be taken to include the sizes and weights of
motor vehicles and their loads. This is evident both because an investigation of sizes and weights of motor vehicles, apart from their load, would be useless so far as
the major problems of safety and use of the highways are
concerned and because, as presently will appear, the state
regulation of sizes and weights to be investigated has
from the beginning included sizes and weights of the
loaded vehicle. The. power of the states to regulate the
sizes and weights of loaded motor vehicles was thus left
undisturbed. Such other courts as have had occasion to
consider. the matter in the cases already noted have arrived at the same conclusion. 10
But the question remains whether the Pennsylvania
statute is a regulation of "size and weight" within the
meaning of § 225, or whether it is a regulation of "safety
of operation and equipment," which the Commission was
authorized to make by § 204 (1) (2). Perusal of the
present record can leave no doubt that in both a technical
and a practical sense § 1033 (c) is a regulation of weight
and size of the loaded motor vehicle, and that the Pennsylvania Legislature intended it to be such.1 By provid2d 455 (Tex. Civ. App. 1938); see H. P. Welch Co. v. New Hampshire, 306 U. S.79 (1939).
Upon the appeal in South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell
Bros., supra, to the Supreme Court, respondents abandoned their contention in the trial court that power to regulate the loaded weight
and size of motor vehicles had not been withheld from the Commission by § 225. 303 U. S.177.
'oSee note 9, supra.
"In addition to subsection (c) of § 1033, which in its amended
form is specifically directed to the location of the "weight" of the
carried car, the section contains three other subdivisions which affect
size and weight distribution of the loaded vehicle. Subsection (a)
prohibits the operation of vehicles "having two levels for the carriage

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

ing that the carried car shall not be loaded above the cab,
the statute sets practical limits to the height of the loaded
car and precludes its projection beyond the cab of the
carrier car and into the line of vision of its driver. It is
also a restriction on weight distribution of the loaded car
and in its amended form specifically prohibits placing the
"weight" of the carried car above the driver.' The highest court of the state has declared that such are the purposes of subsection (c), in order to avoid the safety hazards resulting from improper weight distribution and the
height of the carried car at a point where it cannot be
observed by the driver. As interpreted and applied by
the state court, we can not regard the regulation as other
than an exercise of the state's power to protect the safe
and convenient use of its highways through the control
of size and weight of motor vehicles passing over them,
which it was the purpose of § 225 to reserve to the state
from the grant of regulatory power to the Commission.
Being thus reserved we think it is unaffected by the
authority conferred on the Commission by § 204 to regulate "safety of operation and equipment."
The Commission in its report in "Car Over Cab Operations," supra, gave no consideration to the extent of its
authority under § 204, to make safety regulations affecting the car over cab practice or to the question whether
the Pennsylvania restriction is in fact and in practical
operation a weight and size regulation, or whether the
of other vehicles." Subdivision (b) prohibits operation of vehicles
carrying other vehicles any part of which is more than 115 inches
from the ground; and subdivision (d) prohibits the operation of
vehicles carrying any other vehicle "any axle of which is more than
3 feet higher than any other axle on such carrying vehicle." Subsections (a), (b) and (d) do not become effective until January 1,
1942. West Virginia has a statute containing similar provisions. Ch.
88, Acts of W. Va., 1939.
"See note 1, supra.

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

authority to make such regulations is reserved to the
The power of the Commission to regustates by § 22.
late with respect to safety in the case of common and contract carriers is defined by § 204(a) (1) and (2), which
makes it the duty of the Commission to regulate "safety
of operation and equipment." In the exercise of this
authority the Commission has made no regulation concerning sizes and weight of motor vehicles or their loads.
But in a brief filed in this cause it contends that the Pennsylvania statute is an infringement of the Commission's
authority to regulate safety of equipment. In ordinary
speech the load of a vehicle is not spoken of as a part of
its equipment. In the Motor Carrier Safety Regulations,
promulgated by the Commission, safety of equipment is
treated as synonymous with or the -equivalent of parts
and accessories of motor cars affecting safety. The Uniform Act regulating motor car traffic on highways, which
was recommended by the National Conference of State
and Highway Safety in 1930 and 1934, which was referred to in the report of the Coordinator, placed all size
and weight regulations in a single "Article XVI, Size,
Weight and Load," separate from the articles containing
provisions relating to the speed, driving and movement
of motor cars and from "Article XV, Equipment," which
was confined to automobile parts and accessories and
their inspection.1"
But even though the phrase "operation and equipment"
of motor cars could be taken, when standing alone, as including the weight and size of their loads, we think it
plain that it cannot be so taken when read in conjunction
with the reservation in § 225 of "sizes and weights" from
the regulatory power of the Commission. As the report
"See Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, IV, National
Conference on Street and Highway Safety (1930), 38, 49; Uniform
Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, V, Bureau of Public Roads,
United States Department of Agriculture (1934), 23, 35.

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

of the Coordinator and the legislation in the several states
shows, and as this Court has recognized, see Sproles. v.
Binford, supra; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barn,
well Bros., supra, the sizes and weights of motor vehicles
and their loads present safety problems which are special
and distinct from those involved in the driving and movement of cars ordinarily known as their operation, and
from their parts and accessories ordinarily referred to as
motor car equipment. As we have seen, one of the purposes of the reservation made in § 225 was to give opportunity for further study and consideration by the Commission of the relation of sizes and weights of motor cars
to the public safety and convenience, as well as to road
construction and use so that the Commission and Congress might be advised what the regulation of these safety
factors should be and how far Congress should interfere
with their regulation by the states.
The Couzens bill, S. 2793, § 2 (a) (1) (2), 72d Cong.,
1st Sess., discussed in the 1934 report of the Coordinator,
authorized the Commission to prescribe reasonable requirements with respect to "safety of operation and equipment
(including the weight, length, width and height of motor
vehicles used by such carriers)." This proposal was not
adopted and in the bill recommended by the Coordinator
and the Commission in 1934 and enacted as the Motor
Carrier Act of 1935, the parenthetical clause in the provision authorizing regulation of safety of operation and
equipment as it appeared in the Couzens bill, was transferred to § 225, where it appeared as "sizes and weight of
motor vehicles," federal regulation of which was reserved
to await the future action of Congress. The clause which
was thus resorted to in the earlier bill to include regulations of sizes and weight in the authority to regulate
"safety of operation and equipment" was by its transfer
to § 225 of the Act of 1935 similarly made the means of
withholding from the regulatory power of the Commission regulations of sizes and weight affecting safety.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

As a matter of statutory construction Congressional intention to displace local laws in the exercise of the commerce power is not, in general, to be inferred unless clearly
indicated by those considerations which are persuasive of
the statutory purpose. This is especially the case when
public safety and health are concerned. Kelly v. Washington,302 U. S. 1, 10-14; H. P. Welch Co. v. New Hampshire, 306 U. S. 79, 85 and cases cited. There are other
cogent reasons why the reservation made by § 225 cannot
be given a narrow construction. The hesitancy manifested
by Congress, until the adoption of the 1935 Act, to interfere with the state highway regulations and its failure then
to follow earlier and more far-reaching proposals are persuasive against such a construction. 4 A thorough investigation by the Commission which the statute authorized
was necessary not only to determine the importance of
sizes and weight "from the standpoint of public safety and
convenience," but also to resolve the uncertainty of the
draftsmen of the bill and presumably of Congress "as -to
the facts with reference to the matter" and "as to what the
regulation should be." S. Doc. No. 152, 73rd Cong., 2d
Sess., p. 61. The extent to which Congress should, if at
14Prior

to the 70th Congress, the bills for federal regulation con-

tained no provisions of any kind relating to size and weight. Beginning with the 70th Congress the bills almost uniformly provided that
interstate carriers should remain subject to state regulations relating
"to the maintenance, protection, safety, or use of the highways
therein, which do not discriminate against motor vehicles used in
interstate commerce." The Rayburn bill which the Interstate Commerce Commission approved, contained such a clause (S. Doc. 152,
73d Cong., 2nd Sess., 25). Only the Couzens bill (S. 2793, 72d
Cong., 1st Sess.) affirmatively prescribed federal regulation. The
Dill bill (S. 3171, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.) and S. 1629, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., which was finally enacted as the Motor Carrier Act, envisaged
the possibility of such regulation of size and weights but only after
a report to Congress. For a discussion of these bills see Kauper,
Federal Regulation of Motor Carriers, 33 Mich. L. Rev. 239, 240-243,
notes 128, 129, 132.

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

all, curtail state regulation, could be determined only when
those doubts were resolved.
A considerable period of time was required for preparation for the investigation and for bringing it to a conclusion. The investigation which was authorized in November 1937, Ex parte No. M. C. 15, has not yet proceeded beyond the preliminary stage of gathering
information. It could not be assumed that in the
meantime a rapidly changing industry would not produce
new types of vehicles involving new problems of the
relation of sizer and weight to safety such as are involved
in the present case. A construction of the reservation
made in § 225 is not to be favored which would deprive
the states of authority to make safety regulations of
sizes and weight before Congress was informed by a full
investigation and report of the Commission of the nature
of the regulations, both those in force and those which
are needed, and whether in the light of the competing
demands for national uniformity and for accommodation
to local conditions, regulation of sizes and weight can be
best prescribed by the Commission, by the state legislatures, or by a divided authority. For these reasons we
think that the reservation of state power by § 225 is
not restricted to the particular problems of weight and
size which the traffic had developed at the moment when
the act was passed, or which were then known to the
Commission, in advance of the investigation which was
to ascertain the facts, what the regulation should be
and how far regulations of sizes and weights should be
withdrawn from the states.
Sizes and weights which affect safety, not excluding
consideration of local conditions, as well as those which
affect wear and tear of the highways were to be the subject of investigation, and it is the subject of investigation
which defines the reservation from the Commission's
authority to regulate. Hence the phrase "sizes and
weight" in § 225, when safety is concerned, is not to be

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

narrowly limited to the overall length, width and height
of the loaded cars and to their gross weight. For as we
have seen, distribution of weight and dimensions of load
or particular parts of it in connection with local conditions of curves, grades and overhead obstruction of the
highways, have an important relation to safety. In the
light of the investigation Congress might conclude that
the regulation of gross weights and dimensions, concededly
left to the states, could not be conveniently or wisely
separated from regulation of weight distribution and
particular dimensions.
It is true that the report of the Coordinator presenting
the bill for Congressional action particularized gross
weight and overall dimensions as a common subject of
regulation by the states and as a reason for making the
investigation. But we find nothing in the report, or in
his testimony before the Senate Committee, or elsewhere
in the legislative history, to show that it was intended by
§ 225 to confine state power to regulation of sizes and
weights of automobiles and their loads to gross weights
and overall dimensions. The bill as proposed and as
enacted did not specify any such limitation of "sizes and
weight," and it was well known that state size and weight
regulations then in force or proposed were not so
restricted.
Schedule, B of the 1934 report of the Coordinator disclosed, page 213, that state regulation was then concerned
with distribution of load weight by axle and wheel weight
requirements. The weight provisions of the Uniform Act
proposed by the National Conference on State and Highway Safety in 1930 and 1934, contained gross weight limitations and axle weight limitations which involved distribution of weight of the loaded car. The preliminary
report (No. 1) of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
Bureau of Motor Carriers of April, 1940, p. 71, notes
various state regulations fixing axle weight or wheel
weight limitations, sometimes with and sometimes with-

MAURER v. HAMILTON.
598

Opinion of the Court.

out a gross weight limitation, and states that the combination of these factors "is basically intended to control
not only total gross weight of the vehicle and its load but
also distribution of the load on the vehicle."
The proposed Uniform Act also contained provisions,
in "Article XVI, Size, Weight and Load" (§ 78 (e) of the
1930 Draft; § 142 (d) of the 1934 Draft), for the distribution or location of load and its particular dimensions, independently of gross weight and overall measurements.
They directed that "the load upon any vehicle . . . shall
not extend more than three feet beyond the front wheels
of such vehicle or the front bumper of such vehicle if it is
equipped with such a bumper." Report No. 1 of the
Commission indicates that this provision has been
adopted in twenty-three states and that three states prohibit any such projection of load. As already noted, the
present Pennsylvania statute regulating car over cab operation has been enacted in substance in West Virginia.1"
Reading the words of § 225 in the light of its legislative
history, and mindful of the peculiar conditions of the
traffic and the problems of state regulation to which the
section must be applied, and of its obvious purpose to
postpone until the report of the Commission determination of the extent to which Congress should withdraw
from the states their power to regulate sizes and weight of
motor vehicles, we cannot say that the phrase as used in
the statute is restricted to overall measurements or gross
weight, or that it does not include particular dimensions
of motor vehicles and their loads and the distribution of
load, which affect safety as well as tht wear and tear of
the highways. We conclude that the Pennsylvania
statute now before us is a weight and size regulation
within the meaning of § 225, and is within the regulatory
authority of the state reserved by that section from the
authority granted to the Commission by § 204.

Affirmed.
"See note 11, supra.

