560

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

TRADESMENS NATIONAL BANK OF OKLAHOMA
CITY v. OKLAHOMA TAX COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 596. Submitted March 6, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.
1. Congress constitutionally may authorize state taxation of the
franchises of national banking associations. P. 564.
2. R. S. § 5219, as amended March 25, 1926, authorizes state taxation of national banking associations-in addition to other methods
theretofore authorized-"according to or measured by their net
income," including "the entire net income received from all sources,"
subject only to certain restrictions as to the rate. As amended
in 1935, an Oklahoma statute imposing on such associations a tax
measured by net income, contained a provision expressly including
in gross income (from which the net income was computed) interest
from tax-exempt federal securities, which theretofore had been
expressly excluded. Held, a tax under the Oklahoma statute, the
measure of which included dividends on federal reserve bank stock
and interest on tax-exempt federal securities, was authorized by
R. S. § 5219, and valid. P. 565.
3. T~at the Oklahoma statute, in provisions for computing taxes on
net income of corporations other than national banking associations, expressly excludes interest from tax-exempt federal securities,
does not render it violative of the restriction in R. S. § 5219 that
"the rate shall not be higher than . . . the highest of the rates . . .
assessed upon mercantile, manufacturing, and business corporations
doing business" within the State, where, considering the State's tax
structure as a whole, no discrimination against national banking
associations results. P. 567.
That a few individual corporations, out of a class of several
thousand which ordinarily bear the same or a heavier tax burden,
may sustain a lighter tax than that imposed on national banking
associations, is not proof of discrimination.
4. The restrictions placed by R. S. § 5219 on the permitted methods
of taxation are directed at systems of state taxation which in practical operation discriminate against national banking associations
or their shareholders as a class. P. 567.
185 Okla. 656; 95 P. 2d 121, affirmed.

TRADESMENS BANK v. TAX COMM'N.
560

561

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment denying recovery of taxes alleged to have been illegally exacted.
Mr. E. A. Walker submitted for appellant.
Mr. F. M. Dudley submitted for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal under § 237 of the Judicial Code from
a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, denying
recovery of taxes alleged to have been exacted from appellant, a national banking corporation, in violation of
the provisions of R. S. 5219 and the Constitution of the
United States.
Section 16 of the Oklahoma Income Tax Law of 1935,
S. L. 1935, c. 66, art. 6,1. lays a tax upon every national
banking association located or doing business within the
state "according to, or measured by, its net income" at the
'The text of § 16 reads as follows:
"(a) In lieu of the tax imposed by Section 6, every national banking association located or doing business within the limits of the State
of Oklahoma, shall annually, pay to this State, a tax according to, or
measured by, its net income, to be computed in the manner hereinafter provided, at the following rates upon the basis of its entire net
income for the next preceding fiscal or calendar year:
"Six (6%) per centum of the amount of the net income as herein
provided.
"(b) The State of Oklahoma is hereby adopting method numbered
(4), authorized by Section 5219, U. S. Revised Statutes, as amended.
The tax imposed by this Section shall be exclusive and in lieu of all
taxes imposed by the State of Oklahoma, or any subdivision thereof,
on the property of any association liable to tax hereunder; provided,
that nothing in this Section shall be construed to exempt the real
property of national banking associations from taxation to the same
extent, according to its value, as other real property is taxed."

215234°-40-

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

rate of six per centum. Section 17 provides for a similar
tax upon state banks and Morris Plan Companies.
The net income used as the measure of the tax under
8 § 16 and 17 is determined by subtracting from gross income, as defined in § 18, certain deductions allowed by
,N9. Section 18 defines gross income for the purposes of
"National banking associations, state banks, trust companies and other financial corporations," § 8 (c). It
specifically includes in gross income "interest upon the
obligations of the United States, or its possessions, or
upon securities issued under the authority of an Act of
Congress, the income from which is tax free."
All other types of corporations are taxed at the flat
rate of six per centum upon the net income allocable to
business transacted within the state, § 6. Net income
for this purpose is determined by making certain specified
deductions from gross income, §§ 7, 9, which is defined
expressly so as to exclude interest on tax-immune federal
securities, § 8 (b) (4).
The appellee Oklahoma Tax Commission, in assessing
appellant's tax for the year 1936 under § 16, included in
gross income the dividends received by appellant on stock
owned by it in a federal reserve bank and the interest
received on bonds and notes issued pursuant to acts of
Congress declaring the income from such securities tax
exempt.' The present suit was brought by appellant to
recover that portion of the tax, paid under protest, which
resulted from including such dividends and interest in
the computation.
2

The stipulation of facts shows that the interest used in the compu-

tation of the tax was derived from the following types of securities:
U. S. Treasury Notes; U. S. Treasury Bonds; Bonds of the Federal
Farm Loan Act; Joint Stock Land Bank Bonds; Home Owners' Loan
Corporation Bonds; and Federal Land Bank Bonds.

TRADESMENS BANK v. TAX COMM'N.
560

563

Opinion of the Court.

R. S. 5219, 12 U. S. C. § 548, copied in the margin,'
authorizes four alternative methods whereby a state may
impose a tax on national banking associations located
within its limits. Method numbered (4) provides for
a tax on such associations "according to, or measured by"
"the entire net income received from all sources" subject only to certain restrictions as to the rate. This
method was added to the three previously authorized
under R. S. 5219 by an amendment of March 25, 1926, c.
88, 44 Stat. 223. The plain meaning of the amendment
is confirmed by its legislative history showing beyond
doubt that Congress intended to authorize a franchise
'"The legislature of each State may determine and direct, subject to
the provisions of ihis section, the manner and place of taxing all the
shares of national banking associations located within its limits. The
several States may (1) tax said shares, or (2) include dividends derived therefrom in the taxable income of an owner or holder thereof,
or (3) tax such associations on their net income, or (4) according to
or measured by their net income, provided the following conditions
are complied with:
"1. (a) The imposition by any State of any one of the above four
forms of taxation shall be in lieu of the others, except as hereinafter
provided in subdivision (c) of this clause.
"(c) In case of a tax on or according to or measured by the net
income of an association, the taxing State may, except in case of a tax
on net income, include the entire net income received from all sources,
but the rate shall not be higher than the rate assessed upon other
financial corporations nor higher than the highest of the rates assessed
by the taxing State upon mercantile, manufacturing, and business corporations doing business within its limits:
"3. Nothing herein shall be construed to exempt the real property
of associations from taxation in any State or in any subdivision
thereof, to the same extent, according to its value, as other real property is taxed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

tax measured by net income including interest on taximmune federal securities.4
Oklahoma in the 1935 act expressly followed and
adopted the method thus authorized in the amendment.
See First National Bank v. Oklahoma Tax Commission,
185 Okla. 98; 90 P. 2d 438. Subsection (b) of § 16 expressly declares that the state thereby adopts method
numbered (4) authorized by R. S. 5219, 12 U. S. C. § 548.
The power of Congress to authorize a state to impose
a tax on the franchise of a national banking association
can not now be doubted. Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall.
573. C o m p a r e Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction
Finance Corp., 306 U. S. 381, 389; Helvering v. Gerhardt,
304 U. S. 405, 411-412n; Federal Land Bank v. Priddy,
295 U. S. 229, 234-235. Any immunity attaching to the
franchise by virtue of R. S. 5219 as it read prior to the
1926 amendment, compare Pittman v. Home Owners'
Loan Corp., 308 U. S. 21, could be withdrawn by Congress
and the franchise subjected to state taxing power, just
as national bank shares were so subjected by the Act of
June 3, 1864. Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573. See
Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103;
Peoples National Bank v. Board of Equalization, 260
U. S. 702.
The power of a state to levy a tax on a legitimate subject, such as a franchise, measured by net assets or net
income including tax-exempt federal instrumentalities or
their income is likewise well settled. Society for Savings
v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 611; Home Insurance Co. v. New York,
134 U. S. 594; Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282
U. S. 379. Thus state laws taxing the shareholders of
national banks in accordance with R. S. 5219 on the full
net value of their shares, although the banks owned tax'67 Cong. Rec. 5760-5762, 5822-5823, 6082-6089.

TRADESMENS BANK v. TAX COMM'N.
560

565

Opinion of the Court.

exempt federal securities, have been consistently upheld.
Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103;
Peoples National Bank v. Board of Equlization, 260
U. S. 702; Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573. The rule
that a tax upon a legitimate subject, measured by net
income, including that from tax-immune federal instrumentalities, is not an infringement of the immunity, was
affirmed in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 147,
165, and followed in Educational Films Corp. v. Ward,
282 U. S. 379. Compare Pacific Co. v. Johnson, 285 U. S.
480, 490. The tax-immunity conferred on the securities
owned by appellant has not been shown to be any greater
in extent than that conferred on the federal securities
included in the measure of the taxes sustained in the
cited cases.
Sections 16 and 17 of the 1933 act were for present
purposes identical with the corresponding sections of the
1935 act, but § 18 of the prior act contained a provision
expressly excluding from gross income the interest on
tax-immune federal securities.
Appellant contends that the act of 1935, by expressly
including in the measure of the tax the interest on federal securities which before had been expressly excluded
from the measure, must be regarded not as a valid franchise tax but as an unconstitutional levy on the tax-immune income itself. In support of its position, its main
reliance is placed upon our decision in Macallen v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620.
A similar contention was urged against the California
franchise tax measured by net income, including taxexempt income on state bonds, which was upheld in Pacific Co. v. Johnson, 285 U. S. 480. In rejecting the claim,
the holding in the Macallen case was referred to as follows (285 U. S. at 494): "There the Commonwealth,
which had long imposed a tax on corporate franchises
measured by taxable income of the corporation, amended

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

its statutes so as to add the income from tax-exempt
bonds of the federal government to the measure of the
tax. It was held that this change of taxation policy, embodied in the statute and 'adopted as though it had been
so declared in precise words for the very purpose of subjecting these securities pro tanto to the burden of the
tax,' was invalid. Thus the legislative abandonment of a
policy which had previously discriminated in favor of
tax-exempt securities was treated as a discrimination
against them, and the tax, although in fact non-discriminatory, was condemned as analogous to the discriminatory tax held invalid in the Miller case [Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713]." See also Educational Films
Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379, 392-393.
It cannot be said that the Oklahoma tax in question
here was aimed at tax-exempt federal securities in the
manner thus disclosed and condemned in the Macallen
case. The history of the Oklahoma legislation on this
subject discloses only that it sought to change its policy
pursuant to the express authorization conferred by R. S.
5219. It has effected its purpose by including within the
measure of its franchise tax on national banks the entire
net income without respect to source and without discrimination against tax-exempt federal securities. See
First National Bank v. Oklahoma Tax Commission, 185
Okla. 98; 90 P. 2d 438.
We do not now decide just what circumstances, if any,
would bring a situation within the precise scope of the
Macallen case, assuming that case still has vitality. It is
sufficient to hold, as we do, that the statute in the instant
case meets the test stated in Pacific Co. v. Johnson, viz:
"Since the mere intent of the legislature to do that which
the Constitution permits cannot deprive legislation of its
constitutional validity, . . . the present act must be
judged by its operation rather than by the motives which
inspired it. As it operates to measure the tax on the cor-

TRADESMENS BANK v. TAX COMM'N.
560

567

Opinion of the Court.

porate franchise by the entire net income of the corporation, without any discrimination between income which
is exempt and that which is not, there is no infringement
of any constitutional immunity."
Appellant finally contends that the tax here in question
violates the restriction in R. S. 5219 that "the rate shall
not be higher than . . . the highest of the rates . . .
assessed upon' mercantile, manufacturing, and business
corporations doing business" within the state.'
A consideration of the course of judicial decision on
R. S. 5219 and its predecessors can leave no doubt that
the various restrictions it places on the permitted methods
of taxation are designed to prohibit only those systems of
state taxation which discriminate in practical operation
against national banking associations or their shareholders
as a class. Compare First National Bank v. Hartford,
273 U. S. 548; Amoskeag Savings Bank v. Purdy, 231 U. S.
373; Covington v. First National Bank, 198 U. S. 100;
Lionberger v. Rouse, 9 Wall. 468. Thus it is not a valid
objection to a tax on national bank shares that other
moneyed capital in the state or shares of state banks are
taxed at a different rate or assessed by a different method
unless it appears that the difference in treatment results
in fact in a discrimination unfavorable to the holders
of the shares of national banks. Amoskecg Savings
Bank v. Purdy, 231 U. S. 373; Covington v. First National
Bank, 198 U. S. 100.6 We think the same purpose to prevent actual discrimination but to allow the states considerable freedom in working out an equitable tax system
No claim is made that state financial institutions receive more
favorable treatment than national banking associations. Sections 17,
18 and 8 (c) show that the tax imposed on such state institutions is
the equivalent of the tax levied by § 16 on national banks.
'See also Davenport Bank v. Davenport Board of Equalization, 123
U. S. 83; Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138; Des Moines
v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

is discernable in the particular restriction upon which
appellant relies.
The resolution of the issue raised by appellant thus
turns upon an examination of the whole tax structure
of the state. Counsel have stipulated that six thousand
business and mercantile corporations, in addition to paying the income tax imposed by § 6 on six per centum of
their net income, filed a corporation license tax return
for the year 1936 and paid a tax based on one dollar per
one thousand dollars of the value of the capital stock
employed within the state, and that the Government
bonds held by each were included as capital in the measure of the franchise tax. They further stipulated that
only thirty-seven of these six thousand corporations
owned Government bonds and that, in the case of all
but three, the franchise taxes paid exceeded the additional amounts which would have been due under the
income tax imposed by § 6 had their gross income, contrary to the fact, included the interest derived from the
bonds. In addition to the foregoing taxes, so it is stipulated, each of these corporations paid an ad valorem tax
on its moneyed capital.
This brief survey suffices to show that, considering all
the taxes imposed upon business and mercantile corporations doing bu'siness in the state, the scheme of taxation
adopted by Oklahoma does not discriminate against national banking associations. Discrimination is not shown
merely because a few individual corporations, out of a
class of several thousand which ordinarily bear the same
or a heavier tax burden, may sustain a lighter tax than
that imposed on national banking associations. Compare Amoskeag Savings Bank v. Purdy, 231 U. S. 373, at
393; Lionberger v. Rouse, 9 Wall. 468. Judged in the
light of the established policy of Congress with respect
to this subject, the 1935 Oklahoma taxing statute cannot
be held to violate the provisions of R. S. 5219.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
560

Counsel for Parties.

The other contentions advanced by appellant have been
considered and found to be without substance.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
WISCONSIN, MINNESOTA, OHIO AND PENNSYLVANIA v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY DISTRICT OF CHICAGO.
MICHIGAN v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY

DISTRICT OF CHICAGO

ET AL.

NEW YORK v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY.

DISTRICT OF CHICAGO
Nos. 2, 3 and 4, Original.

ET AL.

Argued March 25, 26, 1940.-Decided
April 3, 1940.

Special Master appointed to make summary inquiry and speedy
report as to condition of the Illinois Waterway due to the introduction of untreated sewage, the effect upon the health of inhabitants of communities bordering the Waterway, and the
remedial or ameliorating measures available to the State of Illinois
without an increase in diversion of water from Lake Michigan.
P. 571.

Upon petition of the State of Illinois for a temporary
modification of the decree restricting diversion of water
of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence system or watershed
through the Chicago Drainage Canal, and the return of
the plaintiff States in response to a rule to show cause.
See also, order on p. 636, post.
Messrs. John E. Cassidy, Attorney General of Illinois,
and Montgomery S. Winning, for the State of Illinois,
defendant.
Mr. Herbert H. Naujoks for the State of Wisconsin
et al.; Mr. Timothy F. Cohan, Assistant Attorney Gen-

