590

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioners.

309 U. S.

YONKERS v. DOWNEY, RECEIVER.*
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 542. Argued February 29, 1940.-Decided April 22, 1940
1. Concurrent findings of two lower courts accepted here, to the
effect that withdrawals of deposits from a national bank were
made when there was reason to believe that the bank would be
unable to repay its depositors in due course, and with intent to
prefer. P. 595.
2. National banks have no implied power to pledge assets as security
for deposits. P. 595.
3. Rescission by a national bank of an unauthorized pledge securing
deposits is not conditioned upon return of the amounts deposited.
P. 595.
4. The Act of June 25, 1930, permits national banking associations to
give security for deposits of public money of a State or any political subdivision thereof "of the same kind as is authorized by law
of the State in which such an association is located in the case
of other banking institutions in the State." Held, that such pledges
are not "authorized" by the law of a State (New York) which
forbids them as ultra vires, though it conditions rescission upon repayment of deposits made in reliance upon them. P. 597.
106 F. 2d 69, affirmed.

CETIORARI, 308 U. S. 547, to review the affirmance of recoveries by a receiver of a national bank of deposits withdrawn from it while insolvent. The case was tried to the
court without a jury.

23 F. Supp. 1018.

Messrs. Leonard G. McAneny and E. J. Dimock, with
whom Mr. J. Donald Rawlings was on the brief, for
petitioners.
*Together

with No. 543, Condon, Mayor, et al. v. Downey, Re-

ceiver; No. 544, Condon, Mayor, et al. v. Downey, Receiver; and
No. 545, Yonkers, Trustee, v. Downey, Receiver, also on writs of
certiorari, 308 U. S. 547, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

YONKERS v. DOWNEY.
590

Argument for Petitioners.

Even though the Bank was insolvent, the City was
entitled to hold the security until payment of its deposits in full. Since that is just what the City did, the
deposits can not be recovered from it.
In the absence of a federal statute on the effect of an
ultra vires pledge by a national bank, that effect would
be ascertained by applying the rule that questions of
ultra ires are governed by the law of incorporation and
questions of the effect of the ultra vires acts, by the law
of the State where the acts are done. Restatement of
the Law of Conflict of Laws, ยง 166, subdivision c. of the
comment.
The effect of the silence of the National Bank Act on
the subject would be, therefore, that national banks and
state banks would compete on an equal footing in so far
as the effect of ultra vires acts was concerned. The prescribing of a special statutory rule for the national banks
would be a departure from the traditional congressional
policy toward placing the national banks on equality
with the state banks. Lewis v. Fidelity & Deposit Co.,
292 U. S. 559, 564.
The state law always governs the transactions of national banks except where in conflict with some paramount federal law. National Bank v. Commonwealth,
9 Wall. 353, 362; Lewis v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 292
U. S. 559, 564. Thus, if the National Bank Act is to
override the law of New York as' to the consequences of
an ultra vires pledge, it must not only indicate a general
policy of Congress that an ultra vires act of a national
bank shall be without force or effect but also indicate that
Congress has actually supplanted the state law on the
subject. Nothing in the National Bank Act indicates
either of those things. Therefore, the consequences of
an ultra vires act of a national bank are determined by
the law of the State where it occurs. Security National
Bank v. St. Croix Power Co., 117 Wis. 211.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Respondent.

309 U. S.

The lien on the security arose when the security was
taken, long before insolvency, and such a lien, although
created by state law, is effective as applied to national
banks. Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499, 510.
The New York law as to the consequences of the pledge
was incorporated in the National Bank Act by reference
in the Act of June 25, 1930.
Corporations have power to perform certain acts which
are outside of their powers. First National Bank v. Mott
Iron Works, 258 U. S. 240; Pullman's Palace-CarCo. v.
Central TransportationCo., 171 U. S. 138; State Bank
of Commerce v. Stone, 261 N. Y. 175. In other words, a
corporation has de facto powers to accept the liabilities
and rights thrust upon it by the local law as consequences
of the attempted exercise of disapproved powers. Every
time a court of the State of incorporation holds a corporation for the consequences of an ultra vires act, it holds
that the corporation is "authorized" to accept them. The
court below was wrong in limiting the expression "authorized security" to security authorized de jure.
Any hesitation that one may have about applying the
word "authorized" to de facto powers of a corporation
arises from our habitual association of authorization with
the legislature. Since these powers to accept the consequences of ultra vires acts are usually given by judicial
decision, they do not generally fit into the class of powers
authorized by the legislature. Here, however, by hypothesis, Congress has treated these powers to accept the
consequences of ultra vires acts as the subject of legislative action so that the word "authorized" is a natural
one for Congress to apply to them.
The deposits paid out upon checks of the City before
the Comptroller took over the Bank can not be recovered
by the receiver even if the security is unenforceable.
Mr. George P. Barse, with whom Messrs. Benjamin W.
Moore, Milton L. Romm, John F. Anderson, and Lee Roy
Stover were on the brief, for respondent.

YONKERS v. DOWNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

590

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
By these companion suits, begun during 1936, the Receiver of The First National Bank and Trust Company
of Yonkers ("The Bank"), seeks to recover fifty per
centum of deposits withdrawn by petitioners from the
association while insolvent. Thus, it is said, they obtained unlawful preferences within the meaning of the
National Banking Act.' From corporate assets, general
creditors have been paid dividends amounting to fifty per
centum of their claims-forty, December, 1933; ten,
November, 1937.
'Title 12 U. S. C.-See. 91. "All transfers of the notes, bonds, bills of exchange, or
other evidences of debt owing to any national banking association,
or of deposits to its credit; all assignments of mortgages, sureties
on real estate, or of judgments or decrees in its favor; all deposits
of money, bullion, or other valuable thing for its use, or for the use
of any of its shareholders or creditors; and all payments of money
to either, made after the commission of an act of insolvency, or in
contemplation thereof, made with a view to prevent the application
of its assets in the manner prescribed by this chapter, or with a view
to the preference of one creditor to another, except in payment of
its circulating notes, shall be utterly null and void; and no attachment, injunction, or execution, shall be issued against such association
or its property before final judgment in any suit, action, or proceeding,
in any State, county, or municipal court." (R. S. ยง 5242.)
Sec. 194. "From time to time, after full provision has been first
made for refunding to the United States any deficiency in redeeming
the notes of such association, the comptroller shall make a ratable
dividend of the money so paid over to him by such receiver on all
such claims as may have been proved to his satisfaction or adjudicated
in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, as the proceeds of the
assets of such association are paid over to him, shall make further
dividends on all claims previously proved or adjudicated; and the
remainder of the proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to the shareholders of such association, or their legal representatives, in proportion to the stock by them respectively held." (R. S. ยง 5236.)
215234*--40-

38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

The Bank was located in New York. In each cause
the points of law and fact are substantially alike. It
will suffice to consider them as presented by the Record
in No. 542.
Petitioner's deposits with The Bank, March 4, 1933,
amounted to $277,000. To secure this and other smaller
public ones, bonds of the association totalling $535,000
were in pledge.
The Governor of New York proclaimed Saturday,
March 4th and Monday, March 6th, 1933, bank holidays.
Later the President and the Governor extended such holidays through March 9th. The Bank was not opened for
unrestricted business after March 3rd. A Conservator,
appointed March 20th, remained in control until January
23, 1934, when a Receiver took charge.
Between March 9th and 20th, 1933, petitioner withdrew deposits amounting to $89,000; between March
20th and 28th, $67,000. On the latter day, under direction of the Conservator, petitioner's remaining deposits
were paid and The Bank retook the pledged bonds.
A jury having been waived the cause was tried to the
court upon pleadings and evidence. Among other things
it foundThe pledge of assets by The Bank to secure the
deposits was ultra vires and unlawful.
The Bank was insolvent March 6th, 1933, and as
of that day the rights of creditors became fixed.
The payments of deposits to petitioner were not
allowed by any Presidential Proclamation or Executive Order. They were made voluntarily under mistake of law by an officer of the United States and
are recoverable. Also they were made with intent to
give petitioner preference over other creditors.
No statute of New York confers upon state banks
general power to pledge assets to secure deposits.
They have no such power under the common law of
New York.

YONKERS v. DOWNEY.
590

Opinion of the Court.

Judgment went for the Receiver for fifty per centum
of the amounts withdrawn by the petitioner after March
9, 1933, with interest, etc.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this action.
106 F. 2d 69. It held all withdrawals after March 9th
occurred when the facts indicated The Bank would be
unable to pay depositors in due course and that adequate
evidence supported the trial court's findings of an intent
to prefer. We find no reason to disregard these findings
by two courts and accept them as correct.
The Circuit Court of Appeals further held national
banks have no implied power to pledge assets to secure
deposits; that here The Bank was not empowered so
to do by the Act June 25, 1930 2; that the pledge might
'Act June 25, 1930, c. 604, 46 Stat. 809; 12 U. S. C., ยง 90"All national banking associations, designated for that purpose by
the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be depositaries of public money,
under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary; and
they may also be employed as financial agents of the Government;
and they shall perform all such reasonable duties, as depositaries of
public money and financial agents of the Government, as may be required of them. The Secretary of the Treasury shall require the
associations thus designated to give satisfactory security, by the
deposit of United States bonds and otherwise, for the safekeeping
and prompt payment of the public money deposited with them, and
for the faithful performance of their duties as financial agents of

the Government: Provided, That the Secretary shall, on or before
the 1st of January of each year, make a public statement of the
securities required during that year for such deposits. And every
association so designated as receiver or depositary of the public money
shall take and receive at par all of the national currency bills, by
whatever association issued, which have been paid into the Government for internal revenue, or for loans or stocks: Provided, That the
Secretary of the Treasury shall distribute the deposits herein provided for, as far as practicable, equitably between the different States
and sections.
"Any association may, upon the deposit with it of public money
of a State or any political subdivision thereof, give security for the

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

be rescinded without return by the Receiver of the sums
withdrawn. With these conclusions we agree.
Unless empowered by the Act June 25, 1930 or concerning federal funds (not here claimed) as in Inland
Waterways Corp. v. Young, ante, p. 517, national banks
may not secure deposits by pledge of assets.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorfj, 291 U. S. 245,
253-255, and Marion v. Sneeden, 291 U. S. 262, authoritatively interpreted the National Banking Act and approved the view that under this, a national bank possesses no inherent power to secure deposits, public or
private, by pledging assets, and that such a pledge is both
ultra vires and contrary to public policy. "The measure
of their powers is the statutory grant; and powers not
conferred by Congress are denied." Also, that in case
of insolvency, assets so pledged, may be reclaimed without
payment of the deposits. "To permit the pledge would
be inconsistent with many provisions of the National
Bank Act which are designed to ensure, in case of disaster, uniformity in the treatment of depositors and a
ratable distribution of assets." The result in these
causes was not influenced by consideration of local law.
We cannot accept the suggestion of counsel for petitioner that the cited opinions merely declare a pledge of
assets ultra vires and leave the consequences to be determined by the law of the state where it occurs. This
view is not in harmony with the language of the opinions
nor with the general purposes of the National Banking Act
there pointed out.
Under the common law as interpreted in New York,
pledge of securities by a state bank to secure deposits is
"contrary to law and beyond the power and authority
safekeeping and prompt payment of the money so deposited, of the
same kind as is authorized by the law of the State in which such
association is located in the case of other banking institutions in the
State."

YONKERS v. DOWNEY.
590

Opinion of the Court.

vested in the officers." Although forbidden, such a pledge
will not be set aside unless deposits made in reliance upon
it are first repaid. State Bank of Commerce v. Stone, 261
N. Y. 175, 187-188;. 184 N. E. 750; City of Mount Vernon
v. Mount Vernon Trust Co., 270 N. Y. 400, 406; 1 N. E.
2d 825.
The Act of June 25, 1930 permits national banks to give
security for public deposits "of the same kind as is authorized by the law of the State in which such association is
located in the case of other banking institutions in the
State." Counsel maintain that within the fair intendment of this, state banks in New York are "authorized" to
pledge bonds to secure public deposits. They rely upon
the rulings of the local courts, in the causes last cited, concerning conditions which must be met before an ultra vires
act will be. set aside.
They submit that corporations have capacity to accept
the result of their actions. "That the capacity to accept
the consequences of an ultra vires act is itself a power."
Further, that "'giving' a power is but another word for
'authorizing' its exercise." Hence, the argument seems
to run, as a state bank may hold the fruit of a pledge until
return of the thing pledged, therefore, it is "authorized by
law" to make a pledge thus conditioned.
In this procession., obviously, different meanings are
attributed to the word "power" and it is confused with
"capacity" and "authority." In one sense, every corporation has "power" to do wrong, also "capacity" to suffer the
consequences of wrong-doing. But no corporation has
authority to violate an inhibition or go beyond the limits
of its charter. Authorization to do a forbidden thing cannot be inferred from capacity to accept the prescribed consequences. The law forbade local institutions to make
pledges such as the one here in question.
The challenged judgments must be
Affirmed.

