Oct. 1874.]

ATCHISON V.

PETERSON.

Syllabus.

But the cavity must be made smaller than the pencil and
so constructed as to encompass its sides and be held thereon
by the inherent elasticity of the rubber. This adds nothing
to the patentable character of the invention. Everybody
knew, when the patent was applied for; that if a solid substance was inserted into a cavity in a piece of rubber smaller
than itself, the rubber would cling to it. The small opening
in the piece of rubber not limited in form or shape, was not
patentable, neither was the elasticity'of the rubber. What,
therefore, is left for this patentee but the idea that if a pencil
is inse'ted into a cavity in a piece of rubber smaller than
itself the rubber will attach itself to the pencil, and wil"n so
attached become convenient for use as an eraser?
An idea of itself is not patentable, but a new device by
which it may be made practically useful is. The idea of
this patentee was a good one, but his device to give it effect,
though useful, was not new. Consequently he took nothing
by his patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

ATCHISON V. PETERSON.

1. On the mineral lands of the public domain in the Pacific States and Territories, the doctrines of the common law, declaratory of the rights of
riparian proprietors respecting the use of running waters, are inapplicable or applicable only in a very limited extent to the necessities of
miners, and inadequatd to their protection; there prior appropriation
gives the better right to running waters to the -ext~nt, in quantity and
quaility, necessary ?or the uses to which the water is applied.
2. What diminution of quantity, or deterioration in quality, will constitute
an invasion of the rights of the first appropriator will depend upon the
special circumstances of each case; and in controversies between him
and parties subsequently claiming the water, the question- for determination is whetfier his use and enjoyment of the water to the extent of
the original appropriation have been impaired by the -acts of the other
parties.

ATCHISON V. PETERSON.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.
8. Whether, upon a petition or bill asserting that the prior rights of the
first appropriator have been invaded, a court of equity will interfere to

restrain the acts of the party complained of, will depend upon the character anl extent of the injury alleged, whether it be irremediable in its
nature, whether an action at law would afford adequate remedy, whether

the parties are able to respond for the damages resulting from the'injury, and other considerations which ordinarily govern a court of equity
in the exercise of its preventive process of injunction.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Mon-

tana.
Atchison and others filed a bill in the District Court of
the Territory just named, for an injunction to restrain Peterson and others from carrying on certain mining operations on a creek in the county of Clark and Lewis, in the
said Territory, known as the Ten-Mile Creek. The bill
alleged that the water, diverted by the complainants from
the stream for mining purposes, was deteriorated in quality
and value. It appeared from the evidence that the complainants were the owners of two ditches or canals, known
respectively as the Helena water-ditch and the Yaw-Yaw
ditch, by which the creek mentioned was tapped and the
water diverted and conveyed'a distance of about eighteen
miles to certain mining districts, known as the Last Chance
and, Dry Gulches, and there sold to miners. The parties
through whom the complainants derived their interests, asserted a claim to the waters of the creek in November, 1864,
and during that year commenc.ed the construction of the
ditches and continued work~thereon until August, 1866.
The work was then suspended, for want of means by the
parties to continue'it, until the following year, when it was
resumed, and in 1867 the ditches were completed and put
into operation. Their cost was $117,000.
Whilst this work was progressing, and in the summer of
1865, there was some mining on the Ten-Mile Creek about
fifteen miles above the point where the ditches of the plaintiffs tap the stream, but there was no continued mining at
that place until 1867. From that peri6d until the present
time the defendants had been working and were still working mining ground situated at that point on the creek. In

Oct. 1874.]

OTCHISON

V. -PETERSON.

Statement of the case.

that -work they in some places washed down the earth from
the siae of the hills bordering on the stream; in other places
they excavated the earth and threw such portions as were
supposed to contain gold into sluices upon which the water
was tui'ned. The earth from the washing on the hillsides
and friom the sluices, designated in the vocabulaiy of miners
as "tailings," and the water mixed with it was carried into
the creek and affected its whole current, which at that point
has a volume of only about two hundred inches, according
to the measurement of -miners, filling the water with mud,
sand, and sediment, and impairing its value at that point for
further mining.
Tie bill alleged that the "tailings" thus thrown into the
current werq carried down the stream into the ditches of the
complainants, thereby 6bstructing the flow of the water
through the ditches, and injuring it in quality and value;
and they insisted that as prior appropriators of the waters
of the stream, they were entitled to its use without such
deterioration; and for the protection of their rights, they
asked an injunction to restrain the defendants' fr6m the
further commission of the alleged grievances.
The evidence showed that the volume of water in the
creek, which at the point where the defendants worked their
mining clainis was, as above said,.Qnly about two hundred
inches, according to the measurement of miners, was increased at the point where the ditches of the complaihants
tapped the creek, by intervening tributary streams of clear
watet', to about fifteen hundrdd inches. Of this water the
Helena ditch diverted about five hundred inches, and took
it about eighteen miles; to the places wher6 it was sold to
miners. The water as it .ntered the ditch was in some degree muddied and affected with sand, and the evidence was
conflicting as to the influence of the mud and sand upon
the value of the water. The great preponderance Of the
evidence, however, was tothe efect that the injury in quality
from this cause was so slight as not, in any material extent,
ioimhpir the value of the water-for mining nor render it less
salable to the miners at the places where it was carried. A

ATCHISON V. PETERSON.

ES LP.

Ct.

.Opinion of the court.

majority of the witnesses testified that it was first-class water
for mining purposes, and some of them that it was good
water even for domestic uses.
Persons who had cleaned out the Helena ditch and examined it, testified that there were no tailings or sediment of
consequence in it, and that the most that there was ran into
the ditch from the hillsides along the ditch and stream. A
preponderance of the evidence also showed that no extra
labor was required on the ditch on account of the muddy
character of the water, or at most only the additional labor
of one person for a few minutes each day, and that a sandgate was necessary at the head of the ditch whether or not
there was mining above on the stream.
With respect to the water diverted by the Yaw-Yaw ditch,
it was shown that its deterioration, so far as the deterioration
exceeded that of the water in the Helena ditdh, was caused
by sand and sediment brought by a tributary which entered
the creek below the head of the Helena ditch.
The mining claims of the defendants were shown to be
worth from $15,000 to $20,000 each, and it appeared that the
defendants were responsible and capable of answering for
any damages the complainants might sustain.
The District Court denied the injunction, and the Supreme
Court of the Territory-affirmed its decree. From the latter
court an appeal was taken to this court.
Mr. Robert. Leech, for the appellants; Mr. G. G. S mes,
contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
By the custom which Bas obtained among miners in the
Pacific States and Territories, where mining for the precious
metals is had on the public lands of the United States, the
first appropriator of mines, whether in placers, veins, or
lodes, or of waters in the streams on such lands for mining
purposes, is held to have a better right than others to work
the mines or use the waters. The first appropriator who
subjects the property to use, or takes the necessary steps for

Oct. 1874.]

V. PETERSON.
ATCHISON
]
Opinion of the court.

that purpose, is regarded, except as against the government,
as the soarce of title in all controversies relating to the
property. As respectsw the use of water for mining purposes,'the doctrines of the common law declaratory of the
rights of riparian owners were, at an early day, after the
discovery of gold, found to be inapplicable or applicable
only in a very limited extent to the necessities of miners,
and inadequate to-their protection. By the common law the
riparian owner'on a stream not navigable, takes the land to
the centre of the stream, and such owner has the right to the
use of the water flowing over the land as an incident to his
estate. And as all'such owners on the same stream have
an equality of right to the-use of the water, as it naturally
flows, in.
quality, and without diminution in quantity, except
so far as such diminution may be created by a reasonable
use of the water forcertain domestic, agricultural, or manufacturing purposes, there could not be, according to that
law, any such diversion or use of the water by one owner as
would work material detriment to any other owner below
him. Nor could the water by one owner be so retarded in
its flow as to be thrown back to the inijury of another owner
above him. "It is wholly immaterial," . says Mr. Justice
Story, in Tyler v. Willbison,* "whether the party be a proprietor above or below in the course of the river; the right
being common to all the proprietors on .the river, no one
has a right to diminish the quantity which will, according
to the .natural current, flow to the proprietor below, or to
throw it back upon a proprietor above. This is the necesSsary result of the perfect equality of right among all the
,proprietors of thlat which is common to all." "Every.proprietor of lands on the binks of a river," says Kent, "has
naturally an equal right to the use of the waterwhich flows
in the stream adjacent to his lands, as it was wont to run
(currere solebat) without diminution or alteration. No proprietor has a right to use the water to the prejudice of other
proprietors above. or below him, unless he has a prior right
*4 Mason, 879.

512

ATCHISON V. PETERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to divert it, or a title to some exclusive enjoyment. He has
1no property in the water itself, but a simple usufiuct while
it passes along. Aqua eirril el debet eurrere ut currere solebat.
Though he may use the watef- while it runs over his land as
au incident to the land,,he cannot unreasonably detain it or
give it another direction, and he must return, it to its ordinary channel when it leaves his estate. Withbout the consent of the ,idjoinig proprietors he cannot divert or diminish the quantity of the water which would otherwise descend
to the proprietors below, nor throw the water back upon, the
proprietors above without a grant or an uninterrupted enjoyment of twenty years, which is evidence of it. This is
the clear and settled doctrine on the subject, aid all the
'difficulty which arises consists in the application."*
This equality of, right among all the proprietors on the
same stream would have been incompatible with any extended diversion of the water by one proprietor, and its conveyance for mining purposes to points from which it could
not be i'estored to the stream. But the government being
the solb proprietor of all the public lands, whether bordering.on streams or otherwise, ther6 was no occasion for the
application of the commot--law doctrine of riparian proprietorship with respect to the waters of those streams. The
government, by its silent acquiescence, assented to the general occupation of the public lands for mining, and, to encourage their free and unlimited use for 'that purpose,
reserved such lands as were mineral from sale and the acquisition of title by settlement. And he who first connect§
his own labor with property thus situated and open to general exploration, 'does, in natural justice, acquire a better
,right to its use and-enjoyment than others who have not given
such ll Sr. So the miners on the public' lands throughout
the Pacific, States and Territories by their customs, usages,,
and regulations everywhere recognized the inherent justice
of this pri'nciple; and the principle itself was at an early
,period recognized by legislation and enforced by the courts
* 8 Kent's Commentaries, 439, side paging.

0e '1874.]

ATCHISON V. PETERSON.
Opinion of the court.

in those-States and Territories. In I'winv. Phillips,* a case
decided by the Supreme Court of California in January,
1855, this subject was considered. After stating that a system of rules had been permitted to grow up with respect to
mining ou "the public landls 'by the voluntary action and
assent of the population, whose free and unrestrained occupation of the mineral-region had been tacitly assented to
by the Federal government, and heartily encouraged by the
expressed legislative policy of the State, the court said: "If
there are, as must be admitted, many things connected with
this system which are crude and undigested, and subject to
fluctugtion and dispute, there are still some Which a universal sense of necessity and propriety have so firmly fxed as
that they have come to be looked upon as having the force
and effect of res a..djudicata. Among these the most important are the rights of.miners to be protected in their selebted
localities, and the rights of those who, by prio- appropriation, have taken the waters 'from their natu'al bed's, and-by.
costly artificial works have. conducted them for miles over
m6untains and ravines to supply: he necessities of gold diggers, and without which the most important interests of the
mineral iegion would remain -without development. So
fully recognized have become these rigbtsithat without any
specific legislation conferring or confirming them,- they are
alluded to and spoken of in-various acts of .tle legislature
in the same manner as if they were riglits which bad been
vested hy the most distinct expression of. the will of the
law-makers."
This doctrine of kight-by~prior appropriation, was recognized by the legislation of Congress in 1866. The act granting the right of way to ditch and canal owners over -the
public lands, and for other purposes, passed. on the 26th of
July of that year, in its ninth section declares "that whenever by priority of possession,.rights td the -use of water
for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or other purposes,
have vested and accrued, and the. same are recognized and
*

yoL XX.

5California, 140,
88

ATCHISON V. PETERSON.[

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

acknowledged by -the local customs, laws, and decisions of
courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall
be maintained and protected in the same."*
The right to water by prior appropriation, thus recognized
and established as the law of miners on the mineral lands of
the public domain, is limited in every case, in quantity and
quality, by the uses for which lie appropriation is made. A
different use of the water subsequently does not affect the
right; that'is subject to the same limitations, whatever the
use. The appropriation does not confer such an absolute
right to the body of the water diverted that the owner
can allow it, after its diversion, to run to waste and prevent
others from using it for mining or other legitimate purposes;
nor does it confer such a right that he can insist upon the
flow of the water without deterioration in quality, where
such deterioration does not defeat nor impair the uses to
which the water is applied.
Such was the purport of the ruling of the Supreme Court
of California in Butte Canal and.Ditch Company v. Vaughn,t
where it was held that the first appropriator had only the
right to insist that the water should be subject to his use
and enjoyment to the extent of his original appropriation,
and that its quality should not be impaired so as to defeat
the purpose of that appropriation. To this extent, said the
court, his rights go and no farther; and that in subordination to them subsequent appropriators may use the channel
and waters of the stream, and mingle with its waters other
waters, and divert them as often as they choose; that whilst
enjoying his original rights the first appropriator had no
cause of complaint. Il the subsequent case of Ortman v.
Dixon,t the same court held to the same purport, that the
measure of the right of the first appropriator of the water
as to extent follows the nature of the appropriation or the
uses for which it is taken.
What dimiuution of quantity, or deterioration in quality,
t 11 .California, 143.
: 13 California, 83; see also t4obdell v. Simpson, 2 Nevada, 274.

* 14 Stat at Large, 253.

Oct. 1874.]

ATCHISON V. PETERSON.
Opinion of the court.

will constitute an invasion of the rights of the first appropriator will depend upon the special circumstances of each
case, considered with reference to the uses to which .the
water is applied-. A slight deterioration in quality might
render the water unfit'for drink or domestic purposes, whilst
it would not sensibly imp'air its value for mining or irrigation. In all controversies, therefore. between him and parties subsequently claiming the water, the question fbr determinatiou is necessarily whether his use and enjoyment of
the water to the extent of his original appropriation have
been. impaired by the acts of the defendant.* But whether,
upon a petition or bill asserting that his prior rights have
been thus invaded, a court of-equity will interfere to restrain
the acts of the party complihned of, will depend upon the
chavacter and extent of the injury alleged, whether it be
irremediable in its nature, whether an action at law would
afford adequate remedy, whether the parties are able to respond for the damages resulting from the injury, and other
considerations which ordinarily govern a court of equity in
the exercise of its preventive process of "injunction,
If,_now, we apply the principles thus stated to the present
case, the question involved will be of easy solution. It
appears from the evidence that there is at the point where
the defendants work their mining claims only about two
hundred inches of water in the creek, according to miners'
measurement; that between that point and the point where
the Heiena ditch taps the creek the distance is about fiften
miles; and that between those points the creek is supplied
by .several tributary streams of clear water, so that at the
point where the water is diverted its volume amouts to
about fifteen hundred inches. Of this water the Helena
ditch diverts five hundred inches, and conveys it nearly
eighteen miles to the localities where it is sold. Running
water has a tendency to clear ifself, and that result is often
produced by. a fow of a 'few miles. But in this case the
This is substantially the rule laid down in Hill v. Smith, 27 California,
483; Yale on Mining Claims and Water Rights, 194.

ATCHISON V.

PETERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

evidence shows that the water as it enters the Helena ditch
is muddied and to some extent is affected by sand. At the
same time there is a great preponderance in the evidence to
the effect that the deterioration in quality from this circunistance is very slight and does not render the water to any
appreciable extent less useful oi salable for mining purposes
at the localities to which it is conveyed; and that no additional labor is required on the ditch on account of the niuddied condition of the water. There is also much doubt left
by the evidence whether the sand carried into the ditch
does not to a very great extent come from the hillsides
lying between it and the mining of the defendants, or lying
along the course of the ditch. A sand-gate at the head of
the ditch is necessary, whether there is or is not mining on
the stream above; and the accumulation of sand from all
sources, from the hillsides as well as from the mining of the
defendants, only requires the additional labor of one person
for a few minutes each day. The injury thus sustained, and
which is only to a limited extent attributable to the mining
of the defendants, if at all, is hardly appreciable in comparison with the damage which would result to the defendants
from the indefinite suspension of work ol their valuable
mining claims. The defendants are also responsible parties,
capable, according to the evidence, of answering for a
damages which their mining produces, if any, to the plaintifs. Under these circumstances we think there was no
error in the refusal of the court below to interfere by injunction to restrain their operations, and in leaving the
plaintiffs to their remedy, if any, by an action at law.
With respect to the water diverted by the Yaw-Yaw ditch,
it is shown that its deterioration, so far as the deterioration
exceeds that of the water in the Helena ditch, is caused by.
sand and sediment brought by a tributary which enters the
creek below the head of the Holena ditch.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

