TWENTY PER CENT.; CASES.

179

Statement of the case.

TWENTY PER CANT. CASES.
1. The Twenty.per Cent. Cases (13 Wallace, 576) affirmed, and .the liberal
view there taken of the joint resolution of 28th February, 1867, allowing
to certain persons in the civil service of the United States at Washington,
an additional compensation of twenty per centum upon their respective
salaries as fixed by law, or, where no ,alary is fixed by law, upon their
pay respectively, for one year from the 30th of June, 1866M, declared to
.be the true view and: applied to other cases essentially like those.
2. But not applied to the case of a person hired at Washingtob to do service
out of Washington, nor to a contractor who contracted to deliver finished
work, and who employed another to do -it
for him,.
8. An act passed on the 12th of July, 1870, repealing "all -acts and joint
resolutrs, or parts thereof, and all resolutions of either house of Congross granting extra: pay," the act " to take effect on te 1st day of
July, 1870," did not affect the rights given by the joint resblution abovementioned.
APPEALS in fourteen cases from the Court of Claims; 'the
case being thus:
On the 28th bf February, 1867, Congress passed this joint
resolution : *

"That there shall be allowed and paid . . . to the following
described persons, now employed in the civil service 6f the United
States, at Washington, as follows: To civif officers, temporary
and. all other clerks, messengers, and watchmen, including enlisted men detailed as such, to be computed upon the gross
amount of the compensation received by them; and employ~s,
male and female, in the executive mansion, and in any of the
following named'departments, or any buredu or division thereof, to
wit: state, treasury, war, navy, interior, post-office, attornby-general, agricultural, and including civil officers, and temporary and
all other clerks and employ6s, male and female, in the offices of the
coast survey, naval -observatory, navy yard, arsenal, paymastergeneral, including the division of referred claims, commissarygeneral of prisoners, bureau of refugees, freedmen, and abandoned lands, quartermaster's, capitol and treasury extension;
city post-office, and commissioner of public buildings, to the
photographer and assistant photographer of' the treasury de" 14 Stat. at Large, 569.

TWENTY 'PER OENT. CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

partment, to the superintendent of meters, and to ]amplig'ters
under the commissioner of public buildings, an additionalcompensation of twenty per centum on their respective salaries as fixed by
law, or where no slary is fixed by law, upon their pay respectively,
for one year from and after the 30th day of June, 1866. Provided,
That this resolution shall not apply to persons whose salaries,
as fixed by law, exceed $3500-per annum."'
On the 12th of July, 1870,* Congress passed an act in
these words:
"All acts and joint resolutions, or parts thereof, and all resolutions of either house of Congress granting extra compensation
or pay, be, and the same are hereby repealed, to take effect on
the 1st day of July, 1870."
Under the said joint resolution of 28th of February, 1866,
fourteen different persons filed at different times-some of
them after the passage of the repealing act-claims in the
court.below for the twenty per cent. give hi by the statute.
The first was employed by the bureau of yards and docks,
as a machinist in~the navy yard at Washington, upon daily
wages at the agreed sum and price of $3.25 per day.
The second and third as coppersmiths on the treasury extension, upon daily wages. Unider specific appropriations
for the copstruction of the treasury extension, contracts
were entered into for finished work, comprehending both
materials and] labor-materials s6parately, atd labor by the
day separately. The services in these two cases were'rendered under the latter contracts.
The fourth and fifth as watchmen upon the capitol extension, at daily wages, their compensation changing during
the year.
' The sixth as a laborer upon monthly wages in the quartermaster's department in the city of Washington.
The seventh was employed in the treasury extension as a
laborer upon daily wages; working for part of the time at
$1.75 per day, and for another part at $2 per day.
Tie eighth by the authoi'ity of the surgeon-general "of
* 16 Stat. at Large, 250,

4.

Oct. 1873.]

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Statement of the case.

the army, as a carpenter at the depot for receiving and distribijting medical supplies in Washington.
The ninth was a watchrhan, laborer, and teamster by the
quartermaster's department at Washington.
The tenth was a hiborer by the commissary departm entat
Washington.
The eleverith was a -labordr, upon daily wages, at'be
Wasbington arsenal.
The twelfth was in the secret service division of the Treas-'
ury Department, i n' the capacity of detective,- at a monthly
salary of $150 per month..
The thirteenth, ono Hoffman, was employed by-one of the
luartermasters on duty in the department at Washington,
by the day, 'as sexton at the Arlington Cemetery, near Washinqton, but.in Virginia, and there rendered his services.
The fourteenth, one Be'll, was, a plate-prikter in the bureau of'engiaving and printing in the Treasury Department.
He was paid the rharket price for his work, the price being
neither a salary nqr a per diem compensation, but a fixed rate
for the-work doue; that is to say, per one'hundred sheets
of face priking and per one hundred sheets of back printing. In the perfoimance of his .duties he employed and
paid an assistant, but the pay of the assistant was received
-directly from the disbursing officers of the treasury, and was
deducted by them from the amount earned by the claimant.
The amount paid him after such deduction was.$1184.30 for
twenty per cent. of which the court below entered judgment.
Each of the fourteen claimants was paid the highest rate
of wages commonly paid for services such as his.
The Court of Claims gave judgment, profornia, in all the
cases, fir the claimants, and the government brought the
cases here.
The meaning of the joint resoluti6n-of February 28th,
1867, it,may be well here to state, had been a matter of question in this court on a previ6us occasion in the cases known
as The Twventy per Cent. Cases;* and the court then said that
* 13 Wallace, 576.

182

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

[Sup. lt.

Argument for the government.

persons are "properly in the civil service, if they were employed by the head of the departmeut, pr of the bureau, or
any division of the department charged with that duty, and
authorized to make such contracts, and fix the compensa" tion of persons employed, even though the particular employment may not be designated in any appropriation" act.
* It added, that "many persons not employed as clerks and
iliessengers of the departments are in the public service by
virtue of an employment by the head of the department or
by the head of a bureau of the department authorized by
law to make such contracts; and such persons are as -much
in the service, within the meaning of the joint resolution,
* as the clerks and messengers employed in the rooms of the
department building."

Mr. John Goforth, 'Assistdnt Attorney- General,for the United
States:
In Phe Twdety per Cent. Cases, already reported, the salary
or, pay was fixed directly or limited indirectly by law; and
was a fixed and arbitrary rate of compeusati6n; and the
person employed had no part in naming the amount to be
paid him. In'the cases now here, the compensation was not
fixed "or limited by any law or by the head of any department or division, but was the highest ruling rate in the
market for similar labor, and was fixed by the person employed, and changed by him as the market changed. The
wages were under the restriction of no statute, and the seryices were such as might be rendered to any employer.
In the former Twenty per Cent. Cases, this court, in its
opinion, said:
"Certain described persons and classes of persons are plainly
entitled to the benefit of the provision, whether regarded as
officers or as mere employds, and it is no valid argument against
that -proposition to show that there are or may be other employ~s or persons in the civil service here who are not within
that description, as the terms of the enactment are special and
do not extend to every employment in that service, but only to
the described persons and classes of persons therein mentioned."

Oct. 1873.]

TWENTY PER. CENT. CASES.

183

Opinion of the court.

The claimants in the present cases belong to classes different from those in the case cited. Some are connected
with the military service, and not with the civil at all.
The last two claimants- are clearly excluded. One, HoWf..
man, perforned' his work outside the limits of Washington';
and one, Bell, was a contractor for finished work.
The'repeal of .the joint resolution'of Febr~uary 28th, 1867;
prevented the officers of the ti'easury after its passage from
- paying thetwenty p~ircei.it., and left the Court of Claims-.
without jurisdiction of any action for the rebovery of afly-"
thing ther'eunder. - It is true that statutes in general apply.
only to cases that may heeafter arise., Such an 'act as this-. "
an act repealing other 4cts, &c.-cannot in its nature operate
on future acts. It applies to existing acts.
Messrs. N. P. Chipman, J. Daniels, and A. P. Culver, contra,,
relied on The Twenty per Cent. Cases, and the language showdi.
ing its intended scope, as conclusive.
As for the act of July 12th, 1870, they argued that the.'
real purpose of that act was to cut off a -general class 9f"
extra compensation which had crept into various statutes;
the cutting off of which in future; Oongress thlought advisa e
ble; and, for obvious reasons, that it couldbave. no refer-ence to a case where the. comipensation had been allowe4,
and whe'e presumably (as in the great majority of case infact) it had been received three years before. •
Mr. Justiee CLIFFORD deliveredthe "opininof the court
Additional compensation is claimed by the respecfivd aD'pellees, as employes in the civil.service of the United States
in this city, by virtue of the joint resolutiofi of the, 28th of
February, 1867, which provides that twenty per cent. additional compensation shall be al]wed and -paid to certain"
classes of stich employds 'inWashington, as therein desig-"

nated.
Civil officers, whose annual salaries do not exceed $3500j
and all clerks, whether tdmporary or permanent, and messen-'
ger and watchmen, are sp'eciilcally.fiamed in the resolution,

'TWENTY' PER' CE4T. OOASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

including enlisted men detailed as such, and the provision is
'that the tidditional all6wance shall be computed tipoll the
gross amount of the compensation received by such employ6 as fixed by law, or where no. salary is .fixed by law,
upon the pay of the -employ6 for thatflsscal year, and that
the benefit of the resolut ion shall extend to employ6s, male
and female, in the 'executive mansion and in any of the
following named departments, or' any bureau or division
thdreof,, to ,wit: state, treasury, war, navy, interior, postoffice, attorney-general, and agricultural, and including civil
officers and all clerks'and employ6s, male and female, in the
offices of 'the coast, survey, naval observatory, navy-yard,
arsenal, paymaster-general, bureau of refugees, freedmen.,,
and abandoned lands, quartermasters, capitol and treasury
'extension', city post-office, and commissioner of public buildings; to.the photographer and assistant photographer of the
Treasury Department, to the superintendent of meters, and
to lamp-lighters under the commissionier of public buildings.
Judgments rendered by the Court of Claims, involving
controversids of a like character, were removed into this
court by appeal on a former occasion,* when it became the
duty of this court to examine the joint resolution in question and to determine what, in the judgment of the court, is
its actual scope and true intent and meaning, as applied to
the several cases then before the court.
Attempt was then made in argument to convince me
court that the words of the resolution, "in the civil service
of the United States," as there employed, should be' restricted to persons filling offices or holding appointments
established 4~y law, but the court rejected that narrow construction of the phrase and unanimously decided that neither
a commission nor a warrant of appointment is necessary to
entitle an .employe to the benefits of the joint resolution ,
provided he was actually and properly employed.,iu the ex-:
ecutive mansion, or in any of the departments, or in any
bureau or division ,therof, or in any of the offices specifi*Twenty

per Cent. Cases, 13 Wallace, 576.

Oct. 1873t]

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

185
1

Opinion of the court.

cally designated in the said joint resolution; that persons so
employed here are properly to be regarded as employes in
the civil service'of the United States within the true intent
and meaning of that phraselas there used, if they were em:
.pjoyed by the head of the- department, or of the bureau or
any division of the department, charged with that duty and
authorized to make such. contracts and fix the compezisation
of the person or persons employed, even though the particular mployment may not be designated in an.appropriation
act.
Such was the un~nimons opinion of the court as to the
true construction of the joint resolution under consideration
on that occasion, and the court, with equal unanimity, adheres to that conclusion in the cases before the court.
* .Many'persons, not employed as clerks or messengers of a
department, are in the public service by virtue of an -em-.
ployment by the head of a department, or by the head of
some bureau of a department or divisidn thereof adthorized
to make such contracts, and such persons are as much in the
civil service of the United States, within the nreauing of the
joint resolution, as the clerks and messengers employed in
the rooms of the department buillding.*
Much discussion of that topic, however, is unnecessary,
as the question was explicitly determined in oue former decision, to which reference is made for a full exposition of
the present views of the court upon that subject.
Grant all that, still it is insistea that the joint resolution
has been repealed since tliaf decision was made, and that
the effect of the repealing act is to bar the right of recovery
in all of the cases under consideration; in support of which
proposition reference is riiade to the f6urth -section of the
Appropriat-ion Act of.the 12th of July, 1870, which enacts
that all acts and joint resolutions'or parts thereof, and all
resolutions of either house of Congress granting extra com* United States v. Belew, 2 Brockenbrough, 280; Graham v. United States,
1 Nott ,& Huntington, 380: Commonwealth v. Sutherland, 3 Sergeant &
Eawle, 149.
R

TWENTY PER CENT.

CASES.

rSup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

pensation or pay, be and the same are hereby repealed, .to
take effect on the lt day of July in the same year.*
Two propositions are submitted by the United States, based
upon that repealing act, to show that the respective appellants in these cases cannot recover: (1.) That the repeal of
the joint resolution prevents the officers of the treasury
from paying the additional compensation after the date of
its passage. (2.) That the repealing act, even if the resolution created an implied contract and gave jurisdiction to the
Court of"Claims to enforce it, divested the Court of Claims
of all jurisdiction in such 'controversies.
Both of the propositions,)as it seems to the court, overlook the material facts of the case, all of which are undisputed. They are as follows: (1.) That the joint resolution
ceased to be operative at the end of the fiscal year in which
it was enacted. (2.) That such additional compensation is
allowed only for that year. (3.) That the claims in these
cases are only for such additional compensation during that
fiscal year (4.) That the joint resolution ceased to be operative at the close of that fiscal year. (5.) That the right to
such additional compensation became fixed and vested when
the year's services were faithfully performed. (6.) That the
repealing act, which it is supposed constitutes a bar to the
cause of a.ction in these cases, did not become a law until
more than three years after the right to the additional compensation had become fixed and vested, and the joint resolption had ceased to be operative in respect to prospective
services.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions grave doubts
arise whether the repealing act in question applies at all to
the joint resolution, as it is difficult to believe that Congress
would deem it necessary to repeal a provision which had
expired by its own limitation more than three years before
they acied upon the subject.
Mere supererogation, however, it is said, cannot properly
be imputed to the National legislature, and there would be
16 Stat. atTLarge, 250.

Oct. 1873.]

187

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Opinion of the court.

much force in the suggestion if the joint resolution had at
that time been in operation and had been the only provision
of the kind to which the descriptive words of the repealing
act would apply, but the fact is plainly otherwise, as there
are several acts of corresponding import which were in full
force at that date, and which, it must be admitted, are unquestionably included within those descriptive words.*
Enough appears in the repealing act itself to show that
Congress did not intend to give it any retroactive effect, except as therein provided, as the act expressly enacts'that the
provision in question shall take effect on the 1st day of July
next before the day it was approved, which affords a demonstration that Congress never intended that it should retroact
to any other or greater extent.t
Courts of justice agree that no statute, however positive
in its terms, is to be construed as designed to interfere with
existibg contracts, rights of actions, or with vested rights,
unless the intention that it shall so operate is expressly declared or is to be necessarily implied, and pursuant to that
rule courts will apply new Statutes only to future cases,
'unless there .is something in the nature of the case or in the
language of the new provision which shows that they were
intended to have a retroactive operation. Even though the
words of a statute are broad enough in their literal extent
to comprehend existing cases, they must yet be construed
as applicable only to cases that may hereafter arise, unless
the language employed expresses a contrary intention in
unequivocal terms.1
Such a law, if passed by a State, and construed to have
the effect claimed for it in this case by the appellants, would
be unconstitutional and void; but it is not necessary to discuss any such proposition in this case, as there is not a word
in the repealing act to support the conclusion that Congress
12 Stat. at Large, 587; 14 Id. 206; 15 Id. 77.

t

16 Id. 250.

Protter's Dwarris, 161; Wood v. Oakley, 11Paige, 403; Butler v. Palmer,
1 Hill, 325; Jarvis v. Jarvis, 3 Edwards, 466; McEwen v. Bulkley, 24 Howard, 242; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wallace, 329; Blanchard v. Sprague, 3 Sumner,
535; United States v: Heth, 3 Cranch, 399.

TWENTY PER CENT.

CASES.

IS up. Ct.

Opinion of the Chief Jdstice, and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

intended to rescind amiy antecedent contract, or to enact any
bar to the right of recovery in such cases where the, service
bad been faithfully performed before the repealing'act was
passed.
Apply those rules to the cases before the court and it is
clear the appellees in the first twelve are entitled to recover,
as the finding of the court below shows that the claimant in
each of those cases is included within the joint resolution
as construed and defined by this court.
But the other two claimants, to wit, Hoffman and Bell,
are nbt entitled to recover, the former because he was employed as sexton at the Arlington Cemetery, in the State of
Virginia, and not "in Washington," and because, consequently, his claim is noL within the words of the joint resolution. Nor is the latter, ecatause lie was not in the civil
service of the United States within the meaning of that provision, as he was a plate-printer, working under a contract
at an agleed rate "per one hundred sheets of face printing
and per one hundred sheets of back printing." He employed an assistant, for whose compensation be was responsible; but the finding of the subordinate court shows that
.the assistant was paid directly by the disbursing officer, and
that the sum thus paid was deducted from the gross earnifigs of the claimant. Suffice it to say that'the claimant was
a contractor, and that he employed another to do most or
all of the work, ai'd in -the judgment of the court such a
contractor is not entitled to the additional compensation
allowed and directed to be paid by the joint resolution under
consideration.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED IN THE FIRST TWELVE OASES.
- JUDGMENT REVERSED IN THE LAST TWO CASES, and the causes

remanded, with directions to dismiss the respective petitions.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, in whose opinion concurred the
CHIEF JUSTICE, and Mr. Justice DAVIS, dissenting from
the judgment in the first twelve cases:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in these cases in

Oct.. 1873.]

PAHLMAN v. THE COLLECTOR.
Statement of the case.

of, the claimants, ,and will give my views as briefly as
may be. When the resolution giving the twenty per cent.
was passed, nearly eight months of the ye',ir to which the
allowance related had elapsed. The allowancewas a mere
gratuity. Hence there -was no vested right arising fr6m the
resolution, and there could be none. .But the resolution
was operative in each case -until the claimant was paid.
When repealed, the gratuity which it gave fell with it. The
repeal necessarily had that effect. I see no reason for giving
the' repealing sectioni a more limited construction. It was
intended to take away from all those'who had not then'been
paid, the right to be paid the'eafter. I think, therefoie, that
the judgmepts of the Court of Claitns should be reversed.

-favor

PAHLMAN v. THE COLLECTOR.
Under tile act of July 20th, 1868, imposing taxes on distilled spirits, the
assessor and his assistant, in estiniating the true producing capacity of
a distillery, are empowered to fix as the true fermenting period such
period as they, after examination and calculation, may deem the true
one. They are not bound to take as such the period which the distiller,
in the notice which the sixth section of th'e act requires him to give, has
declared that he would use for fermentation, and which, subsequently,
he actually did use.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois.
•Pahlman & Co., distillers in the district of Illinois just
named, sued Raster, a collector of internal revenue in the
same district, to recover of him certain money which they
had paid to him under protest, as tax upon distilling from
February to July, inuclusi've, in 1871, the amount sued for
being, as was asserted by-them, so much in excess of what
was really due.
The only question involved was one of law, and came up
on .demurrer to sppcial counts in the declaration. That

