498

RUBBER-TIP

PENCIL COMPANY

v.

HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

RUBBER-TIP PENCIL COMPANY V. HOWARD.
Though an idea of a person who afterwards obtains a patent for a device to
give his idea effect, may be a good idea, yet if the device is not new his
patent is void, even though it ba useful. The principle applied to the
patent of J. B. Blair, of July 23d, 1867, for a new manufacture, being
rubber heads for lead-pencils, and the patent held void as being for
nothing more than making a hole smaller than the pencil in a piece of
india-rubber and putting the pencil in the hole, the elastic and erasive
qualities of india-rubber being known to every one, and every one possessing capacity to make a hole in a piece of rubber, and to put a pencil
iri"the hole, so as to be held there for an eraser by the elast.icity of the
rubber.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
On the 23d of July, 1867, J. B. Blair, an artist, alleging
himselr to be the original and first inventor of "a new and
usefhl rubber head for lead-pencils," received a patent for
his invention. His specification and claim were as follows:

"Be it known that I, J. B. Blair, of the city of Philadelphia,
&c., havc invented a new and useful cap or ruober bead to be
applied to lead-pencils, &c., for the purpose of rubbing out pencil-marks; and I do hereby declare the same to be fully described
in the following specifications and represented in the accompanying drawings, of which"Figure 1 is an external view of a pencil as provided with a
rubber or elastic erasive head, constructed in accordance with
my invention.
"Figure 2 is a longitudinal section of the same.
"Figure 3 shows the head, as, made, in a somewhat modified
form, or with its upper end terminating in a cone.
"The nature of my invention is to be found in a new and useful or improved rubber or crasive head for lead-pencils, &c., and
consists in making the said head of any convenient- external
form, and forming a socket longitudinally in the same to receive
one end of a lead-pencil or a tenon extending from it.
"In the said drawings, A denotes a lead-pencil, and B one of
my erasive heads applied thereto. The said head may have a
flat top. surface, or its top may be of a semicircular or conical

Oct. 1874.] RUBBER-TIP PENCIL COMPANY t. HOWARD., 499
Drawings, attached to the specification.

FiG. 2.

FIG. 1.

FIG. 3.

B

AAA

500

RUBBER-TIP PENCIL COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

shape, or any other that may be desirable. Within one end of
the said head I fbrm a cylindrical or other proper-shaped cavity.

This socket I usually make about two-thirds through the head,
and axially thereof; but, if desirable, the socket oi bore may
extend entirely through the said head. The diameter of the
socket should be a very little smaller than that of the pencil to
be inserted in it. The elastic erasive head so made is to fit upon
a lead-pencil at or near one end thereof; and to be so made as

to surround the part on which it is to be placed, and be held
thereon by the inherent elasticity of the material of which the
head may be composed. The said head is to be composed of
india-rubber, or india-rubber and some other material which
will increase the erasive plroperties'of the head.
1'The drawings exhibit.the elastic head so made as to cover
the end as well as to extend around the cylindric sides of the
pencil, but it is evident that the contour of" the said head may.
be varied, to suit the fancy or the taste of an artist or other person; and I do,not limit my invenion to the precise forms shown
inthe drawings, as it may have such or any other convenient
for the purpose, so long as it is made so as to encompass the
pencil and pr6sent an erasive surface about the sides of the
same.
"A head made in my improved manner andapplied to a pencil as above set forth is of great practical utility and advantage
to bookkeepers, accountants,and various other persons. The
pointed form of the head, as shown in Figure 3, will be found
very useful for draughtsmen in erasing lines from their drawings
when it may be desirable not to erase other lines in close proximity to that which it is desirable to erase. The elastic or rubber pencil-head, made as above set forth, may be applied not
only to lead-pencils, but to ink-erasers and other articles of like'
character.
"I claim as a new article of manufacture an elastic erasive
pencil-head, made substantially in manner as described.
1J. B. BLAIR."
This patent having become the property of the RubberTip Pencil Company, and one Howard having made, as the
copmpany alleged, rubber-tipped pencils like those covered
by the patent, the company filed a bill to enjoinl him, &c.

Oct. 1874.]

IRUBiER-TIP PENCIL COMPANY V. HOWARD.

501

Argument in support of the patent.

He set up, among other defences, that the article of manu.
facture claimed as an invention was not patentable as such.
And of this view was the court below. It construed the
invention claimed to be "broadly fny form which would
enable the rubber to encompass a pencil, ink-eraser, or other
articles of like character." It said that the additional words,
"and present an erasive surface about the sides of the samei '
added nothing to the description, because, it was imp6ssible
to have a piece of rubber encompass a pencil, ink-eraser, or
other article of similar charac.ter, without presenting an 6ra
sive surface about the sides of the same."
It said further, that the article was not the subject of a
patent, because the elastic and erasive properties of indiarubber were known to all; "and that no person knowing
the elastic quality of rubber could be wanting in.the knowledge that a piece of rubber could be made to encompass
and adhere to a pencil by making a hole in it; n 6 r could
any one be deficient in the skill requisite to make such a
hole."
From a decree accordingly the company took this appeal.
Mr. . S. Washburn, for the appellant:
1. The construction by the court'below'of the specification
and claim is illiberaland contrary.to the just rule laid dowit
in many cases in this court, including especially a recent one,
that patents for invention are to receive a liberal interpretation, and are, if practicable, to be so construed as to i-phold
and not destroy the right of the intentor.*
There exists in the present case no necessity which compels an illiberal construction. indeed, uch construction
can be sustained only'by rejecting the substantial effect of
the language of the specification, as explained byr the drawings.
The claim is for "an elastic, erasive pencil-head, inade
substantially in manner described." The claim immediately
following the description of the invention must be construed
* Klein

v. Russell, 19 Wallace, 433.

502

RUBBER-TIP PENCIL COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument in support of the patent.

in connection with the explanations contained in the specifications.*
Now, the specification describes the inven'tion as an "improved" rubber, or erasive head for lead-pencils, and shown
in the specification and drawings to be a solid, elastic, socketed,
erasive head, "so made as to fit upon a lead-pencil at or near
theend thereof, and to be so made as to surround the part
on which it is to be placed, and to be held thereon by the
inherent elasticity of the material of which the head niay be
composed," and having the projecting,working erasive surfaces
shown in the drawings, which it-is stated are "constructed
in accordance with my invention," and by which drawings
the invention is stated to be " represented."
It is true that the specification says"The drawings exhibit the elastic head, so made as to cover the
end as wnll as to extend around the cylindric sides of the pencil,
but it is evident that the contour of said head may be varied to
suit the fancy or the taste of an artist or other person ; and I
do not limit my invention to the precise fbrms shown in the
drawings, as it may have such, or any other convenient for the
purpose, so long as it is made so as to encompass the pencil, and
present an erasive surface about the sides of the same."
And from this language the court below assumed that the
head might be of any external form whatever, so long as it
encompasses the pencil, and that the words "and present
an rasive surface about the sides of the same" were without any meaning.
But this is a misconception. The language relied on by
the court below, and above quoted, should be taken in connection with the language preceding:
"The said head may have a flat top surface, or its top may be
of a semicircular or conical shape, or any other that may be
desirable. Within one end of the said head I form a cylindrical
or other proper-shaped cavity. This socket I usually make
about two-thirds through the head, and axially thereof; but, if
desirable, the socket or bore may extend entirely through the
said head."
* Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wallace, 647.

Oct. 1874.]

RijBUER-TIP PEsIcIL O0MPAiY V.. HOWARD.
Argument in support oft

503:

apent.

The statement in the first above-quoted paragraph, that
the contowr,may be varied,.and that- theinventor does- not
limit himself to the "precise" forms shown -in the drawings,
is made with reference to the-" nid qf the pencil being cover ed or uncovered, and is subject t6 the express condition
that the foris ghall be "convenient for the purpose," and
the implied condition -tobe fairly ddrived from" the use of
,the word "precise," that they -must correspond substantially
with the drawings.- There is cei'tainly pothing fronii which it
can be fairly derived that he.intended to disclaim time features
which are clearly portrayed in the drawings, upon which its
practical value as an eraser depends; ahd the use of the
words." to suit the fancy or-the taste of an artist or other
person," confines the meaning of the inventor to a matter
of simple style, and- inidicates that he does not limit himself to,
a-precise contour as a matter of ornamental configuration.
This is further indicated by the fact that, fn thedrawings,
while the top of the head is varied and the contour of the projecting erasive working surfaces about the sides may be
varied ftom hexagon to square or ciicular, the projecting,
working surfaces themselves are always retained.
It is also evident from the context that the w6rds "and
present'an erasive surface about the sides of-the same"
mean. such erasive surface as is portrayed in the drawings,
and as is "convenient for the purpose."
The court below therefore disregarded the drawings. B.ut
it is well settled that the drawings constitute a part of the
specification, and are to be resorted to to aid a specification,
which would otherwise be imperfect; to help out the description; to furnish clearer information respecting the invention described in the specification; -to show the nature,
9haracter, and extent of the claim, as well as make a part of
the description; and to add anything to the specification
*whichis not specifically contained or mentioned,therein.*
The fact that the construction placed up'on the language
v. Sawyer, 4 Massachusetts, 9; Burrall v. Jewett, 2 Paige, 143;
*Earl
Washburn v, Gould, 8 Story, 133, 138, 139; Emerson v. Hogg, 2 Blatchford,
9; Hogg v. Emerson, 6 Howard, 485; 11 Id. 606.

504

RUBBER-TIP PENCIL COMPANY

v.

HOWARD.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the court.

in- the present'case is inconsistent with what the drawings
establish, is enough to show it to be a misconstrfiction.
2. There are certain leading facts, known to everybody,
which answer the concluding remarks of the court below,
and are of themselves enough to decide this case.
Lead-pencils have very.long-longer than any living man
remembers-been used to make marks. India-rubber has
very long-longer than any living man remembers-been
used to rub them out. But never until lately was indiarubber used for this purpose except in a form disconnected
from the pencil. But on a summer's morning of 1867, one
Blair, a poor artist of Philadelphia, seeing that it will be
more convenient to use it on his pencil than off, puts in a
certain way, a piece of a certain shape, on the pencil, and
finding a great advantage in thus using such a piece, shows
what he has done. Behold ! thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions of rubber-tipped pencils at once appear.
Very rich companies, like the Rubber-Tip Pencil Company, are incorporated. Great capital is invested in the
matter, and rubber-tipped pencils become a manuthcture of
the nation. How can it be said that there is no invention
here?' So far as the patent laws are concerned, utility, as
ascertained by the conseqdences of what is done, is the test
of invention, and when utility is proved to exist in any great
degree, a sufficiency of invention to support the patent must
be presumed.* In such a case it. is vain to talk about the
small amount of ingenuity shown or to say that the arrangement and application are so simple and obvious that anybody could see them.

Messrs. F. W. Betts and S. W. -Kellogg, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question which. naturally presents itself for considera* Roberts v. Dickey, Circuit Court of the United States, Western District
of Pennasylvania, per Strong, J., and McKennan, circuit judge, 1 Official
Gazette, 4, 5, 6; and see. MdCormick v. Seymour, 2.Blatchford, 243; and
Curtis on Patents i J 41.

Oct. 1874.]

RUBBER-TIP PENCIL COMPANY V. HOWARD.

505

Opinion .ofthe court.

"tion at the outset of this inquiry is, whether the new ai'ticle
of'manufacture, claimed as an invention, was patentable -as
such. If not, there -is an end of.the case and we need not
go further.
A patent may be obtained for a new or useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new
and usefil improvement thereof .In this case, as has been
seen, Blair's patent was for "a new manufactie," being ,a
*newand, useful rubber head for lead-pencils. It was not for
the combination of the head with the pencil, but for a head
to be attached to a pencil or something else of like character.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to-examine the description
which the patentee has given of his ilew article of manufacture, and determine what it is, and whether it was prop'erly
the subject of a patent.
It is to be made of rubber or rubber and some other-material which'will increase its erasive properties. This part
of the invention alone could not have been patented. Rubber had long been known, and so had rubber combined
with other substances to increase its naturally erasive qualities.
It'fis to be of any convenient external form. It may have
a flat-top surface, or its top may be of a seriiicircular or conical shape, or any other that may be desirable. This would
seem- to indicate clearly that the external form was not a
part of the invention. *It Was, however, urged upon the
.argument, that the invention did consist in the projecting
surfaces extending out from the head, and which appear,-as
is claimed, in the drawings attached to the specifications.
It is true, that in two out of the three drawings projecting
surfaces are indi~ated, but-such is not beyond question the
case with the third. The shape there shown is conical, extending to a point, and evidently intended to represent the
form mentioned as specially'adapted'to the use of draughtsmen in e'rasing lines from their drawings. It was the end
of such a pencil, not the sides, that was to furnish the particular advantage of form. But although drawings do
accompany the specification and are referred to, it is evident

506

RUBBER-TIP PENCIL COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion *ofthe court.

that this reference is for the purpose of illustration only, because the patentee is careful to say that "he does not limit
his invention to the precise forms shown, as it may have
such or any other convenient'for the purpose, so. long as it
is made so as to'encompass the pencil and present an erosive
surface upon the sides of the same." Certainly words could
hardly have been chosen to 'indicate more clearly that a
patent was not asked for the external form, and it is very
evident that the essential' element of the invention as understood by the patentee was the facility provided for attaching
the head to the pencil. The prominent idea inl the mind of
the inventor clearly was the form of the attachment, not of the
head. If additional proof of this is required, it may be found
in the further statement in the specifications, which locates
the head for use at or near the end of the pencil, and so made
as to surround the part on which it is to be placed and be
held thereon by the inherent elasticity of the material of
which it is to be composed. If intended for use at any other
place than on the end of the pencil, the projections could
not be essential, as any form that would surround the part
would present the requisite erasive surface.
Again, the head is to lave in it longitudinally, a socket
to receive one end of a lead-pencil or a tenon extending from
it. This socket is to be cylindrical or of any other proper
shape.' Usually, the inventor says, he made it so as to extend part way through the head, but if desirable, it might
be extended entirely through. It must be within one end,
but any particular location at the end is not made essential.
This clearly is no more than providing that the piece of
rubber to be used must have an opening leading from one
end into or through it. This opening may be of any form
and of any extent longitudinally. The form, therefore, of
the inside cavity is no more the subject of the patent than
the external shape. Any piece of rubber with a hole in it
is all that is required thus far to meet the calls of the specifications, and thus far there is nothing new, therefore, in the
invention. Both the outside and inside may be made of any
form which will accommodate the parties desiring the use. -

Oct. 1874.]

ATCHISON V.

PETERSON.

Syllabus.

But the cavity must be made smaller than the pencil and
so constructed as to encompass its sides and be held thereon
by the inherent elasticity of the rubber. This adds nothing
to the patentable character of the invention. Everybody
knew, when the patent was applied for; that if a solid substance was inserted into a cavity in a piece of rubber smaller
than itself, the rubber would cling to it. The small opening
in the piece of rubber not limited in form or shape, was not
patentable, neither was the elasticity'of the rubber. What,
therefore, is left for this patentee but the idea that if a pencil
is inse'ted into a cavity in a piece of rubber smaller than
itself the rubber will attach itself to the pencil, and wil"n so
attached become convenient for use as an eraser?
An idea of itself is not patentable, but a new device by
which it may be made practically useful is. The idea of
this patentee was a good one, but his device to give it effect,
though useful, was not new. Consequently he took nothing
by his patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

ATCHISON V. PETERSON.

1. On the mineral lands of the public domain in the Pacific States and Territories, the doctrines of the common law, declaratory of the rights of
riparian proprietors respecting the use of running waters, are inapplicable or applicable only in a very limited extent to the necessities of
miners, and inadequatd to their protection; there prior appropriation
gives the better right to running waters to the -ext~nt, in quantity and
quaility, necessary ?or the uses to which the water is applied.
2. What diminution of quantity, or deterioration in quality, will constitute
an invasion of the rights of the first appropriator will depend upon the
special circumstances of each case; and in controversies between him
and parties subsequently claiming the water, the question- for determination is whetfier his use and enjoyment of the water to the extent of
the original appropriation have been impaired by the -acts of the other
parties.

