Oct. 1874.]

BELLE OF TIIE SEA.

Statement of the case.

BELLE OF THE SEA.
-1. Where adjusters of average, under directions from a mortgagee of a
vessel illpossession, and with the consent of her owners, undertake to

adjust the business of the vcsscl on her coming in from a voya1ge ill
which sie-has suffered disasters and heen obliged to take up money on
bottomry, procced in their office, collect the freights, general average,
and insurance, pay the bottoinry bond, having it assigned to them-elves,
and make the necessary disbursements of the vessel, it will not be in-

ferred, except upon clear proof, that they meant to extinguish as against
themselves the bottomry lien.

2. Nor will a relrcsentation in the nature of a mere opinion by them as to
what will be the result of the whole adjustment, prevent them from en-

forcing their bottoinry lien, if the freight, insurances, &c.,do not discharge it, against a purchaser of the vessel who has relied on the represen tation.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvaui'a; the case being thus:
The American ship "Belle of" the Sea," owned by one
Kimball, being in the port of New York, a certain 11ammond, of that city, lent to her said owner, Kimball, $25,000
on a mortgage of thile
vessel ; and the vessel sailed to Calcutta. On her return voyage from Calcutta to New York,
she sprung a leak, was obliged to put into M1auritius for repairs, and to take up $46,000 on bottornry, the bottomry
bond (now held by the Messrs. Ward in New York), covering
ship, cargo, and freight. There were policies of insurance
on both the ship and freight.
Shortly before the arrival of the ship at New York, the
mortgage on her being long overdue, and the owner of the
vessel, Kimball, being supposed to be unable to pay either
bottomry bond or mortgage, Hiammond, the holder of the
mortgmige, addressed himself to Higgins & Co., average adjusters, telling them that on the arrival of the vessel lie
meant to take possession of her, and that lie wanted them to
protect his interest in the mortgage generally. According
to the account given of the matter by Ihiggins & Co., they
agreed with him " to transact the business, take u1) the bond,

BELLE OF THE SEA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and divide one-half the commissions that could be earned, in
the case." They subsequently saw the Wards, holders of
the bond, and offered to take it up in behalf of Hammond,
the mortgagee. The Wards agreed that if before twelve
o'clock of a day named andthen near at hand, Kimball, the
owner of the vessel, did not take it up, they, the adjusters,
might do so. At about eleven o'clock of the day thus fixed
Kimball came with his two sons to the office of the adjusters.
Higgins's account of the interview was to this effect:
"Mr. Kimball stated generally that he thought of putting
the business of the vessel in our hands. I then'told him that
we had made all arrangements with Mr. Hammond to take up
the bond, and that at twelve o'clock we expected to get it; that
I did not think he could raise the requisite amount of money, or
find anybody ready at a moment's notice to go into the affair,
and that I therefore considered we were pretty certain of getting it.

"I further stated to him that as Hammond was then acting
as mortgagee in possession, I didn't see that there need be any
conflict, for if he could find any one to supply him with money
to pay off Hammond, he would be bound to account for all
moneys received by him flowing from the business of the vessel,
and told him that I had made an arrangement with Hammond
to divide one-half of the commissions with him. Mr. Kimball
stated that he hoped to raise money and pay off Hammond, and
that in that event he would expect flammond to account to him
for these commissions. I told him that my fee would be made

in accordance with the trouble in the case. lie then expressed
his satisfaction, and volunteered to go and tell Mr. Ward that it
was agreeable to him that we should take up the bond. I think

I told him that we would endeavor to do justice to all parties
interested; and he went away. At twelve o'clock we took up
the bond; t6ok an assignment of it from the Wards; and then
we went on to manage the business of the vessel; everything
being managed by Mr. Hammond, personally, in his capacity as
mortgagee in possession. We put a man in possession. Mr.
Kimball subsequently transferred the policies of insurance on

the ship to us.
"I should state also that the same (lay,before we took up the
bond, we were called on by the charterer, Samuel Stevens, who

Oct. 1874.]

BELLE OF THE SEA.

Statement -of the case.

stated that he expected to have taken up the bond if he could
have got it, in order to protect himself for advances made to
the ship on account of freight-moneys, which he said amounted
to $27,500, or thereabouts, and that he had given notice to all
the consignees not to pay the freight to anybody else but himself. I told him that that process w6uld lock the whole freightmoney up in court, and involve the whole. thing in litigation,
and that I didn't see why his rights couldn't be preserved by
letting us collect the freight, and hold it subject to all the legal
rights of all concerned. He said he thought it could be so done,
provided we didn't allow ourselves to prejudice anybody's interest at the expense of another. I told him that it was very
desirable that we should all move together, and that if he would
lend his aid in having the whole matter amicably settled without litigation, we would pledgo Qurselves to act with the strictest
impartiality to all parties. He' expressed himself as entirely
satisfied with such a pledge, and so promised, and thereupon
went and -informed the consignees that they might pay the
freight to us."
The tWo sons of Kimball, who, as already mentioned,
were present at the interview between Kimball and the adjusters, gave an account of it somewhat different from thatgiven by the adjuster. Their statement was as follows:
"Mr. Higgins proposed to pay the bond for Mr. Kimball if Mr.
Kimball would give him adjustments of claims against companies.
He said thatlie would not charge any cominission for payment
of bottomry bond, as he would not be out of that money mbre
than a day or two, as he intended to require paymeht immediately, and 'before delivery of cargo, of all charges on cargo,
naming the freight- and general average thereon ; that there
were not many owners of cargo, and that 'they were very
earnest to get their goods; several had called, and they would
pay any moment the entire freight and estimate of general
average on" cargo. Mr. Higgins estimated the freight at about
$34,000, and the general average on cargo at $20,000, which
wbuld more than pay bottomry bond and disbursements on
crew inwards, &e. This was all verbally agreed to by both
parties. They said that they would apply collections to bond im"mediately."

BELLE OF THE SEA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser of the ship.

Nothing was said at this interview about Mr.Kimball's
policies of insurance, but at a subsequent meeting they were
handed to i. Higgins to be collected, the amount to be
applied to payment of the bond, if necessary.
During these operations, one Nickerson was desirous of
buying the ship, and finally did buy it. lHe gave this account
of his purdhase:
"Before I purchased I had an interview with Higgins & Co.,
the agents of the former owner, Mr. Kimball, who had placed
the affairs of the ship, arising out of her last voyage, in their
hands for settlement. In this interview they assured me that
if certain claims of the freighters were paid there would be a
balance of some $3000 in their hands belonging to the ship. On
this assurance I bought the ship, and paid the freighters' claims."
Higgins in giving al account of this same matter stated
that lie had put all the accounts before Nickerson, who examined them, and had his own adjusters examine them;
and he denied, in efite, that lie had made such representations as those alleged.
As things turned out Higgins & Co. could not get all the
insurance-money claimed, and asserted by them to be due
from the insurers; and there was a deficit which was to fill
on soncr one. On whom it was to fall was the question.
The adjusters, Higgins & Co., asserted that it was to fall on
the ship under the bottomiry bond; they having been subrogated to the rights of the Wards. Nickerson, the purchaser, asserted on the contrary that it was to fall on Higgins
& Co., the adjusters, who had undertakeni to pay the bond,
and to look to freight, insurance; &c., fbr reimbursement.
The two parties being thus unable to agree, and the vessel
being in the:port of Philadelphia, Higgins & Co. libelled her
there for the deficit. The District Court decreed in their
fivor, and the Circuit Court on appeal affirmed the decree.
Nickerson now brought the case here.
Mr.Renry Flanders,for the appellant:
1. The testimony shows tlat the adjusters expected conidently that the freight, insurance, &c., would reimburse

Oct. 1874.]

BELLE OF THE SEA.

Argument for the adjusters.

them, and, theiefore, that they agreed to pay and did pay the
bottomry bond. The testimony of the two sons of Kimball
shows this. Higgins's own testimony shows it no less; for
he says that his firm was employed "to take up the bond."
The bottomry lied being thus once extinguished is not revived-especially is not revived against an itinocent purchaser for value-because the adjusters expected to get
money which they failed to get. The present case isone of
every-day occurrence. The adjusters anticipated uncertain
profits, and did not get them. For this, their own error.of
judgment, they must themselves suffer.
2. In addition to this, we have as h defence the assurance
of Higgins to Nickerson, before the purchase of this last,
that if certain claims of freighters were paid there would be
a balance in favor of the ship; and the fact that on that assurance alone, Nickerson purehas'ed.
The testimony on both parts of the case is,on the appellant's side, positive, specific, and to the point. The other
side opposes to it but general denials.
Mr. S. . Perkins, contra:
1. The purchaser of the vessel alleges, that the 'lien of
bottomry was extinguished, by an agreement by the adjusters
With the owner of the ship that they would take up the
bond and look only to the freight, general average, and insurance for their reimbursement. ' This he is bound plainly
to prove. Rag he.proved it?
It is evident that the adjusters had proposed to the Wards
to pay the bond and take an assignment of it, before they
had any interview with Kimball, the owner of the ship.
Their occupation being that of adjusters of averages,they
were doubtless desirous to be employed in that capacity in
reference to this ship. Whatever estimate they may have
made of the comparativei'esources and libilities of the ship,
whatever assurances they. may have given as to their ability,
to marshal and adjust them for the best interests of the
owner, these are to be considered as reasons suggested for
their employment, rather ttan as importing a !stipulation

BELLE OF THE SEA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the adjusters.

that they would accept such resources as their sole security
for reimbursement. Proposing to pay the amount of the
bond and to take an assignment of it, it is improbable that
they intended to forego the certain security thus affirdedthem, and depend upon the problematical sufficiency of the
ship's credits to return their large advances. Admitting
that they were the agents of the ship-owner, the payment of
his debt with. their own money would not work a satisfaction of the debt or an extinguishnent of the security for it.
By the assignment of the bond they took the place of the
bottomrV creditors, and there is no incompatibility in the
rights to which they thus succeeded and their duties and
obligations as agents of the debtors. Certainly there is no
implication, in equity, at least, flhat by becoming agents of
the debtor they thereby surrendered or lQst any of their
securities as creditors. Admitting further, that they paid
the bond in pursuance of an arrangement with the owner
to that effect, still the debt with its incidents subsisted and
would only be discharged by payment in money or some
other conventional mode. The defence really concedes
this much. For it does not allege that the bond itself was
satisfied, but only that it is not a lien upon the ship, because
the adjusteis paid it on the faith.-nd credit of the freights,
general average, and insurance exclusively. But such conclusion can only result from an express or implied agreement to that effe ct. That the adjusters expressly agreed to
take up the bond and forego its lien does not appear in all
the proofs, nor is it to be inferred from the fact of their
agency, or from an agreement to take it up with their money
and to adjust the liabilities and marshal the resources of the
ship fir the best interests of her owner.
2. If the adjusters represented to Nickerson, the purchaser of the vessel, that if certain claims of the freighters
were paid, there would be a balance in their hands in favor
of tlie ship, or her owner, and lie thereupon paid these
'claims and purchased the ship, they could not maintain this
suit. But this is a fact which it devolves upon the respondent to prove. The proof of it rests upon his unsupported

o06t. 1874.]

BELLE OF THE SEA.
Opinion of the court.

testimony. It is denied by the libellant, Higgins, who is
alleged to have made the representation. Thus affirmed by
one party, and denied by the other, it cannot be considered
as established, and the estoppel, wliich rests upon it, necessarily fitls.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Very clearly the ship was not discharged from. the bottomry lien, unless the bond was actually paid, or unless the
libellants agreed 'to pay it and look to the. freights, the general average, and the insurances exclusively for their reimbursement. Of actual payment there is no evidence whatever. On the arrival of the ship at New York, Mr. E. A.
Hammond, who had a mortgage upon her., which, with
interest, amounted to more thail $80,000, took her into his
possession, in virtue of authority conferred by the mortgage,
and employed the libellants to take up the bottonry bond,
to collect the freight, the general average and insurance, and
generally to transact the business of the vessel. Subsequently this arrangement was assented to by the owner and
the charterer. Accordingly the libellants took up ihe'bond
by taking an assignment of it from the Messrs. Ward who
held it, and proceeded to adjust the business of the ship,
collecting the freights, general average, and insurance, and
making the necessary disbursements, but as they were unable
to realize from the insurances what was expected, the sums
collected proved insufficient to pay the expenses of discharging the ship, the commissions, and the necessary disbursements, together with the bottomry bond. They now claim
the right to apply what they have been able to collect, first,
to reimburse themselves, the commissions, necessary expenses, and disbursements made by them on accohnt of the
ship; and, secondly, to the discharge-of the bottomry lien,
looking to the ship for that portion of the bond which, by
such marshalling of the fund, remains unpaid. And such,
we think, are their rights, if they have not beenosurrendered.
By the assignment of the bottomry bond to 'them, they became bottomry creditors, and even. if there had been no such

428"

BELLE OF THE SEA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

assignment, and had they in fact paid the bond at the instance of the owner and mortgagee, they would have been
entitled in equity to the rights of the bottomry creditor.
Being thus creditors by bottomry and also by payments oh
behalf of the ship for expenses, they have a clear right to
apply wihatever funds of the ship come to their hands, first,
to the satisfaction of their unsecured claims, and secondly,
to the bond, and to look to the sship fo.r any unpaid balance
of the bottomry. IF, however, when they undertook their
agency they agreed to pay the boridi and thus discharge its
,eight'
the general average, and the inlien, ]ookig to the f
.surance alone for reimbursement, or to the pirsonal liability
of the oWner, as the appellants insist they did, they cannot
now set up a lien on the ship. *But we do not think the
evidence, establishes any such agreement, iind its existence
is'quite improbable. They were adjusters of averages, and
they desired to be employed as such to attend to the business of the ship. To secure such-employment, they made
th, most favorable representation of what they were able and
willing"to do. .But they propbsed to the Messrs. Ward, who
held the' bond, to take it up, taking an assignment of it, before they had any interview with Mr. Kimball, the owner.
They cotld then have had no-accurate knowledge of the
amounit of the freight, the general average, and the insurance. "They could not have known that the ship's resources
would suffice to pay'the bottomry, and the other expenses
necessary to .make the freight and the general average ava'ilable. And they had then no contr'ol over the insurances. It
is, therefore, quite unlikely that they undertook to pay the
bond and discharge the lien. Their arrangement was with
the mortgagee, and there is no evidence that they agreed.
with him to do anything more than take the bond from the
holder and act as general agents of the ship in adjusting its
affairs. The proos do not establish that in that arrangement they undertook to satisfy the bottomry and extinguish
its lien without regard to the amount of freight, general
average, and insu4"ances which could be collected, and without regard to the necessary disbursements and commissions.

Oct. 1874.]

BELLE OF THE SEA.
Opinion of the court.

Such is not the testimony of Mr. Hi'ggius, nor has the mortgagee so testified, and the owner was not present at the
arrangement.
The appellants, however, rely upon the statement of two
sons of the owner, who do not speak*at 6l of the arrangement with the mortgagee. They speak only of a subsequent
interview of Mr.Higgins with the owner, from whom the
possession had been taken, and who. had then no control
over he settlement of the ship's aflfairs. Their statement is
that Higgins proposed to pay the bottomry bond for the
owner if he would give his firm adjustments of claims against
insurance companies, and expressed his convictions of what
his firm could do, making some promises respecting the rate
of commissions, and promising to apply collections to the
bond immediately. The sons state further that this was
verbally agreed to, but the policies were not delivered in
pursuance of any such agreement, nor was there any agreement to deliver them, and what is very remarkable, the
sons state that nothing was said at that interview about
the policies. They were subsequently handed to Mr. Higgins to be collected, and the amount to be applied to the
payment of the bqttomry bond, if necessary. These witnesses are contradicted in some particulars by Mr. Higgins,
but assuming that their statement is correct, it falls far short
of proof that Higgins agreed to discharge the ship from the
bottomry lien, or agreed to pay the bond and look only to
the freight, insurances, and general average. And, even if
the firm could be considered as agents of the owner, the
payment of his debt, or the debt of the ship, could iiot work
a satisfaction of the debt, or extinguish its lieu. It would
only change the creditor. We are of opinion, tlen, that no
arrangement with the owner has been proved b ,which the
libellants have been disabled from enforcing the bottomry
lien.
Another defence has been set up. The appellants contend that the libellants are estopped from resorting to the
ship for any balance of the bond unpaid, by their represen-

TH

,ONTELLO..

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

tations. Thdy insist that .they purchased the ship relying
upon a, representation df-Mr. Higgins, that if they pu.chased
and would settle certain claims of the charterers, there would.
be at least three thousand dollars beyond what wds needed
-to p'ny the bottomry bond, and other claims of his firm.
There is, however, no sufficient proof of such representations. They are 'denied by Mr. Higgins, and the only person who affirms they were made is Mr. Nickerson, the
purchaser himself. And even the testimony of Nickerson
appears to assert only that Higgins expressed an opinion
respecting what would be the result, rather than a positive
assertion of the fact. This is quite an insufficient basis for
an estoppel, and manifestly the opinion was not relied upon.
Nickerson had examined for himself some of the accounts
at least.
This disposes of the case. Adhitting the libellants have
no-lien in admiralty for their fees and commissions, or even
for their disbursements on account of the ship, they had, as
we have said, a right to apply the funds they had in hand,
first to the satisfaction of the debt due them for such fees,
commissions, and disbursements, applying only the remainder to the bond. For the balance unpaid they have the
security of the bottomry lien.
DECREE AFFIRMED, with interest at the fate allowed in
Pennsylvania, and with costs.

THE MONTELLO.
1. The navigability of a stream, for the purpose of bringing it within the
terms C navigable waters of the United States," does not depend upon
the mode by which comnmerce is conlucted upon it, as whether by
steamers, or sailing vessels, or Durham boats, nor upon the ilfliculties
attending navigation; such as those made by falls, ralids, and sandbars, even though these be so great as that while they'last they prevent
the dise of the best means, such as steamboats, for carrying on commerce.

