Oct. 1873.]

ROACH V. SUMMERS.
Statement of the case.

Defences in avoidance of the claim made in the declaration must be proved in the court of original jurisdiction, and
if not prbved there they cannot be successfully set up in the
appellate court to support an assignment of error.
Other matters were discussed at the bar, but it is not necessary to examine aily other of the propositions submitted,
as these suggestions are sufficient to dispose of the case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

ROACH V. SUMMERS.
1. A. surety is not discharged by a contract between his principal and their
common obligee, which does not place him in a different position Trom
that which tie occupied before the contract was made.
2. Answers in chancery not responsive to a bill, and not sustained by other
proof, are of no avail as evidence.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi.
Summers & 0o; filed a bill in the court below against
Eugene and Naylor Roach (the last a representative of I. W.
Roach, deceased), and R.. B. and B. M. Butler, for an account
and for the foreclosure of a mortgage. The bill averred
that in the year.1867, the said E. and I. W. Roach, demised
a plantation in the State of Mississippi to R. B. and B. M.
Butler for the business of cotton planting; that to enable
the Butlers-to obtain supplies for the plantation from the
complainants, Summers & Co., the Messrs. Roach, together
with the Butlers, executed two promissory notes, each in
the sum of $2500, payable to the complainants, dated February 1st, 1867, and falling due in October and November
of that year; that payment of-the notes was secured by a
mortgage given by the Messrs. Roach, and that it was agreed
the cotton raited lon the demised plantation should be shipped
to the complainants; nothing being alleged in the bill as to
what was then to be done with it or its proceeds. The bill

ROACH V.-- SUMMERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

further averred that il lumrsuance of this. arrangement the
complainants ma(le advances to the Butlers, a part of which
wasi repaid out of tile proceeds of the cotton crop of 1867,
but that $4774.69 remained unpaid after credit had been
givel fir the cotton shipped in that year; that the Butlers,
being desirous to continue planting cotton on the plantation
during the year 1868, and being without the necessary money
and supplies for that purpose, applied to the complainants
to make additional advances, to secure which, as well as the
-balance then due, they executed a deed of trust of all the
crops'of corn and cotton they might raise on the plantation,
stipulating that the net proceeds should be applied-first, to
the payment of the supplies furnished for 1868; and seeondly, to the payment of the balance due for the supplies
furnished in 1867. It i3 then averred that after givi, ag credit
for all the cotton received there remained a balance due to
the complainants of about $3600, the proceeds of the crop
of 1868 having more than paid the advances made during
that year, and having reduced the balance due at the close
of 1867.
The defence set up in the answers was that the Messrs.
Roach were only sureties for the repayneut"of tile advances
made to the Butlers in 1867, not exceeding $5000; that the
notes and mortgage were givesi as securities for such repayment; that it was agreed that all the crops of cotton raised on
the demised plantation should be applied to the payment o)f the votes,
and that the collon should be shipped to the complainant.s by the
Butlers for that purpose as rapidly (is it could be prepared for
market, but that in fraud of the agreement the cornpl'ainants
subsequently, on the 19th day of February, 1867, entered
into all arrangement with the Butlers, without the knowledge of the sureties, by which it was stipulated they should
have an intere.t in) the crop of 1867, that the Butlers should
pay 21 per cent. comnissions on the advances made, 10 per
cent. interest, and the usual dommissions for selling the
cotton. It was further answered that in their account the
complainants did charge 10 per cent. interest on money advanced, and 2- .per cent. commissions; that instead of ad-

Oct. 1873.]

R OACHI V. SUMIMERS.

Statement of the case.

vancing supplies for the plantation, as they had agreed to
do, they advanced chiefly money, and that by their usurious
charges they made up the balance of $4774 as due at the
close of the year 1867. The gnswers then asserted that the
agreement of Febru'ary 19th, 1867, and t.he subsequent dealings of the complainants with the butlers, as exhibited by
their aciconts, in which they charged 10 per cent. interest
and commissions, was an abandonment of the original contract and inconsistent with it, and that it operated as a release of the notes and mortgage.
The matter in issue was, therefore, a question of fact.
Was the original agreement(a verbal agreement confessedly)
which the bill set forth-the agreement that the cotton
raised onihe demised plantation should be shipped to the complainanls-accompanied with the further stipulation which
the answer alleged that it wad' accomianied with, to .wit,
that all the crops of cotton raised on the demised plantation
should be applied to the payment of the notes, and that the
cotton should be shipped to the complainants by the Butlers for that purpose, as rapidly as it could be prepared for
market. ?
If this further stipulation was not contemporai'y with the
original agre6ment, then the defence had no merit.
The language of the answer of Eugene Roach was thus:
"This resjondent answering,, says, that it was agreed and
understood by and between said complainants and said Butlers
that all the crops of cotton raised on said plantation, should be
applied to the payment of the aforesaid promissory notes, and that
the same should be shipped by said Butlers, for that purpose,-as
rapidly as,it could be preparedfor market."
That of the Rutlers (a joint answer), thus:
"They now state and aver that the sole and only consideration for the said notes, as understood and agreed upon by the
said Roachs, these respondents and complainants, was"plantation supplies to be furnished to these respondents by complainants for the leased plantation for the year 1867, and in no event
were the said Roachs to be liable for a greater amount of sup-

ROACH V.

SUMMERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

plies than the face of said notes. The said Roachs were to be
liable only for the supplies for the year 1867, not exceeding
$5000. The notes were simply given as security for said advances. It was further agreed between the said parties that
the crop of 1867 was to be shipped to said complainants, and
the succeeding crops to be also shipped, and that all shipments
were to be first applied as credits on the said notes."
Eugene Roach and R. B. Butler were examined as witnesses. The former said:
"The agreement between the parties to the notes mentioned
in the bill, in regard to the payment, thereof, was that the cotton
raised by the Butlers should be shipped to Summers and Brannins, and proceedsfirst applied to the payment of the notes. I was
not present when the .agreement alluded to was made, but was
subsequently informed by my brother, I. W. Roach, that such
agreement was made when the notes were executed by the other
parties; and at my brother's solicitation, and on account of his
statement of such agreement, I ailso signed the notes."*
The testimony of B. M. Butler as appearing ou examination in chief and on cross-examination, was thus:
Examined in chief.
Question. State whether or- not, at the time said notes were
made, there was any agreement that all the cotton shipped and
to be shipped by you and ypur co-defendant, B. M. Butler, for
the year 1867, as well as for subsequent years, was to be sold,
and the proceeds thereof applied by complainants to the payment of said notes in preference to any other debts against you ?
"Answer. There was such an agreement2
Cross-examined.
"Question. State when the agreement referred to in the interrogatory--in-ehief was made, the particular date and year;
whether before or after the notes and mortgage referred to in
this ease were made; with vhom and by whom said agreement
was made.
"Answer. The agreement was made in New Orleans, the 19th
day of February, 1867, after the notes and mortgage were exe* The brother here mentioned was now dead.

Oct. 1873.]

ROAoCH V. SUMMERS.
Opinion of the court.

cuted, with 'a member of the firm of Summers & Ob., by me,
acting for B. M. aid R. B. Butler."
Upon the bill; answer,'and proofs the Oirouit Oourt decreed in favor of the complainants, but in the seWrIment of
the account and ascertainment of the debt du6 they wre
credited with only 8 pt-' cent. intefest and 2i peo nt. corn-.
missions, *hile they were charged with- the proceeds of all
the cotton received by them from the plantatiqu 'for both"
the years 1867 and 1868, and no'exception was takeh to this
mode of stating the account.
This appeal was taken by the. defendants Roach.Mr. P. Phillips, for the appellants; Mr. Montgomery Blair..
(with whom was Mr. J. B. Beck), contra.
Mir. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
No exception was taken in the Circuit Oouit to the mode.
in which the account was stated. -Of course no exception
can now be taken.
The only question, therefore, which can be considered in
this court is whether the agreement of February 19th, 1867,
by which it was stipulated between the complainants and
the Butlers that the former should have an interest in the
crop of 1867, as well as 10 per cent. interest and 2j per cent..
commissions for advances, operated as release of the notes
and mbr.gage given by the sureties. The answe'rl to the
question depetids upon what took place when the Messrs.
Roach became sureties.
Waiving attention to the fact that no particular. or defined
ifiterest was given to the, complainants by their arrangement
with the Butlers, it is plain it could not work a discharge of
the sureties, unless it placed them in a different position
from that which they occupied before it was made. If it
took away any. security they had in virtue of their contract
with the complainants, it was doubtless a fraud -upon them,
and they are not holden by their notes and mortgage. If,
when they 'became sureties, it was agreed by all the parties
themselves, the complainants- and the Butlers, that all the

ROACH V. SUMMERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cotton crops raised on the demised plantation should be
shipped to the complainants 'and credited against the advances to be made, it was bad faith to the sureties for the
creditors to enter into an arrangemen't with the Butlers that
a portion of the crops should be devoted to another use.
On the other hitid, if there was no such agreement respecting the crops made when the Messrs. Roach assumed their
suretyship and gave their notes and mortgage, the sul)sequent arrangdment with the Butlers was no alteration of the
or iginal contract, and had no effect upon it.
It is vital, then, to a correct decision of the case, to ascertain whethdr there was such an agreement made at the time.
the suretyship was- undertaken,.an agreement to which the
Messrs. Roach were parties. It was averred .in the answer
of Eugene Roach that such an agreement was made between
the complainaints and the .Butlers, but when it was made,
whether at the time when the notes were given or afterwards, is not stated. Nor is it alleged that the sureties were
parties to it, or that they executed their notes and mortgage
in reliance upon it. The answer of the Butlers is substantially the same, though, perhaps, it may reasonably be construed as averring that such an agreement was made between
all the parties when the notes w'ere given. But. assu.ming
that the averment is sufficiently made in both answers, since
it is new matter not responsive to anything in the bill, it
must be sut'lined by proof to be of any avail as a defence.
And we do not find in the record any proof to sustain it.
The only testimony upon the subject isThat of Eugene Roach
aid R. B. Butler, two of the defendants.. Roach testifies
that it was agreed that the cotton crop raised by the Butlers
should be shipped to Summers & Co., and that the proceeds
should be first applied to the payment of' the, notes. But
he does not state when or between whom this agreement
was made. That heis not speaking from his own knowledge of what took place when the notes Were given is certan., for he says hie was not present, and that all his knowl,-edge, ws derived from his brother.. And the testimony of
B. M. .Butlei also utterly fails to e tablish such an agree-

Oct. 1873.]

BANK V. COOPER.
Statement of the case.

meat. In answer to an interroga-tory whether at the time
the notes were made there was any agreement that all the
cotton shipped or to be shipped by him and R. B. Butler
for the year 1867, as well as for subsequent years, was to be
sold and the proceeds thereof applied by the complainants
to the payment or the notes in prcference to any other debts
due by him and 11. B. Bntler, lie said there was such -an
agreement. But in his cross-examination he said the agreement of which he spoke was made in New Orleans on the
19th of February, 1867, after the notes and mortgage were
executed. The evidence, then, wholly fitls to pro.ve the
existence of the agreement made at the time when the suretyship was undertaken, and consequently the subsequent
arrangQment of February 19th, 1867, as well as the deed-of
trust for the crop of 1868, had no efiect upon the liability
of the mortgagors.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

BANK V.

COOPER.

After an assignee in bankruptcy, Aided by a creditor, has twice contested
before the District Court or its referee the claim of a person who has

been allowed to prove his claim, and, after all the evidence which could
then or afterwards be produced, it has been twice decided that the claim

was a valid one, no bill lies in the Circuit Court (either under the general provisions of the Bankrupt Act or under the second sectioi of it,
giving to the Circuit Court a general superintendence and jurisdiction

of all cases and questions arising under the act) against either the
assignee or the person who has beeli allowed to prove his claim, to have.
the order allowing it reversed. Such a bill may be demurred to for
want of equity.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York; the case being thus:
On the 4th of February, 1870, the Troy Wo6llen Company
was adjudged a bankrupt by the District Court for the Northern District of New York, and on the 1ltb of March, 1870,
one Tappan became the assignee. Soon afterwards Cooper,

