TH

,ONTELLO..

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

tations. Thdy insist that .they purchased the ship relying
upon a, representation df-Mr. Higgins, that if they pu.chased
and would settle certain claims of the charterers, there would.
be at least three thousand dollars beyond what wds needed
-to p'ny the bottomry bond, and other claims of his firm.
There is, however, no sufficient proof of such representations. They are 'denied by Mr. Higgins, and the only person who affirms they were made is Mr. Nickerson, the
purchaser himself. And even the testimony of Nickerson
appears to assert only that Higgins expressed an opinion
respecting what would be the result, rather than a positive
assertion of the fact. This is quite an insufficient basis for
an estoppel, and manifestly the opinion was not relied upon.
Nickerson had examined for himself some of the accounts
at least.
This disposes of the case. Adhitting the libellants have
no-lien in admiralty for their fees and commissions, or even
for their disbursements on account of the ship, they had, as
we have said, a right to apply the funds they had in hand,
first to the satisfaction of the debt due them for such fees,
commissions, and disbursements, applying only the remainder to the bond. For the balance unpaid they have the
security of the bottomry lien.
DECREE AFFIRMED, with interest at the fate allowed in
Pennsylvania, and with costs.

THE MONTELLO.
1. The navigability of a stream, for the purpose of bringing it within the
terms C navigable waters of the United States," does not depend upon
the mode by which comnmerce is conlucted upon it, as whether by
steamers, or sailing vessels, or Durham boats, nor upon the ilfliculties
attending navigation; such as those made by falls, ralids, and sandbars, even though these be so great as that while they'last they prevent
the dise of the best means, such as steamboats, for carrying on commerce.

Oct. 1874.]

THE MONTELLO.
Statement of !he case.'

It depends upon the fact whether the river in its natural state is such'as"
that it affords a channel for useful commerce.
2. These doctrines applied to the Fox River, in Wisconsin, a river whose
navigability was originally so much embarrassed by rocks, rapids, &c.,
as that'only Durham-boats could use the stream, but which afterwards,
by canals, locks, and other artificial means was so much improved as
that steamboats could use it freely; the river having, however, never,
in its natural state, been a cjhaannel for useful commerce.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of

Wisconsin.
In the southern part of the State of Wisconsin, about a
mile and a half east of Portage City, and at a point about
equidistant from the eastern and western boundaries of the
State, rises the Fox River. The stream flows in a northeasterly direction, through Lake Winnebago into. Green
Bay, thence into Lake Michigan, so conecthig throughthat lake and lakes -uron, Erie, and Ontario with the river
St. Lawrence, and other great waters having their hydiographic basin on the Atlantic coast, and discharging themselves into the Atlantic Ocean.
In a bend before Portage City sweeps the Wisconsin
River, which, rising in the regions far northwest of the place
just named, before arrivin.g at Portage City runs eastwardly,
and then turning to the west and flowing a certain distance
falls into the Mis§issippi River. In this way a natural watercourse has been always open from the head-waters of the
Mississippi through the Wisconsin River to the spot now
known as Portage City.
Of course when a "portage," or carriage by land, was
made of merchandise from the Wisconsin River at Portage
City to the sources of Fox River, less than two miles east,
the merchandise coming from the head-waters of the Mississippi was on waters whose course was towards the Atlantic
Ocean.
In its natural state, there were, however, in parts of the
Fox River rapids and fails. At Grand Chute theire was a
rock making a fall two feet perpendicular; and below certain rapids known as the. De Pere, tie navigation was

THE

M ONTELLO..

[Sup. Ct.

Statemlnk of the case.

especially difficult There were many other similar though
less difficult p]ices.- All these embarrassed the navigation
of early-days, but they did not destroy nor even much arrest
it. The stream was always used for purposes of trade; including especially the great fur trade, a trade carried on
before-our Revolution, and when French and British were
pursuing their adventurous commerce far into the savage
regions of the Northwest. Smith, the historian of Wisconsin, states* that even so far back as 1718, one of "the great
avenues fi'om the St. Lawrence to the Mississippi was by
way 6f Fox and Wisconsin Rivers." In 1763, Marquette
and Joliet, Hrench explorers of the source of the Mississippi,
followed the line of the two streams mentioned. The stream
was then navigated by long, narrow boats, called Duxham
boats-vesselsfrom seventy to one hundred feet long and
twelve broad, drawing,*when loaded, from two to two and
a half feet of water-which men would push with poles or
propel by oars, or have dragged by horses and nurles; sometimes, in very shallow water, wading alongside and pushing
the boats.onward themselves. At places where progress on
the stream was impracticable the vessel would be unloaded
and a "portage" made, till the navigator had got beyond
the difficult place, and then a reshipment would be made of
the merchandise into some other boat beyond, or into the
same boat, which unloaded, and drawing less water than before, could be got across the place that in a loaded state had
stopped it. Arriving at the very source of the Fox River,
a "portage'" of less than two miles would be made, and the
merchandise'was on the Wisconsin, and thence it floated to
the Mississippi. In May, 1838, a regular line of Durham
boats was advertised to run from Green Bay, near Lake
Michigan, to the portage at the head of the Fox River.
By the Ordinance of 1787,t for the government, of the
Northwest Territory, it was enaefed that"The navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St.
* History of Wisconsin, vol. I, p. 81.

t Article 4.

Oct. 1874.]

THim

MONTfELL0.

Statemefit of thq case.

Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same, shall be common highways, and foreverfree as well to the inhabitants of the
said Territory as to the citizens of the United States, 'and those
of any other States that~may be admitted into the confederacy,
without any tax, impost, or duty therefor."
This clause was substantially enacted in the constitution
of Wisconsin, which provides4 that"The river Mississippi and the navigable waters leading into
the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same, shall be common highways and forever free, as
well to the inhabithnts of the State as to the citizens'of the
United States, without any tax, impost, or'duty therefor."
By the act of Congress of 1846,t passed on the admission
of Wisconsin as a State into the Union, a quantity of land
was granted to the State"For the purpose ofimproving the nhviration of the Fox and
Wisconsin Rivers, in the Territory of Wisconsin, and of constructing the canal to unite the said rivers at or near the portage."
And it was-provided that the"Said rivers, when improved, and the said canal; when fin-ished, shall be and forever remain a public highway for the use
of the government of the United States, free from any toll or
other cbrge vhatever, for the transportation of the mails, or
for any property of the United States, or persons in their service
passing upon or along the same."
The State of Wisconsin accepted the grant, and, pursuant
to the authority and power vested in the State, .acompany
was incorporated by an act approved July 6th, 1853, for the
imprbvement of the Fbx and Wisconsin Rivers. That act
vested in the corporation all the rights and privileges granted
to the State by the act of Co.ngress. And the improvement
company in carrying out the object of its creation, built
dams, locks, and canals in Fox River, from Portage City to
* Article 9, section 1, Revised Statutes of Wisconsin, 1858, pp. 40, 1070.
t 9 Stat. at Large, p. 83.
vOL. xX.

28

THE

MONTELL0.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

below De Pere Rapids. The woi'ks of this company were on
a grand scale, and by them Fox River was changed from its
natural condition to an improved thoroughfare, for the use
of which all boats were, required to pay toll. It became the
property of and was exclusively managed by a corporate
body, with power to demand and receive tolls from all crafts
passing through the locks, not excepting boats enrolled and
licensed, for coasting trade.
In consequence of the acts of Congress, and of the State,
and of the increase of trade from the Northwest, over the
Wisconsin River, across the portage, and upon the Fox
River and the lakes, the Fox River was cleared of the obstructions caused by its rapids, or falls, and the difficult or
impracticable passes were removed by locks, canals, dams,
and other artificial navigation, so that there was now, and
had been for several years, uninterrupted water communication for steam vessels of considerable capacity from the Mississippi to Lake Michigan, and thence to the St. Lawrence,
through the Wisconsin and Fox Rivers; and steamboats had
passed, and were constantly passing, over these rivers with
passengers and freight destined to points and jplaces outside
of the State of Wisconsin.
In this state of things the government libelled the steamer
Montello in admiralty, for non-compliance with certain acts
of Congress making enrolment and license, and certain provisions as to steam valves necessary for all vessels of the
tonnage of which the Montello was, navigating the navigable
waters of the United States. The owners of the steamer
denied that the Fox River was "navigable water" of the
United States, within the act of Congress; and whether it
was so was the question in the case.
The case had been here b1efore,* but the libel was defective and the evidence insufficient to determine the question,
and it was remanded for further proceedings, to enable the
parties by new allegations and evidence to present the exact
character of Fox River as a navigable stream. This was
* 11 Wallace, 414.

THE. MONTELLO.

Oct.. 1874.]

Argument for the government

now done, and there.was, therefore, nothing now in the way
of a correct solution of the inquiry.
The court below-resting its decision on the ground that
before the navigation of the riverwas artificially impi.6ved
there had been numerous obstructions'to a continuous navigation, especially, below the De Pere Rapids-deci.dedthat
the river was not a part of the public navigable wateirs of
the United States, within the doctrine laid down in The
Danicl -Ball,* and The Montello,t knd dismissed the libel.
The United States appealed, and now assigned as ei'ror1. That by the Ordinance of 1787 and subsequent acts of
'Congress, as well as. by the constitution of Wisconsin., the
Fox River was declared and made -part of the publio navigable waters. of the. United .States, and consdquently 'fell
within the doctrine in respect of tl.at class.of waters laid
-down by'thisocourt; and
2. That the Fox Rivertwas a part. of the navigable waterg
of the United States. notwithstanding the fact that its navig'ation was defective ay reason of the falls and rapids, which
had been remedied of late times by artificial navigation.
Mr. G. I. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. C..H. Hill,
Assistant Attbrney-General, for the plainiff in error:
1. Whether a stream constitutes part. of' the navigable
waters of the United States, does not depend upon the question whether artificial improvements ate required iu.order

'to render it navigable. Some of the gretest rivers on" thecontinent, like the St. Lawrence and the Otthwa, are so interrupted by rdpids as to require artificial means to enable
them to be navigated continuously, and the great lakes themselves, by. the employment of artificial means only, form an
uninterrupted line of navigation with the ocean. Where
the natural navigation is the principal one, and the artificial
merely dependent and ancillary theretoi and the natural
stream is in fact navigable within the ordinary acceptation
of the word, then the river forms a part of the navigabre
* 10 Wallace, 557.

"t 11 Id. 411.

THE MONTELLO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the owners of the steamer.

waters of the United States, if, by means of the artificial
navigation, it is practically made so, and interstate commerce is actually'carried on. All the State courts, and they
are numerous, whnch have had occasion to discuss the question of what is a navigable stream have giveni a very broad
and liberal construction to these words. In Wisqonsin this
very river is treated as a navigable river.*
2. If this were not so, the Ordinance of 1787 and the subsequent act of Congress, and the constitution of Wisconsin,
make the Fox River "navigable water of the United States."
2Mr. J. 1. Hauser, contra:
1. What is meant by "navijable waters of the United States P
The first definition of them given by this court was given:
in The Daniel Ball, where the court says:
"Those" rivers must be.regarded as public navigable rivers in
law which are navigable in fact whefi they are used, or are susceptible of being used, in their ORDINARY CONDITION, as highways
for commerce over which trade and travel are or may be conducted in the customary modes of travel on water."
And in the present case, on the former appeal, speaking
of the Fox River, it says:
"It can only be deemed a navigable water of the United
States when it forms by itself, or by its connections with other
waters, a continued highway over which commerce is or may
be carried on with other States or foreign countries, in the customary modes in which such commerce is conducted by water."
The State courts have discussed the question of navigable
waters only as a fact in their own State, and not as relating
to commerce with other States or foreign couiitries. Their
decisions do not apply.
2. Is the Fox River a navigabl water of the United Slates?
The Fox was, in parts, not a navigable stream prior to 1846.
It had numerous rapids and abrupt falls. At Grand Chute
there was a solid rock, niaking a fall of two and.a half feei
*

Harrington v. Edwards, 17 Wisconsin, 686.

Oct. 1874.]

THE MONTELLO.
Argument for the owners of the steamer.

perpendicular. No commerce could be carried up tlhe river
in the ordinary and customary manner, and under n'o circumstances could it be pretended to be a public 'navigable
stream prior toathe act of Congress of August 6th,. 1846.
Exclusive control was granted by that act 'to the Stat6 of
Wisc'onsin, only reserving that it should be a public bighway
for the us6 of the Uuited.-States. The State of Wisconsin,
by an act of its legislature, approved-July 6th, 1853, ceded
all the rights and privileges which the State had obtained
from the United States, to this company.
From 1840 to 1853 the control of the Fox River belonged
to the State of Wisconsin, and since that it has belonged tothe Fox andWisconsin Rivers Improvement Cotupany3 and
was not a public navigable water of the United States. And
after this grant passed into the hands of the improvement
company it became a canal or slack-water navigation, and
comes within the case of Veazie v. Moor,* which decides that
the Penobscot Rivei is not a public navigable riv.er of the
United States, for the reason that it has no navigable connection with the seas, unless made so by artificial or private
means.
If the Fox River is a navigable stream of. the United
States, it would be impossible to conceive of any body of
water that is not or might not become such navigable water.
3. Did Congress by the Ordinance of 1787 intend to include
Fox River ?'.
Certainly not on the ground of its being nuavigable; for
prior to the building of the canal and slack-water navigation the case shows that only Durham boats could at crtain
stages of the water pass up and down the river, and thent
only by unloading at certain places. and lifting the boats
over. the rapids. This court says in The Daniel Ball,,th4t the
water must be navigable in its "ordinary condition,' and in
this case on the former appeal, "It must be water over which'
commerce can be carried on in the customary modes in which
such commerce is conducted by water."
* 14 Howard, 568.

THE MONTELLO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the owners of the steamer.

In its ordinarycondition it was impossible to get steamboats
up or down the river. Even Durham boats could pass up
or down only by being unloaded and lifted over the falls.
This was not the "cuslomary modes" by which commerce
is conducted by water. The true definition of "navigable
'water" of the United States must be water which, in its
ordinary condition, by itself or by its connections with other
waters, forms with them a continual highway over which
commerce is or may be carried on with other States or foreign
countries in vessels which Congress has deemed of suitable
size to be recognized in its commercial and revenue laws.
The literal construction of the Ordinance of 1787. would
include all the navigable waters in the State, for all the lakes
and rivers* of the State empty either in the Mississippi or
St. Lawrence. The Indians in their commerce carried their
boats from lake to lake.
4. Does the subsequent legislation of Congress show that the
waters of the Fox River were included in the Ordinance of 1787 ?
If the Ordinance of 1787 applied to Fox River, then all
subsequent legislation of Congress and of the State of Wisconsin in regard to said river is in violation of said ordinance.
Again, "common highway," as used in the Ordinance of
1787, is used in a broader sense than admiralty jurisdiction,
for while it includes navigable waters it also includes carrying-places between the same, and admiralty jurisdiction has
not yet extended to land as well as navigable water.
While the United States did grant land to aid in improvement of the river, yet the improvement was largely made
by private energy and sacrifice, and the government reserved no rights except as above stated.
If private enterprise makes waters navigable which were
not before navigable, and capable of carrying vessels which
are of sufficient capacity to come within the jurisdiction of
the Federal courts, which before were not navigable by-any
of the ordinary modes of commerce, will the United States
then come in and take jurisdiction and control, especially
where this improvement is wholly within a State, and sub-

Oct. 1874;]

THE MONTELLO.

Opinion of the court.

ject to State law and State taxation? Such a policy would
not be for the best interest of the General and State governments, and would be such a centralization of power in the
Federal government, an'd such an encroachment on the
powers reserved to the States by the Constitution, that this
court will be slow to make such a radical change and to extend the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, that by the same
reasoning the General government would take control of
every trade, manufacture, and enterprise throughout the
country.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This court held in the case of The -DanielBall,* that those
rivers' must be regarded as public navigable rivers in law
which are navigable in -fact. And they are navigable in
fact when they are used, or are susceptible of being used, in
their ordinary condition, as highways for commerce, over
which trade and travel are or may be conducted in the customary modes 'f trade and travel on ivater. And a river is
a navigable water of the United States when it forms by
itself, or by its connection'with other waters, a continued highway over which commerce is, or may be, carried with other
States or foreign countries in the customary modes in which
such commerce is conducted by water.t Apply these tests
to the case in hand, and we think the question must be answered in the affirmative.
The Fox River has its source near Portage City, Wisconsin, and flows, in a northeasterly direction, through Lake
Winnebago into Green Bay, and thence into Lake Michigan,
and by means of a short canal of a mile and a half it is connected at Portage City with the Wisconsin River, which
empties into the Mississippi. From its source to Oshkosh
the river is frequently spoken of as the "Upper Fox." From
Lake Winnebago to. Green Bay it is called the "Lower
Fox." There are several rapids and falls in the.river, but
the obstructions caused by them have been removed by arti"*10 "Wallace, 557.

j" The Montello, 11 Id. 411.

THE, MONTELLO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the courtL

ficial navigation, so that there is now, and has been for several years, uninterrupted water communication for steam
vessels of considerable capacity from the Mississippi to Lake
Michigan, and thence to the St. Lawrence, through the Wisconsin and Fox Rivers; and steamboats have passed, and are
constantly passing, over these rivers with passengers and
freight destined to points and places outside of the State of
Wisconsin.
It is said, however, that although the Fox River may now
be considered a highway for commerce, over which trade
and travel are, or may be, conducted in the ordinary modes
of trade and travel oh water, it was not so in its natural
state, and,. therefore, is not a navigable water of the United
States within the purview of the decisions referred to.
It is true, without the improvements by locks, canals, and
dams, Fox River, through its entire length, could not be
navigated by steamboat6 or sail vessels, but it is equally
true that it formed, in connection with the Wisconsin, one
of the earliest and most important channels pf communication between the Upper Mississippi and the lakes. It was
this route which Mai'quette and Joliet took in 1673 on their
voyage to discover the Mississippi; and the immense fur
trade of the N-orthwest was carried over it for more than a
century.* Smith, in his History of Wisconsin,t says: "At
this time (1718) the three great avenues from the St. Lawrence to the Mississippi were, one by the way of the Fox
and Wisconsin Rivers, one by way of Chicago, and one by
the way of the Mianii of the Lakes, when, after crossing the
portage of three leagues over the summit level, a shallow
stream led into the Wabash and Ohio." It is, therefore, apparent that it was one of the highways referred to 'in the
Ordinance of 1787, and, indeed, among the most favored on
account of the short portage jbetween the two rivers. In
more modern times, and since the settlement of the country ,
and before the improvements resulting in an unbroken naviParkman's Discovery of the Great West, 52 et seg. ; 8 Bancroft's History of the United States, 156, 157.
t Volume 1, page 81.

Oct. 1874.]

Tim.

MONTELLO.

Opinion of the court.

gation were undertaken, a large interstate commerce has
been successfully carried on through this bhannel. This was
-done by means of Durham boats, which were vessels from
seventy to one hundred feet in length, With twelve fbet
beam, and drew when loaded two to two and one-half feet
of water. These boats, propelled by animal power, were
able to navigate the entire length of Fox River, with the
aid of a few portages, and would readily carry a very considerable tonnage.
In process of time, as Wisconsin advanced inwealth and
population, aid had a variety of products to exchange for
the co'nmodities of sister States and foreign nations, Durham boats were found to be inadequate to the wants of the
country, and Congress was appealed to for aid to improve
the navigation of the river, so that steam power could be
used. This aid was granted, and since the river was im.proved commerce is carried over it in one of the usual ways
in which commerce is conducted on the water at the present
day. But commerce is conducted on the water, even at the
present day, through other instrumentalities than boats propelled by steam or wind. And, independently of the Ordinance of 1787, declarilig the "navigable waters" leading
into the Mississi pi and St. Lawrence to be "common highways," the true test of the navigability of a stream does not
depend on the mode by which commerce is, or may be, conducted, nor the difficulties attending navigation. If -this
were so, the public would bje deprived of the use of many of
the large rivers of the country over which rafts of lumber of
great value are constantly taken to market.
It would be a narrow rule to hold that in this country,
unless a river was capable of being navigated by steam or
sail vessels, it could not be treated as a public highway.
The capability of use by the public for purposes of transportation and commerce affords the true. criterion of the
navigability of a river, rather than the extent and marner
of that use. If it be capable in its natural state of being
used for purposes of commerce, no matter in what mode the
commerce may be conducted, it is navigable in fact,'and be-

Tim MONTELLO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

comes in law a public river or highway. Vessels of any
kind that can float upon the water, whether propelled by
animal power, by the wind, or by the agency of steam, are,
or may become, the mode by which a vast commerce can
be conducted, and it would be a mischievous rule that would
exclude either in determining the navigability of a river.
It is not, however, as Chief Justice Shaw said,* "every
small creek in which a fishing skiff or gunning canoe can be
made to float at high water which is deemed navigable, but,
in order to give it the character of a navigable stream, it
must be generally and commonly useful to some purpose of
trade or agriculture."
The learned judge of the court below rested his decision
against the navigability of the Fox River below the De Pere
Rapids chiefly on the ground that there were, before the
river was improved, obstructions to an unbroken navigation.
This is true, and these obstructions rendered the navigation
difficult, and prevented the adoption of the modern agencies
by which commerce is conducted. But with these difficulties in the way commerce was successfully carried on, fbr it
is in proof that the products of other States and countries
were taken up the river in its natural state from Green Bay
to Fort Winnebago, and return cargoes of lead and furs obtained. And the customary mode by which this was done
was Durham boats. As early as May, 1838, a regular line
of these boats was advertised to run from Green Bay to the
Wisconsin portage.t But there were difficulties in the way
of rapid navigation even with Djirham boats, and these difficulties are recognized in the Ordinance of 1787, for not
only were the " navigable waters" declared free, but also
the "carrying-places" between them, that is,places where
boats must be partially or wholly unloaded and their cargoes
carried on land to a greater or less disthnce. Apart from
this, however, the rule laid down by the district judge as a
test of navigability cannot be adopted, for it would exclude
many of the great rivers of the country which were so interrupted by rapids as to require artificial means to enable
*21

Pickering, 344.

t Doty v. Strong, 1 Pinney, 316.

Oct. 1874.]

THE MONTELLO.
Opinion of the court.

them to be navigated without break. Indeed, there are but
few of our fresh-water rivers which did not originally present serious obstructions to an uninterru'pted navigation. In
some cases, like the Fox River, they may be so great. while
they last as to prevent the use of the best instrumentalities
for carrying on commerce, but the vital and essential point
is whether the natural navigation of the river is such that it
affords a channel for useful commerce. If this be so the
river is navigable in fact, although its navigation may be
encompassed with difficulties by reason of natural barriers,
such as rapids and sand-bars.
The views that we have presented on this subject receive
support from the courts of this country that have had occasion to discuss the question of what is a navigable stream.*
From what has been said, it follows that Fox River is
within the rule prescribed by this court in order to- determine whether a river is a navigable water of the United
States. It has always been navigable in fact, and not only
capable of use, but actually used as a highway for commerce,
in the only mode in which commerce could be conducted,
before the navigation of the river was improved. Since this
was done, the valuable trade prosecuted on the river, by the
agency of steam, has become of national importance. And
emptying, as it does, into Green Bay, it forms a continued
highway for interstate commerce. The products of other
States and foreign countries, which arrived at Green Bay
for points in the interior, were formerly sent forward in
Durham boats,, and since the 'completion of the improvements on the river these products are reshipped in a small
class of steamboats. It would be strange, indeed, if this difference in the modes of conducting commerc6, both of
* Moore v. Sanborn, 2 Michigan, 519; Brown v. Chadbourne, 31 Maine,
1; People v. Canal Appraisers, 83 New York, 461 ; Morgan v. King, 35 Id.
459; Flanagan v. Philadelphia, 42 Pennsylvania State, 219; Monongahela
Bridge Co. v. Kirk, 46 Id. 112; Cox v. The State, 8 Blackford, 193; Hogg
1. Zanesville Canal Co., 5 Ohio, 410; Hickok v. Hine, 23 Ohio State, 527;
Jolly v. Terre Haute Bridge Co.j 6 McLean, 237; 'Rowe v. The Granite
Bridge Co., 21 Pickering, 346; Illinois River Packet Co. -0. Peoria Bridge
Co., 38 Illinois, 467; Harrington v. Ed.wards, 17 Wisconsin, 586.

THE MONTELLO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which, at the times they were employed, were adapted to
the necessities of navigation, shoul operate a change upon
the national character of the stream.
Before the Union was formed, and while the Freiieli were
in possession of the territory, the Wisconsin and Fox Rivers
colstitute(d about the only route of trade and travel between
the Upper Mississippi and the great akes. And since the
territory belonged to us this route has been regarded of
national importance. To preserve the national character of
tll the rivers leading into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence,
and to prevent a monopoly of their waters, was the purpose
of the Ordinance of 1787, declaring them to be free to the
public; and so important was the provision of this ordinance
deemed by Congress that it was imposed on Wisconsin as a
condition of admission into the Union.
Congress, also, when the State was admitted, made to it
a grant of lands, in order that the Fox and Wisconsin might
be united by a canal, their navigation improved, and the
rivers made in fact, what nature meant they should be, a
great avenue for trade between the Mississippi and Lake
The grant was accepted, the navigation imMichi gal.
proved, and the canal constructed. These objects were,
however, accomplished byla private corporation chartered
for the purpose, which was allowed to charge tolls as a
source of profit. The exaction of these tolls created dissatisfaction outside of the State, and Congress, in 1870, in response to memorials on the subject of the importance of
these rivers as a channel of commerce between the States,
passed an act authorizing the Gfeneral government to purchase the property, and after it was reimbursed for advances,
to reduce the tolls to the lowest point which should be ascertained to be sufficient to operate the works and keep
them in repair.* Although this legislation was not needed
to establish the navigability of these rivers, it shows the estimate put by Congress upon them as a medium of communication between the lakes and the Upper Mississippi.
16 Stat. at Large, 189.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MORSE.

Statement of the case.

It results from these views that'steamboats navigating the
waters of the Fox River are subject to governmental regulation.
DECREE REVERSED,

and cause remanded for further pro-

ceedings,
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MORSE.
1. The Constitution of the United States secures to .citizcns of another State
than that in which suit is brought an absolute right to remove their
cases into the Federal court, upon compliance with the terms of the
twelfth section of the Judiciary Act.
2. The obstruction to this right imposed by a statute of a State, which enacts"That any fire insurance company, association, or partnership, incorporated
by ororganized under the laws of any other State of the United States, desiring
to trausact any such business as aforesaid by any agent or agents, in this State,
shall first appoint an attorney in this State on whom process of law can be
served, containing an agrpementthat suc)a coinpany will not remove the suit .for
trial into the United States Circuit Court or Federal courts, and file in the ofic
of the secretary of state a writtei instrument, duly signed and sealed, ertifing
such apTontment, which shall continue until another attorney he substituted,"

is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and the laws in
pursuance thereof, and is illegal and void.
S. The agreement of the insurance company, filed in pursuance.of the act,
derives no support from a statute thus unconstitutional and is as void as
it would be had no such statute been passed.
ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin; the case being

thus:
A statute of Wisconsin, passed in 1870,* enacts as follows:
"It shall not be lawful for any fire insurance company, association, or partnership, incorporated by or organized under the
laws of any other State of the United States, or any foreign
government, for any of the purposes specified in this act, directly or indirectly.to take risks or transact any business of in.
1 Taylor's Statutes, page 958, section 22.

