IBASEY

v.

GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

Unwise laws and such as are highly inexpedient and unjust are frequently passed by legislative bodies, but there is
no power vested in a Circuit Court bor in this court, to determine that any law passed by a State legislature is void if
it is not repugnant to their own'constitution nor the Constitution of the United States.
Vague apprehensio'ns seem to be entertained that unless
such a power is claimed and exercised inequitable consequences may result from unnecessary taxation, but in my
judgment there is much more to be dreaded from judicial
decisions which may have the eftect to sanction the fraudulent repudiation of honest debts, than from any statutes
passed by the Stfae to enable municipal corporations to
meet and discharge their just pecuniary obligations.

BASEY ET AL. V. GALLAGHER.
1. Where in an equity case a demurrer is filed to the complaint and the
record does not disclose what disposition was mad'e of it, and an answer
is subsequently filed, upon which the parties proceed to a hearing, it
will be presumed on appeal that the demurrer was abandoned.
2. Although by the organic act of the Territory of MIfontana common-law
and chancery jursdiction is exercised by the same court, and by legislation of the Territory the distinctions between the pleadings and modes
of procedure in comimon-law actions and those in equity suits are abolished, the essential distinction between law and equity is not changed.
The relief which the law affords must be administered through the intervention of a jury, unless a jury be waived; the relief which equity
affords must be applied by the court itself, and all information presented
to guide its action, whether obtained through masters' reports or findings of a jury, is merely advisory.
3. The provision in the statute of Montana of 1867 regulating proceedings
in civil cases declaring "1that an issue of fact shall be tried by a jury,
unless a jury trial is waived," does not require the court in an equity
case to regard the findings of a jury called in the case as conclusive,
though no application to vacate the findings bd made by the parties, if
in its judgment they are not supported by the evidence.
4. In the Pacific States and Territories a right to running waters on the
public lands of the United States for purposes of irrigation may be

Oct. 1874.]

8BASEY V.

GALLAGHER.

Statement of the case.
acquired by prior appropriation, as against parties not having the title
of the government. The right, exercised within reasonable limits, having reference to the condition of the country, and the-necessities of the
community, is entitled to protection. This rule obtains in the Territory
of Montana, and is sanctioned by its legislation.
5. By the act of Congress of July 26th, 1866, which provides '"that whenever by priority of possession rights to the use of water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or other purposes, have vested and accrued,
and the same are recognized and acknowledged by the local customs,
laws, and decisions of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested
rights shall be maintained and protected in the same," the customary
law with respect, to tlhe use of water, which had grown up among occupants of the public land under the peculiar necessities of their condition,
is recognized as valid. That law may be shown by evidence of the local
customs, or by the legislation of the State or Territory, or the decisions
of the courts. The union of the three conditions in any particular case
is not essential to the perfection of the right by priority ; and in case of
custom and a statutory regulation, the latter, as
conflict, between a local
of superior authority, will control.

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana. The case was thus:
The organic act of the Territory just named recognizes
the distinction between the jurisdictions of law and equity,
but requires that proceedings in both be in the same court.
By a statute of the Territory regulating proceedings in
such cases in courts of the Territory, only one form of civil
action is allowed; and itis there enacted that "issues of fact
shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury is waived or a reference ordered," in a way which the statute piovides.
In this state of the law Gallagher and others filed a- bill in
one of the District Courts of the Territory, against Basey,
Stafford, and others, prayingfor an injunction to restrain them
fi:om diverting the water of a streani known as Avalanche
Creek, in the said Territocy, to which they, the plaintifs,
asserted a right by prior appropriation for the purposes of
itigation. They a' 1eged that in the year 1$66 they and
their "predecessors in interest took up for settlement and
cultivation certain farms, designated by them as "ranches,"
on the public lands of the United States near the creek, in
ieagher, in. that Territory; and that they or
the county of M
their predecessors in interest had ever since occupied and
APPE.AL

BASEY V. GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

cultivated the same; that it was necessary to irrigate the
land for its successful cultivation, and to raise grain, hay,
and vegetables; that they accordingly, during that year and
the following spring, constructed, at great labor and ex.pense, a ditch by which they intersected the creek a short
distance from its junction with the Missouri River, and conveyed its water to their farms and used it for irrigation;
that at this time the water was not appropriated by any person, and was subject to appropriation by them; that by their
ditch they appropriated the water to the extent of five hundred inches, according to the measurement'of miners; that
this amount was necessary to the successfui cultivation of
the land, and by means of it they and their predecessors in
interest were enabled to cultivate the fatrms and raise large
and valuable crops of grain, hay, and vegetables.
They further alleged that subsequent to this appropriation
by them, and during the years 1867 and 1870, and the intervening period, the defendants erected dams across the creek
above the head of their ditch and diverted the water of the
stream, and thereby wholly deprived them of its use and enjoyment, preventing their cultivation of the farms and rendbring them useless; that had the water been permitted to
flow, unobstructed by the dams of the defendants, there
would have been a sufficient supply for irrigatiolg and cultivating the farms. They therefore sought the aid of the
court to restrain the defendants from diverting the water,
except so much as might be in excess of the five hundred
inches appropriated by them.
To this complaint the defendants demurre1, on the,
ground;4st, that the cause of action alleged was barred by
the statute. of limitations; and, 2d, that the complaint did
not state a cause of action. The record did not disclose
what.disposition was made of the demurrer.
An answer was subsequently filed which denied the several allegations of the complaint, except the one which
averred the possession by the plaintiffs of their farms.
The record was a very defective one, and presented the
case obscurely. Gathering, however, what could be gath-

Oct. 1874.]

BASEY V. GLLAGHER.
Statement of the case.

ered from its imperfect statements, it would seem that at
the May Torm qf the District Court of the Territory in 1871,
previous to th6 fipal hearing,'which was had at the subsequent July Ternm, a jury was called in the case, to which
certain' qdestions were submitted and its answers taken.
The jury found substantially that parties by the name of
White and Torvais, prior to September' or October, 1866,
'had appropriated the water of the creek to the extent of
thirty-five inches; that these parties, during one of those
months, gave thepaintiffs and their predecessors the right
to connect with their ditch, and to extend and enlarge the
same; -that the plaintiffs and their predecessors commenced
such enlargement during those months, ftnd increased the
capacity of the ditch to two hfindred and fifty inches; that
White and Torvais afterwards, in 1867, sold their waterright and ditch to the defendant, Stafford; that the defendant, Basey, ,ad no interest in privity with the other defendants, and diverted the water for his own use by agreement"
with the plaintiiff, and that neither of the other defendants
had diverted water to the injury of the plaintiffs previous to
the commencement of the action.
Upon .these special findings both parties moved the court
'for, judgment; the defendants, that the complaint be dismissed; the plaintiffs, that a dec'Iee pass in their favor. On
these motions the court heard the whole case 11on the pleadings, evidence, and proceedings therein, and the findings of
the jury," and rendered a decree adjudging that the defendant, Stafford, was !enjitled to'thirty-five inches of the water,
aid that as against the defendants' saving this amount, the
plaintiffs were entitled to two hundued and fifteen inches of
the water, and decreed an injunction against any diversion
of the water by the defendants which vould prevent its flow
to this extent in the stream to the ditch of the plaintiffs.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of ihe Territory, and there the decree was affirmed. From
that affirmance this appeal was taken.
I u rendering the decree, the District Court disregarded a
portion of the findings of the jury and adopted others, and
48
VOL. iX.

BASEY v. GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

this action was approved by the Supreme Court of the Territory, and coiistituted one' of the errors assigned here for
the reversal of its decree.
The correctness or incorrectness of the decree appealed
from, depended perhaps, in part, upon certain statutes.
They were thus: One was an act of Congress of July 26th,
1866,* which enacted as follows:
"SECTION 9. Whenever by priority of possession rights to the
use of water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing or other
purposes, have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized
and acknowledged by the local customs, laws, and decisions of courts,
the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall be maintained and protected in the same. And the right of way for
the construction of ditches and canals for the purposes aforesaid
is hereby acknowledged and confirmed."

The other statutes were Territorial acts. The first was an
act passed on the 12th of January, 1865, entitled "An act to
protect am regulate the irrigationof land in Montana Territory."
The first section of this act thus enacted:
"All persons who claim, own, or hold a posscssory right or
'title to any land, or parcel of land, within the boundary of Mlontana Territory, as defined in the organic act of this Territory,
when those claims are on the bank, margin, or neighborhood of
any stream of water, creek, or river, shall be entitled to the use
of the water of said stream for the purpose of irrigation, and
making said claim available to the full extent of the soil for
agricultural purposes."
The fourth section was thus:
"In case the volume of water in said stream or river shall
not be sufficient to supply the continual wants of the entire
country through which it passes, then the nearest justice of the
peace shall appoint three commissioners, as hereinafter provided,
-whose duty it shall be to apportion, in a just and equttable proportion, a certain amount of said water, upon certain alternate weekly
days, to different localities, as they may in their judgment think best
14 Stat. at Large, 253.

Opt. 1874.]

BASEY V.

GALLAGHER.

Argument fo?-Y appellants.

for the interest of all parties concerned,'andwith a due regard to the
legal rights of all."
In 1870 this act of 1865 was repealed and another act
was passed, making provision for the construction of ditches
and the irrigation of agricultural lands. This enacted in its
second, fifth, and sixth sections as follows:
"SECTiON 2. Any person or persons, corporation or company,
who may have or hold a title or possessory 'right or title to
any agricultural lands within the limits of this Territory, as
defined by the organic act thereof, shall be entitled to the use
and enjoyment of the waters of the streams or creeks in said
Territory for the purposes of irrigation and making said land
available for agricultural. purposes to the full extent of the soil
thereof.
"SECTIoN 5. In all controversies respecting the rights to water
under the provisions of this act the same shall be determined by the
date of the appropriationas respectively made by the partied.
"SEcTION 6. The waters of the streams or creeks of the Territory may be made available to the full extent of the capacity
thereof for irrigating purposes, without regard to deterioration
in quality or diminution in quantity, so that the same do not
materially affect or impair the rights of the prior appropriator,
but in no case shall the same be diverted or turned from the
ditches or canals of' such appropriator, so as to render the same
unavailable."

In 1871 and 1872, when the statutes of Montana were revise(', and a code of laws and practice'was established for
-the Territory, this last act was incorporated into the system
and re-enacted as part of it.*
Mr. Montgomery Blairi for the appellants:
The Supreme Court of the Territory erred in affirming
the decree of the District Court:
1. Because in rendering that decree the District Cour't
disregarded the findings of the jury, and by the laws of tle
Ter'ritory those findings were conclusive upon the court.
* Laws of Montana; Codified Statutes, 1871 and 1872, p. 498.

676,

BASEY

v.

"[S ap.,

-GALLAGHEM.

Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

In the Territory of Montana only one form of action is
allowed, and all distinctions in actions are abolished. And
issues of fact are required to be tried by a jury in all cases,
unless a jury is waived, or a/reference is ordered, as provided for in the act. Abid the jury are made the exclusive
judges of all questions of fact. Now in Taylor v. Person,*
a case from North Carolina, in which the distinction between law and equity is fully recognized, but where a statute
requires just what the Montana statute requires, it has been
adjudged that if the record does-not show that the facts had
been found by a jury, it is error for which the decree will be
reversed.
2. Because the decree proceeds upon the assumption that
the appellees acquired a vested right in the Water in question by being the first appropriators of it.
The law governing this subject'is found in the act of Congress of Jifly 26th, 1866. By the terms of that act the right
in question is made to depend upon the existence of three
several conditions: First, "it must be recognized and acknowledged by the local customs of the Territory ;" second,
by " the (loca!) laws ;" aud, third, "by the decisions of the
courts." .
The fourth section of the act of the Territory of 1865 is
inconsistent with the doctrine of right by prior appropriation, and so Chief Justice Wade held in his separate opinion
in the case of Thorp v. Freed.t It is true that his associatei Knowles, J., differed from'him, and that the case was
decided oil other grounds. In commenting upon the statute
mentioned the Chief Justice says:
"The whole purpose of the statute was to utterly abolish and
annihilate the doctrine of prior appropriation." . . . "If the section does not mean that there shall be an equal distribution
among all the parties concerned in such water, without any regard whatever to the date of appropriation, then I am utterly
unable to comprehend the language used."
* 2 Hawks, 298.

t 1 Montana, 653.

Oct.. 1874.]

BASEY V. GALLAGHER.
Argument for the appellees.

Mr. _R.,
T. MAferrick, contra:
I. The case was a chancery case, and was tried as such,
and the decree is in the usual form of decrees in chancery.
The issues submitted to the jury were so subinitted only*
to aid the chancellor in ascertaining, from the evidence before him, the ultimate facts upon which to rest his decree.
The two jurisdidtions of law and equity in Montana are recognized as separate and distinct, and even though one form
of action prevail, must be ek-ercised as separate and distinct
from each other in all cases, and equitable or legal relief adminiistered according to the rules appertaining to the jurisdictions respectively.
I. The first appropriation of the water of a stream passing
through the public lands of the United States for some beneficial purpose confers the right to the use and. enjoyment of
the water to the extent of the original appropriation.*
In this case there is no riparian owner except the United
States, and the record does not show that either of the parties even occupy along the margin of the stream. The lands
being open to appropriation .the rule of time is the rule of
right, and the first taker is to be protected iAihis entry and
possession. Blackstone says: t
"If a stream be unoccupied I may erect a mill thereon, and
detain the water; yet not so as to injure my neighbor's prio'r
mill, or his meadow, for he hath by his first occupancy acquired
a property in the current."

In Williams v. .Morlandjand in Liggins v. Inge,§ and in the
earlier casei in Massachusetts and Connecticut a similar
principle was announced. Later adjudications in England
establishing a different ddctrine rest upon the fact that the
Irwin v. Phillips, 5 California, 140; Bear River Co. v. The York Mining
Co., 8 Id. 332; Butte Canal Co. v. Vaughn, 11 Id. 152; McDonald v. Bear
River Co., 13 Id. 220; Phnnix Water Co. v. Fletcher, 23 Id. 482; Hill v.
Smith, 27 Id. 476; Smith v. O'Hara, 43 Id. 371 ; Lobdell v. Simpson et al., 2
Nevada, 274; Ophir Mining Co. v. Carpenter, 4 Id. 534; Hobart v. Ford, 6
Id. 80; Dalton v. Bowker, 8 Id. 201.
t 3 Commentaries, 403.
2 Barnewall & Creswell, 913. 7 Bingham, 692.

BASEY v. GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellees.

right to the use of thie water of the stream had never been
detached as property from the ownership of the adjacent soil,
and that such use wag claimed and held only as a ripar:a,
right.
The act of Congress of July 26th, 1866, clearly recognizes
a right to the use of water as independent of any right or
title to land, and assures protection to this right whenever
it has "vested" by "priority of possession," provided the
"local customs, laws, and decisions of courts," recognize
such a right and such a mode of acquiring it.
Congress is here dealing with the public domain.
The question then arises, is the case of the complainant
within the provisions, of the act of Congress of July 26th,
1866 ?
Do the local customs, laws, and decisions of the courts of
Montana recognize the acquisition of a right to the use of
the water of a stream by appropriation, as separate and distinct from the ownership of laud adjacent to the stream, and
is such right fto be determined by the priority of possession
among respective claimants ?
What is the fact as to the local customs, laws, and decisions of Montana, as they affect this question ?
[The counsel here cited and commented upon the laws of
the Territory which are given in the statement of the case;
and contended that they established that "rights to the use
of water for agricultural pur5oses" may be acquired and
become vested by priority of possession.]
The "local customs and decisions of the courts" of the
Territory also recognize and establish a similar rule of
property.
In Thorp v. M-reed, Knowles, J., says:
"Ever since the settlembnt of this Territory it has been the
custom of those who settled themselves upon the public domain
and devoted any part thereof to the purposes of agriculture, to
dig ditches and turn out the water of some stream to irrigate
the same. This right has been generally recognized by our
people. It has been universally conceded that it was a necessity of
agriculturalpursuits. So universal has been this usage that I

•Oct. 1874.]

BASEY V. GALLAGHER.
Opinion of the court.

do not suppose there has been a parcel of land, to the cxtpnt of
one acre, cultivated within the bounds of this Territory that
has not been irrigated by water diverted from some running
stream."

Wade, 0. J., in a separate opinion'in the same ease, denies that any custom exists recogniziug the right to appro-priate water for the purposes of agriculture and .irrigation,
whilst apparently admitting the existence of the custom as
applied to mining and the mineral .lauds of the public domain.
But ifa usage exists recognizing the right to divert and
appropriate water, the purpose for which the appropriation
may be made is immaterial, provided it'be useful or beneficial and not for speculation.*
This riglif has been recognized, too, by the courts. .The
cases referred to show that it has been uniformly recognized
and established in California and Nevada, and the courts of
Montana have, on this subject, followed the decisions of the
courts of those States.t
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the court, as follows:
The record does not disclose what -disposition was made
of the demurrer to the complaint, but as an answer was subsequently filed upon which the parties proceeded to a hearing, the presumption is that it was abandoued.
By the organic act of the Territory, the District Courts
are iuvested with chancery and, common-law jurisdiction.
The,two jurisdictions are exerciahd by the same court, and,
under the legislatio of the Territory, the modes of procedure
up t'o
the trial or hearing are the same whether a legal or
equitable remedy is sought. The suitor, whatever relief he
may ask, is required to state "in ordinary and concise ]an* Ortman et al. v. Dixon, 13 California, 33; Davis v. Gale, 32 Id. 26;
Woolman v.Garringer, 1 Montana, 685.
t- Caruthers v.Pemberton, 1 Montana, 1 1, 118; Tliorp v. Woolman, lb..
171,17.2; Woolman v.Garringer, Ib: 535, 543; Atchison v. Peterson, Ib. 564.

BASEY v. GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

guage" the facts-of his case upon which he ihvokes the
judgment of the court. But the consideration which the
court will give to the questions raised by the pleadings,
when the case is called for trial or hearing, .whether it will
submit them to a jury, or pass upon them without any such
intervention,pmust depend upon fhe jurisdiction which is to
be exercised If the remedy sbught be a legal one, a jury is
essential unless waived by the stiumlation of the parties; but
if the remedy sought be equitable, the court is, not bound to
call a'jury, and if it does call'one, it is only for the purpose
of enlightening its conscience, and nrot to control its judgment. The decree which it must render upon the law and
the facts' must proceed from its own judgment respecting
them, and not from the judgment of others. Sometimes in
the same action both legal and equitable relief may be
sought, as for example, where damages are claimed for a
past diversion of water, and an injunction prayed against its
diversion in the future. Upon the question of damages, a
jury would be required; but upon the propriety of an injunction, the action of the court alone c6uld be invoked.
The Ibrmal distinctions in the pleadings and modes of procedure are abolished; but the essential distinction between
law and equity is not changed. The relief which the law
affords must still be administered through the intervention
of a jury, unless a jury be vaived; the'relief which equity
affords must still be applied by the court itself, and all information presented to guide its action, whether obtained
through masters' reports or findings of a jury, is merely advisory. Ordinarily, where there has been an examination
before a jury of a disputed fact, and a special finding made,
the court will follow it. But whether it does so or not must
depend upon the question whether it is satisfied with the
verdict. This discretion to disregard the findings of the
jury may undoubtedly be qualified by statute; but we do
not find anything in the statute of Montana, regulating proceedings in civil cases, which affects this discretion. That
statute is substantially a copy of the statute of California as
it existed in 1851, and it was frequently held by the Supreme

Oct. 1874.]

BASBY v. GALLA4HER.

681

Opinion of the court.

Court of that State, that.the provision in that act requiring
issues of fact to be triea by'a jury, unless a jury was waived
by the parties, did not requir-e the court below to regard, as
conclusive the findings of a jury in an. equity case, even
.though no application to vacate the. 'findings was made by
the parties, if in its judgment they were not suppol-ted bythe evidence. That-court only held that'the fiuidings, when
not objected to in the court beloiv'and the judge was satisfled with them, could not be questioned for the first time.on.
appeal.?'
The question on the merits in this -case is whether a r0ight
to:running waters on the public lands of the United States
for purposes of irrigation can be acquired by .prior appro-priation, as against parties not having the title of the government. Neither paIty has any title from the Unit~ci States;
no question as to the rights of riparian proprietors'can thereford 'arise. It will he.time enough to consider'tbose ights
when either of the parties has obtained thd patent of the
government.' At present, both parties stand uipon the same
footing; neither can allege' that the other is a, trespasser
against the government without at the same time in-validating his own claim.
In the late case of Atchison v. Peterson,f we .had occasion
to consider the respective rights of-miners to running'wa.ters
on the mineral lands of the public domain ;. and we there.
held that by the custom which had obtained among miners
in the Pacific States and Territories, the party who first subjected the water to ,use, of took the necessary stpp . for that
purpose, was regarded, except as against the government
as the source of title in all controversies.respecting it; that
the do9trines of the common law declaratory of the rights
of riparian propriet6rs were inapplicable, or applicable only
to a limited extent, to the necess.ities of miners, and were
inadequate to their protection; that- the equality of right
Still v. Saunders, 8 California, .287; Goode v. Smith, 13 Id. 81 ; Duff 0.
Fisher, 15 Id. 376. See, also, Koppikus v. State Capitol Commissioners, 16
Id. 248; and Weber v. Marshall, 19 Id. 447.
t.Supra, p. 607.

BASEY

v.

GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

recognized by that law among all the proprietors upon the
same stream, would have been incompatible with any extended diversion of the water by one proprietor, and its conveyance for mining purposes to points from which it could
not be restored to the stream; t-hat the government by its
silent acquiescence had assented to and encouraged the occupa,tion of the public lands for mining; and that he who
first connected his labor with property thus situated and
open to general exploration, did in natural justice, acquire a
better rilght to its use and enjoyment than others who bad
nbt,-given such labor; that.the miners on the public lands
thffoughouq the Pacific States and Territories, by their customs, usages, and regulations, iad recognized the inherent
justice of this, principle, and the principle itself was at an
early period recognized by legislation and enforced by the
courts in those States and Territories, and was finally approved by the legisiation of Congress in 1866. The vieivs
there-expressed and the rulings. made are equally applicable
to the use of water on the public lands for purposes of irrigation. No distinction is made in those States and Territories
by.the custom of miners or settlers, or by the courts, in the
kights of the first appropriator from the use made of'the
water, if the use be a beneficial oae.
In the ciase of Tartar v. The Spring COeek Water and Mining
Company, decided in 1855, the Supreme Court of California
said: "Th e current of decisions of this court go to establish that the policy of this State, as derived from her legisfation, is to permit settlers in all capacities to occupy the
public lands, and by such occupation to acquire the right of
undisturbed enjoyment against all the world but the true
owner. In evidence of. this, acts' have been passed to pro'tect the possession of agricultural lands acquired by mere
occupancy; to license minersi to' provide for the recovery
of mining claims; recognizing canals and ditches which
were known to divert the water of streams from their natur.al ebannels for-mining purposes; and others of like charcter. This.polidy has been extended equally to all pursuits,
and no partiality for one over another has been evinced, ex-

Oct. 1874.]

BASEY

v.

GALLAGHER.

Opinion of the court.

cept in the single case where the rights of the agriculturist
are made to yield to those of the miner where gold is discovered in his land. . . . The policy of the-exception is obvious.
Without it the entire gold region might have been inclosed
in large tracts, under the pretence of agriculture and grazing, and eventually what would have sufficed as a rich bounty
to many thousands would be reduced to the proprietorship
of a few. Aside from this the legislation and acisions
have been uniform in awarding the right of peaceable enjoyment to the first occupant, either of the land or of anything incident to the land."*
Ever since that decision it has been held generally throughout the Pacific States and Territories that the right to water
by prior appropriation for any beneficial purpose is elhtitled
to protection. Water is diverted to propel machinery in
flour-mills and saw-mills, and to irrigate land forxctltivatiofi, as well as to enable miners to work their mining claims;
and in all such cases the right of the first appropriator, exercised within reasonable limits, is respected and enforced.
We say within reasonable limits, for this right to wate'r-like
the right by prior occupancy to mining ground or agricultural land, is not unrestricted. It must be exercised with'
reference to the general condition of the country and the
necessities of the people, and not so as to -teprive 'Ewhole
neighborhood or community of its use and vest an absolute
monopoly in a single individual. The act of Oongrcei--bf
1866 recognizes' the yight -to water by prior appropria'don
for agricultural and manufacturing purposes, as well as for
mining. Its language is: "That whenever by prioriiy of
possession rights to the use of water for mining, agricultural,
manufacturing, or other purposes, have vested and accrued,
and the same are recognized and acknowledged by the local
customs, laws, and decisions of courts, the possessorsi .fid
owners of such vested rights shall be maintained and/protected in the same."
It is very evident that Congress intended, althoug the IanPer Heydenfeldt, J., 5 California, 397.

1084

BAStY

v).

GALLAGHER..

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

guage used is not happy, to recognize as valid the customary
law with respect to the use of water which had grown up,
among the occupants of the publid land under the peculiar
necessities of their condition ; and that law may be shown
by evidence of the local custotns, or by the legislation of the
State or Territory, or the decisions of the courts. The
union of the three conditions in any particular case is not
essential to the perfection of the right by priority; and in
chse of conflict between a loal custom and a statutory regulation, the latter, as of superior authority, must necessarily
control.
,This law was in force when the plaintiffs in this case acquired their right to the waters of Avalanche Creek. There
was also in force an act of the Trritory, passed on the 12th
of January, 1865, to protect 'and'regulate the irrigation of
land, which declared in its first section that all persons who
claimed or held a possessory right or title to any land witbin
the Territory on the bank, margin, or neighborhood of any
stream of water, should be" entitled to the use of the water
of said stream for the purpose of irrigation and making said
claim available to the full extent of the soil for agriculturMl
purposes." Another section provided that in case the volume
of water in the stream was not sufficieht to supply the continual wants of the entire country, through which -itpassed,
an apportionment of the water should be made betiveen different localities by commissioners ap'pointed foik that purpose. This last section has no application to the present
•case, forit is not pretended that there was not Water enough
in the district, where Avalanche Creek flows, to supply the
wants of the -country; -and, .the section itself was repealed
in 1870.*

In January of that year another act was passed by the
legisl~ature of Montana upon the same subject, which rgcognizes the right by prior appropriation of, water for the purposes of irrigation, and declares that all controversies respeeting the rights to water uiider its provisions shall be
.,

* Session Laws of 1865, 3671

Oct. 1874.].

174.]. v. GALLAGHER.
Oct.
BASEY
Opinion of the court.

determined by the date of the appropriation as respectively
made by the parties, and that the water of the, stream'is shall
be made available to their full extent for irrigating purposes,
without regard to deterioration'in quality or diminution in
quantity, "so that the same do not- materially affict or impair the rights of the prior appropriator; but in,no case
shall the same- be diverted or turned from the ditches or
canals of such appropriator so as to render the same inA.vailable."*
Several decisions of the Supreme Court of Montana have
been cite(d to us iecognizing the right by prior apprdpriation.
to water for purposes of mining on the public lands of. the
United States,.and there is no solid eason' for upholding
the right-when the water is thus used, which does not aplly
with the same force when the water is sought on those lands
for any other equally beneficial purpose. In Thorp y. FHed
the subject was very ably discussed by two of the justices
of that court, who differed in opinion upon thequestion in
that case, where both parties had acquired the title of the
government. The disagreement would seem to have arisen
id the 'j)plication of the doctrine. to a case where title had
passed from the government, and not in its application, to a
case where neither- party had acquired that title.. In -the
course of his opinion Mr. Justice Knowles stated that.ever
since the settlement of the Territory it'had been the c.ustom
of those Who, had settled themselves upon the public domai
and devoted any part thereof to the purposes bf agrioultur
to dig ditches and'turn out the wter oft some ktream't5 in
gate the same; that this right had been:4 nerally recognize
by the people of the Territory, and Md,been universally co7
ceded as a necessity of agriculturalpurs7is. "%Souniversal,"
added the just'ce, "has been this usa;e that I do not sup.
pose there has bdeh a parcel of -land, t the extent 6f one
acre, cultivated'witbiii the bounds of this Territory, thait has
not"been irrigated by water.diverted from some running
stream."I
* Session Laws. of 1870,

7.

t I Monatana, 652, 665.

BASEY V.

GALLAGHER.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

We are satisfied that the right claimed by the plaintiffs is
one which, under the customs, laws, and decisions of the
courts of the Territory, and the act of Congress, should be
recognized and protected.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

ERRATUm.
The reader will please to consider what is below as inserted
on page 591, after the last clause of the syllabus of MHrdock v.
City of Memphis, and as paragralh 9 thereof; and also to consider the same thing as inserted in the Index, en page 698, as a
paragraph between the paragraphs 2 and 3 of the title "Jurisdiction," now there.
Where an act of Congress calls into operative, effect a provision in a
deed, in virtue of which provision thus called into effect, a party claims title

and right in such a way that, confessedly, but for the act, no suit would lie,
the party so claiming claims a "1title "7 and "1right " " under ," a statute of
the United States within the meaning of the act of February 5th, 1867; and
if the decision is against the title and right thus set up and claimed, jurisdiction exists here to re-examine.

