Oct. 1874.]

CANNON

v. NEW

ORLEANS.

.577

Statement of the case.

16th, 1836, provides that where property under such circunistances is seized and sold under execution; the rent due
'for a period not exceeding one year shall be paid first out
of the pi ceeds of the sale. This case is within the equity
tute.* The question presented ifi one belonging
of that
law of Pennsylvania. We think it was correctly
to the J
the Circuit Court.
decided
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CANNON V. NEW ORLEANS.
1. An ordinance of the city of New Orleans, which demands of nll stcamboats which shall moor or land in any part of the port of New Orleans
a sum measured by the tonnage of the vessel, is a tonnage tax within
the meaning of the Federal Constitution, and, therefore, void.
2.' It is a tax for the privilege of stopping in the port of New Orleans, and
cannot be justified under the plea that it is intended as a compensation
for the use of wharves built by the city.
3. For the use of wharves, piers, and similar structures, whether owned by
individuals or by the city or other corporation, a reasonable compensatioi' may be charged to the vessel, to be regulated in the interest of the
public by the State legislature or city council.
4. But in the exercise of this right care must be taken that it is not made
to cover a violation of the Federal Constitution, which prohibits the
States to lay any duty of tonnage.
6. Any duty, or tax, or burden imposed under the authority of the States
which is in its essence a contribution claimed for the privilege of arriving end departing from a port of the United States, and which is assessed 'on a vessel according to its carrying capacity, is a violation of
that provision unless the consent of Congress be obtained.
ERROR

to the.Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case being.

thus:
The Constitution of the United States ordains as follows:t
"Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes.
No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty
of tonnAge."
* Sedgwick'i Statutory and Constitutional Law, 296.

t Article 1, H 8, 10.
VOL. XX.

87

CANNON

V.

NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

With these provisions in force as fundamental law, the
city of New Orleans made an ordinance as follows:
"From and after the 1st day of January, 1853, the levee dues
on all steamboats which shall moor or land in any part of the port
of New Orleans shall be fixed as follows: ten cents per ton if in
port not exceeding five days, and five dollprs per day after said
five days shall have expired; provided, that boats arriving and
departing more than once in each week shall .pay only seven
cents per ton each trip."
This ordinance was subsequently amended by the substitution of the words "levee and wbarfhge dues" for the words
"levee dues," and by providing further that "boats making
three trips per week shall pay five cents per ton~each trip."
The length of both shores of the Mississippi embraced
by the port of New Orleans is at least twenty-two miles.
The entire portion of the shore on which wharves had been
built, was at most two miles; less than one-tenth of the
wharved space.
In this state of things and under the ordinance abovementioned, the city had claimed and collected of one Cannonr'
for several years a tax on his steamboat, the IL E Lee; and
claiming it again Cannon filed a petition to enjoin such
further collection, and also to recover back the money already
paid. The ground of his petition was, that under each of
the above-quoted-clauses of the Constitution the ordinances
were void. The Supreme Court of the State held the ordinance valid, and dismissed the petition. Its view was thus
expressed:
"The same points that are made in this case, supported by
the same line of argument as here, were presented in the case
of The First Municipality v. Pease et al.,* and were decided adversely to the position, taken by the plaintiff in this case.
"We think the views there expressed correct.
"The 'levee dues,' under consideration, are not a 'duty on
tonnage,' nor a regulation of or burden on commerce, nor a
duty upon vessels plying between the States, within, the contemplation of the Constitution of the United States, but charges
2 Annual, 540.

Oct.. 1874.]

CANNON V. NEW ORLEANS.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

as compensation for commercial facilities furnished by the
city, and for which, by the common consent of mankind, compensation is paid.* The question of the right to impose such
charges, whether undir the name of wharfage or levee dues,
being judicially determined, the manner and extent of its exercise are left to those' to whom the management of the municipal affairs are intrusted, under their responsibility to those
whom they represent. The aggregate of tharges may possibly
be largely in excess of the actual necesary expenses during one
year, and the very next be insufficient to'meet. This will result from the nature of the river banks, the iction of the river
current, the quality and nature of materials used, the fluctuations of commerce, and many other causes unforeseen and irregular in their operation, and all which show thb-impossibility of
judicial control and regulation of the subject."
From the decree of-disniissar Cannon brought the case
here.
.Messrs. -R. -H.Marr, P. Phillips, and W. W. King, Jbr the
plaintiff in error. [The brief of these gentlemen mentioned,
in the course of its'argnment, that in the year 1843, and in
consequence of a very onerous wharfhge tax imposed by the
city in 1842, the legislature of Louisiana passed an act as
follows:
"From and after the passage of the present act, it shall be
incompetent for the mayor and city council of INew Orleans, or
for either of the municipalities of said city to enact, or enforce, or
execute any law, ordinance, or regulation now enacted, whereby
any tax, duty, impost, or charge of any nature whatsoever, shall
be or is imposed upon goods, produce, wares, and merchandise
'of whatsoever kind or nature, landed in or shipped from the
corporate limits of the said city."
They'further stated that the Supreme Court of the State
decided that after this act this wharfage tax could not be
collected.t]
.Mr. TV. H. Peckham, contra.
Worsley v. The Second Municipality, 9 Robinson, 332; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 235.
j- Worsley v.The Second Municipality, 9 Robinson, 326, note.

CANNON

V. NEW ORLEANS

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error is based upon the proposition that the
city orlinance is in conflict with two clauses of the Constitution of the United States, namely, that which grants to
Congress the right to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among the States, and with the Indian tribes; and
that which forbids the States to levy any duty of tonnage
without the consent of Congress.
We shall only consider the question raised by the latter
clause;
It is argued in support of the validity of the ordinance that
the money collected under it is only a compensation for the
use of the w hai:\'es which are owned by the city, and which
have been built and are kept in repair by the city corporation.
Under the evidence in this case of the condition of the
levee and banks of the Mississippi River within the' limits
of the city, to which the language of the ordinance must be
applied, this contention cannot be s-ustained. It is in proof
that of the twenty miles and more of the levee and banks
of the Mississippi within the city, not more than one-tenth
has any'wharf, and that vessels land at various places where
no such accommodations exist. The language of the ordinance covers landing anywhere within the city limits. The
taxis, therefore, collectible for vessels which land at any point
on the banks of the river, without regard to the existence
of the wharves. The tax is also the same for a vessel which
is moored in any part of the port of New Orleans, whether
she ties up to a wharf or not, or is located at the shore or in
the middle of the river. A tax which is, by its termt, due
from all vessels arriving and stopping in a port, without regard to the place where they may stop, whether it be in, the
channel of the stream, or out in a bay, or latided at a natural
rivbr-bank, cannot be treated as a compensation for the use
of a wharf. This view is additionally enforced if, as stated
by counsel for the plaintiff, in their argument, the Supreme
CQurt of the State has decided that, under the act of '1843

Oct. 1874.]

CANNON V. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the court.

of the Louisiana legislature, no wharfage tax or duty can be
levied or collected by the city.
We are of opinion that upon the face of the ordinance
itself, as applied to the recognized condition of the river and
its banks within-the city, the dues here claimed cannot be.
supported as a compensation for the use of the city's wharves,
but that it'is a tax upon every vessel which stops, either by
landing or mooring, in the waters of the Mississippi River
within the city of New Orleans, for the privilege of so landing or mooring.
In this view of the subject, as the assessment of the tax is
mcasured by the.tonnage of the vessel, it falls directly within
tjhe prohibition of the Constitution, namely, " that no State
shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage." Whatever more general or more limited view- may
be entertained of the true meaning of this clatise, it is perfectly clear that a duty or tax or burden imposed under the
authority of the State, which is, by the law imposing it; to
be measured by the capacity of the vessel, and is in i.ts
essence a contribution claimed for the privilege of arriving
and departing from a port of the United States, is within
the prohibition.
There have been several cases before this court involving
the construction of this provision. The more recent and
well considered of these are The Steamship Compan, v. The
Porlwardens,* The State Ibnnage Tax Cases,t and Peete v.
Morgan.$
In the first of these cases the late Chief Justice, who delivered the opinion, seemed inclined to guard against too
narrow a construction of the clause, lest its spirit and purpose might be evaded. He says, "that in the most obvious
and general sense, it is.true, the words describe a duty proportioned to the tonnage of the vessel; a certain rate on
each ton. But it seems plain that in this restricted sense,
the constitutional provision would not fully accomplish its
intent. The general prohibition against laying duties opi
*- 6 Wallace, 81.

t 12 Id. 2"12.

$19 Id. 581.

.

CANNON'v.

NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

imports or exports would have been ineffectual if it had not
been extended to duties on the ships which serve as the
,vehicles of conveyance. This extenRion was doubtless in.
tended by the prohibition of any duty on tonnage. It was
not only a pro rata tax wh'ich was prohibited, but any duty
on the ship, whether a fixed sum upon its whole tonnage, or
a sum to be ascertained by comparin g the amount of tonnage with the rate of. duty." The other two cases fully sustain the proposition as we have stated it.
In saying this we do not understand that this principle
interposes any hindrance to the recovery from any vessel
landing at a wharf or pier owned by an individual or by a
municipal or other corporation, a just compensation for the
use of such property. It is a doctrine too well settled, and
a practice too common and too essential to the interests of
commerce and navigation to admit of a doubt, that for the
use of such structures, erected by individual enterprise, and
recognized everywhere as private property, a reasonable
compensation can be exacted. And it may be safely admitted also that it is within the power of the State to regulate this compensation, so as to prevent extortion, a power
which is often very properly delegated to the local municipal
authority.
Nor do we see any reason why, when a city or other municipality is the owner of such structures, built by its own
money, to assist vessels landing within its limits in the pursuit of their business, the city should not be allowed to exact
and receive this reasonable compensation as well as individuals. But in the exercise of this right care must be had
that it is not made to cover a violation of the Federal Constitution in the point under consideration.
We are better satisfied with this construction of the Constitution from the fact that this is one of the few limitations
of that instrument on the' power of the States which is not
absolute, but which may be removed wholly or modified by
the coi;sent of Congress.
The cases which have recently come before this court in
which the State by itself or by one of its municipalities has

Oct. 1874.]

CLARK V. IOWA CITY.

Syllabus.

attempted to levy taxes of this character, clearly within the
letter and the spirit of the constitutional prohibition, show
the necessity of a rigid adlierence to the demands of that
instrument. If lhardships arise in the enforcement of this
principle, and the just necessities of a local commerce require a tax which is otherwise forbidden, it is presumed that
Congress would not withhold its assent if properly infbrmed
and its consent requested.
This is a much wiser course, and Congress is a much safer
depositary of the final exercise of this important powxer than
the ill-regulated and overtaxed towns and cities, which are
not likely to look much beyond their own needs and their
own interests.
We are of opinion that the ordinance under which the
levee dues were assessed upon the plaintiff's vessel is unconstitutional and void.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of Louisiana for further proceedings,
IN

CLARK V.

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

IOWA

CITY.

.1. The statute of limitations of Iowa, which bars actions upon all written
contracts within ten years after the cause of action thereon has accrued,
commences to run against actions upon coupons for interest annexed to

municipal bonds in that State, when they have been detached from the
bonds and transferred to parties other than the holders of the bonds,
from the maturity of the coupons respectively.

2. The cases of The City of Kenosha v. Lamson (9 Wallace, 477) and of The
City of Lexington v. Butler (14 Wallace, 282) commented upon and explained.
"3 Coupons for interest when severed from the bonds to which they were
annexed. original4y are negotiable and pass by delivery. They then
cease to be incidents of the bonds, and become independent 6laimis; and
do not lose their validity, if for any cause the bonds are cancelled or
paid before maturity.

