DECISIO.NS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERMS, 1873 AND 1874.

HABICH

v.

FOLGER.

A corporation of Now York was declared to be "dissolved" by one o&fits
courts, acting in professed conformity to a statute of the State; and
receivers of its assets were appointed. A creditor of the corporation residing in another State sued it there, in " trustee process" (foreign attachment), by which"he attached debts due by certain persons (known
in the language of the process as "trustees") to the corporation. The
corporation, the receivers, and the trustees all appeared by attorney;
the trustees answered, and after the corporation and the receivers had
contested the claim of the plaintiff so long as they could, the receivers
withdrew their opposition, and a formal judgment was entered, which
recited that the trustees were charged on their answer.
To a scire facias against the trustees to have execution on this judgment,
the trustees pleaded that the corporation had .been dissolved by a court
of New York, to whose proceedings full faith and credit was due under
the Constitution. The court below decided that the court of New York
had acted in excess of its jurisdiction, and therefore that faith and credit
were not due to its proceedings. This decision being the only error
assigned, thejudgment below was affirmed; this court holding that
whether the judgment below was right or wrong was not a matter
which concerned the trustees; since the fact of their debt and their
obligation to pay it were admitted, and since in the original iuit, where
the corporation, the receivers, and the trustees were parties, judgment,
after full hearing, and with the consent of the receivers, had been entered against the corporation, and the "trustbes charged."
ERROR to the 9upreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts;
the case being thus:
(1)
VOL. XX.

HABICH v. FOLGER.

[Sup. ( k

Statement of the case.

The Revised Statutes of New York authorize the courts
of the State, upon a corporation's mismanaging its affai's
by doing certain things specified by the statutes, and plainly
inconsistent with corporate duty, to. declare it, on the petition of a corporator, dissolved, and to appoint receivers to
take charge of and to distribute its assets.
In Professed execution of the power thus given, the Supreme Court of New York did, on the 2d of February, 1866,
declare that the Columbian Insurance Company, a corporation of the State, had mismanaged its affairs, and the court
by its :judgment declared the said corporation "dissolved"
accordingly. The court at the same time appointed two
citizens of New York, George Osgood and Cyrus Curtis, receivers of its assets.
In this state of things one Folger, resident in Massachusetts, a creditor of the corporation, sued the corporation in
one of the Superior Courts of Massachusetts, in the form of
suit known in that State as "trustee process;" a form apparently like that known in some other States as foreign
attachment; a suit in which a writ issues against the defendant with a clause directing the sheriff to seize or attach
his property, or whatever debts may be due to him, in
the hands of persons named, and to summon them into
court; these persons in Massachusetts being designated as
"trustees," as elsewhere, sometimes, "garnishees."
The
trustees in the present suit were a certain Habich and
others.
The record of that case showed the following facts, viz.:
that the summons by which the suit was commenced was
served on the insurance company in Massachusetts by levying on a chip as its property on the 18th of June, 1866 (a
proceeding of form usual in the "trustee process"); that on
the first Tuesday- of July the corporation entered its appearance by its attorneys, and filed an affidavit of merits; that
on the 30th of July it filed an answer' (signed by Joseph
Nickerson as its attorney) denying that it was a corporation,
and denying the material allegations of the complaint; that

Oct. 1873.],

HABI01

V. FOLGER.

Statement of the case.

the trustees answered admitting a debt; that on the 3d of
October, 1866, Osgood and Curtis (already mentioned as
having been appointed by the court in New York, on its
judgment of dissolution, receivers of the corporation) made
an adverse claim, and filed a petition alleging that' they
were the receivers of the company, setting forth the manner
of their appointment, alleging that all the credits, efhects,
and assets of the said company were vested in them, claiming the effects and credits in the hands of the said supposed
"ti'ustees," and praying to be admitted as parties to the action, this petition being signed by Edward Bangs as attorney;.
that on the 19th of October their prayer was granted, and
that afterwards, in October, 1867, a case agreed on was presented to the court for itsjudgment, the trustee to be charged
on his answer and the plaintiff to have judgment for the
funds in the trustees' hands, if in the opinion of the court a
judgment could be fe'ndered against the corporation; but
if the receivers now claiming had valid title to the funds as
against the plaintiff, notwithstanding the admitted fact of a
debt due him by the company, then judgment to be entered
for the. receivers or claimants.
There -were thus before the, court, the "trustees," the
Columbian Insurance Company, by its attorney Bangs, and
the receivers, by their attorney Nickerson; all, in short, who
were in any manner interested as defendants in the transaction, or entitled to appear in the action.
At the January Term, 1869, the ciourt ordered the following entry to be made, viz.:
"Trustees charged.

Judgment for the plaintiff.
By the court:

G. C.

WILDE,
Oldrk."

At the following April Term a consent was filed by Mr.
Bangs, attorney of the defehdant, that the judgment be entered for the plaintiff for the sum of $3753, damages and

HABICH

v.

[Sup. Ct.

FOLGmt.

Statement of the case.

costs, dated June 10th, 1869.
the following entry:

On the 12th of June is made

"Claimants withdraw.*
E. BANGS,
Attorney.

3. C. DODGE,
(Filed June 12, 1869.)

Attorney for plaintiff."

On the 14th of June a formal judgment for the amount
was rendered for the plaintiff; reciting that the trustees were
charged upon their answer and that the claimants withdrew.
Upon this judgment Folger issued a scirefacias, calling ol
the trustees to show why he, Folger, should not have execution against them. Itabich and the other defendants (not
denying their debt) pleadedThat the judgment recovered by the plaintiff against the
insurance company was " invalid," for that. before the day
on which the judgment was alleged to have been recovered,
to wit, &c., the company had been dissolved by a decree of
the Supreme Court of the State of New York, a copy whereof, duly authenticated, the plea alleged that the defendant
now exhibited.
That by the Constitution of the United States it is provided that full fitith and cre(dit shall be given in each State
to the judicial p'roceedings of every other State, &c.
The Supreme Court of Massachusetts held, upon an examination of the proceedings in the Supreme Court of New
York, and of the statutes on which they purported to proceed, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court, declaring the corporation dissolved, was in excess of-the jurisdiction of the court and therefore entitled to no faith and credit
in Massachusetts as a judicial proceeding; and accordingly
gave judgment for the'plaintiff, the original attaching credIn point of fact there had been another suit-in "1trustee process," and
just like the present one, only that the trustee was a certain J. L. Priest.
That suit was taken as the test suit, and after a vigorous contest in. it, the

court having decided in favor of Folger and against the receivers, opposition
was no longer made in the present one. The claimants withdrew.

Oct. 1873.]

O

.ABId
n v. FOLGER.

Argument for the corporation.

itor.' From that judgment the case was brought here by
Halich and the others, the debtor trustees.
The only record which, strictly speaking, was brought up.
here was the record of this suit on the scire facias; and the.
argument was chiefly on that; but reference having b6en
made all along on both sides to the record of the suit in
which the judgment on which the scire facids issued was
rendered, a certified copy of the record of that original suit
was handed to the court at the close of the argunent, with
the consent of both sides that it should be considered by it
as part of the present case.
Mr.. Dudley Field, for the plaintiff in error:
The only errors relied on are:
That the court erred inholding that the Columbian-Insurance Company was not dissolved, and
That the compainy being dissolved, it had no right to
enter judgment against it or -the trustees.
The courts of Massachusetts had not the right to question
the validity of the judgment of dissolution rendered by the

Supreme Court of New York. That court had jurisdictibn
over the parties and the cause, and the record is, therefore,
conclusive in MNassachusetts.
In New York.this judgment could not have been inquired
into collaterally.
The Supreme Court of New York was authorized to declare the corporation dissolved.
[The learned counsel here went into an examination of
the statutes of New York, and of the proceedings of the
Supreme. Court of that State dissolving the corporation, and
contended that the dissolution was strictly according to the
statute.]
If the corporation was dissolved no action could be maintained against it- A corporation dissolved is like to a person
who is dead,
Mr. J. C. -bodge, contra.

fHABIcH V. FOLGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The record of the seire facias proceedings upon which the
case was argued presents some questions requiring-careful
examination.
If we correctly apprehend the position of the case as stated
in the record in the suit in which judgment was rendered,'and which was handed to the court at the close of the argument, with the consent of both sides that it should he considered by us,-there can be no difficulty in this case in reaching a correct bonclusion.
In his first point the plaintiff in error -says: "The only
errors relied on are that-the court erred in holding that the
Columbian Insurance Comphny was not dissolved, and the
company being dissolved, it had no right to enter judgment
against it or the trustees."
The indedtedness of the plaintiffs in error and their liability to pay the amount of their notes to tlhe defendant in
error, as adjudged by the Massachusetts court, are thus admitted. But it is insisted that in reaching its conclusion,
and as a part of the process of reasoning by which it was
reached, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts erroneously
held that the judgment of the New York court that the insurance company was dissolved was without authority and
was void.
If this be conceded, of what importance is it to the plaintiffs? How, does it concern them whether the judgment dissolving the insurance company was erroneous or whether it
was correct? All they have to do is to pay the amount of
their notes. This it is conceded that they are bound to do,
and this the copy of the record in which the judgment was
rendered shows that the insurince comhpany and its receivers
consented, that it be adjudged they should and must do.
Payment under such circumstances is a complete protection
to them against a claim for repayment by the receivers.upon
a suit brought in the New York couits equally as in the
courts of Massachusetts.
The copy of the record referred to shows that the trustees
(the present plaintiffs in error)-the Columbian Insurance

Oct. 1873.]

HABICH V. FOLGER.

Opinion of the court.

Company, by its attorney, and the receivers, by their attorney, composing all who in any manner were interested in
the transaction or entitled to appear in the action-were
before the court; and that on the 14th of June a formal
judgment for the amount is rendered for the plaintiff, reciting that the trustees are charged upon their answer, and
that the claimants withdrew.
It is impossible to present the case of a judgment which
would be more conclusive upon the corporation, and upon
the receivers, than the case presented. They were parties
in form and in fact. They contested the claim as far as
contest was available, and when farther contest was unavailing the attorney for the receivers conseilted to the entry of
the judgment, in terms withdrew their opposition, and a
formal judgmeot was entered.
If the corporatidn was in existence, so that it could appear
in a suit, it was concluded by the appearance of its attorney.*
If it was not in existence, the receivers, representing the
corporation and its creditors, were bound by the appearance
of their attorneys. In either event the result is the same.
T.his judgment is binding upon the corporation and the
receivers, and in the case of a suit brought by either of them
against the trustees, would be an indisputable bar to their
right of recovery, and this in any State in the Union. The
appearance by authorized attorneys was equivalent to a personal service of process upon those parties.
Without intimating for a moment that an error was made
by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, it is too plain for
discussion that it is immaterial to the plaintiff whether there
was error cr not.
It is a point in which they are not concerned. They have
but to pay their debt, adjudged to be due in a proceeding
which protects them against all the world.t
v. Vanderbilt, 39 Barbour, 140.
- Magoon v. Scales, 9 Wallace, 31. 32; Christmas v. Russell, 5 Id. 290;
Pruner v. United States, 11 Howard, 163; United States v. Yates, 6 Id. 605;
Harris v. Hardeman, 14 Id. 334; Toland v. Sprague, 12 Peters, 800; Chaffee
*Murray

CREIGHTON V.

"3SCRR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Thi s being the only allegation of error, the judgment
must be
AFFIRMED.

CREIGHTON V. ]KERR.
A withdrawal, " without prejudice to the plaintiff," of a general appearance
entered by an attorney, for the defendant, means that the position of
the plaintiff is not to be unfavorably affected by the act of withdrawal ;
that all his rights are to remain as they then stood. Hence where there
has been error in the beginning of an action, as ex. gr., one of foreign
attachment, by reason of want of notice required by statute to be given,
to the defendant, and an attorney appears generally for such defendant,
and so cures the defect, the advantage thus given to the plaintiff is not
taken away by a withdrawal declared to be "without prejudice" to
him. And the court states that it does not intend to intimate Lhat the
result would have been different had the appearance been withdrawn
unconditionally.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado;
the case being thus:

The statutes of Colorado relating to attachments enact:
"SECTION 54. Whenever a plaintiff in any civil action pending
in any court of record in this Territory shall file in the office of
the clerk of the court wherein such cause is pending, an affidavit
showing that the defendant resides out of this Territory, it shall
be the duty of the clerk to cause a notice to be published in
some newspaper, published in the county in which such cause
is pending, for four successive weeks prior to the next term of
the court, which n'otice shall set forth and state the title of the
court in which such action is pending, the nature of the action,
and, if such action shall be brought to recover money, the
amount claimed by the plaintiff, the names of the parties, and
the time when, and the place where, the next term, of court in
which such action i3 pefiding will be held, and that if the defendants shall fail to appear at the term of court, and plead or
demur, judgment shall be entered by default.
v. Hayward, 20 Howard, 208; MacDonogh v. ]lillaudon, 3-Id. 693; Field v.
Gibbs, I Peters's Circuit Court, 155; Com. & R. Bk. v. Slocomb, 14 Peters,

60; Eldred v. Bank, 17 Wallace, 551.

