Oct. 1874.],

]EXPRESS COMPANY V. WARE.
Statement of the case.

jury to a different verdict. This must be understood as the
practice in this court, and such is the requirenent of our
twenty:first rule. By that rule it is ordered that when the
error assigned is to the admission or rejection of evidence,
the specification shall quote the full substance of the evidence offered, or copy the offer as stated in the bill-of exceptions. This is to enable the court to see whether the
evidence offered was material, for it would be idle to reverse
a judgment for the admission or rejection of evidence, that
could have had .no effect upon the verdict.
But for the reception of the statement made by the captain, shortly before the arrival of the boat at Davenport, the
judgment must be reversed.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

EXPRESS COMPANY V. WARE.
1. This court will not examine evidence to ascertain whether a jury was justified. in finding, as it has done, on an issue of fact.
2. Where a statute of limitation enacts that h defendant's absence from the
State will prevent its running, but that "in the case of a foreign corporation, if it hasa managing agent ii the State, service of the writ
may be made on .him," on a question of fact arising in a suit brought
more than five years after the cause of action had accrued, whether
the defendant did or did not have a managing agent for the State prior
to the time when the suit was brought, it is propar to charge that the
time during which the plaintiff was disabled from suing by reason of
defendant having no managing agent in this State is not to be counted
as part of the five years' limitation period.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of N~ebraska;
the case being thus:
The Code of Nebraska bars actions upon contract in five
years. The defendant's absence from the State is not, how-

EXPRESS COMPANY V. WARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ever, to be computed. But in tlie case of a foreign corporation, if it.has a managing agent in the State, service of- the
writ may be made upon such managing agent.*
These provisions of the code being in force, Ware delivered, on the 29th of September, 1864, and during the late
rebellion, to the United States Express Company a quantity
of gold, to be carried by it from Nebraska City to New
York. The company by' its receipt undertook to carry the
gold, but exempted itself from any loss by "the acts of the
enemies of the government, or iusurrections, or any of the
dangers incident to a time of war."
I The company carried the gold on the Hanibal and St.
Joseph Railroad, which crosses the north part of Missouri.
At the time when this gold was delivered, that part of
Missouri was in a higl, state of commotion with the rebellion, rebels being nearly as numerous as loyal persons, and
of equal or greater activity. In the course of the transit
upon the railroad just mentioned, a body of eighty armed
.rebels, on the 3d of October, 1864, fired into the train of
cars, and stopped and robbed it, carrying off this gold.
Hereupon, on the 27th of February, 1870-more than five
years after the loss-Ware sued the express company, servinkg the writ upon a managing agent of it, and alleging that
the route at the time of the transportation was unsafe; that
the express company was, guilty of negligence in carrying
gold on it; and that there was, at the time, a safe and
suitable route across the State of Iowa, which the company
could have afnd dught to have 'used. The company set up
its special contract and an exemption under it.
Evidence was given by both sides as to the safety or danger
of travel on the Hannibal, and St. Joseph'Railroad on and
about the 3d of October, 1870. Trains, it appeared, up to
that date had ber running regularly, but it appeared dqually
that trabks'had.'beepn torn up in places, that a train had been
fired into as it passed and a brakeman killed, and that from
the generally disturbed condition .of the region, there was
* Revised Statutes of Nebraska,, 895, 896, 404.

Oct. 1874.]

EXPRESS COMPANY V. WARE.
Opinion of the court.

with many persons a greater or less degree of fear that trains
would be captured.
Evidence was also given on both sides-on the company's
to show, that at the time of the loss and for some time afterwards, the company did have a "managing agent," and that,
therefore, as suit could have then been brought by a service
on him, the present action not having been brought till the
27th of February, 1870, was barred by the statute of limitations-and on the part of the plaintiff to show that there
was no "managing agent" on whom service could be made
prior to the said 27th of February, when the suit was actually brought.
The court below charged the jury:
"If you find that the defendant had a managing agent within
the State at the time of the loss, then the statute began to run
from that time,.and if it had such agent in the State for the
next five years after the loss, then this action is barred, but
otherwise it is not. In other words, to bar this action the plaintiff must have been- able for five years before suit brought to
have sued the defendant in this State, and compelled it to answer
the suit by a service upon a managing agent therein."
Verdict and judgment-having been given for the plaintiff
the express company brought the case here, assigning for
error1. That the evidence of negligence did not support the
verdict.
2. That the action Was barred by the statute of limitations, and that the court erred in its instruction on that
point.
Mr. J. AI. Woolworth, for the plaintiff,in error; Mr. Clinton
Briggs, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We see no error in the charge, and cannot examine the
evidence to ascertain whether the jury was justiied in find.:
iugas it did upon the issues of fact.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

VOL. XX.

85

