THE CONFISCATION

OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of particular parties before the transaction between White
and Chiles and the military board, and taking others, again,
that came from tile State of Texas, and then drawing my conclu'sions as to what zwere IV/dle and Chiles's bonds."
With these admissions before us it is sufficient to remark
that his testimbny is clearly incompetent.* And, if not so,
it would be iisufficient to maintain, in behalf of the complainant, the issue between the parties. The same remarks
are applicable to the testimony of Judge Paschal. So far as
it affects this case it is liable to the same objections. He
says, among other thitngs: " I was employed by Governor
Pease to prosecute this suit, and caused it to be instituted
in 1868; and judging from a careful examination made in
Texas, and in the Treasury Department here, I feel confident
,that the bonds redeemed for the bank, described by Mr.
Taylor, were a part of t'he bonds which passed through the
hands of White and Chiles, and I judge this from the circumstances which he has stated." This is mere opinion,
founded upon data not disclosed and in part upon the opinion
of-another witness. Further remarks up6n the subject are
unnecessary. There are other detects in the evidence for
the complainant, but it is unnecessary to advert to them.
Altogether it fails wholly to sustain the case made by the
bill. The decree of the court below is, in my opinion, prop-.
erly reversed.

THE CONFISCATION OASES.
[SLIDELL's LAND.]
1. An information in ?-em under the fifth, sixth, and seventh sections of the
Confiscation Act of July 17th; 1862, for the confiscation of 'the real

estate of a person falling within the provisions of those sections-such
information not being in any sense a criminal proceeding-is not, after
default made and entered, and after a final judgment of ondemnation,

to be held fatally defective because it has averred that the property
* Armstrong v. Boylan, 1 Southard, 76;

stock, 514.

Morehouse v. Mathews, 2 Corn-

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFISCATION CASES.
Statement of the case.

2.

8.

4.
5.

6.

7.

seized belonged to some one who was one d another of the persons referred to in the fifth and sixth sections of the act (thus making its allealternative), and has not averred it otherwise.
gations in tile
When an information avers that on a day named a seizure was, made
by th9 marshal, under written authority given him by the district attorney, in compliance with instructions issued to him by the AttorneyGeneral of the United States, by virtue of the act of Conqress of July
17th, 1862 (the Confiscation Act above mentioned); and when, to a citation or monition founded on the information, default has been made,
it will, after such final judgment and condemnation, be presumed that
the requirements of the statute (which direct apparently that a seizure
be made prior to filing the information, and that this seizure be by order
of the Presidentof the United States) have been complied with.
When an information under the said act, filed in the District Court, is
really in common-law form, and the proceeding has the substance and
all the requisites of a common-law proceeding, the fact that the information is entitled ,"a libel " of information, and that the warrant and
citation is called a "monition," does not convert it into a proceeding
on the admiralty side of the court.
What amounts to a sufficient service of process under the said act.
The fact that the warrant, citation, and, monition in the District Court
was not signed by the clerk of the court is unimportant, it having
been attested by the judge, sealed with the seal of the court, and signed
by the deputy clerk.
Where, on an information under the said act, the information alleging
that the property belongs to A., and that it is liable to forfeiture under
the act-all allegations being in form-the court has proceeded, as the
act directs it to do after default, to hear and determine the case, and,
only after such hearing and consideration, condemns the property, it
must be presumed that the property belonged to a person engaged in
the rebellion, or one who had given aid and comfort thereto.
The President's proclamations of amnesty in the year 1868 did not
amount to a repeal of the Confiscation Act.

'ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
On the 17th of July, 1862, Congress passed an act entitled
"An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and
for other purposes."*
. The act contains fourteen sections. The first prescribes
the punishment for treason; punishing it with death, or, in
* 12 Stat. at Large, 689.

94

THE CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the discretion of the court, with imprisonment and fine, and
liberating the offender's slaves.
The second provides for the punishment of the offence of
inciting, setting on foot, or engaging in any rebellion or insurrection against the authority of the United States or the
laws thereof, or engaging in or giving aid and comfort to"
the rebellion then existing.
The third declares that parties guilty of either of the
offences thus described, shall be forever-incapable and disqualified to hold any office under the United States.
The fourth provides that the. act shall not affect the prosecution, conviction, or punishment of persons guilty of treason
before the passage of the act, unless such'persons are convicted undei the act itself.
The fifth section enacts:
"That to insure the speedy termination of the present rebellion, it shall be the duty of the President of the United States to
cause the seizure of all the estate and property, money, stocks,
credits, and effects of the persons hereinafter named in this
section, and to apply and use the same, and the proceeds
thereof, for the support of the army of the United States, that
is to say:
"First. Of any person hereafter acting as an officer of the
army or navy of the rebels, in arms against the government df
the United States.
" Secondly. Of any person hereafter acting as President, VicePresident, member of Congress, judge of any court, cabinet
officer, foreign minister, commissioner, or consul of the so-called
Confederatd States of America.
"Thirdly. Of any person acting fts governor of a State, member of a convention or legislature, or judge of any court of any
of the so-called Confederate States of America.
"Fourthly. Of any person who having held an office of honor,
trust, or profit in the United States, shall hereafter hold an pffice
in the so-called Confederate States of America.
"Fiftdy. Of any personhereafter holding any office or agency
under the government of the so-called Confederate States of
America, or-under any-of the severalStates of the said Confederacy, or the laws thereof, whether such office or agency.be

Oct. 1873.]

THE

CONFISCATIgN

CASES.

Statement of the case.

national, State, or municipal in its name or character: Provided,
That the persons, thirdly, fourthly, and fifthly, above described,
shall have accepted their appointment or electioni since the. date
of the pr6tended ordihance of secession of the State, or shall
have taken an oath of allegiance to, or to support the cons'titution of the so-called Confederate States.
"Sixthly. Of any person who, owning property in any loyal
State or Territory of the United State , or in the District of
Columbia, shall hereafter assist and give aid and comfort to such
rebellion; and all sales, transfers, or conveyances of any such
property, shall be null and void; and it shall be a sufficient bar
to any suit brought by such person for the possession or the use
of such property, or any of it, to allege and prove thtt he is one
of the persons described in this section."
The sixth section makes it the duty of the President to
seize and use as afbresaid all the estate, property, moneys,
stocks, and credits of persons within any State or Territory
of the United States, other than those named in the fifth
section, who, being engaged in irmed rebellion, or aiding
and abetting the same, shall not, within sixty days after
public warning anid proclamation duly made by the Presiden. of the United States, cease to aid, countenance, and
abet such rebellion, and return to their allegiance to the
United States.
The seventh section provides:
"That to secure the condemnation and sale of any of such
property, after the same shall have been seized, so that it may be
made available for the purpose aforesaid, proceedings in ren
shall be instituted in the name of the United States in any District Court thereof, or in any Territorial court, or in the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia, within which
the property above described, or any part thereof, may be found,
or into which the same, if movable, may first be brought, which
proceedings shall conform, as nearly as may be, to proceedings in
admiralty or revenue cases, and ifsaid property, whether real or
personal, shall be found to have belonged to a person engaged in
rebellion, 'or who has given aid or comfort thereto, the same
shall be condemned as enemy's property, and become the property of the United States, and may be disposed of as the court

THE

CONFISCATION

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

shall decree, and the proceeds thereof paid into the treasury of
the United States, for the purposes aforesaid."
The eighth section authorizes the said courts to make such
orders, and establish such forms of decrees of sale, and direct
such deeds and conveyances to be executed, where real estate
shall be the subject of sale, as shall fitly and efficiently effect
the puroposes of the act, and vest in the purchasers of the
property good and valid titles.
The thirteenth section authorizes the President, at any
time thereafter, by proclamation, to extend to persons who
may have participated in th'e existing rebellion, pardon and
amnesty, with such exceptions, and at such time and on
such conditions, as he may deem expedient.
The fourteenth section gives the courts aforesaid full
power to institute proceedings, make orders and decrees,
issue process, and do all other things to carry the act into
efiect.
In pursuance of this act, the United States, on the 15th
of September, 1863, filed what it entitled a "libel" of information, but what in form and substance was an information,
in the District Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, for the condemnation and forfeiture of certain
real property, to wit, eight hundred and forty-four lots and
ten sqpares of ground in New Orleans, all described in the
information. One of the averments of the information was
that the lots and squares bad, on the 15th of August, 1863,
been seized by the marshal, in compliance with written instructions issued by the Attorney-General of the United
States to the district attorney thereof, by virtue of the act of
Congress of July, 1862, the act above quoted, and that they
belonged to John Slidell. It was not, however, said in
terms that the-seizure was made by order of the President
of the United Stat~s. Other averments were the following:
"5th. That the said John Slidell, subsequently to said 17th
day of July, in the year of our Lord 1862, did act as an officer
of the army or navy of the rebels in arms against the govern-

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFISCATION *CASES.

Statement of the case.

ment of the United States, OR as a member of Congress, oR as a
judge of a court, oR as a cabinet officer, oR as a.foreign minister,
OR as a commissioner, OR as a consul of the so-called Confederate
States of America; oa that while owning property in a loyal
State or Territory of the United States, or the District of
Columbia, he did give aid and comfort to the rebellion against
the United States, and did assist such rebellion.
"6th. That the said John Slidell, subsequently to said 17th
day of July, in the year of our Lord 1862, did act as governor
of a State, OR as a member of a convention or legislature, OR as
judge of a court of one of the so-called Confederate States of
America, to wit, the State of Louisiana, oR did-hold an office in
the so-called Confederate States of America , after having held
an office of trust or profit in the United States; oR did hold an
office or agency under the government of the so-called Confederate States of America, oa nuder one of the States thereof,
said office being national. State, or municipal in its name and
character, which said office or agency he accepted after the date
of the pretended ordinance of secession of the State of Louisiana; that he did take an oath of allegiance to, or to support
the constitution of the so-called Confederate States.
"7th. That the said John Slidell, subsequently to said 17th
day of July, in the year of our Lord 1862, within a State or
'Territory of the United States, was engaged in armed rebellion
against the government of the United States, and did not,
within sixty days after public warning and proclamation duly
given and made by the President of the United States, on the
25th day of July, in the year of our Lord 1862, cease to aid,
countenance, and abet such rebellion, and return to his allegiance to the United States.
"8th. That the said John Slidell, subsequently to said 17th
day of July, in the year of our Lord 1862, within a State or
Territory of the United States, was engaged in aiding and abetting an armed rebellion against the'government of the United
States, and did not, within sixty days after public warning and
proclamation duly given and made on the 25th day of July, in
the year of our Lord 1862, by the President of the United
* States, cease to aitl, countenance, and abet such rebellion, and
return to his allegiance to the United States."
On the presentation of the libel of information the Dis7
VOL. Xx.

98

THE CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

trict Court directed a warrant to issue to the marshal, commanding him to seize the property described, and to cite
and admonish the owner, or owners, and all other peirons
having, or pretending to have, any right, title, or interest in
or to the same, to appear before the court on or before the
third Monday from the service thereof, to show cause, if any
they had, why the property should not be condemned and
sold according to the prayers of the libellants.
The " order of publication," made September 15th, 1863,
Ordered, That notice be given to the owner and owners of
said property and real estate, and all persons interested or claiming an interest therein, to appear and answer this information
on the 5th day of October, 1863, and show cause, if any they
have, why said property and real estate, and the right, title,
and interest therein of the said John Slidell should not be condemned and sold according to law; and that notice be given by
posting a copy of this order upon the front door of the courthouse in the district, and by publication in the Bra newspaper
twice a week previous to said 5th day of October, A.D. 1863,
the first publication to be on or before 19th instant."
The marshal, on the 3d of October, returned:
"Received, 16th September, 1863, and on the same day, in
obedience to the within order of seizure, seized and took into my
possession the within described property, posted copies of the
warrant, libel, and judge's order on the door of the court-house,
published monition in the Bra, a newspaper printed and published in New Orleans, on the 18th, 23d, 26th, 30th September,
3d October, 1863, returnable 5th October, 1863."
The warrant, citation, and monition was signed by the
deputy clerk (not by the clerk.), and was attested by the signature of the judge and the seal of-the court.
On the 18th of April, 1864, after due monition and proclamation, no claim or defenee having been interposed, a default Iwas
entered, and the information was adjudged and taken pro
confesso. Depositions were then taken and filed, and on the
18th of March, 1865, after consideration of the law and the
evidence, the District Court adjudged and decreed a con-

Oct. 1873.]

THE

ONFISCATION

OASES.

Statement of the case.

deniation and forfeiture of the property to the United
States; there having been, as the reader will understand
without its being said, no jury trial in the case. The exact
language of the decree, after its recital, was:
"That the eight hundred and forty-four lots and ten squares
of ground, with all the buildings and improvements thereon,
property of John Slidell, and fully described in the libel of information onfile, be, and the same are hereby. condemned as forfeited
to the United States."
Subsequently, a veuidilioni exponas was issued, under which
portions of the property were sold. The money produced,
it was said at the bar, was yet in the registry.
On the 17th of March, 1870, the case was removed to the
Circuit Court by writ of error, where the judgment of the
District Court was reversed and the libel of information'was
ordered to be dismissed. The sales, however, were confirmed.
That court said:
"The information is a remarkable specimen of loose pleading
-And uncertain statement. From' the allegation in the fifth article no man can tell what John Slidell did. The next article
is of the same ambiguous and unconsequential nature. The extreme ambiguity of the charges in it is something more than a
matter of form; it amounts to a substantial defect. There is,
in truth, no charge at all. There is no charge that Slidell acted
as a foreign minister or the confederacy. The allegation is that
he ei'ther did that or something else; but we are not informed
what. If the defect were one of form it might be amended;
but being substantial, it seems to me it is fatal.
"The other articles of the information do. not save it. The
same ambiguity is kept up in.thd sqventh and eighth articles as
in the previous ones, but they do not set forth any of the offences
which in the statute are made the basis or'cause of confiscati6n.
They are evidefitly mednl to be assigned under the sixth section
of the act. But that section refers to persons who in any State
or-Territory of the United States, other than those named as
aforesaid, were engaged in the rebellion. Now, the States named,
as aforesaid, were the loyal States, which had just been named

THE CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ct.",

Statement of the case.

in the last clause of the fifth section. Therefore, the States or
Territories, other than those, were the disloyal States or rebellious States. So that the sixth section of the act only refers to
persons who within any disloyal or rebellious States or Terri"tory were engaged in the rebellion.
"Yet the seventh article of the information merely alleges
that Slidell, within a State or Te'rritory of the United States,
was engaged in rebellion. It does not make a charge within
the statute.
"The whole information, therefore, is substantially defective,
and the judgment must be reversed."
From this action of the Circuit Court the case was brought
here.
It is proper here to refer to certain proclamations relied
on in support of the decree of that court.
On the 4th of July, 1868, the President, in pursuance of
authority given to him by Congress, issued his proclamation.* After preamble reciting the then condition of things,
'it said:
"And whereas it is believed that amnesty and pardon will
tend to secure a complete and universal establishment and prevalence of municipal law and order in conformity with the Constitution of the United States, and to remove all appearances or
presumptions of a retaliatory or vindictive policy on the part of
the government, attended by unnecessary disqualifications, pains,
penalties, confiscati ons, and disfranchisements, and on the contrary to promote and procure complete fraternal reconciliation
among the whole people, with due submission to the Constitution and laws. "Now, therefore, I hereby.proclaim and declare unconditionally and without reservation to all and to every person who
directly or indirectly participated in the late insurrection or
rebellion, except such person or persons as may be under presentment, or indictment in any court of the United States having
competent jurisdiction, upon a charge of treason or other felony,
a full pardon and amnesty for the offence of treason against the
United States, or of adhering to their enemies during the late
* Appendix No. 6, Stat. at Large, ]868.

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFISCATION CASES.

Argument against the confiscation.

civil war, with restoration of all rights of property except as to
slaves, and except also as to any property of which any person
may have been legally divested under the laws of the United
States."
On the 25th of December, 1868, another proclamation was
made, relinquishing all previous reservations and exceptions,
proclaiming and declaring unconditionally and without reservation to all and every person who directly or indirectly
participated in the late insurrection or rebellion a full pardon and amnesty for the offence of treason against the United
States, or of adhering to th-eir enemies during the late civil
war, with restoration of all rights, privileges, and immunities under the Constitution, and the laws which have been
made iu pursuance thereof.
Mr. Thomas Allen Clarke, against the decree of confiscation:
1. The District Court was withoutjurisdiction. The jurisdiction established by the Confiscation Act is special. It does
not enlarge the admiralty and revenue jurisdiction. It only
refers, to the mode of procedure therein as that to be observed. A limited jurisdiction is given to this court. It
had no such jurisdiction before. Its powers in this regard
are the same as and no greater than such powers would be
if a new court had been created to exercise the jurisdiction.
2. No property is within the seventh section unless it have been
seized previously to the filing of the information. There is nothing like such a seizure in this case.
Further. Such previous seizure must be made by order
of the President of the United States. The libel avers that
the district attorney, as directed by the Attorney-General,
caused the seizure. This is not tantamount to an order from
the President. The averment should have been that the
President had caused the seizure, and this could have been established by proof of seizure thr6ugh the intermediate directions. The autho.ity of seizure is intrusted to the President.
He alone can exercise that authority.' Ri's will must be manifested. This court has repeatedly determined that the authority isderived from the war powers which Congress pos-

THE

CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the confiscation

sesses, and has intrusted to him. In The Sea Lion,* Congress
authorized the President to license certain traffic with the
enemy. The various officers, army, navy, and treasury,
sanctioned the trade, but the court determined that their
acts were not and could not be within the warrant of the
act of Congress. "The President only could grant such a
license." "The action of his subordinates was not presumable as by his authority. Neither in the duties or authority
of the Attorney-General is there any such relation to the
President as would authorize him to act as the organ of the
President in reference to seizures. On the contrary,'it is
inferable from the fact that the seizure is a war seizure, that
the officers charged with the subordinate executive power in
matters of war would be the persons charged with the seizure, rather than a peace officer.
8. The proceedli)gswere on the admiralty instead of the commonlaw side of the court. The proceedings commenced by a libel
of information, not by an information. The warrant and citation is called a monition. The witnesses were examined out
of court; and, greatest of all, the case was tried by the judge
without the presence of a jury. This sort of mistake is one
which has been made many times under the Confiscation
Act, both in Louisiaiiat and elsewhere.1 But wherever
made it has been fatal; as the cases to which we refer in
illustration of the fact, themselves show.
4. There was no service of process. The District Court
ordered "that notice be given by posting a copy of this
order upon the front door of the court-house in this district,
and by publication in the Era newspaper, twice a week previous to said 5th day of October, A.D. 1863, the first publication before 19th instant." - All the service made of this
order was by posting copies of the order on the door of the
court-house. This was no service or substituted service.
* 5 Wallace, 630; and see the Ouachita Cotton Case, 6 Id. 521; and Coppell v. Hall, 7 Id. 542.
t See the case of the Union Insurance Company, the Armstrong Foundry, the St. Louis Foundry, 6 Wallace, 759, et seq.
I See United States v. Hart, Ib. 770; Mforris Collier, 8 Id. 508.

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFISCATION OASES.
Argument against the confiscation.

5. The libel qf information was informal. It contained no
charge against Slidell. We iterate and invoke to our benefit
as unanswerable in'this matter what is said by the Circuit
Court. The law has long been settled, from the time of
Sergeant Hawkins, and before, that charges in the disjunctive are erroneous, and do not authorize judgment on
either. '*
Still f6rther. The'twenty-second admiralty rule ordains
that"All informations and libels of information upon seizures for
breach of.the revenue, navigation, or other laws of the United
States, . . . shall aver the same to be contrary to the form of
the statute or statutes of the United Stateg in such case provided."
The absence of this avermentthas, upon error, been determined to be fatal both in indictments and informations.t
6. The warrant, citation, aizd monition were not signed by.the
clerk of the court, who alone was the proper person to signi
them.
7. There is no finding that the property was Slidell's, nor the
property of any one liable to the penalty of the Coifiseation
Act.
Notwithstanding the default, it was the duty of the court
to "proceed to hear \nd 'determine the case according to
law,.as is directed by the 89th section of the act of March
2d, 1799,T respecting forfeitures incurred under that act."
The rule in existence at the time of the passage must be
regarded as embraced in effect in the statute of 1862.
8. The proclamationsof 1868 effect a repeal of the Coifiscation
Act. They restore all rights of property. Proceedings hostile
,to any of the pai'ties engaged in the late civil war would be
in violation of the spirit and letter of the proclamations. The
war' has ceased. Further action "to insure t!ie speedy ter* 2 Hawkins's Pleas.of the Crown, chapter 25,
1 Bailey, 144.
t 2 Hawkins's Pleas of the Crown, chapter 25,
t 1 Stat. at Large, 696.

58; State P. O'Bannon,
116; chapter 26,

18.

THE GONFIScATION

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mination of the (then) present rebellion," is not required.
The army is no longer arrayed upon a war footing, and the
proceeds of property of the offenders is no longer needed
for such a use.
The cases of Yeaton v. The United States,'. and United States
v. .'reston,t determine that the repeal of the law pending an
appeal leaves nothing to operate upon, and that the decree
must be reversed.
In this case the money produced by the sales is in the
registry.
Mr. C. 1. Hill, Assistant Attorneil-General,contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the information
was insufficient; that it did not aver distinctly and separately what John Slidell had done; that it, in fact, made no
charge at all against him, and, therefore, that it was substantially defective. In this opinion we cannot concur. As
was said in .Miller v. The United States,- the proceedings directed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh sections of the Confiscation Act are proceedings in ren, and they are required to
confbrin, as nearly as may be, to proceedings in admiralty
or revenue cases. They are in no sense criminal proceedings, and they are not governed by the rules that prevail in
respect to indictments or criminal informations. It may be
concede' that an indictment or a criminal information which
charges the person accused, in the disjunctive, with being
guilty of one or of another of several offences, would be destitute of the necessary certainty, and would be wholly insuf
ficient. It would be so for two reasons. It would not give
the accused definite noti~e of the oflence charged, and thus
enable him to defend himself, and neither a conviction nor
an acquittal could be pleaded in bar to a subsequent prosecution fbr one of the several offences. But in proceedings
against real or personal property to obtain a decree of con*5

0ranch, 283.

t3

:Peters, 57.

: 11 Wallace, 2G8.

'Oct. 1873.]

TaE CONFISCATION OASES.
Opinion of the court.

demuation and forfeiture under the Confiscation A&ct, liability of the property scized to confication is alone the
subject of inquiry. No judgment is possible against any
person. The enactment of Congress was that property belonging to any one embraced within ' several classes of persons should be subject to seizure and condemnafion. Persons were referred to only to identify the property. No.t all
enemies' property was made confiscable; oily such as was
designated by the act, and reference to' th ownership was
the mode selected for designating that which wis made
liable to confiscation. If the propeity belonged to a person
who had filled either of the offices specif ed, or who had
.done any of the acts mentioned in the fifth, sixth, or seventh
articles of the information, it was the property 1which the
act had in view. The United States had, tbeief.re, only to
aver and prove that the lots and squares seized Lelonged to
some one who was one or another of the personis referred
to in the fifth or sixth sections of the act of Congt:es§. In
either alternative the property was made subject tb .onfiscation. It may be the information might have bhedi more
artificially drawn, and that if the owner had appeared in
answer to the citation he might have interposed succssfully
a special demurrer. But after dethult was made and eutered, and after a final judgment of condeninatian,,fitults in
the mode of pleading, mere fbrmal f4ults, can l)e8f no importance. They cannot have injured any one.' If the information 'set forth, though informally, a substanil right
of action, it was'sufficient, and the judgment cannot be dis.turbed because of such faults. And that it did .in'this particular cannot be questioned, for if the ownership of the
property Nas in a person embraced in either class mentioned
in the fifth and sixth sections. 6f the act (no matter which
class), it was liable to confiscation. This the information
averred. It pursued the words' of the law, and that in an
admiralty or a revenu6 case is all that is required. In the
case of The Emily and the Caroline,* which was a case where
9 Wheaton, 881.

THE CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

the libel described the offence in the alternative, pursuing
the words of the law, alleging that the vessel was filled out
-within a port of the Uuited States, or caused to be sailed from
a port within the United States, for the purpose of carrying
on trade or traffic in slaves, the -same objection was raised
which has been raised in this case, namely, that the charge
was-ini the alternative. But it was overruled. The court
admitted that fitting out and causing to sail were distinct
offences, but denied that charging them in the alternative
was exceptioiable, it was said that in "admiralty proceedings a libel in the nature of an information does not require
all the forma'lity and technical precision of an indictment at
coinmon law. If the allegations Are such as plainly and distinctly to mark the ofence, it is all that is necessary: And
where it is founded upon a statute, it is sufficient if it pursues the words of the law." Reference was then made with
approbation to a note of Judge Story, in the beginning of
7th Cranch, to the case of -The Caroline,* in which it was
said the court did not mean to decide that stating the charge
in th e alternative would not have been sufficient if each
alternative had constituted an offence for which the vessel
would have been forfeited. The court then added these observations: "It is said this mode of alleging two separate
and distitict offences leaves it wholly uncertain to which of
the accusations the defence is to be directed. This objection, if entitled to consideration, would apply equally to an
information laying each offence in a separate count," and
they concluded that the" objection, if available at all, must
go to the full length ot limiting every information to a
single offence, which they thought was not required by any
p'rinciple ofjustice or sanctioned by any rule of practice applicable to admiralty proceedings. The same doctrine was
asserted by Chief Justice Marshall in Jacob v. The United
Slates.t So in Parsons on Shipping and Admiralty,j the
author; in view of the authorities, gives his opinion'that a
libellant may state his case in the- alternative. So in Cro~s
" 7 Crinch,.496.
1 Vol. 2, p.-383, edition of 1869.

t 1 Brockinbrough, 520.

Oct. 1873.]

OT

]

CONFISCATION

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

v. The United States,* Judge Story remarked that "in proceedings in admiralty the same strictness ,is not required as
in proceedings in common-law, courts. And where the
seizure is on land," said he, "although the proceedings
would seem to be analogous to informations in the Exchequer, yet I do not kno., that in our courts the rigid
principles of the common law applicable to such informations have been solemnly recognized." These considerations, in our opinion, justify us in ruling that the Circuit
Court erred in deciding that the information' is fatally defective because it does not aver distii.ictly and separately
what John Slidell had done, but makes its allegations in the
alternative.
No other reason than this we have mentioned, and which
we regard as insufficient, was assigned by the Circuit Court
for reversing the decree of confiscation, and ordering the
information to be dismissed. But during the argumei it in
this court, other objections have -been urged against the
decree, which, if they are valid, would justify its revei'sal,
though some of them would not warrant the dismissal of
the libel. It, therefore, becomes necessary to examine and
determine whether they exhibit- error in the action of the
District Court.
The first of these objections, and the one niost pressed, is,
that the court was without jurisdiction of the case. It is
said no other property than such as had, prior to the filing
of the informatiQn, bbn seized by the direction of the
President of the United States, was within the- purview of
the seventh section of the Confiscation Act, and,-ttherefore,
within the limited jurisdiction of theDistrict Court; and it
is insisted the record does not show there had beefi any executive seizure of the eight hundred and forty-four lots and
ten squares of ground before the information was filed, or,
"
indeed, at any time.
'Undoubtedly, though'not an inferior court, the District
Court is one of limited jurisdiction, a-nd that ithas jurisdic. Gallison,91a

"

THE CONFISCATION

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion of the particular case which it attenpts to adjudicate,
must alwa-s appeal,. Undoubtedly, also, only such property
as" has been seized by executive order is within the power
of that court for confiscation proceedings. Thus much is
conceded. But it is a mistaken assertion that the record in
this case does not show all executive seizure-of the prdperty
condemned. before the District Court assumed any jurisdiction over it. - The information avers that such a seizure was
made on the 15th of August, 1863. by the marshal, under
written authority given ,him by the distritct attorney, in compliance with instructions issued to him by.the Attorney-,
General of Ithe United States,by virtue of the act of Congress of Jily 17th, 1862 (the Co.nfiscation Act); and to a
citation or monition founded on the information, default was
made. What the effict of this default was we do not piopose now to discuss at length. We have gone over the
ground recently in .the case of Miller v. 'The United States,*
and to that case we refer. -In view of-what was there said
and decided, and in view of the authorities cited, it must-be
held that the default esthblished the truth of all the material
averments in the information, and among others, that there
had -been an executive seizure before the inforniation was
filed. It was equivalent in effect to a confession. Now,
while it is true a party cannot, by7 consent, confer jurisdiction where none would exist without it, if is equally true
that whlen jurisdiction depends upon the existence of a fact,
its existence may be shown as well by the.confession of a
party as by any other evidence.
It is next contended that the court had im jurisdiction,
even if the seizure alleged in the information was made, because it fs not averred to have been made by order of the
President'of the United States. As we have seen, the libel
se.s forth a seizure made by the marshal, under authority
given by the district attQrney, in pursuance of instructions
issued by the Attorney-General of the United States, by virtue
6f the act of Congress (viz., the Confiscation Act). It is said
11 Wallace, 268.

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFISCATION CASES.
Opinion of the court.

this exhibits no authority given by the President for the
seizure, and that-the Attorney-General was not empovered
to direct it. But if t~he seizure was made, by virtue of the
act of Congress, as the intormation avers it was, it was necessarily caused to -be made-by the President, for he only was
empowered by the act to cause, it. Then the AttorneyGeneral must have been the agent of the President to give
instructions to the district attorney, and through him to the
marshal. The tfanguage of the statute if, "it shall be the
duty of the President t6 cause the seizure," &c. This implies that the seizure is to be made by the agents of the
President. -And a direction given by the Attorney-General
to seize property liable to confiscation under the act of Congress must be regai'ded as a direction given by the.President. In" Wilcox v. Jackson,* it was ruled that thePresident
speaks and acts through the heads of the several depart
ments in relation to subjects which appertain to their respective duties. Therefore, where, by an act bf Congfess, all
lands reserved from sale by order of the President were exempted from pre-emption, this court ruled that a request for
a reservatibn made by the Secretary of War for the use of
the Indian'department, must be considered as made by the
President vithin the meaning of the act. The same doctriine was asserted in United States v..Eliason.t It may, we
think, be properly applied to the present case. While it is
true the right of seizure and confiscation grows out of a
state of war, the means by which confiscation is effected
have a very appropriate relation to the duties of the law department of the government. But whether this is so or not,
it is sufficient. that the information in this case avers the
seizure was made by virtue of the act of Congress. It must.
therefore, have been caused by the President.
It is next objected that the suit was on the admiralty, and
not on the law side of the District Court. The seventh section of the Confiscation Act enacts that the proceedings
shall conform as nearly as may be to the proceedings in ad* 18 Peters, 498.

t 16 Id. 291.

THE CONFISCATION OASES.

[Sup'. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

miralty or revenue eases. Strict conformity is not required.
No doubt in cases of seizure upon land, resort should be
had to the common-law side of the court, and such, in substance, was, we thfnk, the case here. Everything necessary
toa common-law proceeding in rem is found in the record.
An information was filed (called a libel of information, it is
true, but still an information), a citation as well as a monition was issued, a default was taken, and, after consideration
of the evidence, condemnation was adjudged. What was
lacking in this to a common-law proceeding in rem ? The
principal lack alleged is that there was ng jury trial. But
in courts of common law no jury is called when there is no
issue of fact to be tried. An inquest is sometimes employed
to assess damages; but a jury to lind facts is never, required
where there is no traverse of those alleged, and where a defendant has defaulted. What matters it then that the inforrnation was called a libel of information, or that the warrant
and citation is called a monition? The substance and all
the requisites of a common-law proceeding are found in the
record. Technical niceties are not required either in admiralty or revenue cases.*
It is next objected there was no sufficient service of the
process; but we think the returnof the marshal shows exact compliance with the order of thecourt directing service,
and the manner in which it should be made. The order
was that notice be given in two ways to the owner or owners
of the property, and all persons interested therein, requiring
them to appear and answer the information. The first of
these ways was by posting a copy of the order on the front
door.of the court-house, and the second was by publication,
viz.; publication of the requirement to appear in the Era
newspaper. Iu the execution of the order the marshal went
beyond it. 'He posted copies of the information, of the
warrant, and of the order of the judge, and he published
the monition, which was a citation, as he was directed. *The
service was, therefore, sufficiently made.
Samuel, 1 Wheaton, 9; The Hoppet, 7 Cranch, 489.

Oct. 1873.]

THE

CONFISCATION CASES.
Opinion of the cart.

It is further objected that the information was informal,
in that it contained n.o charge- against Slidell, the alleged
owner, but that its averments were in the disjnnctive. We
have already sufficiently answered this. So, too, the abs.ence
of any averment that the causes of forfeiture were contrary
to the form of the statute 6r statutes of the United States
in such case provided, is no sufficient reason for reversing
the judgment of the District Court. Such an averment is
requiredby the twenty-second admiralty rule, but even, in
admiralty a failure to make it cannot be taken advantage
of in a court of errors.* The defect is only formal. It is
true the absence of such averment ill
indictments and crimi.nal info. mations has beeni held to be a fatal thult, but for
reasons inapplicable to civil proceedings, and we need not
repeat that the present is a civil case.
Another objection urged against the proceedings inithe
District Court is, that the warrant, citation, and monition
was not signed by the clerk of the court. It was attested
by the judge, sealed with the seal of the court, and signed
by the deputy clerk. This was sufficient. An act of Congress authorized the employment of the deputy, andin gen-.
eral, a deputy of a ministerial officer can do every act which
his principal might do.t
A further objection urged against the adjudication of for.feiture made by the District Court is, that it was made without any finding'that the property belonged to John Slidell,
or any person included in either of the classes designated
in the fifth and sixth sections of the Confiscation Act. This
is a renewal.of the complaint so earnestly pressed in Miller
v. The United Slates, and which we held to be without foundation. It is said that. notwithstanding the default, it was
the duty of the court to "proceed to hear and determine the
case according to law, as is directed by the eighty-ninth
section of the act of March 2d, 1799,1 respecting forfeitures
incurred under that act." But were this conced6d, of whatavail would it be in this case in support of the objection?
* The Merino, 9 Wfieaton, 401.

: 1 Stat. at Large, 696.

:

t Comyn's DigestOffiqer, D., 8,

THE CONFISCATIQN CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of tM) court,

The court did proceed to hear and determine the case after
the default was entered. And it was not until after such
hearing and consideration that the property was condemned.
This appears by the record. 'Having heard and considered
evidence, it must be presumed the court found that-the property belonged to a person engaged in the rebellion, or one
who had given aid or comfort thereto, as well as all other
facts necessary to the rendition of the judgment. This is a
presumption always made in support of judgments-of courts
after their jui-isdiction is made to appear. No rul of law
required the District Court to state in detail in its record its
findings o fact, and no such practice has prevailed in any
court except some which are both of limited and, inferior
jurisdiction. Nor is it to be considered in a, court of error
'whether the evidence was sufficient to warrant the findings
presumed to lave been made, and without which the judgment could not have been given. A less degree of evidence'
is certainly needed after a default. Even in-United States v.
The Lion,* so much relied upon, where a condemnation was
sought under an- act of Congress which enacted that after
the default the conrt should proceed to hear and determine
the case aecordin& to law, Judge Sprague said, "To what
extent there must be a hearing m ist depend on the circumstances of the case." "The court," said he, "will at least
examine tle allegations of the libel, to see if they are sufficient in law, the return of the marshal, and such affidavit.
or affidavits as the district attorney shall submit." And he
added that a wilful omission by the owners to answer might
of itself satisfy the court that a forfeiture should be decreed.
But without further consideration of.this objection, we refer
to the opinion delivered in Miller v. United States, .t6 which
we still adhere.
There remains but one other matter which requires notice.
It is coutended' that the proclamations of amnesty in 1868
amounted in effect to a repeal'of the Confiscation Act. To
this we cannot assent. No power was ever .vested in the
* 1 Sprague, 399.

Oct. 1873.]

THE C6NPISCATION CASES.

118

Opinion of Clifford, J", dissenting.

President to repeal an act of Congress. Moreover,'the property condemned in this case became vested in the Urnited
States in 1865, b v the jndgment of forfeiture, and tlho sale
under the vendilioni exponas merely c6uv-erted into mopey
that which was the property of the government before. No
subsequent proclamation of amnesty could have the effect
of divesting vested rights. Even the express repeal of a
statute does not take away rights of property vhich accrued.
under'it vhile it was in force.
We have thus.reviewed the whole record of -the proceedings in the District Court,'and we have been able to discover nothing which jutified a reversal of the decree of
condemnation.
JUDGMENT OF THE CIRCUIT.COURT REVERSED,

and the cause

remanded with instructions to
AFFIRM THE JUDGMENT OF THE -DISTRICT COURT.

Mr: Justice CLIFFORD: I dissent from the opinion of
the court in t'his, case because it is repugnant to the repeated
decisions of this court, to the eighty-ninth section of the
Collection Act, and to the twenty-ninth admiralty rule of
this court, whiclh was adopted as the rule of'decision more
than thirty years ago; and because it is opposed to the
whole current of the decisions of the admiralty courts and
to the rules laid doivw' by.the most apPi'oved writers upon
admiralty law.*
Apart froth that, I also adhere upon the merits to the dissenting 6pinion in the case of Miller v. United Slates.t
Mr. Justice FIELD: I dissent from the opiiniou and judgment of the court on the grounds state1 in the dissenting
6pinions in the cases of Miller v. United Slates, and Wler v.
The Vengeance' 3 Dallas, 297; The Sarah, 8 Wheaton,, 394; 1 Stat. at
Large, 606; Admiralty Rules, No. 29;'The David Pratt, Ware, 495; elerke's

Praxis, art. 35; The Schoondr Lyon, 1 Sprague, 400; 2 Conklin's Admiralty,
2d ed. 178; Benedict's Admiralty,
449, 452; 2 Browne's Civil and Admiralty Law, 401; Dunlap's Practice, 206; 2 Parsons on Shipping arid
Admiralty, 400.
t 11 Wallace. 814.
VOL

XX.

8

THE CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

_Defrees, reported in the 11th of Wallace, so far as they are
applicable to the facts of; this case; and on the further
ground, that the libel of iliformnatiou is fhtally defective in
charging no one ofFence positively, but several offences in
the alternative.
Mr. Justice DAVIS also dissented.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, not having heard the argument,
took no part in the judgment.

NOTE.
CLAIMS

OF MARCUARD

ET AL.

Holders of liens against real estate sold under the Confiscation Act of July
17th, 1862, should pot be permitted to intervene in any proceedings for
the confiscation. Their liens will not, in any event, be divested.
IN these cases, which were several appendages to the case
just above reported, and which came here on error or appeal
from the .Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana, Marcuard,
the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, and the Merchants' Bank of
New Orleans, alleged that at the time of filing the information
mentioned in the foregoing case as the foundation of the sale
which was made of the eight hundred and forty-four lots and
ten squares of ground in New Orleans, owned by Slidell, they respectively held liens against the said property. And they were
permitted by the courts below to intervene for the protection
of their claims. Those courts, however-the District Court first,
and the Circuit Court affirming its action-refused to let them
take the proceeds of the sale.
On the different writs of error or appeals the question was
whether this action was right.

Mr. Thomas Allen Clarke, for the parties appellant or plaintiffs
in error, denied that it was.
.Mr. C.

. Rill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra.

