Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFIS0ATION OASES.

Statement of the case.

Mr.Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The parties now before us complain that they were not
allowed to take the proceeds of the sales. But they ought ndt
to have been allowed to intervene. They had no interest, even
if they were lien hol ders, in the confiscation proceedings. It
was only the right of John Slidell, whatever that right was,
that could be condemned and sold, and the sale .under the judgment of condemnation in no degree disturbed their liens.. By
the decree of condemnation the United States -succeeded to the
position of Slidell, and the sale had no other purpose or effect
than to make the thing confiscated available for the uses designated by the Confiscation Act. This was decided in Bigelow v.
Forrest,* and more recently in Day v..Micout The District
Court, therefore, acted correctly in rejecting the claims of the
appellants and plaintiffs in error, even if the reasons given for
the rejoction were insufficient, and the Circuit Court was not in
error in affirming what the District Court did.
The action of the Circuit Court in the premisesis, therefore,
AFFIRMED IN EACH Or THE CASES.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY did not sit during the argument, and
took no part in the decision of any of the above <auses.

CONRAD'S LOTS.
When,under the Confiscation Act of July 17th, 1862, an information has
been filed in the District Court and a decree of condemnation and sale
of the land seized been made, and the money has been paid into the
registry of the court, and on error to .the Circuit Court, that court, reversing the decree, has dismissed the information but confirmed the sale,
and ordered the proceeds to be paid to the owner of the land-if on error
by the United States to this court, this court reverse the decree-of the
Circuit Court, and affirm the decree of tbe District Court, that reversal
will leave nothing 6n which a writ of error by the owner can act. The
judgment having been reversed, the confirmation of the sale and order
to paythe proceeds fall. The only judgment can be reversal again.

ERaOR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
On an information.very similar to that in Slidell's case, filed
in the District Court for Louisiana, by The United. States v. Ten
*9 Wallace, 399.

t 18 Id. 156.

TiE CONFISCATION CASES.

.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Lots of Ground, the property of 0. JM. Conrad, the lots had been
decreed by that court forfeited to the United States, and were
sold aceordingly the money being paid into the registry of the
court.
On error to the Circuit Court that judgment was set aside,
and the information was ordered, to be dismissed, but it was
also ordered that the net proceds of the property sold under
the judgment be paid to Conrad, and that the sale stand confirmed.
Two writs of error were sued out, one by the United States
and one by Conrad; that by the United States bbing to the action of the Circuit Court in setting aside the judgmnent of the
District Court and ordering the information to be dismissed,
and that by Conrad to the action of the court confirming the
sale made under the judgment of condemnation and forfeiture.
On the writ taken by the United States this court (just after
reversing the judgment in Slidell's case) reversed the judgment
in Conrad's case also, and for the same reasons that it had reversed the judgment in Slidell's case, and remanded the cause,
with instructions to affirm the judgment or decree of the District Court.
The present ease was on the writ of error taken by Conrad,
and upon it ho now sought here to obtain a reversal of so much
of the judgment as confirmed the sale made under the judgment
of condomn'ation and forfeiture.
Mr. C. M. Conrad,plaintiff in error, in propridpersond; Mr. C.
H. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
We have just debided in the case of the United States v. Ten
Lots of Ground, the property of C. M. Conrad (it being a writ of
error sued out by the United States), that the judgme~t of the
Circuit Court was erroneous, and reversed it, ordering that the
decree of confiscation be affirmed. This leaves nothing upon
which thle present writ of error can act. The judgment having
been reversed, the order of confirmation of the sale, as well a's
the order of distribution, fill with it. We can,-therefore, only
repeat the judgment given in the former case, which was a
judgment of reversal,
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

Oct. 1873.]

KNAPP V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

117

Statement of the case.

Justices CLIFFORD, D.AVIS, and FIELD dissented from
the judgment rendered, and were of opinion that only' so much
of the judgnment of the Circiiit Court should be reversed as Confirmed the sale made under the decree of the District Court..

KNAPP V.

AI4ILROAD COMPANY.

1. In determining a qudstion whethnr a Circuit Gouith ad errfed in dbnying a
motion to remand, a case removed to it-from the..Stat cdurt, Anid giving
judgment as if the ease had been rightly remove&to it, this court can'not
piy any attention to a certifivate of the clerk of such Circhit Court,
certifying that on the hearing of the ?notion in the Circuit Court certain.
things "appeared," " were proved," or "were admitted," or "agreed
to" by the parties respectively; such ficts not appearing by-bill of exception nor by any case stated. Neither party can gain any advantage
by such a statement.
2. The ict of Congress of March 2d, 1867, allowing either of the parties td
a suit-they being of a certain class described-to remove-it from a
State court into the Circuit Court of the United States, does not. change
the previously existing and settled rules which determine who are to be
regarded as the plaintiff and defendant.
8. Hence, where two persons in one State, trustees, for bondholders, of a
mortgage of a railroad owned by a company in another, foreclosed the
-mortgage, bought in the road in trust for the bondholders, and then
leased it to a citizen of the State to which they thbmselves'belonged,
and then a majority of the bondholders in the State where the original
company was, in pursuance of a statute there, formed themselves ieto a
new corporation, to which -thestatute gave ownership and control of
the -omd, and suit was brought in a State court against the lessee of the
road by the trustees who-had made the leasei held, that the defendant
could not remove the suit from the State court to the Federal court on
tbe ground that it was wholly between the new corporation and the
lessee, and that the trustees wer6 now merely nominal parties; they,.
the trustees, not having been discharged from, or in any way incapacitated from executing their trust, and there having been, in fact, unpaid
bondholders who had not joined in the creation of the new corporation,
and who had yet a right to call onthe trustees to provide for the payment of their bdnds.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Vermont;.
the only question in the-case being whetlier the suit, ofiginally brought in a State court (the County Court for the

