494 EQUITABLE

INSURANCE COMPANY V. HEARNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

We regard the case as one of mere deviation. It is essentially of that character. In that class of cases, the law
annuls the contract as to the future, and forfeits the premium to the underwriter. Here equity must follow the law.

We cannot apply a different rule.
DECREE AFFIRMED..

EQUITABLE INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

HEARNE.

Where a party proposed to insurers to insure his vessel on a " voyage from
Liverpool to Cuba and to Europe via Falmouth," at a rate named, and
the companypoffered to insure at a somewhat higher rate, saying, "1It is
worth something, you know, to cover the risk at the port of loading in
Cuba," hel& that it-was implied that "the port of loading" might be
different from the port uf discharge, and where the assured accepted
this offer, and told the insurer to insure 4 at and from Liverpool to Cuba
and to Europe vzaa market port,".&c.i held further, that a policy which
insured "to port of dlscharge in Cuba, and to Europe via a market
port," &c., did not conform to the contract, and was to be reforiped so
as to do so.

.APPEAL from theOircuit Court' for the District of Massachusetts.
The controversy in this case grew out of a contract of in-'
surance upon tle same eharter-party as in the preceding
case, though here theinsurance was by a different company
from the insurance there. The present case was thus:

On the 2d of May, 1866, Hearne addressed a letter to the
Equitable Insurance Compony as follows:
"Insure
valued at
per cent.;
Falmouth,
registered

$400 on the charter-party of the bark Maria Henry,
$16,000, if you will not charge me more than 3
.voyage from Liverpool to Cuba, and to' Europe via
for orders where to discharge. She will take her
tonnage of coal:"

On the 4th of the same ntonth the company replied:
"We cannot write the charter of the bark Maria Henry at
your rate, viz., 3 per cent:, including coals, from Liverpool to

Oct. 1874.] EQUITABLE INSURANCE

COMPANY ..

HEAINE.

495

Opinion of the court.

Cuba. Our rate will be 4 per cent. for the voyage, to include
coals."
On the 7th of the month Hearne answered, ai'guing against
the rate proposed, and offered "3 per cent.; or 4 per cent.,
1j per cent. to be returned if no loss.'
On the day following the company responded:

"We will write upon the charter of the bark Maria Henry as
proposed by you-Europe to Cuba and back to Europe-at 3 .
per cent. pat. It is worth something, you know, to cover the risk at
the port of loading in Cuba,"
On the next day Hearne wrote:
"I accept your proposition in reference to the insurance of'
the bark Maria Henry. Please insure, $4000, at 3j per cent., on
the charter valued at $16,000, at and from Liverpool to Cuba,
and to Europe via a market port, for orders where to discharge."
The contract, as expressed in the policy, was

for-

" Four thousana dollars on charter of bark Maria Henry, at
and from Liverpool to port of disclfarge in Cuba, and at and
thence Co port of advice and discharge in Eutope"

,The facts of the case were the same in all respects, down
to the close of the litigation at law b tween the parties, inclusive, as those in the case immediately preceding, where
the controversy was with the other company. That case is
'referred to for the particulars. Hearne having been aefeated in his action at law, filed this bill for the reformation
of the contract, as stated in the policy. The Circuit Court
decreed in his favor. The company brought the case here
for review.
Mr. J. C. Dodge, for the appellant;"Mr. Walter,Curtis, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It is not denied'that the correspondence between the parties constituted a'preliminary agreement. Such clearly was

496 EQUITABLE INSURANCE CO1PANY V.' HEARNE.

[Sup.'Ct.

Opinion of the court.

its effect. The policy was-intended to put the contract in a
more full and formal shape. The asured was bound to
read the letters of the company in reply to his own with
care. It is to be presumed he did so. He' had a right to
assume that the policy would accurately conform to the
agreement thus made, and to rest confidently in that belief.
It is not probable that he scanned the policy with the same
vigilance as the letters of the company. They tended to
prevent such scrutiny, and, if it' were nec~ssary, threw bim
off his guard.
The principles upon which a court of equity will exercise
-the jurisdiction invoked by the.appellee were considered iii
the case which precedes this. What was there said need not
be repeated. In this case Hearli-e's proposition to the company was to insure upon t6h charter, "voyage from Liverpool, to Cuba, and to Europe vid Falmouth." The company'sresponse, as before stated, was: We will insure "as
proposed by youL-Europe to Ouba-at 3- per cent. It is
worth something, you know, to cover the risk at port of
loading in Cuba." This is the language of the parties, and
it is the essence of the colrespondence. Suppose the language of these sentences had been incorporated in the policy
in this form: This company hereby insures $4000 upon the
charter of the bark Maria tenry, as proposed by the assured,
from 'Europe to Cuba and back to .Rurope, at 34 per cent. vet,"
-the premium is enhanced "to cover the risk at port of loading in Cuba,"-what would have been the legal result? Can
it be doubted that the policy would be held to cover alike

the voyage to a port of discharge in Cuba, a voyage thence,
if necessary, to a port of loading in Cuba, and a voyage from
the latter to Europe? The " port of loading" is the only
,one mentioned in the letter. It seems to have been uppermost in the mind of the writer. The risk is referred to as a
distinct and separate one. The implication is that the port
might be one other than the.port of unl&ading. The right
to go to both rests u.pon the same foundation, and it is not
more clear as to one than the other. What is impli'ed is-s
effectual as what is expressed. The intent of the parties, as

Oct. 1874.]

EQUITAiBLE ISURANCE COMPANY V. HEARNE.

497

"Opinionof the court.

manifested, is the contract. -Upon anyother construction
the important language as to "the port of loading" would
be insensible and without effect.. No other interpretation,
we think, can reasonably be given: to it.
In _Dickey. v. The Baltimore 1hsueance.o.,*' the policy insured the vessel upon a voyage, from New York to Barba-does, and at and from thence to thl Island bf Trinidad, and
at and from l-Inidad back to New York." This court held
that the words "at and from" protected the vessel in bailing
from one port to another in Trinidad to take in a part. of
her cargp. Marshall, Chief Justice, said: "It is the settled
doctrine of the courts of England that insuranc at andfrom
an island, such as those in the West Indies, generally iptures.
the vessel while'coagting f!'om port to port.for the purpose
of the voyage insured.'? le refers to Bond v. Nutt,t and to
SThellusson v. -Fergusson.t Thecase of (,-zdkshalk v.. Jansen§
is to the same effect. These authorities fully sustain the
prbposition laid down. We are not aware that their autho'rity has ben'questioned; Theyr show the just liberality
of construction which obtains'Where contracts of insurance
are inv6lved.
In this controversy the clear terms of the preliminary
agreement warranted the court below in overruling the departure from it found in the policy.
We have examined the case only in the light of its own
inherent facts. We have not found it necessary' to con"sider
the usage alleged to exist at Liverpool touching'voyages in
the trade from that port to Cuba. It seems clear to u.8 that
the judgment below does not need further support. - We,
therefore, forbear to remark upon that subject..
DECREE AFFIRIZED.

7 Cranch, 827.
1 Douglas, 361.
VOL. XX.

t 2 Cowper, 601.
? 2 Taunton, 801.

