Oct. 1874.]

FERRIS V. HIGLEY.

875

Statement of the case.

'Similar remarks, might be made respecting the seeond
claim of the.patent of August, the only yemaining one
alleged to hav6 been infringed. All the- elements of the,
cqmbination have not been used by the defendants.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

This case was argued befoie the CHIEF JUSTICE took
his seat, and he- did not participate:in the judgment.

FERRIS V. HIGLEY.
1. The act of Congress under wbicbUtah was organized as a Territory pro"videdfor a Supreme Court, District Courts, Probate Courts, and justices
* of the peace, and d.istributed the judicial power among them.
2. It gave to the Supreme and'District Courts a general jurisdiction at com-'
. mon law hnd in.chancery, and limited add defined the powers of the,
justiceh of the peace.
3: It declared that the egislative power should extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not incbnsistent with the Constitution oT the United
States or with the organic nt.
4. The act of tfie Terriiorial legislature conferring on the Probate,Cotirts d
general jurisdiction.in civil" and criminal cases, and both in -chancery.
and at common law, is inconsistent with ihe organic act, and'i.'tbherefore, void.

to' fhe Supreme

Court of .the Tritpry of Utah'.
The case, which involved a questi4). a io the urisdiction
of the Probate Courts of Utah, was thus:
'In 1850 6Cngress passed an act "to'establish.' Territorial
government for Utah;" the organic act governuigthe Territory.* The act !s'a long act, 'of seventeen sections. It
defines the boundaries of Utah.; establisbeis an excdutive'power and defines its duties; pro.vides for a secretary of the
Territory and defines his duties. It establishes also a legi.
lative, po-wer; declares of whom it shall be ',drnpofed,and
,ERROR

Act of' September 9th- 1850; 9 Stat. at Large, 453..

FERRis v. "HIIGLEY'.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

how the persons composing it shall be elected, and the qualification of the voters electing them.
In defining thllegi§lative power it says- among numerouc
other things:
"SE cTIoN 6. The legislative power of said Territory shall extend' to all rightftil subjects of legislation consistent with the
Constitution of the United States and the provisions of this act.
"All the laws passed by the legislative assembly and governor
shall be submitted to the Congress of the United States, and if
disapproved shall be null and of no effect."

It then thus establishes the judicial power:
"SECTION 9. The judicial power of' said Territory shall be
vested in a Supreme Court, District Courts, Probate Courts, and
in justices of the peace."

The same section then declares of how many justices the
Supreme Court shall consist; that the President of the United
States shall appoint them (as the act also does that he shall
the governor, secretary, attorney, and marshal, enacting that
-the United States shall pay the salaries of all), and how many
judges of the Supreme Court shall make a quorum, and for
what term their commissions shall run. It divides the Territory into judicial districts, makes District Courts, enacts
that the judges of the Supreme Court shall hold them; and
adds:
. "The jurisdiction of the several courts herein provided for,
both appellate and original, and THAT OF THE PROBkTE COURTS
and of justices of the peace SIALL BE AS LIMITED BY LAW. Provideo that justices of the peace shall not have jurisdiction of

any matter in controversy, where the title or boundaries of land
may be in dispute, or where the debt or sum claimed shall exceed
one hundred dollars, and the said Supreme and District Courts
SIespectively shall possess chancery as well as common law jurisdiction."
The act gives pow.er to the Supreae and District Oourts to
appoint their clerks, and enacts additionally:
"Writs of error, bills of exception, and appeals shall le allowed in all cases from the final decisions of said District Courts

1. Oct. 1874.]

FERRIS

v.

H:]IGLEY.

Statement of the casd.

to the Supreme Court, under such regulations as may be prescribed by law.
" Writs of error and, appeals from the final decisions of said
Supreme Court shall be allowed, and may be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States in the same manner and
under the same regulations as from'the Circuit Courts of the
United States."
But °though the act goes into full details about the Supreme and Dist'ict Courts, and, in fact, about everything
else relating to the government of the Territory, it says
nothing more in any part of it about Probate Courts than the
eleven words above quoted, on page 376, in small capitals.
With this act-of Congress in force as the fundarmental law
of the Territory, the Territorial legislature in 1855* passed
an act, entitled "An act in relation to the judiciary." That
act says:
"The several Probate Courts in their respective counties have'
power to exercise originaljurisdiction,both civil -ahd criminal,and
as well in chancery as at common law, when not prohibited bylegishitive enactment; and they shall be governed in all respects
by the same general rules and regulations as regards practice
as the District Courts."
Congress had not enacted any act "disapproving" of this
Territorial act, and thus rendering it, by Federal legislation,
null and of no effect.
In this state of enactment, Congressional and Territorial,
Higley sued Ferris in the ProbateCourt of Salt Lake-County,
on a promissory notdfor $1000, and obtained a judgment
there. The case coming into the District Court-of the third
judicial district, was reversed, on the ground that the Probate Court had no jurisdiction of such a suit; and this judgmeut being affirmed ch appeal to the Supreme Court, it was
now brought here by writ of error to that coui:t.
The question, of course, was whether under the orghnie
act of the Territory vestiug the judicial power of that Ter* January 19.

FERRIS V. HIGLEY.

[Sup.' Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

ritory "in a Supreme Court, District Courts, Probate Courts,
apd in justices of the peace," and declaring that the jurisdiction of those courts-mentioning specially " that of the
Probate Courts "-should be as limited by law-the said organic act-in its grant of power to the Territorial legi.slature
to legislate on all " rightful subjects of legislation consistent
with the provisions of the act "-meant that the jurisdiction
of the courts should be limited-that is to say, should be
defined by its law-the law of the Territory-alonei or
vhether it also referred to and included the ancient law,
well known in nearly all the United States of America, which
fixes the constitution of those courts which under various
names, including that of Probate Courts, have the care of
the estates and concerns of persons deceased.
Messrs. C.J. hillyer and T. Fitch, for the plaintf in error:
It cannot be argued that the establishment and definition
of jurisdiction of courts of record is not "a rightful subject
of legislation," or ihat Territorial legislation to that end
with respect to local courts, is inconsistent with the -Constitution of the United States.
The only inquiry is then whether the Territorial statute
coiferring conimoh-law and chancery jurisdiction upon Probate Courts is inconsistent with th6 provisions of the act of
Con gress.
It is submitted that Congress, in declaring that tne jurisdiction of the Probate Courts shall be "as limited by lwv, "'
intended a law to be hereafter enaefed either by itself or by
the Territorial legislature, and that the Territorial, legislature, in conferring upon the Probate Courts coziimon-law,
jurisdiction to an unlimited extent, did no more tian it.
was empowered by the act of Congress to do. It is further
submitted that the failure of Congress to subsequently annul
this act of the Territorial legislature by a disapprovinlg *tatute validates the exercise of power by the Territorial legislature, even if it had been originally of doubtful validity.
The idea that Congress, in using the words "as limited
by law," inteided, not statutory enactments alone, but "the

1 ]FERRIs
V. mIbLEY.

Oct. 1874.]

Opinion 'of the court.

law" in its broader sense, wherein the. history of Probate
Courts,.the constructions of emin'ent writers and the interpretation o.f courts as to the powers and jurisdiction -of Probate Courts in.
general are considered as part of "the law,"
can hardly -be sustained. A grant of power from the law-.
making body, acconipauied by a reservation that such power
so granted may afterwards ,be. "limited by law," means a
law to be thereafter enacted, and'not a judicial cons'ruction
of existing enactments.
Neither can it be argued that, as the section of the act of
Congress heretofore quoted confers original chancery and
commonlaw jurisdiction upon the District Courts, it therefore, by necessary implication, excludes such jurisdiction
from all. other courts under theapplication of the maxim.
The act of, Congress referred to is not a penal statute, and
the maxim; "Exrprssio unius," &c., does iot apply.,
The words "have power" in the Territorial a~t, are unusual in a statute meant to grant power. The usual words
are, "-hall'have power." One ot the judges of the court
below was of the opinion that the words used were meant
as a. simple declaration of the Territorial legislature'that the
jurisdiction already existed, though he did not rest the case.
on that ground. His opinion is submitted.
.Noopposing counsel.
Mr. Justice MIELER, delivered the opinion of-the court.
,The
T single question in this case is whether the Probate
Court had jurisdiction to-hear- and determine such an action
as it heard and determined in the present case; and this
must be decided by a construction of the statute 'of the Territory arid the provisions of the act of Congress organizing
the Territory.
A statute of the Territorial legislature enacts that "the
several Probate Courts, in their respective counties, have
power to exercise original jurisdiction, both civil and criminal,.and as wel in chancery as at common law, when not
.prohibited by legislative enactment, and they shall be gov-

FERRIs v. HIGLEY.

[Slip. Pt.

Opinion of the court.

erned in all respects by the same general rules and regulations as regards practice as the District Courts."
In a very learned opinion of one of the judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory,we find an ingenious argiment
in support of the idea-though the case is not rbsted on this
ground-tliat this- provision was not intended to confer jurisdiction, but was a mere' declaration of the opinion or tfie
Territorial legislature that the jurisdiction already existed.
This is founded on the use of the words "have poiver" in the
presei)t tense, instead ofr"shall have power," in the future.
We have no doubt that the legislature intended to co7 fer the
power by that sentence. No statute or other law existed
previously by which any one ever supposed that such power
existed. The form of expression here used is not at all uncommon for that purpose, especially in enactments which,
like this, are parts of a general code of laws. The legislature was not in any manner called upon to give its opinion
of the powers of the Probate Court, but it was in fact inaking a general system of laws for fhe Territory. It is inconceivaule that it meant anything else but to establish the
court and prescribe its jurisdiction.
But the power of the legislature to confer this jurisdiction
on the Probate Courtq is a much more serious question.
The organic act,-in defining the power of the Territorial
legislature, declares that "it shall extend to %l rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of the
United States, and with that -act."
We may, I think, assume, withiout much hazard, that defining the jurisdiction of a Probate Court, or, indeed, of any
eourt, may be fairly included within the general meaning
of the phrase rightful subject of legislation. Nor do we
think there is anything in such legislation inconsistent with
the Constitution of the United States. There remains then
only the further inquiry whether it is inconsistent with any
part of the organic act itself.
That act established a complete system of local governt
ment. It stands as the constitution or fundamental law of
the Territory. It provides for the executive, legislative, and

Oct. 1874.]

FE'RRis V.' HIGLEY.
Opinion of the court.

judicial departments of government.

It prescribes their

functions, their manner of appointment and election, their
compensation and tenure of office. In regard to the judiciary, it creates the courts, distributes the. judicial power
among themn, and provides all the general m6chinery of
courts, such as clerk, 'marshal, prosecuting attorney, &c.
It'is here then,'if anywhere, 'that, we sliuld look for
anything inconsistent with the power conferred on the Probate Courts by the. Territorial legislature... The ninth sec-"
tion of the act declares that "thejudicial power of th'e Territory shall be vested in a Suprem.e Court, District Courts,
Probate Courts, and justices of the peace," and itprescribes
the organization 1nd number of the District Courts. The
judges of these are apppinted by the President, by and with
'the advice and consent of the ' Senate of the United States.
And then it declares that "the jurisdiction of the' several
,courts herein provided for, both appellate and original, and
tbat of the Probate Courts, and of the justices of the peace,
shall beas limited by law: Provided, That justices of the
peace'shall uot'have jurisdiction of any matter in controversy where the title or boundary of lands may be in dispute, or vhere the debt or sum claimed shall exceed on6
hundred dollars, and the said Supreme and District Courts,"
respectively, shall possess chancery as well as common-law
j i'risdiction."
Provision is made in the same section for appeals and
writs of error from the Distiict Courts to the Supreme Court
,of the Territory, and fromthat court to the Supreme Court
of the United States, but no provision is made for any such
review of the decisions of the Probhtte Courts or of the justices of the peace.
The commou-law and chancery jurisdiction here conferred
on the District and Supreme Courts, is a jurisdiction very
ample and very well understood. It includes alinost every

matter, whether of civil or criminal cognizance, which can
belitigated in a court of justice. The jurisdiction of'the
justices of the peace is specifically limited as regards the
moneyed value on which it may decide, and by-the exctu-

FERRIS v. HIGLEY.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

sion of matters concerning real estate. Of the Probate
Oourts it is only said that a part of the judicial power of the
Territory shall be v~sted in them. What part? The answer
to this must be sought in the general nature and jurisdiction of such courts as they are ktiown in the Iiistory of the
English law and in the jurisprudence of this country. It is
a tempting subject fo trace the history of the probate of
wills and the administration of the personal ectates of decedents, from the time that it was held to be a matter of exelusive ecclesiastical prerogative, down to the present. It is
sufficient to say that 'through it alli to the present, hour,,it
has been the almost uniform rule among the people, who
make' the common-law of England the basis of their judicial system, to have 4 distinct tribunal for the establishment
of wills anl the administration of the estates of men dying
either 'vith or without wills. These tribunals have been
various]y called' Prerogative Courts, Probate Courts, Surrogates, Orphans' Courts, &c. To the functions more-directly
appertaining to wilJs and the administration of estates, have
occasionally been added the guardianship of.infitnts and
control of their property, the allotment of dower, and perhhpsoffher powers related more or less to the sane general
subject. Such courts are not in their mode of proceeding
governed h'y the i'qles of the common law. They are without juries and have no special system of pleading. They
may or may not have clerks, sheriffi, or other analogous
officers. They were not in England considered originally
as courts of record ; and have never, in either that country
or this, been made courts of general jurisdiction, unless the
attempt to do so in this case be successful.
Looking then to the purpose of the organic act to establish a general system of government, and its obvious purpose to 'say what courts shp.l exist in the Territory, and how
the judicial power stall be distributed among them, and
especially to the fact that all ordinary and necessavy jurisdiction is provided for in the Supreme and District Courts,
and that of the justices of the peace, and that the jurisdiction of the Probate Court is left to rest on the general nature

Oct. 1874.]

FERRIS v. HIGLEY.
Opinion of the court.

and character. of such courts as they are recognized in our
system of jurisprudence, is it not d fair inference-that it was
not-intended that that court should be made one of *general
jurisdiction ? that it should not be converted into a court
in which all rights, whether civil or criminal, whether of
comrmion-law or chancery cognizance, whether involving life,
pr. liberty, or property, should be lawfully. tried and determined ?
For all such cases, when tiied in the District Courts, provision is made for correction of errors'and mistakes by
appeal to a lifgher court. But no such provision is made in
regard to the Probate Courts, a thing which certainly would
have been done if it had been- supposed that all judicial
power would have been vested in them.
It is supposed that a sufficient answer tq this course of reasoning is found in the declaration of the ninth section of the
organic act already cited, that thejurisdiction of the several
courts therein provided for, " shall be as limited by law:"
The argument is that this refers to laws to be thereafter
made by the Territorial legislature, and that as the lower of
that body extended to afl rightful subjects of legislation, it
extended to this of totally changing the jurisdiction of these
courts. We are not prepared to say that, in deciding what
law is meant in this phrase, "as limited by law," we are
wholly to exclude laws made by the legislature of the Territory. There may be cases when'that legislature conferriiig
iiew rights, or new remedies, oi' establishing anomalbus rules
of proceedings within their legislative power, may direct in
what court they shall be had. Nor are we called on to ldeny
that the functions and powers of the Probate Courts may be
more specifically defined -by Territorial statutes within the
limit of the general idea of the nature of Probate Courts, or
that certaii duties not strictly of that character may be impo'sed on them by that legislation.
But we hold that the acts of, the legislature are not the
qnly law to w:hich we must look for the powers of any of
these Territorial courts., The general history of our Jurisprudence and the organic act itself are also to be considered,

FERRIS V. HrGLEY.

[Sup. Ct.,

Opinion of the court.

and any act of the Territorial legislature inconsistent with
the latter must be held void. We are of opinion that the
one which we have been considering is inconsistent with the
general scope and spirit of that act in defining the courts
of the Terf'itory, and in the distribution of judicial power
amongst them, inconsistent with the nature and purpose of
a Probate Court as authorized by that act, and inconsistent
with the clause which confers upon the Supreme Court and
District Courts general jurisdiction in chancery as well as at
common law. The fact that the judges of these latter courts
are appointed by the Federal power, paid by that powerthat other officers of these courts are appointed and paid in
like manner-strongly repels the idea that Congress, in conferring on' these courts all the powers of courts of general
jurisdiction, both civil and criminal, intended to leave to
the Territorial legislature the power to practically evade or
obstruct the exercise of those powers by conferring precisely
the same jurisdiction on coiorts created and appointed by the
Territory.
The act of the Territorial legislature conferring general
ju['isdiction in chancery and at law on the Probate Courts
isi therefore, void.
This view is supported by the decisions of courts of Kansas,* on a similar statute; by decisions in Idaho,t and by
the decisions of the Supreme. Court whose judgment we are
here call6d on to reverse.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, not having heard the argument,
took no part in the decision of this case.
*Locknane
v. Martin, McOahon, 60; Dewey v. Dyer, lb. 77; Mayberry,
Graham et al.v. Kelly, 1 Kansas, 116.
t The People 1'. Da Rell, 1 Idaho, 30; Moore v. Konbly, lb. 55.

