Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MORSE.

Statement of the case.

It results from these views that'steamboats navigating the
waters of the Fox River are subject to governmental regulation.
DECREE REVERSED,

and cause remanded for further pro-

ceedings,
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MORSE.
1. The Constitution of the United States secures to .citizcns of another State
than that in which suit is brought an absolute right to remove their
cases into the Federal court, upon compliance with the terms of the
twelfth section of the Judiciary Act.
2. The obstruction to this right imposed by a statute of a State, which enacts"That any fire insurance company, association, or partnership, incorporated
by ororganized under the laws of any other State of the United States, desiring
to trausact any such business as aforesaid by any agent or agents, in this State,
shall first appoint an attorney in this State on whom process of law can be
served, containing an agrpementthat suc)a coinpany will not remove the suit .for
trial into the United States Circuit Court or Federal courts, and file in the ofic
of the secretary of state a writtei instrument, duly signed and sealed, ertifing
such apTontment, which shall continue until another attorney he substituted,"

is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and the laws in
pursuance thereof, and is illegal and void.
S. The agreement of the insurance company, filed in pursuance.of the act,
derives no support from a statute thus unconstitutional and is as void as
it would be had no such statute been passed.
ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin; the case being

thus:
A statute of Wisconsin, passed in 1870,* enacts as follows:
"It shall not be lawful for any fire insurance company, association, or partnership, incorporated by or organized under the
laws of any other State of the United States, or any foreign
government, for any of the purposes specified in this act, directly or indirectly.to take risks or transact any business of in.
1 Taylor's Statutes, page 958, section 22.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MORS.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Statement of the case.

surance in this State, unless possessed of the amount of actual
capital required of similar companies formed under the provisions of this act; and any such company desiring to transact

any such business as aforesaid by any agent or agents, in this
State, shall first appoint an attorney in this State on whom pro-ccss of law can be served, containing an agreement that such company will not remove the suit for trial into the Unted States Circuit Court or Federal courts, and file in the office of the secretary
of state a written instrument, duly signed and sealed, certifying such
appointment, which shall continue until another attorney be substituted."
This statute being in force, the Home Insurance Company
of New York, a corporation organized under the laws of the
State of New York, and having its office and principal place
of business in the city of New York, being desirous of doing
business in the State of Wisconsin, established an agency
there, and in compliance with the provisions of the abovequoted statute, filed in the office of the secretary of state of
Wisconsin an appointment of H. S. Durand as their agent
in it,.on whom process might be served. The power of
attorney thus filed contained this clause:
"And said company agrees that suits commenced in the State
courts of Wisconsin shall not be removed by the acts of said
company into the United States Circuit or Federal courts."
Being thus established in the State, the company issued a
policy of insurance to one Morse, and a loss having occurred,
as was alleged, under it, Morse sued the company in the
County Court of Winnebago, one of the State courts of
Wisconsin, to recover the amount alleged to be due on the
policy. The ompany entered its' appearance in the suit
and filed its petition to remove the case, under the fwelfth
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, into the Circuit Court
for the district. The section under which the company filed
its petition for removal is in these words:
"If a suit be commenced in any State court . . . by a citizen
of the State in which the suit is brought against a citizen of
another State, . . . and the defendant shall at the time of enter-

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MORSE.

447

Argument in favor of the statute.

ing his appearance in such State court, file a petition for the removal of the cause for trial into the next Circuit Court to be
held in the district where the suit is pending . . . a'nd offer

good and sufficient surety for his entering in such court on the
first day of its session copies of said process against him, and
also for his there appearing, . . . it shall then be the duty of.

the State court to accept the surety and proceed no further in
the cause."
The petition was in proper form and was accompanied by
the required.bond and bhil.
. The State court of Wisconsin in which the suit was
)rought held that the statute above quoted, of the State,
and the agreement under it justified a denial of the petition
to remove the case into the Circuit Court of the United
States; and a trial having been had, gave judgment for the
plaintiff on a verdict found in his favor. A similar view as
to the effect of the statute of the State and the agreement
under it, was taken by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin,
and the judgment was there affirmed.* Tlereupon the insurance company brought the case here; and whether the
statute and the agreement were sufficient to justify the refusal to remove the case was the point now presented for
consideration.
The Constitution of the United States ordains as follows:
"This Constitution and the laws of the United States which
shall be made in pursuance thereof. . . shall be the supreme
law of the land; and the judges in every State shall be bound
thereby; anything in-the constitution or laws of any State to the
contrary notwithstanding.
"The judicial power of the United States . . . shall extend
to . . . controversies betiieen citizens of different States."

The case was twice argued.
Mr. J. W. Cary, in support of the judgment below:
That corporations created by the laws of one State htve
30 Wisconsin, 496.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MORSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the statute.

not the absolute right to recognition, and to do business in
another State, is not a subject for argument; the question
has been adjudicated by this court.
In the recent case of Paul v. Virginia,* this court, speaking through Field, J., says:
"aving
no absolute right of recognition in other States, but
depending for such recognitlQn and the enforcement of its contracts upon their assent, it follows, as a matter of course, that
such assent may be granted upon such terms and conditions as
those States may think proper to impose. They may exclude the
foreign corporation entirely, they may restrict its business to
particular localities, or they may exact such security for the
performance of its contracts with their citizens as in their judgment will best promote the public interest."
This case did but recognize what Taney, C. J., bad expressed in behalf of the court in Bank of Auiqusla v. Earle,t
in The Lafayette Inand what Curtis, J., said equally for it.
surance Company v. .French.1
If, therefore, a State corporation has no rights in States
other than in the one in which created, except "by the permission, express or implied, of those States," and if a State
bas an absolute right to prohibit a foreign corporation from
doing business within its limits, it follows of necessity that
when a State g'rants permission to do business, to a foreign
corporation, it has a right to impose such terms and conditious as it may see fit. The only point, therefore, upon
the question of removal is whether the contract or stipulatio n required by the statute of Wisconsin of 1870 inures to
the State alone, or inures to both the State and to each policyholder.
The provision is for the benefit of the assured, atd inserted
for a beneficent purpose, to wit: to give to the assured a
certain remedy without delay. It meant to prevent him
from being compelled to go a great distance from his home
to assert his claims, and that if he wishes a writ of error or
an appeal towhat is decided against him he shall not be sub*8 Wallace, 168.

•t 18 Peters, 519.

tI 18 Howard, 407.

Oct. 1874.]"

INSURANCi

COMPANY V. M0RSE.

44.9

Argument iniavor of the statute

jected to the expense of coming to this high court in Washington ; a court-often at a very great distance from the suitor,
and where of necessity he is often subjected to great delay
and to great cost. These foreign companies say to-the State,
"We wish to do busiiiess in your State." The State repliei:
'If" wepermit you to do business here and any or our people
suffir a loss, you can, under existing laws, subject them, if
you refluse to. pay, to the great inconveniencQ of going a long
distance frani their homes to enforce their rights. IHowever,
we will -give our consent to your doing business here provided you i\'ill agree to waive 'your rights under a certain
act of Congress, whic,, in cqntroversies betwdeen citizens of
diffreiit States gives to the defendant a right to be heard in
the 1 ederal courts, and will consent that all litigation shall
be in our courts, the courts of our State." The companies
answer, "We consent." And with such understanding they
are permitted to do business, and now they assert that they
are llot bound by.the agreement'!
It is well settled that a party cannot be allowed to take
benefits anid at the same time repudiate obligations. The
legislattire was granting a favor. It could impose its own
conditions, it matters not hpw much those conditions inight
onflict with the legal or constitatioual rights of these con-,
panies.'*
This contract of insurance in the present case was made
under the-law in question. A contract made unde' a law is
presumed to be made in reference to it; for the law of every
State where a contract is made enters into and makes part
of the contract.t Under the provisions of this law the status'
ofthe assured and insurer is the sdme as if the company had
put -imexpress condition in the policy that the insurer should
not remove an action tipon it from the State to the Federal
courts.
People v. Murray, 6 Hill, 468; Burrows v. Bashford et al., 22 Wisconsin, 108; -Van Slyke v. SLate, 23 Id. 655; Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wallace, 673.
j Blanchttrd v. Russell, 13 Massachusetts, 1; Ilfather v. Bush, 16 Johnson,
288.
29
VOL. XX.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MORSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The only question,.as we have before stated, is whether
the contract is with both assured and the State, or with the
State alone. That is a question which it belongs to the Suprenie Court of Wisconsin to decide, and not to the courts
of the United States.
.Messrs. IV. -1. Evarls and HI. H. -Finch,contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The refusal of the State court of Wisconsin to allow the
removal of the case into the United States Circuit Court of
Wisconsin, and its justification under the agreement of the
company mnd the statute of Wisconsin form the subject of
consideration in the present suit.
The State courts of Wisconsin held that this statute and
their agreement under'it justified a denial of the petition to
remove the case into the United States court. The insurance
company deny this proposition, and this is the point presented for consideration.
Is the agreement thus made by the insurance company
one that, without reference to the statute, would bind the
party making it?
Should a citizen of the State of New York enter into an
agreement with the State of Wisconsin, that in no event
woull he resort to the courts of that State or to the Federal
tribunals within it to protect his rights of property, it could
not be successfully contended that such an agreement would
be valid.
Should a citizen of New York enter into an agreement
with the State of"Wisconsin, upon whatever consideration,
that he would in no case, when called into the courts of that
State or the Federal tribunals within it, deman~d a jury to
determine any rights of property that might be called in
question, but that such rights should in all such cases be submitted to arbitration or to the decision of a single judge, the
authorities are clear that he would not thereby be debarred
from resorting to the ordinary legal tribunals of the State.
There is no sound principle upon which such agreements
can be specifically enforced.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANcE COMPANY V. MORSE.

451

Opinion of the court.

We see no difference in principle between the cases supposed and the case before, us. Every citizen is entitled to
resort to all the courts of the country, and to iivoke the
protection which all the laws or all those courts may affbrd
him. A man may. not barter away his life or his freedom,
or his substantial rights. In a efimin'i case, lie cannot, as
was held in (ancemi's Oase,* be fried in any other manner
than by a jury bf twelve men, although he consent in open
court to be tried by a jury of eleven men. In a civil case
.he may submit his particular suit by his own consent to an
arbitration, or to-the decision of . single judge. So he may
omit to exercise his right to remove his suit to a Federal
tribunal, as-often as lie thinks fit, in each recurring case.
In these aspects any citizen may no doubt waive the rights
to which he may be eititled. Re cannot, however,'bind
himself in advance by an agreement, which may be specifically enforced, thus to forfeit his rights at all times and on
all occasions, whenever the case may be presented.
That the agreement of the -insurance company is iinvalid
upon. the principles mentioned, numerous cases may be cited
to prove.t They show that agreements in advance to oust
the courts of the jurisdiction conferred by law are illegal
ind void.
In Scott v. Avery (one of the cases), the Lord Ohancellor
.says: "There is no doubt of the general principle that par.ties cannot by contract oust the ordinary courts of their jurisdiction. That has been decided in many cases. .Perhaps
the first case I need refer-to was a case decided about a
century ago.1 That case was an action on a policy of
insurance in which there was a clause that in case of any
loss or dispute it should be referred to arbitration. It was
decided there that an action would lie, although there had
18 New Yoil , 128.
t Nate v.Hamilton Insurance Co., 6 Gray, 174; Cobb v. New England
Marine Insurance Co.. Ib. 192; Hobbs v. Manhattan Insurance Co., 56
Maine, 421; Stephenson v. P. F. and M. Insurance Co., 54 Id. 70; Scott V.
Avery6 House of Lords Cases, 811.
$ Kill v. Hollester, 1 Wilson, 129.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MORSE.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

been no reference to arbitration. Then, after the lapse of
hall" a century, occurred a case belbre Lord Kenyon, and from
the language that fell from that learned judge, mainy other
cases had probably beceii decided which are not repoiited.
But in the time of Lord Kenyoi occurred the'case which is
considered the leading case on the subject, of Tionson v.
Charock.* That was ai action uponi a charter-party, in
which it. was stipulated that if any diflerence should a rise it
should be referred to arbiration. That clause was pleaded
iii bar to the action brought upon breach of the contract,
with an averment that the del'endant was, and always had
been, ready to refer the.sane to arbitration. This was held
to be a bad plea, upon the ground that a right of action had
accrued, anid that the fiet that thie parties bad agreed that
the matter should be'settled by a'bitration (lid not oust the
j-a risdiction of the courts." Upon FLis doctrine all the judges
who delivered opinions in the House of Lords were a'greed.
. And the principle, Mr. Justice Story, in his Conmentaries
on Equity Jurisprudetice,t says is applicable in courts of
equity as well as in courts of law. "And where the stipulation, though not against the policy of the law, yet is an
effort to divest the ordinary jurisdiction of the common tribunals of justice, such as an agreement in caqe of dispute
to refer the same. to arbitration, a court of equity will not
atiy more than a court of law interfere to eniorce the agreemeut, but it will leave the parties to their own good pleasure
in regard to such agreements. The regular admiiiistration
of justice might, be greatly impeded or intqrfered with by
such stipulations if they were specifically enforced."
InI Stephenson v. P. F awl 11. C. -Ins. Co.,t the coui't say:
While parties may impose as condition peeedeat to applications to the courts that they shall first have settled the
amount to be recovered by an agreed mode, they cannot
entirely close the access to the courts of law. The law and
not the contract prescribes the remedy,; and parties have no
more right to enter'into stipulations against a resort to the
* 8 Term, 139.

t" Section 670.

*54

Maine, 70.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURAiCE COMPANY V. MORSE.

453

O inion of the court.

courts for their rernedy in a given dase, than they have to
prbvide a remedy proh~ibited by law; such stipulations are
repugnant to:the rest of 'the contract, and assume to divest
courts of thei r established j urisdictions; as conditions precedent to an appeal to the courts, they are void." Many cases
are cited in suppdrt if the rule thus laid down. Upon its
own nierits, this agreement cannot be sustained.
Does fhe agreement in question gain validity from the
statute of Wisconsin, whic, has been-qu6ted ? Is fhie statute
of the State of Wisconsin, which enacts that a corporation.
organized in another State shall not transact business within
its limits, unless it stipulates in advance that it will not remove into the Federal courts any suit that may be commenced against it by a citizen of Wisconsin, a valid statute
in respect to such requisition, under the Constitution of the
United States?
The Constitution of.the United. States declares that the
judicial power of the United States shall extend to all catses
in law and equity arising under that Conistitution, the laws
of the United States, and to the treaties made or which shall
be made under their authority, . . 'to controversies between a State and citizens of another State, and between
citizens of different States.*
The jurisdiction of the Federal courts, under this clause
of the Constitution, depen'ds upon and is regulated by the
laws of the United States. State legislation cannot confer
jurisdiction hpon the Federal courts, nor can it limit or restrict the authority given by Congress in pursuance of the
Constitution. This has been held many times.t
It has also been held many times, that a corporation is a
citizen of the State by which it is created, and in which its
principal place of business is situated, so far as that it can
sue and be sued in the Federal courts. This court has repeatedly held that a corporation was a citizen of the State
*

Art. 3,

2.

t Railway Co. v. Whitton, 18 Wallace, 286; Payne v. Hook, 7 Id. 427;
The Moses Tavlor. 4 Id. 411, and cases cited.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MORSE.

[Sup. Ot .

Opinion of the court.

creating it, within th e clause of the Constitution extending
the jurisdiction of the Federal courts to citizens of diffirent
States.*
The twelfth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 provides
that if a suit be commenced in any State court by a citizen
of the State in which the suit is commenced, against a citizen of another State, where the matter in dispute exceeds
$500, and the defendant at the time of entering his appearance shall file a petition for the removal of the cause for
trial into the next Circuit Court of the United States, and
shall offer good bail for his proceedings therein, " it shall be
the duty of the State court to accept such security and proceed no farther in the cause."
This applies to all the citizens of another State, whether
corporations, partnersh'ips, or individuals. It confers an unqualified and unrestrained right to have the case transferred
to the Federal courts upon giving the security required. In
the case recently decided in this court, of Insurance Company
v. Dunn,t it was held that no power of action.thereafter remained to the State court, and that every question, necessarily including that of its own jurisdiction, must be decided
in the Federal court.
The statute of Wisconsin, however, provides as to a certain class of citizens of other States, to wit, foreign corporations, that they shall not exercise that rigit, and prohibits
them from transacting their business within that State, unless
they first enter into an agreement in writing that they will
not claim or exercise that right.
The Home Insurance Company is a citizen of Nbew York,
within this provision of the Constitution. As such citizen
of another State, it sought to exercise this right to remove
to a Federal tribunal a suit commenced against itself in the
State court of Wisconsin, where the amount involved exceeded the sum of $500. This right was denied to it by the
' Express Co. v. Kountze, 8 Wallace, 342; Cowles v. Mercer Co., 7 Id.
118; Railway v. Whitton, 13 Id. 275; Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Co.,
v. Wheeler, 1 Black, 286.
f 19 Wallace, 214.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MORSE.

455

Opinion of the court.

State court on the ground that it had made the agreement
referred to, and that the statute of the State authorized'and
required the making of the agreement.
We are not able to distinguish this agreement and this
requisition, in principle, from a similar "one made in the case
of an individual citizen of New York. A corporation has
the same right to the protection of the laws as a natural
citizen, and the same right to appeal to all the courts of the
country. The rights of an individual are not superior in
this respect to that of a corporation.
The State of Wisconsin can regulate its own corporations
and the affiirs of its own citizens, in subordin Ation, however,
to the Constitution of the United States. .The requirement
of an agreement like this from their own corporations would
be brutum fidmen, because they possess no such right under
the Constitution of the United States. A foreign citizbn,
whether natural or corporate, in this respect possesses a
right not pertaining to one of her own citizens. There must
necessarily be a difference between the status of the two in
this respect.
We do not consider the question whether the State of Wisconsin can entirely exclude such corporations from its limits,
nor what reasonable terms they may impose as a condition
of their transacting business within the State. These questions have been before the court in other cases, b'ut they do
not arise here. In Paul v. Virginia,* Mr. Justice Field used
language, in speaking of corporations, which has been supposed to sustain the statute.in question. "Having (he says),
no absolute right of recognition in other States, but depending for such recognition and the enforcement of its contracts
upon their assent, it follows, as a matter of course, that such
assent may be granted upon such terms and conditions as
those States may think proper to impose. They may exclude the foreign corporation entirely, they may restrict its
business to particular localities, or they may exact such security for the performance of its contracts with their citizens
as in their judgment will best promote the public interest."
* 8 Wallace, 1.68.'

'456

INSURANCE COMPANY V.

MORSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the coqrt.

So in,
the Bank of Augusla v. Earle, tle language of Chief
Justice Tancy has been invoked for the same purpose.
I,,each of these cases, the general language of: the learned
justice is to be expounded with reference to the subject before him. They lay down principles in general terms which
are to be understood only with reference to the facts in land.,
Thus, the case in which the opinion was delivered by Mr.
Justice Field was one involving the construction of that
clause of the United States Constitution which declares that
"the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and imimunities of citizefis in the several States," and
of that clause regulating commerce among the States, not
of the one now before us. It involved the question whether,
the State might require a foreign insurance company to take
a license for the traniaction of its business, giving security
for the paynent of its debts, and decided that taking insurance risks was nbt u transaction of commerce, within the
meaning of the two clauses of the Constitution cited. It
had no reference to the clause giving to citizens of other
States the right of litigation in the Uipited States courts, ,.nd
.certalily had no,bearing upon the right of corporations to
resoi't to those courts, or the power of the State to limit and
restrict such resort.
It was not intended to impair the force of the languAge
used by Mr. Justice Curtis in the La Fayette Inisurance Company v. Fre)ich,t where he says: " A corporation created'by
Indiana, can transact business in Ohio, only with the consent, express or implied,'of the latter State. This conseri
may be accompanied by such conditions as Ohio may thilnk
fit to impose, and these ,conditions must bd deemed valid
and effectual by other States, and by this court; provided,
they are not i'epugnant to the Constitution pind laws of -the
United States, or inconsistent with those rules of public law
which' secure the jurisdiction and authority of each State
from encroachment by all others, or that principle of natural
justice which forbids condemnation without opportunity for
*13

Peters, 519.

t 18 Howard, 407.,

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MORSE.

.457

Opinion of the court.

defence." Nearly the same langaoge is used by Mi". Justice
Nelson iii Ducal v. The Cily of Chicago.*
None of the cases so much as intim'ate that conditions
may be inposed which are repugnant to the Constitution
and laws of the United States, or inconsistent with those
rules. of public law which secure the jhirisdiction and authority of each State from encroachment by otfhers.
The case of the Bank of Columbia v. Okelj,t is relied upon
by the court below to sustain the statute and the "agreement
in question. In that case it was provided in the.fourteenth
section of the charter.of the baiik-that whenevera" borrower
of the bank should make his not. by an agreement ini writing negotiable at the bank and neglect its p'tylnent wh1n
due, the president of the bank should cause a demand in
writing to be served upon the delinquent, and if the money
was not paid within ten days after such demand it was made
lawful foir the bank to present to the county clerk the note
so unpaid, with proof of the demand, and to require him to
issue an execution or attachment against the debtor Befire
such execution could issue'the bank was required to file an
affidavit of the amount due on the note. "If the defendant
shall dispute the whole or any part of the debt (the statute
adds) on the return of the execution, the court shall oi'der
an issu'e to be joiued and a trial to be had, and shall inake
such other proceedings that justice may be done in the
speediest manner." Tils statute wis sustained in the case
cited. Mr. Key, for the plaintiff, argued in its support on
the theory that the whole effbct of the provision was to anthorize the commencement of a suit by attachment instead
of the usual common-law process. Mr. Jones, contra, contended that it was in violation of the provision of the constitution of Maryland and of the United States securing to
parties the right of trial by jury wlen the value in controversy exceeded twenty dollars. "In rendering the decision
the court say: '-This court would ponder long before it
would sustain this action if we could be persuaded that the
act in question produced a total prostration of the trial by
*10

Wallace, ,410.

t4'Wheaton, 235.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MORSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and Davis, J., dissenting.

jury, or even involved the defendant in circumstances which
If
rendered that right unavailing for his protection. . ..
the defendant does not avail himself of the right given to
him of having an issue made up and the trial by jury, which
is tendered.to him by the act, it is presumable that he cannot dispute the justice of the claim."
We a e not able to discover in this case any countenance
for the sfatute of Wisconsin which we are considering.
On this branch of the case the conclusion is this:
1st. The Consfitution of the United States secures to citizens of another State thAn that in .which suit is brought ffn
absolute right to remove their cases into the Federal court,
upon compliance with the terms of the act of 1789.
2d. The statute of Wisconsifi is an obstruction to this
right, is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States
and the laws in pu-rsuance thereof, and is illegal and void.
3(. The agreement of the insurauce company derives no
support from an unconstitutional statute and is void, as it
would be had no such statute been passed.
We ar:e of opinion, for'the reasons given, that the WinnebagoCounty Court erred in pi'oceeding in the .case after
the filing the petition and the giving the security required
by the. act of 1789, and that all subsequerit proceedings in
the State court are illegal and should be vacated. The
judgment iniJthat court, and. the judgment in the Supreme
Court.of Wisconsip, should be RBVERSED, and the prayer of
the petition for removal should be GRANTED.
ORDERED ACCORDINGLY.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
DAVIS, dissenting.
I cannot concur in the judgment waich has just been announced. A State has the right to exclude, foreign insurance-companies from the transaction of business within its
jurisdiction. Such is the settled law in this court.* The
right to impose conditions upon admission follows, as- a nec* Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wallace, 181; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Id. 410; Bank
of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters, 586.

Get. 1874.]

SPROTT V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

essary consequence, from the right to exclude altogether.
The State of Wisconsin has made ita condition of admission
that the company shall submit to be stied in the courts she
hag provided for the settlement of the rights of her own
citizens. That is no more than saying that the foreign company must; for the purposes of all litigation growing out of
the business transacted there, renounce its foreign citizenship and become pro tantlo a citizen of that State. There is
no har'dship in this, for it imposes no greater burden than
rests uppn home companies and home insurers.
This insurance company accepted, this condition, and was
thus enabled to make the contract sued upon. Having received the benefits of its renunciation the revocation comes
too late.
The State court had jurisdiction to try the question of
citizenship upon the petition to transfer. Upon the facts I
think it was authorized to find that the company was, for all
the purposes of that action, a citizen of Wisconsin, and refuse the order of removal.

SPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
1. A. purchaser of cotton from the Confederate States, who knew that the
money he paid for it went to sustain the rebellion, cannot in the Court
of Claims recover the proceeds, when it has been captured and sold,
under the Captured and Abanddned Property Act.
2. The mordl turpitude of the transaction forbids that in a court of law he
should be permitted to establish his title by proof of such a transaction.
8. The acts of the States in rebellion, in the ordinary course of administra*tion of law, must be upheld in the interest of civil society, to which
such a government was a necessity.
4. But the government of the Confederacy had no existence except as
organized treason. Its purpose while it lasted was- to oierthrow the
lawful government, and its statutes, its decrees, its authority can give
no validity to any act done in its service or in aid of its purpose.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The act known as the Captured and Abandoned Property
Act, passed March 12th, 1868,* providing for "the collection
12 Stat. at Large, 820.

