Qct.1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

648

Statement of the case.

THE RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.
[ON MOTION.]
Where,.on error to the supreme court of a State, the record shows u decision
of the State court on a Federal question properly presented, and of
which this court could take jurisd ietion, and shows also the decision of
a local -question, the writ of error will not be dismissed on motion in
advance of the hearing. The parties are entitled to be heard on the
soundness of the decision below on the Federal question, on the sufficiency of that question to control the judgment in the whole case, and
on the sufficiency of any other point decided to affirm the judgment even
if the Federal question was erroneously decided.

ON motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of Maryland. The case was thus:
The State of Maryland sued the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company in the Supreme -Court of Baltimore, in"-assumpsit, to recover one-fifth of the gross receipts of the
company,.from January, 1860, to January, 1870, for* the
transportation of passengers upon what is known as "the
Washington Branch Road," 'aioad'running from Baltimore
in Maryland under a charter from Maryland, to the boundary between .that State and the District of Columbia; the
line of way being continued by a charter from Congress to
the City of Washi-ngton,
By the act of the State of Maryland of 1832, under which
the branch road was built, one-fifth. of the entire receipts
from passengers was to go to the State. The defendant set
up, as a defence to the action, that this was a tax on passengers for the privilege of passing through the State of Maryland, and was, therefore, void under the Constitution of the
United States, within the principle of the case of Crandall v.
.Uevada. *
The Superior Court sustained this view of the subject and
gave judgment for the defendant. On appeal to the -Court
6 Wallace, 85.

644

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of Appeals, that court reversed the judgment and ordered a
new trial, at which the judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, and on a second appeal this was affirmed.
The defendant now brought the case here as within the
second section of the act of February 5th, 1867, quoted
supra, pp. 592, 593, right-hand column.
There was no question that the defendant asserted throughout the entire case a right and an immunity under the Constitutiou of the United States; that the law of the Maryland
legislature was in conflict with that Constitution, and that
this claim of right was decided against the defendant. The
opinion of the Court of Appeals, which was in the record,
showed that all the members of that court were of opinion
that the act of the, Maryland legislature was not in conflict
with the Federal Constitution, and so decided in this ,case.
The case was, therefore, clearly within the second section of
the act of .1867.
But that court in its opinion placed its judgment also, by
a majority (two judges dissenting), on the ground tht the
railroad company having acted as the agent of the State to
collect the money from the passengers, could not in this
action avail itself of the illegality of their act in demanding
and receiving it. And this also was a proposition which was
made in the case at its first trial and insisted on throughout.
Mr. A. K. Seyester, Attorney- Generalof Maryland,now moved
to dismiss the writ of error, urging that this, the second,
ground, just abovementioned as one on ivhich the Court of
Appeals placed its judgment, was of itself sufficient to control the case, and citing 1?ector v. Ashley,* Gibson v. Chouteau,t
and Klinger v. Missouri,T and' other cases, decided while the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act was in forco,'to
show that where there were other questions in the record
on which the judgment of the State court might have rested,
independently of the Federal question, this court could not
reverse.
*_ 6 Wallace, 147.

t- 8 Id. 314.

1 13 Id. 263.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

Opinion of the court..

Messrs. A. K. Seyester, L N. Steele, P. F. Thomas, and S. T.
Wallis, in support of the motion, again urged upon this court
that the second ground taken by the Court of. Appeals as
above said, was of itself sufficient to control the case.
Messrs. .everdy Johnson, J. f. B. Latrobe, and C. . M.
Gwin, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Some of the decisions' of thie court unler the act of 1789
would undoubtedly justify the view taken by the counsel of
the defendant in error, in support of the motion to dismiss,
if it we:e very clear that the second proposition on which the
Court of Appeals placed its judgmen-t was sufficient to control the case, and that it involved no consideration of Federal law.
But the act of 1789 contained restrictive language not in
the act of 1867; and in construing the statute as it now
stands, we have ruled in the. case of Murdock v. Memphis,
just decided, that where the Federal question has been
raised, and has been decided againsit the plaintiff in error,
the jurisdiction has attached, and it must be heard on the
merits. To what this examination on the merits shall extend we have in that opinion considered. But until we have
determined that the State court decided erroneously the
Federal question which it did decide, we can go no further
into the re-examination.
The counsel of both parties in this court are entitled to
be heard when the record shows the existence of a decision
which gives us jurisdiction, on the soundness of that decision, on its sufficiency -to control the judgment in the whole
case, and on the sufficiency of any other, point -decided, to
affirm the judgment even if the Federal questiofn was erroneously decided.
For these reasons the motion to dismiss the case is
OVERRULED.

