Oct. 1874.] Naw

ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

887

Statement of the case.

NEW ORLEANS V. THE STEAMSHI.P COMPANY.
1. This court has nq power to reverse, on appeal, the imposition of a fine
decreed by the Circuit Court for contempt of it.
2. A lease made July 8th, 1865, during the military occupation of New Orleans, in the late rebellion, by the army, of the United States, by the
mayor of New Orleans (appointed by the g9neral commanding the de\partment), pursuant to a resolution of the boards of finance and of sireet
lanaings (both boards appointed in the same manner), by which a lease
of certain water-front property in the said -city, for ten years-vibibh
lease called, for 'large outlays by the lessee, and ,was deemed by this
court otherwise a fair 6np-sustained for its whole term, although in
less than one year afterwards (that is to say, on the 18th of March,
1866), the government of the city was handed back 'to the proper city
-authorities.
8. Tfie fact, that on the 9th of February, 1866,-seyen months after the- lease
was made-a "general order" from the military department of Loutisiana, forbidding-the several bureaus of,the municipal government of
the -city, created by military authority, from dispqsing of any of- the
city property for a term extending beyond a period when the civil government of the city might be reorganized and re-established, in conformity to the constitution and laws of the State, held not to have altered
the case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana; the case being thus:
On the 1st of May, 1862, the army of the United States
captured the city of New Orleans. It was held by military
occupation until the 18th of March, 1866, when its governmeht was handed over to the proper city authorities.. The
condition of thin.gs which subsisted before the rebellion, was
then restored. Dtirihg the military occupation, it was governed by a mayor; a board of fiiance, and a board of street
landings, appointed by the commanding general of the de,partment. On the 8th of June, 1865, H1ugh Kennedy was
Thus appointed mayor. On the 8th of July, 1865, as such
mayor, pursuant to a resolution signed by the chairman of
the board of finance and by the chairman of the board of
street landings, both boards having been appointed in the
same manner as himself, Kennedy executed to the appellees

388

N'Fsw ORLEANS V.

STEAMSHIP

COMPANY.

[Sup. (.t.

Statement of the case.

a lease of certain water-front property therein described.
The lease made the following provisions:
The city granted to the company the right to inclose and
occuipy for their exclusive use the demised premises for the
term of ten years.
The company was at its own expense to build a new
wharf ini frotnt of the landing, as design'ated, with new bulkheads to retain the levee earthworks throughout the whole
extent, of the front'assigned to them, they furnishingthe
requisite labor and materials; to keep the structu'e' in complete order aiad repair until the termination of the lease, and
then to deliver it to the city authorities in that condition,
natural wear and tear only excepted. The company was to
haxe the right, at its .own cost, to construct buildings and
,sheds withind the inclosed space as should be required for
the transaction of their shipping and freighting business.
-The wharves were to be completed within a year from the
date of the lease, of new materials, in a workmanlike manner, and to be protected by a linie of heavy fender-piles in
front, of sufficient siz and strength to enable the largest of
the company's ships to land and load at the wharf without
damage. All the improvements, consisting of-wharves, bulkheads, fender-piles, sheds, buildings, and inclosures, were to
be kept in good repair by the company until the expiration
of the lease.
The lease was not to be transferred without the city's consent, and, in case of default by the company to fulfil its
enigagements, the city had the right to annul it. At the expiration of the lease all the improvements made by the company were to become the property of the city. The company
agreed to pay an annual rent of $8000, in monthly instalments, for which it gave its promissory notes, one hundred
and twenty in*number.
The companiy expended more than $65,000 in making the
improvements specified in the lease, and duly paid its notes
as they matured down to the 11th of April, 1866, including
the-one then due.
On the 18th of that month the city surveyor, aided by a

Oct. 1874.]

NEw -ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

389

Statement of the case.

number of laborers, acting under an order of the city council, approved by the mayor, destroyed the fence or inclosure
erected by the company.' It had cost them $7000. The,
company filed a :bill and supplemental bill whereby they
prayed for an injunction and damages. The notes for rent
given by the company and then unpaid were ,delivered by
the military authorities to the proper city authorities when
the governm'ent of the city was transferred to the mayor and
council. Those unpaid when this litigation was begun were
held by the city then and for several nh ths afterwards.
They were tendered to the company by a supplemental answer in this case and deposited in court, where they still
remained. The note last paid matured and was paid before the inclosure was destroyed. The city had not tendered back the money so paid, nor had it disclaimed .the
validity of the payment, nor had i ttendered back the amount
or any part of it, expended by the company in making the
improvements, nor made any offer touchiig the subject.In the process of the litigation the then mayor, Clark, applied to the Third District Court of the city for an injunction
to restrain the company from rebuilding tile inclosure which
had been destroyed, and an injunction was granted accordingly.
The company thereupon served a rule upon Clark to show
'cause why he should not be punished for contempt in taking
such action in another tribunal. At the final hearing of the
case the city offered in evidence order No. 11 of MajorGeneral Canby, commanding the military department of
Louisiana. The order was dated at New Orleans, February
'9th, 1866, and vas thus:
"The several bureaus of the municipal government of thb
city of New Orleans, created.by and acting under military authority, are enjoined and prohibited from alienating, or in any
manner disposing of, the real estate or other property belonging
to the city, or granting any franchise or right to corporations
or individuals for a term extending beyond such period as the civil
government of the city 'may be reorganized and re-established under
and in conformity to the constitution and laws of the State; and

890

NEw ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

[SUp. Ot.

Argument for the "city.

any alienation, disposition, or grant will be subject to any rights
and interest of the General Government which may be involved,
and shall not extend beyond the time when the questions relative to those rights and interest may be determined by competent authority."
The court refused to receive the order in evidence, and
the city excepted.
The following faits were agreed on by the parties: "From
the execution of the lease to the 18th of April, 1866, the
company had been in peaceable possession of the demised
premises, and had performed all its obligations under the
lease. No notice was given by the city of the intended demolition of the inclosure, and it was done early in the morning. Under its charter of 1856 the city had, before the war,
leased portions of its wharves to individuals and companies,
and had, in one instance, fairmed out the collection of levee
dues upon all the wharves by sections. The damages resulting from the destruction of the company's buildings, &c.,
and -the necessary employment, in consequence of this destruction, of additional watchmen, amounted to $8000."
At the hearing the court decreed that Clark, the mayor,
should pay a fine of $300 for the contempt of the court
wherewith he was charged; tnat the city should be enjoined
from interfering with the possession and enjoyment of the
demised premises by the company during the life of the
lease, and that the company should recover from -the city
$8000 for damages, and that the city should pay the costs
of .the suit.
It was from this decree that the present appeal was taken.
Mr. W. H. Peckham for the appellant:
J. The imposition of afine of $300 imposed on the mayor was
errqr. His action was the assertion of a right, and iuino
sense violated the injunction issued in this cause. Possibly
he mistook the court to which he should have applied. But
if he had applied to the court below, the application *old
have been, not to dissolve or modify the injunction already
issued, but for another injunction against the company, and

Oct. 1874.]

NEW'ORLEANS V. -STEAMSHIP COMPANY.'

391'

Argument for the city.

in favor of the city, whether such application- were made
by motion or petitioh in this suit, or by -filing a cross-bill,
as might be. appropriate under the practkce adopted in
Louisiana.
If the application to the court below would not have been
a contempt, nor an application to dissolve or modify the exEisting injunction, neither can it be a contempt when inade
to a State couyt.
Perhaps a suit for that purpose would be regarded as
ancillary to, the first suit, within the doctrine'of Freemanv.
.Rowe,* or, perhaps, a a distinct, proceeding within the doctrine of Buck v. Colbath,t but in neither case ban it be called

I
a contempt.
II. The refusal of the court below to admit the order of General
Canby, No., 11, was error. Mayor Kennedy's authority depended on martial law, and was restricted by the term of
General Butler's proclamati6n. He was always subject to
the directions of the military officers. These disapproved
of, and virtually reversed his action.' The fact that the date
is after that of the lease, is immaterial. Martial law is not
guided or controlled by constitutions. The apparent injustice t6 individuals of its decrees is a matter of no weight.
III. The lease cannot stand.
1. It was void of truth. Neither- the militai'y nor the civil
government had p'ower to make it. It was of property held
by the city in trust for the public, for public use; and ultra
vires. No power other than that of the State itself could
alien the rights of the public, and transfer them to an -individual or company, to the exclusion of the public. In Municipality No. -2 v. New Orleans Cotton Press,j the court says:.
"The city is not proprietor of a locus publicus, but only administrator. It belongs as much to the citizen of Ohio as to a
citizen of New Orleans. It'isa plan left open for the convenience of commerce, and for the use-of the whole world-a thing

hors du commerce."

-

24 Howard, 450.
t 3 Wallace, 334.
$ 18 Louisiana, 127, and see People v. Kerr, 27 New York, 188.

-392

NEw ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2. The military mayQr and boards had no authority to make
such a lease. Whatever rights or powers they possessed
terminated with the terminiation of hostilities, and they could
no more create an interest to last beyond that time that
could a tenant for years create one to last beyond his term.*
Mr. James .Emott, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE (having stated the case) delivered
the opinion of the court.
The questions presented for our consideration are questions of law. The facts are undisputed. Our remarkswill
be confined to the several objections to the decree taken by
the counsel for the appellant.
The fine of three'hundred dollars imposed upon the
mayor is beyond our jurisdiction. Coutempt of court is a
specific criminal offence. The imposition of the fine was a
judgment in a criminal case. That part of the decree is as
distinct from the residue as if it were a judgment upon an
indictment for pejury committed in a deposition read at
the hearing.t This court can take cognizance of a criminal
case only upon a certificate of division in opinion. In
Orosby's (ase, Mr. Justice Blackstone said: "The sole adjudication for contempt, and the punishment thereof, belongs exclusively and without interfering to each respective
court." The Circuit Cburt having first acquired possession
of the original case was entitled to hold it exclusively until
the case was finally disposed of.t Any relidf to which the
city was entitled should have been sought there, and that
* Halleck on International Laws and Laws of War, pp. 446, 447, and
1 and 2,
448, chap. 19, H 2, 3, 4, and 5; chap. 36, " 8 and 9, chap. 32,
pp. 776-777,
4, p. 781; Twiss on the Laws of Nations, and Rights and
Duties in time of Wac, chap. 4,
66, p. 126; Phillimore, vol. 3, p. 863, H

583 and 584, Digest, title "Rights," "private Rights," "Restitution Rights
of Captors." .
t Crosby's Case, 3 Wilson, 188; Williamson's Case, 26 :Pennsylvania
State, 24; Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheaton, 41.
1 Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wallace, 370; Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Peters, 400;

Taylor v. Carryl, 20 Howard, 684.

Oct. 1874.]

NEW ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

393

Opinion of the court.

court was competent to give it, either in the original or in
an auxiliary case. As to any other court the matter was
ultra vires.* It was unnecessary, unwarranted in law, and
grossly disrespectful to the Circuit Court to invoke the interposition of the State court as to anything within the scope
of the litigation already pending in the Federal court.
The order of General Canby, No. 11, was issued seven
months after the lease was made. The rights it conferred
upon the lessees, whatever they were, had then become

fully vested. The order did not purport to annul the lease.
It prescribed a rule of conduct as to giving such leases in
the future, and concluded as follows: " And any alienation,
disposition, or grant will be subject to any rights and interest or the General government which may be involved,
and shall not extend beyond the time when the questions
relative to those rights and interest may be determined by
competent authority." It does not appear that the government ever took any action touching this lease. The order
could not, therefore, in any view, affect the rights .of the
parties. The court did not err in refusing to receive it n
evidence.
It has been strenuously insisted that the lease was made
by Kennedy without authority, was, therefore, void ab i2itio,
and, if this was not so, that its efficacy, upon the principle
of the jus post liminium, wholly ceased when the government
of the city was surrendered by the military authorities of
the United States to the mayor and council elected under
the.city charter.
Although the city of New Orleans was conquered and
taken possession of in a civil war waged on the part of the
United States to put down an insurrection and restore the
supremacy of the National government in the Confederate
States, that government had the same power and rights ii
territory held by conquest as if the territory had belonged
to a foreign country and had been subjugated in a foreign
* Freeman v. Howe, 24 Howard, 450; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wallace, 334.

894

NEIK ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

war.* In such cases the conquering power has a right to
displace the pre-existing authority, and to assume to such
extent as it may deem prpper the exercise by itself of all the
powers and functions of government. It may appoint all
the necessary officers and clothe them with designated
powers, larger or smaller, according to its pleasure. It may
prescribe the revenues to be paid, and apply them to its
own use or otherwise. It may do anything necessary to
strengthen itself and weaken the enemy. There is no limit
to the powers that may be exerted in such ctises, save those
which are found in the laws and usages of war. These
principles hive the sanction of all publicists who have considered the subject.
They have been repeatedly recognized and applied by
thia court.t In the case last cited the President had, by
proclamation, establishe'd in 1ew Orleans'a Provisional
Court for the State of Louisia na, and defined its jurisdiction. This court held the proclhmation a rightful exercise
of.the power of the executive, the court valid, and its decrees
binding upon the. parties brought before it. In such cases
-the laws of war take the place of the Constitution and laws
of the United States as applied in: time of peace. It follows
as a corollary from these propositions that the appointment
of Kennedy as mayor and of the Boards of Finance and of
Street Landings was valid, and that they were clothed with
the powers and duties which pertained to their respective
'positions.
It can hardly be doubted that to contract for the use of a
portion of the water-front of the eity during the continuance
of the military possession of the United States was within
the scope of their authority. But, conceding this to be so,
it is insisted- that when the military juirisdiction. terminated
the lease fell with it.,. We cannot take this View of the subject. The question arises whether the instrument was a
* The Prize Cases, 2 Black, 636; Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wallace,
417; Hauran v. The Insurance Company, 6 Id. 1.
t' Cross v. Harrison, 16 Howard, 164; Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 Id. 176;

The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 129.

Oct. 187.4.]

EW ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

895

Opinioh of the court.

fair and reasonable exercise of the authority under which it
was made. A large amount of money was to be expended
and was expended by the lessees. The lease was liable to
be annulled if the expenditures were not made and the work
done within the limited time specified. The war might last
many years, or it might at any time cease and the State and
city be restored to their normal condition. The improvements to be made were important to the welfare and prosperity of the city. The company had a right td use them
only for a limited time. The company was to kee ) them in
repair during the life of the lease, and at its termination
they were all to become the property of the city. In the
meantime tle rental of eight thousand dollars a year was to
be paid.
When the military authorities retired the rent nQtes unpaid were all handed over to the city. The city took the
place of the United States and succeeded to all their rights
under. the contract.* The company became bound to 'the
city in all respects as it had before begn bound to.the covenautees in the lease. The city thereafter collected one of
the notes subsequently due, and it holds the fund, without
an offer to return it, while conducting this litigation.. It is
also to be borne in mind that there has been no offer of
adjustment touching the lasting and valuable improvements
made by the company, nor is there any complaint that the
company has failed in any particular to fulfil their contract.
We think the lease was a fair and reasonable exercise of
the power vested in the military mayor and the two boards,
and that the injunction awarded by the court below was
properly decreed. Thejus post liminium and the law of nuisance have no application to the case.
We do not intend to impugn the general principle that
the contracts of the conqueror touching things in conquered
territory lose their efficacy when his dominion ceases.
We decide the.case upon its own peculiar circumstances,
which we think are sufficient to take it out of the rule.
*'

T4'
Uixited States s. McRie, 8 Law Reports, Equity Cases, 75.

396

NEW ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Hunt, J., concurrinh in the judgment.

We might, perhaps, well hold that the city is estopped
from denying the validity of the lease by receiving payment
of one of the notes, but we prefer to place our judgment
upon the ground before stated.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Justices CLIFFORD, DAVIS, and BRADLEY did not
hear the argument of this case, and did not participate in
the judgment.
Mr. Justice HUNT, concurring.
I cannot assent .to the proposition that the agents of the
city appointed by the conquering power which captured it
had authority to execute a lease of its levees and wharves
continuing more than nine years after the conquering power
had abdicated its conquest. If an extension of nine years
may be justified, it would be difficult to repudiate an extension for ninety years, if that case should be presented.
The lease under consideration was executed on the 8th day
of July, 1865, to bontinue for the term of ten years. On"
the 18th of March, 1866, eight months and ten days afterwards, the military authority of the United States was withdrawn and the civil authority rekumed its'sway. The lease
continued for that length of time during the military occupation of.the city, and by its terms was to continue nine
years, three 'months, Rild twenty days after the military dominion did in fact cease to exist. That the execution of
this lease was an- unwarranted assumption of power by the
agents who made it, I quote Halleck on International Law
and the Laws of War.* He uses this language:
"ยง4. Political laws, as a general rule, are suspended during the military occupation of a conquered territory. The
political connection between the people of such territory
and the state to which they belong is not entirely severed,
but is interrupted'or suspended so long as the occupation
continues. Their lands and immovable property are, there* Page 780,

4.

Oct. 1874.]

NEW

ORLANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

397

Opinion of Hunt, J., concurring in the judgment.

fore,, not subject to the taxes, rents, &c., usually paid to the
former sovereign. These, as we have said elsewhere, belong
of right to the conqueror, and lie may demand and receive
their payment to himself. They are a part of the spoils of
war, and the people of the captured province or town can
no more pay them to the former government than they can
contribute fluds or military ,munitions to assist, that government to prosecute the var. To do so would be a breach of
the implied conditions under which the people of a conquered territory are allowed to enjoy their private property
and to pursue their ordinary occupations,.and would render
the offeler liable to punishment. They are sublject to the
laws of the conqueror, and not to the orders of the displaced
government. Of lands and immovable property belonging
to the conqucred'state, the conqueror has, by the rights of
war, acquired the use so long as lie holds them. The fruits,
rents, and profits are, therefore, his; and lie may lawfully
claim and receive them. Any contracts or agreemeits,
however, which lie may make with individuals farming out
such property, will continue only so long as he retains coiitrol of them, and will cease on their restoration to, or recovery by, their former owner." To which he cites Ileff
ter;* Vattel ;t American Insurance (. v. Canler,.T atid other
authorities. See also, Thirty IRloqsheads of Sugar v. Boyle.ยง
The wharves aid levees now ii question were land and*
immovable property belonging to the conquered state. The
fruits and rents of them were spoils of war which belonged
to the conqueror so long as lie held the conquered state.
When the possession of the conqueror was at, in end, the
rights belonging to a conqueror ceased also. The spoils of
war do not belong to a state of peace.
It is said that although this.doctrine may be sound generally, it is not applicable to our receiit civil war. But why
not? The State of Louisiana was in rebellion against the
United States government. It had frrmally disavowed its
-- Droit International, ;4 131-133, 186.
t Droit des Gens, liv. 3, ch. 13,
: 1 P'eters, 542,

197, et seq.
9

ranch, 191.

898

NEW ORLE'ANS V.

STEAMSHIP COMPANY.,

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of Hunt, J., concurring in the judgment.

association with the United States, and had formally become
a member of another and hostile confederated government.
The United States invaded its territory and captured its
commercial metropolis, not figuratively or metaphoricall;,
but literally and physically ; with its ships, its iannon, and
its men it battered dowhl the -forts built for its protection
and drove out the armies by which it was defended. What
it thus acquired by military power, it retained by the same
,power.,
The armies of the-revolting States were overthrown, and
peace ensued. It was not, as the ancient historian said,

"solitudinem faciunt, pacem appellant," but rest, repose, and

-

rights restored. The State of Louisiana was again the soverei~in authority in which all the administrative power of
the State-was vested. The city of New Orleans as a representative of the State, and under its authority, possessed the
absolute control of its municipal powers, in the same manner
and'to the same extent as it-possessed and exercised them
before the existence of the war. The displaced government
resutfied its sway. The conqueror's possession ceased.
The"State of Lou'iiana and the Confederate government
were public enemies, not unsuccessful revolutionists merely.
The forts of the Confeder'te States were blockaded as those
of a foreign enemy, and vessels taken -in attempting to enter
them were adjudged prizes of war. A prize court is in its
very nature an international tribunal. Their captured soldiers were not shot as rebels, but were exchanged as prisoners of war. All-intercourse between the citizens of the
contending States was illegal, contracts were dissolved or
suspended, their property within ou.r States was confiscated
to the public upe. In short, we were at war with, them. It
is difficult to understand why le postliminy doctrine is not
applicable undei such circumstances.
In Fleming v. Page,* Chief Justice Taney says: "The port
of Tampico, at which the goods were shipped, and the Mexican Statd bf Tamaulipas, in which it is situated,were un*

9 Howard, 614, &c.

Oct. 1874.]

NEw ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

899

Opinion of Hunt, J,, concurring in the judgment.

doubtedly, at the time of the shipment, subject to the sovereignty and dominion of the United States. The Mexican
authorities had been driven' out or had submitted to our
army and navy; and the country was in the exclusiie'and'
firm possession of the United States, and governed by its
military authorities, acting under the order of the President.
But it does not follow that it was a part of the United States,
or that it ceased to be a foreign country in the sense in
which these words are used in the acts of Congress. ...
While it was occupied by our troops, they were in an enemy's country and not in their own; the inhabitants were
still foreigners and enemies, and owed to the United States
nothing more than the submissibn Lnd obedience, sometimes
called temporary allegiance, which iddue from a conquered enemy when he surrenders to a force which he is unable to
resist, Tampico, therefore (he says), was a foreign -port
when this shipment was made."
This case is authority to the proposition that conqueft
and temp6eary military possession do not alter the national
character of a city or port: As Tampico remained Mexican,
notwithstanding its conqqe.t by,our armies, so New Orleans,
so far as the jus post liminji is concerned, remained a part of
the Bouthern Confederacy.
,There is, however, another view of: the casethat may be'
taken.
The care, custodyand control of wharves and levees is
legitimately within the phw~r of the city. Like streets and
highways, they may be- open~ed or closed in the discretion
of the city. The mnode in Which they shall be used, how
.mfianiged and regulated, whether open to the use of all indifferently, whether portion's shall be set apart for particular
usesj'vhetler certain classes of business shall be confined to
particular localities, whether controlled by the immediate
agents of the city or managed by those to whom. the city
may lease them, are matters of p6fice regulation to be settled
by the authorities of the citjI.* In none of the cases il it -to,
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wallace, 86.

400

NEW ORLEANS V.

STEAMSHIP

COMPANY.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of Hunt, J., concurring in the judgment.

be assumed that the power will be wilfully exercised to the
injury of the city.
Iii my view, the agents of the city who made the lease of
July 18th, 1865, which we are now considering, exceeded
,the authority-they possessed. Their authority was limited
to the time of the possession and control of the lots by the
military anthority which appointed them. The making of
the lease, however, was not an illegal act in alny other sense
than that the agents had exceeded their powers. The excessive acts of those agents were capable or ratification, and
if ratified, were as binding upon the principal as if originally
authorized
Tt appears that the lessees gave their notes (one hundred
and twenty notes in number) for $666.66 each, payable
-monthly, for the whole amount or the rent to become due.
The first nine of the notes were paid to the mayor and
bureau acting under the military authority. The government of the city now in power was elected by the cifizens
according to law, in the ordinary manner, upon the resumption by the State and city of their civil powers, and was
vested with the entire authority of the city in respect to
whArves, levees, their management and control. Upon the
principles already stated, it had power to lease the levee and
wha f in question to the steamship company for the period
named in the lease. Prior to the war, it had leased portions
of its wharves t6 individuals, and had farmed out the collectiofi of the levee dues upon the entire wharves by sections.*
It came into possession of the city government upon the
election of its citizens on the 18th of March, 1866. Twentyfour days thereafter, to wit, on the 11th of April, 1866, the
note for $666.66 due three days previously, was paid to the
city government. At the same time all the other notes,
one hundred and eleven in number, were transfer'red by the
military government to the new city administration. These
notes were retained by the city until several nontl,s after
J to
the present action was begun,-when they were tend
1 Dillon on Municipal Corporations, U 43, 64, 67, 74, 181.

Oct.

1874.]

NEw ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

41

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

the plaintiff by supplemental answer. No tender was ever
made Qf the money, $666.66, received by the city upon the
note paid to it by the plaintiff for the rent due April 8th,
1866. It now holds and enjoys, to that amount, the rent
received by it under a lease which it seeks to repudiate.

The reception and holding of this rent is a clear and unqualified act of ratification, wvhich bars the defence of a want
of authority to execute the lease from which it issued. It is
in violation of every principle of honesty and of sound morality, that one should retain the benefit of the act of his
agent, and at the same time repudiate such act.*
A ratification once made, w-ith a knowledge of all the
material circumstances, cannot be recalled.t A-ratification
of a part of a contract ratifies the whole.1 One act of ratification is as complete and perfect in its effect as 'any numbei'
of acts of the same character.
For these reasons I am able to
CONCUR IN THE AFFIRMANCE OF THE JUDGMbNT.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
I am unable to agree with the majority of the court in the
judgment rendered. The power ofthe mayor and board
of New Orleans, appointed by the commanding general upon
the military occupation of that city, terminated with the
cessation of hostilities; and I am of opinion that no vhlid
alienation of any portion of the levee front and landing of
the city could be made by them for any period extending
beyond such occupation.
Assuming, as asserted, that the capture of New Orleans
gave to the military authorities of the Union the same rights
with respect to property there situated which would attend
the conquest of a foreign country, the result is not different.
A temporary conquest and occupation of a country do not
* Story on Agency, H 239, 240, 252-3--9; Bissell v. Michigan Southern
and Northern Indiana Railroad Company 22 New York. 258; Parrish v.
Wheeler, 1b. 504; Perkins v. Washington Insurance Co., 4 Cowen- 645;
Peterson v. Mayor, 17 New York, 449.
- Story on Agency, 242.
1 Ib. and 250.
VOL. XX.

26

402

NEW ORLEANS V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

[SUp.

Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

change- the title to immovable property, or authorize its
alienation. They confer only the rights of possession and
use. Whe.n the military- occupation ceases, the property
reverts totthe original owner with the title unimpaired.
Of lands and immovable property belonging to the state,"
says Halleck, "the conqueror has by the rights of war acquired the use so long as he holds them. The fruits, rents,
and profits are, therefore, his; and he may lawfully claim
and receive them, but contracts or agreements, however,
which he may make with individuals farming out such property, will continue only so long as he retains control of
them, and will cease Qn their: restoration to or recovery by
their former owner."* Such is the language of all publicists and-jurists, and there is nothing in the circumstances
attending the military occupation of New Orleans by our
forces -which calls for any modification of the well-established rule of public law on this subject. The fact that New
Orleans is a part of one of the States of the Union certainly
ought not to be deemed a reason for enlarging the power of
the military commander, but on the contrary would seem to
be good ground for restricting it.
It appears to me to be perfectly clear that, according to
settled doctrines of public law, questioned by no publicists,
but everywhere recognized, the authorities of New Orleans
were restored t6 as complete control over the levee front and
landing of the city upon the cessation of the military occupation as they possessed previously, and had, in consequence,
a perfect right to remove all obstacles to the public use of
such levees and landings.
I do iot see any ground for the application of the doctrine
of ratification in the case. The civil authorities of the city
were restored to power in March, 1866, and in April following they asserted their right to .remove the obstructions to
the levees created by the steamship company, and took steps
to enforce it. In this proceeding they repudiated instead of
ratifying-the action of their military predecessors. The one
* On International Law, chap. 32,

4.

Oct. 1874.]

Oct.
LYON'V.
184.] POLLARD.'40

40)3

Syllabus.

hundred and eleven unpaid notes of the -company received
by -their predecessors have been deposited in court subject
to the company's order, and the failure to restore oi'-tend.er
the proceeds of one note, amotinting to six hundred aiid
sixty'six dollars, previously Paid, may be justified or -exY
plained on'gounds consistent with the repudiation of the
lease. Ratification of unauthorized acts of public agents,
or persons assuming to be public agents, can 6nly be, inferred from conduct indicating an intention to adopt the acts
and inconsistent with any other purpose. The alienation by"
sale or lease of any portion of the public levees and landings of the dity after the restoration of its civil authorities
could only be nade, if at all, by ordinance or rdsolution of
its common council, and it may be doubted whether there
could be a ratification of an unaditlorized alienatiorl, attempted by their predecessors, by any proceeding less direc
and formal.
I am of opinion, therefore, that the decree of the 'court
below should be-reversed, and the bill be dismissed.

LYON V. POLLARD.
1, Where a person agreed to serve in suiperintending a: large hotel foanother, at a compensation specified, either party being at liberty to terminate the contract on thirty days'-notice to the 6ther, and the.person
agreeing to superintend was ejected by the other on. less than thirty
days' notice, held, in a suit for damages b3y the party thus ejected-the'
general issue being pleaded and notice of special matter given-that the"
defendant might prove that the. party ejected, was unfit to perform his
duty by reason of the use of opiates, and by reason of unsound mental
condition..
2. Where by the terms of a contract a,'partv is bound to give' thirty days'
notice of an intention to terminate it, andhaving given the notice "fterr
wards waives it, he may in fact. renew the notice, though the form of his
communicati6n purport tp insist on the notice which he has waived;
and at the expiration of the required time the secolid document will
operate as a notice.

