Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.

201

Statement of the ease.

mine and report the true actual capacity, and not what the
distillery will produce in the distiller's proposed mode of
running it. There is, therefore, no well-founded objection
to the conclusiveness of the survey in this case, and as the
tax assessed and collected was in accordance with the survey,
the plaintiffs have no right of action to recover it back.
Nor is there any su'ch hardship as is suggested. We have
seen that a report of the surveyor's determination of producing capacity is by the law required to be placed ii the
hands of the distiller before he commences business. If
dissatisfied with- it, he may apply to the commissioner for
another survey. He is thus infornied of the extent of his
liability to taxation. He has, therefore, little reason to complain, when he commences distilling, and does not produce

at least eighty per'.cent. Of what his distillery can produce,
as determined by the survey, if he is taxed according to a
standard which is not filse, and of which he had thus early
notice.

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE LOTTAWANNA.
1. It is error and ground of reversal for a Circuit Court to affirm a decree in
admiralty of the District Court, and at the same time dismiss the appeal.
2. Where 9laims on the proceeds in the registry of a vessel sold are not maritime liens, the District Court cannot distribute those proceeds in payment of the claims if the owners of the vessel oppose such distribution.
8. A creditor by judgment in a State court, of the owners of the vessel, even
though he have a decree inpersonamalso in the admiralty against them,
cannot seize, or attach, on execution, proceeds uf the vessel in the registry of the admiralty.
4. Where an appeal is taken to the Circuit Court from the decree of the District Court in a proceeding in rem, the property or its 'proceeds follows
the cause into the former court.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana; the case-divested of irrelative .incidents, with a great
number of which, as seen in the record, it bad come here
confused and perplexed-w'as thus:

THE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In the year 1819 this court, in The GeneraSmith,*decided,
as the profession has generally understood, that in respect
to repairs or necessaries furnished to a ship in the port or
State to which she belongs, no lien is implied unless it is
recognized by the municipal law of the State; declaring the
rule herein different from that where the repairs or- necessaries are furnished to a foreign ship; in which case the
general 'maritime law gives the party a lien on the ship
itself for his security.
In view of this decision most or all of the States enacted
laws giving a lien f6r the protection of material-men in such
cases.
In the year 1833, in the case of The .Planter (Peyroux v.
.Howard),t the converse of the rUle in The General Smith was
laid down, and process against a vessel in- her home port
was used and supported, the State law giving a lien in the
case.
In 1844, this court, acting inpursuance of acts of Congress
which authorized it to adopt rules of practice in the courts
of the United States in causes-of admiralty and maritime
jurisdictionj (and adhering to the practice declared as
proper in the cases mentioned), adopted the following Rule
of Practice:
"RULE XII.

"In all suits by material-men for supplies, repairs,. or other
necessariVs for a foreign ship, or for a ship in a foreign port, the
libellant may proceed against the ship and freight in rem, or
against the master and owner alone in personam; and the like
proceeding in rem shall apply to cases of domestic ships, where
by the local law a lien is given to material-men for supplies, repairs, and othler necessaries."
On the 1st of May, 1859, a new twelfth rule was adopted
as a substitute for the one above given. It was thus:
t 7 Peters, 324.
4 Wheaton, 443..
Acts of May 8th, 1792 (1 Stat. at Large, 276), and of August'23d, 1842
(5 Id. 516).

Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.
Statement of the case.

"RULE XII.

"In all suits by material-men, for supplies or repairs, or other
necessaries for a foreign ship, or for a ship in a foreigp port, the
libellant may proceed against the ship or freight in rem, or
against the master or owner alone in personam. And the like
proceedings in personam, but not in rem, shall apply in cases of
domestic ships for supplies, repairs, or other necessaries."
The reasons for the substitution of this latter rule for the
former one are stated by Taney, 0. J., in the case of The
Sleamer St. Lawrence,* to have been that in some cases the
State laws giving liens, and the constructions put oil them
by State courts, werd found not to harmonize with the principles and rules of the maritime code, and embarrassed the
Federal courts in applying them.
With the case of The General Sinith, and others following
it, unreversed, and with the substitutecltwelfth rule inforce,
two sailors, on the 30th December, 1870, filed libels in the
District Court, at New Orleans, against the steamer Lottawaiia, claiming wages. The libel alleged that the vessel
when they shipped was in the port of New Orleans and was
making voyages between that port and various ports and
places on the Red River and its tributaries, and it was thus,
and inferentially, to be gathered thlat New Orleans was the
home port of the vessel.
By. consent of the owners the vessel was subsequently sold
tinder an order of court, and the proceeds, $10,500, were
brought into the registry. ,P
In the meantime about fbty different persons intervened,
claiming in the aggregate $35,000. Some were sailors,
claiming wages. That their claims were a lien on the fund
was conceded. But the majority of the clainis (in amount
$32,804) were for stores, materials for repairs, or for labor
and supplies of different sorts furnished to the vessel in the
port of New Orleans;,the port which, as above said, was apparently her home port, thouglffthe fact that it was so was
* 1 Black, 529.

9:HE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup.' Ct.

Statement of the case.

nowhere distinctly asserted, nowhere in any way denied,
and nowhere in aiiv way proved.
Among the interveners claiming a share of the fund for
supplies furnished to the vessel, in the port of New Orleans,
were two firms, Wilson & 'Co. and Chaffee & Brother; the
forner claining $8091 and'the latter $10,896.
None of the interveners alleged in diiect terms that they
had any hiaritimne lien on the vessel, or its proceeds, or
prayed for process to enfore such a lien; though the libels
of some of them- contained a prayer that the court would
.decree the payment of the intervener's claim with privilege
bo the vesgel or its proceeds.
There was also a firm, Bell &.Kennett, who claimed the
wholte fund in the registry. This firm had .had something
to do with the vessel, and had sued its owners and got judgmen't against th.ei in one of the State courts of Louigiana;
the Siktth District Court for the Parish of Orleans. On this
judgment they issued execution and attached the funds in
the registry of the District Court. They also had decrees
in-personam against the owners in the admiralty.
A report of a commissioner appointed by the District
Court to report distribution showed, that after deducting
costs of the marshal, registrar, &d.,
.
The net proceeds of sale in the registry were
That the sailors' .wages (the only admitted admiralty liens)
amounted to..

$9,405

Leaving a balance of ..

$6,776

2,629

The question was, to whom was this balance to be paid?
Bell & Kennett claimed the whole of it, under their attachment in ekecution.
Wilson & Co., Chaffee & Brother, and the other interveners at New Orleans, for supplies furnished in that port,
opposed this claim, and-asserting that on an accountjustly
taken between the said Bell & Kennett and the owners of the
vessel, it'would appeal- that the former were indeb6ted to the
owners, and not the owners to them-were not willing even
that Bell & Kennett should come pari passu on the fund;
much less that they should sweep it all away.

Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.
Statement of tho case.

The commissioner divided the sum ratably between all
the interveners, including' with theni Bell & Kennett. The
owners opposing this, he made a second report, remarking
that the only admiralty liens in the case were the claims for
sailors' wages (which had now been paid), and that the
claims of Wilson & Co., Chaffee & Brother, and the other

interveners were not such lips'; that though where the
owners did not oppose such distribution, a fund in the.
registry might properly be distributed to material-men, &
claimants on it for supplies furnished to the shiP, who yet
had no admiralty lien in remn yet that it could not be so distributed if the owners did oppose. the distribution, this principle being settled by the cases of The Mailland,* and The
ATeplune,t and not departed from except in the case of remnants unclaimed by the owner. The commissioner concluded, therefore, that nothing could be done but pay the
fund either to the owners, or to the sheriff of the parish of
Orleans to answer his execution and attaching process; and
this last he recommended as the more just disposition of the
money.
Upon the case coming before the District Court on exceptions to this report, that court, December, 1871, decreed
that the interveners mentioned by the commissioner'should
be dismissed, and that the fund shojild be paid, 4sthe commissioner had suggested, to the sheriff, to answer' the process issued in the suit of-Bell & Kennett against the owners.
From this decree of the District Court the. interveners
took the case to the Circuit Court, and moved in the District
Couirt that the money in the registry there should be transferred to the registry of the Circuit Court. This motion the
District Court denied, and the moneys were paid over to
Bell &'Kennett. Ii*1 the Circuit Court objection was made,
as also it had been made before, to the regularity of the appeal, on account of some matteis of form. The Circuit
Court affirmed the judgment of the District Court, but at
the same time dismissed the appeal.
* 2 Haggard's Admiralty, 254.
t 3 Id. 130; S. C. on appeal, 3 Knapp, 711.

THE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. Cr.

Argument for the material-men.

From this decree Wilson & Co. and Chaffee & Brother
brought the case here by appeal; Bell & Kennett being the
appellees.
Reference has been made in the opening part of this statement of the case, to the decision in the case of The'General
Smith, decided A.D. 1819, and other cases; and to the two
different twelfth rules in admiralty.
In diferent cases coming here about eight years ago,*especially in The Moses Taylor and in The Hine v. Trevor,this court decided that the grant of admiralty jurisdiction
given by the Judiciary Act to Federal courts is exclusive,
that State statutes which attempt to confer on State courts
a.remedy for marine contracts or torts by proceedings strictly
in rem, are void. And on the 6th of May), 1872, after the
present suit was brought, the twelfth rule of 1859, itself an
amendment of the rule of1844, was thus amended anew:
(jIn all suits by materialzmen.for supplies or repairs or other
necessaries, the libellant may proceed against the ship and
freight in rem, or.against the master or owner alone in personam."
The twenty-sixth rule in admiralty (having no connection,
however, with any of the preeding matters, but yet adverted to in the argument), says:
,,In suits ih rem, the party claiming the property shall verify
his claim on oath or solemn affirmation, stating that the claimant by whom ol on. whose behalf the claim is made is the true
and bond fide Qwner, and that- no other person is the owner
thereof."
Messrs. J. A. Grow and L. H. Ddy, for the appellants:
1. The. claims of all the interveners were for materials,
supplies, repairs, and other necessaries furnished to the boat,
undoubted admiralty contracts.
Though under the twelfth rule in admiralty adopted by
* The Mloses.Taylor, 4 Wallace, 411 (December Term, 1866); The Hine
v. Trevor, lb. 555; afid see the Rock Island Bridge, 6 Id. 213; The Belfast,
7 Id. 624; Leon v. Galceran, 11 Id. 185.

Oct. 1873.]

THE L OTTAWANNA.
Argument for the material-men.

this court in 1859 they could not have proceeded in rem,
against this boat, if New Orleans was her home port, yet it
is very questionable whether New Orleans was so. No person filed any claim for the vessel, or.her proceeds, according
to the twenty-sixth admiralty rule. Consequently there was
no one entitled to be heard as owner, nor is there any evidence in the record to show where the owners reside. But
the twelfth rule, as made in 1859, was altered in May, 1872,
by this court, and the persons who intervened could now
undoubtedly proceed in rem, ng matter where the owners
reside. The history of the decisions and rules applicable to
the matter shows that the court has always meant t6 protect
by a lien, enforceable somewhere, persons furnishing supplies in
the home port as much as those furnishing them in a foreign
port. The GeneralSmith, and Peyroux v. .Howard(The Planter),
enabled such persons to enforce in the admiralty liens when
given by the Stale law, and as liens were given by the law of
all the States the protection was complete. But this adfiinistration of State lien laws through admiralty courts was
found to cause trouble, as explained by Taney, C. J., in The
Steamer St. Lawrence, and in 1859 the new twelfth rule of
practice relegated in effect the furnishers in home ports to
their home cburts, where they were still abundantly protected. But The Moses Taylor,- ana The Hine v. Trevor, in
December Term, 1866, decided that this was unlawful. Furnishers in home ports were thus left quite unprotected so
far as a capacity to, enforce a li~n was concerned.. They
could not utidel,.the'twelfth rile of 1859 sue in the admiralty; nor under'the two cases just mentioned enforce admiralty liens in State courts. What in these circumsta.noe's
did this court do ? Availing itself of the power given to it
by Congress it enacted the twelfth rfile of May, 1872. It
plainly meant by this rule to"give a remedy in rem to furnishers in home porfs, alid-to 'annul The General Smith,. and
Peyroux v- Howdrd. The law and rules of'this court, as they
now exist, must govern, and not those that .eisted when
the'suit was brought.*
* The Peggy, 1 Oranch, 103.

THE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the material-men.

But this court had jurisdiction to distribute these proceeds
among the interveners, even if the vessel was in her home
port, and the parties not entitled to proceed in rem. So well
settled is this principle that text-books declare it as elementary. Parsons* says:
" Where a vessel, or other property against which a suit is
brought, is sold, and brought into the registry, the power of the
court to distribute these proceeds is unquestioned."
And agaih:t
"When a lien is waived by intendment of law, or lost by
neglect to enforce it within a proper time, it has been held that
the claim may be enforced against the proceeds."
But the interveners have admiralty liens; they are material-men, and though not entitled to process in rein in consequence of the twelfth rule in admiralty, as it existed when
this suit was brought, they still all intervened for claims
founded upon admiraltv contracts, which would create an
implied maritime hypothecation and lien.
In The Steamer.S. Lawrence, this court allowed a materialman a lieu for supplies furnished in the home port of the
vessel after the repeal of the origifial or first twelfth rule il
admiralty; not on the ground ftrat a State statute gave it,
as the State could not confer jurisdiction on the Federal
eourts;,but on the ground that the party had an admiralty
contract, and that his proceedings were begun before the
repeal of the first twelfth rule.
Aiid in The Kalorama, and The Caster,. this court held
that 'it was noobjection to the assertion of an admiralty lien
against a vessel for supplies, that the owner was present and
ordered them.
2. The proceeds in the registry cannot be attached by the
process issued from a common-law cout.§ In The Albert'
aosby,j ]5r. Lushington said:
* On Shipping and Admiralty, vol 2, p. 281.

: 10 Wallace, 204.
2 Parsons on Shipping and Admiralty, 235.
II 1 Lushington's Admiralty, 44.

t Ib. 288.

. -Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.
Argument for the material-men.

"I should certainly interfere by attaching any person.who
would meddle with any registrar."
8. The District Court should have transferred the proceeds of the sale of the steamer Lottawanna to the registry
of the Circuit Court. If the cause was one proceeding ih
rem, the res involved (or the proceeds if converted into
money), passed from the District Court to that of the Circuit Oourt.*
We therefore ask of this court that the decree of the District and Circuit Courts be reversed; that the claim of Kennett& Bell be dismissed; that they deposit in the registry
of the Circuit Court the amount which they received,'with
interest; that the claims of the appellants be recognized as
admiralty liens against it, and that the money be paid over
to them in propbrtion to their respective claims.
'Messrs. Durantand Hornor, con.ra:
1. The point decided by the District Court in its confirmation of the corrimissioner's report was, that where intervenets in admiralty have no admiralty lien the proceeds of the
sale of the steamboat will not be distributed, if. there is-any
opposition to such distribution. That was quite right as the
cases cited by him show. It is clear that the powers and
jurisdiction of a bankruptcy or of an equitf court would
be engrafted upon our admiralty courts, were they to atteibpt
to make distribution of tile proceeds of the sale iu their
registries, in the mode contended for by appellees, in all cases
in which a .surplus should result. Suppose, for example,
that a vessel should be libelled at her home port ulpon a claim
for maritime wages of $50, and should be sold for $20,000,
and the proceeds in the registry, amounting to $19,95,"
should be claimed by creditors of the owners who had no
admiralty liens, it is obvious that by indirection the creditors
would be extending aiid. enlarging the jurisdiction of the admiralty court so as to embrace causes which could not have
been enforced directly and in the fii'st instance as against
* The Collector, 6 Wheatonr14; Davis v. Senecar Gilpin, 34..

VOL. XX.

14

TH~E

[Sup. Ct.

LO0TTAWANNAo

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the vessel. This would be a great abuse of the admiralty
jurisdiction. The admiralty judge, when there is no admiralty lien, can only proceed to the distribution of the surpl'us
in the registry when an act of Congress directs him so to
do.*
2. Holding the money of the owners in the registry of
the admiralty liable to the garnishee process under execution, of the same or any other admiralty court, is within the
necessary incidental jurisdiefion of the admiralty. The
anal6gy is perfect between the present case and that of Jones
v. Avdrews.t
Mr. Justice CLIFFORDdelivered the opinion of the court.
Complicated, as the record is, it will be impossible to state
the questions presented for decision, in a manner to be understood, without referring to the original proceedings in the
.District Court, as the suit, when it was commenced, was a
libel in rem filed by two mariners, J. D. Cox and J. N. Geren,
against the steamboat Lottawanna, her tackle, apparel, machinery, and furniture, in a cause of subtraction of wages,
civil and maritime.
Prior to the institution of the suit the allegation is that
the steamer had been engaged in commerce and navigation
between the port of New Orleans and various other ports
and places on Red River and its tributaries, and that the
libellants, during that period, were duly employed by the
master as the pilots of the steamer, anid that they continued
in that employmeit for the respective periods and at the
monthly wages specified in the libel. They also allege that
they faithfully performed their respective duties, as such
pilots, and that there is due to them the respective sums
charged in the schedule exhibited in the record. Wherefore they pray for process agaitzst the steamer, &c., and that
she may be condemned and sold to pay their respective
claims.
Pursuant to the prayer of the libel a warrant was issued,
* McLane v. tTn!itec States, '6 Peters, 404.

t 10 "Wallace, 827.

Oct. 1873.]

THE

LOTTAWANNA.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

and the return of the marshal shows that he seized fhe
steamer and that he published a monition, citing and admonishing the owners, and all others claiming any right,
title, or interest in the steamer, to appear, on a day therein
named, at thie District Court, and show cause, if any they
have, why the prayer of the libel should not be granted. Subsequently, on the same day, the libellants -iled apetition in
the District Court, representing that the steamer was expensive to keep and perishable, and prayed for an order that
she might be sold.
.Onthe same day, also, Moses Morgan filed an aflidavit in
the case, stating that he owned three-fourths of the steamer,
and tbhit he had no objection. that she should be sold, and
the record shows that the court immediately passed an order
that the steamer be sold by the marshal; he giving legal notice of the sale, and thai the proceeds be deposited in the
registry, subject to the-'firther order of the court. Nothing
is exhibited to show that there was any irregularity in the
sale, and it appears that the proceeds, amounting to ten
thousand five hundred dollars, were deposited in the registry
of the court.
Before the other owner of the steamer, Philip Work, appeared, seventeen libels of intervention were filed in the
court against the proceeds of the sale of the steamer, embracing some forty interveners, with claims for wages as mariners, and claims for materials for repairs, and for stores and
supplies, and for money loaned for the steamer, or for the
individual owners, and to pay for debts contracted by the
master, or owners, for repairs and supplies during a period
of two or more years.
On the fourth of February, 1871, more than a month after
the original libel was filed, Philip Work appeared and filed
a claim that he was the owner of the other undivided fourth
part of the steamer, and he excepted to all of the libels of
intervention except the one filed by the, mariners, being the
libel of intervention first named in the record, and updn
three grounds, and prayed that the interventions might b6
dismissed: (1.) Because the court was without jurisdiction,

TnE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. Ot,

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

ratione materice, of the matters alleged in the several libels.
(2.) Because the court was without jurisdiction to entertain
the intervention' or to adjudicate thereon, for the reason
that all of the owners of the steamer, at the date of the
several causes of action set forth, were citizens of that State
and resided in the city of New Orleans, at which port the
steamer was registered and enrolled. (3.) Because the respective interveners didbnot, on filing their libels, give stipulations, with sureties, to abide the final decree rendered in
the case, and Ito pay costs, as required by the rules in admiralty proceedings.
Intervention was subsequently claimed by other parties
and other directions were given, which it becomes important
to -notice, in order to have a full view~of all the material proceedings in the District Court.
Libels in personaam were also filed by the appellees and by
John Chaffee and Charles Chaffee, who are the last-named
appellants. By the transcript it appears that the libel of the
appellees was tiled on the sixth of February, 1871, and that
the libel of the said appellants was filed on the following
day. Service of th original monition was made January
first, 1871, and on the seventh of February succeeding the
court passed an order that the delay allowed by law having
expired, and no answer having been filed, that all persons
interested in the property seized be pronounced in contumacy and default, and that the libel in the principal case be
adjudged and taken pro confesso.
On the thirteenth of the same month the court entered a
decree in favor of the libellants, as follows: that J. D. Cox
recover the sum of one thousand threehundred and six dollars, and that J. N. Geren, the other libellant, recover the
sum of six hundred and seventy-four dollars and twentyeight cents, from which decree neither the libellants nor the
owners of the steamer have ever appealed.
On the third of MAarch, 1871, subsequent to the said decree, Jesse K. Bell filed a libel of intervention, claiming the
sum of two thousand two htmdred dollars, as paid by him
on two claims for fuel furnished to the steamer by the per-

Oct. 1873.1

THE LOTTAWANNA.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

sons named in the libel. Leave was granted to the applicant
to file the libel, and on the same day the court passed an
order that the cause be referred to a commissioner to report
upon a tableau of distribution, arid to classify the various
claims according to law, giving all parties a right to take
further evidence before the coinmissioner.
Since that time further libels of intervention have been
filed as follows, to wit: one by J. Sharp AhDona'ld,"on the
eighteenth of the same month, for five hundred and f6rty
boxes of coal; another by Thomas Onley & Co., on the
thirty-first of the same month, for services, the account being
approved by the master and by the mate; and one other by
Chri'stian & Hyatt, on the second of Mby in the same'year,
for stationery furnished'for the use of the -steamer.
Besides the libel filed by the two pilots, a libel in rem was
also filed by the mate against the steamer, on the thirtieth of
Decem ei, 1870, for the balance due hiii for wages, and the
record sh0.ivs that the court, on the tenth of February next
after the commenicement of the suit, entered a decree in his
favor for the amount claimed and taxable costs.
M6rgan and Work failed, to answer the: suit in personam
of Kennett & Bell against them, and the court, on the twentieth df Novpmber 1871, passed an order that the libel be
taken' pro confesso, auid.that a decree: be'entered in fa~or of
the libellants, and three days. later it was ordered that the
suit be donsolidated:with the record in the original suit in
rem against the steamer.
Different proceedings tbok place in the suit in pei'sonam commenced- by Chaffee & Brotlibr, as Joseph Morgan ap-peared on the same day and confessed judgmeht in favor of
the libellants for the sum of ten" thousand eight" bundred
and ninety-six dollars and fifty-six cents, 'with eight per
cent. interest from the twenty-third of January precdding.
Judgment was accordingly rendered in their favor against
Morgan for that amount. Work made.default, and a decree, dated June 1s,t, 1871, was entered against him for the
same amount in favor of the same libellants.
Report in due form was made by the commissioner, on

THE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. 0t.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the fourth of May in the same year. He decided that none
of the creditors, presenting claims for repairs and supplies,
had any right to libel the steamer in her home port, and
recommended that the proceeds in the registry of the court
be distributed as follows: First, that all legal costs be paid
in full. Secondly, that all claims of the seamen for wages
be paid in full. Thirdly, that all claims for labor, supplies,
uind materials for repairs, be paid pro rata, according to the
schedule of claims annexed to the report.
Exceptions of various kinds were filed to the report of the
commissioner: (1.) That certain claims were allowed which
were not due from the owners of the steamer, or were, in
whole or in part, improperly classified as claims for stores
or for supplies and repairs. (2.) That the schedule improperly includes claims not having any maritime lien on the
steamer or the proceeds in the registry of the court, nor
entitled t6 any preference by attachment or otherwise. (3.)
That the compensation charged by the commissioner is excessive.
Pending the hearing of the exceptions to the report of the
coll mnissioner the court-passed an order that the claims for
costs and the claims of the seamen for wages should be paid,
and it appears that the order was promptly carried into effect,
but the residue of the report was finally referred back to
the commissioner for further proceedings. In the meantime
the appellees here, having obtained judgment against the
owners of the steamer in their suit inpersonam, sued out a
garnishee process from the sixth District Court of the State,
anc1 attempted to attach the proceeds as money in the hands
of the clerk of the District Court. All parties were again
heard by the commissioner, and, on the fourth of June following, he made a supplemental report. Iu his second report, he decided that, where there is a maritime lien upon
the vessel, the lien, will attach to the proceeds in case the
vessel is sold, and the proceeds are paid into the registry of
the court, but where there is no maritime lien upon the
vessel, that the proceeds should not be distributed, if the
ownors make opposition to the application, unless the appli-

Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.
Restatement of the dase in the opinion.

cants prove that they have some legal or equitable interest.in
the subject-matter, and the commissioner being of the opinion that the interveners had no maritime lien, reported that
the proceeds remaining in the registry of the court could
not be distributed for their benefit in this case, and recommended that the court order either that the proceeds be paid
over to the owners of the steamer or to he sheriff who seized
the same in the hands of the clerk acting as registrar, under
the garnishee process.
Seasonable exceptions were filed to the report by many
of the interveners opposed in interest to its conclusions, including the last-named appellants. Due notice having been
giyen, the parties were heard, and the court entered a .decree that all the interventions in the cause, founded on
claims which are not liens in admiralty, be dismissed at the
cost of the respective parties- All such parties, including
the last-named appellants here, claimed an appeal to the
Circuit Court, and the record shows that the appeal in their
behalf was duly allowed, and that they filed an appeal bond,
executed to the owners of the steamer and the appellees in
this court. Certain other interveners also petitioned for an
appeal, and the court passed an order granting it, without
requiring any additiond bond, in consequence of which
omission the present appellees, on the twentieth of December following, moved the District Court to set aside and diqmiss the last-named appeal, and the record shows that the
court, on the twenty-fifth of January following, granted the
motion and vacated and annulled the appeal.
Seamen's wages and 6osts having been paid, the interveners whose appeal was allowed moved the court; on the
eleventh of January, 1872, that the fund in the registry of
the court be transferred to the Circuit Court, 'vhich motion
was for a time held under advisement. During that period
the District Court, on the sixth of February following, entered a decree that the proceeds in the registry of the court
be applied, first, to the satisfaction of the judgment of the
pre.sent appellees against the oWners of the steamer; and,

THE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

second, that the balance, if any, be paid' over to Chaffee'&
Brother, seizing creditors, next in rank.
Application for an appeal by Chaffee & Brother was made
on the following day, and on the twenty-sixth of the same
month the court qverruled the motion to transfer the fund
into the Circuit Court, and the last-named motion for an appeal, and ordered that the fund be paid over as directed in
the order previously given upon that subject. Chaffee &
Brother, however, were among the petitioners for the appeal which was previously allowed by the court, and their
names appear in the bond which was filed to prosecute the
appeal, but they vvere libellants in personam and not strictly
interveners in the original suit prosecuted in ren by the two
pilots.
Copies of all the material orders, directions, and proceedings in the original suit, and in the several suits of Allen v.
The Steamer, -Kennelt & Bell v. The Owners, and ChajIfe &
Brother v. The Owiers, were sent to the Circuit Court under
the certificate of the clerk of the District Court, together
with-copies of all documents filed and of the minutes of all
the evidence introduced in those several cases, and the case
was entered in the Circuit Court, on the twenty-ninth of
May, 1872, under the title of J. D. Cox et al. v. The Steamer,
which is the title of the original suit in the District Court,
from which no appeal was ever taken, either by the libel]ants or the owners.
Appearance was eitered by Kennett & Bell, and they
moved to dismiss the appeal for the following reasons: (1.)
Because the appeal was discharged in the District Court,
which is not sustained by the record. (2.) Because the bond
filed is irregular and not such as the law requires; and the
Circuit Court having affirmed the decree of the District
Court granted the motion to dismiss.
Immediate application for an appeal to this--6ourt was
made by the present appellants, which was allowed by the
Circuit Court, and the petitioners gave bond with surety to
the present appellees et als. to pay all such damages as they

Tim .LOTTAWANNA.

Oct. 1873.]

. Opinion of the court.

may recover against the appellants, in case it should be decided that the appeal was wrongfully obtained.
Irrespective of the question whether thq appeal is regular
or. irregular it is quite clear that the decree of the Circuit
Couft must be reversed, as one part of it is repugnant to
anoth part. Plainly, if the appeal vas regular, it was
error to dismiss it; and if it was so irregular tbhtt it became
the duty of the court to dismiss it, the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction to aiffirm tlhe decree of the District Court. Cases
of admiralty and marititme jurisdiction, where the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value of fifty
dollars, may be. removed from the District Court into the
Circuit Court by appeal, and theprovision is that such appeals shall be subject to the same rules, regulations, and
restrictions as are prescribed by law in case of writs of error.*
Jurisdiction .in such case§ is given to the appellate court by
the appeal or writ of error, as the case may be, which ceases
to exist, even if regular, when the appeal or writ of error is
dismissed, or if not regular in essential particulars, then jurisdiction does not attach for the purpose of affirming the decree upon the merits.t Argument to su1iport these conclusions is not necessary, as they are self-evident, but inasmuch
as the case must be remanded for a new hearing, it becomes
necessary to examine some of the questions which the anomalous proceedings present for consideration;
Most of the claims of the interveners were for stores, materials for repairs, or for labor and supplies furnished to the
steamer, either at the request of the master or at the request
of one or both of the owners, in the home port of the vessel.
More than half a centuiy ago this court decided, in The
General Smilh, that where repairs and supplies are furnished
to a ship in her home port, or in a port of the State to which
the ship belongs, that no maritime lien is implied, nor any
other lien unless it is given by the local law, by which the
rights of the parties in such a case is altogether governed.
*2 Star. at Large, 244.

t 1 1d. 84.

14.Wheaton, 448.

THE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Where necessary repairs have Be.en made or necessary supplies furnished to a foreign ship, or to a ship in a port of a
State to which the ship does not belong, the general maritime law, as all agree, gives the party a lien on the ship
itself for his security, which may be enforced in the admi"raltyby a proceeding in ren; but the court decided, in'the
case before mentioned, that as to such repairs and supplies
furnished to a ship in her home port, or in a port of the
State to which the ship belongs, the case is governed by the
local law, and that no lien arises unless given by the local
law. All the Federal courts were governed by those rules
for years, and little or no difficulty arose in practice, as most
or all of the States enacted laws giving a lien fbr the protection of material-men in such cases, and this court adopted a
rule authorizing a proceeding in rem against domestic ships,
"where by the local law a lien was given to secure the payment of contracts in such cases for supplies, repairs, or other
necessaries." Since that time, however, that rule has been
repealed and a new one adopted in its place, which does not
authorize a proceeding in rem, except where there is a claim
founded on a maritime lien against a foreign ship, or against
a ship in a foreign port, or the port of a State other than
that to which the ship belongs.* Attempts were made by
the States to obviate the embarrassment which grew out of
"the repeal of that rule, and the adoption of the new rule
withdrawing the use of the process in rem from the District
Courts to enforce the payment of claims for repairs and supplieg- furnished to domestic ships, but this court decided in
several cases that the State legislatures could not create a
maritime lien, nor could they confer jurisdiction upon a
State court to enforce such a lien by a suit or proceeding in
rem as practiced in the admiralty courts.t
* The Lulu, 10 Wallace, 192; The Belfast, 7 Id. 644; Leon v. Galceran,
11 Id. 191; Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Id. 538; The St. Lawrence, 1 Black,
522. •
t The Moses Taylor, 4 Wallace, 430; The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Id. 571; The
Belfast, 7 Id. 644; Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Id. 534; Leon v. Galceran,
11 Id. 192.

Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.
Opinion of the court.

Much embarrassment has existed ever since the old twelfth
admiralty rule was repealed, as the new rule makes no provision to enforce the payment of contracts for repairs and
supplies furnished to domestic ships, except by a libel in
personam. Repeated judicial attempts have been made to
overcome the difficulty, none of which have proved satisfactory, because they failed to provide a remedy in the admiralty by a proceeding in rem. Inconven{ences of the kind
have been felt for a long time, until the bench and the bar
have come to doubt whether the decision that a maritime
lien does not arise in a contract for repairs and supplies furnished to a domestic ship is correct, as it is clear that the
contract is a mariime contract, just as plainly as the contract
to furnish such repairs and supplies to a foreign ship or to
a domestic ship in the port of a State other than that to
which the ship belongs.* Such a remedy is not given even
in the latter case, unless the repairs and supplies were furnished on-the credit of the ship, and it is difficult to see why
the same remedy may not be given in the former case if the
repairs and supplies were obtained by the master on the
same terms.t These and many other considerations have
had the effect to dreate serious doubts as to the correctness
of the decision made more than fifty years ago,t that a maritime lien does not arise in such a case.
Expressions, however, to the same effect'are found in other
opinions of this court, and inasmuch as the question is not
satisfactorily put in issue in the pleadings in this case, and
does not appear to have been directly presented to the Oircuit Court by either party, the court here is. not inclined to
enter more fully into the consideration of it at the present
time.
None of the interveners" alleged in direct terms that they
had a maritime lien upon the steamer or the proceeds in the
Abbott on Shipping, 148, 149.
t- 5 American Law Review, 612; 7 Ifd-:7he St. Lawrence, I Black, 52D;
The Harrison, 2 Abbott, United States Reports, 78; The Belfast, 7 Wallace,
645, 646.
-- The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 443.

THE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

registry of the court. Many libels of interv'ention were
filed subsequent to the sale of the steamer, and some of
them contain a prayer that the court will decree the payment
of'the claim of the libellant, with privilege on the steamer or
the proceqds, but-in no case does the libellant allege in
terms that the contract set forth in the libel constitutes a
maritime lien upon the steamer or the proceeds in the registry or the court, nor does the libellant pray for process to
enforce any such lien.
Doubtless the maritime lien is, in many cases, well described as a privilege in the thing, but the State law, whichcannot be enforced in the admiralty, also gives material-men
a privilege or lien in such cases, and in view of that fact it
may well be questioned whether the allegation in the libels
is sufficient to apprise the owners of the specific nature of
the interest which the libellants. claim in the proceeds, as
the rule of decision in the Federal courts has been for many
years that a maritime lien does not arise in suLh a case.
Any person having an interest in the proceeds may intervene pro interesse suo, but he ought to allege enough to apprise the owner of the nature of the interest claimed.*
. Most or all of the.claims were referred to a commissioner
t6 report a tableau of distribution, and no exception was
taken to the order of the court appointing the commissioner.
- He decided that none of the claims, except those for' seamen's wages, constituted a maritime lien, and none of the
libellants excepted to the report upon that precise ground.
On the contrary they seem rather to have acquiesced in that
part of the report; and in the view adopted by the district
judge, that it was competent for him to decree that the respective claims should be paid out of the proceeds in the
registry of the court, irrespective of the question whether
the claimants had or had not any maritime lien or other
legal interest in the same. Such must, it would seem,
have been the view of the district judge, as he ultimately
43 Admiralty Rule, Revised Oode of Practice, Art. 3278-4; Revised
Statutes of Louisiana, 604.

Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.

221

Opinion of the court.-

confirmed the report and directed the proceeds to be paid
to two claimants, both of whom were libellants in personam
.and judgmeut creditors of the owners. 'ByWnofirning the
report he decided that none of the. libellants whose claims
were for repairs and supplies had auy maritime lien, but in
the decree ordering the payment of the two claims he departed from ile report of the commissondr, as the latter
decided that, inasmuch as opposition was made by the
owners,, the proceeds could not be distributed among the
interveners who had no maritime liens. Apparently the
district judge musb have been of the opinion that the proceeds were subject to his order of distribution among the
creditors of the owners, or that the twro claimants acquired
some right or interest in the proceeds, either by their judgments against the owners or by virtue of the proceedings
under the garnishee process against the clerk as the registrar
of the District Court.
Beyond doubt maritime liens upon the property sold by
the order of the admiralty court follow the proceeds, but
the proceeds arising from such a sale, if the title of the
owner is unincumbered and not subject to any maritime
lien of any kind, belong to the owner, as the admiralty
courts are not courts of bankruptcy or of insolvency, nor
are they invested with any jurisdiction to distribute 'such
property of the owner, any more than any other property
belonging to him, among his creditors. Such proceeds,,if
unaffected by any lien, when all legal claims upon the fuhd
are discharged, become by operation of law the absolute
property of the*owner.*
Subsequent to the seizure any person may enter an appearance to protect any interest he may have in the property, or he may commence a second or subsequent suit to
enforce any claim he may have against it, or he may take
legal measures to prevent the release of the property under
arrest, or to prevent the payment of the proceeds out of the
Brown v. Lull, 2 Sumner, 443; Sheppard v. Taylor, 5 Peters, 675; The
Europa, Browning & Lushington, 87, 91 ; The Amrelie, 2 Clifford, 448 i Same
Case, 6 Wallace, 30.

THE LOTTAWANNA.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

registry.* Defence may be made to a suit in rem by any
person who has an interest in the thing seized; as for example, a mortgagee may appear and defend a salvage or wages
suit,- or the assigne6 of a bankrupt owner may appear and
contest any. claim against the property of the bankrupt, or
underwriters, if they have accepted the abandonment, may.
also appear and defend against an- claims adverse to their
interest in the property, but a person who has merely a collateral interest in some question involved in the suit and has
no actual concern in the subject-matter of it, cannot be
allowed to intervene in the proceedings.t
Where the property is already under-arrest and a second
or subsequent suit is instituted, it is not necessary to take
out a second warrant of arrest, as a citation in rem is sufficient, instead of a warrant, commanding the marshal to cite
all persons who have, or claim to have, any right, title, or
interest in the property, to enter an appearance in the cause
on or before the day therein named, the service of which is
sufficient to protect the rights of the intervener. Notice to
the owners in some form must be given in such cases, else
the decree will not conclude the owners.1
. Decided cases may be found which afford some support to
the proposition that, the proceeds in the registry of thd court,
if the lien claims are all discharged, may be distributed
.equitably among the intervening creditors of the 'owners,
but the court is of the opinion that the rule that the proceeds in that state of the case belong to the owner is correct
in principle, and that the weight of authority is in its favor,
notwithstanding those cases, of which The John§ is the one
most frequently cited. But in that case there was no opposition by the owners, nor was the question much considered.
Directly opposed to that case is the case of The Maitland,[I in
* 43 Admiralty Rule; Williams & Bruce's Admiralty Jurisdiction, 229.

t Conkling's Practice (6th ed.), 570; Stratton v. Jarvis, 8 Peters, 4; The
Killarney, Lushington, 480; Williams & Bruce's Admiralty Jurisdiction,
199; The Julindur, 1 Spinks, 75; The Louisa, Browning& Lushington, 59;
The Oaledonia, Swabey, 17; The Mary Anne, 1 Ware, 108.
1 Nations v. Johnson et al., 24 Howard, 205; 43 Admiralty Rule.
112 Haggard's Admiralty, 253.
j 3 Robinson, 290.

Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.
Opinion of the court.

which the admiralty court refused to follow it, remarking that
there is no solid distinction between orighal suits and suits
against the proceeds, where there is oppositioif. Mere remnants, if unclaimed by the owner, may stand upon a different
footing, and it is upon that ground that the admiralty cohrts
have sometimes decreed the payment of small unclaimed
sums to a creditor of the owner having fa clear equity, to
prevent the same from being indefinitely impounded in the
registry of .the court. Exactly the same point was decided,
in the same way, iii the case of The .Neptune,* in which all
of the authorities to that time were carefully examined.
Where the ship is sold the proceeds are in the hands of the
court, which holds the fund in trust, and the court in the
following case added that the owner is in some sense entitled
to the same, but finally decided that inasmuch as he cannot
obtain the fund without the order of the court, that it cannot
be attached under the garnishee process.t
Supplemental suits in the nature of a suit in rem may unquestionably be entertained in favor of parties having an
interest in the proceeds, as was held by this court in the case
of Andrews v. Wall,t in which this court said that such suits
may be entertained to ascertain to. whiom the proceeds belong and to deliver the same over to the parties who establish the lawful ownership to the property, as in the case of
the sale of a ship to satisfy claims for seamen's wages, or
for a bottomry bond, or for salvage services, or to discharge
a lien for repairs and supplies, the rule being that after the
original demand is paid if a surplus remains in the registry,
the court may determine to whom the same belongs. Other
lien claims are also mentioned for which the ship may be
sold, but it is unnecessary to recapitulate them, as those
.enumerated are sufficient to explain the principle adopted
by the court..
Differeut views have in some few instances been adopted
* 3 Knapp's Privy Council, 111.

1 3 Howard, 573.
t-The Wild Ranger, Browning & Lushington, 88.
United States v. Casks of Wine, 1 Peters, 547; Schuchardt v. Ship Angelique, 19 Howard, 241.

THE LOTTAWANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by the District Courts, but the right of the court to decree
that third persons who could 'not have proceeded against the
property in rem may recover a proportion of the proceeds to
satisfy their claimsagainst the owner, in a case where the
owner appears and opposes the application, seems to be rep ugnant to every sound principle of judicial proceeding, and
it is certainly opposed to the great weight of authority.*
Reference is sometimes *madeto the case of Place v. Polls,t
as supporting the opposite rule, but the court here is not
able to regard'the case'as having, any such tendency, as the
judgment in that case in the court of original jurisdiction
was founded almost entirely uponthe decision of the admiralty judge in the case of The Dowthorpe,t'which is nothing
but a simple apportionment of the different liens upon the
ship and freight.
Suppose that is so, still it is contended that the appellees,
acquired the right of preference in the fund by virtue of the
proceedings under the garnishee process, as more fully set
forth in the record; but the court is entirely of a different
opinion, for several reasons:
1. Because the fund, froni its very nature, is not subject
,to attachment either by the process of foreign attachment or
of garnishment, as it is held in trust by the court to be delivered to whom it may belong, after hearing and adjudication by the court.§
2. Because the proceeds in such a case are not by law in
the hands of the clerk nor of the judge, nol: is the fund subject to the control of the clerk. Moneys in the registry of
the Federal courts are required by the act of Congress to be
* 2 Parsons on Shipping, 231; The New Eagle, 2 W. Robinson, 441;
Gardner v. Ship New Jersey, 1 Peters's Admiralty, 226; Clement v. Rhodes,
3 Addams, 40.
t 8 Exchequer, 706; Same Case, 10 Id. 370; Same Case, 6 House of Lords
Cases, 383.
: 2 W. Robinson, 90.
The Albert Crosby, 1 Lushington, 101; The Wild Ranger, Browning
& Lushington, 8; 1 Chitty's Archbold's Practice (l1th ed.), 702.

Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.
Opinion of the court.

deposited with the Treasurer of the United States, or afi
assistant treasurer or designated depositary, in the name
or to the credit of such court, and the provision is thit no
money. deposited as aforesaid shall be withdrawn except by
the order of the judge or judges of said courts .respectively,
in term time -or vacation, to be signed by such judge or
judges and to be entered and certified of record by the
clerk.* Regulations substantially to the same effect have
existed in the acts of Congress for more than half a century,
and within that period it is preslimed'thftt no proceeding to
attach such a fund by a creditor of the owner has ever been
sustained.t
3. Judgments were never a lien upon personal property,
unless made so by attachment under mesne process, which
is all that need be said in respect to the propositioni that the
appellees acquired a right of ireference to the proceedd in
the registry of the court by virtue of their judgment against
the owners.
Mention should also be made of another error, which
ought if possible to. be promptly corrected. Where an appqal is taken from the decree of the District Court in a proceeding in rem to the Circuit Court, the property or proceeds
thereof follows the cause into the Circuit Court, where it
remains until the litigatio.q is ended, as it does not follow
the cause into the Supreme Court.t Application was'made
to the District Court to send up the proceeds, and the record
shows that the court overruled the same, which is. a plain
error and one which ought to be promptly corrected, uiless
the proceeds haVe been lpaid over as directed by the court,
and if so, they should be recalled, if practicable, and restored
to the registry,'and then sent up to.,thd Circuit Court, as
the Circuit Court in such cases executes its own decree.
Imperfectly tried, as the ca se has been, the court here is
of' the.opinion and directs that leave be given to both parties
t 3 Id. 395.
"17 Stat. at Large,,1.
: The Collector, 6 Wheaton, 194; The Seneca, Gilpin, 34; The Grotius,
1 Gallison, 503; Montgomery v. Anderson, 21 Howard, 388; Conklin's
Practice (5th ed.), 569.
VOL. XX.

15

226

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

to amend their pleadings, and if need be to take further
proofs. Error was also committed by the Circuit Court in
affirming the decree of the District Court, as it is plain it
should have been reversed. For these reasons the decree
of the Circuit Court is in all thiings REVERSED, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.
1. Under the act of July 2d, 1864, providing that in civil actions in courts
of the United States there shall- be no exclusion of any witness, "1because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried ;" witnesses may,
other things allowing, testify (without any order of court) by deposition. And if not satisfied with a deposition which they have given,
have a right, without order of court, to give a second one.
2. What evidence so far tended to prove, on the part of a person who, during the late rebellion, removed his slaves from loyal parts of the country
to parts in rebellion, a purpose to sell them in these last, and justified
a charge on an assumption of possibility, that the jury might find the
purpose to have existed. This matter passed upon.
3. Whei, under the what is known in Texas as its "1Sequestration Act," a
person has brought suit to recover land, and the marshal, in pursuance
of the writ of sequestration, takes possession of the land, it is in the custody of the law. But when replevied (as the said act allows it to be), it
passes from the possession of the law into the possession of the party replevying.
4. The rule established by this court as to the introduction of secondary
evidence-that it must'be the best which the party has it in his power
to produce-is to be so applied as to promote the ends of justice and
guard against frauds, surprise, and imposition. The courthas not gone
to the length of the English adjudications, that there are no degrees in
second.ary evidence. Hence, where the records of a court were all burnt
'during the rebellion, whatappeared to be a copy of an officially certified
copy was held properly received; the certified copy, if any existed, not
being in the party's custody or plain control, and there being no positive
evidence that it existed, though there was evidence tending to showi that
it did. There is nothing in the act of Congress of M1arch 3d, 1871 (16
Stat. at Large, 474), providing for putting in a permanent form proof
of the contents of judicial records, nor in the statute of .Texas of 11th

