226

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

to amend their pleadings, and if need be to take further
proofs. Error was also committed by the Circuit Court in
affirming the decree of the District Court, as it is plain it
should have been reversed. For these reasons the decree
of the Circuit Court is in all thiings REVERSED, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.
1. Under the act of July 2d, 1864, providing that in civil actions in courts
of the United States there shall- be no exclusion of any witness, "1because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried ;" witnesses may,
other things allowing, testify (without any order of court) by deposition. And if not satisfied with a deposition which they have given,
have a right, without order of court, to give a second one.
2. What evidence so far tended to prove, on the part of a person who, during the late rebellion, removed his slaves from loyal parts of the country
to parts in rebellion, a purpose to sell them in these last, and justified
a charge on an assumption of possibility, that the jury might find the
purpose to have existed. This matter passed upon.
3. Whei, under the what is known in Texas as its "1Sequestration Act," a
person has brought suit to recover land, and the marshal, in pursuance
of the writ of sequestration, takes possession of the land, it is in the custody of the law. But when replevied (as the said act allows it to be), it
passes from the possession of the law into the possession of the party replevying.
4. The rule established by this court as to the introduction of secondary
evidence-that it must'be the best which the party has it in his power
to produce-is to be so applied as to promote the ends of justice and
guard against frauds, surprise, and imposition. The courthas not gone
to the length of the English adjudications, that there are no degrees in
second.ary evidence. Hence, where the records of a court were all burnt
'during the rebellion, whatappeared to be a copy of an officially certified
copy was held properly received; the certified copy, if any existed, not
being in the party's custody or plain control, and there being no positive
evidence that it existed, though there was evidence tending to showi that
it did. There is nothing in the act of Congress of M1arch 3d, 1871 (16
Stat. at Large, 474), providing for putting in a permanent form proof
of the contents of judicial records, nor in the statute of .Texas of 11th

Oct. 1873.]

CORNETT V.

WILLIABIS.

Statement of the case.
February, 1850 (Pasehall's Digest, Article 4969), on the same subject,
which changes this rule.
5. 'Where a county court having jurisdiction to authorize a sale of a decedent's estate for his debts does authorize it, and the sale is made, the
sale must be presumned in this court to have been regularly made. In
the absence of fraud, the question of its propriety is not open to examination otherwise than in an appellate court in a proceeding had directly
for that purpose.
6. Certain instructions quoted further on (infra, pp. 285-238) on the subject
of fraud approved; though the case was declared hardly sufficient to
require them.
ERROR to

the Circuit Court. for the Western District of

Texas, in which court Henry Williams brdught trespass to

try title against one Cornett, to settle the.question of ownership of a certain league of land in Bastrop County, in the
said State, which had formerly belonged to Samuel Williams.* The plaintiff claimed under a sale made by ai administrator of the estate of the said Samuel, throulgh the
proper court, for payment of debt;- the defendant through
deeds from his heirs at law. The more particularcase was
thus:
Samuel Williams, of the said Bastrop County, and engaged in business there, having become indebted to his
brother Henry, resident in Baltimore, Maryland, the said
brother brought suit against him, and on the 20th June,
1850, obtained a judgment against him in the District Court
of the United States in Texas for $26,736; and on the 12th
July, 1858, to keep alive the evidences of the debt, brought
a second suit on this judgment so obtained, and r'ecovered
judgment on it for $43,936. These facts were testified to
by IV. B. Ballitiger, Esq., a member of the bar of Texas of
high standing; his "office registry" being produced as the
evidence of the dates and amounts of the two judgments;
These two brothers were called, in different parts of the record,-the last
Samuel May Williams, S. M..Williams, Samuel 1. Williams, and Samuel
Williams;- the other Henri H. Williams, Henry Williams, and in other
other parties Williams (J. H. and W. H.) in tte
ways. There being vtwo
case, I have spoken in my statement of the case and in the report of the
argument, of the two brothers constantly by their first names only; that is
to say, as Samuel and Henry.

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the judicial' records, as hereafter mentioned, having themselves been destroyed.
Soon after the entry of the second judgment Samuel
Williams died, leaving this league of land, and some other
lands; and not long afterwards-about 'the year 1859ienry being in Texas, applied to Mr. Ballinger for counsel
as to what further steps, if any, he had best follow to secure
his debt against the estate of his brother now lately deceased. Mr. Ballinger told him to get a certified copy of
the judgment, make affidavit to it, and present it to the administrators of the estate of Samuel Williams; and supposed, as hp testified, that he would do this.
This advice of Mr. Ballinger was founded apparently on
what seems to be the law of Texas,* under which any claim
against the estate of a deceased person, in order to be ranked
as a just debt against it, must be duly sworn to and presented to, the administrator for allowance, and to the chief
justice (who is the probate judge) for approval.
It did not appear that Mr.Ballinger ever saw this certified
copy, such as he had directed Henry Williams to get and
present; hut another witness (F. W. Chandler), a member
of the bar, testified that he had had in his possession such a
copy of the judgment; that J. H. Williams (the son of
Henry Williams) had -made several copies of it in his presence; and that the original (that is to say, the copy officially
certified) had been lost in the mail in crossing Cummins's"
Creek. One of the copies thus made was sent to Mr. Ballinger; but Mr. Ballinger could not say that the copy was
accurate, and noted that the amount found due by the clerk
and that for "which the judgment was given varied; Ir.
Ballinger's own memorandum, as found in his office register, agreeing in amount and date with the latter. The"copy
thus sent to Mr. Ballinger, and which was received in evidence under objection, set forth that the clerk of the court
in which the judgment was had, had assessed the damnges
at $43,966.34; and that it wa, therefore, considered by the
court that the plaintiff recover of the defendant $43,936.34.
*

Act of March 20th, 1848, Paschal's Digest, Article 1311.

Oct. 1873.3

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.

229 ,

StAtement of the case.

In 1861 the civil war broke out, lasting till the spring of
1865. In 1862 all the original records of the Federal courts
in Texas were burned.
Early in the war, J. H. Williams, a son -of Henry, already
mentioned as of Baltimore, went to. Texas, and with his
cousin H. H. Williams, a son of Samuel, bought out the
right of the other heirs of Samuel to this league of land, and
went on it to live. Having done this the two cousins formed
partnership, built a cloth factory, and iade a contract with a
the Confederate government to supply to it military cloth
for the Obufederate troops. J. H. Wilfiamin stated in testimony that he was at the time aware of the incumbrance of
his father's judgment on the land, but conisidlered the estate
of his uncle so wealthy ".that any idea of the land being
needed to pay a debt of the estate never occurred to .him
but as a poss bibility too remote to'be worth consideration."
While -the cousins, J. H. and W. H. Williams, were engaged in manufacturing military cloths for the Confederate
troops, under their contract, already mentioned, with the
Confederate'government, a certain .Cornett appeared, in October, 1868, in Texas, with a large number of slaves, some
mules, and. a wagon. Cornett had been a resident and a
slaveholder in .Missouri, disaffected to the Federal government; and the testimony tended to show that in the autumn
of 1861,'that State being in a very disturbed condition,
owing to the war, and the government troops gradually
driving out those of the Confederate States, a son of Cornett
said to his father that theFederal army was approaching;
that -if they did not remove their slaves soon they would
lose them all; that thereupon Cornett got his slaves togelther, and handcuffing or tying with strings sonic who hid
themselves and did not want to-go, set off for the South,
and after about five weeks of forced journeyings, follbwing
the Confederate troops night Mid day, arrived in Texas;
that he hired so.me of his slaves out for short times, sold
certain ones, and in the autumn of 1863 sold all the rest
(the bulk of them), and the mules and Wagon, to the cousins
Williams, they having made the purchase, as one of them tes-

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tified, "for the purpose of enabling us to comply with our
contract with the Confederate government;" " a thing," continued the witness, " which the said Cornett knew at the
time of our purchase and must have known before, it having
been matter of common notoriety; and he having further
known it from 'our own statements made to him at the
time."
By way of payment for the negroes, mules and wagon,
the cousins Williams executed, in February, 1864 (though
the sale was in the autumn of 1863), their note to Cornett
for $9600 (the $9000 having beefi the price of the negroes
and the $600 the price of the mules and wagon), and to secure the payment of the note conveyed the league of land
that they had bought from the heirs of Samuel Williams to
one Wildbahn, in trust to secure their note to Cornett, and
with power in the trustee to sell if the note was not paid.
In the spring of 1865 the supremacy of the Federal arms
became complete; slavery was abolished, and the slaves
bought by the cousins Williams of no more value to them.
Henry Willianms, the fiather of J. HI. Williams, who was
still alive and had been during the war at the North, constituted, in 1865, his son, J. I. Williams, yet in Texas, his
general agent there; and peace being now restored and intercourse between all parts of the country, the son (who, as
already mentioned, had with his cousin mortgaged the leitgue to
Cornett, to secure the purchase-money of the slaves), acting as his
father's agent, at the January Term, 1866, applied through
counsel, Mr. Mott, to the Coun'ty Court of Galveston, for an
order that the administrator of Samuel Williams be cited to
appear and show cause why "he should not make application to the court for an order to sell enough of the property
of said estate to pay a judgment obtained by the said Henry
Williams against the said.Samuel, to the amount of $40,000;
whidh said judgment was allowed and approred as. a valid claim
against said estate, in October, 1859, with eight per cent. interest per annum," &C.
The application thus made to the court was under and in
pursuance with the 1315th article of Paschal's Digest, 'which

Oct. 1873*.]

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

Statement of the case.

declares that when an administrator shall neglect to apply
for an order to sell sufficient property to pay the claims
against the estate that have been allowed and approved, or
established by suit, such executor shall b6 required by the
chief justice, on the application of any creditor whose claim
has been allowed and apprb'ed, or established .by suit, to present a statement, &c.; and on proof that a necessity exists
for a sale to pay debts, &c., it shall be the du.ty of the chief
justice to order such sale to be made, having j urisdiction-of
the case by application made.
The administrator appeared at the samo term, and, answering, admitted it to be true that the said Henry, on the
28th of June, 1850, did recover a judgnient in the United
States District Court at Galveston, against the. decedent, for
$26,736; that it was not paid at the death of.the decedent;
that it was presented for allowance against the estate with
the usual affidavit and allQwed; that he could not say whether
it was approved by the chief justice of Galveston County; that it
had never been pdid, and that the 'reason he had taken no
measures to pay it was that the plaintiff had told him that,
being against his brother, he did not intend to enforce it.
The court thereupon, at the same term, made an order as
follows:
"On this day came on to be heard -in this cause the motion
of Henry Williams,'by his agent, J.H. Williams, asking that
the administrator be required to sell sufficient property of the
estate to pay a certain judgment obtained by the said Henry in
the United States District Court, on the 28th day of June, A.D.
1850, for the sum of $26,736,. with- interest from date of rendi.
tion; and it appearing to the court 'that this claim has been dull
allowed, and that the administrator'has no funds in hand whatever to ppy the same, it is ordered that he make sale of sufficient
property in pursuance of'he prayer of the motion. And the
administrator having designated the following piece of prdperty,
it is ordered that he shall make public sale of one league of land,
situated," &c.
The premises in controversy (being the same that the son had
with his cozusin conveyed to Cornett) were then described, the

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup.' Ct.

Statement of the case.

mode and time of advertising, and the place and terms of
the sale were prescribed, and the administrator was directed
"to make due report of his action in the -premises to the
court." On the 15th of March, 1866, the administrator reported that, pursuant to the order of the court, after due
n6tice according to law, he had offered the premises for sale
at public auction, at the time and place required byolaw, and
that they were struck off and sold to Henry Williams, for
the sum of $60,000, on a credit of twelve months, secured
-by a vendor's lien; that 'Williams was the highest and est
bidder, and that the price was a reasonable one.
At the March Term the court confirmed the report and
ordered the administrator to make a deed to the purchaser
upon his complying with the terms of the sale. On the 15th
of April, 1866, the adfininistrator gave a receipt to the purchaser for $60,600, being the amount of the purchase-money
with ten per cent. interest, and by the same instrument released his vendor's lien. On the same day he executed a
deed of conveyance to the said Henry. It recited all the
proceedings touching the sale upon which it was founded.
On the 2d of January, 1868, the administrator executed
to the said Iten!'y another deed for the same premises. It
recited more fully the proceedings relative to the sale, and
set out that there were certain clerical errors of dates in the
former deed, and that the second deed was made to correct
them.
The counsel (one Mott), who, as counsel, attended to get.ting this order of sale, and was examined as a witness for
the plaintiff, was asked whether in getting the order he had
before him "the claim" of Henry Williams, on which the
order was based. He replied.:
"I have not before me the claim alluded to. I presume it is
among the papers in the matter of the administration of
Samuel Williams, deceased, on file in the county clerk's office,
in Galveston County."
He testified further, in reply to other interrogatories:
"The administrator contested my application for order of

Oct. 1873.]

OORNETT V. WILLIAMS.
Statement of the case.

sale, and the matter was referred to the court upon the pr'oof.
The matter was one of minor importance, as far as I was concerned, and my recollection of the facts is notclear. My im.pression is that the proof wAs mostly oral. I proved by one or two
witnesses that judgment had been obtained in the United States
District Court by Henry Williams acainst Samuel Williams,
and also proved the destruction of the United Sta'tcs court records by fire. And upon the proof, the chief justice adjudicated
the matter and gave me the order of sale."
J. H. Williarns-the son of Henry, and who had acted as
his agent in procuring through Mr'. Mott this sale-was-also
examined, and was asked on a cross-interrogatory:
"How did it happen that, as agent fbr your father, you managed to have your own homestead sold by order of the Probate
Court of Galveston County? Explain particularly why you permitted its sale, when you had warranted the title of it to Cornett, and knew that the sale would injure him ?"
He answered:
"9My father, for thefirst time, in 1865, constituted me an agent
for the management of his affairs in Texas. I had the interests
of my mother and brother to consider as well as my own. I
was an enthusiastic believer ia the Confederacy, and never expected to see its fall, and I entered into the transaction with
Cornett in good faith at the time. The fall of the Confederacy
came, however, and with it the destruction of the value of the
property I was to have held from Cornett, and a totally new*
set of laws,'of which I had to take the evil, and'felt it nothing
more than right to extract from them, in return, whatever of
good I could. I did not regard the trade as legally binding
upon me. My uncle's estate was nearly bankrupted by the results of the war, and this league'of land was the only.piece of
property belonging't- tfie'estate. The. administrator seemed
glad to avail himself of my offer and thus get rid of a large
claini, the settlement of which in any stricter way would have
ruined all the parties concerned-in the estate, and have seriously
embarrassed the payment of other debts due by it. I knew that
in any event, myinterest in the land wais gone. My sympathies
were of course with the rights of my father, mother, anx-my

OORNETT V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

brother. I knew the judgment through which, or to satisfy
which, my father's title to the league of land in question was
obtained was a judgment for a just and bond fide debt, while I
did not feel that Cornett was morally entitled to anything more
than a fair rate of hire for his negroes for the time we held them,
which was offered him and refused."
In this state of things-that is to say, the trustee Wildbaln having sold the land, and the title derived from the
heirs of Samuel Williams having become vested in Cornett,
-Cornett, on the 7th of December, 1867, brought a suit
(trespass to try title) against the cousins J. H. and IV. H.
Williams,: still in possession; and a writ known in Texas as
a writ of sequestration-by which the marshal takes possession of the land and holds it in his official capacity until one
party or the other give a bond and replevy it-was issued,
under which the marshal took possession of the league of
land. To this suit Henry Williams did not interplead as a
defendant.
The statute of Texas on the subject of a landlord's interpleading is:
"When a tenant is sued for lands of which he is in possession,
the real owner or his agent MAY.e.ntcr himself on the proceedings as the defendant in the suit, and SHALL be entitled to make
such defence as if he had been the original defendant in the
action."

On the 19th of February, 1868, Cornett replevied the
land.
On the 19th of February, 1868, Henry Williams brought
the present suit against Cornett, alleging in his declaration
"that he was, on the 1st day of January, 1868, and a long
time before that date and still is owner," &c., and that the
defendant, "on the 1st day of January,1868, with force and
arms entered," &e.

On the 19th of June, that is to say, after the present suit
was brought by Henry Williams against Cornett, Cornett
recovered judgment against the cousins W. H. and J. H.
Williams, on his suit against them.

Oct. 1873.]

CORNETT V. WLLIAMS.
Statement of the case.

In the present case two depositions of Henry Williams, the
plaintiff in the case, were read under objection; one had
been taken In June, 1868, the other in January, 1869. Both
were taken, as respected general formalities, under the
thirtieth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, prescribing
the mode of taking depositions generally in the Federal
courts; and, though the depositions of the plaintiff himself,
were considered by the plaintiff's counsel as coming within
the provision of the act of July 2d, 1864, authorizing parties
to a case to testify ;* an act in these words:
"SE T1io 3. The sum of $100,000 is'hereby appropriated . . .
for the purpose of. *.. bringing to 'trial and punishment persons engaged in counterfeiting treasury notes, bonds, or other
securities of the United States. Provided, That in the courts of
the United States there shall be no exclusion of any witness on
account of color, nor in civil actions because he is a party to or
interested in the issue tried."
One provision of the thirtieth section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, under which the depositions were taken, after
prescribing the mode in which the magistrate, taking them,
is to take them, says:
"And the depositions so taken shall be retainedbysuch magistrate until he deliver the same, with his own hand, into court;
or shall be . . . by him wthe said magistrate, sealed up and directed to such co.urt, ana remain under his seal until opened in
court."
The substance of the testimony of Henry Williams was
that the deed of trust made by his son and nephew of the
lands to Wildbahn for the security of Cornett, had beeh'
made wholly without his knowledge or authority, and that
he had never in any way ratified what they had done.
The court charged inter alia thus:
"1. With regard to the trust-deed, Iinstruct you, that if you
believe that Cornett brought the slaves from Missouii in August
or September, 1861, during the war, for the purpose of disposing
18 Stat. at Large, 851.

CORNETT V.

WILLMAMS.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement ofthe case.

of the same, being a citizen of Missouri, that it was an unlawful
act on his part, contrary to his duty as a citizen of the United
States and of Missouri, and that his sale of the slaves here was
a transaction void in law, and cannot be enforced in the courts;
and if the consideration of the trust-deed was illegal and void,
the deed itself was void, and no title can be derived under it by
Cornett.
"2. It is argued by th6 detbndants that the plaintiff, Henry
Williams, is concluded by the sequestration suit, because the
defendants were tenants under him, and one of them was his
general agent in Texas. But I instruct you that he is not concluded. Hewas no party to the suit, and did not undertake
the defence of it. A landlord may, if he chooses, come in and
defend an, action brought ngainst'his tenant for the land, but
he is not bound to do it. The tenant may be under such complications that the landlord's defence would be prejudiced thereby.
The landlord, it' ho prefer; may await th 9 event of.the action,
and if his tenant is ousted may then bring his own action, as
has been done here, and try his title on its own merits, unembarrassed by the peculiar complications in which his tenant
may have been involved.
"3. To the title of the plaintiff,'it is objected by the defendant, that the judgment-debt of Henry Williams was not duly
presented, allowed, and approved, und that the order of sale
was, therefore, void, and that the deed executed by the admini~strator was also void.
"But the validity of the order of sale cannot be questioned
in this collateral way. This is not a revisory proceeding for
examining the regularity or legality of that order. This court
cannot set it-aside nor inquire into any errors committed by the
Probate Court in making it, if there were any. All it can do is
to ascertain whether the Probate Court had 'jurisdiction of the
matter. Of this I have no doubt. It is conceded that the
court had jurisdiction of the succession of Samuel Williams, of
which matter this order of sale was a part. But if that was
not sufficient to support the order, we have the fact proved that
there was a subsisting judgment; that it was duly presented to
the administrator for allowance, and sworn to, and admitted,
and registered by him; that the plaintiff applied to the court
for an order calling upon the administrator to show cause why
he should not apply to have the land sold to pay the judgment,

Oct. 1873.]

OORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

Statement of the case.
alleging that it hgd been duly presented, allowed, and approved;
that the administrator appeared and answered.the application,
and that a hearing was had thereupon, and the order made for
a sale of the land; that the sale was made, reported; and confirmed, and a deed ordered to be given, which was given accordingly ....
Having jurisdiction of the case by the application
made, it was the duty of the Probate Court'to ascertain whether
the exigency existed which justified or required an order of sale
to be made. It will be presumed, wl~en brought up collaterally,
that. the court did its duty, and its judgment will be accepted
and received without further question.
"4. T therefore instruct the Jury that the administrator's deed
was good and valid to convey, and did convey, to the plaintiff
the title which Samuel Williams bad in the land, unless it was
rendered void by fraud on the part of the plaintiff in obtaining it.
"If the plaintiff obtained the deed for the purpose of defraiding the creditors of W. H. and.J. H. Williams, and especially
Cornett, then the plaintiff cannot recover. This is the principal question for you to decide, viz., whether the order of sale
made by the Probate Court- was procured by the plaintiff, in
combination with W. H. and J. H. Williams,, for the purpose of
defrauding Cornctt out of his debt. In deciding this. question,
you will assume that the judgment of the plaintiff against his
brother, Samuel Williams, was a good'and valid one. If they
agreed to it, none but the creditors of Samuel Williams can
question its validity. It cannot be assailed in this suit.
"You are also to assume that the judgment was duly presented to the administratorg of Samuel Williams, and allowed
by them, and approved by the proper judge of the Probate
Court. These points must have been decided, and'are concluded
by the action of the Probate Court on the application for an
order of sale.
"You are also to remember that the plaintiff, having a valid
and legal claim against the estate of Samuel Williams, had a
right to have any portion of the latter's estate applied to the
payment of it, and whoever purchased any part thereof purchased subject tb that right.
"You are also to remember the rule of law that fraud must
be proved, and cannot be presumed. I, however, it be proved
to your satisfaction that either the plaintif or"h 'lant.(for,
be
is bound by the acts of his agent), in coltlsion and 'ddh-rynatibn

-28

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the sale.

with W. H. and J. H. Williams, or with the administrator, procured the order of sale to be made in order to defraud Cornett,
you will find for the defendant. If it be not so proved, you will
find for the plaintiff."
Verdict 'and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the
defendapt brought the case here, assigning for error:
1. The admission of the two depositions of Henry Williams.
'2. The construction given (in the.first item above quoted
of the charge) to the deed of trust under which the sale of
the land was m'ade to Cornett, the defendant.
3. The ,etect given (in the second item above quoted of
the charge) to the proceedings aiid judgment in the sequestration suit of Cornell v. J. .f.

and W. ff. Williams, and not

in treating it as a former recovery for the land now in controversy.
4. The permission to introduce such evidence as was introduced, to show the existenc6, destruction, and contents
of the two judgments alleged to have been given in- favor
,of Henry Williams against his brother Samuel.
5. In the view which the court took (in the third item
above quoted of its charge) of thejlprisdiction of the Probate
Court, to order and confirm the sale to Henry Williams, the
plaintiff, of the land in suit.
6. In thlat part of its charge (the fourth item of it above
quoted) on the issue of fraud.
.M-.. . S. West (a brief of Messrs. G. F. Moore and John
JUaneotlc being filed), for tTe , jlaintiff in. error:
1' The coz'rt erred in permitting the two depositions of Hlenry
Williams Q be read to the jug.
The act of July 2d, 1864, removed the disability of a
party to a suit to give evidence in it, and he can now testify
orally, as any other witness could at common law; but lie
cannot testify by deposition, because that mode of taking
evidence is in derogation of the common law. The power
of examining any witness by deposition is purely statutory;

Oct. 1873.]

OORNETT V. WILLIAMS.
Argument against the sale.

and no statute has yet been made for taking the depositions
of parties to suits in their own behalf.
The thirtieth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, nuthoiizing the taking of depositions de bene esse, evidently
intended, by its tems, that after the taking of the deposition, it should be 'eturned into court, and cemain sealed
until published in open court. After that was done,.and the
deposition opened in the manner required by law, no other
deposition of the same witness could be taken unless for
good cause shown to the court, and on its order made. The
practice adopted in the case at bar enables a party, after he
has had time to weigh the effects of his evidence, to ameiid
and supply what it yet needs to carry the case. Such a practice leads to peijury, and is not conducive to the ends of
justice. The statute of 1789, authorizing evidence to be
taken ei parte, has alwaS's been rigidly construed.*
2. The court erred in its charge .as to the cbnsiruction of the
deed executed by the trustee to Cornett, for the land claimed.
There was no evidence whatever "that Cornett brought
the slaves from Missouri in August or September, 1861,
during the war,.for the purpose of disposing of them." The
evidence showed that Cornett's sympathies were with the
Confederates, and that when their forces abandoned one
portion of Missouri, and his immediate home became the
theatre of active war, he moved South along witlf the retreating Confederate forces, and came with his property to
Texas, not to sell it or "dispose of it," but to keep and pre:
serve it, and that he. did keep possession of it for several
years. So far as it showed, the idea of selling the slaves to
Williams did not occur to him until the contract of sale was
made in September, 1863. The court, therefore, charged
upon a state of facts on which there was no evidence. This
is error.t
8. The court erred in the effect which it gave in its charge to the
Walsh v. Rogers, 1 Howard, 286; Garner v. Cutler, 28 Texas, 182.
f Michigan Bank v. Eldred, 9 Wallace, 544; Ward v. United States, 14
Id. 28."

240,

2ORNVTT V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument against the sale.

proceedings and judgment, in the sequestrationsuit of Qornett v.
J. f. and W. H. Williams.
Tbh proceedings in the sequestration suit were introduced
in evidence for two purposes: one, to show a former recovery that was so binding and conclusive on the plaintiff,
Henry Williams, as to prevent his obtaining a judgment in
his avor in the present action. The other,.to show that at
the time this suit was brought the land in controversy was
in the dustody of the law, and that no action of trespass or
for its.recovery could be brought until it ceased to be so.
When the suit was brought, W. H. Williams was the
tenant bf hery Williams, and J. H. Williams was not only
his.tenantbut was his son and general'agent in Texas, and
was, as such-agent, in possessioli of thle land in suit, in conjunction-with W. H. Williams, who was hi brother-in-law
and first-cqusin.
4. The eourt erred in permitting the existence, destruction, and
contenits of the two judgmen"/s alleged to have been rendered in
favor of .Henry lVillianms against Samuel Williams, the one on
the 28th of June,. 1850, for $26,736, and the other on the 12th
'of July; .1858,for $43,936.34, to be established by the parol testimony, of..Messrs, Ballinqer, Mott, and Chandler.
The evidence of Mr. Ballinger, disclosing that he was
consulted as to procuring a certified copy of the judgment,
in 1859, to be"sworn to, and presented as a claim against the
estit&, and the evidence of Mr. Mott, which shows that it
was on that claim that Henry Williams asserted a right to
be ranked as a creditor, make it apparent that if it ever
was approved and ranked as a debt, there was a certified
copy of the judgment unaccounted.for. Mr. Mott testified
that he supposed that "the claim" (by which he meant the
certified copy that on the advice of Mr. Ballinger, Henry
Williams was said to have obtaihed and filed) was among
the papers of Samuel Williams's estate. Doubtless, if obtained and filed, it was so.
I The statute of the United States of the 3d of March, 1871,*
* 16 Stat. at Large, 474.

Oct. 18M.]

C6RNRTT V. WILLIAMS2,

241"

Argument against the sale

being an act telatin'g to .Jost "records, in its first section
authorizes the'loss, "when proved, to be supplie-d by-a dulycertified copy, when the same can- hie obtained.
The act.of the State *ofTekas.Qf the 11th February, 1850,*
which provides for the mode and niainer.of-proving lost.
records, is almost ideiitical iii its requiremenfs with. the aqct
of Congress above cited, and provides that when "records'
are lost or destroyed the same may be supplied by copies
duty ceitfied.'
As to the alleged copy of a -certain certified copy of the
judgnient supposed to'have been lost in Cum'mins's Creek.
Even' conceding that the copy shown to Mr. Ballinger and
received under exception. ivas a correct copy of the cettified.
copy, which the witness, Chandler, had had, and ivhich he
says was lost in Cummins's Creek (a great. con cessio.n for us
to make), still nothing. is -proved.. The. alIeged- certified
copy; had it been produced, coiitradicts itself and on its fice
shows its inaccuracy and tin trustworthy.character. It asserts
in one part that .the jnddgment was for $43,966', and asserts in another that it was for $48,D36 31; a diffi'eent sum.
If the plaintiff had shownothat the ceitified'copy of the
judgment which Mr. Chandler had, and which was lost, was
the same'one that Mi'. Balliiijer in .1859 had'advised .him to
procure (and which, from Mott's .evidence, was ranked as a
claim, and in satisfactio.n "ofwhich the. land in suit was sold),
and had also accounted for, its being in his possession, instead of being' on the files of the Probate Court of Galvestoi
County, with the other vouchers of SarnuelWilliams's estate;
it might then have been proper, to allow the evidence'to be
used, loose and hnsatisfactory as it was. But, under the
circurmstances, the objection taken below should have. been
sustained.
"5. The court eried in permitting the administratoi-s deeds of
the 15th of April, 1866, .and of the. 2d of, January, 186.8, to
Henry Williams, to be redd in.evidence; and in the charges given
concerning the legal effect of -those deeds.
Paschal's Digest; i ticle 4969.
VOL. XX.

16

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the sale.

Numerous reasons might be assigned in support of this
view. It is enough to say that the formalities and acts required by law togive the Probate Court jurisdiction and
power to order the sale were not shown; because,
1.. The~e does not appear to have been made to the court,
or brought before it, a statement or exhibit of the condition
of the estate before the order was made, as required by
law in cases where the administrator declines to sell, and
a sale is sought to be had, on the motion or application of a
creditor.
2. It affirrhatively appears on the face of the record that
the alleged debt of Ienry Williams, if any existed, was not
established in the mode required by law; the record not disclosing that such a debt was duly sworn to, allowed by the
adrnimstrator,and approved by the cidefjustice, the order of sale
reciting the sale to have been made "on a claim allowed," and
not on a claim allowed by the administratorandapproved by the
chief justice.
3. Th;e judgment debt for which the court ordered the
land to be sold,.was one for $26,736, with interest from the
28th of June, 1850, to date, and is a different debt from the
judgment debt of $40,000, set up by the plaintiff in his application for a sale.
As to the administrator's second deed (that of the 2d of
January, 1868), iii addition to all the foregoing objections, it
may be furthier urged that the same was void, and incompetent to establish aiy right; because,
1. No order of court was produced showing any authority
in theadministrator to execute such an instrument.
2. Because, having already executed a deed (that of April
15th, 1866), he was, as to this maiter,funclus officio,'and had
no power, without an order of court, to execute another deed
for the same property.
6. The court erred in its charge to the jury on the issue of fiaud
in obtaining the order of sale in the Probate Court Of Galveston
County.
There is no special objection. to the legal propositions laid
.down in general terms in this portion of the. charge. 'The

Oct. 1873.]

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the court.

vice in it is, that it restricted the range of inquiry of the
jury to so narrow a space as to leave practically nothing to
investigate.
The' fraud alleged to have been attempted was a sale of
the land in suit, to defeat the previously acquired rights of
Cornett, under the order of the Probate Court, obtaiued' by
fraud, on aii old, obsolete debt, which, after sleep'ing peacefully for sixteen years without so much as an execution having issued, without being approved and ranked as a debt, by,
collusion between the defendant in error, actin' through his
son aud agent, and the administrator, was revived and made
the means of defrauding Cornett of his property.
In'such an attitude of the case, for the court to inform th6
jury that neither the validity nor character of the original
debt, nor the question as to whether it was a subsisti. g and
approved claim against the estate, had anything to do with
the question of fraud, was practically equivalent to forbidding
inquiry at all, or at least restricting it in such-a narrow compass as to defeat the object of such inquiry.
"In The Duchess of Kingston's Case,* Chief Justice De Grey
held, that extrinsic evidence could be used to show fraud,
remarking"In civil suits all strangers riay fals.ify for covin, either fines,
or real, or feigned recoveries, and this, whether the covin is apparenton the record or eXtriniic."
In Butler v. Watkins,f it is said, "that in matters of fraud,
large lhititude is to be given to the admission of evidence."
Messrs. A. J. Banilton and 5..A. Buchanan (a brieApof Mr.
Jackson being filed), contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
There was no error in admitting ini evidence the two depositions of H. H. Williams. The objections that h .was a
party to the record, and interested'in the event of theosuit
* 2 Smith's Leading

t-'18 Wallace, 457.'

Cases,

7th American edition, 658:

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

were obviated by the third section of the act of July 2d,
1864.* He was thus placed upon a footing of equality with
all other witnesses, and it was competent for him to testify
in the case orally or by deposition. The depositions were
taken and certified in conformity to-the thirtieth section of
the act of'1789.t If the deponent was not satisfied with his
first deposition, he had the right to give a second one. No
order of the court was necessary in either case. The only
objections irisisted upon are that the statute does not authorize a party to testify by deposition if Ve can orally, and
that if he can by deposition, the right was exhausted by the
first one, and that the second one was taken without authority of -aw. Both objections are without foundation. The
statute is remedial and to be construed liberally. We are
aware of no case in which it has been held that where a
witness has given one deposition in an action at law, he cannot for that reason give another without the sanction of the
court. Such a proposition has the support of neither principle nor authority.
The instruction given to the jury touching the trust deeds
executed by W. H. and J. I. Williams to* Wildbahn. the
notes they were given to sectire, and the sale by Cornett of
the slaves, which was in part the consideration of the notes,
was well warranted by the state of the evidence and was'
correct. It was objected to only up-on the ground that the
evidence did not tend to prove that the slaves were removed
from Missouri to Texas for the purpose of selling them in
the latter State, and that hence the instruction-, even if correct as matter of law, was, with reference to the case, an
abstraction, and must necessarily have had 'the effect of confusing and misleading the minds of the jury. Aln examination of the record has satisfied us that the evidence was
abundantly sufficient to raise the question of intent in the
refnoval of the slaves, and to make it the duty of the court
to say to the jury what was said upon the subject. It is not
objected that the rule of law was not correctly stated.
4 13 Stat. at Large, 351.

t" 1 Id. 89.

Oct. 1873.]

OORNETT V. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the court.

What was done in the suit between Cornett and J. H. and
W. H. Williams in no wise aifhcted the rights of H. H.
Williams in this action., The marshal seized the premises',
and Cornett gave a replevin bond pursuant to the statute of
Texas.. While thd property was in the hands- 'f the marshal it was in the custody of the law. When Cornett gaV'
the b6nd the premises passed from the custody of the la~w
into his possession, and they were in his possession when
this suit was instituted. The bond was: given to enable him
to effect that result, and it was accomplished. The bond
took the place of the property and represented it. The
premises were as much in his possession as if no litigation
was. pending and he had acquired possession in some Ptheir
way. The defendant in error, having declined fo become'a
party to that suit, everything done in:it was, so far as he was
concerned, res inter alios ata.
The secondary probf of the judgment in favor if H. H.Wil:
liams, against Samuel M. Williams, was properly admitted.
The original iecord was destroyed by fire in the year 1862.
The proof in question consisted of a copy of a copy of- the
judgment, the latter duly certified by the clerk of the court
by whom the judgment was rendered. It N~as proved-that
the certified copy hid been destroyed. The judgment in.
question was recovered upon a prior judgment iii favor of
the same plaintiff against the same defendant. Ther was
evidence tending to show that a certified copy, of the latter
existed, but it was not positi've. There was no proof of theexistence of such a copy of the judgment sought to be
proved. There was a discrepancy as to a single word in the
copy offered in evidence. It set forth that the clei'k had
assessed the damages at "forty-three thousand nine hundred
and sixty-six dollars and thirty-four cents, and that it was,
therefore, considered by the court that the plaintiff recover
of the defendant the sum of forty-three thousand nine hundred and thirty-six dollars and thirty-four cents," &c. It was
satisfactorily proved aliunde that thirty, instead of sixty, was
correct, the latter being a mistake of the copyist.

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

The principle established by this court as to secondary
evidence in cases like this is, that it must be the best the
party has it in 'his power to produce. The rule is to be so
applied as to promote the ends of justice and guard against
fraud, surprise, and imposition.* The copy here in question
was properly admitted.t This court has not yet gone the
length ot the English adjudications, which hold, withou-t
qualification, that there are no degrees in secondary evidence.1
The act of Congress of March 3d, 1871,ยง provides for putting in a permanent form proof of the contents of judicial
records lost or destroyqd, such proof to take the place of the
original records for all purposes. The statute of Texas upon
the subject of proof in 'cases of lost records,I has also been
referred to in this connection. There is nothing in either
the act.of Congress or the statute in conflict with the action
of the court w-e have been considering.
The most important question in the case relates to the
proceedings of the County Court of Galveston County,
touching the sale and conveyance of the premises in controVersy by the administrator of Samuel M.Williams to H. H.
Williams. The plaintiffs in error insist that those proceedings were coram non judice and void. The defendant in error
maintains that they were regular and valid, and that if there
be any error or defect, the court having had jurisdiction, its
proceedings could not be collaterally assailed upon the trial
of this cause in the court below. This renders it necessary
to examine the case in this aspect. The record shows the
following facts: On the 28th of June, 1850, H. H. Williams
recovered "in the District Coui't of the United States held at
Galveston, against Samuel M. Williams, then living, a judgment for $26,736. And on the 12th of July, 1858, another
Renner v. The Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheaton, 697; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 84 and note.
t Winn v. Patterson, 9 Peters, 676.
Doe d. Gilbert v. Ross, 7 Meeson & Welsby, 106.
16 Stat. at Large, 474, ch. cxi.
11Paschal's Digest, Article 4969.

Oct. 1873.]

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

Opinion of the court.

judgment for the sum of $43,936.84. The second judgment
was founded upon the first one, and was for the principal
and interest due upon the latter. At the January Term,
1866, of the Galveston County Court, H. H. Williams, by
hi's counsel, applied for an order that the administrator of
Samuel M.Williams be cited to appear and show cause why
"he should not make application to the court for an order
to sell enough of the property of said estate to pay a judg-,
ment obtained by the said Henry Williams against the said
Samuel M. Williams, to the amount of '40,000; which said
judgment was allowed and approved as a valid claim against
said estate, in October, 1859, with eight per cent. interest
per annum," &c.
The administrator appeared at the same term, and answered that the plaintiff recovered the judgment first hereinbefore mentioned; that it was presented for allowance
against the estate with the usual, affidavit and allowed; that
he could not say whether it was approved by the chief justice of Galveston County; that it had never beei paid, and
that the reason" he had taken no measures to pay it was that
the plaintiff had told him that, being against his brother, he
did not intend to enforce it. The court thereupon, at the
same term, made an order as follows:
"On this day came on to be heard in this cause the motion of Henry Williams, by his agent, 5. H. Williams, asking that the administrator be required to sell sufficient property of the estate to pay a certain judgment obtained by the
said Henry in the United Statep District Court, on the 28th
day of June, A.D. 1850; for the sum of twenty-six thousand
seven hundred and thirty-six dollars, with interest from date
of rendition; and it appearing to the court that this claim has.
been duly allowed, .and that the administrator has no funds in
hand whatever to pay the same, it is ordered that he make
sale of Sufcient property in pursuance of the prayer of the
motion. And the administrator having designated the following piece of property, it is ordered that he shall make
pijblie sale of one league of land, situated," &e..
The premises in controversy were then described, the

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Gt.:

Opinion of the court.

mode and time of advertising,, and the place and terms of
the sale were.prescribed, and the administrator was directed
"to make due report of his action in the premises to the
court." On the 15th of March, 1866, the administrator reported that, pursuant to the order- of the court, after due
notice according-to law, he had offered the premises for sale
at public duction, at the time and place required by law, and
that they were struck off and sold to Henry 11. Williams, for
the sum of $60,000, on a credit of twelve months, secured
by a vendor's lien; that'Williams was the highest and best
bidder, and that the price was a reasonable one.
At the March Term the court confirmed the report and
ordered the administrator to make a deed to the purchaser,
upon his complying with the terms of the sale. On the 15th
of April, 1866, the administrator gave a receipt to the purchaser for $60,600, being the amount of the purchase-money
with ten per cent. interest, and by the same instrument released his vendor's lien. On the same day the administrator
executed a deed of conveyance to the said H. H. Williams.
It recites all the proceedings touching the sale upon which
it was founded.
On the 2d of January, 1868, the administrator executed
to Henry Williams another deed for the same premises. It
recites more fully the proceedings relative to the sale, and
sets out that there were certain clerical errors of dates in
the former deed, and that this deed was made to correct
them.
The titles adverse to the plaintiff; developed upon the
trial in'the court below, were all derived from heirs-at-law
of Samuel Williams. The premises were liable under a
paramount lien for the debts of the ancestor.* Tie plaintiff's claim was of that character. Hence, if the sale and
conveyance to him by'the administrator were valid, they
were conclusive in his favor. He could fecover, however,
only upon the strength of his own title. The weaknegs of
the title of his adversaries could not avail him.
-

* Paschal's Digest, Article 1378.

Oct. 1873.]

CORNETT V.

WILLIAMS.

Opinion of the court.

Most of the objections to the sale by the administrator
taken in the brief of the plaintiffs in error, -vere not insisted
upon in the argument at the bar, and are of such a character
as to require no observations from the court. One :was
pressed upon our attention with earnestness and ability, and
to that one our remarks will be confined.
A statute of Texas requires all claims.,against the'estate
of a decedent to le presented to his legal representative and
to be allowed by such representative, and to be approved by
the probate judge. ' Until so allowed and approved they have
no legal validity and cannot be recognized as debts against
-the estate. If disallowvd, or not approved, they must be
.sued upon within three months. If sued without a retusal
to allow or approve, there can be no recovery: The absence
of such fact is fatal to the action.*
The order of sale sets forth that the claim had been
allowed by the administrator, but is silent as to its approval
by the judge. The plaintiffs in error argued that this omisโขsion rendered the order a nullity.
The application of the judgment-creditor and the answer
of the administrator gave the judge jurisdiction over the
parties.and the real estate of the deceased.t Jurisdiction is
the power to hear and determiie. To make the order of
sale required the exercise of this power. It was the business
and duty of the court to ascertain and decide whether the
facts were such as called for that action. The question
always arises in such proceedings-and must be determined
-whether, upon the case as presented, affirmative or negative action is proper. The power to review and reverse the
,decision so made is clearly appellate in its character, and
can be exercised only by an appellate tribunal in a proceeding had directly' for that purpose.. It cannot aid ought not
to be done by another court, in another case, where the subject is presented incideintally, and a reversal sought in such
collateral, proceeding. The settled rule of law is'that juristPascbal's Digest, Article 1309, 1311 ; Danzeyv. Swinney, 7 Texas, 625;
Martin v. Harrison, 2 Texas, 456.
t Paschal's Digest, Article 1305.

CORNETT V. WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

diction having attached in the original case, everything done
within the power of that jurisdiction, when collaterally questioned, is to be held conclusive of the rights of the parties,
unless impeached for fraud. Every inteudment is made to
support the proceeding. It is regarded as if it were regular
in all things and irreversible for error. In the absence of
fraud no question can be collaterally entertained as to anything lying within the jurisdictional sphere of the original
case. Infinite confusion and mischiefs would ensue if the
rule were otherwise. These remarks apply to the order of
sale here in question. The County Court had the power to
make it and did make it. It is presumed to have been
properly made, and the question of its propriety was not
open to examination upon the trial in the Circuit Court.
These propositions are sustained by a long and unbroken
line of adjudicatiolns.in this court. The last one was the
case of l1efill v. Tarner.* They are not in conflict with the
adjudications of Texas upon the subject.
The statute of 'exas does not require the evidence upon
which the judgment of the court proceeded to be set forth
in the record. Such a statement can do no good, and its
omission does no harm'.
As regards public officers, ' acts done which presuppose
the existence of other acts to make them legally operative,
are presumptive proofs of the latter."t "Facts presumed
are as effectually established as facts proved, where no presumption is allowed." In the case of Ward's Lessee v. BarrOws,l a sale for taxes came under examination. It was held
that certain acts of the county auditor were presumptive
proof' that he-had adniinistered to the collector the oath
prescribed by law touching the delinquent list. The 'shle
was sustained. Here the judge who made the order of sale
was the judge to approve the claim. The order was presumptive proof of the requisite approval. Such approval
was necessarily iniplied, and what is implied in a record,
16 Wallace, 866.

t Bank of the United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheaton, 70.
I . 2 Ohlb State. 247

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. HERRON.
Statement of the case.

pleading, will, deed, or contract, is as effectual as what is
expressed.*
The proceedings touchifig the sale were pr~perly admitted
in evidence, and the instruction given to the jury upon the
subject was correct.
The last assignment of error relates to fraud in obtaining
the order of sale.
It seems to us that the evidence disclosed in the record
was hardly sufficient to raise any question upon that subject.
However that may be, the instruction given to the jury was
unexceptionable, and the plaintiffs in error have no right to
complain.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. HERRON.
1. A debt due to the United States, though it be by one v.hp owes it as a
surety only, is not barred by the debtor's discharge with certificate, under
the Bankrupt Act-of 1867; although the United State& may prove its
debt and has priority of other creditors; and though the act provides, in
general terms, that the certificate shall release the bankrupt "from aU
debts, claims, liability, and demands, which were or might have been
- proved against his estate in bankruptcy," and that it may be pleaded
"as a full and complete bar of any such debts, claims, liabilities, or demands."
2. No general words in a statute divest the government of its rights or
remedies.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
The Bankrupt Act of 1867-which in is general outlines,
as in many of its details, follows (as did prior Bankrupt Acts
of the United States passed in 1800 and 1841), the British
Bankrupt Acts-enacts that a discharge duly granted under
the act shall, with the exceptions of debts' created by the
* United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 61.

