86

PACIFIc RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
be in bad faith towards existing creditors, as, clearly, it was
out of all proportion to the means of the husband, considering his state and condition, and seriously imliairs his ability
to respond to the demands of his creditors.
It is well settled, where a deed is set aside as void as to existing creditors, that all the creditors, prior and subsequent,
share in the fund pro rabc.*
We have cousidered the contract in this case as if it were
executed, because no point is made by the respondents that
it is executory, and the case has been argued by both sides
on the theory that the law applicable to an executed contract
of this sort applied to the one in controversy. It may well
be doubted whether in any case a mere promise by the husband, without considerittion, to pay money to the wife at a
future time, can be enforced against the claims of creditors.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

PAOIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.
1. The twelfth section of the act of the Missouri legislature, passed December
25tbh, f'852, by which it was declared that"The Pacific Railroad shall be exempt from taxation until the same shall be
completed, opened, and in operation, and shall declare a dividend, when the
road-bed, buildings, machinery, engines, cars, and other property of such completed rosJ, shall be subject to taxation at the actual cash value thereof:
".Provided, That if said company, shall fail, for the period of two years after
said roads respectively shall be completed and putin operation, to declare a
dividend, that then said company shall no longer be exempt from the payment
of said tax-"

created a contract that, subject to the proviso, the railroad should not
be taxed.
iqlagawley's Trust, 5 De Gex & Smales, 1; Richardson v. Smallwood,
Jacob, 552-558; Savage v." Iurphy, 34 N w. York, 508; Iley v. Niswanger,
Harper's Equity, 295; Robinson v. Stewart, 10 New York (6 Selden), 1 9;
Thompson v. Dougherty, 12 Sergeant & Rawle, 448, 455, 458; Hoke v.
1enderson, 3 Devereux, 12-14; Kissam v. Edmundson, 1 Iredell's Equity,
180; Sexton v. WVheaton, 1 American Leading Case4, 45; Norton v. Norton,
5 Cushing, 529; O'Daniel vc.Crawford, 4 Devereux, 197-204; Reade v. Livingston, 3 Johnson's Chancery, 481-4.99; Townshend v. Windham, 2 Vesey,
10; Jenkyn v.Vaughan, 3 Drewry, 419-424.

Oct. 1873.]

PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.

37

Statement of the case.
2. The ordinance adopted as part of the State constitttion, by the people of
Missouri, July 4th, 1865, levying a tax on the gross receipts of the company,, within two years after it was completed and put in operation, in
order to pay debts of the State, contracted -in order to help to build the
road. (and which the railroad company was, as between itself and the
State, primarily bound to pay)impaired the obligation of the contract,
'and was void.

to the Si'preme Court of Missouri, 'the question
involved having been the rightof a tax-collector of the State
of Missouri to levy a tax authorized by an ordinance of the
State named, on the property of the Pacific Railroad CoinERROR

pany, a corporation incorporated by the said State.
case was thus:

The.

By an act of March 12th, 1849, the railroad company
was incorporated, as already nientioned, with a capital of
$10;000,000, for the purpose of building a raill'oad across
the State, from the city of St. Louis, on the eastern line of
the State, to a point indicated in the western line. Authority
was given to the counties through which it should pass to
subscribe for the stock, and it was invested also with the.
powers.usually conferred upon such companies.
By an act passed February 22d, 1851, it was enacted that
when a certain sum had been collected of the capital stock
and ,expended in the survey and construction of"the road,
the bonds of the State to the same amount should be lent to
the road, and further loans were- authorized, not to exceed
$2,000,000. The loan was-made a lien on the road, and the
company was .required to pay the principal and interest of
the bonds.
By an 'act of December 25th, 1852, certain public lands
were vested in the company, and the company were authorized to build a southwestern branch road to the western.
boundary of the- State. provision was made'for the issue of
an additional $1,000,000 of the bonds of the State, to be used
in aid of the work proposed, with precaution that subscriptions should have been made and should previously have
been applied by the company to amounts stated, and that
the bonds should not be sold at less than their par value,

38

PACIFIC RATLROAD

COMPANY V.

MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and that the road should be completed and put in operation
within five years after the passage of the act. The companies
were to pay the principal and interest of these boiids also,
and the State had its lien.
The twelfth section contained the following provision
"The said Pacific Railroad and the said Southwestern Branch
Railroad shall be exempt from taxation respectively until the
same shall be completed, opened, and in operation, and shall
declare a dividend, when the road-bed, buildings, machinery,
engines, cars, and other property of such completed road, at
the cash value thereof, shall be subject to taxation at the rate
assessed by the State on other real and personal property of
like value .... Provided, that if said company shall fail, for the
period of two years after said roads respectively shall be completed and put in operation, to declare a dividend, then the said
company shall no longer be exempt from the payment of said
tax, nor from the forfeitures and penalties in this section imposed."
This act and its grants were duly accepted by the company, in a mode which the act prescribed, in case the company desired to accept it.
This constituted one ground relied on, in connection with
certain other matters, by the company. 1Now, as to another
ground relied on by them, in connection with the saie certain other matters, as grodind independent of that already
stated.
With the outbreak of the rebellion, in 1861, both the railroad company and the State made default in the payment
of the interest on the State bonds, and on the 10th of February, 1864, the westernmost sixty-five miles of' the road
being yet unfinished, the legislature passed an act authorizing the company to issue its bonds for $1,500,000 and to
mortgage' that unfinished part; the State agreeing to relinquish for this object an(1 to this extent her first lien, and retaining only a second one.
The bonds when issued were to be delivered to a fund
commissioner, created by the act, and to be sold by him,

Oct. 1873.]

PACIFIC *RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.

.39

Statement of the case.

and the money arising from such sale was to be applied by
him to the construction and equipment of the road. The
act also required all the gross earnings of the road to be'paid
to said fund comm1i'ssioner, and that he should, after paying
the running expeibses of the road and his salary, apply the
residue, first to th e extension and equipment of the road
until it was completed, (ifter reserving sufficient foir the pay:
ment of the interest accruing semi-annually on tlhe bonds
sold; secondly, to t1le purchase or payment of the bonds;
third, to the pay'menfof the interest oi certain other bonds
authorized by the act, which were never issued; fourth, to
the payment of dividejids ol certain preferred stock, also
authorized by the act,,which was never issued; the slrplus,
if any, to'the purchase of State bonds with the intei'est
coupons.
This act was duly accepted by tllq company. The fund
commissioner was appointed,, the mortgage executed, the
bonds issued by the company and s6ld by the fund commissioner, and the "money arising from such sales and from
the earnings of the road was applied by him in the manner
provided in the act.
The fund commissioner continued in the discharge of
the dutieo imposed by the act until October, 1868, when his
office 'was abolished, the bonds being at that time still unpaid.
On the 4th day of July, 1865, the present constitution of
Missouri, together with an ordinance known as the Railroad
Ordinance as a part thereof, went into effect. The provisions of the ordinance are as follows:
"SECTION 1. There shall be levied and collected from the Pacific Railroad Company, the North MKissouri Railroad Company,
and the St. Louis and Iron Mountain Railroad Company, an
annual tax of ten per centunm of all .tbeil-gross receipts for the
transportation of freight and passengers (not including amounts
received from and taxes paid to the United States), from the 'st
of October, 1866, to the 1st of October, 1868,.and fifteen per
centum thereafter; which tax shall be assessed and collected in
.*

40

PACIFIc RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the county of St. Louis, in the same manner as other State taxes
are assessed and collected, and shall be appropriatedby the General
Assembly to the payment of the principal and interest now due or
heeafter to become due, upon the bonds of the State, and the bonds
guaranteed by the State, issued to the afbresaid rairoadcompanies.
" The tax in this ordinance specified shall be collected from
each company hereinbefore named only for the payment of the
.principal and interest on the bonds for the payment of which
such company shall be liable; and whenever such bonds and
interest shall have been fully paid, no further tax shall be collected from such company, but nothing shall be received by the
State in discharge of any amounts due upon said bonds except
cash or other bonds or obligations of this State.
"Should either of said companies refuse or neglect to pay
said tax, as herein required, and the interest or priilcipal of any
of said bonds, or an- part thereof, remain due and uinpaid, the
General Assembly shall provide by law for the sale of the railroad and other property, and the franchises of the company that
shall 'be thus in default, under the lien reserved to the State, and
shall appropriate the proceeds of such sale to the payment of
the ambunt remaining due and unpaid from said company."
At the time of the passage of this ordinance the road was
under constructio, and it was not completed and put in
operation until, the 1st of April, 1866. It was then completed and put in operation.
In pursuan~ce of the ordinance above quoted, one Maguire,
a dollector of taxes for the State of Misso'uri, assessed a~tax
against the company for' the year beginning October 1st,
1866, at 10 per cent.) on $2,536,440, that ,being the gross
earnings of the :oad for that year.
The tax was assessed in the same manner as other State
taxes were assessed in said county, 10 per cent. as a tax
under the ordinancejust above recited, amounting to the sum
of $253,644. No dividend had been declared or paid when the
lecy in qtestion was made, and two years had not elapdedfrom the
completion of the road.
The company refused to pay the tax and Maguire seized
its property. The company sued him for a trespass. He
justified under the ordinance.

Oct. 1873.]

PACIFIC

RAILROAD COMPANZ

v. MAGUIRE.

41

Positions of the company.-Positions of the collector.

A case setting forth the facts above given was agreed on
and stated, for the judgmefit pf the court, and on it the company contended that the ordinkance was unconstitutional so
far as it ,affected them, because it was a law passed by the
State "impairing the obligation of contracts," and because
it deprived the company of its property without due process
of law.
It was agreed that if the court adjudged the ordinauce invalid it should give judgment in favor of th company for
six cents damages and costs;, aud if valid give judgment
against it for costs onfly. The Supreme Court of Missouri
adjudged the ordinance valid, and the company brought the
case here.

Messrs. IX. ..

Evarts, .. Baker, and .7. B. Henderson, for

the coinpany, plai'tiff in error, placed the case on the following among other. grounds:
1. That by the twelfth section of the act of December
25th, 1852, the company was exempted from the paymient of
the tax in question.
2. That by the act of February 10th, 1864, the entire
oarnings of the road were appropriated to other purposes,
wholly inconsistent with the payment of the tax in question,
and that they were actually paid to the agent of the State as
therein required, and by him paid out under the authority
of the said act.

Messrs. kontgomery Blair and F. A. -Dick,,with whdiz was
.Mr. A. -H.Buckner, contra, contended :
1. That the twelfth section of the act of 25th December,
1852, referred to tax for general purposes, and applied onlly
to tax on the corporate property, road-bed, machinery, buildings, &c.;, and that the act would not pi-vent a tax on the
franchise or on the earnings of ihe company.
2. That the ordinance did not impose a tax, since it merely
applied the income of the company to the payment of debts
which were alike debts of the State and of the compaity.

i2

PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
'The first question is this: B the acts organizing this
d6mpany, and by the acts loaning the credit of the State
and'the proceedings under the same, was an agreement created on the part of the State that the Pacific road should
not be taxed until ,it
was built and finished and had declared
a dividen'd, and that for two years after it was finished it
should be liable to 'taxation only in common with other
prdperty of 'the State and at the same rate ?
The right of taxation is a'sovereign right, and presumptively beloqgs to the State in regard to every species of property afid tol an unlimited extent. The right may be waived
'in particular instances, but this -can only be done by a clear
expression of the legislative will. The cases of Tomlinson v.
Branch,* and Tondinson v. Jessup,t in this court, and many
others referred' to in those cases, show that when a contract
of exemption from taxation is thus established it is binding
upon the State, and the aefion of the State in the passage of
laws violating its tel'ms will not, be sustained.j: The principles of law are gufficiently settled. The real question arise'
up6n their application to the facts of the case.
"Upon the. facts presented by the agreed case before us we
are of "the'opinionIst. That the twelfth section of th6 act of 1852 created a
conti-act between the State anq the railroad .company, by
which the railroad was exempt from taxation until it was
completed andput in operation, and until it should declare
a dividend on its capital stock,, not, however, extending
longer than two yea's after.-its com'pletion.
2d. That the ordinance of 1865, imposing a tax of ten per
cent. upon its gross earnings before the road wascomp'leted
,and in operation, and had declared a dividend, was-a violation of this contract,.and that the levy foI" its enforcement
was -illegal.
We omit a refer~ence to other questions which have been
* 15 Wallace, 469.

t1b. 454.

+ ")sborne v. Mobile, 16 Id. 481; Humphrey v. Pegues, Ib. 247, where
the caus are collected.

Oct. 1873.]

PAcIFIc RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.

43

Opinion of the court.

argued and express no opinion upon them. We- base our
opinion upon the effect of the statutes already cited.
The authorities Which have.been referred to show that a
'State legislature may make a contract to exempt a corporation from taxation by which it will b6 bound.
That the facts recited constitute such an agreement we
think sufficiently plain. The Pacific corporatioi Was unable
to raise funds f6r conpleting its road. To induce it to go
on with its work and to induce individuals and counties to
subsc'ribe for what the legislature evidently deemed an "enterprise of public benefit, it made loans.of the credit of the
State from tiffle to time. To make the franchise still more
valuable to the company, and to the end that individuals
and couihties should be induced to subscribe to the- stock,
the legislature added an exemption from taxation until the
road should be completed and in operation, and should have
declared a dividend. That the money value of this exemption was great is evident from the fact that the tax imposed
for a single year, commencing Octob6r 1st, 1860, amounted

to $253,644.
This transaction amounted to a contract between the Stafe6
and the corporation that there should be no taxation'of the
company until the occurrence of the stipulated events.* In
delivering the opinioni in The Wilmington Railroad v. Reidt
Mr. Justice Davis s': '"It has been so often debided by
this court that a charter of incorporation 'granted by a State
creates a contract between 'the State and the corporators,
which the State cannot violate, that it 1,ottld be a work of
supererogtion to repeat the reasons on which the argument
is founded

...

If the boutract is plain and unambiguous,

and the meaning of, the parties to it can be clearly ascertained, it is the duty of the court to give 'effect to' it the
same as if it were a contract between private persons, without regard to its supposed injurious effects upon the P'ublic
interests."
Humphrey v. Pegues, 16 Wallace, 244; Wilmington Railroad v. Reid,
18 Id. 264.
t 13 Wallace, 266.

