Oct. 1873.]

BuRtTON v. DRiG-s.
Statement of the ease.

BURTON V. DRtGGS.
1..Where a party excepts to the admission of testimony he is bound.to state
his objection specifically, and in a proceeding for error he is confined to
the objection so taken. If he assign no ground of exception, the mere
objection cannot avail him. He.nce, where an original deposition, regularly taken, sealed up, transmitted, opened, and filed in the case, was
lost, and a copy, taken under the direction of the clerk of the court and
sworn to as a true copy. was offered in evidence in its place, an objection
'to the copy "on the ground that it was not the original" is too indefinite
to let in argument that tie witness was alive, and that the lost deposition coluld only be supplied by another one by the same witness, and
that secondary evidence was inadmissible to prove the contents of the
first deposition.
2. If the objection had been made in a form its specific as by the argument aLbovementioned it was sought to be made, itwould be insufficient,
it ap eai'ng that the.witness lived in another State, arid more than.a
hundred miles from the place of trial.
3. When it is necessary to prove the results of an examination of many
books of a bank to show a particular fact, as ex gr., that A. B. never at
any time lent money to a bank, and the examination cannot be conveniently made-in court, the results may bo proved by persons who made
the examination, the books being out of the State and beyond the jurisdiction of .the court.
4. Where one, fraudulently exhibiting to another a setled instrument reciting that the person exhibiting it has a claim for a sum of money on a
third party (he hai.hg no claim'whatsoever), fraudulently induced that
other to. buy it from him, and such other buying it, pays him in money
for it, and takes an assignment under seal on the back of the instrument, the person thus defrauded may recover his money in assumpsit,
on a declaration containing special counts setting out the instrumeit as
inducement, and averring the utter falsity of its recitations, and the
fraud of the whole transaction; the declaration containing also the common counts.

E'aiotR to the Circuit Court for the District of Vermont;
the case being thus:
A certain 0. A. Burton, of Vermont, in April, 1859, meeting in New York with one William Driggs, of Michigan,
offered to sell to him a claim on the Bank of Tiogza County,
Pennsylvania, which he, Burton, alleged that he had against
it; and by way of showing the reality of his claim exhibited
to Driggs a paper, under seal, executed by him, Burton,

BURTON V. DRiGGs.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and three other persons, bearing (late October 20th, 1858,
whereby it was recited and agreed as follows:
"-That the parties had severally furnished to the Tioga Bank,
to enable it to redeem its bills promptly, certain sums of money,
.to wit, O.:A. Burton, $7060.18, &e.; that the bank was to refund
said moneys as soon as it was in a condition to do so, and that it
would lend to said parties, not exceeding $10,000 at any one
time, on paper payable in New York, with interest at the rate
of five per cent. per annum; that the Tioga Bank had advanced,
to be paid in on the stock of the Pittston Bank, of Pennsylvania,
$9870, which money belonged to the fbur parties to the instrument, and it was agreed that each of the parties owned onefourth part thereof, less cost and expenses."
Driggs bought the claim, paying $7060.18 for it; and Burton miade this assignment on the back of' the paper which
lie had shown Driggs:
"For and in consideration of the sum of $7060.18, I do hereby
sell, assign, transfer, and set over to William Driggs, my interest'
of an equal amount in the Tioga County Bank, paid in according to a certain contract made October 20th, 1858, between 0.
A. Burton, and others, which is hereto attached, with all the
rights and privileges therein which I have, or should have had,
if this sale had not been made.
"Witness my hand and seal this 29th day of April, 1859.
"0. A BuLTON." [L. s.]
Upon presenting his newly purchased claim soon afterwards at the Tioga County Bank, Driggs was informed
that Mr. 0. A. Burton had no claim whatever on the bank;
that he was not a stockholder in it; that his name was not
to be found on its lrooks, and that in the alleged sale a gross
fraud had been practiced.
Hereupon, Driggs sued Burton in the court below in assumpsit. The nart. contained certain counts setting out the
instrument which Burton had shown to him as inducement,
and averred that the recitals which it made were wholly
false ; that Burton had no claim whatever on the bank, and
that the plaintiff had got nothing whatever from it.

Oct. 1873.]

BURTON v. DRIGGS.
Statement of the case.

Burton, admitting that he had no such claim against the
bank as was recited in the paper, set up in defence that he
did in fact own certain powers of attorney to transfer stock
in that hank, executed by parties who owned such stock,
and for which lie paid $10,000; that he had explained to
Driggs at the time of the assignment to him that such was
the real nature of the claim transferred to him, and he delivered to him these powers of attorney; and that Driggs
had received them and subsequently acted under thei, participated in an election of directors, and assisted in redeeming the notes of the bank in circulation.
In reply, Driggs gave evidence tending to prove tbat this.
allegation*was as false as had been the other', and that he
never received any consideratidn, benefit, or return whatever, directly or indirectly, for the'money paid for it.
The powers were not produced by.Burton, nor did he
give any evidence to show from whom he obtained them,
by whom or how they were signed, in what amoumt, or what
became of them.
Driggs gave evidence tending to prove that nd such powers
to transFer stock had ever been issued by the bank.
Upon these facts Driggs sought to recover back the money
paid by him upon the grounds:
1. Of the warranty of Burton, both expressed and implied, that the claim assigned to the defendant in error was
genuine:
2. That the money was obtained from him by Burton,
througgh fraud, and without equivalent:
3. That the consideration upon which the money was paid
and received, had totally failed.
The case being closed, the court-refusing several requests
of the defendants for instructions, and among them t request
to charge that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover on
his special counts nor to recover in the action-intinated
an opinion in favor of the plaintiff upon the first and third
points. But for the purposes of the trial instructed the jury
to find whether the sale and representations made by Burton
were such ns he alleged, or whether they were such as were

BURTON V." DRIGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statenent cf the cetse.

-

alleged by Driggs, and that if they were such as were alleged by Burton that the verdict should be inl his favor.
That if they were such as were alleged by Driggs, then to
find whether or not they were true; that if*true, the verdict
should be in ftvor of Burton.
That if untrue, the jury should then find whether Driggs
received any interest in the bank whatever by the assignment, or in the transaction, either such as that described in
the paper, or such as Burton alleged that he had transferred
to him. If he did, the verdict should be for Burton.
But that the payment of the money and the'execution of'
the assignment being admitted, if the jury found the representations to have been such as Driggs alleged; that they
were untrue in tact; that Burton had no such claim as he
sold, and that Driggs. received nothing whatever under the
assigumentior in the transaction, then that the verdict should
be for the plaintiff, Driggs, fbr the money which he had paid.
The jury found in favor of the plaintiff, for the amount
paid and interest, being $12,078.64; and judgment having
been entered accordingly,'the defendant brought the case
here on error.
In the course of the trial the pliintiff offered to read a
copy of the deposition of one Vine De Pue, a person who
lived in another State, and more than one hundred miles
from the place of trial; and whose depo sition had been taken
under the act of Congress authorizing depositions to be taken.
"when the testimony of any person shall be necessary iiany
who shall live at a greater distance from the
civil cause
.place of trial than one hundred miles." No proof was given
that the said De Piue was dead. The bill of exceptions said:
4 The plaintiff proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that
the original deposition was regularly and properly taken in this
cause, sealed up,transmitted to the clerk of this court, and by
him properly opened and filed, all in accordance with the provisions :of tile act of Congress; that said deposition was lost
and could not be found; that the copy offered was a true copy,
taken under the direction of the" clerk, and by him compared
with the original and certified. '

Oct. 1873.]

BURTON V- DRTGGS.
Statement of the case.

"The defendant objected to the admission of the copy on the
ground that it was not the original. The court overruled the objection and admitted the- deposition, to which decision the-defen'dant excepted."
This was the -first exception.
The plaintiff then proved that the'books of the Bank of
Tioga County were in Tioga, Pennsylvania, where the bank
itself was situated'; that he had endeavored to obtain them
for use on this trial; but -that the officers of "thebank who
had them in their keeping refused to let them go away from
,the bank. He' then offered the depositioi of one C. P.
Steers, and of A. C. Turner.,
Steers had been cashier of the bank from the 15th of September, 1858, up to the 29th day of April, 1859. He thus
testified:
"During the entire period that I was cashier I had charge of
the financial affairs of the bank, and was well acquainted and
familiar with all'the financial business and matters of the bank.
0. A. Burton did not, at any time during that period, loan, ad:
vance, or furnish to the said Tioga County Bank the 'sum of
$7060.18, nor any other sum of money. The name of 0. A.
Burtonwas never on the booksof the bank, nor did the bank
at any time during the- said period owe the said Burton for-advance or otherwise; and don't think that the name of said Burton appeared upon the books' of the bank as a stockholder
during said period of time."
Turner, former cashier,of the bank; aiid who had served as
cashier from December, 1859; to August 18th, 1867, thus
testified:
"In July, 1859, I made a careful examination -of the books
and papers of the bank for the purpose of ascertainingits condition, assets, and liabilities. I examined all the books and papers
in the bank relating to its affairs from.the time'of its organization down to July, 1859, and on that, examination I found no
evidence in the bank of any kind thatO.-A. Burton ever had any
connection with the bank, either as debtor, or creditor, or stockholder, or.any interest of any kind whatever in the bank. I
afterwards examined the books of the bank again at the request
VOL. XX.

9

BURTON v. DRIGas.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the phLintiff in error.

of the plaintiff in this suit, and with direct reference to the
matters involved in this suit, and Idid notfind that on the 20th
day of October, 1858, or on the 29th day of April, 1859, or at
any other time, that the bank was indebted to 0. A. Burton in
the sum of $7060.18, or in any other sum. I did not find the
name of 0. A. Burton on the books of the bank in any way."
The counsel of the defendant objected to the admission in
evidence of such parts of these depositions as referred to
what appeared, or did not appear, on the books of the Tioga
County Bank. But thd court allowed the depositions as
above set forth to be read.
3Mr. L. P. Poland,for the plaintiff in error:
I. The court erred in a(lnitfing the paper said to be a copy of
the deposition of Vine De Pue.
The Federal courts have ever held parties to strict conformity to the statutes authorizing and prescribing the occasions, mode, and form of takin.g depositions. No statute
of Congress-no decision-authorizes the use, as evidence,
of a copy of a deposition, where the original is lost. The
action of the court below must rest, for its justification,
upon the cominon-law doctrine, that secondary evidence is
admissible, when the primary cannot be had-as, parol evidence of the contents of a lost writing. But there are good
reasons why this doctrine should not be extended to the
case of lost depositions; as1st. The statutes authorizing the use of depositions in
cases at law, are variant from common law, and imply the
existence 'of a better kind of evidence, viz., the testimony
of the witness in open court; and allow depositions only in
peculiar cases, and to prevent a possible failure of justice.
As far, therefore, as the statute goes we may follow, but no
further. Depositions themselves are regarded as only secondary evidence.*
2d. The rule requiring the best evidence attainable to be
used in the cause, demands that the witness, who is apparently
* Haupt v. Henninger, 87 Pennsylvania State, 138.

Oct. 1873.]

BURTON

v, DRIGGS.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

in life, should be produced, not to testify to what he once
testified to in a deposition, but what he at the time of the
trial kn6ws of the Matter. ,For this (the best evidence) the
statute allows, in peculiar cases, an inferior grade, viz., .a
deposition made out of court; but goes no further. The
common rule then should exclude evidence of a still inferior
grade (as, a cop' of a deposition), so long, at least, as the
testimony of the witness in court or a new deposition can be
obtained.
3d. It might be safely admitted, that if the witness had
died, the contents 'of his deposition, being lost, might be
proved; for, in such case, this would have been the best
attainable evidence. But it would be of dangerous precedent and practice to allow secondary evidence of the contents of depositions, except in case of such absolute necessity, If proof of what the witness swore could be made by
a copy of his deposition, it could be made by any other evidence of contents, as by the recollection of a witness, siice
there are no degrees in secondary evidence.*
Here, too, the court erroneously determined not only the
question of loss of the original, but the accuracy of the copy.
Two Vermont decisions,. -ollet v. Murrayt and Low v.
_Peters,j are decisive of this question.,
I. The depositions of Turner and Steers were uirongly received.
1st. The books of the bank were but private writings,
and were not evidence per se-certainly not as to strangers
-- though admissible perhaps as meifioranda, in aid of the
testimony of the party making them. They were used
purely as substantive evidence.
2d. Before the.admission of secondary evidence of the
contents of the books, more especially evidence of what does
not appear upon the books, it shohld have been proved- that
the bank had and kept books, and their authenticity; that
those books had upon them, in regular entry, items, and all
* Brown v.Woodman, 6 Carrington & Payne, 206 (25"English Common
Law, 358).
86 Id. 177.
t 17 Vermont, 580.

BURTOk

v.

DRIGGs.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

items of' the class represented by the said defendant's claims.
It is only in such case that the absence of all entry representing the defendant's claim could furnish all inference of
the non-existence of the claim.
No preliminary evidence of this kind was given, but these
preliminary facts were assn ned.
Turner's deposition is limited to what he found, and to
what he did not find upon what he calls the books of the
bank, kept, not by himself, but before he became cashier.
-This witness's in'torpretation of the meaning of the books to
his mind was clearly not evidence, nor was his construction
of the contract, which was exhibited to him. 'If the contents
of these bank books were evidence, and they could be proved
without production of the books themselves, then the proof
should be by an examined and sworn copy of the books.
Instead of this, Turner swears only to the result of his examination. As clearly the statements of Steers were not admissible evidence.
III. As to the charge.
The contract in this case, as well as the assignment, were
under seal. The action proceeds upon an assumpsit of the
defendant, that he was the lawful owner of a claim of
$7060.18, mentioned in the sealed instrument, against the
Tioga County Batik. It is for a breach of this agreement
that the suit is brought. Now, if the contract has this force,
and there is any such agreement in it, whether expr-essed or
implied, it is a covenant and not a simple assumpsit, and
the action should be covenant.* Upon this idea, the first
request of the defendant below should have been answered;
.certainly the first branch of it.
In the charge as given, the ease was put wholly upon the
ground of want of consideration, or of an implied wari'anty;
grounds which we must suppose may not have entered into
the argument for the defence.
This was a double error: 1st. This position was inconsistent with the form of action, as applied to a sealed coli* Young v. Preston, 4 Cranch, 239.

Oct. 1873.]

BURTON V. IbRIGGS.
Opinion, of the court.

tract. 2d. It was misleading in the argument ofthe case,
working a surprise and a mistrial.
Mr. E. J. Phelps, contra.,
Mr. Justice S WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The .first assignment of error relates to the admission in
evidence of a copy. of the deposition of Vine De Pue.
The bill of exceptions sets forth that the original' deposition 'was regularly taken, sealed up, and transmlitted to the
clerk of the court where the cause was pending, and by him
properly opened and filed; and that thereafter it was lost
and could not be found; and that the copy offered was a
true copy, taken under the direction of the clerk, and by
him compared and certified. The exception is as follows:
"The defendant objected to the, copy on the ground that it
was not the original. The court overruled the exception
and adniitted the deposition, to which dedision the defendant
excepted."
It is' a rule of law that where a party excepts to tle admission of testimony he is hound to state his objection specifically, and in a proceeding for error he is confined to the
objection so taken.. If he assign no ground of exception,
the mere objection cannot avail him.* In Hinde's Lessee v.
Longworth this court said: "As. a. general rule, we think
the ptirty ought to be eonfined; in examining the admissibility of evidence, to the specific objection taken to it. The
attention of the court is called to the testimony in that point
of'view.only." Here the objection was that the copy was
not the original. This, as a fact, was self-evident; but as a
ground of 'objection it was wholly indefinite. It does not
appear to have been suggested that the place of-the lost deposition could only be supplied by another one of the same
witness retaken, and that secondary evid6nce was iuadmissible to prove the.contents of the former. If the contents
Camden v. Doremus, 8 Howard, 515; Hinde's Lessee v. Longworth, 11
- "Wheaton, 199.

BURTON V. DRIGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the one lost could be proved at all by such evidence, that
offered was certainly admissible for that purpose. But the
objection was presented in the argument before us in the
latter shape, and we shall consider it accordingly.
It is an axiom in the law of evidence that the contents of
any written instrument lost or destroyed may be proved by
competent evidence. Judicial records an& all other documents of a kindred character are within the rule.* But it is
said a different rule as to depositions-unless the witness be
dead-obtains in Vermont, and the cases of Follett v. Murrayt and Low v. Pelerst are referred to as supporting the
exception.
Those cases are unlike the one before us. In .Follett v.
Murray the witness resided within the State, and there being
no copy of the caption'i it did not appear that the deposition
had been regularly taken. In the other case the witness
was dead, and no question was raised as to any defect in
the lost original. The copy was, therefbre, admitted as of
course. If a deposition be not properly taken it is not made
admissible by the death of the witness.ยง In Harper v. Cook,jj
it was held that the.contents of a lost affidavit might be
shown by secondary evidence. The necessity of retaking it
was not suggested. In the.present case the witness lived in
another State and more than one hundred miles from the
place of trial. The process of the court could not reach
him; for all jurisdictional purposes he was as if he were
dead. It is well settled that if books or papers necessary as
evidence in a court iri one State be in the possession of a
person living in another State, secondary evidence, without
Aurther showing, may be given to prove the contents of such
papers, and notice to produce'-them is unnecessary.jf Here,
* Renner v. The Bank of Colurnbia, 9 Wheaton, 581; Riggs v. Tayloe,
1b. 483; 1 Greenleaf's Evidence, 509.
$ 36 Id. 177.
t 17 Vermont, 530.
11l'Carrington & Payne, 139.
Johnson v. Clark, 1 Tyler, 449.
JShepard v. Giddings, 22 Connecticut, 282; Brown v Wood, 4 Bennet
(19 Missouri), 475; Teall v. Van Wyck, 10 Barbour, 376 ; see also Boone v.
Dykes, 3 Monroe, 532; Eaton v. Campbell, 7 Pickering, 10; Bailey v. Johnson, 9 Cowen, 115, Mauri v. Heffernan, 13 Jehnson, 58.

Oct. 1873.]

BURTON

V. DRIoGS.

Opinion of the court.

there was nothing to prevent the operation of the general
rule .as to proof touching writings lost or destroyed. The
deposition was one of the files iii the case. The plaintiff was
entitled to the benefit of the contents of that document.
Having been lost without his fault, he was not bound to
Supply its place by another and a different deposition, which
might, or might not, be the same in effect with the prior
one.
There was no error in admitting in evidence the copy to
which this exception relates.
The next assignment of error is the admission in evidence
"of such parts of the depositions of A. L. Tulrner and C. P.
Steers as refer to what appeared or did not appear on the
books of the Tioga County Bank." It was shown by the
plaintiff in this connection that the books in question were
in the yillage of Tioga, Pennsylvania, that the plaintiff had
endeavored to obtain them for use on this trial, and that
those having the custody of them refused to permit them to
go. The testimony of Turner was, in substance, that he was
the cashier, that he had examined the books and papers-in
the bank relating to its affitirs fiom its organization down to
July, 1859, and that he foud no evidence of any kind that
the defendant ever had any connection or transactioh with
the bank, or any interest in it whatever; and that subsequently, at the request of the plaintiff and for the purposes of
this suit, he repeated the examination with the same result.
Steers testified that he was cashier of the bank from about
the 15th of September, 1858, to abbut the 29th of April, 1859,
and that during that time the defendant, Burton, did not furnish to the bank $7060.18, or any other sum of money, that
his name was never on the books of the bank, nor did the
bank owe him anything on any account'during that period;
and'that the wittiess did not think-his name appeared on the
books of the 'bank as a stockholder during that time. The
books being out of the State and beyond the jurisdiction of
the court, secondary evidence to prove their contents was
admissible.

BURTON V. DRIGGS.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of te court.

When it is necessary to prove the results of voluminous
facts or of the examination of many books and papers, and
the examination cannot be conveniently made in court, the
results may be proved by the person who made the examination.* Here the object was to prove, not that the books
did, but that they (lid not show certain things. The results
sought to be established were not affirmative, but negative.
If such testimony be competent as to the former, a mullofortiori must it be so to prove th6 latter.
The last assignment relates to the charge of the court.
The examination of this subject renders it necessary to
refer briefly to the cause of action. The defendant, Burton,
and three others, executed an instrument, under seal, beariqg (late October 20th, 1858, whereby it was recited' and
;greed as follows: That the parties had severally furnished
to the Tioga Bank, to enable it to redeem its bills promptly,
certain sums of money, to wit, 0. A. Burton, $7060.18, &c.;
that the bank was to refund said moneys as soon as it was
in a condition to do so, and that it would lend to said parties,
not exceeding $10,000 at any one time, on paper payable in
New York, with interest at the rate of five per cent. per annuni; that the Tioga Bank had advanced, to be paid in on
the stock of the Pittston Bank: of Pennsylvania, $9870.00,
which uoney belonged to the four parties to the instrument,
and it was agreed that each of the parties owned bne-fourth
part t-hereof, less cost and expenses. To this paper was annexgd a further instrument, under seal, dated April 29th,
1859, whereby the defendant assigned to the plaintif, for
the consideration of $7060.18, his interest in that aybount
paid by him to the Tioga Bank, according to the instrument
first mentioned, with all the privileges relating thereto which
the assignor would have bad if the assignment had not been
made. The declaration contained several counts, setting
out the instrument as inducement and averring the utter
falsity Of its recitals. The common money counts were
* 1 Greenleaf's Evidence, J 93.

Oct. 1873.] TIOGA R. R.

V. ]ALOSSBURG

& CORNING R. R. 187

Syllabus.

added. The defendant admitted the receipt of the $7060.18,
stated ii .the assignment, as the consideration for making it,
but gave no evidence tending to prove that the recitals in
the instrument to which the assignment related were true.
Both parties submitted prayers for instructions. Both sets
were refused. Those of the defendant sought to defeat the
action because it had not been brought upon the Written instrument and the assignment. The court instructed the jury
in effect, with full and proper explanations, that if the transaction on the part of the defendant had been a fraud, and
there had been an entire failure of consideration, the plaintiff was entitled to recover.
The defendant excepted to these instructions, and to the
refusal.to give those which he had asked to be given. - The
former were correct in point of law.* The instructions
given -covered the whole case. It was not, therefore, the
duty of the learned judge to give others suggested by either
party. If wrong, the , were inadmissible, and if otherwise,
unriecessary.t We are satisfied with the charge as it appears in the record.

TIOGA 'RAILROAD

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

v.

.BLOSSBURG

AND

CORNING

.UAILROAD.

1. Where, in a judicial proceeding, the matter passed upon is thd right under
the language of a certain contract to take receipts on a railroad, the
judgment concludes the question of.the meaning of the contract on a
suit for subsequent tolls received under the same contract.
2. The highest courts of New York, construing the statutes of limitations of
that State, have decided that a foreign corporation cannot avail itself
of them; and this, notwithstanding such corporation was the lessee of
a railroad in New York, and had property within the State, and a
managing agont residing and keeping an office of the company.
Weaver v. Bentley, 1 Caines, 47; Gillet -. Maynard "5 Johnson, 85;
D'Utricht v. Melchor, 1 Dallas, 428; Wilson v. Jordan, a Stewart & Porter,
92; Eames v. Savage, 14 Massaclhsetts, 425; Lyon v. Annable, 4 Connecticut, 350; Pjklj v.James, 1'Huniph-rey, 325; 1 Swift's Digest, 400.
- Laber '.C-per, 7'r1!&"e 565.:

