Oct. 1874.]

LOAN AssoCIATIOZL V. TOPEKA.

656

Syllabus.

that judgment may in its turn be taken to the Supreme
Court for examination.
From the record it appdars that one of the defences set
up in the answer, to wit, that which was based upQn the implied acceptance of one-third of the proceeds of the guardian's sale in lieu of dower in the land, was not proven. On
a new trial that proof may be supplied and a.jpdgnient rendered thereon satisfactory to the now complaining party.
In that manner the present supposed Federal question may
be put out of the case. So, too, the present pleadings may
'be amended and a new case made, which will reuder unnecessary the consideratiqn of any question that can give this
court jurisdiction.
Thus it is apparent that the parties -have not vs yet exhausted the power of the State courts in the premises, and
until that is done our power cannot be called into action.
This court must be the last resort of litigants, in State courts.
WRIT DISMISSED.

LOAN ASSOCIATION v. TOPEKA.
1."
A statute which authorizes towns to contract debts or other obligations
payable in money implies the duty to levy taxes to pay them, unless
some other fund or source of payment is provided.
2. If there is no power in the legislature which passed such a statute to authorize the levy of taxes in aid of the purpose for which the obligation
is to be contracted, the statute is void, and so are the bonds or other
forms of contract based on the statute.
3. There is no such thing in the theory of our governments, State and National, as unlimited power in any of their branches. The executive,
the legislative, and the judicial departments are all of limited and defined powers.
4. There are limitations of such powers which arise but of the essential nature of all free governments; implied reservations of individual rights,
without which the social compact could not exist, and which are respected by all governments entitled to the name..
5. Among these is the limitation of the right of taxation, that it can only"
be used in aid of a public object, an object which is within the purpose
for which govei-pments are established.

LOAN ASSOCIATION V.

TOPEKA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
6. It cannot, therefore, be exercised in aid of enterprises strictly private,
for the benefit of individuals, though in a remote or collateral way the
local pullic maybe benefited thereby.
7. Though the line which distinguishes the public use for which taxes may
be assessed from the private use for which they may not, is not always
easy to discern, yet it is the duty of the courts, where the case falls
clearly within the latter class, to interpcse when properly called on for
the protection of the rights of the citizen, and aid to prevent his private property from being unlawfully appropriated to the use of others.
'8. A sfatute which authorizes a town to issue its bonds in aid of the manufacturing enterprise of individuals is void, because the taxes necessary
to pay the bonds would, if collected, be a traosfer of the property of
individuals to aid in the projects of gain and profit of others, and not
for a public use, in the proper sense of that term.
9. And in i suit brought on such bonds or the interest coupons attached
thereon, they are properly declared void.
10. The fact that the town authorities paid one instalment of interest on the
bonds, by means of a levy of taxes, does not alter the case. It, works
no estoppel.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas.
The Citizens' Savings and Loan Association of Cleveland
brought their action in the court below, against the city of
Topeka, on coupons for interest attached to bonds of the
city of Topeka.
The bonds on their face purported to be payable to the
King Wrought-Iron Bridge Maniffacturing and Iron-Works
Company, of Topeka, to aid and encourage that company in
establsing and operating bridge shops in said city of Topeka, under and in pursuance of section twenty-six of an act
of the. legislature of the State of Kansas, 'entitled "An act to
incorporate cities of. the second class," approved February
29th, 1872; and also of another !' Act to authorize cities and
counties to issue bonds for the purpose of building bridges,
aiding railroads, water-power, .or other works of internal
imrovement," approv'ed March 2d, 1872.
The- city. issued one h'undred of these bonds for $1000
each, 'as a'donation (and so it was stated in the declaration),
to encourage that company in its design of establishing a
manufactory'tf 'iron bridges'in that' city.
The declaration, also alleged that the interest coupons first
due .were paid out of a fund raised by taxation for that purERROR

Oct. 1874.1

LOAN AssOCIATION

V.

ToPEKA.

Statement of the case.

pose, and that after this payment the plaintiff became the
purchaser of the bonds and the coupons on which'suit was
brought, for value.
A demurrer was interposed by the city of Topeka to' this
declaration.
The section of the act of February 29th, on which the
main reliance was placed for the authority to issue these
bonds, reads as follows:
"SECTION 76. The council shall have power to encourage the
.establishment of manufactories and such other enterprises as
may tend to develop and improve such city, either by direct
appropriation from the general fund or by the issuunce of bonds
of such city in such amounts Ls the council may deteriiine;
Provided, That no greater amount'than one thousand' dollars
shall be granted'for any one p'urpose, unless a majority of the
votes cast at an election called for that purpose shall authorize
the same. 'The bonds thus issued shall be made payable at any
time within twenty years, and bear interest not exceeding ten
per cent. per annum."

It was conceded that the steps requited by this act prerequisite as to issuing the bonds were reguglar, as were also
the other details, and that the language of the statute was'
sufficient to justify the action of the city authorities, if the
statute was within the constitutional competency of the legislature.
The single question, therefore, for consideration' raised by
the demurrer was the authority of the legislature 6f the State
of Kansas'to enact this part of the statute.
The court below denied the authority, placing the denial
on two grounds:
1st. That this part of the statute violated the fifth section
of Article XII of the constitution of the State of Kansas; a
section in these words:
"SECTION 5. Provision 'shall be made by general law for the
organization of cities, towns, 'and villages; and their power'of
taxation, assessment, borrowing money, contracting debts, and
VOL. XX.

LOAN AsSOCIATION V.

TOPEKA.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

loaning their credit, shall be so restricted as to prevent the
abuse of such power."'
[The argument here was that the section of the act of Febr uary 29th, 1872, conferring the power to issue bonds contained no restriction as to the ,imount which the city might
issue to aid imanufacturing enterprises, and that the failure
of the legislature to limit and restrict the power so as to
prevent abuse, violated the fifth section of Article XI.I of
the constitution above referred to.]
2d. That the act authorized the towns and other municipalities to which it applied, by issuing bonds or lending its
credit, to take the property of the citizen under the guise of
taxation to pay thege bonds, and use it in aid of the enterprises of others which were not of a public character; that
this was a perversion of the right of taxation, which could
only be dxercised for a public use, to the aid of individual
interests and personal purposes of profit and gain.
The court below accordingly, sustaining the demurrer,
gave judgment in favor of the defendant, the city of Topeka; and to its judgment this writ of error was taken.
Jr. Alfred Ennis, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. Boss,
Burns, and A. L. Williams, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Two grounds are taken in the opinion bf the circuitjudge
and in the argument of counsel for defdndaut, on which it is
insisted that the section of 'the statute of February 29th,
1872, on which the main reliance is placed to issue the
bonds, is unconstitutional.
The first of these is, that by section five of article twelve
of the constitution of that State it is declared that provision shall be made by general law for the organization of
cit*.s, towns, and villages; and their power of taxation, assessraent, borrowing money, contracting de ts, and loaning
their credit, shall be so restricted as to prevent the abuse of
such power.
The argument is that the statute in question is void be-

Oct. 1874.]

LOAN ASSOCIATION v. TOPEKA.
Opinion of the curt.

cause it authorizes cities and towns to contract debts, and
does not contain any restricti6n on the power so conferred.
But whether the statute which confers power to contract
debts should always contain some limitation or restriction,
or whether a general restriction applicable to 'all cases should
be passed, and whether in the absence of both the grant of
power to contract is wholly void, are questions whose solution we prefer to remit to the State courts, ats in this case
we find ample reason to sustain tledemirrei' on'the.second
ground on which it is argued -by counsel and sustained by
the Circuit Court.
That proposition is that the act authorizes the towns and
other municipalities to which it applies, by issuing bonds or
loaning their credit, to take the property of the citizen under
the guise of taxation to pay these bonds, and use it in 'aid of
the enterprises of others which are .not of a public character,
thus perrerting the right of taxation, which can only be exercised for a public use, to the aid of individual interests and
personal purposes of profit and gain.
The proposition as thus broadly stated is not new, nor is
the question which it raises difficult of solution.
If these municipal corporations, which are in fact-subdivisions of the State, and which for many reasons are vested
with quasi legislative powers, have a fund or other property
out 'of which they can pay the debts which they contract,
without resort to taxation, it may be within the power of
the legislature-of the State to authorize them to use it in aid
of projects strictly private or personal, but which would in
a secondary manner contribute to the public good; oi-where
there is property or money vested in a corporation of the
kind for a particular use, as public worship or charity, the
legislature- may pass laws authorizing theii to make contracts in reference to this property, and,incur debts payable
from that source.
But such instances are few and exceptional, and the pi:oposition is a very broad one,-that-debts contracted by minicipal corporations must be paid, if paid at all, out 'of tapes
which' they may lawfully levy, and that all contracts creating

LOAN AssOCIATION V.

TOPEKA.

[Sup. Ct.

.Opinion of the court.

debts to be paid in future, not limited to payment from some
other source, imply an obligation to pay by taxation.
It follows thatin this class of cases the right to contract
must be limited by the right to tax, and if in the given case
no tax can lawfully be levied to pay the debt, the contract
itself is void for want of authority to make it.
If this were not so,'these corporations could make valid
promises, which they have no means of fulfilling, and on
which even the legislature that created them can confer no
such power. The validity of a contract which can only be
fulfilled by a resort to taxation, depends on the power to
levy the tax for that purpose.*
It is, therefore, to be inferred that when the legislature of
the State authorizes a county or city to contract a debt by
bond, it intends to authorize it to levy uch taxes as are
necessary to pay the debt, unless there is in the act itself, or
in some general statute, a limitation upon the power of taxation which repels such an inference.
With these remarks and with the reference to the authorities which support them, we assume that unless the legislature of Kansas had the right to authorize the counties and
towns in that State to levy taxes to be used in aid of manufapturing enterprises, conducted by individuals, or private
corporations, for purposes of gain, the law is void, and the
bonds issued under it are also void. We proceed to the inquiry whether such a power exists in the legislature of the
State of Kansas.
We have already said the question is not new. The subject of the aid voted to railroads by counties and.towns has
been brought to the attention of the courts qf almost every
State in the Union. It has been thoroughly discussed and
is still the subject of discussion in those courts. It is quite
true that a decided preponderance of authority i's to be found
in favor of the proposition that the legislatures of the States,
Sharpless v. Mayor of Philadelphia, 21 Pennsylvania State, 147, 167;
fHanson v. Vernon, 27 Iowa, 28; Allen'v. Inhabitants of Jay, 60 Maine, 127;

Lowell v. Boston, Massachusetts (MS.)-; Whiting v. Fond aIu Lac, 25 Wisconsin, 188.

Oct. 1874.]

LOAN ASSOCIATION

v. TopEK,..

661

Opinion of the court.

unless restricted by some special provisions of their constitutions, may confer upon these municipal bodies the right
to take stock in corporations created to build railroads, and
to lend their credit to such corporations. Also to levy the
necessary taxes on the inhabitants,,and on property within
their limits subject to general taxation, to enable them to
pay the debts thus incurred. But very few of these courts
have decided this without a division among the judges of
which they were composed, while others have decided agaiust
-the existence of the power altogether.*.
In all these cages, however, the decision has turned upmu
the question whether the taxation by which this aid was
afforded to the building of railroads was for a pfiblic -purpose. Those who came to-the conclusion that it was, held
the laws for that purpose valid.

Those who could not'reach

that conclusion held them void. In all thd controversy this
has been the turning-point of the judgments of the courts.
And it is safe to say that no court has held debts created.in
aid of railroad .companies, by counties or towns, valid on
any other ground than that the purpose for which the taxes
were levied was. a public use, a puirpose or object wliich it
was the right and the duty of State governments to assist
by money raised from the people by taxation. . The argument in opposition to this power has been, that railroads
built by corporations organized mainly for purposes of gain
-the roads which .they -built being under'their control, and
not that of the State-were pr'ivate and not public roads,
and-the tax assessed on the people went to swell the profits
of individuals and not to the good of the State, or tlhe benefit of the public, except in a remote and collateral way. On
the -other hand it was said that roads, canals, bridges, n:Avigable streams, and all other highways had in all times been
matter of public concern. That such channels of travel and
of the carrying business had always been established, improved, regulated by the State, and that the railroad had
* The State'v. Wapello Co., 9 Iowa, 308; Hanson v. Vernon, 27 Id. 28;
Sharpless v. Mlayor, &c., 21 Pennsylvania State, 147; Whitingv. Fond du
Lac, 25 Wisconsin, 188.

LOAN ASSOCIATION V. TOPEKA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not lost this character because constructed by individual euterprise, aggregated into a corporation.
We are not prepared to say that the latter view of it is
not the true one, especially as there are other characteristics
of a public nature conferred on these corporations, such as
the power to obtain right.of way, their subjection to the laws
which govern common carriers, and the like, which seem to
justify the proposition.. Of the disastrous consequences
which have followed its. recognition by the courts and which
were predicted when it was first established there can be no
doubt.
We have referred to this history of the contest over aid
to railroads by taxation, to show that the strongest advocates
for the validity of these laws never placed it on the ground
of the unlimited power in the State legislature to tax the
people, but conceded that where the purpose for wh'ich the.
tax was to be issued could no longer be justly claimed-to
have this public.character, but was purely in aid of private
or personal objects, the law authorizing it was beyond the
legislative power, and was an unauthorized invasion of private right.*
It must be coneded that there are such rights in every
free government beyond the control of the State. A government which recognized no suich rights, which held the
lives, the liberty, and the property of its citizenis subject'at
all times to the absolute disposition and unlimited control of
even the most democratic depository of power, is after all
but adespbftism. It is true it is a despotism of the many',
of the majority, if you choose to call it so, but it is none the
less~a despotism. It may well be doubted .ifa man is to
hold all that he is accustomed to call his own, all in which
he has placed his happiness, and the security of which isessential to that happiness, under the unlimited dominion
of others, whether it is not wiser that this power should be
exercised by one mian than by many.
* Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wallace, 689; People v. Salem, 20 Michigan,

452; Jenkins v. Andover, 103 Massachusetts, 94; Dillon on Municipal Corporations, J 587; 2 Redfield's Laws of Railways, 398, rule 2.

Oct. 1874.]

LOAN AssOCIATION V. TOPEKA.
Opinion of the court.

The theory of our governments, State and National, is
opposed to the deposit of unlimited power anywhere. The
executive, the legislative, and the judicial branches of these
governments are all of limited and defined powers.
There are limitations on such power which grow out of
the essential nature of all free governnients. Implied reservations of individual rights, without which the social compact could not exist, and which are respected by all governments entitled to the name. No court, for instance, would
hesitate to declare void a stittute which enacted that A. and
B. who were husband and wife to each other should be so
no longer, but that A. should thereafter be the husbanti of
0., and B. the wife of D. Or which should enact thaf the
homestead now owned by A. should no longer be his, but
should henceforth be the property of B.*
Of all the powers conferred upon government that of taxation is most liable to abuse. Given a purpose or object for
which taxation may be lawfully used and the extent of its
exercise is in its ;very nature unlimited. It is true that express limitation on the amount of tax. to be levied or the
things to be taxed may be imposed by constitution or statute, but in most instances for which taxes are levied, as the
support of government, the pr6secution of war, the National defence, any limitation is unsafe. The entire resources
of the people should in some instances be at the disposal of
the government.
The power to tax is, therefore, the strongest, the most
pervading of all the powers of governtnent, reaching directly or indirectly to all classes of the people. It was said
by Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of McCulloch v. The
State of Marylandt that the power to tax is the power to, destroy. A striking instance of the truth of the proposition
is seen in the fact that the existing tax of tell per cent. imposed by the United States on the circulation of all other
banks than the National banks, drove out of existence every
Whiting v. Fond du Lac, 25 Wisconsin, 188; Cooley on Constitutional
Limitations, 129, 175, 487; Dillon on Municipal Corporations, ?.587.
j- 4 Wheaton 431.

LOAN ASSOCIATION

;.

TOPEKA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

State bank of circulation within a year or two after its passage. This power-can as readily be employed against one"
class of individuals and in favor of another, so as to ruin the
one class and give unlimited wealth and prosperity to the
other, if there is no implied limitation of the uses for which
the power may be exercised.
To lay with one hand the power of the government on
the propertSof the citizen, and, with the otber to bestow it
upon favored individuals to aid private enterprises and build
up private fortunes, is none the less a robbery because it is
done under the forms of law and is called taxation. This is
not legislation. -It is a decree under legislative forms.
Nor is it taxation. A "tax," says Webster's Dictionary,
"is a rate oi' sum of money assessed on the "person or property of a citizeti by government for the use of the nation
or state:" " Taxes are burdens or charges imposed by tle
legislature upon persons or property to raise money for
public purposes."*
Coulter, J., in Northern Liberties v. St. John's Churcht says,
very forcibly, "I think the common mind has everywhere
taken in the understanding that taxes are a public imposition, levied by authority of the government for the purpose of carrying on the government in all its machinery aid
operations-that they are imposed for a public purpose."
We have established, we think, be~end cavil that there
can be no lawful tax whiich is not laid for a public purpose.
It may not be easy to draw the line in all cases so as to decide what is a public purpose in this se'ise and what is not.
. It'is undoubtedly the duty of the legislature which imposes or authorizes municipalities to impose 4 tax to see.that
it is not to be used for purposes of private interest instead
of a public use, and tlfe courts can only be justified in interposing when a violation of this principle is clear and the'
Cooley on Constiiutional Limitations, 479.
t 13 Pennsylvania State, 104; see also Pray v. Northern Libert}ies, 3 1 Id. 69;
:Mttoi of Mayor of New York, 11 Johnson, 77; Camden v. Allen, 2 Dutcher,
898; Sharpless v.Mayor of Philadelphia, supra; Hanson v. Vernon, 27 Iowa,
47; Whiting v. Fond du Lac, 26 Wisconsin, 188.

Oct. 1874.]

LOAN ASSOCIATION V. TOPEKA.

665

Opinion of the court.

reason f6r interference cogent. And in deciding whether,
in the given case, the object for which the taxes are assessed
falls upon the one side or the other of this Tine, they must
be governed mainly by the ourse and usage of the government, the objects'for which taxes have .been customarily and
by long course of legilation levied, what objects or pur-7
poses have been considered necessary to the support and for
the proper use of the government, whether Stat or municisanctidned
pal. Whatever lawfully pertains to this and is.
by time and the acquiescence of the people may well beheld
to belong to the public use, and pi'oper for the maintenance
of good government, though this may not be the only .riterion of rightful taxatioii.
But inthe case before-u s, in which the towns are authorized to contribute aid by way of taxation to any class of
-manufacturers, there is no difficulty in holding that this is
not such a public purpose as we have been considering. If
it be said that a benefit results to the local public of a town
by establishing m anufactures, the same ma. be said of any
other business or pursuit which employs capital" or labor.
The merchant, the meclanic, the innkeeper, the banker,
the builder, the steamboat owner are equally promdters of
the public good, and equally deserving the aid of the citizens by forced contributions. No line can be drawn in'favoi'
of the manufacturer which would. not open the coffers of the public treasury to the importunities of two-thirds .of
the business men of the city or town.
A reference to one or two cases adjudicated by courts of
the highest character will be sufficient, if any authority were
needed, to sustain us ih this propositioi. In the case of Allen v. . The Inhabitants of Tay,* the town,
meeting had voted t6 loan their credit to the amount df
$10,000, to Hutchins and Lane, if they would invest $12,000
in a steam saw-mill) grist-mill, and box-factory. machinery,
to be built in that town by them.' There was a provision
to segure the town by mortgage on' the mill- and the select60 Maine, 124.

LOAN ASSOCIATION

V.

TOPEKA.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

men were authorized to issue town bonds for the amount of
the aid so voted. Ten of the taxable inhabitants of the
town filed a bill to enjoin the selectmen from issuing the
bonds.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Maine, in an able opinion
by Chief Justice Appleton, held that this was not a public
purpose, and that the town could levy no taxes on the inhabitants in aid of the enterprise, and could, therefore, issue
nio bonds, though a special act of the legislature had ratified
the vote of the town, and they granted the injunction as
prayed for.
Shortly after the disastrous fire in Boston, in 1872, which
laid an important part of that city in ashes, the governor of
the State convened the legislative body of Massachusetts,
called the General Court, for the express purpose of aflbrdin-g some relief to the city and its people front the stifl'lrings
consequent on this great calamity. A statute was passed,
tnong others, which authorized the city to issue its bonds
to an amount not exceeding twenty millions of dollars,
which bonds were to be loaned, under proper guards for
securing the city fr-om loss, to the owners of the ground
whiose buildings had been destroyed by fire, to aid them in
rebuilding.
Iii the case of Lowell v. The City of Boston, in the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, the validity of this act was
considered. We have been furnished a copy of tie opinion,
though it is not yet reported in the regular series of that
court. The Armericani Law Review for July, 1873, says that
the question was elaborately and ably argued. The court,
in an able and exhaustive opinion, decided that the law was
unconstitutional, as giving a right to tax for other than a
public purpose.
The same court had previously decided, in the case of
Jenkins v. Anderson,*that a statute authorizing the town authorities to aid by taxation a, school established by the will
of a citizen, and governed by trustees selected by the will,
* 103 Massachusetts, 74.

Oct. 1874.]

LOAN ASSOCIATION

v. TOPEKA.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

was void because the school was not under the control of
the town' officei's, an}l was not, therefore, a public purpose
for which taxes could be levied on the inhabitants.
The same principle precisely was decided by the State
court of Wisconsin in the case of Curis v. Whipple.* In that
case a special statute which authorized the town to aid the
Jefferson Liberal Institute was declared void because, though
a school of learning, it was a private enterpris, not under
the control of the town authorities. In the subsequent case
of Whiling v. Fond du Lac, already cited, the principle is
fully considered and reaffirmed.
. These cases are clearly in point, and they assert a principle which meets our cordial approval.
We do not attach any importance to the fact that the.town
authorities paid one instalment of interest on these bonds.
Such a payment works no estoppel. If the legislature was
without power to authorize the issue of these bonds, and
its stdtute attempting to confer such authority is void, the
mere payment of interest, which was equally unauthorized,
cannot create of itself a power to levy taxes, resting on no
other foundationthan the fact that they have once been illegally levied for that purpose.
The act of March 2d, 1872, concerning internal improvements, can give no assistance to these bonds. If -we could
hold that the corporation for manufacturiug wrought-iron
bridges was, within the meaning of the statute, whic: seems
very difficult to do, it would still be liable to the objection
that money raised to assist the company was not for a public
purpose, as we have already demonstrated.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting:
Unable to concur either iii the opinion or judgment in
this case, I will proceed to state, in very brief terms, the
reasons which compel me to withhold my concurrence.
-* 24 Wisconsin, 850.

LOAN ASSOCIATION V. TOPEKA.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Corporations of a municipal character are created by the
legislature, and the legi'slature, as-the trustee or guardian of
the public interest, has the exclusive and unrestrained control over such a franchise, and may enlarge, diminish, alter,
change, or abolish the same at pleasure. Where the grantees of a franchise, as well as the grantors, are.public bodies
and the franchise is created solely for municipal objects, the
grant is at all times within the control of the legislature, and
consequently the charter is subject to amendment or repeal
at the will of the granting power.*
Errors of indiscretion which the legislature may commit
in the exercise of the power it possesses cannot be corrected
by the courts, for the reason that the courts cannot adjudge
an act of the legislature void unless it is in violation of the
Federal or State constitution.t
State constitutions may undoubtedly restrict the power
of the legislature to. pass laws, and it is plain that any law
.passed in violation of such a prohibition is void, but the
better opinion is that where the constitution of the State
contains no prohibition upon the subject, express or implied,
neither the State noP Federal courts can declare a statute of
the State void as unwise, unjust, or inexpedient, nor for any
other cause, unless it be repugnant to the Federal Constitu-,
tioi. Except where the Constitution has imposed limits
upon the legislative power the rule of law appears to be that
the power of legislation must be considered as practically
absolute, whether the law opeiates according to natural justice or not in'any particular case, for the reason that courts
are not the guardians of the rights of the. people of the State,
save where those rights are secured by some constitutional
provision which comes within judicial cognizance; or, in
the language of Marshall, C. J., "The interest, wisdom, and
justice of the representative body furnish the only security
* Hartford v. Bridge Co., 10 Howard, 534; Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24 Id.
294; Darlington v. Mayor, 31 New York, 187; Granby v. Thurston, 23 Connecticut, 416; 2 Kent (12th ed.), 275.
t Benson v.Mayor, 24 Barbour, 248; Clarke v. Rochester, lb. 446; Bank
v. Rom, 18 New York, 38.

Oct. 1874.]

LOAN ASSOCIATION V. TOPEKA.

669

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

in a large class of cases not regulated by any constitutional
provision."*
Courts cannot nullify ani act of the State legislature on the
vague ground that they think it opposed to a general latent
spirit supposed to pervade or underlie the conistitution, where
neither the terms nor the implications of the instrument disclose any such restriction.t Such a power iยง denied to the
courts, because to concede it would be to make the courts
sovereign over both the'constitution and the people, and
conVert the govertiment into a judicial despotisn.1
Subject to the Federal Constitution the legislature of the
State possesses the whole legislative power of the people, except so far'as the power is limited by the State constitution.ยง
Our own decisions are to the same effect, as appears by
one of very recent date, in which the court say'that "the
legislative power of a, State extends to everything within the
sphere of such power, except as 'it is restricted by the Federal Constitution or that of the State2"'1
Apply those principles to the' cas6s before the court and
it follovs, as it seems to me, .that the judgment in each case
should be reversed for the, following reasons: (1.) Because
the demurrer to the declaration in each case should b~ve
been overruled. (2.) Because the bonds to which the coupons sued on were attached were is!ued in pursuance-of the
express authority of the legislature vesting that power in
the corporation defendants. (3.) Becocuse the constitution
of the State does not in anty manner prohibit the passage of
such a law as that under which the bonds were issued. (4.)
Because it is not competent for a Federal court to adjudge
,a State statute void which does not conflict in any respect
with the Constitution of.the United States or that of the
State whose legislature enacted the statute.
* Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 563; Cooley on Constitutional Limitations
(2d ed.), 168; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 398.
t Walker v. Cincinnati, 21 Ohio State, 41.
+ Golden v. Prince, 3 Washington's Circuit Court, 313.
Bank v. Brown, 26 New York, 467; People v. Draper, 15 Id., 532.
Pine Grove'v. Talcott, 19 Wallace, 676.

IBASEY

v.

GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

Unwise laws and such as are highly inexpedient and unjust are frequently passed by legislative bodies, but there is
no power vested in a Circuit Court bor in this court, to determine that any law passed by a State legislature is void if
it is not repugnant to their own'constitution nor the Constitution of the United States.
Vague apprehensio'ns seem to be entertained that unless
such a power is claimed and exercised inequitable consequences may result from unnecessary taxation, but in my
judgment there is much more to be dreaded from judicial
decisions which may have the eftect to sanction the fraudulent repudiation of honest debts, than from any statutes
passed by the Stfae to enable municipal corporations to
meet and discharge their just pecuniary obligations.

BASEY ET AL. V. GALLAGHER.
1. Where in an equity case a demurrer is filed to the complaint and the
record does not disclose what disposition was mad'e of it, and an answer
is subsequently filed, upon which the parties proceed to a hearing, it
will be presumed on appeal that the demurrer was abandoned.
2. Although by the organic act of the Territory of MIfontana common-law
and chancery jursdiction is exercised by the same court, and by legislation of the Territory the distinctions between the pleadings and modes
of procedure in comimon-law actions and those in equity suits are abolished, the essential distinction between law and equity is not changed.
The relief which the law affords must be administered through the intervention of a jury, unless a jury be waived; the relief which equity
affords must be applied by the court itself, and all information presented
to guide its action, whether obtained through masters' reports or findings of a jury, is merely advisory.
3. The provision in the statute of Montana of 1867 regulating proceedings
in civil cases declaring "1that an issue of fact shall be tried by a jury,
unless a jury trial is waived," does not require the court in an equity
case to regard the findings of a jury called in the case as conclusive,
though no application to vacate the findings bd made by the parties, if
in its judgment they are not supported by the evidence.
4. In the Pacific States and Territories a right to running waters on the
public lands of the United States for purposes of irrigation may be

