POLLARD v. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

tenant Dunn was not binding upon the United States, there
being no delivery or acceptance of the hay; but, on the
other hand, the receipt of it having been accompanied by a
statement by Dunn that he was not authorized to make the
purchase, and the receipt being given as an accommodation
to the owner in order that the district commander might
know that he, Dunn, was cognizant of the fact that the owner
had five hundred and thirty-six tons of hay cut and ricked
in the vicinity of Fort Fillmore.
If judgment was, to be given for the owner at all it should
have been at the rate of $38.50 per ton, and no more. It
was improper for the court to rate it as worth $45 per ton.
Messrs. T. J. Durant and C. W. flornor, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
Upon the facts found, we think the judgment should have
been for the value of the hay in. November, 1864, to wit:
$38.50 per ton, instead of $45, its value during the winter.
To this extent the Court of Claims erred. The judgment is
therefore -REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with instructions to enter a new judgment
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION-

POLLARD v.

BAILEY.

Where by the charter of a bank, stockholders are 1"bound respectively for

all the debt of the bank in proportion to their stock holden therein,"
one creditor cannot sue a stockholder at law (there being numerous
other creditors) to recover the full amount of his debt, without regard
to those other creditors or to the ability of the other stockholders to respond to their obligations under the charter; and so appropriate to
himself the entire benefit of that stockholder's security and exclude all
other-creditors from it. He should proceed in equity, where the "proportion can be ascertained upon an account taken of debts and stock,
and a o rata distribution of the debts-among the several stockholders."

Oct. 1874.]

POLLARD V. BAILEY.
Statement of the case.

Especially is this so when other parts of the charter indicate plainly
that the exercise of the powers of a court of chancery which could bring
before it all the necessary parties, and adjust all their rights, was, in a
case of insolvency, contemplated.

EnRRon to the District Court for the'Middle District of
Alabama.
By an act passed in 1854, the legislature of Alabama chartered a bank to be called the Oentral Bank of Alabama.
The capital was $900,000, divided into shares of $100 each.
The charter made certain provisions in case of the insolvency of the bank, or of its suspeinsion of payments in specie.
They were thus:
"SECTION 16 (ARTICLE 2). individual stockholders, having
shares in said bank, shall be bound respectively for all the debts

of the bank in proportion to their stock holden therein.
"SECTION 20. If any debt due from said bank for an amount
exceeding $100, shall remain unpaid for more than ten days

after proper demand, the holder of such debt may file a bill in
the.chancery court, of the county . . . in which said bank may
be located, for the settlement of all the debt of the bank, if he
elect so to do, and may, on proof, &c., pray an injunction to restrain the said bank and its officers.from paying out, or in any
way transferring or delivering to any person any money or
assets of said bank, or incurring any obligation or debt until
such order be vacated or modified; and if such chancellor shall
be of opinion that the debt is justly due, and that the bank has
no just defence against the demand, and if it shall appear expedient and necessary, upon the proof presented, in oider to prevent fraud and injustice, he shall grant an order for such injunction, and the said chancellor shall then proceed to inquire
whether the said bank be solvent or not; and if it shall appear
that the said bank is not clearly solvent, then ho may make an
order declaring the same to be insolvent, and requiring its affairs
to be vound up and settled;. and, farther, if, in his opinion, the
safety of the creditors shall require it, such chancellor may appoint a receiver to take charge of all the assets of the bank, and
to close and settle its affairs.
"SoTION 21. In case the said bank be found insolvent, and
settlement of its affairs be orcdered, the same shall be done upon

POLLARD V. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

bill filed in said chancery court, under the orders of the court
and rules of chancery, and full distribution shall be made of the
assets according to the rights of all parties; but the holders of
bank-notes and pbligations issued by the bank for circulation as
money shall be first called in and paid, and shall have priority
over debts due from the bank; and after the assets of the bank
are exhausted, if they be not sufficient to pay all debts and liabilities, a further call shall be made, on the shareholders in the
bank for further payment of capital, over and above the sum of
$100, of an amount equal to the deficiency, which shall be apportioned among all the shares of stock; and an order shall be
made by the court for the payment of each shareholder of the
sum or proportion due on his shares of stock; and each sharebolder shall pay the sum, so assessed to him severally in proportion to his stock, whieh shall be collected by the receiver and
applied.
"SECTION 22. The summary remedy in this act, specially given
for settling up and closing the affairs of said bank, shall apply
to the case of insolVency, but shall not be allowed in case of a
suspension only by the bank-of specie payment, so long as suspension shall be sanctioned by the General Assembly; but
nothing in this act shall be construed so as to deprive a creditor
of said bank from his right to suit in any other appropriatemode of
proceeding, or to prevent the General Assembly from hereafter
regulating, by a general law in relation to banking institutions,
the mode of enforcing and satisfying the rights of creditors of
said bank: Provided, Any billholder shall also have the right to
move in any court having jurisdiction, or before any justice of
the peace in the city or county in which said bank is located, as
the case may require, for the collection of any bill the payment
of -which may be refused."
Of the capital authorized by the charter a certain Pollard
took $20,000, or two hundred shares. In 1865 the bank became insolvent, and in 1869 had ceased to do any business,
having about $700,000 of bills outstanding and unpaid. In
1872, one Bailey, who had $17,000 of these bills, sued 'Pollard, at law, as the owner of two hundred shares of stock,
assuming that he could thus sue him under the above-quoted
section sixteen (article two) of the charter of the bank, which
prescribes, as the reader will remember, "that the stock-

Oct. 1874.]

POLLARD V. BAILEY.
Argument for the creditor.

holders shall be respectively bound for all of the debts of
the bank in proportion to their stock holden therein." The
declaration contained avei'ments that the bank had ceased
to do business since 1868, and that no demand had been
made of the bank for'the payment of the bills, and that a
demand had been made of the defendant, who was a stockholder of the bank during the period the plaintiff had been
the owner. But there was no reference to the other creditors or the ability of th'e other stockholders to pay any proportion of the claim.
The defendant demurred to the declaration, but the court
overruled the demurrer and gave judgment for the plaintiff.
From that judgment the defendant brought the case here.
Mr. . A. Elmore, in support of the ruling below:
1. The declaration was properly held to be sufficient. The
bank having ceased to act and being without funds and indebted, was in law deemed to be dissolved, so far as to give
the remedy afforded against the' shareholders to the creditors
of the corporation.
This dissolution, or insolvency, being proved, the liability
of the stockholders, as declared by its cbarter, became absoblte, and there was no valid objection to its enforcement at
law. Various cases in New York* settle this.
The election to go into equity must be at the election of
the creditors, and the difficulty of the stockholder in protecting himself beyond the statute liability has never been
suggested as a ground for proceeding in equity.t
The liability is made by the charter several and direct,
and not collateral. The measure of damages is different in
each case, depending on the number of shares held.; each
stockholder is responsible to the amount of stock held by
him.1
* Bank of Poughkeepsie v. Ibbotson, 24 Wendell, 473 ;,Simonson v. Spencer, 15 Id. 548; Van Hook v. Whitlock, 3 Paige, 409; Garrison v. Howe,
17 New York, 458.
t 'Bank of Poughkeepsie v. Ibbotson, 24 Wende, 473.
$ Bullard v. Bell, "1Mason, 243.

POLLARD V. BAILEY

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Whenever a statute imposes a legal obligation upon one
party to pay money to another, the person to whom the payment is to be made may maintain an action of debt, or
assumpsit, for the money.*
2. Though the charter of the bank in this case gives
the creditor a particular remedy, it at the same time, by
its twenty-second section, expressly provides that nothing
therein contained shall be construed so as to deprive a creditor of the right to sue in any other appropriate mode of
proceeding. And the concluding part of the section givee
a billholder a right to move in any court for the collection
of any bill. We direct attention particularly to these clauses.
Mr. J. A. Campbell (a brief of Mr. G. W. Goldthwaite being
filed), contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The right of Bailey to maintain his action against Pollard
depends upon the construction to be given to the charter of
the bank. Pollard does not deny his liability to the creditors, but insists that it cannot be enforced in this manner.
He is one of the stockholders of the bank and Bailey one
of its creditors. Stockholders aie, by article two, section
sixteen of the charter, "bound respectively for all the debts
of the bank in proportion to their stock holden therein."
The action below was at law, by one creditor against one
stockholder, to recover the full amount of his debt without
regard to the other creditors or the ability of the other stockholders to respond to their obligations under the charter.
The stock of Pollard, at its par value, exceeds in amount
the debt owing to Bailey, but it is admitted that the other
indebtedness of the bank is very large, and nearly, if not
quite, equal to the entire capital.
Each stockholder is bound for the debts in proportion to
his stock. His liability is not limited to the par value of
his stock, neither is he bound absolutely for the payment of
* Bullard v. Bell, 1 Mason, 243.

Oct. 1874.]

POLLARD V. BAILEY.
Opinion of the court.

the full amount of that. He must pay a sum which shall
bear the same proportion to the whole indebtedness that his
stock bears to the whole capital, and is not required to pay
more. For the purposes of this case it is not necessary to
decide what effect the insolvency of any of the stockholders
would have upon the liability of such as are solvent. It is
certain that no stockholder is liable for more. than his proportion of the debts. This proportion can only be ascertained upon al account of the debts and stock and a pro rata
distribution of the indebtedness among the several stockholders. The proper action, therefore, to enforce the liability is one in which such an account can be stated and
distribution made. Such an action calls specially for the
exercise of the powers of a court of equity, which can bring
before it all the necessary parties and adjust all their rights.
Every stockholder, when called upon to perform his obligations, has the right to require that the extent thereof shall
then be determined once for all, as well that which he is
under to his associate stockholders as that to the creditors.
Otherwise he might be made -to respond to the creditors
un'der one rule and obtain his relief from the other stockholders under another. The provision, therefore, for a proportionate liability is eqffivalent to-a provision for an appropriate form of equitable action to enforce it. The case is
different from what it would be if the charter had provided
generally that all stockholders should be individually liable
for the payment of the debts. The cases from New York
cited upon the argument, and whic*h are supposed to be in
opposition to the 'viewwe have taken, involved the consideration of such a liability.
But when section sixteen is taken in connection with sections twenty and twenty-one, it is very apparent that it was
the intention of the legislature only to charge the stockholders upon a proper account, and in the manner therein
provided for. The intention of the legislature; when properly ascertained, must govern in the construction of every
statute. For such purpose the whole statute must be examined. Single sentences and single provisions are not to be

POLLARD V. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

selected and construed by themselves, but the whole must
be taken together.
As has been seen, section sixteen created the liability, but
provided no remedy for its enforcement except by implication. Section twenty, however, provides in substance that
if any debt due from the bank, exceeding $100 in amount,
shall remain unpaid for more than ten days after proper demand, the holder may file a bill in the proper chancery
court for the settlement of all the debts of the bank, if he
elects so to do, and may, on certain specified proof, pray an
injunction to restrain the bank and its officers from paying
out, or in any manner transferring or delivering to any person, any money or assets of the bank, or incurring any obligations until the order is vacdted or modified. It further
provides that, upon certain findings, the -chancellor shall
proceed to inquire whether the bank is solvent or not; and
if, upon such inquiry, heshall find that it is not clearly solvent, he may make an order declaring the same to be insolvent and require its affairs to be wound up and settled, and,
under certain .circumstances, appoint a receiver for that
purpose. Section twenty-one provides that if the bank be
found insolvent, and settlement of its affhirs ordered, the
same shall be done upon bill filed in said chancery court
under the orders of the court and the rules in chancery, and
that full distribution shall be made of the assets according
to the rights of all parties, billholders having priority over
other debts due from the batik. After the assets were exhausted, if they were not sufficient to pay all debts and
liabilities, a further call was directed upon the shareholders
for further payment of capital to an amount equal to the
deficiency, which was to be apportioned among all the
shares of stock, and an order made for the payment by each
shareholder of the sum or proportion of his shares. This
apportioned call the receiver was required to collect and
apply.
The individual liability of stockholders in a- corporation
for the payment of its debts is always a creature of statute.
At common law it does not exist. The statute which cre-

Oct. -1874.]

POLLARD V. BAILEY.
Opinion of the court.

ates it may also declare the purposes of its creation, and
provide for the manner of its enforcement.
After an examination of the several sections of this cnarter, it cannot for a moment be doubted that it was not only
the intention to provide for a proportionate liability, but for
a pro rata distribution of the fund arising therefroni among
the different creditors, according to their sevwial priorities.
Every provision is entirely inconsistent with the idea that
one creditor could, by an individual suit, appropriate to
himself the entire benefit of the security, and exclude all
others. A common fund was created for the common benefit, to be collected and distributed by the receiver, who was
made tie.common agent of all. There was no liability except for the deficiency. That was to be apportioned and
collected for the common benefit.
It was'not only to be apportioned and collected, but the
mode of apportionmenit and the manner of collection were
specially provided for. The liability and the remedy were
created by the same statute. This being so the remedy provided is exclusive of all others. A general liability created
by'statute without a remedy may be enforced by an appropriate common-law action. But where the provision for the
liability is coupled with a provision for a special remedy,
that remedy, and that alone, must be employed.
It follows as a necessary consequence from these premises
that the action of Bailey cannot be maintained, and that the
demurrer to his declaration should have been sustained.
But it is claimed that by section twenty-two Bailey, as
a billholder, had the right to move in the proper court for
the collection of any bill the payment of which had been
refused. This clearly refers to an enforcement of the liability of the bank itself and not tO that of,the stockholders.
JUDGMENT

REVERSED,

and the cause remanaed with in-

structions to sustain the demurrer to the declaration aid
give
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

