Oct. 1873.] TIOGA R. R.

V. ]ALOSSBURG

& CORNING R. R. 187

Syllabus.

added. The defendant admitted the receipt of the $7060.18,
stated ii .the assignment, as the consideration for making it,
but gave no evidence tending to prove that the recitals in
the instrument to which the assignment related were true.
Both parties submitted prayers for instructions. Both sets
were refused. Those of the defendant sought to defeat the
action because it had not been brought upon the Written instrument and the assignment. The court instructed the jury
in effect, with full and proper explanations, that if the transaction on the part of the defendant had been a fraud, and
there had been an entire failure of consideration, the plaintiff was entitled to recover.
The defendant excepted to these instructions, and to the
refusal.to give those which he had asked to be given. - The
former were correct in point of law.* The instructions
given -covered the whole case. It was not, therefore, the
duty of the learned judge to give others suggested by either
party. If wrong, the , were inadmissible, and if otherwise,
unriecessary.t We are satisfied with the charge as it appears in the record.

TIOGA 'RAILROAD

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

v.

.BLOSSBURG

AND

CORNING

.UAILROAD.

1. Where, in a judicial proceeding, the matter passed upon is thd right under
the language of a certain contract to take receipts on a railroad, the
judgment concludes the question of.the meaning of the contract on a
suit for subsequent tolls received under the same contract.
2. The highest courts of New York, construing the statutes of limitations of
that State, have decided that a foreign corporation cannot avail itself
of them; and this, notwithstanding such corporation was the lessee of
a railroad in New York, and had property within the State, and a
managing agont residing and keeping an office of the company.
Weaver v. Bentley, 1 Caines, 47; Gillet -. Maynard "5 Johnson, 85;
D'Utricht v. Melchor, 1 Dallas, 428; Wilson v. Jordan, a Stewart & Porter,
92; Eames v. Savage, 14 Massaclhsetts, 425; Lyon v. Annable, 4 Connecticut, 350; Pjklj v.James, 1'Huniph-rey, 325; 1 Swift's Digest, 400.
- Laber '.C-per, 7'r1!&"e 565.:

138 TIOGA R.R.v. BLOSSBURG & CORNING R.R.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. These decisions upon the construction of the statutes are binding upon this
court, whatever it may think of their soundness on general principles.
4. No error can be assigned on a general finding.
ERROR to the: Circuit Court for the Northern District of
New York.
The Tioga. Railroad Company was a corporation duly organized under the laws of Pennsylvania, and was the proprictor of a railroad extendin'g from Blossburg, a town in
that State, a little south of the line between Pennsylvania
and New-York, up-to that said line. The Blossbtirg and
Corning Railroad Company was a corporation organized
under the -laws of the State of New York, and was the proprietor of -a railroad connecting. with the abovementioned
road at the State line and extending thence to Corning in
New York; the two roads forming a complete line of railroad f:om Blo8sburg to Corning. The latter company had
acquired its part of the road by purchase in 1855, succeed.
ing to the rights of a former company called the Corning
and Blossbuirg Railroad Company. By contract mnade in
1851 the Corning or New York end of the line was leased
to the Tioga Railroad Company under certain terms-and
stipulations, amongst i$hich was the following:.

"For the use of the said railroad of the said Corning and
BlossburgRailroG d Company, and the use of their depots, enginehpuses,. machine-shops, grounds, water-stations, &c., the Tioga
RailroadCompany agrees tq pay to the Corning and Blossburg
Railroad C6nipany two-thirds. of the receipts for passengers,
mails, and freights which shall be taken for the said Corning
and Blossburg Railroad, the expenses charged customers for the
loading and unloading coal, lumber, and other freights, and for
the 'varehousing, and such additional charges, by way of discrimination, as-shall be made for short distances for motive power, not to
,be included in the term receipts, as abovementioned."
The parties soon disagreed.as to the meaning of the words
italicized. The lessees asserted that they were entitled to
keep any excess of way-fares and freights for intermediate
places and short distances above the through rates for those
places, and did. qqi acqo.nt for, but retained the same; and

Oct. 1873.] TIoGA R. R. v. BLOSSBURG &

CORNING.R.

R. 139

Statement of the ease.

for this difference, running through many years, the Blossburg and Corning company, on the 6th of May, 1864, sued
the other company iii the court below.
Previously to the bringing of tl is, the present suit, that
is to say, in January, 1855, the Blossburg company had
brought a suit in the Supreme Court of New York against
the Tioga company on the contract in question, in whbh
this question of difference was litigated. The record of that
case, which went to final judgment (see 1st Keyes, 486), was
given in evidence in this one.
The present suit was brought for the same class of receipts which had accrued since the commenc emen*t of the
former action. Besides the defence abovenientioned, the
Tioga company in this case pleaded the statute of limitations
as to all receipts which accrued more than six' years before
the commencement of the suit. The plaintiff replied that
the defendant was a corporation organized under the laws
of Pennsylvania, and not created oir existing under the laws
of the State of New York, and that when the supposed
cause of action accrued in favor of the 'plaintif, the defendant (the Tibga company) was out of the State ofNew York,
and so remained until this action was c6mmenced. The
defendant denied that at or since the commencement of the
action it had been out of the State.
The significance of these pleadings was derived from the
New York statute of limitations. The period limited for
briiiging an action of this kind is six years. But by the
one hundredth section of the Code of Practice it is enacted
as follows:
" If, when the cause of action shall accrue against any person,
he shall be out of the "State,such action may be commenced
within the terms herein respectively limited after the return of
such person into this State; and if' after such cause of action
.shall have accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out
of this State, the time of his absence shall not be. deemed or
taken as any part of the time limited for. the commencement of
such action."
The Blossburg company insisted that as the Tioga com-

140

TIOGA R. R. v. BLOSSBURG & CORNING R. R.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pany was a Pennsylvania corporation, it could have no legal
residence or existence in any other State than Pennsylvania,
and hence that it was not in the State of New York when
the action accrued, and had not been therein at any time
since; and, therefore, could not claim 'the benefit of the
statute of limitations. This the Tioga company disputed;
and its counsel relied on certain sections of the Code of
Practice of New York, which showed that foreign corporations might be sued in New York under certain circumstances, as where they had property in the State, or where
their officers, agents, or directors are found within it, and
were served with process. Thus, by act of 1851 (§ 134 of
the Code), after providing for service of process on a corporation by delivering a copy to the president, secretary, treasurer, director, or managing agent, it is said:'
"Such services can be made in respect to a foreign corporation only where it has property within this State, or'the cause
of action arose therein."
Or, by the act of 1859,
"1Where such service shall be made within this State person-ally upon the president, treasurer, or secretary thereof."
The case, according to"'the New York practice, in cases
Wihich it is anticipated may involve the examination of long
accounts, was referred to and tried by a referee.
Evidence was given which, as the counsel of the defendant asserted, showed-what he alleged was not denied"that during all the tiime of the existence of the contract of
1851, the Tioga 'company had property within the State of
New York, an office at Corning, directors, officers, and
agents, constantly within that State and at all times amenable to the process of its courts, and in fact, in 1855, that
the Blossburg company availed itself of this condition of
things by bringing a suit against the defendant for a portion
of the demand claimed under the contract now in controversy, recovered judgment and collected the same, and'that
in fact this suit was commenced by personal service of a
'summons upon the defenaant's agent at Corning."

Oct. 1873.] TIOGA R. R. v. BLOSSBURG & COR1IrNGR.. R. 141
Argument for the Tioga company.

The referee refused to find as facts what is above stated
in regard to the Tioga company, and found beneratly in
favor of the plaintiff. Judgment being entered'oh the finding the case was now here on error.
Mr. T. H. -Reynolds, for Mhe plaintiff in error (tifter arguing
the case on merits):
I. The sane'matter disposed of in the Court of Appeals of
New York, in 1855, does not comein questi6n here. No
portion of the claim there made is embraced ih this action.
It is true that the claim arises under the same contract, but
that circumstance i not of consequence if this court is not
concluded by its construction in the courts of New York,
which it clearly is not under the decision in Swift v. Tyson,*
and Chicago v. Robbins.t Moreover, it is not eas'y to see that
the saine question was decided in the New York courts. A
reference to the cases will show this.
II. The antiquated rule that a corporation cannot migrate
must now be regarded as a legal fiction rather than a substantial reality. In actual practice, corporations created
by the laws of one State do travel into other States, carry
their property, establish offices, locate agents, transact business, and accumulate money, and they are recognized outside of the territorial limits of their creation as legal beings,
having legal rights.
Itwas at one time questioned in this court, whether a
corporation created by the laws of a State, made the corporate body a citizen of the State creating it, when the corporators actually resided beyond its territorial jurisdiction,

within the meaning of the act of Congress in respect to the
removal of causes from a State to a Federal court for trial.
It is now the settled law of this court, that a corporation is
a citizen of the State creating it, and entitled to-all the rights
and immunities accorded to a citizen by the Constitution and
the law.t
16 Peters, 1.
j- 2 Black, 418-428.
$ Railroad Company v. Letson, :2 Howard, 497; Stevens v. Phoenix Insurance Company, 41 New York, 154.

142

TOGA

R. R. v.

BLOSSBURG

&

CORNING

R. R.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the couirt.

If it be, as it must -be, assumed that a corporation is a
citizen of the State by which it is created, then it must be
accorded the rights of a citizen in all courts and places.
We are aware of certain decisions in. New York not in
accordance with'the'se views. But there is no greater reason
for this court's following the decision of State courts in respect to the limitation of actions, than for its following the
laws and decisions respecting the valid ity of bonds in aid
of railroads or any other local improvements. These, certainly, it has not followed.
It was proved and conceded that during all the time of
the existen~e of the contract of 1851, the defendant had
property'within the State of Ne.w. York, an office at Corning, New York, directors, officers, and agents constantly
within this State, and at all times amenable to the process
of its courts; Iihd in fact in 1855 the plaintiff availed itself
of this condition of things by bringing a suit against the
defendant for a portion of the ,demand claimed under the
contract now in controversy, recovered judgment, and collected the same, and that in fact'this suit was commenced
by personal service of a summons upon the defendant's agent
at Corning. It is, therefore, apparent that the Tioga company has been tt all times subjetto a suit at law, for any
debt-it owed to the Blossburg company or any other party.

Mr. D. Rumsey, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Some attempt .has been made to show that in the suit
brought in January, 1855, in the Supreme Court of New
York by the Blossburg company against the Tioga company,
on the contract now in question, the matter of the difference
for which the present suit is brought was not a question decided. But we have looked at the record and proceedings
therein, which were in evidence in this case, and are satisfied that it was decided. The report of the, case in ist
Keyes; 486, shows that it was the only question before the

Oct.

1878.] "TIOGA R. R. v. BLOSSBURG & OORNING

R, R..

143

Opinion of the court.

Court of Appeals, to which court the case was carried. This
point, then, is resjudicatabetween the parties. It cannot be
litigated again on the same contract.*
We pass, then, to the matter of the statute of limitations.
The counsel fbr the plaintiff in error (the defendant below)
insists "that it was proved and conceded that during all the
time of the existence of the c6ntract of 1851, the defendant
had property within the State of New York, an office at
Corning, New York, directors, officers, and agents, constantly within this State, and at all times ameiiable to the
process of its courts; and, in fact, in. 1855, the plaintiff
availed itself of this condition of 'things by bringing a suit
against the defendant for a portion of the demand claimed
under the contract now in controversy, recovered judgment
and collected the same, and that in fact this suit was commenced by personal service of a summons upon the defendant's agent at Corning; and that it is, therefore, apparent
that the Tioga company has been, at all times, subject to a
suit at law for any debt it owed to the Blossburg company
or any other party," and he argues that the statute of limitations is tlierefore a defence.
If the facts appeared as stated'by the counsel, it could not
avail the plaintiff in error. The courts of New York have
decided (and two of the decisions were made upon the case
of this very company), that a foreign corporation cannqt
avail itself of the statute of limitations of that State.t And
this, notwithstanding the defendant was the lessee of a railroad in New York, and had property within the State, and
a managing agent residing and keeping an office of the company at Elmira, within the State.$ These dgcisions upon
the construction of the statute are binding,'upon us, whatever we may think of their soundness on geireral principles.§
Beloit v, Morgan, 7 Wallace, 62 2 j 'A, ora City v. West, Ib. 94'; Freeman'on Judgmefits', - 56.
"tThompsori v. Tioga Railroad Co., 36 Barjotir, 79 [-Olcott v. - ame Deicndalt, 20 New York, 210.
1Il, thbuh n.The Northern Central Railwa Co., b I . 656..
3 ZH.rpenaing v. 'Ddtch Churah, 16 Peters" 493.

144

TIoGA R.R.v. BLOSSBIRG & CORNING R.R. [Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of Hunt and Field, JJ., concurring.

But the facts on which the plaintiff in error relies aOe not
spread upon the record in such a manner that the court can
take cognizance of them. They are not found specially by
the referee; he refuses to find them. He finds generally in
favor of the plaintiff, namely, that the statute of limitations
was not a bar to the action. No error can be assigned upon
such.a finding.
JUDGMENT IS AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice IUNT, concurring in the judgment.
The question whether, upon the merits, the plaintiff is entitled to r~cover is no longer an open question. It wassetfled by the adjudication of thq point by the highest courts
of New York in an action betweei the same parties and
upon precisely the same facts. The record in the former
suit was giveri in ev'idence in this suit, and is conclusive.*
The point with which we are principally concerned at
this time arises upon the statute of limitations. This action
was commenced on the 6th day of May, 1864, and it was
insisted that all.that part of the claim which became due on
or before May 6th,.1858, was barred by the statute of limitations of the State ortNew York. The court below held
against thfs claim, but it is repeated and renewed on this
appeal.
The Civil Code of New York repeala the former laws on
the subject of the limitation of actions and enacts as follows:
"SECTION 74. Civil actions can only be commenced within
the periods prescribed in this. title, after the cause of action
shall have accrued, except where, in special cases, a different
limitation is prescribed by statute.
"SECTION 82. The periods prescribed in section seventyfour for the commencement of actions, other than for the
recovery of real propeifty, shall be as follows:
"SECTION 91. Within six years: 1. An action upon a conI

.Thompson v.Roberts, 24 Howard, 288; Demarest v. Darg, 82 New York,
281; Doty v. Brown, 4 Comstock, 71; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 581, and
note 2, p. 700.

Oct. 1873.] TIOGA R. R. V.-BLOSSBUR4 & COIRiNq'G R. R. 145
Opinion of Hunt and Field, JJ., concurring.

tract, obligation, or liability, express or implied (excepting.
judgments and sealed instruments).
"SEcTION 100. If, when the cause of action shall accrue
against aniy person; he shall be out 6f the State, such action
may be commenced within the terms, herein respectively
limited after the return of such person into this State; and
if, after such cause of action shall have accrued, such person
shall depart from and reside out of this State, the time of
his absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the
time limited for the commencement of such action."
An examiation of the statutes of the different States shows
a great simi*larity in their provisions. They generally provide that if a person shah be out of the State when the cause
of-aclion accrues against him the statute does not begin to
run until he returns into the State; if, after the cause'of action has accrued, such person shall 'depart from and reside
out of the State, the time of his absence shall not be taken
to be a part of the time limited for the commencement of
the action. As to a resident of the State where'the action
is brought, his temporary absences after the cause of action
shall have accrued do not suspend the running of the statute.
As to a 'non-resident debtor, however long his absence may
be continued, he takes no benefit from the statute. Tempo:
rary returns do not put the statute in .motion. So long as
he continues to reside in another State, so long he is liable'
to an action in the State in which he is'sued. These provisions are found in substance in the statutes of Maine, Massachusetts, New :Jersey, Vermont New'Hampshire, Michigan, Wisconsin, Arkansas, Oregon, and Iowa.
The State of New York is not singular, therefore, inproviding or in holding that although a debtor rmay have beenfrom time to time within the State, yet while he is a resident
of another State, and until he becomes a resident of Now
York, he cannot ask the protection of the statute of limitation.
It was proved and conceded that during all. the time -of
the existence of 'the contract in question the defendant had
property within -the State of NeN York, An office at Oorniug,
VOL. XX.
10

146

TIOGA 1. R. v. BLOSSBURG & CORNING R.R.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion" of Hunt and Field, JJ., concurring.

New York, directors, officers, and agents within the State;
that it was at all times amenable to the process of its courts;
and that in 1855 the plaintiff availed itself of this, condition
of things to bring a suit against the defendant for a portion
of the demand claimed under the contract now in controversy, and that the present suit was commenced by the service of a summons upon the defendant's agent at Corning,
New York.
In 1848 the code of New York authorized the commencement of a suit by the delivery of a copy of the summons to
the defendant, and if the suit was against a corporation, to
the president or .other bead of the corporation, secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof.
In 1851 this section was amended by adding thereto the
words " but such service can be made in respect to a foreign
corporation only when it has property within this State, or
the cause of action arose therein."
In 1859 this subdivision was further amended by adding,
at the end, the words "or where such service shall be made
within the State, personally upon the president, treasurer.
or secretary thereof:"
It would appear from this analysis that the legislature intended to authorize the commencement of a suit against a
corporation by the delivery of a summons to its president or
other officer, without regard to the facts: 1st, whether it was
a .doniestic or a foreign corporation, or 2d, whether it had
property within the State; or .3d, whether the cause of action
arose within the State; or 4th, whether such service was
made within this State or without the State. It amended
the proceeding, first by limiting tlis mode of commencing
a suit against a foreign corporation to a case where it had
property within this State or where the cause of action arose
therein; and second, by requiring such service to be made
within this State.
In commenting upon thse provisions, the counsel for the
pihintiff in err-or says: "It is .then apparent that ever since
1848, ithas been in the power of any creditor of the Tioga
company to sue it in the courts of New York, and recover a

•Oct. 1873.] TIoGA R. R.

V.

BLOSSBUAG & CoI'iN R, R. 147

Opinion of Hunt and

Field, JJ., concurring.

judgment against it as effectual and cohclusixe as any that
could be. obtained against any citizen. or domestie corportion, for it has had during a4 that time property within the.
State and officers upon whom process ;ould have'been perv
sonally served; and in this case, the cafse of action, if any,
arose within the State of New York."
Thaf a judgment could be obtained during that period' is.
apparent,, but" that an effectual and conclusive jiidgheiftcould be obtaiied !by the service of a New York simmon's
upon pil officer of a Pen nsylvail.ia. corporatio-n in that State,
as was authorized by the code until the year 1859,s noto',
apparent. The process of the New York courts does not'
and cannot run beyond the te-rritorial limits df'-that State
A service of such process within the State of Pennsylvania
wbuld be void.* The broad language umed in these statutesjustifies. the constructi6n given it by th e New York'courts,.
that they wre intended to provide-for ajudgment -not complete and effectual but limited and- restricted lJke that qbtained upon publication' or by attachhient proceeding§, The
statutes give. no evidence that a more perfect ju dgmietit was
expected 'to' be obtained where these-evice'of the summons
was made upoi the officer within this tate.. tht.n 'lwen it
Was made. without it. A- suit ivas .aufliorized to be com-=
menced against a foreign.'corporation by anyof these various
m'odes,'or by.attachnment and publi.(ation. In t he ldttercase
"nopre*tence is made that the jilogpent iseffectual
and coiicfisive' dnd the fact that the cause bf action erose.'ithin
this State or that the corporation had 'Property within the
State, can give but.. little addition 'to its Icdnclusiie-ness.
Such is the doctrine .announced not onl, in Rathbun v.
Northern Central Bailroad'Go.,, but in many.previous cases.,
In the 4th,J in the: 6th,§ and in the. 10thil of Howards
Practice Cases, it i§ held that it'judgment obtained in.
a suit
• Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason, 40; Story's Conflict of Laws,
j 50 New York, 656.
Hulbut v. Hope Mutual Insurance Co., p.,24.'
.Brewster v. Michigan Central Railrqad, p. 183.
Bank of Commerce v: Rutland'Railroad Co., p. 1.

.589.

148

TI1GA R. R. v. BLOSSBURG& CORNING R. R. [S11p. Ct.
Opinion of Hunt and Field, JJ , concurring.

commenced by the service of a summons upon an officer of
a foreign corporation while in this State is not a persoml
judgment, that it can only be eiifbrced against property in
this State.
In Raibbun v. Northern Central Railroad Co.,* in delivering
the unanimous opinion o" the court, Folger, J., after citing
the statutes upon the subject and, discus'sing the deeisions of
the State heretofore ma(le, bases the decision that the statute
did not limit the action against the def'endant in that suit
upon the principle that thejudgnct to be obtained by service upon the .officer of a foreign corporation would not be
a full and perect il gmPnt twevalent against it ill a Stite
other than Neiv York. The case as reported in the series
does not contain the opinion, but a copy certified by the reporter has been banded to us, and it is full and explicit upon
.the point now suggested.
The cases establish, that a corpordition has its existence
and domicile only withia the jorisdictim of its origin, ndthat in its nature it is incapable of migration to another
jurisdiction.
Iln the Bank of Anqusia v. Eai'le,t it was said : The artificial person or legal entity ji:owii to the common law as a
corporation, can have nb legal existence out of the hoiunds
of the sovereignty by which it is created, that it exists only
in contemplation of law and by force of law, and where that
law ceases to operate tie corporation can have no existeuce.
It ilist dwell in the place or its creation."
The same doctrine was reiterated and the above lanuage
quoted with approbatioti by Talley, C.J., in Ohio and ississippi Railroad Co. v. WIMeeler.1
In
Newark India-Rubber Manqfacturing Company,§
NDayv.
Mr. Justice Nelson held that a corporation of New Jersey,
although it had a place f6r the-store and sale of its goods in
New York, was not an inhabitant of that city, and that it
could hate no cortorate existence beyond the territory of
*50 New York, 656.
i. 1 Black, 295.

t 13 Peters, 521.
1 Blatchford, 628.

Oct. 1873.] TIOGA R. R. v. BLOSSBURG & CORNING R. R. 149
Opinion of Hunt and Field, JJ., concurring.

New Jersey. These pi-inciples have never been disturbed,
although other dloctrines contained in*these cases in regard,
to the residence of it corporation, when plaintiff in an action,
have been reconsidered.
It- is also established in the courts of New York,* that a
foreign -cotporatiou is a citizen of the State fvom which it
obtains its 61harter, and that it is incapable of immi'-ation.
,We do not say that a corporation cannot run its cars in a
State other than that where it is incorporated and where it
is domiciled, northat it cannot liy its lawful agents make
contracts and do'other business ii'such State. We assume
that it can. In doing these things' it does not lose its resideuce in the former State nor become a resident of'the
latter. It still resides in the State where it is incorporated
and does not depart therefrom.
-We. assume, also, that a foreigr corporation may appoint
an attorney to appear for it when sued in a foreign State,
and that a judgment obtained against it, upon such appearance,would be perfect' and complete. We are not aware
that this proposition has ever been doubted.t
By section one hundred of the New .York "code, already
quoted in full, the statute of limitations does not a pply to
the case of a per'son who shall be "out of the State when
the cause of action shall accrue .against him." If lie "depart from and reside out of the State after such cause'bf
action shall have accrued, the time of his absence shall not
be taken as any part of the time limited for the commencement of sueh action." "Although Ia natural person who has
thus departed may return frequently and remain ]oilg, yet
if his domicile continues in another State, the time of his
non-residence forms 11o part of'the time limited-by the statute.1 It was legally impossible for the Tioga Railroad Company to depart from the State of Pennsylvania. Of course,
it could not bring its residence into the State -of New York.Merrick v. Van Santvoord, 34 New York, 208; see also Stevens v. Phoenix Insurance Co., 41 Id 149, to the same purport.
t McGoon v. Scales, 9 Wallace, 31-2; ,Chaffee v. Hayward, 20 Howard, '08.
: Burroughs v. Bloomer, 5 Denio, 632.

150

TIoGIA R. R. v. BLOS§BURG & CORNING ER. R. [Sup. Ct.
Opinion of Hunt and Field, JJ., concurring.

It was resident out of the State when the cause of action
accrued against it, and bas ever since so continued. There
is no limitation of the time in which the action mpy 6e
brought in such a case.
Statutes of limitation are in their nature arbitrary. They
rest upon no other foundation than the judgment of a State
as to what will promote the interests of its citizens. Each
determines such *limits and imposes such restraints as it
thinks proper.
In Angell on the Limitation of Actions at La :,* the author
,says: "Under the thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, the acts of limitations of the several States, where
no special provision lias been made by Congress, form a
rule of decision in the cou'rts of the United States, and the
same effect is given to them as is given in the S'tate courts.
In accordance besides to a steady course of decision for
many years, the Federal judiciary feel it an incumbent duty
carefully to examine and ascertain if there be a settled constructioil by the State courts of the statutes of the respective
States where they are exclusively in force, and to abide by
and follow such construction when found to be settled.
There is no, uiiwritten or common law of the Union. The
rule of action is found in the different States as it may have
been adopted and modified by legislation and a course of
judicial- decisiois. The rule of decision must be found in/
the local law, written or unwritten."t
The decisions of the courts of th State of New York
uponi the question before us directly, and in its collateral
aspects, have been uniform and consistent. They all sustain
the view we have taken; Burroughs v. Bloorner,J. holding
that the time spent by a person in this State while domiciled
elsewhere, is hot to be deeined as a.part of the time required
for the running of the statufes; McCord v. Woodhull,§ to the
Page 14,

.

24.

t McCluny v. Silliman, 3 Peters, 270; Bank of th9 United States v. Daniel,

12 Id. 32; Harpending v. The ,Dutch Church, 16 Id. 455; Porterfield v.
Clark, 2 Howard, 76.
1 5 Denio, 532.
27 Howard's Practice Reports, 64.

Oct., 1873.] TIoGA R. 11. v. BLOSSBURG & OORNING R. R "151
.Opinion of 41iller and Strong, JJ., dissenting.

same purport; Olot v. Tioga Railroad Corapany,* and Ba'thbun v. Northern Central-RailroadCompany,t together with the
cases already cited, showing ,that a judgment obtained by
service of a summons upon the agent or officer of a foreign
corporation is not personal and conclusive; and ,Blossburg
Railroad Company v. Tioga Railroad Company,t in the Circuit
Court of the United States, heretofore referred 'to, all tend
to the same conclusion.
We have not been referred to a single decision of'the New
York courts in conflict with -these authorities, nor are we
aware of any. We are not at liberty to- depart from this
settled construction were we inclined to do so.§
There is nothing in the rulings upon the trial in regard
to the admission or exclusion 'of evidence that requires our
interference.
Mr. Justice FIELD concurred i41 this opinion.
Mr. Justice MILLER, disenting:
I dissent from that part of the opinion of the court which
relates to the defence of the statute of limitations.
If the State courts of New York have construed their,
statute concerning service of process, to mean 'that no such
service will authorize a judgment against a corporation of
'another State, which will be valid beyond the limits of the
State of New York, it is a-most extraordinary nd upnecesl
sary decision, for it is the province of those other States, or
of the Federal judiciary, to declare the effect of such.judg,
ment, outside of the State of.New York. Besides it is hot
asserted that any such decision has ever been made, except
with reference to its effect upou the right of such corporations to plead the statute of limitations in the State courts
of New York. Nor do I believe that the courts of any State
of the Union except New York, have ever held that a person doing business within the State and liable at all times
* 20 New York, 210.

t 50 Id. 656. $ 5 Blatchford's Circuit Court, 387.
Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1.Wallace, 175; 1 Stat. at Large, 92, note A.

SIMPSON V. GREELEY.

[Sul). Or.

Statement of the case.

to be sued and served personally with process cannot avail
himself of the statute of limitations, if the time prescribed
by it to bar such action has elapsed before it was commenced.
The liability to, suit where process can at all times be served,
must in the nature of things be the test of the running of
the statute. A different -rule applied to an individual because he is a citizen or resident of anotlier State, is a violation at once of equal justice and of the rights confei'red by
the second section of the fourth article of the Federal Constitution, that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
State$.
I can hardly believe, therefore, that the New York statute
means that if two men doing business in adjoining houses
.i the city of New York, one may avail himself of the statute, of the State for limitation of actions, when the time
prescribed. has elapsed, because he is a citizen of that State,
while the other cannot because he is a citizen of New Jersey,
when each has been equally and always.liable to service of
process. Nor do I believe, on a review of all the cases, that
the courts of New York have intended to give such a construction to those statutes.
My brother STRONG agrees with me in these views.

SIMPSON V. GREELEY.
The doctrine settled in Williams v. Bank (11 Wheaton, 414), and declared in
Masterson v. Herndon (10 Wallace, 416), to be 11the established doctrine
of the court "-that allthe pqrties against whom a joint judgment or
decree is rendered inust join in theowrit of.error or appeal, or it will b'e
dismissed, except sufficient cause for the non-joinder be shown-again
adjudged.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Kansas.
Carlos Greeley sued William A. Sim'psO and eight other
persons in one of the county courts of Kansas, to recover

