Oct. 1,873]j

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. BARING.

19

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. BARING.

1. If there be no evidence to support facts, assumed in a prayer for a clfarge,
to have been supported by a greater or less weight of evidence, it is the
duty of the court to reject the prayer., It would be error to leave a
question to a jury in respect to which there was no evidence.
2.. Advances made in a foreign port to equip a vessel, and to procure for her
a cargo to a port.of destination, are pimdfacie presumed to be made on
the credi6 of the vessel.
3. They are a lien on the vessel and constitute an insurable interest.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;

in which court Baring Brothers & Co. sued the Merchants'
Mutual Insurance Company, of New Orleans, for advances
made by them, as the declaration in the case alleged, to the
master and owners of the British bark Fanny, for the purposes of her equipuient and to procure a cairo for the vessel,
in a voyage from Cadiz, in Spain, to the port of New Orleans. The plaintiffs also alleged that through their agents
they had obtained a policy of insurance, dated December
6th, 1867, from defendants. The ingurance company above
named insuring the hull of the bark for $9000, in the name
of the said agents, containing the clauses, " on account of
whom it may concern" and "lost or not lost," for the protection of those advances.
They further alleged that the bark, though well officered,
manned, and equipped, suffered so much. on the voyage,
from the violence of weather, that the master found it necessary to put into a port of Cuba for such repairs as would
enable him to prosecute the voyage; that their agents gave
due notice of those facts to the president of the insurance
company; that the company sent an agent to the port to
take charge of the interest of all concerned; and that from
the moment the agent arrived there he took exclusive charge
of the repairs of the vessel and caused such work to be performed as he thought necessary; that he obtained from their
agent there the funds necessary to pay for all such repairs;
that the bark completed her voyage; that after her arrival

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

BARING.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

at the port of destination an adjustment of averages was
made by the adjusters of averages in that port lor costs,
charges, and( daniges in making such repairs, and that in
the said adjustment they, the plaintif, were awarded $3507
on the said policy or insurance.
The deflendants filed an answer (equivalent to the general
issue in ant action of assunipsit) and a special plea that the
bark was unseaworthy.
The insurance company made three prayers for instrnction :
(1.) That if' the evidence showed that the insurable interest of the plaintiffT was a bottom ry bond oin the bark, and
that the vessel irived in safety at the port of destination,
the jury ,hotihd find for the defendants.
(2.) That it is only when the vessel insured is lost that the
assured oh a bottomry bond can recover, and that if the
proof was that there was no loss or destructioni of theibark,
the jury should find, for the defendants, if the plaintiffs had
imisured on a hottomry bond.
(3.) That the defendants were not bound to tender back
the premiunns of insurance before availing themselves of any
defence against the validity of the policy of insurance, or for
its avoidance by a subsequent cause.
Verdict and judgment went for the plaintiffs for the
amount. awarded by the average adjusters. Exceptions were
taken by the defenldants to the rulings of the court in refusing to instruct the jury as they requested.
Nothing appeared in the record except the declaration,
the answer, the verdict and judgment, the three bills of exceptions to the rulings of the court in refusing to instruct
the jury as requested, neither of which contained any report
of the evidence, and the motion for new trial, which merely
stated.that the verdict-of the jury was conti'ary to law and
the evidence, without giving any statement of the evidence
which was submitted to the jury.
Evidence to show that the action was founded upon a bottomry bond, or that such a bond was offered in evidence, or
introduced at the trial, was entirely ivanting, nor was there

Oct: 1873.]

INSURANCE 0OMPANY

v. BARING.

161

Opinion of the court.

evidence, direct or circumstantial, to show-that such a question as that involved in the third prayer f6r instruction arose
or could have arisen in the case, or that the instruction was
a proper one, in any view of the controversy, for the consideration of the jury.
Viewed in the light of these facts (as this court said that
the case should be viewed), tlhe several rulings of the court
below in. refusing to grant the three prayers for instruction
were considered by this court'together.
Mr. W. .. Erarts, for the plaintiffs in error; Messr. P.
Phillips and D. G. Cqnpbell, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, having stated the case, deliveredthe opinion of the court.
Correct instructions, if applicable to the case, the court,
as a general rule, is required to give, unless the same are in
substance and effect embodied in those previously given by
the court to the juty ; ,but the court is never required by law
to give an instruction to he jury which is not applicable to
the case, even though it be correct as an abstract principle
or rule of.law; afid it may be added that no prayer for
instruction, whether presented by the plaintiff or the defendant, can be regarded as applicable to the case when it is
wholly unsupported by the evidence introduced to the jury.
Competent evidence 'may be written or oral, diredt or circumstantial, but when there.is no legal evidence of any kind
to support the theory of fact embodied in a prayer for instruction, whether presented by the plaintiff or the aefendant, the ijstruction should always be refused; and such a
ruling can nevei- .become a good cause for reversing the
judgment. It is clearly error in a court, said Tafiey, C. J.,
to charge a jury upon a supposed or -conjectural state of
facts, of which no evidence haa been offered, as the instruction presupposes that there is some evidence before the jury
which they may'think sufficient to establish the fact hypothetically assumed in that way by the court, and if there is
no evidence which they have a right to consider, then the
VOL. XX.

11

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. BARING.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

charge does not aid them in coming to a correct conclulsion,
but its tendency is to embarrass and mislead them, as it may
induce then 'to indulge in conjectures instead of weighing
the testiniony.* *Whien a prayer for instruction is presented
to the court, and there is no evidence upon the subject in
the case fbr the consideration of the jury, it ought always to
be withheld, and if it is given under such circumstances, it
will, as a general rule, be regarded as error in the court, for
the reason that its tendency may be, and often is, to mislead
the jury by i ithdrawing their attention from the legitimate
points or inquiry involved in the issne.t Bills of exceptions
ought to state that evidence was offered of the facts upon
which the opinion, of the court is prayed, else the court is
under no obligation to give the ihstruction.1 Though the
judge may reruse to declare the law to the jury on a hypothetical question' yet if he gives the instruction and it is
erroneous, it is the proper subject of revision.ยง But the
true rule, if there be no evidence to support the theory of
fact assumed in the prayer, is to reject it, as it is error to
leave a question to a jury in respect to which there is no
evidence.I
Attempt is made in argument to maintain that the plaintiffs had no insurable interest in the bark unless it be assumed that it was created by a bottomry bond, but the court
is entirely of a different opinion, as it is alleged in the declaration that the advances were made to equip the vessel
and to procure for her a cargo in the voyage from a foreign
port to the port of destination. Founded as the declaration
is upon the policy of insurance it must be construed in con* United States v. Breitling, 20 Howard, 254.
t Goodman v. Sinionds, Ib. 859.
4: Vasse v. Smith, 6 Cranch, 226; United States v. Dunham, 21 Law Reporter, 591 ; Caldwell v.United States, 8 Howard, 366; Blackburn v.Crawfords, 3 Wallace, 176.
Etting v.Bank of the United States, 11 Wheaton, 59; Beaver v. Taylor,
1 Wallace, 637.
Chandler v. Van Roeder, 24 Howard, 224; Railroad v. Gladmon, 15
Wallace, 409.

Oct. 1873.]

INqURANCE COMPANY V. BARING.
Opinion of the court.

nection with the policy. By. the terms of the lt'licy the insurance is upon the bark, her tackle, and apparel, which is
the proper langnage to be employed in a case .where the insured had an interest in the vessel.
Advances-madc on the credit ofa ship for necessary repairs
or supplies in a foreign port create a maritime lien upon the
ship, and it is wefl-settled law that a maritime lien is- a jus
in re;.and that it constitutes ,n incumbrance on the property
of the ship which is not divested by the death or insolvency
-of the owncr.* Sucli a lien may be enforced by a process
in rem, which is fbunded oil a right in the thing, the object
of theprocess being to obtain the thing itself, or a satisfaction out of it, for some claim resting on a real or quasi proprietary right in the thing.t Liens of the kind constitute
an insurable interest, and it is quite clear that enougl\ is
alleged in the declaration to warrant the conclusion that the
advances made in this case are properly to be regarded as
constituting a maritime lien upon the bark.T Contracts for
repairs and supplies may be inade by the master to enable
the vessel to proceed oi her voyage, and if it appears that
they were necessary for the puirpose and that they were made
and furnished to a fbreign vessel or to a vessel of the United
States in a pprt other than a port of the State to which the
.vessel belongs, the prima facie presumption is that the repairs
and supplies were made and furnished on the credit or the
vessel, unless it appears that the master had funds on band
or at his command whichli he ought to have applied to the
accomplishment of those objects, and.that the jnaterial-men
knew that. fact or that such facts and circumstances were
known to them as were sufficicint to put them upon inquiry
and. to show that if they had used due diligence in that beThe Young Mechanic, 2 Curtis, 404; Same Case, 3 Ware, 58; 1 Parsons's Maritime Law, 489; 3 Kent (I1th ed.), 170; General Smith, 4 Whcaton, 438.
j The Commerce, 1 -Black, 580; Buck et al.'v. Insurance Co., 1 Peters,
164; The Mhggie Hammond, 9 Wallace, 456. $ Seamans v. Loring, 1 Mason, 127; 1 Phillips on Insurance (5th ed.),
204; 11an~ox v. Insurance Co., 3 Sumner, 132.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

BARING.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

half they might have ascertained that the master had no authority to contract for such repairs and supplies on tile credit
of the vessel.* Whenever the necessity for the repairs and
supplies is once made out it is incumbent upon the owners,
if they allege that the funds could have been obtained upon
their personal credit, to establish that fact by competent
proof, and that the material-men knew the same or were
put upon inquiry, as before explained, unless those matters
fully appear in thje evi(lelce introduced by the other party.t
Apply those principles to the case and it is clear that the
objection that the plaintiffs had no insurable interest in the
bark utterly fails, as it is not controverted that the advances
were made to equip the vessel and to procure a cargo for
her in the described voyage; and it is sufficient that such
an allegation affords It prima ficie presumption that the advances were made ou the credit of the vessel, as the record
fails to disclose, any fact or circumstance to overcome that
presumption. Such advances constitute a lien upon the
ship, and such a lien gives the lender an insurable interest
ill the ship.1
Absolutely nothing appears in the record to support the
theory that any such defences as those assumed in the prayers
for instruction were in fact set up by tie defendants in the
subordinate court, except what is contained in the prayers
for instruction presented to the court. They pleaded a general denial of the allegations of the declaration and that the
l)ark was unseaworthy at the inception of the risk and
throughout the voyage, but no mention is nade of any such
defences as those implied in the prayers for instruction in
any other part of the record, nor is there any eviden~ce whatever upon the subject.
The Lulu, 10 Wallace, 197; The Patapsco, 13 Wallace, 333; 2 Parsons
on Shipping, 322 to 337.
t The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 141; Thomas v. Osborn, 19 Howard, 22.
1 Seamans v. Loring, 1 Mason, 127; 1 Phillips on Insurance (5th ed.),
204; Godin v. Insurance Co., I Buirow, 489; Lucena v. Craufurd, 5 Bosanquet & Puller, 294; Wells v. Insurance Co., 9 Sergeant & Rawle, 103.

Oct. 1873.]

ROACH V. SUMMERS.
Statement of the case.

Defences in avoidance of the claim made in the declaration must be proved in the court of original jurisdiction, and
if not prbved there they cannot be successfully set up in the
appellate court to support an assignment of error.
Other matters were discussed at the bar, but it is not necessary to examine aily other of the propositions submitted,
as these suggestions are sufficient to dispose of the case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

ROACH V. SUMMERS.
1. A. surety is not discharged by a contract between his principal and their
common obligee, which does not place him in a different position Trom
that which tie occupied before the contract was made.
2. Answers in chancery not responsive to a bill, and not sustained by other
proof, are of no avail as evidence.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi.
Summers & 0o; filed a bill in the court below against
Eugene and Naylor Roach (the last a representative of I. W.
Roach, deceased), and R.. B. and B. M. Butler, for an account
and for the foreclosure of a mortgage. The bill averred
that in the year.1867, the said E. and I. W. Roach, demised
a plantation in the State of Mississippi to R. B. and B. M.
Butler for the business of cotton planting; that to enable
the Butlers-to obtain supplies for the plantation from the
complainants, Summers & Co., the Messrs. Roach, together
with the Butlers, executed two promissory notes, each in
the sum of $2500, payable to the complainants, dated February 1st, 1867, and falling due in October and November
of that year; that payment of-the notes was secured by a
mortgage given by the Messrs. Roach, and that it was agreed
the cotton raited lon the demised plantation should be shipped
to the complainants; nothing being alleged in the bill as to
what was then to be done with it or its proceeds. The bill

