Oct. 1874.]

PARCELS V. JOHNSON.
Statement of the case.

-

PARCELS V. JOHNSON.
A writ of error from this court will not lie to remove tho judgment of an
inferior appellate court, where the judgment of that court remands a
case to another below it for new trial and hearing, and where it is evi-.
dent that the parties have not exhausted the power of these inferior
courts.
ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Missouri.

Mrs. Johnson brought suit against o'ne Parcels, in one of
the Circuit Courts of Adair County, Missouri, to have aii
assignment of dower in a certain one hundred and twenty
acres of land, of which she alleged that her husband had
been seized in fee simple and in such way as that she was
'dowable of the land.
The facts appeared to be, that her husband, before his
marriage with her, had been a soldier in the infant try service
of the United States in the war of 1812, and as such Was entitled under acts of Congress to one hundred and twenty
aces of land; that a warrant for this quantity of land was
issued to him; that the plaintiff 'Was afterwards married to
him; that they had one child; that the husbanddied; his
wife and child surviving; that afterwards, under an. act of
Copgress, the warrant was located on the land in which the
dower was claimed; that a patent soon afterwards, and before this suit was brought, issued in the name of the -husband, for it; and that the curator of the child, under certain
judicial proceedings, sold the land to Parcels, the defendant.
The defence wa-,1st. That the husband in his lifetime had no such seizin
or estate as authorized his wife to be endowed.
2d. That the curator had reserved one-third of the proceeds of the sale of the land for-the wife's use. and -benefit,
and hs her supposed dower in the money.
The second defeice, -however, was not proved, 'the defendant relying chiefly on the first.,
The Circuit Court 6f Adair County adjuidged that the

PARCELS V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

husband had not been seized of any such estate as Mrs.
Johnson could be epdowed of.
From this judgment Mrs. Johnson took the case to the
Supreme Court of Missouri. That court was of a different
view, and having delivered and filed a learned opinion, found
in the record, ordered the judgment of the Adair County
Court to be reversed; and that"The said cause be remanded to the aforesaid Adair Circuit
Court for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity with
the opinion of this court herein delivered and filed."
From tlis judgment Parcels now brought the case here,
where it was elaborately argued upon the merits.
Mr. B. G. Barrow (with whom was Mr. M. -. Carpenter),
for the plaintiffin error; Mr. J7. _F. Benjamin, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion.of the court.
This writ of error is dismissed, upon the authority of
Moore v. Robbins,* St. Clair County v. Lovingston,t Tracy v.
llolconbe, Pepper v. Dunlap,ยง Brown v. Union Bank.Ij
A writ of error can only issue from this court to the
highest court of a State for a r~view of the final judgment
or decree of. that court in a'suit. In other words, it is only
the last judgment or the last decree which the State courts
can give in a suit, until that judgmentor decree is set aside
er rdversed, that this court can, even in the prescribed cases
bring here for re-examination.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri, brought
up in this case, is one of reversal only and remanding the
suit to the inferior court for, further proceedings in accordance with the opinion delivered and filed. The cause was:
.sent back, therefore, for a new trial or a new hearing. Upon
such trial or hearing the inferior court can proceed to render a new judgment, not inconsistent with the opinion, and
18 Wallace, 588.
5 Id. 51.

f Ib. 028.

114 Id. 485.

$ 24 Howard, 426.

Oct. 1874.]

LOAN AssoCIATIOZL V. TOPEKA.

656

Syllabus.

that judgment may in its turn be taken to the Supreme
Court for examination.
From the record it appdars that one of the defences set
up in the answer, to wit, that which was based upQn the implied acceptance of one-third of the proceeds of the guardian's sale in lieu of dower in the land, was not proven. On
a new trial that proof may be supplied and a.jpdgnient rendered thereon satisfactory to the now complaining party.
In that manner the present supposed Federal question may
be put out of the case. So, too, the present pleadings may
'be amended and a new case made, which will reuder unnecessary the consideratiqn of any question that can give this
court jurisdiction.
Thus it is apparent that the parties -have not vs yet exhausted the power of the State courts in the premises, and
until that is done our power cannot be called into action.
This court must be the last resort of litigants, in State courts.
WRIT DISMISSED.

LOAN ASSOCIATION v. TOPEKA.
1."
A statute which authorizes towns to contract debts or other obligations
payable in money implies the duty to levy taxes to pay them, unless
some other fund or source of payment is provided.
2. If there is no power in the legislature which passed such a statute to authorize the levy of taxes in aid of the purpose for which the obligation
is to be contracted, the statute is void, and so are the bonds or other
forms of contract based on the statute.
3. There is no such thing in the theory of our governments, State and National, as unlimited power in any of their branches. The executive,
the legislative, and the judicial departments are all of limited and defined powers.
4. There are limitations of such powers which arise but of the essential nature of all free governments; implied reservations of individual rights,
without which the social compact could not exist, and which are respected by all governments entitled to the name..
5. Among these is the limitation of the right of taxation, that it can only"
be used in aid of a public object, an object which is within the purpose
for which govei-pments are established.

