BOLEY v. GRISWOL[p.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

BOLEY V. GRISWOLD.
In an action in the courts of the Territory of 'Montana for the recovery of
the possession of personal property-thd code of civil procedure in which
Territory provides that the judgnont in such an action may be for the
possession of tue property, or the value thereof in case a delivery cannot,
be had, and damages for the detention-while it is true that there can
be no judgment for the value if there can be a delivery of the property,
yet it is not true that a judgment is necessarily erroneous if the ,lternative is not expressed upon its face. The court must be satisficd that the
delivery cannot be made before it can adjudge absolutely the payment
of money. But, if so satisfied, it may so adjudge. A special finding
that a delivery cannot be made is not necessary. An absolute judgment
for the money is equivalent to such a finding.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
The Civil Practice Act of the Territory of Kontana thus
enacts:
ERROR

"In an action to recover possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintiffi may be for the possession or the value
thereof,in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the
,detention of them."
This act being in force, Griswold sued Bolev in one of
the District Courts of Montana for the recovery of the possession of certain cattle. The jury found as follows:
"For the return of the cattle to tile plaintiff, aid in case a
return of the same could not be had, $3000, the value thereof;
and $800 damages for the detention."
On this verdict the court entered a judgment that plaintiff
recover fron! defendant the sum of $3800, .with interest, &c.
No alternative judgment, as provided by the Practice Act,
for the possession or return of the property, was rendered
upon the verdict by the District Court.
The defendant took the case to the Supreme Court, which
affirmed the judgment of the District Court. Thereupon
he brought the case here.

Oct. 1874.]

BOLEY

v.

GRISWOLD.

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. 3-. Jiubley Ashton and N. Wilson; for the plainif in

error:
The section of the Civil Practice Act of Montana, on
which this case depends, appears:to be identical with section
277, of the New York Code, which prescribes the form of
judgment to be taken in actions to recover the possession
of personal property. Up9u that code the Court of Appeals
of New York has decided* that neither a plaintiff nor a defendant, in ail action to recover the possession of such property, can take judgment for the value of property, except as
an alternative; and that if a judgment is taken for the value
alone, and no alternative judgment is entered for the return
of the property, it will be erroneous, and that for such error
the'judgment for the value will be reversed by ati appellate
conrt.
This seems a rational view of the case, and comes before
this court with the support of' a tribunal particularly conversant with the general priinciples of the Civil Practice Act
under consideration.
Mr. 1Robert Leech, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion 6f the court.
It is true that, under the Civil Practice Act of Mon'tana
there can be no judgment for the value if there can be a
delivery of the property. :but it is'not true that a judgment
the alternative is not expressed
is necessdrily erroneous ifupon its face. The court must be satisfied that the deliv'ey
cannot be made before if'can adjudge absolutely the payment of money. But, if so satisfied, it may so adjudge.
special finding to that effect is not necessary. An absolute
judgment for the money is equivalent to such a finding.
In one part of this record it appears that the verdict was
for the return of the property,.or, in case that could not
be made, for $3000, the value, and $800 damages for the
detention. The juidgment was for the money, and the pre* Dwight v.. Enos, 5 Selden, 472, 476; Fitzhugh v. -Wiman, lb. 563.

488

HEARNE V. MARINE INSURANCE COrPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sumption is, in the absence of anything in the record to the
contrary, that before it was rendered the court had become
judicially satisfied that the property could not be returned.
In a court of error every presumption is in thvor of the validity of the judgment brought under consideration. Error
must appear affirmatively before there can be a reversal.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HEARNE V.

MARINE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

Where, by the terms of a policy, a vesscl is insured " to a port in Cuba,
and at and thence to port of advice and discharge in Europe," and the
vessel is lost in going from the port of discharge in Cuba, to another
port in the same ishnd for reloading, held on a suit on the policy for a
loss that evidence by the assured was inadmissible to show a usage that
vessels going to Cuba might visit at two ports, one for discharge and
another for loading. [In the ]present case the court held that the evidence offered did not show such a usage.]
2. 'Where there has been a deviation in a voyage insured, no decree will be
made for a return of any part of the premium. The deviation annuls
the contract as to subsequent parts of the voyage and causes a forfeiture
1.

of the premium.

APPEAL in equity from the decree of the Circuit Court for
the District of Massachusetts. Hlearne filed a bill in the
court below against the New England Mutual Marine Insurance Company to reform a contract of insurance, lie alleging
that Ilie policy as made ont did not conifOrii to the aglreement of the parties, taking that agreement with the usage
or custom which he insisted entered into and formed a part
of it.
The case was thus:
On the 7th of May, 1866, Hearne made his application by
lottw' to tihe company fbr insurance. He said:

,' The bark Maria Henry is chartered to go from Liverpool to
Cuba and load for Europe, via Falmouth for orders where to
discharge. Please insure $5000 on this charter valued at $16,000,
provided you will not charge over 4 per cent. pr.mium."

