JOHNSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

JOHNSTON
NO. 643.

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.*

Argued May 2-3, 1956.-Decided May 21, 1956.
These registrants under the Universal Military Training and Service
Act were classified as conscientious objectors and were ordered by
their local draft boards to report for civilian work at state hospitals
located in judicial districts other than those in which they resided
and were registered and where their orders were issued. They
refused to report for work at the places designated, and each was
indicted for a violation of § 12 (a) of the Act. Held: The venue
for their trials was in the judicial districts where the civilian work
was to be performed-not in the judicial districts in which they
resided and where their orders were issued. Pp. 216-223.
(a) The general rule is that, where the crime charged is a failure
to do a legally required act, the place fixed for its performance
determines the situs of the crime. P. 220.
(b) The possibility that registrants might be ordered to report
to points remote from the situs of draft boards neither allows nor
requires judicial changes in the law of venue. P. 220.
(c) The venue requirements of Article III of the Constitution
and the Sixth Amendment state the public policy that fixes the
situs of a trial in the vicinage of the crime rather than where
the accused is a resident; and a variation from that rule for the
convenience of the prosecution or the accused is not justified.
Pp. 220-221.
227 F. 2d 745, affirmed.
229 F. 2d 257, reversed.

Hayden C. Covington argued the causes and filed a
brief for petitioners in No. 643 and respondent in
No. 704.
*Together with No. 704, United States v. Patteson, on certiorari
to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

Carl H. Imlay argued the causes for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Sobelof], Assistant Attorney General Olney and Beatrice
Rosenberg.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These two cases concern the prosecution of three defendants for violations of the provisions of the Universal
Military Training and Service Act. 50 U. S. C. App.
§ 451 et seq. We must determine the proper venue for
the trial of these crimes.
Defendants Johnston and Sokol resided in the Western
Judicial District of Pennsylvania and registered there
with the local draft boards. Both were classified 1-0
(conscientious objectors) and both were ordered to report
to the boards for assignment of civilian work in lieu of
induction. They were instructed to report to separate
state hospitals situated in the Eastern Judicial District of
Pennsylvania. They reported to the boards but personally refused to comply with the instructions. They
were indicted in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
and the indictments were dismissed for'lack of jurisdiction on the ground that venue could only be in the
Western District. 131 F. Supp. 955. The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed and remanded the
case for trial. That court reasoned that venue was where
the defendants failed to report. 227 F. 2d 745.
Defendant Patteson, likewise classified 1-0, was ordered to report to his local board in Oklahoma for similar assignment. He, too, reported to the board and there
personally refused to comply with instructions to report
at the Topeka, Kansas, State Hospital. After indictment
in Kansas, the Kansas District Court ordered the case
transferred to Oklahoma under Rule 21 (b), Fed. Rules

JOHNSTON v. UNITED STATES.
215

Opinion of the Court.

Crim. Proc. 1 The Oklahoma court retransferred the case
to Kansas as it thought the venue was there. The
Kansas court thereupon dismissed the indictment on the
ground that the venue was in Oklahoma. 132 F. Supp.
67. The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit. 229 F. 2d 257.
Each registrant received an order, the pertinefit parts
of which follow:
iSELECTIVE

SERVICE SYSTEM

"ORDER TO REPORT FOR CIVILIAN WORK
AND STATEMENT OF EMPLOYER
"You are ordered to report to the local board named
above at m. on the
day of
, 195 , where
you will be given instrfictions to proceed to the place of
employment.
"You are ordered to report for employment pursuant
to the instructions of the local board, to remain in employment for twenty-four (24) consecutive months or
until such time as you are released or transferred by
proper authority.
"You will be instructed as to your duties at the place
of employment.
"Failure to report at the hour and on the day named
in this order, or to proceed to the place of employment
pursuant to instructions, or to remain in this employment
I "(b)

OFFENSE'COMMITTED IN

Two OR I IORE DISTRICTS ORDIVI-

The court upon motion of the defendant shall transfer the
proceeding as to him to another district or division, if it appears from
the indictment or information or from a bill of particulars that the
offense was committed in more than one district or division and if the
court is satisfied that in the interest of justice the proceeding should
be transferred to another district or division in which the commission
of the offense is charged."
SIONS.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
351 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the specified time will constitute a violation of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended,
which is punishable by fine or imprisonment or both.
;'. . . . . . °.

. . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . .

. . .. . . ..

"(Clerk or Member of the Local Board)
"STATEMENT

OF EMPLOYER

"Failed to report
"Personnel Director"

2

None of the registrants entered the district of his indictment after receiving his orders.
The indictment in each case charges the registrant.,
a conscientious objector,3 with violation of § 12 (a) of the
Act.' In the Johnston indictment the pertinent language
is:

"... did knowingly neglect to perform a duty imposed upon him by the provision of said Act in that
2The stipulations in the Johnston and Sokol cases show the use of
this form. The Patteion case iilso was argued on this understanding
and defendant's motion to dismiss was sustained on allegations of fact
that confirm otir assumption that his order also was on the same
form.
350 U. S. C. App. § 456 (j):
"... Any person claiming exemption from combatant training
and service because of such conscientious objections whose claim is
sustained by the local board shall . . . in lieu of such induction, be
ordered by his local board ... to perform ... such- civilian
work . . . as the local board may deem appropriate and any such
person who knowingly fails or neglects to obey any such order from
his local board shall be deemed, for the purposes of section 12 of this
title, . . . to have knowingly failed or neglected to perform a duty
required of him under this title ......
4
50 U. S. C. App. § 462 (a):
"Any . . . person . . . who in any manner shall knowingly fail
or neglect or refuse to perform any duty required of him under or in

JOHNSTON v. UNITED STATES.
215

219

Opinion of the .Court.

he failed and refused to obey an order of Local Board
87, New Castle, Pennsylvania, directing him to report for employment at Norristown State Hospital,
Norristown, Pennsylvania, and to remain employed
there for twenty-four consecutive months in violation
of Title 50, U. S. C. Appx., Sections 456 and 462, as
amended."
In the Sokol case it is:
".. . did knowingly neglect to perform a duty . . .
in that he failed to report to the Philadelphia State
Hospital, . . . for assignment to perform civilian
work contributing to the maintenance of the national
health, safety or interest, in lieu of induction; in
violation of Title 50 Appx. Secs. 456 (j) and 462."
In the Patteson case it i8:
". did knowingly and willfully refuse, neglect and
fail to report at the Topeka State Hospital at the
time and place so designated in said order."
The question at issue in these three cases is fairly presented by the registrants Johnston and Sokol in their
petition for certiorari. It reads thus:
"Where each petitioner resided in the Western
District of Pennsylvania, the Selective Service local
board of each was located in the Western District of
Pennsylvania, the orders to perform work were issued
in the Western District of Pennsylvania and each
petitioner did not go beyond his local board in the
Western District of Pennsylvania and at all times
refused to leave theWestern District of Pennsylvania
the execution of this title
, or rules, regulations, or directions
made pursuant to this title . . .shall, upon conviction in any district
court of the United States of competent jurisdiction, be punished
by imprisonment for not more than five'years or a fine of not more
than $10,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment ...."

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

and did not proceed to the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, were the offenses committed in the Western
District of Pennsylvania and not in the Eastern
District and, therefore, does it violate rights guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution
to indict and prosecute each petitioner in the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania?"
Our analysis of the law and the facts in these cases
convinces us that the venue of these violations of the
orders lies in the district where the civilian work was to
be performed, that is, for Patteson in Kansas, and the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania for Johnston and Sokol.
We are led to this conclusion by the general rule that
where thie crime charged is a failure to do a: legally required act, the place fixed for its performance fixes the
situs of the crime.5 The possibility that registrants might
be ordered to report to points remote from the situs of
draft boards neither allows nor requires judicial changes
in the law of venue. No showing of any arbitrary action
appears in these cases. Article III of the Constitution
and the Sixth Amendment fix venue "in the State" and
"district wherein the crime shall have been committed."
The venue of trial is thereby predetermined, but those
provisions do not furnish guidancefor determination of
the place of the crime. That place is determined by the
acts of the accused that violate a statute. This requirement of venue states the public policy that fixes the situs
of the trial in the vicinage of the crime rather than the
5Rumely v. McCarthy, 250 U. S. 283; United States v. Lombardo, 241 U. S. 73; Jones v. Pescor, 169 F. 2d 853; New York
Central & H. R. Co. v. United States, 166 F. 267. See cases cited in
United States v. Anderson, 328 U. S. 699, 705, n. 14, and see United
States v. Wyman, 125 F. Supp. 276, 280. Compare state court decisions which hold that a State may punish a father for nonsupport of
his child even though the defendant is outside the State while committing the offense. Comment, 6 Stan. L. Rev. 709.

JOHNSTON v. UNITED STATES.
215

Opinion of the Court.

residence of the accused. Cf. United States v. Anderson,
328 U. S.699, 705. A variation from that rule for convenience of the prosecution or the accused is not, justified.
The result would be delay and confusion.'
This rule was followed in United States v. Johnson,
323 U. S.273, relied on by the registrants, where a maker
and shipper of dentures mailed in Illinois was charged in
Delaware, the State of receipt by a consignee, with violating the law by "use" of the mails "for the purpose of
sending or bringing into" a State such dentures. Id., at
274. This Court, by interpretation of the statute, restricted prosecution of the shipper to the State of the
shipment saying:
"It is a reasonable and not a strained construction to
read the statute to mean that the crime of the sender
is complete when he uses the mails in Chicago, and
the crime of the unlicensed dentist in California or
Florida or Delaware, who orders the dentures from
Chicago, is committed in the State into which he
brings the dentures. As a result, the trial of the
sender is restricted to Illinois and that of the unlicensed dentist to Delaware or Florida or California."
Id., at 277-278.7
Venue for these prosecutions lies where, under § 12 (a),
supra, the registrants did "knowingly fail or neglect or
refuse to perform any duty required of him under or in
the execution of this title . . . , or rules, regulations, or
directions made pursuant to this title . . . ." These regCf. United States v. Lombardo, 241 U. S. 73, 78; Haas v. Henkel,
216 U. S. 462.
7 See also United States v. Wilson and United States v.'Purchasing
Corp., 344 U. S. 923, where in an interpretation of a statutory duty
to "forward" a report of shipments under the Tobacco Tax Act, 63
Stat. 884, we approved the District Court judgment that venue for
prosecution was in the district of the shipper rather than the district
of the receiver of the report.
6

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

istrants were made subject to § 12 (a) by § 6 (j), which
declares that a conscientious objector who fails or neglects
to obey an order of his local board shall be deemed to have
"failed or neglected to perform a duty required of him"
by § 12.8

The orders set out above, p. 217, could only be the basis
of one conviction but they directed the registrant to perform two duties. The first is to report to the local board.
This was done by each registrant. The second is to report for employment and to remain there in employment
for 24 consecutive months. The "instructions to proceed"
given by the board and the statement that "failure * . .
to proceed to the place of employment pursuant to
instructions" would constitute a crime, are for the
registrant's information. They did not create another
duty. This appears emphatically from the characterization in the explanatory paragraph that failure to report
or proceed to the place of employment would be a violation of orders. The crimes charged arise from failure
to complete the second duty-report for employment.
Accordingly venue must lie where the failure occurred.
See cases cited above, n. 5.
It will be noted that the indictments set out the place
of the alleged crimes in the terms of the orders and give
jurisdiction for trial in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the District of Kansas. In each instance, the
charge is failure to perform a "duty" in that the registrant
8We ruled in the case of Dodez v. United States, 329 U. S. 338, that
Dodez had exhausted his administrative remedies and therefore could
defend on indictment his failure*when he violated an order to report
to the local board for work of national importance. Venue was
laid in the District of the Board. No question was raised or decided
here as to venue. Petition for certiorari, p. 2; Brief of the United
States. Furthermore, as the United States points out in this case,
at the time of Dodez' breach, the Government delivered the conscientious objector registrants to the place of work. See Order to
Report for Work, R. 155, No. 86, 1946 Term.

JOHNSTON v. UNITED STATES.
215

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

failed "to report" to the respective hospitals. Thus, the
indictments, based on the charged violation of the order,
follow, as we see it, the requirements of law for trial in
the State and district where the crime was committed.
We affirm the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in
No. 643, Johnston and Sokol, and reverse the Court of
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit-in No. 704, the Patteson
case.
No. 643, affirmed.
No. 704, reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE BLACK concur, dissenting.
Patteson, who lives in Oklahoma and defied his draft
board there, is required to stand trial in Kansas.
Johnston and Sokol, who live in the Western District
of Pennsylvania and defied their draft board there, are
forced by this decision to stand trial in the Eastern
District. Yet each defied the law at home, not in the
distant place. Unlike United States v. Anderson, 328
U. S.699, no act of any kind was committed in the distant
district. Unlike Rumely v. McCarthy, 250 U. S.283, and
United States v. Lombardo, 241 U. S. 73, Congress has
not specifically selected the failure to perform an act in
the distant district and made it a crime. The statutory
crime is the failure of a conscientious objector, directed
to perform civilian work, "to obey any such order from
his local board." 62 Stat. 612, as amended, 65 Stat. 86,
50 U. S. C. App. § 456 (j). The argument in the case has
been like a theological debate over the number of angels
who can stand on the head of a pin. Of course, the duty
to obey can be divided up into a whole series of duties.
But, when the registrant is adamant in his refusal to
budge from his home town and stays at home defying the
local authorities, the crime he has committed has been
committed at home.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

351 U. S.

Any doubts should be resolved in favor of the citizen.
We should construe the statute against two historic
constitutional provisions. Article III, § 2, cl. 3, provides
that "The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury; and such Trial shall be held in
the State where the said Crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any S'tate, the
Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress
may by Law have directed." And the Sixth Amendment
guarantees an accused "a speedy and public trial, by an
impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime
shall have been committed, which district shall have been
previously ascertained by law . . . ." While we have
here a statutory problem, not a constitutional one, the
history of the two constitutional guarantees throws light
on the problem of venue. When the British Parliament
proposed taking Americans abroad or to another colony
for trial, the Virginia Resolves of May 16, 1769, voiced the
unanimous view that "thereby the inestimable Privilege
of being tried by a Jury from the Vicinage, as well as the
Liberty of summoning and producing Witnesses on such
Trial, will be taken away from the Party accused." *
The boys in the present cases suffer comparably. For
their defiance of their local boards they are sent to distant places for trial where they have no friends, where
they are unknown, and to which all witnesses must be
transported. Congress would have the power to fix the
venue there. But it has not done so unambiguously,
Cf. United States v. Midstate Co., 306 U..S. 161, 166;
United States v. Johnson, 323 U. S. 273, 276. I would
read the statute with an eye to history and try the
offenders at home where our forefathers thought that
normally men would receive the fairest trial.
*Journals of the House of Burgesses of Virginia, 1766-1769, p. 214.

