REID v. COVERT.
Syllabus.

REID, SUPERINTENDENT, DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA JAIL, v. COVERT.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 701. Argued May 3, 1956.-Decided June 11, 1956.
Pursuant to Article 2 (11) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice,
the dependent wife, of a United States Air Force sergeant was tried
and convicted by a military court-martial in England for the
murder of her husband there. She was sentenced to life imprisonment and brought to a federal prison in the United States. On
appeal, her conviction was 'set aside, and she was transferred to
the District of Columbia jail to await retrial by court-m.artial
at an air base in Washington, D. C.. While there, she petitioned
the local federal district court for a writ of habeas corpus, claiming
that she was not subject to military jurisdiction because Article
2 (11) was unconstitutional. The court ordered the writ to issue,
directed to the Superintendent of the jail, and he appealed directly
to this Court. Held:
1. Article 2 (11) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice is
constitutional. Kinsella v. Krueger, ante, p. 470. P. 488.
2. As custodian of a federal prisoner, the Superintendent of the
jail is an officer or employee of the United States for purposes of
28 U. S. C. § 1252, and this Court has jurisdiction of his direct
appeal under that section. Pp. 489-490.
3. Military jurisdiction, once validly attached, continues until
final disposition of the case. Therefore, jurisdiction of the Air
Force to try appellee by court-martial under Article 2 (11) was not
lost by her return to the United States and delivery to the custody
of civilian authorities. Toth v. Quarles, 350 U. S.11, distinguished.
Pp. 490492.
Reversed.

Marvin E. Frankel argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Sobeloff,
Assistant Attorney General Olney, Beatrice Rosenberg
and Richard J. Blanchard.
Frederick Bernays Wiener argued the cause and filed
a brief for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CLARK

351 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Mrs. Clarice Covert was convicted and sentenced to
life imprisonment by a military court-martial which tried
her at a United States Air Force base in England for
the murder of her husband, an Air Force sergeant. She
was brought to the United States and confined in the
Federal Reformatory for Women, Alderson, West Virginia. On appeal, the United States Court of Military
Appeals set aside her conviction on grounds not material
here, and she was transferred .to the District of Columbia
jail to await a rehearing by court-martial at Bolling Air
Force Base, Washington, D. C. While there she filed a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia, alleging that
she was not subject to court-martial jurisdiction because
Xrticle 2 (11) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 50
U. S. C. § 552, was unconstitutional. The District Court
ordered the writ to issue, and the Government appealed
directly to this Court. Postponing the question of jurisdiction until a hearing on the merits, 350 U. S. 985, we
scheduled this case for argument with Kinsella v. Krueger,
ante, p. 470, decided this day.
At the outset, appellee questions the jurisdiction of this
Court to hear the case on direct appeal from the District
Court. , For reasons hereafter stated, we conclude that we
have jurisdiction.
Appellee's principal argument on the merits is answered
by our decision in Kinsella v. Krueger, ante, p. 470. It is
also contended, however, that whatever jurisdiction the
military may .have had to try Mrs. Covert by courtmartial under Article 2 (11) was lost by her return to
the United States and delivery to the custody of civilian
authorities. We conclude that in the circumstances of
this case this argument is without merit.

REID v. COVERT.
487

Opinion of the Court.

I.

The question of our jurisdiction involves an interpretation of 28 U. S. C. § 1252:
"Any party may appeal to the Supreme Court from
an interlocutory or final judgment, decree or order
of any court of the United States . . . holding an

Act of Congress unconstitutional in any civil action,
suit, or proceeding to which the United States or
any of its agencies, or any officer or employee thereof,
as such officer or employee, is a party."
It is conceded that, in issuing the writ of habeas corpus,
the District Court held an Act of Congress unconstitutional. Appellee's sole contention is that appellant, the
Superintendent of the District of Columbia jail, does not
come within the requirement of § 1252 that "the United
States, or any of its agencies, or any officer or employee
thereof, as such officer or employee," be a party.
The Superintendent is responsible to the Director of
the Department of Corrections of the District of Columbia, who in turn is selected by the Board of Commissioners
of the District. Reorganization Order No. 24, D. C. Code,
1951, App. to Title 1, Supp. III, p. 34. The Commissioners are appointed by the President and are officers
of the United States under Art. II, § 2, of the Constitution. The Superintendent has a statutory duty to
"receive and keep in the Washington Asylum and Jail
all prisoners committed thereto for offenses against
the United States." D. C. Code, 1951, § 24-410. Mrs.
Covert was placed in the District jail on orders of the Air
Force, because there are no accommodations for women
prisoners at Bolling Air Forc6 Base, where the rehearing
of her trial by court-martial-is scheduled.
It has long been settled that. an officer, while holding
prisoners for the United States, is the "keeper of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

United States," Randolph v. Donaldson, 9 Cranch 76, 86,
and, as such, is an officer of the United States. Since
appellant was required to "receive and keep" prisoners
of the United States, he is, to that extent, an officer of the
United States. It is not necessary to say, and we do not
say, that the District of Columbia in these circumstances
is an "agency" of the United States. For, whether the
Government should maintain its own jail in the District of
Columbia, or utilize the local facilities, is simply a matter
of administrative convenience, and it would do violence
to the purpose of Congress to provide a "prompt review
of the constitutionality of federal acts," Fleming v.
Rhodes, 331 U. S. 100, 104, to interpret § 1252 restrictively. For all practical purposes, the District of Columbia jail is, in this case, the "jail of the United States,"
Randolph v. Donaldson, supra, and the Superintendent
is its keeper. As the custodian of Mrs. Covert, a federal
prisoner, appellant is an officer or employee of the United
States for purposes of § 1252.
II.
On the merits, Mrs. Covert contends that Article 2 (11)
should be restricted geographically, and therefore military
jurisdiction over her expired upon her return to the
United States. She also contends that, as a civilian,
she is no longer subject to the Code, since she is not in
"custody of the armed forces" .inder Article 2 (7).
An entirely different case might be presented if Mrs.
Covert had terminated her status as a person "accompanying the armed forces without the continental limits
of the United States" by returning to this country voluntarily. But that is not this case. The issue here is
whether we should create an exception to the general
rule that jurisdiction of a tribunal, once acquired, continues until final disposition. At the time of her court-

REID v. COVERT.
487

Opinion of the Court.

martial in England, Mrs. Covert was subject to military
jurisdiction under Article 2 (11), Kinsella v. Krueger,
ante, p. 470. Her transfer under orders of the Air Force
was in furtherance of that jurisdiction. To accept Mrs.
Covert's argument would result in the anomalous situation that military jurisdiction, validly exercised under
Article 2 (11), would be defeated by the imposition of a
sentence under Article 58, 50 U. S. C. § 639, which provides for confinement "in any penal or correctional institution under the control of the United States, or which
the United States may be allowed to use." It would
be unreasonable to hold that the services retained jurisdiction of military prisoners that they kept in foreign
countries but lost jurisdiction of prisoners confined in
penal institutions in the United States.
Nor is jurisdiction defeated by reversal of Mrs. Covert's
conviction and the ordering of a rehearing. The military
courts have recognized rehearings to be but continuations
of the original proceedings, United States v. Padilla, 5
C. M. R. 31, 42; United States v. Moore, 5 C. M. R. 438,
444; United States v. Milbourne, 15 C. M. R. 527, 528;
and the legislative history of Article 63 of the Code
bears out the fact that they were so intended by Congress. H. R. Rep. No. 491, 81st Cong., 1st Sess. .30;
S. Rep. No. 486, 81st Cong., 1st Sess. 27.
W7 also note that this case is clearly distinguishable
from Toth v. Quarles, 350 U. S. 11. Toth had returned
to the United States and been honorably discharged
months before the specifications were filed charging him
with an offense committed while'a soldier in Korea. The
Air'Force had relinquished all jurisdiction over Toth
before any charge was filed against him. But here,
'Mrs. Covert was charged, tried, convicted, sentenced and
imprisoned pursuant to a valid exercise of court-martial
jurisdiction while she was concededly within the

492.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

provisions of Article 2 (11). We are not deciding here
when, in other circumstances, Article 2 (11) jurisdiction
may terminate. In this case we hold only that military
jurisdiction, once validly attached, continues until final
disposition of the case.
Reversed.
[For reservation of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, see
ante, p. 481.]

[For dissent of MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN, MR. JUSand MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, see ante, p. 485.]

TICE BLACK,

