N. Y. FILTRATION CO. t/. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
223 U.S.

23

Opinion of the Court.

NEW YORK CONTINENTAL JEWELL FILTRATION COMPANY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA..
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 145.

Argued December 22, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.

The Union Station Act of February 28, 1903, 32 Stat. 909, c. 856, imposed larger liabilities on the railroad company for necessary changes
than did the earlier act of February 22, 1901, 31 Stat. 767, c. 353,
and provided for the payment of a sum of money to the railroad com-,
pany. The work contemplated by the later act included material
changes whether within or outside of the right of way.
Under the contract made by the plaintiff in this case with the District
of Columbia for the latter to make the necessary changes, the District is entitled to be paid for all the work outside of, as well as within,
the railroad's right of way.
Independently of the statute, and on the evidence as to the intention
of the parties, the contract is properly construed as including work
outside of as well as within the right of way.
33 App. D. C. 377, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
acts of Congress for the erection of the Union Station and
the elimination of grade-crossings in the District of Colimbia, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James H. Hayden for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward H. Thomas for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action of *sumpsit by plaintiff in error in the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Court of the District of Columbia to recover the sum of'
$7,172.97 claimed by it as the amount of unexpended
balances of three deposits made by it with the District
to cover the cost of certain work undertaken by the District for it.
The case was tried to a jury which, under the instructions of the Court, returned a verdict for the plaintiff in
the sum of $1,089.79, with interest, upon which judgment
was duly entered. The judgment was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals. We shall refer to plaintiff in error as
plaintiff and to the defendant in error as the District.
The controversy grows out of work required to be done
by certain acts of Congress for the elimination of grade
crossings on the line of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Company in the city of Washington, and requiring the
railroad company to depress and elevate its tracks, and
to enable it to relocate parts. of its railroad therein, and
for other purposes. Act of February 12, 1901, 31 Stat. 767,
c. 353. The scheme of improvement was quite extensive
and the act described in detail the changes to .be made in
the grades of streets in connection with the change of the
location of, the railroad company's tracks and station.
Section 9 of.the act -is the one with which we have most
concern. It provides as follows, omitting parts not essential to be quoted:
"S c. 9. That the entire cost and expenses of the revision, changes, relocations, and improvements
of and in
said railroad, as authorized and required.by the preceding
sections of this Act, and of all structures connected therewith or incidental thereto, shall be borne, paid, and defrayed Jn manner following, to wit: The said Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad Company shall bear, pay, and
defray all cost and expenses of reldcation, elevation, and
depression of its tracks within the limits- of its right of
way as are authorized and required by this- Act.
.
All other costs, expenses and damages resulting from, in-,,

N. Y. FILTRATION CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
223 U. S.

255

Opinion of the Court.

cidental to, or connected with the revisions, changes, and
improvements in alignment and grades of said railroad, or
the relocations thereof by this Act required and authorized and from changes in the grades of the streets or the
railroad . . . shall be borne, paid, and defrayed in
manner following,, to wit: Fifty per centum thereof by
the United States and the remaining fifty per centUm
thereof by the District of Columbia. .
All work
within the limits of said railroad company's right of
way . . . shall be done by said railroad company to
the satisfaction and approval of the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia, who are authorized to exercise such
supervision over the same as may be necessary to secure
the proper construction and maintenance of the said
work. And all work which is without the limits of the
right of way . . . shall be done by the District of
Columbia."
There were quite radical modifications of the plan for
the railroad terminal made by an act passed in 1903.
February 28, 1903, 32 Stat. 909, c. 856. Among other
things, it provided for the construction of tunnels. It is,
however, contended by plaintiff that the distribution of
the cost of the work, as provided in ยง 9 of the prior act,
was not changed. The Ditrict contends that the deposits
made by plaintiff were for work to be done by the latter,
and that the work which was done by it, the District, was
upon construction neither contemplated nor authorized
by the act of 1901, but was embraced in the new location
directed by the act of 1903, and was imposed by the latter
act upon the railroad company, and was done by the
plaintiff as agent of the railroad company.
In pursuance of the acts of Congress the railroad company prepared a plat of its proposed line, extending from
Second Street and Virginia Avenue southwest to First
Street and Massachusetts Avenue northeast. This embraced the change necessary to connect its tracks with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

new Union Station. The plat shows the course of the
tunnels in question. The railroad company engaged
plaintiff to construct the tunnels, and plaintiff proposed
to" the District that the District perform that portion of
the work involved in changing and relocating the sewers
and water mains.
The following letter was written by the Engineer Commissioner of the District to plaintiff:
"WASHINGTON,

July 22, 1903.

"The New York Continental Jewell Filtration Company,
New York, N. Y.:
"GENTLEMEN: Referring to our oral conversation of
July 16, in which you requested that the sewer and water
changes necessary on account of the construction of the
tunnel of the Pennsylvania R. R. Company, this city, be
made by this office, and the plat which you left with
me, I would state that the estimated cost of making the
changes in the sewers is $7,693.00, and of changes in water
mains is $488. Deposit slips for these amounts are herewith, and the deposits should be made separately, and
upon receipt of the deposits the work will be done by this
office. The Water Department made some modifications
of the plan suggested by you in the drawing which you
left, with the object of obtaining better circulation, and
the sewer division increases the size and slope of the proposed new portion of sewer. I return your suggested plan.
JOHN BIDDLE,
"Very respectfully,
"Major, Corps of Engineers, U. S. A.,
"Engineer Commissioner, D. C."
Subsequently letters were addressed to plaintiff containing estimates of necessary changes in the water mains
and sewers caused by the construction of the tunnel, respectively, $488 and $7,693, and stating. that if plaintiff
wished the District to do the work it should deposit those
amotnts with the Collector of Taxes of the District. The

N. Y. FILTRATION CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
223 U. S.

257

Opinion of the Court.

letters were dated, respectively, the twentieth and twentyfirst of July, 1903.
Theplaintiff accepted the District's offer to make the
changes upon making the deposit indicated.
There was another change requested by plaintiff. and

undertaken by the District, an estimate of which was
furnished and a deposit of the amount made by plaintiff.
On May 11, 1904, and after the completion of the work,
the plaintiff wrote a letter to the District, in which it
stated that it had deposited with the Collector of Taxes
of the District certain amounts for sewer changes and
water main changes "within the right of way" at certain
designated points, and asking for a statement of the work
and a return of the unexpended balances. Receiving no
reply, plaintiff addressed another letter to the District
of the same purport. There was other correspondence,
which need not be given, as it is agreed that plaintiff
had deposited $7,693 to cover the cost of changes in
sewers and the sums of $488 and $600 to cover the cost
of changes in water mains, that there was expended on
sewers within the right of 'way the sum of $1,565.41, and
on water mains, $42.62, total $1,608.03, which, being
deducted from the amount deposited by plaintiff, would
leave an unexpended balance of $7,172.97, if plaintiff's
contention be correct. If, on the other hand, the contention of the District be correct and plaintiff is chargeable
with cost of work done outside of the right of' way, there
would be a balance returnable of only $1,089.79.
The contention of the plaintiff 'is, as we have seen, that
the railroad company was only required to defray the cost
of work within the limits of its right of way and that plaintiff's obligation is not greater, as it only undertook to do
the Work for the railroad company. in other words,
plaintiff contends that the acts of 1901 and 1903 are the
test of the rights of the parties. The District contends,
on the other hand, that those acts d9 not control the case.
voL. ccxxii-17

.OCTOBER TERM,. 191L
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

The case made by the pleadings and the evidence, the
District insists, "is one of simple contract composed of
an offer or request by the plaintiff to the defendant, which
the defendant accepted and performed." It is further
urged by the District that if the acts of 1901 and 1903 can.
be regarded as pertinent, all of the parties, the District,
the plaintiff and the railroad, construed them in accordance With the contention of the District. It is urged
further that the act of 1901 contained no reference to
changes in. water mains and tunnels, and that the act of
1903 "imposed upon the railroad the obligation to do
the entire work, thus modifying the former act, and, in
return, provided for the payment of a large sum of money
to the railroad."
It is very certain that the act of 1903 introduced -new
features into the scheme provided for by the act of 1901
and gives support to tile contention of the District. It
was testified by the Assistant Engineer of the District
as follows: "The tunnel was not contemplated in the act
of 1901. It was built pursuant to the act of 1903, and
takes the place of the connection that would have been
made to the Sixth Street station, had that station remained, as contemplated by the act of 1901. There was
no tunnel at this point contemplated by the act of 1901."
But without dwelling further upon this contention, we
shall pass to the other contention of the District. The
declaration in the case alleges that plaintiff, "acting in
that behalf as the agent of the Philadelphia, Baltimore &
Washington Railroad Company, was engaged in constructing for said company certain tunnels at and about
the intersection of New Jersey Avenue and D Street,"
which the railroad company was required to construct
under the acts of Congress of 1901 and 1903.
It is alleged that the, construction of the tunnels made
necessary the change in the location of certain sewers
and water mains. That estimates were made by the Dis-

N. Y. FILTRATION- CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
223 U. S.

259

Opinion of the Court.

trict and notice given thereof to plaintiff conveying an
offer by it to make the changes, provided plaintiff would
deposit the. cost thereof with the District. That the
plaintiff did so upon the condition that the District would
use so much of the deposit as'would be necessary to make
the changes "which the railroad company Was required
to perform or pay for" and return whatever balances
there might be to plaintiff. The balances due are stated.
Issue was joined on the declaration by the District and
it set up besides affirmative matter of defense.
It will be observed that a contract between the plaintiff
and the District is alleged, and we are to inquire whether
it was established or whether some other contract was
established. The facts show that the company approached
the commissioners for the purpose of having the District
undertake the work, as will be seen by the letter of July 22,
1903, which we have quoted above, submitting a plan
of the work, which was changed somewhat by the Commissioners. The letter was addressed to plaintiff and
contained these significant words: "The estimated cost
to you for making the necessary changes in sewers caused
by the construction of tunnel N. J. Ave. and D Street,
S. E., is $7,693.00." In the other letters the same words
are used, as to water mains, the expense being stated at
$488 and $600.
Plaintiff contends that under the circumstances those
words were sufficient to cause it "to believe that the
District understood that the 'necessary changes' would
involve costs to be defrayed by the Government, or at
any rate some party other than the' company.." But
this could only be on the supposition that the act' of 1901
controlled and was 'thought by the District to control.
'The District thought otherwise-thought the act of 1903
controlled and required the work to be done at the expense of the railroad company and therefore by its agent,
the plaintiff, and, granting this -position could be disputed,

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

it nevertheless gives meaning to the language it used when
addressing plaintiff as undertaking the work and all of
the work, that outside and that within, of the railroad's
right of way. And we do not see how plaintiff could have
understood otherwise. If the words did not necessarily
of themselves point to plaintiff as the party to defray the
expense, the amount of the deposit required indicated
that it was to cover the work outside of the right of way.
The estimate of costs and deposits, required amounted
to $8,781.00, and yet it is admitted that the cost of the
work within the right of way or space covered by the
tunnels was only. $1,608.03. The difference is too great
to have been overlooked or its importance and meaning
misunderstood. It is attempted to be explained, but
inadequately. The necessity of the work was seen by
plaintiff's engineer in charge, and he also saw the work
going on daily outside of the right of .way. He explained
as follows: "We knew that the estimated amount was
excessive for that which was solely within the right of
way, but we considered that we were protected in the
matter by the law. I did not know the cost of taking out
64 feet of sewer and putting it back. I had no estimate
on it. I c 3nsider $7,693 for taking out 64 feet of sewer
an excessive amount. I did not know that it could be
done within $1,600. I made no estimate at all. I know
that the total estimate submitted was largely in excess of
the cost of work required within the right of way. .
It was largely in excess, 50 per cent or more, but I only
looked at it in a general way. I did not know it was
80 per cent more, and did not figure out the actual or
approximate cost."
We repeat the explanation is inadequate. An excess
of more than fifty per cent in an estimate of the work
within the right of way necessarily pointed to some other
work and plaintiff was called upon then to make objection
if it had any. If it had objected the District might have

JACOB v. ROBERTS.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

refused to deal with it and insisted upon the responsibility
of the railroad company. It is now in a different situation. This record does not show that the railroad company ever disputed its responsibility. Indeed there is
evidence which- makes the other way.
Judgment affirmed.

JACOB v. ROBERTS.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

CALIFORNIA.

No. 169.

Argued January 25, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

While an essential element of due pr6cess of law is opportunity to be
heard, a necessary condition of which is notice, Simon v. Craft, 182
U. S. 427, personal notice is not always necessary. Ballard v.
Hunier, 204 U. S. 241. In this case, held, that the proceedings for service by publication show
sufficient inquiry was made to ascertain the whereabouts of the
persons to be served and who were served by publication under
provisions of ยง 412 of the Code of Civil Procedure of California, and
that due process of law was not denied by service in that manner.
154 California, 307, affirmed.
THE

facts, which involve the question of whether due

process of law was afforded by substituted service of

process under the statutes of California, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Sam Ferry Smith, for plaintiffs in error:

The judgment was rendered in a proceeding, and constituted a proceeding, wherein the only service of process
made, or attempted to be made, was substituted or con-

structive.

Such service did not give reasonable and ade-

