670

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

erty is nought. This is not a matter of economic theory,
but of fair interpretation of a bargain. Neither extreme
can have been meant. A midway between them must be

hit.
In this case the court fixed a value on the plant that
considerably exceeded its cost and estimated that under
the ordinance the return would be over 6 per cent. Its
9ttitude was-fair and we do not feel called upon to follow
the plaintiff into a nice discussion of details. We perhaps
should have adopted a rule as to depreciation somewhat
more favorable to the plaintiff, or, it iay be, might have
allowed this or that item that the state court struck out,
but there is nothing of which we can take notice in the
case that could warrant us in changing the result or in
saying that the plaintiff did not get as much as it could
expect when leave was reserved for it to try again.
Decree affirmed.

WINGERT v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF
HAGERSTOWN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOtRTH CIRCUIT.
No. 176..

Argued February 29, 1912.-Decided March 11, 1912.

Afterfiling of a bill for injunction, defendants proceed at their peril,
and even if no preliminary injunction is issued, if they inflict actionable wrong upon the plaintiff, the bill can be retained for assessment
of damages; but if the only ground left for further prosecution is
costs, the appeal will be dismissed.
Where pending trial below and hearing of appeal the object unsuccessfully, sought to be enjoined has been accomplished-in this case the
erection of a building by a bank-the only ground left for further
prosecution is costs, and the appeal will be dismissed.

WINGERT v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

An action by a stockholder for injunction against a national bank and
its directors to restrain them from materially altering the bank
building will not be transmuted into an action for damages against
the directorsfor so doing; such an action will not lie.
Appeal from 175 Fed. Rep: 739; 99 C. C. A. 315, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the power of directors of a
national bank to alter its building against the protest of a
minority of its shareholders, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry F. Wingert, with whom Mr. Miller Wingert
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Charles A. Little and Mr. George R. Gaither for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HoLmEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill to restrain the defendants, a national bank,
its directors and a contractor employed by them, from
pulling down the bank building and erecting a six story
building in its place-the first floor to be used for banking
purposes, the other floors to be let for offices. The plaintiff is a holder of stock in the bank and alleges that the
intended construction is ultra tires, and commercially
unwise. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill on the
ground that in the absence of bad faith it would not revise
the judgment of the majority of the directors on the question of policy and that a national bank lAwfully might
turn its building to the best account by adding upper
stories for offices to let. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the decree on the opinion below. 175 Fed. Rep.
739. 99 C. C. A. 315. Pending the litigation the new
structure has been built.
Objections are interposed on both sides-on the part of
the defendant, to the right of a stockholder to prevent by
injunction acts beyond the power of the corporation, on

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

that of the plaintiff, to the reception of the bank's answer,
because it was adopted at a meeting of- which the plaintiff's brother, a protesting director, was not notified.
Without giving the slightest countenance to either it is
enough to say that the whole case is disposed of by the
erection of the new bank. No doubt after the filing of a
bill for an injunction defendants proceed at their peril
even though no injunction is issued, and, if they go on to
inflict an actionable wrong upon the plaintiff, will not be
allowed to defeat the jurisdiction of the court by their own
act. In such a case the bill will be retained for the assessment of damages. Milkman v. Ordway, 106 Massachusetts, 232, 253. Lewis v.'North Kingstown, 16 R. I. 15.
But in the present matter the only ground for further
prosecution of the case is costs. There are no damages
for which the plaintiff could make any claim, against the
corporation for doing as it saw fit with its own, lawfully or
unlawfully. Furthermore a recovery would be futile. It
would cost the plaintiff as much as it brought in. To
transmute the cause of action into a demand for damages
against the directors alone would be an essential change,
and probably would do the plaintiff no good, as it has been
held in well considered cases that that action also would
not lie. Smith v. Hurd, 12 Met. 371. Allen y. Curtis, 26
Connecticut, 456. As the appeal really is prosecuted only
for costs it must be dismissed. Union Paper-BagMachine
Co. v. Nixon, 105. U. S. 766. See Richardson v. McChesney,
218 U. S. 487. But we are far from intimating that the
plaintiff loses anything by this disposition of the case.
Brown v. Schleier, 118 Fed. Rep. 981.
Appeal dismissed.

