RE MERCHANTS' STOCK CO., PETITIONER.
223 U. S.

639

Syllabus.

IN RE MERCHANTS' STOCK AND GRAIN COMPANY ET AL., PETITIONERS.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 10, Original. Submitted December 11, 1911.-Decided March 4,
1912.
Where the Circuit Court enters an order requiring a party violating
an injunction order to pay a fine of which three-fourths is to go to
the complainant as compensation for expenses incurred in prosecuting the contempt proceedings, and one-fourth to the United States,
the punitive feature of the order is dominant and fixes its character
for purposes of review.
An order adjudging a party in contempt for violating an injunction is
remedial when its purpose is to indemnify the injured suitor, or
coercively to secure obedience to a mandate in his behalf, and is
punitive when its purpose is to vindicate the authority of the court.
Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418.
Whether contempt proceedings at the instance of the injured party,
resulting in the offending party being adjudged to pay a fine, a part
of which goes to the injured suitor and a part to the United States, is
erroneous in its entirety or only as to the portion of the fine going to
the United States, will not be determined on an application for
mandamus to compel the Circuit Court of Appeals to take jurisdiction of an appeal; the court will only determine whether the order is
reviewable.
If an order of the Circuit Court, adjudging defendant in contempt and
to pay a fine, is remedial, it is interlocutory, and only reviewable
upon appeal from the final decree; if, however, the order is punitive,
it is final and reviewable on writ of error and the Circuit Court of
Appeals should take jurisdiction. Matter of ChristensenEngineering
Co., 194 U. S. 458.
If the Circuit Court of Appeals refuses to take jurisdiction of a writ of
error to review an order of contempt made by the Circuit Court,
the punitive feature of which is dominant, the remedy is by writ of
mandamus from this court to compel the Circuit Court of Appeals
to take jurisdiction.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Mr. Chester H. Krum and Mr. Henry S. Priest for
petitioners.
Mr. Henry S. Robbins for respondents.
MR. JUS'TIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus commanding
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit to reinstate and take jurisdiction of a writ of error dismissed by
'it. The facts are these:.During the pendency, in a Circuit
Court of the United States, of a suit in equity to which
the petitioners were parties defendant, they were charged
by the complainant with having wilfully violated an interlocutory injunction theretofore granted'in the suit at
the instance and for the benefit of the complainant, and at
the hearing upon that complaint were by the court adjudged guilty of contempt of its authority and ordered
unconditionally to pay into its registry, within five days,
fines of $1,000, $2,000 and $500, respectively, each fine,
when paid, to go three-fourths to the complainant, "as
compensation in part for the expenses incurred in prosecuting these contempt proceedings," and one-fourth to
the United States. With the purpose of securing a review
of the order the petitiqners sued out a writ of error from
the Circuit Court Qf Appeals, and when the writ came on
for hearing that court dismissed it, upon the ground that
the order, rightly considered, was remedial, not punitive,
and was merely interlocutory and reviewable only upon
an appeal from the final decree. 187 Fed. Rep. 398.
We are not now concerned with whether the proceedings
resulting in the order were such as to admit of the imposition of punitive, as distinguished from compensatory,
fines, or whether, if the proceedings were not of that
character, the order was erroneous in its entirety or only

RE MERCHANTS' STOCK CO., PETITIONER. 641
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to so much of the fines as was to go to the United States;
and therefore we pass what is said in that connection in
the briefs and come at once to the only question presented
for decision, which is, whether the order was open to review upon a writ of error. The answer turns upon the
character of the order. If it was remedial, it was merely
interlocutory and reviewable only upon an appeal from
the final decree; but, if it was punitive, it was a final
judgment, criminal in its nature, and reviewable upon: a
writ of error, without awaiting the final decree. Such an
order against an offending suitor is deemed remedial when
its purpose is to indemniify the injured suitor or coercively
to secure obedience to a mandate in his behalf, and is
deemed punitive when its purpose is to vindicate the
authority of the court by punishing the act of disobedience
as a public wrong. As was said in Gompers v. Bucks
Stove. & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 441: "It is not the
fact of punishment but rather its character and purpose
that often serve to distinguish between the two classes
of cases." Aid again, p. 448: "The classification then
depends upon the question as to whether the punishment
is punitive, in vindication of the court's authority, or
whether it is remedial by way of a coercive imprisonment,
or a compensatory fine payable to the complainant."
Applications of this test are shown in several adjudged
cases in this court, among them being Worden v. Searls,
121 U. S.14; Doyle v. London Guarantee Co., 204 U.. S.
599; Ex parte Heller, 214 U. S. 501; Gompers v. Bucks
Stove & Range Co., suprd, and Matter of Christensen En:gineering Co., 194 U. S. 458. In the last case the defendant
in a suit in equity in a Circuit Court was found guilty of
contempt in disobeying an interlocutory injunction and
ordered to pay a fine of $1,000, one-half to go to the complainant and the other half to the United States. A writ
of error, whereby it was sought to have the order reviewed
in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
voL. ccxxIII-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

was dismissed by that court for the same reason that was
assigned for the dismissal in the present case. A petition
for a writ of mandamus, commanding the reinstatement
of the writ of error, was then presented to this court and,
upon full consideration of the prior cases, was held to be
well grounded. In that connection it was said (p. 460):
"These authorities show that when an order imposing
a fine for violation of an injunction is substantially one
to reimburse the party injured by the disobedience,
although called one in a contempt proceeding, it is to be
regarded as merely an interlocutory order, and to be
reviewed only on appeal from the final decree. In the
present case, however, the fine payable to the United
States was clearly punitive and in vindication of the
authority of the court, and, we think, 'as such it dominates the proceeding and fixes its character. Considered in
that aspect, the writ of error was justified, and the Circuit
ourt of Appeals should have taken jurisdiction."
That case differs from this only in that the portion of
the fine made punitive was there one-half, while here it is
one-fourth; but this, in our opinion, does not take this
case out of the principle applied in that, which is, that the
punitive feature of the order is dominant and fixes its
character for purposes of review.
We accordingly hold that the writ of error should be
reinstated, and, as it is evident from the return that this
will be done on the expression of our opinion, our order
will be,
Petitionersentitled to mandamus.

