OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

necessary the conclusion that it was the intention of
Congress in using the word braids not to adhere to the
then well-settled commercial and tariff meaning of the
term, but to use the word in a sense different from that

which was accepted for the purpose of renewing a conflict
as to the proper meaning of the word, which had been

flagrant under the prior act.

While these conclusions

need no reinforcement, their soundness is additionally
and cogently sustained by the construction given to the
act upon its adoption and the consequent administrative
enforcement of the same which prevailed without question
for so considerable a time.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
and that of the Circuit Court is affirmed; and the case is
remanded to the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.

JACOBS v. PRICHARD, TRUSTEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 93. Submitted December 8, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.
In allotting Indian lands, Congress can determine the conditions under
which they shall be alienated by the allottees, and titles resting on
deeds of Commissioners and consents of the allottees required by
the statute under which the lands were allotted are to be determined by the Federal statute, and not by the laws-of the States.
Under the act of March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 612, c. 209, and the amendatory act of June 7, 1897, 30 Stat. 62, c. 3, carrying out the treaty
with the Omaha Indians of 1854, the consent required to be given
to the Cdnmissioner for sale of land of allottee Indians in the
Puyallup Reservation in Washington was not a mere power to sell

JACOBS v. PRICHARD.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

which terminated with the death of the giver, but an agreement
which continued in force after death.
The rule that where ambiguity exists courts will follow the construction placed on a statute by the Department charged with its execution is strengthened where the statute itself directs such Department to make the necessary regulations to carry it into effect.
Habits of Indian life will be considered in construing a statute providing methods for a sale of Indian lands, and it will not be presumed
that Congress would insert therein a condition which defeats an
approved sale by the death of a roving Indian before the delivery
of the deed.
46 Washington, 562, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the title to lands in the Puyallup Indian Reservation allotted under the treaty with
the'Omaha Indians and the acts of March 3, 1893, and
June 7, 1897, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. H. Doolittle, with whom Mr. E. D. Wilcox and
Mr. Jesse Thomas were on the brief, for plaintiffs in errort
It is immaterial in this case whether or not *tJeDepartment has construed the so-called consent to b'd something
more than a naked power to sell, -as this is a question of
law, and not of fact, and while the findings of the Department of the Interior, especially the Land Departmdnt
and its various branches, are held to be binding on questions of fact, no such rule can be found as to questions of
law on rulings made by officers of the departments of the
Government. Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Marquez v.
Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473; Shepley v. Cowen, 91 -U. S. 330;
Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Quimby v. Conlan, 104
U. S. 420.
The regulation of a department of the Government is
not to control the construction of an act of Congress when
its-meaning is plain. Robertson V.Downing, 127 U. S. 402.
Even if there was trust created in the commission to sell
this land, it is not a trust coupled with an interest, and it
would not survive.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

223. U. S.

The Indians gave up their claims to other land and took
this in payment, and after the issuance of the patent to an
individual, it was his absolutely and for value given.
Lykins v. McGrath, 184 U. S. 169.
The consent was a naked power to sell, and, where, as
in the case at bar; no sale was made during the period of
ownership by the giver of the consent, the power terminated. The title to the land had passed from the United
States by its patent and the commissioners were only
agents of the Indian to sell the land. No sale having been
made there was nothing to continue in force after death,
as the land, after the death of the allottee, was the property of another. Under the act of Congress of 1887, 24
Stats. 388, the laws of the State of Washington govern
the descent of this land. See Session Laws of 1895, ยง 1,
p. 197.
As to the construction of the acts of 1893 and of 1897
in their application to the Puyallup Indians and their
lands, se .,United States v. Kopp, 110 Fed. Rep. 160;
Goudy v. "Meath, 38 Wisconsin, 129, aff'd in Goudy v.
Meath, 203 U. S. 146; Wa-la-note-tke-tying v. Carter, 53
Pac. Rep. 106; Re Huff, 197 U. S. 488.
After the death of the parents in order to divest these
heirs of their title to the land one of two things must
appear: First, that the plaintiffs in error, having power
to do so, have conveyed the land; which it is nowhere
claimed they have done; or second, that the paper executed gave some right or authority to the commissioner
that survived the giver. The instrument of March 7,
1898, is of no greater power or authority than an ordinary
power of attorney, and is subject to the same rules and
restrictions. Hunt v. Rousmanier's Admstrs., 8 Wheat.
174.
The power of an agent ceases on the death of his principal. If an act of ageucy be done, subsequent to the
decease of the principal, though his death be unknown, to

JACOBS v. PRICHARD.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the agent, the act is void. Glat v. Galloway, 4 Peters, 332;
McCasky v. Barr, 50 Fed. Rep. 712; Frink v. Roe, 70
California, 296; Staples v, Broadbury, 8 Maine, 181;
Story on Agency, ยง 489; Norton v. Sjolseth, 43 Washing;
ton, 327.
Even if there had been a trust imposed upon the commissioner by consent, it was revoked by the death of
Charley Jacobs prior to its execution. Harmon v. Smith,
38 Fed. Rep. 482; 4 Kent's Comm. 310 and note; Gartland
v. Nunn, 11 Arkansas, 720; Bradstreet v. Kinsella, 76
Missouri, 63; 28 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law (2d ed.), 1000.
The Secretary of the Interior has no judicial power to
adjudge a forfeiture, to decide questions of inheritance or
to divest the owner of his title without his knowledge or
consent. Richardville v. Thorp, 28 Fed. Rep. 52; Jones
v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1.
To allow the construction contended for by respondent,
means that the property. of plaintiffs in error will be taken
from them without due process of law, and contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Plaintiffs in error have been vested with the title by
descent from their ancestors and cannot be divested of the
title without being made personally parties to the proceeding.
The record does not show a long continued construction
of this consent or that it has become a rule of property, or
that there is any title involved, except that in this case.
This is the first time the matter, has ever been before any
court.
Defendant in error made no inquiry or investigation
before his purchase, but relied wholly upon the regularity
Usf the proceedings..
The act of March 3, 1893, is in derogation of the usual
and ordinary rights of citizens, and it will not be enlarged,
but will rather be limited and strictly construed by the
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

Mr. Stanton Warburton, with whom Mr. Overton G.
Ellis and Mr. John D. Fletcher were on the brief, for de-,
fendant in error:
The allottees named in the patent from the United
States took a base or qualified fee simple title subject to
temporary restrictions on the right of alienation as held
by the Supreme Court of the State of Washington in
passing upon a similar patent. Guyatt v. Kautz, 41
Washington, 115.
The question here presented for determination is not
what title Charley Jacobs took as head of a family under
the patent; but what was the nature and effect of the
written agreement of consent executed by the allottees
on March 7, 1898 to the commissioner, appointing him
trustee to sell the land in question under the provisions of
the acts of March 3, 1893, and June 7, 1897. The act of
June 7, 1897, is in all respects similar to the act of March 3,
1893, except that it reduces the number of commissioners
to one instead of three. The act of March 3, 1893, does
not contemplate the execution of successive agreements of
consent; its terms were complied with by the execution of
the one agreement of consent provided for in said act,
by the original allottees.
The United States was not under any obligations to
patent these lands to the Indians. Its determination so
to do was voluntary and was an act of gratuity. It therefore had the power to place any condition it might see fit
in the grant. Eells v. Ross, 64 Fed. Rep. 417, 421.
The restriction of alienation was a valid restriction, in
no wise inconsistent either with the estate granted or with
the citizenship of the Indian. It was so held in Smythe
v. Henry, 41 Fed. Rep. 705; Libby v. Clark, 118 U. S.
250.
The patent issued on January 30, 1886, prohibited,
absolutely, alienation for a longer period than two years.
Congress, in pursuance of the power reserved in the

JACOBS v. PRICHARD.
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

patent itself, did, by the act of March 3, 1893, confer the
power of alienation and prescribe the manner of its exercise. The Government had reserved this power in the
patent itself, and the courts have no authority to invoke
any technical rules of conveyancing to change or modify
the manner in said act provided. Smythe v. Henry, 41
Fed. Rep. 705.
The Department of the Interior has universally, in all
its dealings with the Puyallup Indians and these Indian
lands, construed the act in this manner. See letter of
July 2, 1897, to Clinton A. Snowden, which contains a
clear statement of the construction of the Department as
to the meaning of this act, and the court should be slow
to adopt a different construction when the terms of the
statute warrant the construction given it by the Department.
Where a statute entrusted the carrying out of its own
provisions to one of the Executive Departments of the
Government, the interpretation of the statute by such
department will be followed by the courts unless there are
most cogent reasons to the contrary. Prichardv. Jacobs,
46 Washington, 562, 570; United States v. Moore, 95 U. S.
760, 764; Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206; Brown v.
United States, 113 U. S. 568, 574; Louisianav. Garfield, 211
U. S. 70, 78; Robertson v. Downing, 127 U. S. 607, 614;
United States v. State Bank, 6 Peters, 29, 40.
In all cases of ambiguity the contemporaneous construction not only of the courts but of the departments, and
even of the officials whose duty it is to carry the law into
effect, is universally held to be controlling. Schell v.
Fauche, 138 U. S.562, 573; United-States v. Cerecedo, 209
U. S.337; Hastings & Dakota R. Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S.
357, 366; United States v. Burlington R. R. Co., 96 U. S.
334; United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, 272; Hahn v.
United States, 107 U. S. 402, 406; *Smythe v. Fiske, 23
Wall. 374, 383; United States v. Johnson, 124 U. S.236, 255;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
โข Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S:

United States v. Finnell, 185 U. S. 236, 254; United States
v. Alabama R. R. Co., 142 U. S. 615, 622; United States v.
Philbrick, 120'U. S. 52, 59; Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299,
309.

State courts have likewise foilowed this same rule in
construing statutes. McSorley v. Hill, 2 Washington,
638, 651; Keane v. Brygger, 3 Washington, 338, 350;
Sutherland, Stat. Conjt. (2d ed.), ยง 474; Smith v. Ross, 42
Washington, 439, 445; Blair v. Brown, 17 Washington,.
570, 573.
The, Supreme Court of Wisconsin holds that a uniform
construction by the department to which an act is referred for the carrying out of its provisions will be followed
.y the courts even when the courts would not have so
construed the act in the first instance. Herrington v.
Smith, 28 Wisconsin, 68; Bloxham v. Electric Light (Fla.),
18 So. Rep. 444; Copper Queen Mining Co. v. Arizona, 84
Pac. Rep. 511, 516; Van Veen v. Graham County, 108 Pac.
Rep. (Ariz.) 252.
The land was sold for its fair value. The purchaser
has paid the price. The Department has examined and
approved all steps leading up to the deed, and the purchaser took his deed relying upon the Department, to
which the act itself entrusted the execution of its provisions,: as having done its duty in the premises. The purposes of the act have been fully met; viz.: the protection of
the Indians. from improvident sales.

It makes no difference that Charley Jacobs was a citizen of the United States. There is no authority for the
contention that a citizen cannot hold a base or qualified
title. There is ample authority for the converse. Beck v.
Flouiney Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 30, 35; Eells v. Ross, 64 Fed.
Rep. 417, 421; Smythe v. Henry, 41 Fed. Rep. 705; United
States v. Flourney Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 576, 579.

The authorities relied upon by the plaintiffs in error are
not applicable.

Guyatt'v. Kautz, 41 Washington, 115;

JACOBS v. PRICHARD.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Pickeringv. Lomax, 145 U. S. 310, 316; Lykins v. McGrath,
184 U. S. 169.
The fact that this land has advanced in value since the
sale, is no reason whatever for now seeking to so construe
the statute as to invalidate the title of the defendant in
error.
Since the decision in the case at bar, theoSupreme Court
of the State of Washington has passed upon the same
question, and followed this decision in the case, of Little
Bill v. Swanson, 117 Pac. Rep. 481; Little Bill v. Dyslin,
117 Pac. Rep. 487.
See also on question of Indian lands and the government
supervision over the same, Cherokee'Nation v. Hitchcock,,
187 U. S. 294; Starr v. Campbell, 208 U. S.527; Marquez v.
Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Error to the Supreme Court of Washington to review
a decree of that court which affirmed a decree' of the
Superior Court of the County of Pierce adjudging defendant in error, who Was plaintiff in the trial court, to be the
owner of the east half and the e~st half of the east half of
the west half of .tie northeast quarter of the northwest
,quarter of section 35, township 21 N., R. 3 east'of the Wil-lamette.Meridian, Pierce County, Washington, formerly
in King County, Washington..
The land lies in the Puyallup Indian Reservation and
was allotted or patented by the United:States on January 30, 1886, to Charley Jacobs, the head of a family
consisting of himself,' Julia, Annie, Frank and' Oscar, all
Puyallup Indians, the allotment or'patent being subject
to the stipulations and conditions contained: in -Art. ,6of
the treaty of the United States with the Omaha Indians.
Plaintiffs in error, were not named in the patent, they
not then being born.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Defendant in error claims title under a deed dated February 27, 1901, from C. A. Snowden, trustee and conmmissioner of Puyallup lands, appointed by the United States
Government under an act of Congress dated March 3,
1893 (27 Stat. 612, c. 209), and an amendatory act passed
June 7, 1897 (30 Stat. 62, c. 3).
Plaintiffs in error claim title to an undivided one-third
part of the lands as heirs of Charley and Julia Jacobs,
deceased, and contend that the deed from Snowden is
void as tb them or as to the interest they would take as,
such heirs for the reason that the Snowden sale and deed
were after the death of Charley and Julia Jacobs.
Article 6 of the treaty of the United States with the
Omaha Indians (March 16, 1854, 10 Stat. 1043), to the
conditions of which the patent to Charley Jacobs was
made subject, empowered the President to cause allotments to be made from reservation lands to such Indians
as were willing to avail themselves of the privilege and
who would locate on the same as permanent homes. The
patent was to be issued upon -the further condition that
the assigned land should not "be. aliened or leased for. a
longer term than two years" and "should be exempt
from levy, sale or forfeiture." Upon the formation of a
State these restrictions could be removed by the legislature, but it was provided that they could not be removed
without the consent of Congress. It was -also provided
that lands. not necessary for assignment might be sold
'for the benefit of the Indians under such rules and regulations as might thereafter be prescribed by Congress. or

the President of the United States.
Under the act of March 3, 1893, the President was
empowered to appoint a commission of three persons to
select and appraise such portion of the allotted lands not
required for homes of the Indian allottees. It was. provided that if the Secretary of the Interior- approved the
selections and the appraisement the lands selected should

JACOBS v. PRICHARD.
.223 U. S.

209

Opinion of the Court.

be sold for the benefit of the allottees, after due notice,
at public auction, at no less than the appraised value.
It was the duty of the commission to superintend the
sale of the lands, ascertain the true owners thereof, and
have guardians appointed for minor heirs of deceased allottees and make. deeds of the lands to the . purchasers
thereof, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
-Interior. The deeds, it was piovided, should operate as
a complete conveyance of the lands upon a full payment
of the purchase money. The disposition of the money
was provided for, and it was provided further that no
part of the lands should be offered for sale until the Indian
or Indians -entitled to the same should sign. a written
agreement consenting to the sale thereof, and appointing
the commissioners, or a majority of them, trustees to sell
the land and make deeds to the purchasers. 'The approval of the Secretary was made necessary to the validity
of the deeds, and he was directed to make all-necessary
regulations to carry out the provisions of the act.
On November 6, 1893, the Secretary instructed the
commissioners, in accordance with the terms of the act
as to the appraisement of the lands, and to ascertain who
were allottees or the heirs, of allottees or heads of families
under the laws of Washington, to have guardians appointed for the minor heirs of deceased allottees and to
obtain the consent of the heirs of twenty-one years and
of such guardians. The commissioners were directed to
report to the Secretary their action for approval, and, if
approved, further instructions were to be given.
Byan act subsequent to that of March 3, 1893, to-wit,
an act of June 7, 1897, the number of commissioners
was reduced to one and Clinton A. Snowden was appointed commissioner. Instructions were given to him
and he was informed as follows: "That the title under
these patents vests in the family whose names are recited
in the patent, and not in the head of the family.- It is
VOL.. ccxxi-14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

necessary to obtain the written consent of all the members
of the family named in the patent. That it is necessary
to have legal guardians appointed for minors who are
themselves allottees, but not minor heirs' of deceased
allottees. It is necessary to obtain the written consent
of sale of allotments of all members of the family named
in the patent, and natural guardians and parents of minors
are incompetent for this purpose, as in the case of minor
heirs of .deceased allottees."
On January 18, 1901, in answer to an inquiry of Snowden, the Secretary instructed him that where the allottees.
and true owners of the lands had executed consents of sale
which had been approved by the Secretary it was the
practice of the Department to continue the sale of the
lands. covered thereby, though the allottee or owner died,
and to distribute the funds arising, therefrom to his or her
2heirs, the Department regarding the "consents as remaining in full force and effect upon the decease of the Indian
executing the same," they being "in the nature of an agreement or contract to be carried out for the sole benefit of
his heirs in case of his decease." The Secretary added:
"These lands are sold under the provision of the Act of
Congress, March 3, 1893, and not under the laws of the
State of Washington.

.

.

. It is for the Department-

to pass upon the sufficiency of consents and not the courts
of the State of Washington."
Charley Jacobs was, as we have seen, the grantee in the
patent as the head of a family consisting of himself, Julia,
Annie, Frank and Oscar. Julia was his wife, Annie his
sister, Frank his son by a former wife, and Oscar his son
by his wife, Julia.
Lillie Jacobs and Ruther Jacobs, plaintiffs in error, are..
respectively, a daughter and son of Charley and Julia and
were born, respectively, in the years 1888 and 1891--that
is, after the patent Wa issued-and necessarily were not.
named therein..

JACOBS v. PRICHARD.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Annie, who was named in the patent, died in November, 1888, never having been married, and 4eaving Charley
Jacobs her sole heir. He, on the seventh of March, 1898,
JuliaJacobs and Frank Jacobs, all of age and named in the
patent, executed a written consent required by the statute
directing Commissioner Snowden to sell 'thelands.
Charley Jacobs, as guardian of Oscar Jacobs, named. in
the patent, having been previously appointed by the
Superior Court of Pierce County, executed a similar consent and also a similar consent as thesole heir of Annie,
named in the patent.
These consents and other papers were duly transmitted
to the Secretary of the Interior and approved by him,
and Snowden, on the twenty-seventh of February, 1901;
duly offered the lands for sale at public auction. They
were purchased by A. G. Prichard, trustee, in accordance
with the statute, he making the payment required. Snowden executed a deed to him, which was duly approved by
the .Secretary of the Interior, and duly recorded in the
Office of Indian Affairs.
Prior to the commencement of this action Prichard
made the payments required, which were received and
accepted by the, Interior Department for distribution to
those entitled to the same, including Ruther Jacobs and
Lillie Jacobs,. plaintiffs in error.

Their .guardian, E. D.

Wilcox, has not received the same and refused to accept
the sum, except a cash payment of $420.
Charley J~cobs died January 2, 1900, leaving surviving
him, among others the plaintiffs in error, who, as we have
said, were not 'famed in the patent.- His death was reported to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs by Snowden
May 1, 1900.
Wilcox is the duly appointed guardian of plaintiffs in
error, andreported to the court the receipt by him of the
payment of; $420 made by Prichard. He did not know,
"owever, that the sale-by Snowden was after the death of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Charley Jacobs, father of plaintiffs in error, until after the
commencement of this suit, and, as soon as he discovered
that fact, refused to receive any further payment. The
money received by plaintiffs in error as their share of the
purchase price of the land was tendered to defendant in
error prior to the trial of the action.
At the time Prichard, defendant in error, purchased the
land he did not know of the death of Charley Jacobs, and
'was at no time advised of it or of the existence of plaintiffs
in error until shortly before bringing this action. He purchased the property in good faith, relying upon the representations of Snowden, and in the full belief of the
regularity of the proceedings.
We have stated the facts thus fully, although they are
not disputed, as they exhibit clearly upon what right the
Secretary of the Interior. proceeded in his instructions to
Commissioner Snowden and the strict compliance of the
latter with those instructions. It will be observed that
where the allottees and true owners executed consents
which had been approved by the Secretary, it was the
practice of the Department to continue the sale of the
lands covered thereby, though the allottee or owner died,
and to distibute the funds arising therefrom to his or her
heirs, the Department regarding the "consents as remaining.in full force upon the decease of the Indian executing
the same," they being "in the nature of an agreement or
contract to be carried out for the sole benefit of his heirs
in case of his decease." The Secretary expressed the view
that the "lands are sold under the provisions of the act
of Congress, March 3, 1893, and not under the laws of
Washington. .. ... It is for the department to pass
upon the sufficiency of consents and not the courts of
Washington."
Defendant in error takes the view that the consents
remained good after the decease of the Indian who gave
them, in this case Charley Jacobs, and was "in the nature

JACOBS v. PRICHARD.
223 U. S.

213

Opinion of the Court.

of a permanent power or trusteeship." On the other hand,
plaintiffs in error contend that the consent was a "naked
power to sell," and terminated with the death of the
giver.
There can be no doubt of the power of"Congress to give
character to the consents. United States ex rel. Lowe v.
Fisher,ante, p. 95; The Cherokee Nation et al. v. Whitmire,
Trustee, ante, p. 108. The questions in the case, therefore,.
turn upon the statute, and both sides invoke it to sustain
their respective contentions.
The patent to Charley Jacobs was made subject to the
conditions and restrictions of the sixth article of the treaty.
In other words, there was a limitation upon the right of
alienation of the patented- lands, and the ultimate power
to remove this restriction and grant a right of full alienation was reserved to Congress. The act of 1893 was an
'exercise of this power. It provided for the sale of such
part of the allotted lands as was not'required for the
homes of the Indians, and prescribed the conditions of the
sale to be 'a written agreement' consenting to the sale,"
signed by the Indian or Indians entitled to the allotted
land offered for sale. And it was provided further that
the agreement should constitute the Commissioners, or a
majority of them (subsequently one commissioner), trus,tees to sell the lands and "make deeds to the purchasers for
the same," subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, which deeds should "operate as a complete conveyance of the land upon the full payment of the purchase
money." It is manifest that the "consent" required
created something more than a mere revocable agency.
It was a written agreement giving the commissioner (we
drop the plural) full power to execute the provision and
policy of the act of Congress, a power which could be confidently counted on as continuing against contingencies,
and to terminate in a "complete conveyance of the land."
That the "consent" was to have this character was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court..

223 U. S.

immediate and continued construction of the act of Congress by the Interior Department, and such construction

would determine against ambiguity in the act even if we
should admit ambiguity existed. The rule which gives
strength to the construction of the officers who are directed
to execute the law and who, it has been said, may have
written or suggested it, is given an added force from one
,of the provisions of the act of Congress. It directs the
Secretary of the Interior "to make the necessary regulations to carry out the purposes" of its enactment.
. But we find no ambiguity in the act when we consider
its purpose and the habits of Indian life. It could not have
been intended that when proceedings had been instituted
under it they should be embarrassed always by the possi*bility of defeat, and, it may be, progressing up to the
moment of the delivery of the deed to a purchaser, should
be made useless and nugatory by the death of some roving Indian. It is to be noted that all the proceedings are
under the control of the Secretary of the Interior and that
any irregularity in them or improvidence in the consents
can be corrected by him.
We do not answer in detail'the argument of plaintiffs
in error based on the law of agency because we do not
think its analogies are applicable to the situation.
The Supreme Court of- Washington has repeated its
ruling in this case in two others, Li tle Bill V. Swanson,
117 Pac. Rep. 481; Same v. Dyslin, Id.. 487.
Judgment affirmed.

