GALVESTON, H. & S. A. RY. CO. v. WALLACE. 481
223 U.S.

Syllabus.

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG AND SAN ANTONIO
RAILWAY COMPANY v. WALLACE.
SAME v. CROW.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

Nos. 108, 109. Submitted December 15, 1911.-Decided February 19,1912.
Damages caused by failure to deliver goods is not traceable to a violation of the Interstate Commerce Law, and is not within the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of the act; the jurisdiction of the commission
and the United States courts is not exclusive. Texas & Pacific Railway v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, distinguished.
While statutes have no extra-territorial operation and courts of one
government cannot enforce the penal laws of another, state courts
have jurisdiction of civil and transitory actions created by a foreign
statute, provided it is not of a character opposed to the public policy
of the State in which it is brought.
Jurisdiction is not defeated by implication; and there is no presumption that Congress intends to prevent state courts from exercising
jurisdiction already possessed by them, and under which they have
power to hear and det..rmine causes of action created by Federal
statute. Robb v. Conrolly, 111 U. S. 637.
When a Federal statute creating an action, such as the Carmack
amendment, is silent on the subject of jurisdiction, the presumption is that the action may be asserted in a state, as well as in a
Federal, court.
The Carmack amendment to the Hepburn act of June 29, 1906, 34
Stat. 584, 595, c. 3591, is not unconstitutional. Atlantic Coast Line
v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186.
Quwre, and not determinable in this action, as the carrier failed to
plead or prove the cause of non-delivery, whether the Carmack
amendment makes the initial carrier an insurer, or deprives it of
the right to contract with the shipper against liability for damages
not caused by its own or the connecting carrier's negligence.
Under the Carmack amendment, wherever the carrier voluntarily
accepts goods for shipment to a point on another line in anothek

VOL. ccxxIii-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

223 U. S.

State, it is conclusively treated as having made a through contract,
Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186; it thereby
elects to treat connecting carriers as its agents and the presumptions
are that if goods are lost the loss results from the negligence of itself
or of its agents.
Under the Carmack amendment, when a carrier accepts goods for
shipment to a point on another line in another State, the burden of
proof falls on it as the initial carrier to prove that the loss has not
resulted from some cause for which it is in law or by contract responsible.

THE facts, which involve the liability of an initial common carrier for non-delivery of goods by the connecting
carrier, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts and Mr. James L. Bishop for plaintiffs in error:
Plaintiff in error does not attempt to reargue Atlantic
Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, but contends
that the Carmack amendment did not impose upon the
initial carrier the obligation of an insurer of the safe delivery of the goods at destination.
There was no evidence that the loss was caused by the
initial carrier or by any connecting carrier unless the mere
failure to deliver was evidence that the loss was not
caused by a third person. This cannot be so, unless the
carrier contracted for, or the statute imposed, the obligation of an insurer of safe delivery at destination. Matter
of Release Rates, 13 I. C. C. R., 550; Bernard v. Adams
Express Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254.
The statute does not include the liability of an insurer
against loss, for which the common carrier is not culpably
chargeable. It does not restrict the right of an express
company to stipulate as to the value of goods and to
limit its liability to the value agreed upon. Travis v.
Wells, Fargo & Company, 74 Atl. Rep. 444; Wright v.
Adams Express Company, 43 Pa. Supr. Ct. 40; and see
Latta v. Chic., St. P., M. & 0. R,; 172 Fed. Rep. 850.

GALVESTON, H. & S. A. RY. CO. v. WALLACE. 483
.223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

By accepting the goods for transportation the defendant
did not assume a contractual obligation to deliver the
goods at final destination. Muscamp v. Lancaster & P.
R. R. Co., 8 Mees. & W. 421; Hutchinson on Carriers,
§§ 228 et seq. The statute does not attempt to make a receipt or bill of lading conclusive evidence of a contract for
through carriage. If it had attempted to do so, it may
well be doubted whether the attempt would have been
legal. Chicago R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Howard
v. Moot, 64 N. Y. 262-268; Meyer v. Berlandi, 39 Minnesota, 438; Railway Co. v. Simonson, 64 Kansas, 802; Wigmore on Evidence, § 1354.
The common law imposes upon the carrier the obligation to receive and carry the goods tendered to it for
transportation over its own line even though marked 'for
a destination beyond its own line. United States v. Geddes,
131 Fed. Rep. 452, 458.
This is the law in Texas and in other States. Inman v.
St. Louis S. W. R. R., 14 Tex. Civ. App. 39; Seasongood
v. Tennessee 0. R. Company, 21 Ky. L. R. 1142; and the
performance of this duty may be compelled by mandamus.
So. Ex. Co. v. R. M. Rose Co., 124 Georgia, 581.
The common law also imposes upon the carrier the
duty of delivery of the goods to the succeeding carrier,
where they are received for transportation to a point beyond the initial carrier's line. Michigan Cent. R. R. Co..
v. Mineral Springs Mfg. Co., 16 Wall. 318; Tift v. Southern
Railroad, 123 Fed. Rep. 789; Rawson v. Holland, 59 N. Y.
611. This is an obligation from which the carrier cannot
release himself. Public policy, however, requires that the
rule should be enforced.
These obligations of the common law are made statutory as to interstate commerce by the provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Law.
Since the initial carrier was under the legal obligation
to receive and carry the goods over its own line, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

223 U. S.

marked to a destination in another State, and was likewise under the legal obligation to deliver the goods to the
succeeding carrier, no inference can be drawn from the
mere receipt of the goods that the railroad company intended to contract to carry the goods to destination,
because of the existence upon the statute book of the
Carmack amendment. Its act was not voluntary, but
compulsory, and therefore there can be found no element
of intention of adopting the statute as a condition of
entering into the employment.
The railroad company when this bill of lading was
issued claimed the statute was unconstitutional, and a
statute claimed to be unconstitutional will not be regarded as inserted in the contract by implication. Cleveland v. Clements Bros. Cons. Co., 65 N. E. Rep. 885; S. C.,
59 L. R. A. 775; Palmer v. Tingley, 45 N. E. Rep. 313.
The mere failure of the last connecting carrier to deliver the goods at destination was not evidence of a loss
of the goods caused by the initial carrier or a connecting
carrier.
To recover upon astatutory liability, the plaintiff must
allege and prove each of the facts essential to establish
such statutory liability. 31 Cyc.; Richs v. Reed, 19 California, 551; Blake v. Russell, 77 Maine, 492; Hale v. Miss.
P. R. Co., 36 Nebraska, 266; Hall v. Palmer, 54 Michigan,
217.
In the Riverside Mills Case, it was conceded that the
loss of the goods was due to the negligence of the connecting carrier.
The statute as construed and enforced by the Texas
courts is unconstitutional because it deprives the defendant .of its property without due process of law. It has
boen held liable not by reason of any fault of its own or
the connecting carrier, but as an insurer of the safe delivery of the goods at a destination beyond its line to
which it had not contracted for transportation.

GALVESTON, H. & S. A. RY. CO. v. WALLACE. 485
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The act is unconstitutional because it requires the initial carrier to answer for a wrong done by a connecting
carrier for whose act it is in no way responsible, since it is
quite impossible that the statute could constitutionally
make the connecting carrier the agent of the initial carrier
against the will of the latter, and then on the theory of
such agency hold it liable for wrongful act of the connecting carrier.
Congress cannot, without violating the Fifth Amendment, nor can any state legislature, without violating the
Fourteenth Amendment, take the property of one person
and give it to another, nor can either legislative body effect
this by establishing forms of- law with or without notice.
Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627, 658; Taylor v. Porter, 4
Hill, 140; Westervelt v. Gregg, 2 N. Y. 202, 212; Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U. S. 369, 390; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v.
Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132; Smythe v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466; Howard v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 463.
Nor can this legislation be sustained under the commerce clause. The Constitution was intended to establish a harmonious system by which no power was lodged
in any department of the Government which could be
exercised to the subversion of civil liberty.
That power, like all others vested in Congress, is subject
to the limitations prescribed in the Constitution. Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 196; Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S.310; Employers' Liability Cases,
207 U. S.463, 502; Hoxie v. N. Y. & N. H-. R. Co., 82 Connecticut, 356.
The right to engage in commerce between the States is
not a right created by or under the 'Constitution of the
United States. It existed long before the Constitution
was adopted. It was expressly guaranteed to the free
inhabitants of each State by Art. IV of the Articles of
Confederation, and impliedly guaranteed by Art. IV, § 2,
of the Constitution of the United States as a privilege

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

223 U. S.

inherent in American citizenship. Slaughter House Cases,
16 Wall. 36, 75; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 211; Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35; Lottery Cases, 188 U. S. 321,
362; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 502.
This case is governed by the same rules as apply to
cases in which it has been held that state legislation imposing rates of tariff confiscatory in character, violate the
constitutional requirement of due process of law as invading property rights. Smythe v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Lake
Shore .& M. S. R. R. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 685; Cherokee
Nation v. Southern Kansas Railway Co., 143 U. S. 641;
Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, 301.
A corporation is a person within the protection of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R.
Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26. Although it is under governmental control, that control must be exercised with due
regard to constitutional guarantees for the protection of
its property. Chicago Street Railway v. Chicago, 142
Fed. Rep. 845. It cannot be said that the connecting
carrier is in some sense associated with the said initial
carrier because a through rate of freight was stipulated,
and theiefore the initial carrier may be made liable for
a loss occurring on the line of a connecting carrier. A
through rate does not necessarily indicate an agreement
for a through carriage, and if it did, then the liability of
the initial carrier would rest upon his obligation by contract as a carrier over the entire route to destination. It
Would rest upon the initial carrier's contract and not upon
the statute. Penn. Ref. Co. v. West N. Y. & P. R. R. Co.,
208 U. S. 208, 222; Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Osborn, 52
Fed. Rep. 912.
The joint liability must result from some contract or
agreement which would constitute them joint contractors
or partners. Wilson v. L. & N. R. Co., 103 N. Y. App.
Div. 203.
The remedy attempted to be giveli by the statute to

GALVESTON, H. & S. A. RY. CO. v. WALLACE. 487
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the initial carrier against a connecting carrier in case of
payment of loss is unconstitutional and therefore the
statute is wholly void. Warren v. Charleston, 2 Gray, 84;
Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 158 U. S. 634, 636;
Howard v. The Illinois Cent. R. R., 207 U. S. 461; The
Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; and see InternationalT.
B. Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 113; Smeltzer v. St. Louis & S.
F. R. Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 660.
If the railroad company came under any obligation to
the shipper for the through carriage of the goods, then
the court erred in excluding the defense of the release by
the shipper of the railroad company from liability for loss
or injury to the goods not occasioned by its own negligence or that of a connecting carrier.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has expressed
the opinion that under this statute a stipulation for exemption from liability for losses due to causes beyond the
carrier's control is grounded upon a construction of the
words of the statute "caused by it or the connecting
carrier."
This construction of the statute was also adopted in
Greenwald v. Weir, 130 N. Y. App. Div. 696.
If this be the true construction of the statute, the court
erred in excluding this defense, and this presents a Federal
question because the defense was ruled out as being in
contravention of the act of Congress of June, 1906.
The court below erred in refusing to give effect to the
stipulation of the contract making the measure of damages the value and price of the articles at the place and
time of shipment.
The stipulation that in the event of loss the amount of
damages recoverable shall be the market value of the
goods at the place and time of shipment, if freely and
fairly entered into is valid, although the courts in Texas
hold that such a provision is invalid so far as it affects the
company's liability for a loss caused by negligence. South-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

ern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Maddox, 75 Texas, 300. This question, being one of general commercial law and not governed by statute, this court will be governed by its own
decisions and the reasons which control its action. Michigan Cent. Ry. v. Myrick, 107 U. S. 102; N. Y. C. R. R. Co.
v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Hart v. Penna. R. R. Co., 112
U. S. 331; Matter of Released Rates, 13 I. C. C. 559. It was
not the purpose of the Carmack amendment to change
this rule of law.
The right of action was created by the statute and
jurisdiction to entertain it was conferred exclusively upon
the Federal courts.
The state courts have not concurrent jurisdiction with
Federal courts of suits brought on a statutory liability
under the Interstate Commerce Law. The jurisdiction is
exclusively in the Federal court. Sheldon v. Wabash R.
R. Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 785; Van Patten v. Chicago, M. &
St. Paul R. Co., 74 Fed. Rep. 901; Northern PacificRy. Co.

v. Pacific Coast Lumber Mfrs. Assn., C. C. A., 165 Fed.
Rep. 1, 9.
Since the right of recovery rests upon a Federal statute,
a Federal question is necessarily involved. Schlemmer v.
Buffalo R. & P. Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 1; Hoxie v. N. Y. &
N. H. R. R. Co., 82 Connecticut, 356.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

In both these cases the plaintiff in error was held liable
as "initial carrier" for failure to deliver mohair shipped
from points in Texas to the consignee in Lowell. The
company denied liability on the ground that under the
contract expressed in the bills of lading its obligation and
liability ceased when it duly and safely delivered the goods

GALVESTON, H. & S. A. RY. CO. v. WALLACE. 489
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the next carrier. It excepts to various rulings of the
trial court by Which it was prevented from proving that
it had fully complied with its contract; had duly delivered
the mohair, at Galveston, to the first connecting carrier,
which delivered it, at New York, to the next carrier,
which, in turn, delivered it to the Boston & Maine Railroad. Neither the pleadings nor proof showed what this
company did with the mohair nor the cause of its nondelivery, if indeed it was not delivered. For there was
some evidence tending to show that this mohair might
have been among other sacks, the marks of which had
been destroyed, and were still held by the consignee
awaiting identification. This contention, however, was
found against the carrier, and it was held liable to the
plaintiffs. 117 S. W. Rep. 169, 170.
The question as to whether the plaintiff was entitled
to recover the value of the goods at Lowell or, as provided
in the bill of lading, at the point of shipment, is suggested
in one of the briefs. No such issue was made in the lower
court, nor is it referred to in any of the many assignments
of error involving the construction and constitutionality
of the Carmack amendment to the Hepburn Act of 1906,
providing that where goods are received for shipment in
interstate commerce the initial carrier shall be liable for
damages caused by itself or connecting carriers, and
making void any contract of exemption against such
liability. (34 Stat. 584.)
1. The jurisdiction of the state court was attacked,
first, on the ground that § 9 of the original act of 1887
provided that persons damaged by a iolation of the
statute "might make complaint before the commission . . . or in any District or Circuit Court of the
United States." 24 Stat. 379.
It was coritended that Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.426, ruled that this jurisdiction
was exclusive, and from that it was argued that no suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

could be maintained in a state court on any cause of action
created either by the original act of 1887 or by the amendment of 1906. But damage caused by failure to deliver
goods is in no way traceable to a violation of the statute,
and is not, therefore, within the provision of §§ 8 and 9 of
the act to regulate commerce. Atlantic Coast Line v.
Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 208.
The real question, therefore, presented by this assignment of error, is whether a state court may enforce a
right of action arising under an act of Congress.
Statutes have no extra-territorial operation, and the
courts of one government cannot enforce the penal laws
of another. At one time there was some question both
as to the duty and power to try civil cases arising solely
under the statutes of another State. But it is now recognized that the jurisdiction of state courts extends to
the hearing and determination of any civil and transitory
cause of action created by a foreign statute, provided it
is not of a character opposed to the public policy of the
State in which the suit is brought. Where the statute
creating the right provides an exclusive remedy, to be
enforced in a particular way, or before a special tribunal,
the aggrieved party will be left to the remedy given by
the statute which created the right. But jurisdiction is
not defeated by implication. And, considering the relation between the Federal and the state Government, there
is no presumption that Congress intended to prevent state
courts from exercising the general jurisdiction already
possessed by them, and under which they had the power
to hear and determine causes of action created by Federal
statute. Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 637.
On the contrary, the absence of such provision would
be construed as recognizing that where the cause of action
was not penal, but civil and transitory, it was to be subject to the principles governing that class of cases, and
might be asserted in a state court as well as in those of

.GALVESTON, H. & S. A. RY. CO. v. WALLACE. 491
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States. This presumption would be strengthened as to a statute like this passed, not only for the
purpose of giving a right, but of affording a convenient
remedy.
2. The question as to the constitutionality of the Carmack amendment, though ably and elaborately argued,
is out of the case, having been decided adversely to the
contention of the plaintiff in Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v.
Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, after the present suit was
instituted.
The company, however, seeks to distinguish this from
that on the ground that in the Riverside Case it was admitted that the damage to the freight was caused by the
negligence of the connecting carrier. And, as the statute
applies to cases where the damage is caused by the initial
or connecting carrier, and as the cause of the loss of the
goods does not appear here, it is argued that liability is
to be governed by the contract, which provides that the.
initial carrier should not be responsible beyond its own
line. Plaintiff in error insists that the Carmack amendment did not make it an insurer. Under the construction
given that statute in Matter of Released Rates, 13 I. C. C.
Rep. 550; Pattersonv. Adams Express Co., 205 MassachusettW, 254; Travis v. Wells-Fargo Express Co., 74 Atl. Rep.
444, it claims that the initial carrier is not deprived of its
right to contract with the shipper against liability for
damages not caused by either carrier's negligence. But
the failure to plead and to prove the cause of the nondelivery of the goods at destination precludes any determination of such questions.
Under the Carmack amendment, as already construed
in the Riverside Mills Case, wherever the carrier voluntarily accepts goods for shipment to a point on another line
in another State, it is conclusively treated as having made a
through contract. It thereby elected to treat the connecting carriers as its agents, for all purposes of transportation

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

and delivery. This case, then, must be treated as though
the point of destination was on its own line, and is to be
governed by the same rules of pleading, practice and
presumption as would have applied if the shipment had
been between stations in different States, but both on the
company's railroad. Thus considered, when the holders
of the bills of lading proved the goods had not been delivered to the consignee, the presumption arose that they
had been lost by reason of the negligence of the carrier
or its agents. The burden of proof that the loss resulted
from some cause for which the initial carrier was not
responsible in law or by contract was then cast upon the
carrier. The plaintiffs were not obliged both to prove
their case and to disprove the existence of a defense. The
carrier and its agents, having received possession of the
goods, were charged with the duty of delivering them,
or explaining why that had not been done. This must
be so, because carriers not only have better means, but
often the only means, of making such proof. If the failure
to deliver was due to the act of God, the public enemy or
some cause against which it might lawfully contract,
it was for the carrier to bring itself within such exception.
In the absence of such proof, the plaintiffs were entitled
to recover, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

