ATNA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. TREMBLAY.
223 U. S.

185

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

JETNA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
TREMBLAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JtDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE
OF MAINE.
No. 166. Argued January 26, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution does not extend
to judgments of foreign states or nations, and unless there is a treaty
relative thereto this court has no jurisdiction under ยง 709, Rev.
Stat., to review a judgment of a state court on the ground that it
failed to give full faith and credit to a judgment of a court of a
foreign country.

The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ralph W. Crockett for plaintiff in error:

Where a life insurance policy is issued by a company
of one State to one domiciled in another State, and the
insured assigns the policy in the latter State, the law of
the place where the assignment was executed shall govern.
Coburn's Appeal, 74 Connecticut, 463; Lee v. Abdy, 17
Q. B. D. 309; Union Cent. Life Ins. Co. v. Woods, 11 Ind.
App. 335; Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Allen, 138 Massachusetts,
24; Miller v. Campbell, .140 N. Y. 457; Spencer v. Myers,
150 N. Y. 269; Mut. Ben. Life Ins. Co. v. Bank, 68 Mich-

igan, 116; 19 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 90.
This judgment is a valid and binding judgment in the
Province of Quebec and by the decisions of this court is
valid and binding upon our courts. See Hilton v. Guyot,
159 U. S.113; Ritchie v. McMullen, 159 U. S.235.
The -judgment set up by the Etna Life Insurance

186..

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

Company in answer to the suit of Patrick F. Tremblay
is a judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdictionin the Province of Quebec. No question is raised as
to the identity of the subject-matter in the Quebec and
Maine suits nor as to the identity of the parties. It was
rendered in accordance with the laws and practice of
Quebec. All parties were duly notified and cited to appear.
There is no flaw in the record.
The Federal question was raised in the original suit
of Tremblay v', X'tna Life Insurance Cb., 97 Maine, 547,
in which the credit to be given -to the Canadian judgment
is also discussed.
The defendant company introduced evidence of the
Canadian judgment. The plea was the general issue,
with the agreement, that all of the defendant's evidence,
if 'admissible at all, might for the purpose of that case, be
deemed admissible under the general issue; and.. see Etna
Life InsuranceCo. v. Tremblay, 101 Maine, 585.
The Federal right was denied by the Supreme Judicial
Court of Maine. The Federal question was erroneously
decided, and the judgment of the state court was not
founded upon any other matter broad enough to sustain
the judgment. Taylor, Juris. & Pro. U. S. Sup. Ct. 434;'
Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S.163.
The effect to be given to foreign judgments is altogether
a matter ol comity in cases where it is, not regulated by
treaty. 2 Kent's Comm. (6th ed.)'120; Hilton v. Guyot,
159 'U. S.166; McEwan v. Zimmr, 38 Michigan, 765, 769;
Bradstreetv. Insurance Co., 3 Sumn. 600, 608.
The Canadian judgment in 'this case is pleaded in bar,
and there is a marked distinction between judgments. as
a cause of action and as a plea in bar. A foreign judgment
when :brought forward as a cause of action may be-only
prima.facie,. but conclusive when called. into question
incidentally or by a plea in bar. Walker v. Witter, 1 Doug.
1; BUttrick 'v. Allen, 8 Massachusetts, 237; Galbraith v.

IATNA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. TREMBLAY.
223 U. S.

187

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Neville, 5 East, 75; Wood v. Gamble, 11 Cush. 8; Williams
v. Preston, 3 J. J. Mar. (Ky.) 600; Bigelow on Estoppel,
192; Freeman on Judgments (2d ed.), ยง 592.
The Canadian judgment is in the nature of a judgment
in rem. Such judgments are conclusive under conditions
where it might be held otherwise with regard to judgments in personam. See Hilton v. Guyot, supra.
There was no fraud on the part of the insurance company in any of the proceedings connected with the Quebec
judgment.,
Mr. Henry W. Oakes, with whom Mr., William Frye
White was on the brief, for defendAnt in error:
This court has no jurisdiction.
No authority to review the judgment of a state court
exists because it refuses to give effect to valid contracts,
or because in its effect it limpairs the- obligation of a contract.
It must be the constitution or the statute of the State
which impairs the obligation of a contract, or the case
does not come within the jurisdiction of this court. Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180; RailroadCompany v. Rock,
4 Wall. 481; Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall.. 379; Railroad Company v. McClure, 10 Wall. 511; Railroad Company v. Lovering, 12 Wall.. 384; Chouteau v. Mofitt, 111
U. S. 200; Lehigh v. Borough of Easton, 121 U. S. 388;
Parmalee v. Lawrence, 11 .Wallace, 36; McManus v.
O'Sullivan, 91 U. S. 578.
Even had this court jurisdiction, it seems to us manifest that the decision of the court of Maine could not be
successfully attacked on its merits. It was clearly within
the power of the state court to decide as to the validity
of the foreign judgment. Judgments of a foreign state
are prima facie correct only. Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S.
1113, 180.
* Having power to inquire into the validity of the foreign

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

judgment, the court did so, and decided against it on
several grounds as stated, in its opinion.
A foreign judgment, even in rem, is open to inquiry
with respect to its original validity, both as to. the question whether the subject of the judgment, the property
or right upon which it undertook to act, was within the
jurisdiction of the court, and also whether the judgment
was obtained by fraud on the part of the plaintiff, or by
fraud or collusion on the part of the party -undertaking
to set up the judgment as a defense. Wilkinson v. Hall,
6 Gray (Mass.), 568; Eddy v.O'Hare, 132 Massachusetts,
56; Whipple v. Robinson, 97 Massachusetts, 107; Wardle
v. Briggs, 131 Massachusetts, 518.
The court of Maine properly inquired into these questions, and after full hearing decided them adversely to
the plaintiff in error.
The questions were fully within the province of the
court to decide, and the decision cannot be revised by
this process.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The facts are these: At Quebec, Canada, in 1885, the
plaintiff in error issued its policy of insurance for two
thousand 1ollars upon the life of Jean 0. Tremblay, a
resident of Canada, his .wife being named as the beneficiary. In .1891, Tremblay assigned the policy as collateral
security to J. B. Cloutier, of Quebec. Ten years later
'Mr. and Mrs. Tremblay assigned the policy to their soh,
Patrick F. Tremblay, subject to the claim of Cloutier.
Soon after this last assignment Jean 0. Tremblay died,
and both assignees made claim upon the insurance company. The contending claimants not being able to agree
as to the amount of the claim of Cloutier, the insurance
company-- as authorized by the statutes of Canada, paid

,iETNA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. TREMBLAY.
223 U. S.

189

Opinion of the Court.

the amount of the policy to the Provincial Treasurer of
Quebec. Cloutier then- brought suit upon the policy,
making the heirs, widow and son. of the insured parties
defendant. None of the defendants appeared; judgment
by default was entered in favor of Cloutier, and the money
was paid over to him by the Provincial Treasurer. During the pendency of Cloutier's suit, however, and before
the latter obtained his judgment, Patrick F. Tremblay
)sued the insurance company in a court of the State of
Maine, and recovered judgment for the full amount due
upon the policy. 97 Maine, 547. The insurance company
then, unsuccessfully attempted, by a suit in equity, to
stay the collection of the judgment in the action at law.
101. Maine, 585. Presumably in consequence of an intimation of the court when dismissing the equity cause, the
insurance company began this proceeding for a review of
the action at law, and the same culminated in a judgment
in favor of the insurance company against Tremblay for
$818.33 and interest, the sum found to be due to Cloutier,
as equitable. assignee of the policy for his advances .tothe
original holder of the policy, thereby operating'a set-off
of the amount against Tremblay's judgment upon the
policy. This writ of error was then allowed by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine.
The assignments of error are three in number, but they
merely allege in various forms the commission of error
by the state court, sitting as a court of law, in not holding
as requested that the judgment obtained upon the policy
by Cloutier which had been pleaded in bar by the insurance company, was a bar to the action upon the policy,
brought by Patrick F. Tremblay, thereby denying "full
and proper faith and credit" to the Cloutier judgment.
Plainly the writ of error was improvidently allowed.
The authority conferred by Rev. Stat., ยง 709, to review a
final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court
of a State, in which a decision in the suit could be had,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

is limited to cases 'where is drawn in question the validity
of a treaty or statute of,.or an authority exercised under
the United States, and the decision is against their, validity;
or where is drawn in question the validiiy of a statute of,
or an authority exercised under, any State on the ground
of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States, and, the decision is in favor
of their validity; or where any title, right, privilege, or
immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any
treaty or' Statute of, or commission 'held or authority
exercised under, the United States, and the decision is
against the title, right, privilege, or immunity, specially
set up or claimed, by either party, under- such Coistitution, 'treaty, statute, commission, or authority." The
first section of Art. IV of the Constitution confers the
right to have full faith and credit "given in each State
to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings in
every other State." No such right, privilege or immunity,
however; is conferred by -the Constitution or by any
statute of the United States in respect to the judgments
of foreign states or nations, 'and we are referred to no
treaty relative to such a right.
Neither expressly nor by- necessary intendment was
there asserted in the state court during the course of the
litigation in question any claim on behalf of the insurance
company 'of the possession of a right, etc., protected by
the Constitution of the United States. Since, therefore,
entirely aside from all question as to the correctness of
the judgment below rendered, we' are without authority
to review the decision made by the state court, it results
that the writ of error must be and it is dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
Writ of error dismissed.

