ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 292.

Argued January 17, 18, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

Instructions of the head of a Department must be read in light of the
statute directly bearing on the subject; and so held that instructions
of the Secretary of State to consuls in regard to administering effects
of citizens of the United States dying in foreign lands must be read in
the light of § 1709, Rev. Stat.
There is no Federal probate law, but right to administer property left
by a foreigner within the jurisdiction of a State is primarily committed to state law.
Quwre: Whether it is within the treaty-making power of the National
Government to provide by treaty with foreign nations for administration of property of foreigners dying within a State, and to
commit such administration to consuls of the nation to which deceased owed allegiance.
"Intervene in the possession and administration of the deceased" as
the expression is used in the Argentine Treaty of i853, is to be construed as permitting the consul of either contracting nation to
temporarily possess the estate of his national for the purpose of
protecting it, before it comes under the jurisdiction of the laws of
the country, or to protect the interests of his national in an administration already instituted otherwise than by him.
Under the Argentine Treaty of 1853 a consul has not the right to the
original administration of the estate of a deceased national to the
exclusion of one authorized by local law to administer the estate.
While treaties are to be liberally construed, they are to be read in the
light of conditions existing when entered into with a view to effecting the objects of the contracting states.
The law of the Argentine Republic, as brought to the attention of this
court, does not give to consuls of foreign countries the right to administer the estates of deceased nationals, but only to appoint an
executor, which appointment is to be communicated 1o the testamentary judge.
Quwre: Whether the most favored nation clause included in the treaty,
with Italy of 1878 carries the provisions of the Argentine Treaty of

318

OCTO3ER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

1853 in regard, to the administration b3F consuls' of the estates of
deceased nationals.
In California, the public administrator is entitled to administer the
estate of an Italian citizen dying and'leaving an esta t in-California,
in preference to the Consul-General of the Ringdom of;Italy; and
so held after cohstruing the provisions of the treaty of 1878 with
Italy, and that -of 1853 with the Argentine Republic.
157 California, 552, affirmed. -

THE facts, which involve the construction of the pro-.
visions of the treaty of 1878 with Italy-and that- of 1853
with the Argentine Republic in regard:to the right of consuls to administer estates of their respective 'ntives dying
in the United States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert, with whom Mr. Paul Fuller,
'Mr. Ambrose Gherini, Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury and
Mr. ,Charles Cheyney Hyde were on the brief, for plaintiff
inerror:
The treaty clauses in question, conferring the right
of admibistration of the estates of deceased nationals
upon the respective consuls, became part of the municipal
law of California without further legislation and super-'
seded any state statute not consistent therewith.
Should a state law and treaty be in conflict, the state
law must give way.- Head Money Cases, .112,U. S. 598;
United States.v. FoTty-three' Gallons Whisky, 93 U. S.197,
198; Warev. Hilton, 3 Dall. 235.
Treaty provisions in regard to rights-in estates must be
construed in'most liberal fashion, and axe always paramount to state legislation. Shanks v. DupoUt, 3 Pet.
249; 'Geofroy v, Riggs, 133 U. .267; Hauenstein v. Lyn-;
ham, 100 U. S. 488-490; and see Wyman, Petitioner, 191
Massachusetts, 276, criticising Lanfear v. Ritchie, 9 La.
A_ n. 96, as insisting on the doctrine of state rights too
-strongly. People v. Gerke, 5'California, 381, 384; Forbes'
v. Scannell, 13 California, 243, 276.1,
-The language of the Argentine treaty contemplates ad-

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.- .
223 U. S.

319 -

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ministration of estates of deceased nationals by the respective consuls.
The decision of the Supreme Court of California virtually challenges -the constitutionality of the treaty, andlogically and impliedly at, least, although not avowedly,
takes the. ground that the treaty cannot, supersede. the
locar law as to administration.',
The treaty must be interpreted in the light of the civil
law as well as of the common law.
It is the general practice under the law of nations for
consuls, upon the death of one of their nationals, to take
part in caring for the property left by him, especially in
case of intestacy, and seeing that it reaches its destination.
The laws of the United States on this subject are,
therefore, nothing more than a4 codification of international
usage. See Guide Pratique des Consulats by de Clercq
and de Vallat, Vol. I, 522.
For the general powers of United. States consuls, see
Secretary Marcy's circular of 1855. 5 Moore, Int. Law
Dig., Vol. 5, 117, § 1709; Consular Regulations of the
United States; Consul's Powers under the Treaties, § 411;
Argentine Republic and Colombia, 161.
For, duties under favored-nation clause, see § 78, Consular Regulations. Provisions occur in many treaties'
with foreign countries: see Art. 15, Treaty of 1880 with
Belgium; Treaty of 1851 with Costa Rica, Art. 8; Treaty
of 1864 with Honduras; Tenth Article of the Treaty of
1859 with Paraguay; Treaty of 1856 with Persia, Art. VI;
Treaty of 1887 with Peru.
The international sanctity of such. a treaty clause is
instanced by the decision of the Mixed Commission in
the arbitration of the Vergil claim between Peru and the
United States of 1857. 4 Moore, Int. Arb. 4390.
For, judicial precedents as to the right of consuls to
administration, see In re Wyman, 191, Massachusetts, 276;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

In re Fattosini, 33 N. Y. Misc. 18; S. C., 67 N. Y. Supp.
1119; In re Tartaglio (Sur. Ct.), 12 N. Y. Misc. 245; In
re Lobrasciano,38 Misc. Rep. (N. Y.) 415; S. C., 77 N. Y.
Supp. 1040; Matter of Logiorata, 34 Misc. Rep. 31; Aspinwall v. Queen's Proctor, 2 Curteis Rep. 241; Succession of
Thompson, 9 La. Ann. 96.
The view maintained by the Italian Government is
supported by Devlin in his work on the Treaty Making
Power, § 202.
The plain intent of the Argentine treaty, as indicated
by its terms, and as evidenced in the development of
international law, certainly was that the consuls should
have those rights as to possession, liquidation and care
of the estate which necessarily involve administration.
Under the most favored nation clause, the estates of
Americans dying in Italy are guaranteed the utmost
measure of consular protection that Italy may at any time
accord to the estates of other nationals dying within her
borders, and the converse is stipulated as to the estates
of Italian subjects in the United States.
As to the interpretation of the most favored nation
clause, see Mr. Hay and Mr. Hill, For. Rels., 1901, 278
(cited Moore, Int. Law, Vol. V, 318, 319); 19 Ops. Atty.
Genl. 468, 470; Speed, 11 Ops. Atty. Genl. 508; 5 Moore,
Int. Law, 260, 313.
The rule that the advantages of the most favored nation
clause cannot be insisted upon uniess reciprocal advantages
are created in favor of the country upon whom the demand
for favorable treatment is made does not apply, as in
the present case the stipulations of the treaty are in terms
reciprocal. See cases gathered in 5 Moore's International
Digest, 278.
Under Bartram v. Robertson, 122 U. S. 116, and Whitney v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190, there was a lack of equivalent which alone can make the most favored nation clause
inapplicable. 2 For. Rel., 1895, 1121.

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. T. W. Hickey, with whom Mr. Eustace Cuilinan
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The Argentine treaty does not give to consular officers
of either nation the fight to letters of administration in
any case.
Naturally, an American court will not recognize a
claim so repugnant to the general policy of our law unless it clearly appears not only that the two powers which
were parties to the, treaty intended but also that the
American Federal Government had the authority to confer such extraordinary privileges on consular-6er...
The treaty does not grant expressly- the. ight to administer on estates. It grarits only the right to "intervene" in the. possession, administration and judicial
liquidation.
For definition of "intervene" see Anderson's Law
Dictionary; Bouvier's Law Dictionary.
In Civil Law, see Pothier, Proc. Civile, part 1, ch. 2,
S. B., § 3-cited by Bouvier. 8 Ops. Atty. Genl. 99.
The word "intervene" was not ignorantly or carelessly used in the treaty. The Neck, 138 Fed. Rep. 144.
The cases cited by plaintiff in error can be .distinguished
from this case, or were not carefully considered.
Authorities on international law do not sustain plaintiff
in error's contention. Vattel, Book II, ch. 17., § 287..
A consul cannot demand letters of administration
conformably with the laws of California unless he takes
an oath of allegiance which an alien cannot in conscience
take. Cohen v. Wright, 22 California, 309.
By the terms of the treaty the consul may intervene
only in conformity with the laws of the country. For.
Rel. U. S., 1890, 255.
The Italian Government has acquiesced in the interpretation of the Argentine treaty suggested by defendant
in error. For. Rel. U. S., 1894, 366.
The treaty with Italy entitles the Italian Consul GenVOL.

ccx-xnrI-21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

-223 U. S.

eral to such: rights as may be granted to the officers of
the same grade of the most favored nation; but it can-

not be said that the right to administer on estates has
been granted to Argentine consuls when no Argentine
consul, since the treaty was made, has ever demanded or
received letters of administration by virtue of the treaty.
The most favored nation clause which appears in our
treaty with Italy appears also in our treaties with Belgium, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Guatemala,
NetherlandA, Roumania, Servia and Spain. That our
consuls and the consuls of those other nations do not
possess this right, see 242 MS. Dom. Let. 522, archives
State Department. See provisions in Consular Convention of 1878, between ItAly and, the United States,
Art. XVI, which is also to be found in the conventions
with Belgium, 1880, Art. XV; Germany, 1871, Art. X;
Great Britain, 1899, Art. III; Greece, 1902, Art. II;
Guatemala, 1901, Art. III; Netherlands, 1878, Art.. XV;
'Roumania, 1881, Art. XV; Servia, 1881, Art. II, and
Spain, 1902, Art. III.
If the parties to the Argentine treaty had intended to
concede to consuls a right so extraordinary, so subversive
of the ordinary routine of the settlement of estates, so
directly -at variance with usage in countries not barbarian
or semi-barbarian, so offensive to the usual notions of
the due rights of kindred, as the right to letters of administration in precedence of the resident heirs; they
would have made the intention plain. If the language
of the treaty does not definitely and manifestly express,
such an intention, should not courts giye the treaty a
construction more in conformity with the customs, and
more. consistent with the notions of national dignity,
prevalent in civilized states?
The' most favored nation' clause in the treaty with
Italy does not entitle the Italian consular officers to demand whatever privileges may be accorded to Argentine

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

consular officers under the treaty with the Argentine Republic.
For the meaning of the -most favored nation clause,
see 6 Op. Atty. Gen. 148; Whitney v. Robertson, 124 U. S.
190; Bartramv. Robertson, 122 U. S. 116; 5 Moore's Dig.
Int. Law, 257 to 319; State Department Archives (160
MS. Dom. Let. 481).
If the United States has conceded to Argentine consuls the right to administer, the right was granted in
return for a like right, and other rights, granted to the
United States and its consuls. Italy cannot obtain gratis
under the most favored nation clause a iight for which
the Argentine Republic has paid a price.
The Italian Consul General has to prove that the
Italian Government concedes to American consuls in
Italy the right to administer on the estates of intestate
American citizens dying there, but, under the law, there
is no way in which that fact can be proved in an American
court except by a legislative act of the United States,
declaring the fact to exist and commanding American
courts to recognize a like right in Italian consuls. Foster
v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 314; 2 Rose's Notes on U. S. Reps.
837-841; Taylor v. Morton, 2 Curt. 463.
Should the treaty-making authority in' the Uniled
States provide by treaty that Argentine consuls shall
have the right, in preference to the local heirs, creditors,
or public administrator, to administer on the estates of
citizens of the Argentine Republic dying intestate in the
United States, the treaty in that respect would be void
as being in excess of the constitutional powers of the treatymaking authority and a violation of the rights reserved
to the States. In re Ah Lung, 18 Fed. Rep. 28; see note
to 81 Am. Dec. 536; 5 Moore, Dig. Int. Law, 230-231.
There are doubtless limits to the treaty-making power,
Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 490, as there are of all
others, arising under the Constitution. See People v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Naglee, 1 California, 247; People v. Gerke, 5 California,
383; The License Cases, 5 How. 613; Turner v. Baptist
Union, 5 McLean, 347; opinions collected in 5 Moore,
Dig. Int. Law, 170 et seq., holding that a treaty which
invades the rights reserved to the States and affects the
right to legislate concerning matters exclusively within the
jurisdiction of the states' governments will not be enforced
by the courts under the Constitution as the supreme law
of the land.
There is no Federal law of administration' and the
adninistration of estates is a matter customarily left to
the States. Frederickson v. Louisiana, 23 How. 445;
Mayer v. Grima, 8 How. 490.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered tl'e opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
State of California to review a judgment in which that
court held that the public administrator was entitled
to letters of administration upon the estate of an Italian
citizen, dying and leaving an estate in California, in preference to the Consul General of the Kingdom of Italy.
The facts are briefly these: Giuseppe Ghio, a subject of
the K ngdom of Italy, died intestate on the twenty-seventh
day of April, 1908, in San Joaquin County, California, leaving a personal estate. Ghio resided in the State of California. His widow and heirs-at-law, being minor children,
resided in Italy. Plaintiff in error, Salvatore L. Rocca,
was the Consul General of the Kingdom of Italy for
California, Nevada, Washington and Alaska Territory.
Upon the death of Ghio, Consul General Rocca made
application to the Superior Court of California for letters
of administration upon Ghio's estate. The defendant
in error, Thompson, as public administrator, made application for administration upon the same estate under
the laws of California. The Superior Court held that the

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
223-U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

public administrator was entitled to administer the estate.'
The same view Was taken in the Supreme Court of California. 157 California, 552. From the latter decision a
writ of error was granted, which brings the case here.
The Consul General bases his claim to administer the
estate upon certain provisions of the treaty of May 8,
1878 (20 Stat. 725), between Italy and the United States.
Arts. XVI and XVII read as follows:
"Article XVI. In case of the death of a citizen of the
United States in Italy, or of an Italian citizen in the United
States, who has no known heir, or testamentary executor
designated by him, the competent local authorities shall
give notice of the fact to the Consuls or Consular Agents
of the nation to which the deceased belongs, to the end
that information may be at once transmitted to the parties
interested.
"Article XVII. The respective Consuls General, 'Consuls, Vice Consuls and Consular Agents, as likewise the
Consular Chancellors, Secretaries, Clerks or Attach6s,
shall enjoy in both countries, all the rights, prerogatives,
immunities and privileges which are or may hereafter be
granted to the officers of the same grade, of tle'most
favoured nation." (20 U. S. Stats. at Large, p. 732.)
While article XVI only requires notice to the Italian
consul or consular agent of the death of an Italian citizen
in the United States, article XVII gives to consuls and similar officers of the Italian nation the rights, prerogatives,
immunities and privileges which are or may be hereafter
granted to an officer of the same grade of the most favored
nation. It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that
this favored nation clause in thel Italian treaty gives him
the right to administer estates of Italian citizens dying in
this country, because of the privilege conferred upon
consuls of the Argentine Republic by the treaty between
that country and the United States, of July 27, 1853 (10
Stat. 1005), article IX of which provides:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

"If any citizen of either of the two contracting parties
shall die without will or testament, in any of the territories
of the other, the Consul-General or Consul of the nation
to which the deceased belonged, or the, representative of
such Consul-General or Consul, in his absence, shall have
the right to intervene in the possess.ion, administration
and judicial liquidation of the estate of the deceased, conformably with the laws of the country, for the benefit of
the creditors and legal heirs." (10 U. S. Stats. at Large,
p. 1009.)
From this statement of the case it is apparent that the
question at the foundation of the determination of the
rights of the parties is found in the proper interpretation
of the clause of the Argentine treaty just quoted. The
question is: Does that treaty give to consuls of the Argentine Republic the right to administer the estate of citizens of that Republic dying in the United States, and a like
privilege to consuls of the United States as to citizens of
this country dying in the Argentine Republic? The question has bec'n the subject of considerable litigation and
has been diversely determined in the courts of this country
which have had it under consideration.
The surrogate of Westchester County, New York,- in
two cases, In re Fattosini'sEstate, 67 N. Y. Supp. 1119,
and In re Lobrasciano's Estate, 77 N. Y. Supp. 1040, has
held that the treaty of Italy of 1878, ih the most favored
nation clause, carried the benefit of the Argentine treaty
to the consuls of Italy, and that the Argentine treaty
conferred the right of administration upon the consuls of
that country. In Wyman, Petitioner, 191 Massachusetts,
276, the Supreme Judicial Court of that State, as to
Russian consuls, under the most favored nation clause in
the Russian treaty, followed the surrogate's court of7Westchester county, observing that the .ases were well considered and covered the entire ground. The' Supreme
Court of Alabama, in Carpigianiv. Hall, 55 So. Rep. 248,

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

followed the decisions in New York and Massachusetts
just referred to, and in In re Scutella's Estate, 129 N. Y.
Supp. 20, the Appellate'Division of the Supreme Court of
New York pursued the same course.
A contrary view was expressed by the surrogate court of
New York County in In re Logiorato's Estate, 69 N. Y.
Supp. 507, and by the Supreme Court of Louisiana in Lanfear v. Ritchie, 9 La. Ann. 96.
An examination of the cases which have held in favor of
the right of a Consul-General to administer the 'estate, to
the exclusion of the public administrator, makes it apparent that the Lobrasciano Case, which is the fullest upon
the subject, is the one that has been followed without independent reasoning upon the part of the courts adopting it.
In that case the right of a consul to administer the
estates of deceased citizens of his country is based, not
only upon the interpretation of the treaties involved, but
as well upon the law of nations giving the right to consuls
to administer such estates. In the opinion some citations
are made from early instructions of Secretaries of State,
emphasizing the right and duty of consuls to administer
upon the effects of citizens of the United States dying in
foreign lands.
But these instructions must be read in the light of the
statute of the United States, § 1709,1 Rev. Stat., which,
1 "Sec.

1709. It shall be the duty of consuls and vice-consuls, where
the laws of the countyy permit:
"First. To take possession of the personal estate left by any citizen
of the United States, other than seamen belonging to any vessel, who
shall die within their consulate, leaving there no legal representative,
partner in trade, or trustee by him appointed to take care of his effects.
"Second. TQ inventory the same with the assistance of two merchants of the United States, or, for want of them, of any others at their
choice.
"Third. To collect the debts due the deceased in the country where

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

while it recognizes the right of consuls and vice-consuls
to take possession of the personal estate left by any citizen of the United States who shall die within their consulates, leaving there no legal representative, partner or
trustee; to inventory the same, and to collect debts, provides in the fifth paragraph of the section that, if at any
time before the transmission to the United States Treasury of the balance of the estate the legal representative
appears and demands his effects in the hands of the consul,
they shall be delivered up and he shall cease further proceedings, and the duties imposed are where "the laws of
the country permit."
The consular regulations of the United States tersely
express the duty of a consul as to the conservation of the
property of deceased countrymen, and declare that he
has no right, as consular officer, apart from the provisions
of treaty, local law or usage, to administer the estate, or,
in that character, to aid any other person in so administering it, without judicial authorization. Section 409 of
the Consular Regulations is as follows:
"A consular officer is by the law of nations and by statute the provisional conservator of the property within his
district belonging to his countrymen deceased therein. He
has no right, as a consular officer, apart from the provisions
of treaty, local law, or usage, to administer on -the estate,
he died, and pay the debts due from his estate which he shall have
there contracted.
"Fourth. To sell at auction, after reasonable public notice, such
part of the estate as shall be of a perishable nature, and such further
part, if any, as shall be necessary for the payment of his debts, and, at
the expiration of one year from his decease, the residue.
"Fifth. To transmit the balance of the estate to the Treasurer of the
United States, to be holden in trust for the legal claimant; except that
if at any time before such transmission the legal -representative of the
deceased shall appear and demand his effects in their hands they shall
deliver them up, being paid their fees, and shall cease their proceedings."

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or in that character to aid any other person in so administering it, without judicial authorization. His duties are
restricted to guarding and collecting the effects, and to
transmitting them to the United States, or to aid others
in so guarding, collecting and transmitting them, to be
disposed of pursuant to the law of the decedent's state-7
Op. Att. Gen. 274. It is, however, generally conceded
that a consular officer may intervene by way of observing
the proceedings, and that he may be present on the making
of the inventory."
In Moore's International Law Digest, Vol. 5, p. 123, a
letter of Mr. Hay, Secretary of State, under date of
February 3, 1900, is quoted to the effect that the right of
a United States consular officer to intervene by way of
observing proceedings in relation to the property of deceased Americans leaving no representatives in foreign
countries, is not understood to involve any interference
with the functions of a public administrator.
In this country the right to administer property left
by a foreigner within the jurisdiction of a State is primarily
committed to state law. It seems to be so regulated in
the State of California, by giving the administration of

such property to the public administrator. There is, of
course, no Federal law of probate or of the administration
of estates, and, assuming for this purpose that it is within
the power of the National Government to provide by
treaty for the administration of property of foreigners
dying within the jurisdiction of the States, and to commit
such administration to the consular officers of the Nations
to which the deceased owed allegiance, we will proceed to
examine the treaties in question with a view to determining
whether such a right has been given in the present instance.
This determination depends, primarily, upon the construction of Art. 9 of the Argentine treaty of 1853, giving
to the consular officers of the respective countries, as to
citizens dying intestate, the right "to intervene in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

posgession, administration and judicial liquidation of the
estate of the deceased, conformably with the laws of the
country, for the benefit of the creditors and legal heirs."
It will be observed that, whether in the possession, the
administration or the judicial liquidation of the estate, the
sole right conferred is that of intervention and that conformably with the laws of the country. Does this mean the
right to administer the property of such decedent and to
supersede thee local law as to the administration of such
estate? The right to intervene'at once suggests the privilege to enter into a proceeding already begun, rather than
the right to take and administer the property.
Literally, to intervene means, as the derivation of the
word indicates [inter, between, and venire, come], to come
between. Such is the primary definition of the word given,
in Webster's Dictionary and in the Century Dictionary.
When the term is used in reference to legal proceedings, it
covers the right of one to interpose in, or become a party
to, a proceeding already instituted, as a creditor may
intervene in a foreclosure suit to enforce a lien upon property or some right in connection therewith; a stockholder
may sometimes intervene in a suit brought by a corporation; the Government is sometimes allowed to intervene
in suits between private parties to protect a public interest,
and whether we look to the English ecclesiastical law, the
civil law, from which the Argentine law is derived, or the
common law, the meaning is the same.
"In ecclesiastical law.-The proceeding of .a third person, who, not being originally a party to the suit or proceeding, but claiming an interest in the subject-matter in
dispute, in order the better to protect such interest, interposes his claim. 2 Chit. Pr. 492; 3 Chit. Commer. Law,
633; 2 Hagg. Const. 137; 3 Phillim. Ecc. Law, 586.
"In the civil law.-The act by which a third party demands to be received as a party in a suit pending between
other persons.

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The intervention is made either for the purpose of
being joined to the plaintiff, and to claim the same thing
hedoes, or some other thing connected with it; or to join
the defendant, and with him to oppose the claim of the
plaintiff, which it is his interest to defeat. Poth. Proc.
Civile, pt. 1, c. 2, § 7, 1no. 3.
"In practice.-A proceeding in a suit or-action by which
a third person is permitted by the court to make himself a
party, either joining the plaintiff in claiming what is
sought by the complaint, or uniting with the defendant
in resisting the claims of the plaintiff, or demanding
something adversely to both of them. Logan v., Greenlaw
(C. Cr), 12 Fed. Rep.' 16; Fischer v. Hanna, 8 Colo. App.
471, 47 Pac. Rep. 303; Gale v. Frazier,4 Dakota, 196, 30
N. W. Rep. 138; Reay v. Butler (Cal.), 7 Pac. Rep. 671."
Black's Law Dictionary, p. 651.
Emphasis is laid upon the right under the Argentine
treaty to intervene in possession, as well as administration and judicial liquidation; but this term can only have
reference to the universally recognized right of a consul to
temporarily possess the estate of a citizen of his nation
for the purpose of protecting and conserving the rights of
those interested before it comes under the jurisdiction
of the laws of the country for its administration. The
right to intervene in administration and judicial liquidation is for the same general purpose, and presupposes an
administration or judicial liquidation instituted otherwise than. by the consul, who is authorized to intervene.
So, looking at the terms of the treaty, we cafinot perceive an intention to give the original administration of
an estate to the Consul-General, to the exclusion of one
authorized by local law to administer the estate.
Bitt it is urged that treaties are to be liberally construed.
Like other contracts, they are to be read in the light of
the conditions and circumstances existing at the time
they were entered into, with a view to effecting the objects

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

and purposes of the States thereby contracting. In re
Ross, Petitioner, 140 U. S. 453, 475.
It is further to be'observed that treaties are the subject
of careful consideration before they are entered into, and
are drawn by persons competent to express their meaning
and to choose apt words in which to embody the purposes
of the high contracting parties. Had it been the intention
to commit the administration of estates of citizens of one
country, dying in another, exclusively to the consul of
the foreign nation, it would have been very easy to have
declared that purpose in unmistakable terms. For instance, where that was the purpose, as in the treaty made
with Peru in 1887 (August 31, 1887, 25 Stat. 1444), it
was declared in Art. 33, (p. 1461), as follows:
"Until the conclusion of a consular convention, Which
the high contracting parties agree to form as soon as may
be mutually convenient, it is stipulated, that in the absence of the legal heirs or representatives the consuls or
vice-consuls of either party shall be ex-officio the executors
or administrators of the citizens of their nation who may
die within their consular jurisdictions, and of their countrymen dying at sea whose property may be brought within
their district."
And in the convention between the United States and
Sweden, proclaimed March 20, 1911, it is provided:
"In the event of any citizens of either of the two Contracting Parties dying without will or testament, in the
territory of the other Contracting Party, the consulgeneral, consul, vice-consul-general, or vice-consul of the
nation to which the deceased may belong, or, in his absence, the representative of such consul-general, consul,
vice-consul-general, or vice-consul, shall, so far as the
laws of each country will permit and pending the appointment of an administrator and until letters of administration have been granted, take charge of the property left
by the deceased for the benefit of his lawful heirs and

ROCCA v. THOMPSON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

creditors, and, moreover, have the right to be appointed
as administrator of such estate."
The Argentine treaty was made in 1853, and the Italian
treaty in 1878. In 1894, correspondence between Baron
Fava, the then Italian Ambassador, and Mr. Uhl, Acting
Secretary of State, shows that the Italian Ambassador
proposed that Italian consuls in the United States be
authorized, as were the American consuls in Italy to
settle the estates of deceased countrymen. It was the
view of the Department of State of the United States,
then expressed,. that, as the administration of estates in
the United States was under the control of the respective States, the proposed international agreement should
not be made. The Acting Secretary of State adverted to
the practical difficulties of giving such administration
to consular officers, often remotely located from the place
where the estate was situated. See Moore's International
Law Digest, Vol. 5, p. 122.
The learned counsel for the plaintiff in error, in his
supplemental brief, has referred to a statement of the
law of the Argentine Confederation of 1865, English
translation published in Vol. 58, British and Foreign
State Papers, p. 455, in which it is said that a foreigner
dying intestate, without leaving a wife or lawful heirs in
the Argentine Republic, or where he dies leaving a will,
the heirs being foreigners absent from the country and the
executor being also absent, the consul of the deceased foreigner's nation is given the right to intervene in the arrangement of his affairs. In Arts. III and IV it is declared:
"III. Consular intervention shall be confined to-st.
Sealing up the goods, furniture and papers of the deceased,
after giving due notice to the local authorities, provided
always that the death has taken place within the Consular
district. 2d. Appointing executors.
"IV. The Consuls shall at once communicate to the
testamentary Judge the appointment of such executors."

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

It is contended that the right secured to a foreign consul
to appoint an executor under this act of 1865 is evidence
of the fact that the Argentine Republic is carrying out
the treaty in the sense contended for by the plaintiff in
'error; but in this law certainly no right of administration
is given to the consul of a foreign country. It is true, he
may appoint an executor, which appointment it is provided is to be at once communicated to the testamentary
judge.
In Art. VIII the same law provides that executors
shall perform their charge in accordance with the laws of
the country. Art. XIII declares'that the rights granted
by the law shall be only in favor of the nations which cede
equal privileges to Argentine consuls and citizens.
Our conclusion then is that, if it should be conceded
for this purpose that the most favored nation clause in
the Italian treaty carries the provisions of the Argentine
treaty to the consuls of the Italian Government in the
respect contended for, (a question unnecessary to decide
in this case)f yet there was no purpose in the Argentine
treaty to take away from the States the right of local administration provided by their laws, upon the estates of
deceased citizens of a foreign country, and to commit the
same to the consuls of such foreign nation, to the exclusion
of those entitled to administer as provided by the local
laws of the State within which such foreigner resides and
leaves property at the time of decease.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of California, and the same is
Affirmed.

