UNITED STATES v. BARUCH.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the. Court.

UNITED STATES v. BARUCH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS 'FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 190. Argued November 13, 14, 191' . -Decided

February 19, 1912.

Cotton featherstitch braids are properly assessed at sixty per centum
as braids under the trimming schedule, par. 339, and not at fortyfive per centum as tapes or bindings under notions schedule, par. 320
of the Tariff Act of July 24, 1897.
Where a conflict which had existed under prior tariff acts as to the classification of articles had been settled, Congress will not be presumed
in enacting a new tariff to t'enew the conflict by not adhering to the
commercial and tariff meaning of the terms as it had been settled.
The soundness of the judicial construction of a statute is reinforced
by the fact that it had been the construction given by the Executive
Department charged with its enforcement ever since its adoption.
172 Fed. Rep. 342, reversed; 159 Fed. Rep. 294, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the classification of cottonfeatherstitch braids under the tariff act of 1897, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wemple, with whom
Mr. Charles E. McNabb, Assistant Attorney was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, with whom Mr. John A. Kratz, Jr.,

was on the brief, for respondents.
MR.

CHIEF

JUSTICE WHITE-delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case concerns the proper classification of merchandise imported in 1899, and subsequent years, by the

1.92

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

respondent at the port of New York, invoiced as" cottonfeatherstitch braids." The goods consisted of articles
ranging variously from about one-fourth to one-half of an
inch in width, loom woven, of white or colored threads
throughout, or of mixed white and variously colored
threads of cotton or other vegetable fiber,, and ornamented
with raised figures in various designs, some of which had
plain and others scalloped or looped edges. They were
officially appraised as "cotton braids-sixty percentum;"
and were accordingly classified by the collector as "braids"
under paragraph 339 of the tariff act of July 24, 1897
(30 Stat. 151, 181, c. 11), generally referred to as the
"trimmings" schedule, the pertinent provision of which
is as follows: "Embroideries and all trimmings, including
braids, edgings, insertings, flouncings, galloons, gorings
and bands,
composed wholly or in chief value
of flax, cotton, or other vegetable fiber, and not elsewhere
specially provided for in this Act."
Asserting that the articles should not have been assessed
at 60 per cent. but were dutiable at the rate of 45 per
cent. ad valorem under paragraph 320 of said act, usually
styled the "notions" schedule, as "bindings" or as
"tapes . . . made of cotton or other vegetable
fiber," the importers duly protested, and the question of
the proper classification was considered by the Board of
General Appraisers. That body, on July 24, 1906, sustained the decision of the collector, upon the authority of
a ruling made in the case of Straus Bros. & Co., wherein
the Board but acted upon the evidence taken in and
applied the ruling made in what is known as the Vom
Baur Case. The importers carried the case to the Circuit
Court, and in that court additional evidence was introduced by both parties. Upon such additional evidence
and the evidence taken before the board, the decision of
the board was affirmed on November 23, 1907. 159 Fed.
Rep. 294. On appeal, however, the Circuit Court of .Ap-

UNITED STATES v. BARUCH.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

peals held the merchandise dutiable at 45 per cent. ad
valorem as "binding," under ยง 320, and the decision of the
Circuit Court was reversed. 172 Fed. Rep. 342. This writ
of certiorari was then allowed.
Under the tariff acts of 1890 (May 9, 1890, 26 Stat. 105,
c. 200) and 1894 (August 27, 1894, 28 Stat. 509, c. 349)
braids were enumerated in the "notions" schedule, which
carried a lower rate of duty than articles in the "trimmings" schedule.
In re Dieckerhoff, 54 Fed. Rep. 161, involved a review
of the decision of, the Board of General Appraisers (G. A.
1301) in the matter of an importation, in 1891, of articles
similar to those here in question, dutiable under the tariff
act of 1890. The controversy was whether the goods
should have been assessed at the rate of 60 per cent. ad
valorem as cotton trimmings under the "trimmings"
schedule, paragraph 373 of the tariff act of 1890, or assessed as cotton braids at 35 cents per pound under the
"notions" schedule of the same act. The Government
insisting on the higher duty, contended that the articles
should be classified as cotton trimmings, and were not
braids, because to be such they must be braided. The
importers, however contending for the lower duty, urged
that the goods were commonly known as featherstitch
braids, and should be classified :as braids, and thus be
brought under ,he notion schedule bearing the lower duty.
The court overruled the contention of the Government,
accepted the commercial designation, and sustained the
ruling of the Board of General Appraisers that the goods
were braids, and dutiable as such. The Government
acquiesced in this decision. The administrative rule,
therefore, under the tariff act of 1890, was to classify the
articles in question-as braids embraced within the notions
schedule, and thereby cause them to carry a lower duty
than they would have carried had they been embraced in
the trimmings schedule; and under the act of 1894 the
VOL. ccxxiii-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

same practice was pursued. When, by the act of 1897,
upon which this case depends, braids were taken out of
the notions schedule carrying a lower duty and put in the
trimmings schedule which carried the higher, the articles
continued to be classed as braids, and consequently, because of the change in the law, were assessed for a higher
duty. And this administrative construction was applied
under the act of 1897 for a considerable number of years.
See G. A. 4326 (T. D. 20,515), decided January 3, 1899,
and G. A. 4929 (T. D. 23,073), decided May 27, 1901.
When the latter decision was rendered (May 27, 1901),
however, the importer appealed from the ruling, and the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, in
Steinhardt v. United States, 121 Fed. Rep. 442, reversed
the decision of the Board of General Appraisers and held
that the articles were dutiable as bindings under the
notions shedule and not as braids under the trimmings
schedule. The reasoniig was this-the court said (p. 443):
"The articles in question appear to be narrow woven tapes
of cotton used largely for covering the seams of underwear
and waists. The Standard Dictionary gives onedefinition
of a 'braid' as 'a narrow, flat tape or woven strip for binding the edges of fabrics, or for ornamenting them.' If these
articles are braids within this or a like definition, they are
also bindings or tapes within paragraph 320 .
.
Thus finding the articles to be within the dictionary
definition of both braids and bindings, as the trimmings
schedule in which braids were embraced, paragraph 339,
contained a general qualification that articles therein
named should be liable to the duty therein specified when
"not elsewhere specially provided for in this act," the
court held that as the braids in question were within the
dictionary definition of bindings they were therefore otherWise provided for and should be classed within the notion
schedule, paragraph 320, and carry the lower duty. The
Government did not appeal frbm this decision, under the

UNITED STATES v. BARUCH.
223 U. S.

.195.

Opinion of the Court.

instructions of the Attorney General. Such instructions,
however, expressly directed that in all future importations
the decision should not be applied, but that duty'should
be assessed according to. the prior practice so that a test
case might be made. (T. D. 24,269.) It is persuasively
indicated by what we shall hereafter state, that this course
was followed, because the record in the Steinhardt Case
did not contain what was deemed to be adequate proof as
to the accepted commercial designation of the articles to
afford a proper basis for testing the matter in that case, a
deficiency which it may well be surmised arose from the
belief on the part of the Government in making up that
case that the settled administrative practice based upon
the previous judicial construction would not be departed
from.
The classification again came under consideration in
what is known as the Vom Baur Case, and much testimony
was taken before the board "for the purpose of showing
that the articles were commercially known as braids, and
were so commercially known at and prior to the passage
of the tariff act of 1897, and therefore dutiable under paragraph 339." In an exhaustive review of the evidence in
that case the board held that the testimony established
that there had been no change in the commercial designation of the articles since 1892, at which time, as heretofore
stated, the goods were commercially known as "featherstitch braids," and such had been judicially determined
to be the case by the Circuit Court in the Dieckerhoff
Case, supra. The board pointed out that in the case before
it the importers had taken a position the opposite to that
which had been assumed by the importers in the Dieckerhoff Case, since in that case, for the purpose of obtaining
the lower duty under the act of 1890, they had insisted
that the articles were commercially known as braids, and
were dutiable as such; and in the case under consideration
the contention was that there was no general and definite

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

trade designation of the articles as braids, since they were
known as bindings and tapes, as well as by the name of
featherstitch braids, and that they were in fact tapes,
having been produced by weaving instead of by braiding.
The following questions were considered by the board
in connection with an extended review of the testimony:
"First. Were these goods known in the trade and commerce of this country at and immediately prior to July 24,
1897, as 'braids'?
"Second. If the goods were commercially known as
'braids' at and immediately prior to July 24, 1897, are
they dutiable under paragraph 339?"
On the record before it it was found "as matter of fact":
1. That the goods in question were generally known in
the wholesale trade of the United States at and prior to
July 24, 1897, as "featherstitch braids."
2. That the term "featherstitch braids" was the only
general commercial iine under which the goods were
known in the trade and commerce of this country at and
immediately prior to July 24, 1897, and that the terms
"seam bindings," "finishing tapes," and others are subordinate names which have not been generally employed
to designate these goods.
The board concluded its opinion as follows:
"In view of these findings, we think the case is distinguished from the Steinhardt Case (supra). That case
only decided that if the articles were- braids within the
lexicographical definitions they were also bindings or
tapes, and were therefore, more specifically provided for
in paragraph 320. Ther~e was no satisfactory testimony
in the case as to the commercial designation of the articles,
whereas it has now been shown by competent testimony
that they are generally known in the commerce of this
country as 'braids,' and not as 'tapes' or 'bindings.'
The Circuit Court of Appeals in Hiller v. United States
(106 Fed. Rep. 73), decided that cotton braids of all

UNITED STATES v. BARUCH.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

classes are included within the scope of paragraph 339.
The decision of the court is in part as follows: 'A comparison of the provisions of the cotton schedules in the acts
of 1894 and 1897 in regard to the classification of braids
is, however, quite significant of the intent of Congress.
Paragraph 263 of the act of 1894, which corresponds to
paragraph 320 of the act of 1897, imposed a duty of 45 per
cent. upon cords, braids, etc., made of cotton, but braids
are omitted in paragraph 320 of the new act, which imposes the same duty. Paragraph 276 of the act of 1894,
which corresponded to paragraph 329 of the new act,
omitted braids, which was inserted in paragraph 339the one under consideration. A comparison of the two
acts indioates that Congress intentionally took braids
'out of the 45 per cent. paragraph, where it had been in
1894, and put the article into a paragraph imposing the
higher rate of duty, and that it intended to impose the
rate upon the articles, irrespective of the use to which they
might be applied.'
"Under this decision, featherstitch braids, ,which Were
held in the Dieckerhoff Case to be dutiable as 'braids'
under the act of 1890, and which we have found were
commercially known as 'braids' at the time of the passage of the act of July 24, 1897, are, in our opinion,, dutiable as assessed under the provisions of paragraph 339
of the act of July 24, 1897."
On the appeal of the importers, the decision was
affirmed, "on the opinion of the Board,"-which is set out
verbatim in the report of the case. Vom Baur v. United
States, 141 Fed. Rep: 439. An appeal was taken from
the decision, but it was subsequently dismissed without
prejudice.
As already stated, the Board of General Appraisers,
in the case at bar, rested their decision upon the evidence
taken and its ruling in the Vom Baur Case. As also
stated, that evidence was supplemented in the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Court by evidence-taken on behalf of both parties to the
controversy. Such further testimony, it was observed
by the Circuit Court, did not tend to weaken the conclusion reached by the board, "that these goods were
known generally in the trade as featherstitch braids prior
to 1897," but "in truth it serves to strengthen it."
In the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the decision of the Circuit Court, the court referred
to the "merchandise in question" as consisting "of narrow woven strips bearing 'featherstitch' or 'herringbone'
ornamentation," and substantially conceded that the
Circuit Court and Board of Appraisers correctly decided
"that prior to 1897 it was generally commercially designated as 'featherstitch braid.'" Accepting this commercial designation, however, and evidently relying upon
the reasoning of the opinion in the Steinhardt Case, it was
in effect held that the braids in question were not used
"for ornamental purposes solely," but "being used for
the purpose of binding seams are, in our opinion, the kind
of braids properly called bindings." Referring to ยง 320
of the act of 1897 as the "notions" paragraph, and ยง 339
as the "trimmings" paragraph, the court then said:
'And we think that it may fairly be assumed that when
Congress inserted- the word 'bindings' in the 'notions'
paragraph and transferred the word 'braid' to the 'trimmings' paragraph with words of qualification, it intended
to embrace in the latter paragraph only such braids as
were not bindings.
"If the articles are bindings as well as braids, the provision in the 'notions' paragraph is the more specific.
Bindings are. embraced without words of restriction or
qualification. These articles as bindings are necessarily
included and they are specially provided for elsewhere
in paragraph 339."
There is no substantial dispute as to the correctness
of the findings of the Board of General Appraisers that

UNITED STATES v. BARUCH.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the goods in question were generally known in the whole.-sale trade. of the United States at and prior to July 24,
1897, as "featherstitch braids," and at such period that
designation "was the only general commercial name under
which the goods were known in the trade and commerce of
this country." That the tariff act of 1897 was drafted
and was adopted by Congress in the light of the then
fixed practice of the Government to assess such articles as
"braids," irrespective of the subsidiary names which
may have been applied by some -who used the articles
or without regard to some of the special uses of which
they were susceptible of being put is not open to reasonable contention. This being the case, we are unable to
conclude that Congress, knowing the commercial as well
as the tariff designation of the articles, re~mployed the
term braids in the act of 1897, and yet intended that
some of the articles embraced within the commercial
designation should be taken out of that designation and
treated for the purpose of assessment of duty as being
that which they were not, because they possessed features
of utility as well as ornamentation.
When the contentions which had arisen concerning
the dutiable character of the articles under the act of
1890 are taken into view and the claims there made by
the importers as to their nature and character for the
purpose of subjecting them to a lower duty are borne in
mind, we think the shifting of braids from the lower duty
of the notions schedule to the higher duty of the trimmings
schedule, without any change of phraseology to indicate
that it, was the purpose to depart from the settled commercial meaning of the word braids, plainly manifested
the purpose of Congress to accept that designation and
make it applicable, and hence to subject the articles, un.der their acc'epted designation, to the higher duty placed
upon the articles embraced in the schedule to which
braids were transferred. Any other view would render

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

necessary the conclusion that it was the intention of
Congress in using the word braids not to adhere to the
then well-settled commercial and tariff meaning of the
term, but to use the word in a sense different from that

which was accepted for the purpose of renewing a conflict
as to the proper meaning of the word, which had been

flagrant under the prior act.

While these conclusions

need no reinforcement, their soundness is additionally
and cogently sustained by the construction given to the
act upon its adoption and the consequent administrative
enforcement of the same which prevailed without question
for so considerable a time.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
and that of the Circuit Court is affirmed; and the case is
remanded to the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.

JACOBS v. PRICHARD, TRUSTEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 93. Submitted December 8, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.
In allotting Indian lands, Congress can determine the conditions under
which they shall be alienated by the allottees, and titles resting on
deeds of Commissioners and consents of the allottees required by
the statute under which the lands were allotted are to be determined by the Federal statute, and not by the laws-of the States.
Under the act of March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 612, c. 209, and the amendatory act of June 7, 1897, 30 Stat. 62, c. 3, carrying out the treaty
with the Omaha Indians of 1854, the consent required to be given
to the Cdnmissioner for sale of land of allottee Indians in the
Puyallup Reservation in Washington was not a mere power to sell

