NEW MARSHALL CO. v. MARSHALL ENGINE CO. 473
223 U. S.

-

Syllabus.

paid a tax illegally imposed on those engaged in the selling
of liquor.
To permit those not affected by a statute to pay the
sum thereby assessed, and then sue for its recovery on the
ground that the act was void, would reverse the rule that
"one who would strike down a State statute as violative
of the Federal Constitution must bring himself by proper
averments and showing within the class as to whom the
act thus attacked is unconstitutional. He must show that
the alleged unconstitutional feature of the law injures
him, and so operates as to deprive him of rights protected
by the Federal Constitution." Southern Railway Co. v.
King, 217 U. S. 524, 534.
What we have said shows that the question as to voluntary payment fairly arose out of the record, and was
not arbitrarily injected into the case. Leathe v. Thomas,
207 U. S. 93, 99. A decision on that non-federal point
could properly dispose of the plaintiff's suit to recover
back what it had paid. The judgment of the Civil Court*
of Appeals must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

NEW MARSHALL ENGINE COMPANY v. MARSHALL ENGINE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 107.

Submitted December 15, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.

The Federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction of all cases arising under
the patent laws, but not of all questions in which a pr.tent may be
the subject-matter of the controversy.
Courts of a State may try questions of title and construe and enforce
contracts relating to patents. Wade v. Lawder, 165 U. S. 624.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

223 U. S.

A sui, to compel assignment of a patent and to enjoin manufacturing
and sale of articles covered. thereby, because the patent is an improvement on an earlier one and included in a covenant to convey
all such improvements, is based on general principles of equity, and
is within the jurisdiction of the state court.
Where the injunction granted against sale of articles manufactured
under a patent is only' an incident to a decree for specific performance of a contract to convey the patent as an improvement of an
earlier one, the relief is appropriate, and, if it does not determine
questions of infringement, is within the jurisdiction of the state
courts.
203 Massachusetts, 410, affirmed.

ON June 1, 1886, Letters Patent 342,802, were issued to

Frank J. Marshall for an improvement in Pulp Beating
Engines. Shortly before the patent expired he organized
the Marshall Engine Company, and on September 15,
1903, assigned to it the patent and "all improvements
thereon and renewals of the same." Marshall was elected
president of the company, but. neglected to have the assignment recorded within the time required by law. It
contained, however, a provision for further assurance, and
on October 8, 1904, after the patent had expired, Marshall
executed an additional instrument whereby, after reciting
the former -assignment, he transferred the patent and "all
further improvements thereon and renewals thereof."
In September, 1903, at the time the first assignment
was made, Marshall had on file an application for a patent
on "an improvement on patent 411,251 granted to E. R.
Marshall, and embodies features shown in patent 342,802,
granted in 1886 to myself." There is no further reference
in the record to patent 411,251. Marshall's application
was granted, and on April 14, 1903, Letters Patent 725,349
were granted to him.
.No formal assignment was made, but it is found as a
fact that, between September 15, 1903, and the receivership, the complainant manufactured nine or ten engines
embodying the improvement covered by patent 725,349.

NEW MARSHALL CO. v. MARSHALL ENGINE CO. 475
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

On June 13, 1905, a receiver was appointed for the
Marshall Engine Company. Immediately thereafter,
Marshall organized under the laws of Massachusetts a new
company bearing his name, and assigned to it this patent
725,349. The New Marshall Engine Company took with
notice of the complainant's right.
The Marshall Engine Company, of New Jersey, claimed
title to this patent 725,349 as an "Improvement" on
patent 342,802, which passed by virtue of the assignment
of September 15, 1903. It thereupon filed, through its
receiver, a bill in the Superior Court of Franklin County,
Massachusetts, asserting this title and praying that the
defendants, Marshall and the New Marshall Engine Company, should be required to execute and deliver to it an
assignment in due form to patent 725,349, so as to entitle
it to be recorded in the Patent Office, and also that the
defendants, their successors and assigns, should be enjoined from manufacturing or selling machines covered by
patent 725,349.
The defendants answered, admitting or denying the
several allegations of the bill, but setting up no affirmative
defense. The case was referred to a Master, who found
in favor of the complainant. Thereupon the defendant
moved to dismiss the bill because "it presents questions
involving an inquiry as to the construction and scope of
the patents therein mentioned, of which questions the
Federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction." The motion
was overruled, and a final decree was entered in favor of
the complainants. The decision was affirmed by the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and the case
was brought here by writ of error.
Mr. Edmund A. Whitman, Mr. Lyman W. Griswold and
Mr. Frank J. Lawler, for plaintiffs in error:
The United States courts have exclusive jurisdiction of
all cases arising under the patent-right and copyright

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in,
Error.

223-U. S.

laWs of the United States. Revised Stats., c. 12, § 711;
Rev. Stat., §§ 4884-4886.
Plaintiff's bill alleges that defendant, Marshall, invented A certain valuable improvement in refining engines,
which was an -improvement upon the engine for which
patent No. 342,802 had been granted to him.
One question here presented is as to the construction
to be given to the law governing the assignment under
which the plaintiff claims title, which clearly makes it a
case for the United States courts. Litilefield v. Perry, 21
Wall. 205.
This puts in issue the nature and scope of the patent
above referred to, and involves an inquiry into the nature
and scope of the invention. Aberthaw Const. Co. v. Ransome, 192 Massachusetts, 434, 439.
There is a clear distinction between a case and a question under the patent laws. The former arises when the
plaintiff in his opening pleading sets up a right under the
patent laWs as a ground for recovery. Pratt v. ParisGaslight & Coke Co., 168 U. S. 255.
If the assignee of a patent sets up his patent he thereby
puts the title in issue, and even if it is denied by the
defendant this does not make it a suit upon the contract,
but it still remains a suit for infringement of a patent, and
if the patent is involved it carries with it the whole case.
Excelsior V. P. Co. v. Pacific Bridge Co., 185 U. S.
291.
The character of a case is determined, by the question
involved. If it appears that some right will be defeated
by one construction of an United States law, or sustained
by an opposite construction of such law, a case thereby
arises of which the United States courts alone have jurisdiction. Cases supra and Starin v. New York, 115 U. S.
257.
The issue as joined brings in issue the question of the
title to a patent, and also makes it necessary to go into

NEW MARSHALL CO. v. MARSHALL ENGINE CO. 477
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the nature and scope of the engines covered by said patent, and in such cases the United States courts alone have
jurisdiction. Aberthaw Construction Co. v. Ransome, 192
Massachusetts, 434, at 439; Littlefield v. Perry, 21 Wall.
205, at 219.
The plaintiff in his prayer asks for relief by having the
defendants enjoined from infringing upon a patent, and
this makes it a case arising under the patent laws; cases
supra.
A state court cannot issue an injunction imposing such
restraint as is here asked for, protecting the plaintiff in
making,
using, or vending in the United States.
It would
make the defendants liable to a succession
of
suits in each State.
Even if the complaint standing by itself makes out a
case of jurisdiction, it will be taken away if the answer
sets up a case of a right under the patent laws. Robinson
v. Anderson, 121 U. S. 522; Excelsior W. P. Co. v. Pacific
Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282, 287.
A suit in which the relief sought is an injunction against
infringing a patent is one arising under the patent laws
of the United States, although it incidentally involves
a determination of the question of the ownership of the
patent. Cases supra,and Atherton Machine Co. v. AtwoodMorrison Co., 102 Fed. Rep. 949.

Cases arising under the laws of the United States are
such as grow out of the legislation of Congress, whether
they constitute the right or privilege, or claim or protection, or defense of the party, in whole or in part, by whom
they are asserted. Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257, at
264; Story on the Constitution, § 1647; Cohens v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 82; Peutz v. Bransford, 32 Fed. Rep. 318; White
v. Rankin, 144 U. §. 628; Adriance Pratt & Co. v. McCormick Harvesting Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 256; Wood Harvester Co.
v. Minneapolis Harvester Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 256; Reversible
Lock-Nut Co. v. Lock-Nut Co., 72 Fed. Rep. 60.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Mr Walter H. Bond for defendant in error:
The state courts had jurisdiction of the case at bar, inasmuch as it was merely an attempt to enforce rights arising
ex contractu. Victor Talking Machine Co. v. The Fair, 123
Fed. Rep. 424; Wade v. Lawder, 165 U. S. 624; Pratt v.
ParisGaslight & Coke Co., 168 U. S. 255. See McFarland
v. Stanton Mfg. Co., 53 N. J. Eq. 649; Biskey Mfg. Co. v.
Jones, 71 Coihnecticut, 113; Harrisv. Wallace Mfg. Co., 95
N. E. Rep. (Ohio) 559; Bates Machine Company v. Bates,
192 Illinois' 138.
Inasmuch as the equitable title to certain letters patent
passed by the agreement of September 15, 1903, irrespective of whether those letters are an improvement on
a former patent, it is not necessary to find that the former
are an improvement on the latter, in order to affirm the
judgment of the state court; and the state courts had unquestionable jurisdiction of the suit to enforce the specific
performance of the said agreement.
It must be treated as settled that before the granting
of a patent, an inventoi has a qualified property in his invention which is assignable. Burton v. Burton Stock Car
Co., 171 Massachusetts, 437; Cook v. Sterling Electric Co.,
118 Fed. Rep. 45; Topliff v. Topliff, 122 U. S. 121; Haines
v. Ryder, 100 Massachusetts, 216.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction of all
cases arising under the patent laws, but not of all questions
in which a patent may be the subject-matter of the controversy. For courts of a State may try questions of title,
and may construe and enforce contracts relating to patents.
Wade .v. Lawder, 165 U. S.624, 627. The present litigation belongs to this class. The controlling fact for determination here is whether patent 725,349 belongs to the

NEW MARSHALL CO. v. MARSHALL ENGINE CO. 479
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Marshall Engine Company, of New Jersey, or to the New
Marshall Engine Company, of Massachusetts. The complainant did not, by its bill in the state court, raise any
question as to the validity or construction of the patent,
nor did it make any claim for damages for infringement.
The suit was an ordinary bill for specific performance to
compel Marshall to assign to complainant the improvement on patent 342,702, in compliance with his covenant
for further assurance. If patent 725,349 was an improvement thereon, as on the face of the application and letterspatent it appeared to be, then the complainant was en-:
titled to a decree requiring Marshall to make a conveyance
which could be properly recorded for the protection of the
true owner.
Marshall had, however, in violation of his contract,
previously assigned patent 725,349 to the New Marshall
Engine Company, which took with notice of the prior
trhnsfer. This company, therefore, held the legal title
as trustee for the complainant. Under the circumstances
the state court had jurisdiction to pass on the question of
ownership, and to enter a decree requiring Marshall, as
patentee, and the New Marshall Engine Company, as
trustee, to make an assignment in due form to the complainant. This jurisdiction was based on general principles of equity jurisprudence, and did not present a case
arising under the patent law.
It is, however, urged that the state court was ousted
of the jurisdiction to enter a decree for specific performance, because the bill went farther and prayed that the
defendants, and each of them, should be enjoined from
manufacturing or selling the machines covered by patent
725,349. It is claimed that this was, in effect, an application and decree for injunction against infringement, and
could only be granted by a Federal court.
But the allegations of the complainant's bill do not involve any construction of the meaning or effect of pat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

ent 725,349, nor does it charge that the manufacture or
sale of engines by the defendants would be an infringement of the patent, or of any right of the complainant, if,
in fact, patent 725,349 belonged to the New Marshall Engine Company. The injunction was asked for only as an
incident of a finding that the title was vested in the complainant. "The bill must be regarded and treated as a
proceeding to enforce the specific execution of the contract
referred to, and not as one to protect the complainants
in the exclusive enjoyment of the patent right. .
It is to prevent the fraudulent violation of these contracts
that the complainants seek the aid of the court and ask for
an injunction." Brown v. Shannon, 20 How. 56, 57. As
said in Wilson v. Sanford, 10 How. 99, 102, "the injunction
is to be the consequence of the decree sanctioning the forfeiture. He alleges no ground for an injunction unless the
contract is set aside." Here the injunction asked for is
to be the consequence of the decree sustaining the complainant's title. It alleges no ground for injunction unless
that title is established.
The state court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter
of the controversy. The relief granted was appropriate
to the cause of action stated in the bill. The decree must
therefore be
Affirmed.

