ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.
223 U. S.

• 543 "

Syllabius.

only be escaped by indulging in one of two hypotheses,
either that the terms of the advertisement and specifications as incorporated in the assumed contract overshadowed and virtually destroyed the proposals resulting from
the bid of the claimant, which also was incorporated in the
contract, or conversely that the proposals which the bid
embraced had the effect of setting at naught the provisions
of the specifications. But if the first assumption were
indulged in, it would clearly result that there was no-right
to recover, since that right is based upon the theory that
the specifications are not binding and need not be complied with; and if the second were indulged, the same
result would follow, since it would then come to pass that
the contract was so irresponsive to and destructive of
the- advertised proposals as to nullify them, and therefore
cause it to result that the contract was one made without
the competitive bidding which was necessary to give it
validity.
Under the circumstances, therefore,
the court erred in
treating the contract as a valid agreement and in awarding
judgment against the United States.
Judgment reversed.

ONTARIO LAND COMPANY v. WILFONG.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 160.

Argued January 24, 1912.-Decided February 26, 1912.

Where the bill attacks the constitutionality of the state law as applied
by the state court, and the application of a case heretofore decided
by this court runs to the merits, the motion to dismiss will be denied.
The refusal of the courts of the State to consider as essential to proceedings to foreclose tax liens certain ministerial duties, the omis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

sion of which can in no way affect the rights of the property holder,
does not amount to denial of due process of law.
The tax laws of the State of Washington involved in this case are
clear and simple in their requirements; and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of that State attacked in this suit did not deprive
plaintiff in error of his property without due process of law, either
because of lack of compliance with the statute or of sufficiency of
notice to the owner or description of the property. Ontario Land
Co. v. Yordy, 212 U. S. 152.
Where a decision is based on two grounds either of which is sufficient
to sustain it, neither is obiter. Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Mason
City R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 237.
171 Fed. Rep. 51, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the Fourteenth Amendment of certain tax proceedings in the
State of Washington, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Arcadius L. Agatin, with whom Mr. William W.
Billson was on the brief, for appellant:
Lack of adequate description renders tax titles void
and the question is not foreclosed by former decisions.
The Ontario Land Co. v. Yordy, 212 U. S. 152; 44 Washington, 239, does not control this case.
The question in the Yordy Case did not depend upon
the sufficiency of description at all, and that question was
not involved, except as an abstract question. In this
case the question of description is vital, as a question of
jurisdiction and not as a question of due process.
The Washington tax proceeding is purely in rem. The
divestment of title through such a proceeding is manifestly impossible without a description of the property
affected.
The tax summons, notice, judgment and tax deeds are
absolutely void for want of description.
Jurisdictional and other defects render tax judgment
and deeds null and void. The judgment is void because
of failure to file application.
By § 4878, Bal. Code, under which service was at-

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.,
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

tempted to be made in the tax proceedings here

(invved,

the requirement for filing the complaint before publication is jurisdictional. Barber v. Morris, 37 Minnesota,
194; Murphy v. Lyons, 19 Nebraska, 689; 28 N. W. Rep.
328; Anderson v. Coburn,27 Wisconsin, 558; Witt v. Meyer,
69 Wisconsin, 595; 17 Ency. Pl. & Pr. 51-56; Kelber, Void
Judicial Sales, § 122; 35 N. W. Rep. 25; 61 Wisconsin, 185;
99 Missouri, 638; McManus v. Morgan, 80 1Pac, Rep. 786;
Klenk v. Byrne, 143 Fed. Rep. 1008.
Failure to file certificate of delinquency was fatal to
jurisdiction. Barber v. Morris, 37 Minnesota, 194; 33
N. W. Rep. 559; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350.
The tax judgment is void-for want of jurisdiction, because the tax summons is not in conformity to law. The
summons does not inform the defendants that any complaint was filed in court, or that it was filed at all. In
tax foreclosure proceedings, the form of summons and its
contents must conform to § 4878, Bal. Code. Williams v.
Pittock, 35 Washington, 271; Woodham v. Anderson, 32
Washington, 500; McManus v. Morgan, 80 Pac.'Rep. 786;
Bartels v. Christianson,90 Pac. Rep. 658.
The failure in the summons to state that the complaint
has been filed is a substantial departure from the statutory requirements for a summons, and, therefore, the
court acquired no jurisdiction to enter judgment and
the judgment entered thereon is wholly void. Brown on
Jurisdiction, § 41; Wade's Law of Notice, 2d ed.,,§ 1030;
26 Am. & E. Ency. Law, p. 692; Sutherland on Statutory
Const. 454-455; Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes,
333-337; Blackwell on Tax Titles, 287, 288; Odell v. Campbell, 9 Oregon, 298, 305; Lynam v. Milton, 44 California,
630; Hayes v. Lewis, 21 Wisconsin, 663; Kendell v. Washburn, 14 How. Pr. 380; Durham v. Betterton, 79 Texas,
223; Fernekes v. Case, 75 Iowa, 152; Black v. Clendinin,
3 Montana, 44; Caulkins v. Miller, 55 Nebraska, 601;
Delaware V. Bank, 77 S. W. Rep. 628 (Tex.); 20 Ency.
"

VOL. ccxxni:Z-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

Pl. & Pr. 1115; Cleffern v. Tomlinson, 62 Minnesota,
197.
The judgment is void because the summons required
answer "within 60 days after first publication" instead
of "within 60 days after the date of the first publication."'
Woodham v. Anderson, 32 Washington, 500; Thompson v.
Robbins, 32 Washington, 149; Bailey v. Hood, 80 Pac.
Rep. 559; Dolan v. Jones, 79 Pac. Rep. 640; Young v.
Droz, 80 Pac. Rep. 810.
The tax deeds are void because no notice of sale was
posted or otherwise given as required by statute under
which the deeds were executed. Bal. Code, § 1756. This
requirement is mandatory, and the failure to observe it
makes the sale void. Martin v. Barbour, 140 U. S. 634;
McCord v. Sullivan, 80 N. W. Rep. 989; Olson v. Bagley,
37 Pac. Rep. 37; Sweigle v. Gates, 84 N. W. Rep. 481;
Blackwell v.First National Bank, 63 Pac. Rep. 43; Baumgardner v. Fowler, 34 Atl. Rep. 537; Olson v. Phillips,80
Minnesota, 339; Rustin v. Merchants, &c., 47 Pac. Rep.
300; Alexander v. Gordon, 101 Fed. Rep. 91, 96; Black on
Tax Titles, 205; 2 Cooley on Taxation, 928-930 (3d ed.).
The record in the case at bar is entirely silent as to
notice of the sale being posted. This being so, the fact
should be deemed established that there was no such
notice, because the burden is on the tax purchaser to
show that the notice was posted, and objection to their
introduction in evidence on that ground shoulck be sustained. Williams v. Peyton, 4 Wheat. 77; Ransom v.
Williams, 2 Wall. 313; State v. Inhabitants, 52 Atl. Rep:.
238; Black on Tax Titles, 2d ed., §§ 346, 443; 2 Cooley on
Taxation, 915, 916.
The burden of proof as to notice of sale is not changed
by Bal. Code, § 1767, supra.
This statute only makes the tax deed evidence of the
proceedings at the sale; such as, that the sale was on Saturday, that it was at public auction and to the person offer-

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing to pay the amount for the least quantity of land,
that it was between the hours of 9 a. m. and 4 p. m., etc.
The rule of evidence provided by the statute quoted does
not relate to any proceedings prior to the sale. 2 Cooley
on Taxation, 3d ed., 1006; Wilson v. Lemon, 23 Indiana,
433; Breewman v. Bingham, 5 N. Y. 366; Westbrook v.
Willey, 47 N. Y. 458; Carpenter v. Shinners, 41 Pac. Rep.
473 (Cal.); Kepley v. Fouke, 58 N. E. Rep. 303 (Ill.);
King v. Cooper, 38 S. E. Rep. 924 (N. Car.); Johnson v.
Harper, 18 So. Rep. 198 (Ala.); Carriham v. Sieber, 82
Pac. Rep. 592 (Colo.); Pelham v. Beggs, 72 Pac. Rep.
1077 (Colo.); Ayer V. Dillard,33 So. Rep. 714 (Fla.).
Mr. Benjamin S. Grosscup, with whom Mr. Ira P.
Englehart was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit to quiet title to certain real estate situate in North
Yakima, State of Washington, against certain tax deeds
issued to appellees by the county treasurer of Yakima
County.
It was brought in the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Washington, Southern Division. A decree
was entered in favor of appellant. 162 Fed. Rep. 999.
It was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 171
Fed. Rep. 51.
The case depends upon the sufficiency of the tax deeds
which appellant assails in its bill, after averments of
diversity of citizenship, alleging the following: The land
is part of Capitol Addition to North Yakima and is
designated on a plat thereof as "Reserved." It appears
from the plat which is attached to the bill that the tract
is surrounded by blocks, the lines of which and of the
streets, if extended over the tract, would constitute it

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

blocks 352, 372, 353 and 373. The "Reserved" was
platted as Herman's Addition and a plat duly recorded in
the office of the county recorder of Yakima County on the
eighth of December, 1904, and since the execution and recording of the plat the "Reserved" has not been otherwise
known or designated than by lots and blocks, according
to the recorded plat. Before the recording of the plat
the "Reserved" tract was not known or designated by
any other than that name, and as a matter of fact there
were not upon the' map blocks or lots designated as blocks
352, 372, 353 and 373, nor any block or parcel of land to
which such description could be made to apply, and, it is
averred that, therefore, the description in the tax proceedings were utterly void on its face for the reason that it
does not describe any land.
In 1901 Yakima County commenced proceedings in
the Superior Court of Yakima County, the county being
plaintiff and Edward Whitson and a large number of other
persons were named as defendants, which included, among
other lands, blocks 352, 353, 372 and 373, Capitol Addition
to North Yakima. The proceedings purported to be
under the laws of Washington for the foreclosure of tax
liens and culminated in a judgment and tax deeds. A
pretended summons and notice were issued and published,
but neither appellant nor any person was ever made or
named a party defendant in the proceedings, either in the
application for judgment or in the tax summons or notice
as filed or published nor in the tax judgment, and the
owners of the blocks were designated as "unknown."
The judgment was entered by default, and neither appellant nor any other person ever appeared or answered
in the proceeding.
Appellees' claim of title rests exclusively on the tax
judgment and deeds and is based upon a certain decision
of the Supreme Court of the State in a case in which
appellant was plaintiff and one Jay Yordy et al. were

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.
223 U. S.

549

Opinion of the Court.

defendants, which case involved lands within the tract
designated "Reserved" herein, the decision of which was
based "upon pretended principles of law which the court
in that case applied in palpable violation of the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States."
It is alleged that by the 'law of the land' in order to
constitute a proper and legal notice under the Fourteenth
Amendment it is necessary that in a tax proceeding in rem
the description of the property sought to be sold must be
so full and clear as to disclose to persons of ordinary intelligence, without resort to infererices, what property
is thus intended to be takeil. It is further alleged that
the notice in the tax proceedings had not that sufficiency
and that, hence, to hold the judgment and deeds valid
would deprive appellant of its property without due
process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States., The protection
of the Amendment is claimed "and that because of the
aforesaid unconstitutional decision of the State Supreme
Court, the principles of which, if applied here, may deprive
your orator of its property in violation of the said Fourteenth Amendment, your orator invokes the protection
of said article in this case, and hereby claims protection
thereunder against the pretended claims of said defendants" (appellees).
There are other allegations, to the following effect:
The judgment and tax deed§ are void, because the court
was without jurisdiction of the proceedings because the
notice of summons does not contain the specification of
process, notice or summons as required by the laws-of
Washington, either in form or substance; that the summons was never served except by a pretended publication,
and that neither it nor the application for judgment or
complaint for the foreclosure of the tax liens was ever
filed in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court; that

"'

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

no certificate of delinquency upon which the proceedings
were based was ever filed in that court as required by the
laws of Washington, and that no complaint or application
for judgment was ever filed in the office of the clerk of the
court until the day of the entry of judgment.
That no notice of sale was ever given or posted as required by law, and that the sale by the county treasurer
of block 373 for $76.77 and block 353 for $76.77 was
wholly unauthorized by the judgment and in excess of
his authority; that appellant is willing and has offered to
pay into court the amount of taxes assessed against the
property which may be found to be justly due. A copy
of the decision of the State Supreme Court in the Yordy
Case is attached to the bill.
The answer of appellees denied the allegations of the
bill, and set up title under the tax proceedings and the
sale and deed thereunder.
They alleged that the land, by the description of
blocks, was taxed for state, county and municipal purposes for several years prior to September, 1902, and that
the taxes being delinquent on said blocks, the county of
Yakima filed in the office of the clerk of the county its
summons, notice and petition to foreclose the tax lien of
the county, the case being entitled, Yakima County,
State of Washington, Plaintiff, v..Edward Whitson et al.,
Defendants, and duly published the same "by law made
and provided." That thereafter, such proceedings being
had, a judgment and decree was entered foreclosing the
tax lien, the court adjudging the land subject to taxation,
and that the taxes. due upon it were delinquent, and
directed the land to be sold.
It is alleged that the judgment was duly filed for record
in the office of the clerk and recorded, and that the county
treasurer gave notice of sale and sold the property, as
required by law, to appellees, and executed a deed therefor
to them.

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WJILFONG.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

. It is further alleged that appellant had not paid taxes
on the land for many years, knew that taxes thereon
were delinquent, knew of the fact of assessment, and all
the subsequent proceedings and sale, "and permitted the
same to be conducted without making any objection
whatsoever," and is therefore estopped to claim any interest against appellees.
A motion is made to dismiss, on the ground that the
bill is based on diversity of citizenship, that the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals decided the case on questions of state and general law, and that the only question
of a Federal. nature has been decided by this court adversely to appellant in Ontario Land Co. v. Yordy, 212
U. S. 152, "thereby removing from the consideration of
the Circuit Court of Appeals any substantial Federal
question."
The motion is denied. The bill attacks the constitutionality of the state law as applied by the Supreme Court
of the State, and whether the Yordy Case applies runs into
the merits.
It will be observed that as grounds of suit the following
propositions are presented by the bill: (1) The insufficiency
of the description of the land, it never having been known
as lots and blocks but designated or marked on the plat
of Capitol Addition as "Reserved," and always known
and designated as such. (2) The court acquired no jurisdiction of the property because the notice of summons
was void on its face, for the reason that it did not contain
the specifications of process, notice or summons in such
cases required by the laws of Washington, and did not comply with the statute either in form or substance. (3) There
was no service of summons except by publication, but that
prior to the publication neither the summons nor the application for judgment nor the complaint was ever filed in the
office of the clerk of the Superior Court. (4) No certificate
of delinquency was filed in the office .of the clerk of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

court as required by the laws of Washington, and no complaint or application for judgment until the day of entry of
the judgment. (5) No notice of sale under the judgment
was ever given or posted as required by law, and that the
sale was in excess of the authority of the county treas-

urer.
All these propositions but the first rest upon the contention that the laws of Washington were not complied
with in the particulars mentioned. For instance, it is
contended that the certificate of deliquency was not filed
in the office of the clerk of the court and no complaint or
application for judgment until the day of the entry of
judgment. This is the most important of the contentions,
and we will first dispose of it.
The laws of Washington provide that any day after
taxes are delinquent the treasurer of the county shall
have the right and it is his duty upon demand and payment of the taxes and interest to issue a certificate of
delinquency against such property, the holder of which
may at any time after the expiration of three years give
notice to the owner of the property that he will apply
to the Superior Court of the county in which the property
is situated for a judgment foreclosing a lien against the
property. The contents of the notice and the time for
appearance are prescribed, and the county attorney is
directed to furnish forms to the certificate-holder.
After the expiration of five years from the date of
delinquency if no certificate has been issued the county
treasurer is required to issue certificates of delinquency
to the county and file the certificates with the clerk of
the court, and the treasurer shall thereupon, with the
assistance of the county prosecuting attorney, proceed to
foreclose in the name of the county the tax liens embraced
in such certificates, and the same proceedings shall be
had as when the certificates are held by individuals.
Summons may be served and notice given exclusively

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by publication in one general notice describing the property as the same is described in the tax rolls. The certificates of delinquency may be general, including all
property, the proceedings to foreclose may be brought in
one action, and unknown owners, described as such, and
all persons owning or claiming the property are required
to take notice of the proceedings and of all steps thereunder. And it is provided that the court shall examine
each application for judgment for foreclosing the tax lien,
hear and determine the matter in a summary manner
without other pleading and pronounce judgment as the
right of the case may be, for the taxes, penalties, interest
and costs, "and such judgment shall be a several judgment against each tract." Ballinger's Code, §§ 1749 et seq.
The certificate of delinquency was not filed. It was
issued as required by law, and a summons was published
and notice given that judgment would be applied for.
The application was subsequently made and judgment
rendered. This is shown by the judgment roll in the
tax proceedings which was introduced in evidence. The
application for judgment, after the title of the court and
parties, set forth the following:
"Yakima County, plaintiff in the foregoing entitled
action, by Win. B. Dudley, its treasurer and legal representative, respectfully relates as follows:
"That it is the holder of Certificate of Delinquency
issued on the 31st day of January, A. D. 1898, by Yakima
County, State of Washington, the same being for taxes
then due and delinquent, together with penalty, interest
and costs thereon, upon real property situate in said
county, assessed to the defendants herein for the years
and in the amount hereinafter stated.
"That no redemption of said property has been made,
and there is now due plaintiff herein on said certificate of
delinquency the amounts set forth below, following each
description, marked 'total."'

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

In the description is the property in suit, assessed to
unknown owners.
Foreclosure of the lien was prayed, and that judgment
be given against each piece of property.
It also appears from the judgment roll that summons
for publication was issued which recited that the county
held certificate of delinquency; that the taxes were delinquent, time for appearance designated to defend the
action or pay the amount due, and it was stated that in
case of "failure so to do," judgment would be rendered
foreclosing the lien. Judgment was subsequently entered
and the property ordered to be sold. The judgment
states as follows:
"This cause having this 2d day of September, 1902,
been brought to be heard upon the application for judgment foreclosing tax lien filed herein, and the defendants
and each of them having been duly served with notice
as by law required, and no appearance having been made
by said defendants, or either of them, and upon the proofs
adduced, it appearing to the Court that the statements
and allegations set forth in said application are true, the
Court finds as follows:
"That the plaintiff herein is the owner and holder of
Certificate of Delinquency issued on the 31st day of January, 1898, by the County of Yakima, State of Washington,
the same being for taxes then due and delinquent, together
with penalty interest and costs thereon, upon real property
situate in said County, assessed to the defendants herein
for the years and in the amount hereinafter stated. That
more than five years have elapsed since the original date
of delinquency of the taxes for the year 1895, which are
included in said certificate of delinquency."
But it is objected that it does not appear that the
certificate of delinquency was filed by the county treasurer
with the clerk of the court, and that the omission is fatal
to the validity of the proceedings.

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

To the contention the Court of Appeals answered that
the filing of the certificate was directory, not mandatory,
and, therefore, not jurisdictional, and to sustain this position cited Washington Timber & Loan Co. V. Smith, 34
Washington, 625. In that case the validity of foreclosure
proceedings was. attacked on the ground, among others,
that the certificate of delinquency was not filed in the
clerk's office before publication of summons, and it was
hence argued that the court had not acquired jurisdiction
of the property. The court, in the foreclosure proceedings,
made a nunc pro tunc order declaring that the certificates
were, in fact, filed before the first publication of summons
and not at the time the file mark upon the certificate
showed. The Supreme Court decided that the issue of
the certificate was the essential thing and gave the court
jurisdiction of the cause, and, having jurisdiction, and
it appearing by the record that the certificates were
filed in time, it followed that the point now raised
related to a mere irregularity, which should have been
raised in the foreclosure case. The court also ruled that
the correction was one that could be made during the
progress of the action, and that, therefore, the appellant in the case was estopped to raise the objection in
the Appellate Court. The court finally observed: "The
summons and its publication, we think, complied with the
law. The property owner was, therefore, within the jurisdiction of the court, and was required to take notice of
the action. The summons was by publication, it is true,
but under § 3, pp. 385, 386, Laws of 1901, 'all persons
owning or claiming to own, or having or claiming to have
an interest therein, are hereby required to take notice of
said proceedings, and of any and all steps thereunder."'
The language of the court, it must be admitted, is not
as precise in distinguishing the elements of its decision
as one would like, but we think the ground of its ruling
is that jurisdiction having been obtained by the issue

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

of the certificate and the publication of the summons, the
omission to file the certificate in the clerk's office is a
defect or irregularity to which objection must be made
in the case. In other words, the filing is not jurisdictional,
for the court expressed the view that the "delinquency
thought to be fatal" (the omission to file the certificate) ".

. . could in no manner affect the rights of

the appellants" in the action. The conclusion is reasonable. It would yield too much to technicality to give
to the omission to file the certificate the controlling effect
contended for by appellant. We have seen that the
certificate was exhibited to the court and constituted one
of the grounds of judgment.
As remarked by Judge Gilbert, speaking for the Court
of Appeals: "The revenue and taxation law of Washington
is exceptionally lenient to the delinquent taxpayer, and
offers him unusual protection in providing that his property may not be sold for delinquent taxes except upon foreclosure proceedings and after a long period of delinquency;
three years in the case of foreclosure by an individual
certificate holder

.

.

.

and five years in the case of

foreclosure by the county." In both cases there is public
notice given and proceedings in court, time and opportunity enough, we think, even to an accidental or negligent
omission to pay taxes, and more than enough to the calculated and culpable delinquency charged against appellants in this case.
The courts of the State have refused to consider as essential to the proceedings in court to foreclose the lien for
the taxes the omission of some merely ministerial duty of
an officer which in no way could affect the rights of the
property owner. Miller v. Henderson, supra, and Smith
v. Newell, 32 Washington, 369.
In this connection we may observe that the proceedings
in this case are the same as those passed on in OntarioLand
Co. v. Yordy, 44 Washington, 239; 212 U. S. 152. It was

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contended there, as here, that the proceedings were void
because of the failure to file the certificate of delinquency.
The Supreme Court of the State declined to consider the
contention, holding that it was not open, as the land company had not tendered the delinquent taxes as required
by the laws of the State. In this court it was not explicitly
urged except in a petition for rehearing. The rehearing
was not granted.
The other objections to the validity of the tax proceedings are presented in the briefs of appellant under two
heads as to the judgment and one as to the deeds, as follows: (1) The judgment is void because of failure to file
the application until the day of the entry of the judgment.
(2) The judgment is void for want of jurisdiction because
the summons did not inform the defendants in the proceedings "that any complaint was filed in court, or that
it was filed at all."' (3) The tax deeds are void because no
notice of sale was posted or otherwise given.
These grounds of objection are untenable. The laws of
Washington are as clear as they are simple in their requirements. They do not require a complaint to be filed before
the publication of summons, but provide for an application
for judgment after the publication of summons, and the
court is explicitly directed to examine the application and
to "hear and determine the matter without other pleading.?" There is a careful avoidance of complexity and expense. The property is proceeded against, and the procedure is made simple. The certificates of delinquency
may be issued in one general certificate in book form and
unknown owners may be proceeded against as such. And
it is provided that all persons owning or claiming to have
an interest in the property are "required to take notice of
the said proceedings and of any and all steps thereunder."
See Williams'v. Pittocc, 35 Washington, 271.
It is, however, contended that the Supreme Court of
Washington has decided that § 4878 of Ballinger's Code is

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

applicable to tax proceedings and that it requires "that
publication of summons shall not be had until after the
filing of the complaint." And it is hence contended that
the filing of the complaint before publication is jurisdictional.
The Supreme Court of the State has not decided as contended. -It has decided exactly the other way. Indeed, it
has held that if there were a total omission to file a complaint the judgment would not be void. Snohomish Land
Co. v. Blood, 40 Washington, 626. McManus v. Morgan,
38 Washington, 528, 80 Pac. Rep. 786, and Bartels v.
Christensen,46 Washington, 478, 90 Pac. Rep. 658, are not
apposite, being constructions of the statute before its
amendment in 1901.
In this connection is urged the very technical objection
that "the summons required answer 'within 60 days after
the first publication' instead of 'within 60 days after the
date of the first publication."' To sustain this objection
Williams v. Piltock, supra, is cited. It does not sustain
the objection. It would be surprising if it did.
The objection to the validity of the deeds is also without
merit. Under the laws of the State a tax deed is primafacie
evidence, not only of the validity of the deed and order
under which the sale was made, but also of the regularity
of the prior proceedings. Warren et ux. v. Oregon & W. R.
R. Co. (C. C. A. Ninth Circuit), 176 Fed. Rep. 336, and
cases cited.
This brings us to the first proposition of appellant, that
is, the insufficiency of the description of the land in the
certificate of delinquency and in the summons, judgment
and order of sale, and that therefore they were inadequate
for notice and due process of law. This contention, however, was considered in Ontario Land Company v. Yordy,
supra, and decided adversely to appellant.'
As we have seen, the proceedings in that case were those
involved in this. It was held that the company was

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. WILFONG.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

charged with notice of the platting and the condition
shown by the plat of the Capitol Addition to North
Yakima, that he had notice from the records of the listing
and assessment for taxation of the blocks 352, 353, 372
and 373, and that they would occupy the place marked
upon the official plat as "Reserved." The company also
"had notice," it was said, "that the track marked 'Reserved' was not otherwise listed or assessed for taxation,"
and that the blocks "were used by the authorities for
describing the 'Reserved' tract." The presumption of
knowledge thus arising was fortified, it was said, by actual
knowledge "that the authorities were attempting to assess and tax this 'Reserved' tract under the description of
blocks 352, &c." Both were grounds of decision. In
other words, the decision was not based alone on actual
knowledge of what property was intefided to be taxed,
but upon the sufficiency of the description to identify the
land in connection with the notice given to appellant by
the record. And this was not obiter. Union PacificR. R.
Co. v. Mason City R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 237.
A like presumption exists in the case at bar, and there
is testimony of like actual knowledge.
Judgment affirmed.

