OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus..

223 U. S.

PACIFIC STATES TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH
COMPANY v. OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 36.

Argued November 3, 1911.-Dbcided February 19, 1912.

The enforcement of the provision in § 4 of Art. IV of the Constitution
that the United States shall guarantee to every State a republican
form of government is of a political character and exclusively committed ,t Congress, and as such is beyond the jurisdiction. of the
courts.
The provisions of § 4 of Art. IV of the. Constitution do not authorize
the judiciary to substitute its judgment as to a matter purely political for the judgment of Congress on a subject committed to Congress.
Under § 4 of Art. IV of the Constitution, it rests with' Congress to
decide what government is the established one in a State, 'and its
decision is binding on every other department of the Government,
and calinot be questioned by the judiciary. Luther v. Borden, 7
How. 1.
A statute otherwis6 constitutional cannot be attacked in the courts
i on the ground that it was adopted'in pursuance of provisions in the
constitution of the State which render the form of government of
.'the State unrepublican in form within the meaning of § 4 of Art. IV
of the Constitution. The courts have no jurisdiction of the question; it is for Congress to determine.
Where the claim that one taked under a state statute is deprived of
property without due process of law is not based on any inherent
defect in the law, or infirmity of power of State to levy. it, but on
the ground that the government of the State is not republican in
form, the question is not within the jurisdiction of the courts.
The judicial power of the United States will not be extended so as to
interfere with the authority of Congress or of the Executive so as
to make the guarantee contained in § 4 of Art. IV of the Constitution one of anarchy instead of order. Luther'v. Borden, 7 How. 1.
Whether the adoption of provisions for the initiative and referendum
k in the constitution of a State, such as those adopted in Oregon in
1902; so alter the form of government of the State as to make it no
longer republican within the meaning of. § 4 of Art. IV of the Con-

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

stitution, is a purely political question over which this court has no
jurisdiction.
Writ of error to review 53 Oregon 162, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under §4
of Art. IV of the Federal Constitution of the initiative
and referendum provisions of the constitution of the State
of Oregon, ,are stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. S. Pillsbury,with whom Mr. Oscar Sutro was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The initiative and the tax measure in question are repugnant to the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
That Amendment controls the action of all branches of
the Government, legislative, executive and judicial. Ex
parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339-347; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356, 373; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Blake v.
McClung, 172 U. S. 232.
The initiative act under which the license tax is claimed
in this suit was "enacted" by a vote of 69,635 in favor of
the same and 6,441 against. The total vote for Governor
at this election was 96,751 so that 20,675 of the electors
did not vote on this measure.
To compel plaintiff in error to pay this tax would not
accord to it the equal protection of the laws, nor the protection of equal laws, because this exaction is peculiar to
plaintiff in &rror,and the few others included in these two
acts, and is based upon alleged legislation which, for said
period, is entirely different in character and in the manner
of enactment, from that which pertains to the taxation of
all other residents of the State Who have only been subject
.to tax laws passed by the Legislative Assembly.
The power of taxation belongs exclusively to the legislative branch of the Government; it is lodged nowhere else.
United States v. New Orleans, 98 U. S. 392,

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

Representation and taxation must go together. Harvard v. St. Clair DrainageCo., 51 Illinois, 135.
The test of the constitutio Ality of a statute is not what
has been done but what by its authority may be done.
Ames v. People, 26 Colorado, 83.
There can be but one source of legislation, but one law'inaking power in a State; that power must be a legislature
chosen and acting as contemplated by the Federal Constitution.
The-right of the taxpayer to a hearing as to the amount
of his tax, extends to the legislature when the same is
determined by that body. Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed.,
497; 2 Story on Const., § 1894.
The powers of taxation which might be exercised
through initiative legislation would be violative of the
implied rights to 'the protection of property which pertain
to every person under the Federal Constitution. Loan
Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 662.
By the initiative and referendum amendment no measure passed by' the legislature, affecting- taxation, can become a law until approved by, the people at a regular
general election, and none of the restrictions of the Constitution apply to measures of taxation so' approved or
initiated by the people.
The vote on this amendment was 44,171 for and 42,127
against. The' total vote for Governor at the same election
was 117,690, being 31,392 greater than the entire vote on
this amendment. Under the Oregon plan it is a majority
of those voting on aproposition, not a majority of all the
voters, which determines the result; so'that, under this
rule, the amendment in question was adopted by a fraction over 37Y pqr cent of those voting at the same election,
for Governor.
TheJ.jnitiative amendment and the tax in'question levied
pursuant to a measure passed i~y authority of the initiative amendment violate the right to arepublican for'n of

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. So

121

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

government which is guaranteed by § 4 of Art. IV of the
Federal Constitution. That guaranty is to the people of
the States, and to each citizen, as well as to the States
as political entities, and amounts to a prohibition against
the majority in any State adopting an unrepublican constitution. Appeal of Allyn, 81 Connecticut, 534; Cooley,
Const. Lim., 7th ed., p. 62.
The power of the people of a State to amend or revise
their constitution is so limited by the Constitution of the
United States that it cannot abolish the republican form
.of government. Koehler v. Hill, 60 Iowa; 543; Von Holst,
Const. Law of U. S., 236, 237.
As to the effect of the Constitution as a fundamental
restriction upon the people of the States in the formation
of their governments, see Patrick Henry's speech, Elliott's Debates, vol. III, p. 55; lack's Const. Law, 2d
ed., 262; Rice v. Foster,.4' Harr. (Del.,) 479; Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162; Martin's.Exrs.v. Martin, 20 N., J. Eq.
421.
The power of the majority of the people to impose upon
a State a democratic form 6f government, or to adopt
institutions violating the republican form, is one of the
powers which was not intended to be exercised by anyone
but to be wholly annihilated.:
Taxation by the initiative method violates fundamental
rights and is not in accordance with the law of the land
(U. S. Const., Art. VI). State v. Allmond 2 Houst. 612,
639. See also Martin'sExrs. V. Martin, 20 N. J. Eq. 421;
Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed., p. 62; Fiske, Critical Period
American History, 250.
The sovereign power of the States over their citizens
is subordinate tQ the power of the National Government
over its citizens. Koehler v. Hill, supra; Crandall v.
Nevada, 6 Wall. 35;..Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 76;
Story on the Const., § 318, vol. I, 227; Elliott's Debates,
vol. V, 239..

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

The citizens of the United States receive from the
Federal Government the protection of 'the rights Which are
conferred upon them by their national citizenship. The
majority of the people of a State cannot, even by amendment of the State's organic law, encroach upon these privileges. United States V. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 549.
Legislation by representatives elected for that purpose
is the distinguishing feature of a republican form of government.
The duty to provide a republican foirm of government
was originally assumed by the States; and it still remains
there. And the maintenance of the right is guaranteed to
the people of the States by the National Government.
Const , U. S., Art. IV, § 4; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 730.
Every citizen of the United States is entitled to the protection of the Federal Government in his right to be
governed by laws enacted only by representatives elected
for that purpose, and in accordance with a republican form
of government. Such is the "law of the land." Const.,
U. S., art. IV, § 6.a
As to meaning of the phrase "the law of the land," see
University of Maryland v. Williams, 9 Gill & J. 365, 412;
Murray v. Hoboken Land Co., 1g How. 272; E pare Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; E. pare AhFook, 49 California, 402;
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578.
The edidts of a multitude could not be the basis of due
process, however fair the steps prescribed. Laws must
emanate from the law-making power, and in a constitutional republic that power can only be a representative'
legislature created in accordance With the organic law.
The acts of a state legislature will not be declared .unconstitutional unless in 'violation of some constitutional
provision. The same principle must be applied to the
acts of the States. exercising their residuary sovereignty
through any other of the departments of government, or
through the people directly. Holden v.. Hardy, 169 U. S.
-

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

389; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; C. W. &
Z. R. R. Co. v. Clinton County, 1 Oh. St. 77, 87; Parkerv.
Commonwealth, 6 Barr. 507; and see Maynard v. Commissioners, 84 Michigan, 228, 239; Commissioners v. Moir,
199 Pa. St. 534; People v. Hurlbut, 24 Michigan, 44.
An oligarchy or a democracy is equally unrepublican;
each was equally hateful to the founders of our government, and each is equally subversive of the structure
which they erected. Lexington v. Thompson (Ky.), 68
S. W. Rep. 477; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244. And see
Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 657; Terrett v. Taylor,' 9
Cranch, 43; Bradshaw v. Rogers, 20 Johns. 102; Camp v.
Rogers, 44 Connecticut, 291; State v. Williams College,
9 Gill & J. 365; People v. Humphrey, 23 Michigan, 471.
Apart from the guaranty clause, all citizens of the
United States may demand government in conformity
with republican principles; No. 84'of -the Federalist Hamilton; XII'Hamilton's Works, 327; Madison, "Federalist"
No. 44; XI •Hamilton's Works, 370; 3 Elliott's Debates,
451; Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 161; United States v.
Cruikshank, supra.
The initiative is in contravention of a republican form
of government. Government by the people directly is
the attribute of a pure democracy and is subversive of
the principles upon which the republic is founded. Direct
legislation is, therefore, repugnant to that form of government with which alone Congress could admit a State'
to the Union, and which the State is bound to maintain.
For difference between a republic and democracy, see
Webster's Dictionary; Downes v. Bidwell, i82 U. S. 279;
Cooley's Const. Lims. 194; Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall.
162; In re Duncan, 139 U. S.461; 15 Jefferson's Writings, 452; Burgess, Pol. Science and ,Compar. Const.'Law,
Vol. I; Black's Const. Law, 28; Bartlett, Digest Election
Cases, 446; Ex parte Farnsworth, 135 S. W. Rep. 537:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in "Error.

223 U. S.

1 Story, Const. 388; Ex parte Anderson, 134 California, 74;
Yeaman's, "Study of Governmefit."
The direct exercise of the powers of government by the
people at large would remove from a republic the feature
which distinguisheg it from a democracy. That government cannot be'.said to be representative in which the
people at, large are the 'legislators. People v. Collins, 3
Michigan, 343, 399; State v. Swisher, 17 Texas, 441; Rice
v. Foster, 4 Hart. 479; Ex parte Wall, 48 California, 279;
•State v. Harris, 2 Bailey, 598; Feddralist,:No. 51.
.in ascertaining the meaning of the phrase "republican
form of government" the debates of the constitutional
conventions and the Federalist papers are of great importance, if not conclusive. McCullough v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 419; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 418; Pollock v:
Fat'mers' Tr. Co., 158: U. S. 601; McPherson v. Blacker,
146 U. S.1; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657.
The framers pf the Constitution recognized the distinction between the republican and democratic form of go vernment, and'careTully avoided the latter. "Federalist,"
No. 48; XII Hamilton's Works, 28; . 2 Elliott's Debatds,
253; 5 Elliott's Debates, 136 et seq.; 'and see 3 Elliott's
Debates, 225, 233, for views of John Marshall, afterwards
Chief Justice.
The extent of territory of the States alone sufficed, in
the judgment of the framers of the Constitution, to,cQndemn the establishment of. a democratic form of government. Federalist, No,'XIV; Hamilton's Works, Vol. XI,
101, 103; Madison in: Federalist, No. X; Hamilton's
Works, Vol. XI, 75.
The form of state government perpetuated, -by the
Constitution was the republican form with. the three departments .of government, in' force in all the States at
the time of the'adoption of the Constitution. 5 Elliott's:
Debates, 239.
Initiative legislation is invalid' because government by

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the people directly is inconsistent with our form of government.
The vital element in a republican form of government,
as that phrase is used in American political *science, is
.representation. Legislation by the people directly is the
very opposite, the negative of this principle. It can,
therefore, have no place in our form of government. Indeed, it has been repeatedly said to be contrary to and
subversive of the structure of our republic. In re Duncan,;*
supra; State v. Swisher, 17 Texas, 448; Rice v. Foster, 4
Harr. (Del.) 479; Clarke v. Rochester, 28 N. Y. 606, 633.
The well-known practices of adopting state constitutions by popular vote, and of local legislation in "town
meetings" furnish no precedent for the lodgmIent of legisfative power in the ballot-box.
The Federal Constitution presupposes in, each State
the maintenance of a republican form of government and,
the existence of state legislatures, to wit: representative
assemblies having the power to make the laws; and that
in each State the powers of government will be divided
into three departments: a legislature, an executive and
a judiciary, one of these, the legislature, is destroyed by
the initiative.
'State legislatures are a vital feature of ' our government;
the. Federal Constitution presupposes their existence and
imposes .on each State the obligation to maintain them.
The division of powers of the three departments in each
of the States is a prerequisite to the National Government.
Under the Constitution the state legislatures are the
agency to carry on' the relations between. the 'Nation and
the States.
The: word "legislature' in the Constitution means a
representative, assembly consisting of two houses, empowered to -make the law. Such was its meaning at the
(time of the adoption of the Constitution.
Words and terms are to beItaken in the sense in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

they were used when the Constitution was adopted.
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 542; Locke v. New Orleans,
4 Wall. 172; United States v. Harris, Abb., U. S. 110;
'United States v. Block, 4 Sawy. 211; Fox v. McDonald, 101
Alabama, 51; Bancroft, Hist. of U. S. IX, 260 et seq.;
Evansville v. The State, 118 Indiana, 426, 441.
Contemporaneous legislation .by Congress sheds some
light on the -meaning of the term "legislature" as used
in the Constitution. The initiative destroys the legisla,tive assemblies or legislatures which it is the implied
obligation of each State to maintain, for a legislature
must be the law-making power.
Unless supreme within its jurisdiction a legislative
assembly is not a legislature. Blackstone, Comm., Vol. I,
46; Law of the Const. 66; Federalist, Nos. 33, 75.
Two cobrdinate legislative authorities, each with equal
power of making, repealing and amending laws, would
be political anarchy and chaos..
The initiative overthrows one of the greatest safeguards
against the abuse of the power of legislation, to wit: the
system of a dual legislative assembly.
The provision in the Oregon constitution for direct
legislation violates the provisions of the Act of Congress
admitting Oregon to the Union. Act of Congress, February 14, 1859, 11 Stat. 383; Romine v. State, 34 Pac. Rep.
925; People v. Adams, 73, Pac. Rep. 866.
The State of Oregon-was admitted because its proposed
government was republican. The implied contract was
that the State would continue that form. Every person
within the State is entitled to that form of government.
The State cannot secede from the Union.. A change in its
fundamental law, repugnant to republican institutions,
is contrary. to the act of Congress admitting 'the State,
and is an impairment of the, obligation of the State to
preserve a republican form of government. Tiedeman,
Unwritten Const. of the U. S. 164.

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

It is the power of this court to maintain and preserve
this government against the attack of direct legislation
and the absolutism of numbers.
The questions whether the "measure" in issue constitutes due process of law and affords plaintiff in error
the equal protection of the law, and whether this "measure" in the method of its enactment violates the various
provisions of the Federal Constitution designated in the
opening brief, are contentions which this- court must
decide in the exercise of its jurisdiction and are not political.
Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1; Texas v. White, 7 Wall.
730; Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548; In re Duncan, 139
U. S. 449; Hopkins v. Duluth, 81 Minnesota, 189, cited
by defendant in error, do not sustain the contention that
the questions are political and not within the jurisdiction
of this court.
The courts have never held that a cause was not justiciable because it involved an interpretation of Art. IV, § 4,
but have in proper cases construed the language of that
clause. Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419; In re Duncan,
139 U. S. 449; Hopkins v. Duluth, 81 Minnesota, 189;
In re Pfahler, 150 California, 71; People v. Sours, 31
Colorado, 369; Kadderly Case, 44 Oregon, 118; People v.
Johnson, 38 Colorado, 76; Elder v. Colorado, 86 Pac. Rep.
250; aff'd, 204 U. S. 85; Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S.
519; South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 454.
The right to a republican form of government is a substantial right. Like the franchise to vote, it is a political
right. This has always been held to be within the protection of the courts. Capen v. Foster, 12 Pick. 485, 489;
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 369; Florida v. Georgia,
17 How. 478, 494; Virginia v' West. Virginia, 11 Wall.
54; Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135; Cohen8 v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 378.
If from the questions it appears that some title, right,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

privilege or immunity on which the recovery depends
will be defeated by one construction of the Constitution
or law of the United States or sustained by the opposite
construction, the case will be one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, otherwise not.
Starin v. New York City, 115 U. S.257; Osborn v. Bank of
United States, 9 Wheat. 824; Mayor v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 252;
Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 264; Railroad Co. v. Mississippi, 102 U. S. 140; Kansas Pac. R. R. v. Atchison R. R.
Co., 112 U.'S. 416; Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S.384, 385; Consolidated Gas Co. v. Willcox, 212 U. S. 19, 40.
The action of7 Congress in receiving Senators and
Representatives from Oregon and its approval of a constitution containing the initiative as providing a republi.can form of government does not control this court in the
construction of the language of the Oregon constitution,
or in passing upon the validity of any provision or amendment. to that constitution. Gunn v. Barry, 12 Wall. 610;
Homestead Cases, 22 Gratt. 266; Coyle v. Smith, 221 U. S.
559; McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1; Texas v. White,
7 Wall. 725.
The court has jurisdiction because the Oregon amendment providing for the initiative and the "measure" in
question deny due process of law and the equal protection
of the law. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Southwestern Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. City of Dallas, 134 S.W. Rep. 321; Telephone
Co.The
v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.280.
power to impose. taxes has in our Government
always been vested exclusively in the legislative department. It is a political axiom that the taxing power must
be exercised by the legislative arm of the Government
or by its authority: Meriwether v. Garrett; 102 U. . 472)
501; Heine v. The Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall. 655;
Munday v. Rahway, 43 N. J. L. 346; Cooley, Taxation, 32,
34; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S.345, 355.

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

.The guarantee of equal protection of the law is a guarantee of the protection of equal laws. Southern Railway Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 412; Yick Wo V. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 369.
The unconstitutionality of 'the acts of a State are
equally within the. jurisdiction of the courts, whether
they be the acts of the legislative or executive department
or of the people themselves, adopting their constitutions
or amending them. Cohens v. :Virginia, 6 Wheat. 415;
Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 332; Cummings"v. Missouri,
4 Wall. 277; Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed. 62; Koehler v.
Hill, supra.
Mr. John J. Dye -and Mr. Addison C. Harris, submitted a brief as amici curiwe, by leave of. the court, in
support of the contentions of the plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. M. Crawford, Mr. George Fred Williams .and
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. S. H. Van Winkle,
Mr. W. S. U'Ren and Mr. C. E. S. Wood were on the
brief, for defendant in error:
The power to determine whether a State has a republican form of government is vested in Congress. Hence
it is a political rather than a judicial question. Luther v.
Borden, 7 How. 1, 42; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 730;
Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548, 578; Hopkins v. Duluth,
81 Minnesota, 189; Article by W. A. Coutts, Vol. VI,
No. 4, 304, Michigan Law Review; 1n re Duncan, 139
U, S. 449.
If the question is a judicial one, courts of the United
States will follow the decision of the state courts, where
the state court has passed upon the question.. Luther v.
Borden, 7 How. 1,40; Leeper v. State of Texas, 139 U. S.
462-467.
The Federal authorities, including the 'Supreme Court,
h ve treated this as a political question. 7 How. '1, 42;
Cooley on Const. Lim., 7th ed., p. 59, 6th ed., p. 42.
VOL. CCXXiI--9

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. $.

This question does not lose its political complexion
because it has arisen since the admission of Oregon into
the Union of States. If the courts take jurisdiction of
these questions, then we have a decision upon a political
question, decided by the political power, reexamined by
the judicial and perhaps overthrown. One branch of the
Government becomes arrayed against another, and revPlution or rebellion is imminent.
It is not a decision upon one clause of the Constitution,
but the whole instrument is examined and considered,
and the plan or scheme of government there outlined
adjudged to be republican, or anti-republican, in character.
The State of Oklahoma was recently admitted into the
Union with the initiative and referendum principles reserved to the people. See §§ 2, 3, 5, Oklahoma Constitution.
While a court may decide whether an amendment of a
constitution has been adopted in the prescribed manner,
and whether it denies any constitutional right, either as
to property or person, it wouldbe an invasion of the prerogatives of Congress should the court below undertake
to decide whether the constitution of a new State seeking admission is republican in form, and to decide whether
it should become a member of the Union.
If the court decides to retain jurisdiction: A state constitution should not be held to contravene the Federal
Constitution unless the general scope and plan of government provided in the former is opposed to the general
scope and. plan of. government required by the latter,
to be maintained by the State. The initiative and referendum amendment is essentially republican in form as
guaranteed in the Federal Constitution, construed in the

light of the following authorities: Cooley, Const. Lim.,
7th ed., 59; Id., 6th ed., 42, 45: Federalist, Hamilton ed.,
No. 39, p. 301; No. 43, p. 342; Oberholtzer on the Referen-

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO.' v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

131 1

Argument for Defendant in Error.

dum in America, Chap. 45, pp. 368 and 369; 2 Story, Constl
5th ed., §§ 1815 to 1819, both inclusive. 1 Elliott's Debates, 406; 5 Id. 160; 15 Writings of Thomas Jefferson,
p. 17 (see Vol. XI, Federal Ed.,' p. 529); Chisholm v.
Georgia, 2 Dallas, 419, 457; In re Duncan, 139 U. S. 449,
461; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 42; Minor v. Happersett,
21 Wall. 162, 175; Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548, ,578;
Hopkins v. Duluth, 81 Minnesota, 189; People v. Sours,
31 Colorado, 369, 383; In re Andrew Pfahler, 150 California, 71, 77, 78; Ex parte Wagner,21 Oklahoma, 33, 36;
Kadderly v. Portland, 44 Oregon, 118, 144; Oregon v.
Pac. States Tel. Co., 53 Oregon, 162; Straw v. Harris, 54
Oregon, 424, 431; Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221.
The members of the Federal convention considered
a "republican form of government" to be a government
which derived all its powers from the great body of
the people.
Both the Federal and state courts have uniformly held
that the initiative method of enacting laws was not repugnant to the provisions of § 4, Art. IV, of the Federal
Constitution, either directly or by necessary inference.
Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 457; In re Duncan, 139
U. S. 449, 461; Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, 175;
Hopkins v. Duluth, 81 Minnesota, 189; People v. Sours,
31 Colorado, 369, 383; In re Andrew Pfahler, 150 California, 71, 77, 78; Kadderly v. Portland,44 Oregon, 118; 74
Pac. Rep. 710; Oregonv. Pac. States T. & T. Co., 53 Oregon,
162; 99 Pac. Rep. 427; Strawv. Harris,54 Oregon, 424, 431.
The executive and legislative branches of the Federal
Government have held, in substance, -that the reservation
of the initiative and referendum powers by the people of a
State is not violative of the Federal Constitution nor
hostile to a republican form of government. Senators and
representatives from States reserving those powers are
seated in the Senate and House of Representatives without
protest. When new States are admitted, the President and

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

Congress pass upon the form of government presented by
the proposed State,. and decide whether the same is in
harmony with the Constitution of the United States, and
they have in several cases approved state constitutions
reserving the identical powers attacked in the case at bar,
notably, Oklahoma and Arizona, and other States have
changed their constitutions to include those powers, towit: South Dakota, Utah, Colorado, Arkansas, Maine and
Oregon, without objection from any Federal authority, and
no question has ever been raised as to their representation
in Congress.
Also the right of the people to instruct their representatives in Congress and in the state legislatures, if it exists, is
an admission or acknowledgment that the supreme power
rests in the people, and we contend that such right does
exist.*
Inexpediency should not be considered. That is for
the law-making power of the State.
The act does not violate any of the provisions of § 1 of
the. Fourteenth Amendment.
Assuming that the act under consideration was lawfully
enacted the taxes levied thereby must be considered a
.valid exercise of the taxing power of the State in the light
of the following authorities: Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas,
217 U. S. 114; Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.
232, 237; Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 562; Kentucky
R. Tax Case, 115 U. S. 321, 337 ;Magoun v. Illinois Savings
Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 294; Am. Sugar Ref. Co. v. Louisiana,
179 U. S. 89; Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452, 468;
Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261, 268, 273, 274;
Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 226, 235; Delaware
Railroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206, 231; 2 Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 1095; City of St. Joe v. Ernst, 8 5. W. Rep.
(Mo.) 558; ProducersOil Co. v. Texas, 99 S. W. Rep. (Tex.)
157; State Tax on R. R. Gross Receipts, 15 Wall 284, 293.

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v., OREGON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It cannot be claimed in this case that a tax on gross
earnings is even incidentally a tax on intestate commerce.
Mr. George H. Shibley, Director of the American Bureau
of Political Research of People's Rule League of America;
Mr. Robert L. Owen, United States Senator from Oklahoma, Chairman of the National Committee, People's
Rule League of America, and Mr. J. Henry Carnes as
counsel, for the State of Oregon, filed a brief for the defendant in error.
Mr. George Fred Williams, as counsel for the States of
California, Arkansas, Colorado, South Dakota and Nebraska, filed a separate brief foi defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
We premise by saying that while the controversy which
this record presents is of much importance, it is not novel.
It is important, since it calls upon us to decide whether it
is the duty of the courts or the province of Congress to
determine when a State has ceased to be republican in
form and to enforce the guarantee of,the Constitution on
that subject. It is not novel, as that question has long
since been determined by this court conformably to the
practise of the Government from the beginning to be
.political in character, and therefore not cognizable .bythe
judicial power, but solely committed by the Constitution
to the judgment of Congress.
The case is this: In 1902 Oregon amended its constitution (Art. IV, § 1). This amendment while retaining an
existing clause vesting the exclusive legislative power in a
General Assembly consisting of a senate and house of
representatives added. to that provision the following:
"But the people reserve to themselves power tt propose
laws and amendments to the constitution and to enact or

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion.of the Court.

223 U. S.

reject the same at the polls, independent of the legislative
assembly, and also reserve power at their own option to
approve or reject at the polls any act of the legislative
assembly." Specific means for the exercise of the power
thus reseeved was contained in further clauses authorizing
both the amendment of the constitution and the enactment of laws to be accomplished by the method known as
the initiative and that commonly referred to as the referendum. As to the first, the initiative, it suffices to say
that a stated number of voters were given the right at
any time to secure a submission to popular vote for approval of any matter which it was desired to have enacted
into law, and providing that the proposition thus submitted when approved by popular vote should become
the law' of the State. The second, the referendum, provided for a reference to a popular vote, for approval or
disapproval, of any law passed by the legislature, such
reference to take place either as the result of the action of
the legislature itself or of a petition filed for that purpose
by a specified number of voters. The full text of the
amendment is in the margin.1
Section 1 of Article IV of the constitution of the State of Oregon
shall be and hereby is amended to read as follows:
SEVTION 1. The legislative authority of the state shall be vested in a
legislative assembly, consisting of a senate and house of representatives,
but the people reserve to themselves power to propose laws and amendments to the constitution arid to enact or reject the same at the polls,
,independent of the legislative assembly, and also reserve power at their
own option to approve or reject at the polls any act of the legislative
assembly. The first power reserved by the people is the initiative, and
not more than eight per cent of the legal voters shall be required to
propose any measure by such petition, and every such petition' shall
include the full text of the measure so proposed. Initiative petitions
shall be filed with the secretary of state not less than four months before the election at which they are to be voted upon. The second power
is the referendum, and it may be ordered (except as to lawi necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety)

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In 1903 (Feby. 24, 1903, Gen. Laws 1903, p. 244) detailed provisions for the carrying into effect of this amendment were enacted by the legislature.
By resort to the initiative in 1906 a law taxing certain
classes of corporations was submitted, voted on and promulgated by the Governor in 1906 (June 25, 1906, Gen.
Laws 1907, p. 7) as having been duly adopted. By this
law telephone and telegraph companies were taxed, by
what was qualified as an annual license, two per centum
upon their gross revenue derived from business done within
the State. Penalties were provided for non-payment, and
methods were created for enforcing payment in case of
delinquency.
The Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company,
an Oregon corporation engaged in business in that State,
made a return of its gross receipts as required by the
either by the petition signed by five per cent of the legal voters, or by
the legislative assembly, as other bills are enacted. Referendum petitions'shall be filed with the secretary of state not more than ninety
days after the final adjournment of the session of the legislative assembly which passed the bill on which the referendum is'demanded.
The veto power of the governor shall not extend to measures referred
to the people. All elections on measures referred to the people of the
state shall be had at the biennial regular general elections, except when
the legislative assembly shall order a special election. Any measure
referred to the people shall take effect and become the law when it is
approved by a majority of the votes cast thereon, and not otherwise.
The style of all bills shall be: "Be it enacted by the people of the state
of Oregon." This section shall not be construed to deprive any member of the legislative assembly of the right to introduce any measure.
The whole number of votes cast for justice of the supreme court at the
regular election last preceding the filing of any petition for the initiative or for the referendum shall be the basis on which the number of
legal voters necessary to sign such petition shall be counted. Petitions
and orders for the initiative and for the referendum shall be filed with
the secretary of state, and in submitting the same to the people he, and
all other officers, shall be guided by the general laws and the act subinitting this amendment, until legislation shall be especially provided
therefor. (1 Lord's Oregon Laws, p. 89.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

statute and was accordingly assessed two, per cent. upon
the amount of such return. The suit which is now before.
us was commenced by the State to enforce payment of
this assessment and the statutory penalties for delinquency; The petition alleged the passage of the taxing
law by resort to the initiative, the return made by the"
corporation, the assessment, the duty to pay and the
failure to make such payment.
The answer of the corporation contained twenty-nine
paragraphs. Four of these challenged the validity of the
tax because of defects inhering in the nature or operation
of the tax. The defenses stated in these four paragraphs,
however, may be put out of view, as the defendant corporation, on its own motion, was allowed by the court to
strike these propositions from its answer. We may also
put out of view the defenses raised by the remaining paragraphs. based upon the operation and effect of the state.
constitution as they are concluded by the judgment of the
state court. Coming to consider these paragraphs of the
answer thus disembarrassed, it is true to say that they all,
in so far as they relied up6n the Constitution of the United
States, rested exclusively upon an alleged. infirmity of the
powers of government of the State begotten by the incorporation into the state constitution of the amendment
concerning the initiative and the referendum.
The answer was demurred to as stating no defense.
The demurrer was sustained, and the defendant electing
not to plead further, judgment went against it and that
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Oregon.
(53 Oregon, 162.) The court sustained the conclusion by
it reached,.not only for the reasons expressed in its opinion,
but by reference to the opinion in a prior case (Kadderly
v. Portland, 44 Oregon, 118, 146), where a like controversy had been determined.
The assignments of error filed on the allowance of the
writ of error are numerous. The entire matters covered

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by each and all of them in the argument, however, are reduced to six propositions, which really'amount to but one,
since they are all based upon the single contention that the
creation by a State of the power to legislate by the initiative and referendum causes the prior lawful state government to be bereft of its lawful character as the result of
the provisions of § 4 of Art. IV of the Constitution, that
"The United States shall guarantee to every State in this
Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them: against Invasion; and on Application
of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened),, against domestic Violence."
This being the basis of all the contentions, the case comes
to the single issue whether the enforcement of that provision, because of its political character, is exclusively
committed to Congress or is judicial in its character.
Because of their absolute unity we consider all the propositions together, and therefore at once copy them. We
observe, however, that in the argument the second, fourth
and fifth paragraphs, for the purposes of discussion, were
subordinately classified, and these subordinate classifications we omit from our text, reproducing them, however,
by a marginal reference.:
i.

"The initiative and the tax measure in question are
repugnant to the provisions of section lof the Fourteerth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
which forbids a State to deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the law.
II.
"The initiative amendment and the tax in question',
levied pursuant to a measure, passed by authority of the
initiative amendment, violates the right to a republican

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

form of government which is guaranteed by section 4,
article IV, of the Federal Constitution.'
III.
"Taxation by the initiative method violates fundamental rights and is not in accordance with 'the law of the
land.' (U. S. Const., Art. VI).
IV.
"The initiative is in contravention of a republican form
of government. Government by the people directly is
the attribute of a pure democracy and is subversive of
the principles upon which the republic is founded. Direct
legislation is, therefore, repugnant to that form of government with which alone Congress could admit a State to
the Union and which 'the State is bound to maintain.2
1. The guaranty of article IV, section 4, of the Federal Constitution
is to the people of the States, and to each citizen, as well as to the
States as political entities.
2. Section 4 of article IV therefore prohibits the majority in any
State from adopting an unrepublican constitution.
21.

Difference between a republic and democracy.

2. In ascertaining the meaning of the phrase "republican form of
government" the debates of the constitutional conventions and the
federalist papers are of great importance, if not conclusive.

3. The framers of the Constitution recognized the distinction between the republican and democratic form of government, and carefully avoided the latter.
4. The extent of territory of the States alone sufficed, in the judgment of the framers of the Constitution, to condemn the establishment of a democratic form of government.
5. The form of state government perpetuated by the Constitution
was the republican form with the three departments of government,
in force in all the States at the time of the adoption of the Constitution.
6. The history of other nations does not furnish the definition of
the phrase "republican form of government" as those words were used
by the framers of the Constitution. They distinguish the American
from all other republics by the introduction of .the principle of representation.

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

V.
"The Federal Constitution presupposes in each State
the maintenance of a republican form of government and
the existence of state legislatures, to wit: Representative
assemblies having the power to make the laws; and that
in each State the powers of government will be divided
into three departments: a legislature, an executive and a
judiciary. One of these, the legislature, is destroyed by
the initiative.1
VI.
"The provision in the Oregon constitution for direct legislation violates the provisions of the act of Congress admitting Oregon to the Union."
On the surface, the impression might be produced that
the first and third propositions,-the one in words relating
7. Initiative legislation is invalid because government by the people
directly is inconsistent with our form of government.
8. The well-known practices of (a) adopting state constitutions by
popular vote, and of (b) local legislation in "town meetings," furnish
no precedent for the lodgment of legislative power in the ballot-box.
1.State legislatures are a vital feature of our Government; the
Federal Constitution presupposes their existence and imposes on each
State the obligation to maintain them.
2. The division of powers of the three departments in each of the
States is a prerequisite to the national Government.
3. It'is evident under the Constitution the State Legislatures are
the agency to carry on the relations between the Nation and the States.
4. The word "legislature" inthe Constitution means a representative
assembly consisting of two houses, empowered to make the law. Such
was its meaning at the time of the adoption of the Constitution.
5. Contemporaneous legislation by Congress sheds some light on
the meaning of the term "legislature" as used in the constitution.
6. The initiative destroys the legislative assemblies or legislatures
which it is the implied -obligation of each State to maintain, for a
legislature must be the law-making power.
7. The initiative overthrows one of the greatest safeguards against
the abuse of the power of legislation, to wit: the system of a dual
legislative assembly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the other in terms asserting "taxation by the
initiative method violates fundamental rights, and is not
in accordance with the law of the land," are addressed to
some.inherent defect in the tax or infirmity of power to
levy it without regard to the guarantee of a republican
form of Government. But this is merely superficial, and
is at once dispelled by observing that every reason urged
to support the two propositions is solely based on § 4 of
Art. IV and the consequent inability of the State to impose
any tax of any kind'which would not violate the Fourteenth Amendment or be repugnant to the law of the land
if in such State the- initiative or referendum method is
per'i'tted. Thus dispelling any mere confusion resulting
from forms of expression and considering the substance of
things, it is apparent that the second propositioh, which
rests upon the .affirmative assertion that by the adoption
of the initiative and referendum the State "violates the
right to, a republican form of -government which is guaranteed by section' 4 of Article IV of the Federal Constitution," and the two subdivisions made of that proposition, the first that "the guarantee in question is to the
people of the. States and to each citizen, as well as to the
States as political entities," and the second asserting
"section 4 of Article IV therefore prohibits the majority
in any State from adopting an unrepublican constitution," are the basic propositions upon which all the others
rest. That is to say, all the others and their subdivisions
are but inducements tending to -show the correctness of
the second and fundamental one. This conclusion is certain, as they all but point out the various modes by which
the adoption of the initiative and referendum incapacitated
the State from performing -the duties incumbent upon it
as a member of the Union'or its obligations towards its
citizens', thus causing the State to cease to be a government republican in form within the intendment of the

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

constitutional provision relied upon. In other words, the
propositions each and all proceed alone upon the theory
that the adoption of the initiative and referendum destroyed all government republican in form in Oregon.
This being so, the contention, if held to be sound, would
necessarily affect the validity, not only of the particular
statute which is before us, but of every other statute passed
in Oregon since the adoption of the initiative and referendum. And indeed the propositions go further than this,
since in their essence they assert that 'there is no governmental function, legislative or judicial, in .Oregon, because
it cannot be assumed, if.the proposition be well founded,
that there is at one and*the same time one and the same
government which is republican in form and not of that
character.
Before immediately considering the text of §4 of Art. IV,
in order to uncover and give emphasis to the anomalous
and destructive effects upon both, the state and national
governments which the adoption of the proposition implies,
as illustrated by what we have just said, let us briefly fix
the inconceivable expansion of the. judicial power and the
ruinous destruction of legislative authority in matters
purely political which would necessarily be occasioned by
giving .sanction to the doctrine which underlies and would
be necessarily involved in sustaining the propositions contended for. First.- That however perfect and absolute may
be the establishment and dominion in fact of a state. government, however complete mayebe its participation in and
enjoyment of all its.powers and rights as a member of the
national Government, and however all the departments of
that- Government may recognize such state government,
nevertheless every citizen of such State or person subject
to taxation therein, or owing any duty to the'established
government,' may be heard, for the purpose of defeating
the payment of such taxes or avoiding the discharge of
such duty, to assail in a court of justice the rightful exist-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

ence of the State. Second. As a result, it becomes the duty
of the courts of the United States, where such a claim is
made, to examine as a justiciable issue the contention as
to the illegal existence of a State and if such contention be
thought well founded to disregard the existence in fact
of the State, of its recognition by all of the departments
of the Federal Government, and practically award a decree
absolving from all obligation to contribute to the support
of or obey the laws of such established state government.
And as a consequence of the existence of such judicial authority a power in the judiciary must be implied, unless it
be that anarchy is to ensue, to build by judicial action upon
the ruins of the previously established government a new
one, a right which by its very terms also implies the power
to control the legislative department of the Government
of the United States in the recognition of such new government and the admission of representatives therefrom, as
well as to strip the executive department of that government of its otherwise lawful and discretionary authority.
Do the provisions of § 4, Art. IV, bring about these
strange, far-reaching and injurious results? That is to say,
do the provisions of that Article obliterate the division between judicial authority and legislative power upon which

the Constitution rests? In other words, do they authorize
the judiciary to substitute its judgment as to a matter
purely political for the judgment of Congress on a subject

committed to it and thus overthrow tlfe Constitution upon
the ground that thereby the guarantee to the States of a
government republican in form may be secured, a conception which after all rests upon the assumption that the

States are to be guaranteed a government republican in
form by destroying the very existence of a government

republican in form in the Nation.
We shall not stop to consider the text to point out how
absolutely barren it is of support for the contentions sought
to be based upon it, since the repugnancy of those con-

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tentions to the letter and spirit of that text- is so conclusively established by prior decisions of this court as to
cause the matter to be absolutely foreclosed.
In view of the importance of the subject, the apparent
misapprehension on one side and seeming misconception
on the other suggested by the argument as to the full
significance of the previous doctrine, we do not content
ourselves with a mere citation of the cases, but state more
at length than we otherwise would the issues and the doctrine expounded in the leading and absolutely controlling
case-Lutherv. Borden, 7 How. 1.
The case came from a Circuit Court of the United States.
It was an action of damages for trespass. The case grew

out of what is commonly known as the Dorr Rebellion in
Rhode*Island and the conflict which was-brought about by
the effort of the adherents of that alleged government

-sometimes described as "the government established by a
voluntary convention" to overthrow the established charter government. The defendants justified on the ground
that the acts done by them charged as a trespass were done
under the authority of the charter government during the
prevalence of martial law and for the purpose of aiding in
the suppression of an armed revolt by the supporters of

the insurrectionary government. The plaintiffs, on the
contrary, asserted the validity of the voluntary government and denied the legality of the charter government.
In the course of the trial the plaintiffs to support the contention of the illegality of the charter government and the
legality of the voluntary government "although that government never was able to exercise any authority in the
State nor to command obedience to its laws or to its officers," offered certain evidence tending to show that never-

theless it was "the lawful and established government,"
upon the ground that its powers to govern have been ratified by a large majority of the male people of the State of
the age of 21 years and upwards and also by a large

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1911..
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

majority of those who were entitled to vote for general
-officers cast in favor of.a constitution" which was submitted as the result of.a voluntarily assembled convention
of what was alleged to be the people of the State of Rhode
island. The Circuit Court rejected this evidence and instructed the jury that as the charter government was the
established state governfnent at, the time.the trespass occurred, the defendants were justified in acting under the
authority of that government.. This court, coming to

review this ruling, at the outset pointed out "the novelty
and serious nature" of the question which it was called
upon to decide; Attention also was at the inception di*rected .to the far-reaching effect, and gravity of the consequences which would, be produced by sustaining the
right of the plaintiff to assail' and set aside the established
government by recovering damages from the defendants
for acts done. by them under the authority of and for the
purpose of sustaining such established government. On
'this subject it was said (p. 38):
"For, if this cour is authorized to enter upon this
inquiry as proposed by the plaintiff, and it should be de-:
cided that the charter government had no legal. existence
during the period of time above mentioned, if it had been
annulled .by the adoption of the opposing government,•
then the laws passed by its'legislature during that time,
were nullities,; its taxes wrongfully collected; its salaries
and compensation to its officers illegally paid; its public
accounts improperly settled; and the judgments and sentences of its courts in civil and criminal cases null and void,
and the officers who carried their decisions into operation,
answerable as trespassers, if not in some cases as criminals."'
.
Coming to. review the question, attention was directed
to the -fact that the courts of Rhode Island. had recognized
the complete dominancy in fact of the charter government, and had. refused to investigate the legality of the

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

voluntary government for the purpose of decreeing the
established government to be illegal, on the ground (p. 39)
"that the inquiry proposed to be made belonged to the
political power and not to the judicial; that it rested with
the political power to decide whether the charter government had been displaced or not; and when that decision
was made, the judicial department would be bound to
take notice of it as the paramount law of the State, without the.,aid of oral evidence or the' examination of witnesses, etc." It was further remarked:,
"This, doctrine is clearly and, forcibly stated in the
opinion of the supreme court of the State in the trial of
Thomas W; Dorr, who was the governor elected under
the opposing constitution, and headed the armed' force
which endeavored to maintain its authority."
Reviewing the grounds upon which these doctrines proceeded, theit cogency was pointed out and the disastrous
effect of any other view was emphasized, and from a point
of view of the state law the conclusive effect of the judgments of the courts of Rhode Island was referred'to. 'The
court then came to consider the correctness of the principle
applied by the Rhode Island courts, in the light! of § 4.of
Art. IV, of the. Constitution of the 'United' States. The
error concerning that Article
contention of the plaintiff in'
was, in substantial effect, thus pressed in argument: The
ultimate power 'of sovereignty is in the people, and they
in the nature of things; if the 'government i$ -a free one,
must have a right to change their "constitution. Where
in -the ordinary course no other means exists of doing so,
that right of necessity embraces the power to resort to.
revolution. As, however, no such right it was urged could
exist under the Constitution,- be&Ause of the 'provision of*
§ 4 of 'Art. IV,' protecting each State on application of
the legislature or of the executivie, *when the legislature
cannot be-convened, against domestic 'violence, it followed
that the guarantee of: a government republican i -form
VOL. CCkxx--10:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

was the means provided by the Constitution to secure
the people in their right to change their government, and
made the question whether such change was rightfully
accomplished a judicial question determinable by the
courts of the United States. To make the physical power
of the United States available, at the demand of an existing
state government, to suppress all resistance to its authority, and yet to afford no method 'of testing the rightful
'character of the state government would be to render
people of a particular State hopeless in case of a wrongful
government. It was pointed out in the argument that the
decision of the courts of Rhode Island in favor of the
charter government illustrated the force of these contentions, since they proceeded solely on the established character of that government and not upon whether the people
had rightfully overthrown it by voluntarily drawing and
submitting for approval a new constitution. It is thus
seen that the propositions relied upon in this case were
presented for decision in the most complete and most
direct way. The court, in disposing of them, while virtually recognizing the cogency of the argument in so far
as it emphasized the restraint upon armed resistance to
an existing state government, arising from the provision
of § 4 of Art. IV, and the resultant necessity for the existence somewhere in the Constitution of a tribunal, upon
which the people of a State could rely, to protect them
from the wrongful continuance against their will of a
government not republican in form, proceeded to inquire
whether a tribunal existed and its character. In doing
this it pointed out that owing to the inherent political
character of such a question its decision was not by the
Constitution vested in the judicial department of the
Government, but was on the contrary exclusively committed to the legislative department by whose action on
such subject the judiciary were absolutely controlled.
Thecourt said (p. 42):

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Moreover, the constitution of the United States, as
far as it has provided for an emergency of this kind, and
authorized the general government to interfere in the
domestic ccncerns of a State, has treated the subject as
political in its nature, and placed the power in the hands
of that department.
"The fourth section of the fourth article of the constitution of the United States provides that the United
States shall guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government, and shall protect each of
them against invasion; and on the application of the
legislature or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be convened) against domestic violence.
"Under this article of the constitution it rests with
congress to decide what government is the established
one in a State. For, as the United States guarantee to
each State a republican government, congress must necessarily decide what government is established in the: State
before it can determine whether it is republican or not.
And when the senators and representatives of a State
are admitted into the councils of the Union, the authority
of the government under which they are appointed, as
well as its republican character, is recognized by the proper
constitutional authority. And its, decision is binding on
every other department of the government, and could
not be questioned in a judicial tribunal. It is true that
the contest in this case did not last long enough to bring
the matter to this issue; and as no senatofs or representatives were elected under the authority of the government
of which Mr. Dorr was the head, Congress was not called
upon to decide the controversy. Yet the right to decide
is placed there, and not in the courts."
. Pointing out that Congress, by the act of February 28,
1795 (1 Stat. 424, c. 36), had recognized the obligation
resting upon it to protect from domestic violence by conferring authority upon the President of the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

on the application of the legislature of a State or of the
Governor, to call out the militia of any other State or
States to-'suppress such insurrection, it was suggested
that if the question of what Was the rightful government
within the intendment of § 4 of Art. IV was a judicial one,
the duty to afford protection from invasion and to suppress domestic violence would be also judicial, since those
duties were inseparably related to the determination of
whether there was a rightful government. If this view
were correct, it was intimated, it would follow that the
delegation of authority made to the President by the act
of 1795 would be void as a.usurpation of judicial authoriiy,
and hence it would be the duty of the courts, if they differed with the judgment of the President as to the manner
of discharging this great responsibility, to interfere and
set at naught his action; and the pertinent statement
wasmade (p. 43): "If the judicial power extends so far,
the guarantee contained in the constitution of, the United
States is a guarantee of anarchy, and not of order."
The fundamental doctrines thus'so lucidly and cogently
announced by the court, speaking through Mr. Chief
Justice Taney in-the case which we have thus reviewed,
have never been doubted or questioned since, and have
afforded the light guiding the orderly development of
our constitutional system from the day of the deliverance
of that decision up to the present time. We do not stop
to cite other cases which indirectly or incidentally refer
to the subject, but conclude by directing attention to the
statement. by the court, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, in Taylor v.,Beckham, No. 1, 178 U. S. 548,
where, after disposing of a contention made concerning
the Fourteenth Amendment ''and coming to consider a
proposition which was necessary to be decided concerning
the nature and effect of the guarantee of § 4 of Art. IV,
it was said (p. 578):
"But it is said that the Fourteenth Amendment must be

PACIFIC TELEPHONE CO. v. OREGON.
223 U. S.

Opinion of-the Court.

read with section 4 of article IV of the Constitution, providing that: 'The United States shall guarantee to every
State in this Union a republican form of government,
and shall protect each of them against invasion; and on
application of the legislature, or ofo the executive (when
the legislature cannot be convened), against domestic
violence.' It is argued that when. the State of Kentucky
entered the Union, the people 'surrendered their right
of forcible revolution in state affairs,' and received in lieu
thereof a distinct pledge to the people of the State of the
,guarantee of a republican form of government, and of protection against' invasion, and against domestic violence;
that the distinguishing feature of that form of government is the right of the people to choose their own.officers
for governmental administration; that this was denied
by the action- of the General Assembly in this instance;
and, in effect, that this court has jurisdiction to enforce
that guarantee, albeit the judiciary of Kentucky was
unable to do so because of the division of the powers of.
government. And yet the writ before. us was granted
under § 709 of the Revised Statutes to revise the judgment
of the state court on the ground that a constitutional
right was decided against by that court.
"It was long ago 'settled -that the enforcement of this
guarantee belonged to the political department. Luther v.
Borden, 7 How. 1. In that case it was held that the'question, which of the two opposing governments of Rhode
Island, namely, the charter government or'the government
established by a voluntary convention, was the legitimate
one, Was a question :for the determination of the political
department; and when that department had decided, the
courts were bound to tike notice of the decision and follow
it..
It is indeed a singular misconception-of the nature and
character of our constitutional system of government t5
suggest that the settled distinction which the doctrine just

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223'U. S.

stated points out between judicial authority over justiciable controversies and legislative power as to purely political questions tends to destroy the duty of the -judiciary in
proper cases to enforce the Constitution. The suggestion
but results from failing to distinguish between things which
are widely different, hat is, the legislative duty to determine the political questions involved in deciding
whether a state government republican in form exists,
and the judicial power and ever-present duty whenever it
becomes necessary in a controversy properly suomitted
to enforce. and uphold the applicable provisions of the Constitution as to each and every exercise of governmental
power.
How better can the broad lines which distinguish these
two subjects be pointed out than by considering the
character of the defense in this very case? The defendant
company does not contend here that it could not have
been required to pay a license tax. It does not assert that
it was denied an opportunity to be heard as to the amount
for which it was taxed, or that there was anything inhering
in the tax or involved intrinsically in the law which violated any of its constitutional rights. If such questions
had been raised they would have been justiciable, and
therefore would have required the calling into operation
of judicial power. Instead, however, of doing any of these
things, the attack on the statute here made is of a wholly
different character. Its essentially political nature is at
once made manifest by understanding that the assault
which the contention here advanced makes it not on the
tax as a tax, but on the State as a State. It is addressed
to the framework and political character of the government by which the statute levying the tax was passed.
It is the government, the political entity, which (reducing
the case to its essence) is called to the bar of this court, not
for the purpose of testing judicially some exercise of power
assailed, on the-ground that its exertion has injuriously

KIERNAN v. PORTLAND, ORE.
223U. S.

Syllabus.

affected the rights of an individual because of repugnancy
to some constitutional limitation, but to demand of the
-State that it establish its right to exist as. a State, repub-"
lican in form.
As the issues presented, in, their very essence, are, and
have long since by this court been, definitely determined to
be political and governmental,. and embraced within the
scope. of the powers conferred upon Congress, and not
therefore within the reach of judicial power, it follows that
the case presented is not within our jurisdiction,, and the
writ of error must therefore be, and it is, dismissed for
,want of jurisdiction.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

KIER-NAN v., PORTLAND,' OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME CQURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 503

Argued November 3, 1911-.-DecidedFebruary 19, 1912.

Pacific .States Telephone Co'. v,"Oregon, ante, p. 11 8,tfollowed to the
effect that the determination of whether the government of a State
is republican in form withmn the meaning Of § 4 ofArt. IV of the"
Constitution is a political question within the jurisdietion of. Con-:
gress and over which the courts have no jurisdiction.
Where the record does not contain the petition for rehearing but the
opinion of the-state court denying it discusses at length the-Federal
question relied on here, this Icourt will infer that the subject was ineluded in the petition.
Quwxre: Whether'the plaintiff in a taxpayer's suit against a city to
enijoin
issuing of *bonds to build a; bridge over navigable waters
on the the
ground of unconstitutionality of the ordinance, can raise
the
question of 'lack ofconsent 6f the Government of the United States.

