OCTOBER TERM, 1011.
Syllabus.

223 U. 8.

To allow the immigration act its literal effect does not
repeal, alter, or amend the laws relating to the Chinese,
as it is provided that it shall not, in § 43. The present act
does not contain the clause found in the previous immigration act of March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 569,. c. 206, that it
'Shall not apply to Chinese persons, and, on the other
hand, as it r9quires deportation' to the trans-Pacific ports
from which such aliens embarked for the United States,
§ 35, 'it
is rather hard to say that it has not the Chinese
specially in mind.
Judgment reversed.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD CO, v.
F. W. COOK BREWING CO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 64. Submitted November 13, 1911.-Decided January 22, 191Z7
This court has jurisdiction of an appeal from the Circuit Court of
Appeals in this case, as the jurisdiction oE the Circuit Court did not
depend only on diversity of citizenship, but the constitutionality of
a state law and the construction of a Federal statute were also
involved.
Where relief in equity may be admissible under any circumstances at
all, the objection of adequate remedy at law comes too late when.
made for the first time in this court.
Where a common carrier threatens to abjure its functions and duties
a such in regard to a commodity, equity can graut relief to a dealer
in such commodity whose business would be rifmed by such'con.tinual action by the common carrier.
Beer and other intoxicating liquors are a recognized and legitimate
subject of interstate commerce.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. COOK BREWING CO. 71
223 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

A State canndt forbid a common carrier to transport intoxicating
liquors from a consignor in one State to a consignee in another State.
Until transportation of intoxicating liquor from one State to another
is concluded by delivery to the consignee, the article transported
does not become subject to state regulation.
TheWilson Act of August 8, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, does not apply
to interstate shipments of liquor until delivery to the consignee.
The Kentucky statute of 1906,, prohibiting common carriers from
transporting intoxicating liquors to "dry" points in Kentucky,
while. a valid enactment as to intrastate shipments, was not effective as to interstate shipments; in that respect it was an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce.
A state statute regulating shipments of common carriers, although
legal as to intrastate shipments, if illegal as to interstate shipments
imposes no obligation upon the carrier in regard thereto, nor affords
any excuse for refusal to perform its duties as a carrier.
Where the action of the common carrier is not discriminatory andthe
question is not an administrative one within the scope of the Interstate Commerce Commission, a question of general law as to the
duties of the carrier arises which is one for a judicial tribunal, and
not competent for the Commission; and the fact that the carrier
may have filed notice with the Commission does not give it jurisdiction of the subject.
Where reasonableness of, or discrimination in, rates, is not an element,
but the common carrier bases a refusal to perform its duty as such
on legislative enactmentp, a shipper can resort to the courts to compel him to do so without first obtaining a finding from the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Texas & Racific Railway v. Abilene Cotton
Oil Co., 204.U. S.246, distinguished.
172 Fed. Rep. 117, affirmed.

THIS suit started in a court of the State of Indiana and
was removed by the defendant, now the appellant, to the
Circuit Court .6f the United States.
The Brewing Company is an Indiana corporation, engaged in brewing beer at Evansville, Indiana, and sells its
product in state and ihterstate trade. The Railroad
Company is a Kentucky corporation, owning and operating a line of railway extending into many States, including
Indiana and Kentucky.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

223 U. S.

The complaint averred, that although prepayment of
freight had been tendered and every shipping regulation
complied with, the railroad company had refused to accept for carriage from Evansville, Indiana, to stations on
the line of its railway in the State of Kentucky, beer in
kegs and cases, consigned to points which were "local
option" or "dry" localities under the law of Kentucky,
and had notified complainant and the public that it would
discontinue receiving consignments of beer or other liquors
for points in the State of Kentucky where the local option
law of that State was in operation' The prayer of the bill
was that the railroad company be enjoined from so refusing to accept the product of the brewing company for
transportation from Evansville to such local option points
in Kentucky.
A preliminary injunction was issued as prayed. Thereupon the defendant removed the case to the Circuit Court
of the United States, upon the ground that there was
diversity of citizenship, and also because the case-involved
questions arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, namely, the validity of the law of Kentucky prohibiting the transportation and delivery of liquors to points in that State where the sale was pr6*hibited, and also as a case arising under the act ot Congress regulating interstate c6mmerce of February 4, 1887,
24 Stat. 379, c. 104, as amended June 29, 1906, 34 Stat.
584, c. 3591. An answer was then filed and the cause
heard upon bill and answer, with the result that the'
preliminary. injunction allowed by the state court was
made permanent and the railroad company enjoined from
refusing to. receive and carry beer from Evansville to any
point upon its line of road in the State of Kentucky, wet
or dry. An appeal by the railroad company to the Circuit Court of Appeals resulted- in an affirmance of the
order of the Circuit Court. For the, opinion, see 172 Fed.
Rep. 117.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. ii. COOK BREWING CO. 73
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Henry L. Stone and Mr. Philip W. Frey, with whom
Mr. George R. DeBruler was on the bribf, for appellant:
Shipments of beer or intoxicating liquor are interstate
shipments, and as such constitute interstate commerce,
and are regulated and to be governed by the provisions
of the Act to"Regulate Commerce and the amendments
thereto. See § 1, as amended June 29, 1906; § 3, commonly
known as the discrimination section, and §§ 13, 15 and
16, which presdribe the methods of civil procedure for the
enforcement of the orders of the Commission where the
carrier fails or neglects to obey the same. .
This machinery was provided by Congress for the
regulation of interstate commerce and the redress of all
grievances and was intended to be exclusive of all other.
remedies for all unlawful acts of the carriers. Central
Stock Yards v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 823;
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426; Howard Supply Co. v. Ches. & Ohio Ry. -Co.,
162 Fed. Rep. 188; Balt. & -Ohio R. R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal
Co., 215 U. S. 481; Danciger v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 154
Fed. Rep. 379.
The order granting the preliminary injunction is void,
because the state court of Indiana in which the suit started
thereby undertook to affect property and rights of the
parties beyond its territorial jurisdiction, or that of the
Circuit Court into which the case was removed. The
state court had no power to grant a mandatory injunction
requiring appellant to perform acts in Kentucky affecting
property in that State. 11 Cyc. 684; Western Union Teleg.
Co. v. West. & Atl. R. R. Co., 8 Baxter (Tenn.), 54.
After removal, it was the duty of the court below to
dissolve the temporary restraining order and dismiss the
action. Auracher v. Omaha & St..L. Ry.'Co., 102 Fed.
Rep. 1; Swift'v. Phila. & Reading R. R. Co., 58 Fed. Rep.
858; Sheldon v. Wabash R. R. Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 785.
A party on whose petition a cause is removed into the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

Federal court is estopped to deny the jurisdiction of such
court to render judgment against him therein unless on
the ground that the state court was without jurisdiction.
Cowley v. Northern Pac. Ry. Co., 159 U. S. 569; Mastin v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 827.
Even if the state court had jurisdiction, there was no
equity in the bill. It is not averred that. appellee was
without adequate remedy at law. In fact, appellee had a
,complete r'emedy at law for the recovery of.the damages,
if any, it had sustained by appellant's refusal to ship and
deliver shipments of beer offered by it for shipment, consigned to persons at the local option points in Kentucky,
whose licenses to sell intoxicating liquors had expired.
It is not alleged by appellee that it had any other kind
of customers in Kentucky besides those who were engaged in the sale of such liquors under licenses so to do.
The rule of the appellant not to accept, transport, or
deliver intoxicating liquors consigned to points in Kentucky, where the sale of such Iiquor is prohibitedby 'law,'
is reasonable and valid.
At common law a common carrier was not required to
transport all commodities; he was only bound to carry the
things which he was in the habit of carrying and which
were within his profession as a common carrier. Dickson
v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 5 Eng. Ruling Cas. 358.
Assuming the Kentucky act of 1906, prohibiting the
shipment of liquor into local option districts, to be invalid
as to interstate shipments, a common carrier which has
adopted a rule or regulation to. conform to the law as
written cannot be required by mandatory injunction to
accept liquor offered-for shipment from a point outside of
Kentucky for local option points within that State. 5 A.
& E. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 162; 4 Elliott on Railroads,
§§ 1465, 1466; Moore on Carriers, § 5, p. 98; Hutchinson
on Carriers, §§ 144-147.
Where it treats all of a class alike, a railroad company

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. COOK BREWING CO. 75
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

can make reasonable rules, and pan refuse to accept goods
for carriage; Harp v. Choctaw &c. Ry. Co., 118 Fed. Rep.
169; S. C., aff'd, 125 Fed. Rep. 445; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479; Int. Com. Comm.
v. Baltimore & Ohio Ry. Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 37; S. C., aff'd,
145 U. S. 263; Kansas Pacific R. R. Co. v. Nichols, 9
Kansas, 243; Johnson v. Midland Ry., 4 Exch. 367.
The question is whether the rule or regulation restricting the business is a reasonable one. The carrier cannot
arbitrarily refuse to carry a certain kind of goods which it
has every facility to carry, and the carriage of which will
not endanger its property, or the lives, property, health
or morals of others. It 'cannot be said that it is unreasonable for a carrier to adopt a rule that it will not ship
liquor into districts 'in which the sale of liquor is prohibited by state law, and into which the legislature has
declared that it shall be unlawful to ship liquor, although
the statute prohibiting the shipment is invalid as to
interstate shipments..
Carriers have some discretion, upon giving due notice,
as to what they will carry, provided all persons are treated
alike, without discrimination. The legislature cannot require the carrier to separate interstate passengers from
intrastate passengers, but the carrier may make the separation if it elects to do so. Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485.
The carrier ought not to be required to take the risk
of litigation and penalties. Under the statutes we are
considering the carrier must, in order to be sure that it
will escape the penalty, know that the goods have been
ordered by some person in the State to which they are to
be shipped, and if what purports to be an order is presented to the carrier, it takes some risk, unless it knows
that the order is genuine.. American Express Co. v. Commonwealth, 30 Ky. Law Rep. 207; Crigler &c. V. Commonwealth, 27 Ky. Law Rep. 921.
The risks are so great as to justify the carrier in making

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

223 U. S.

a regulation, upon due notice, that it will not carry intoxicating liquors at all into any local option district, and
that it will treat all shinuers, both resident and nonresident, alike.
The legislature of Kentucky has legally determined,
while dealing with, a matter within its jurisdiction, that
the shipment of liquor into the local option districts from
any point is dangerous to the ihealth, safety and good
morals of the people of that district, and the carrier has a
right to aid the people in avoiding that danger. It may
refuse to carry high explosives because of the danger to
life and property, although such explosives are essential
to the conduct of useful business enterprises, but the
theory upon which the statute in this case is based is that
liquor is not only dangerous to life and property, but to the
health and good morals of the people. See Adams Express
Co. v. Commonwealth; 5 L. R. A. (N. S.) 630; S. C., 92
S. W. Rep. 932, where the court said that an express
company could not legitimately thrust the shadow of its
greed between the people and their uplift.
See Champion v. Ames,'188 U. S. 321, upholding an act
of Congress prohibiting the carriage of lottery tickets by
express companies engaged in interstate commerce. See
also Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343.
One Who sells goods to be delivered in another State
may have the constitutional right to deliver them, but he
has no constitutional right to have them delivered by a.
carrier who does not profess to carry. that class of goods,
but refuses to do so for anyone, after giving due notice to
all. Cook v.. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 662; State v. Goss, 59 Vermont, 266.
A carrier may lawfully refuse to carry 'goods where
such service will be: exposed to peculiar and unusual
danger, for instance, to the fury of a mob. Pearson v.
Duane, 4 Wall. 605, 615.
Already Congress had made considerable progress :in

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. COOK BREWING CO. 77
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

providing restrictions upon the interstate transportation
of intoxicating liquors by common carriers. See act of
March 4, 1909, §§238-240; U. S. Comp. Stat., Supp.
1909.
The people of prohibition States and of localities in
other States who have voted out or prohibited the sale of
intoxicating liquors have long waited for an act of Congress positively prohibiting the transportation of such
liquors from points without to points within such States
and localities; and, in the absence of Federal legislation
to that end, it is within the lawful powers of interstate
carriers to establish reasonable regulations, such as this
record shows appellant unselfishly adopted, foregoing the
revenue to be derived from such traffic, after due notice
to the public, whereby they will not transport or deliver
such liquors to points in prohibition territory, no matter
whether the same be interstate or intrastate traffic.
In Kentucky to-day there are ninety-six "dry" counties, and only twenty-three "wet" counties. See Adams
Express Co. v. Kentucky, 206 U. S. 129; Milwaukee Malt
Extract Co. v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 73 Iowa, 98.
There is 'manifest and well-recognized difference between intoxicating liquors and all other kinds of merchandise. By the common consent of mankind the trade
in intoxicants is regarded as dangerous and a menace to
the public. Such liquor is an article which is in a class by
itself, and it is made by the Wilson Act of* 1890 subject
to the will of the State, and so it is competent for the
legislature to prohibit the sale of liquor in original packages by the consignee within the limits of the State,
although it may have been shipped from a point without
the State and thus have been the subject Of interstate
commerce. :Platt v. LeCocq, 158 Fed. Rep. 723.
Mr. George A. Cunningham for appellee:
This suit does not arise under the Interstate Commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellee.

223 U. S.

Act, nor does it arise under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and the appeal should be dismissed.
Empire State-Idaho M. & D. Co. v. Hanly, 198 U. S.
292; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 191 U. S. 405; Spencer v.
Duplan Silk Co., 191 U. S. 526; Bonin v. Gulf Co., 198
U. S. 115; 'Bankers' Mutual Casualty Co. v. Railway Co.,
192 U. S. 371; Cochran v. Montgomery County, 199 U. S.
182, 260; Chapman v. Brown, 207 U. S.88, 116; Empire
State-Idaho M. & D. Co. v. Hanley, 205 U. S.225; Weir
v. Rountree, 216 U. S. 603; St. L., K. C. & C. R. Co. v.
Wabash Co., 217 U. S.247; Bagley v. General Fire Ex. Co.,
212 U. S.477.
This is not a case in which the remedies provided by
the Interstate Commerce Act are exclusive. Those
remedies are exclusive only when it is sought to enforce
some provision of the act itself, and not when it is sought
to enforce a right theretofore, existing either at common
law or by statute, unless the enforcement of such right is
by the act committed to some other tribunal. Central
Stock Yards Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 823,
and Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426, do not apply, and see Danciger v. Wells-Fargo
& Co., 154 Fed. Rep. 379.
The state court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter
and of the parties, so that it was authorized to issue a
temporary restraining order.
Where a court has jurisdiction of the parties, especially
in cases of injunction and specific performance, it will
grant relief, even though the property to be affected is in
another State. Even proceedings in the courts of one
State may.be enjoined by courts of.another State where
the latter have jurisdiction of the parties. 1 High on Injunctions, 4th ed., § 103; 6 Pomerqy's Eq. Jur., § 670;
Eingarterv. Illinois Steel Co., 59 Am. St. Rep. 859, note;
Hawkins v: Irela~d, 58 Am. St. Rep. 534, note; Hayden
v. Yale, 40 Am. St. Rep; 232; and see C., B. & Q. Ry. Co.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. COOK BREWING CO. 79
223 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

v. B. C. R. & N. Ry. Co. et al., 34 Fed. Rep. 481; Hutchinson on Carriers, 3d ed., § 149; Bluthenthal v. Southern Ry.
Co., 84 Fed. Rep. 920.
As to the right to mandatory injunction in cases of this
kind, see Elliott on Railroads, 2d ed., § 1564, and authorities there cited. Mandatory injunction is the proper
remedy to compel a carrier to accept shipments of intoxicating liquors which it refuses because of void state
legislation. Dancigerv. Wells-Fargo & Co., supra; Crescent
Liquor Co. v. Platt, 148 Fed. Rep. 897.
The appellant has the right to make any rule that it
will not accept, transport, or deliver intoxicating liquors
consigned to points in Kentucky where the sale ofs such
liquor is prohibited by law.
As to the act of March 21, 1906, making it 'unlawful to
bring or deliver any intoxicating liquor into any local
option county or district of the State of Kentucky, and
imposing pena1ties, th6 Court of Appeals of the State of
Kentucky, in October, 1907, about six months after this
answer was filed, held that act unconstitutional and void
as to interstate shipments. Cincinnati,N. 0. & T. P. Ry.
Co. v. Kentucky, 104 S. W. Rep. 394; citing Heyman v.
Southern Ry. Co., 203.U. S. 270; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.
412; Lord v. Goodall, 102 U. S. 541, holding that the
transportation of intoxicating liquor from one State to
another is interstate commerce and entirely beyond the
control of the States.
Appellant admits in effect that it"
accepts and delivers
beer to all places along its line other than local option
districts. It is not the rule that it will not carry intoxicating liquors at all, and therefore does not bring itself within
the reasoning of those decisions that concede to the carrier the right to determine within reasonable limitations
what class of merchandise. it will carry. Should the appellant adopt a general- rule not to carry intoxicating liquors
at all, a somewhat different question may be presented;

OCTOBER' TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

423 U. S.

but even in such a case the courts would say that the rule
was unreasonable.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky has, since this litigation was instituted, decided the main question involved
adversely to the appellant, holding that shipments of the
kind involved in this suit constitute interstate commerce
and, are: entirely beyond the control of the State. Commonwealth v. McKinney, 131 S. W. Rep. 497; Adams Express'Co. v. Kentucky, 214 U. S'. 218; Kentucky v. Scott,
133 S. W: Rep. 766.
The control of all interstate shipments is vested in
Congress, and no State may make any law limiting the
right of a citizen of one State to purchase any article of
commerce in any other State and to have the same shipped
to him wherever he may be without regard to the laws of
any State. State V. Wignall, 128 N. W. Rep. 935.
Notwithstanding any effects of intoxicating liquors,
beer is recognized as an article of interstate commerce and
is entitled to the protection of the law to the same extent
and under the same conditions as other commodities.
Danciger v. Stone, 187 Fed. Rep. 823; S. C., 188 Fed. Rep.
510; Barrett v. City of New York, 183 Fed. Rep. 793.
after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON,

1. The jurisdiction ofithis court to entertain an appeal
in this case cannot be seriously controverted. The'jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was'not dependent alone upon
diversity of citizenship. There was involved not only the
validity of the law of Kentucky as a regulation of interstate commerce, but a question as to whether the sole
remedy in any such case was not by an application to the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
2. The objection that there was an adequate remedy at
law, assuming that the subject is one for any tribunal other

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. COOK BREWING CO.
223 U. S.

81

Opinion of the Court.

than the Interstate Commerce Commission, comes too
Ite, if ever available, the pbjection being now made for
the first time, so far as is discoverable from the record.
The announced purpose of the railroad company to abjure its function and duty as a common carrier in 'respect
of interstate shipments of all intoxicating liquors to localities in the State of Kentucky, where the Kentucky
local option. prohibition 'laws prevailed, threatened the
ruin of complainant's business, and relief by injunction
against such a continued course of conduct was certainly
one which in such 'cirdumstances might be granted. Where
the case is one in which, under any circumstances, relief
in equity may be.admissible, it is too late to say that there
was an adequate remedy at law only upon review proceedings. Kilbourn v. SUnderland, 130 U. S. 505.
3. The case was heard upon bill and answer. The de-'
fense is based solely upon the terms of the Kentucky act
of March 21; 1906, now § 2569-a, Carroll's Kentucky
Statutes of 1909, entitled an act "to regulate the carrying,
moving, delivering, transferring or distribution of intoxicating liquors in local option districts." By that act it is
made unlawful for any common carrier to transport beer
or any intoxicating liquor to any consignee in any locality
within the State where the sale of such liquors has been
prohibited by vote of the people under the local option
law of the State. A Violation.of the law subjects the offender to a fine of not less than fifty nQr more than one
hundred dollars for each offense.
.,,,.Upon the assumption that this legislation effectively
prohibited both state and interstate transportation of
such commodities within the State, the railroad company
notified all of its agents, in and out of- the State, to -refuse
to receive such liquors when consigned toany local option
point. This notification was by a printed circular letter,
which set out the full text of the act, and gave a full list
of all such local- option points. In express terms this
VOL. CCXXIII-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

notification applied to both inter- and intrastate shipments; and, it is averred, this circular was filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission. It' is not, however,
averre4 that the Commission either took any action
thereon, or that it was asked to take any action.
The legality of the attitude of the railroad company
toWard interstate shipments of intoxicating liquors to
local option points in Kentucky must turn upon the validity of that legislation as applied to interstate shipments.
By a long line of decisions, beginning even prior to
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, it has been indisputably
determined:
a. That beer and other intoxicating liquors are a recognized and legitimate subject of interstate commerce;
b. That it is not competent for any State to. forbid any
common carrier to transport such articles from a consignor in one State to a consignee in another;
c. That until such transportation is concluded by delivery to the consignee, such commodities do not become subject to state regulation, restraining their sale or disposition.
The 'Wilson act, which subjects such liquors to state
regulation, although still in the original packages; does
not apply before actual. delivery to. such consignee where
the shipment is interstate. Some of the many later eases
in which these matters have been so determined and the
Wilson act construed are: Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 41t2;
Vance v. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438; Heyman v. Southern Railway, 203 U. S. 270; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 214 U. S. 218.
Valid as the Kentucky legislation undoubtedly was as a
regulation in respect to intrastate shipments of such articles, it was most obviously: never an effective enactment
in so far as it undertook to regulate interstate shipments
to dry points. Pending this very litigation, the Kentucky
Court of Appeals, upon the authority of the line of cases

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. COOK BREWING CO. 83
223 U.S.

Opinion of theCourt.

above cited, reached the same conclusion. Cincinnati,
N 0. & T. P. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 126 Kentucky, 563.
The obligation of the railroad company to conform to
the requirements of' the Kentucky law, so far " that law
prohibited intrastate shipments, is clear, and to this extent its circular notification was Commendable. But the
duty of this company, as .an interstate common carrier
for hire, tp receive for transportation to consignees upon
its line in Kentucky from consignors in other States any
commodity which is an ordinary subject of interstate
commerce, and such transportation, could not be prohibited by any law of the State of such consignee, inasmuch
as any such law would be an unlawful regulation of interstate commerce not authorized by the police power of
the State. It is obvious, therefore, that in so far as- the
Kentucky statute was an illegal regulation of interstate
commerce, it neither imposed an obligation to obey, nor
affords an excuse for refusal to perform the general duty
of the railroad company as a common carrier of freight.
The fact that the circular notice of the company referred
to was filed with the Interstate Commerce Comniission
is incidentally stated in the answer of the company, and
this fact is now made the basis for an argument. that
neither the state court nor the Circuit Court had any jurisdiction, and that an application should have been made
to the Interstate Commerce Commission for an order re,
quiring the railroad company to desist from refusing to
transport such articles in interstate-commerce.
Why should the brewing company have made complaint
to the, Commission. What relief could it afford? There
was no tariff question. There was no discrimination
against shipments tendered by complainant and like
shipments tendered by other brewers to the same points.
There was no claim that the commodities tendered were
inherently dangerous to transport, or that the railroad
company did not have transportation facilities. Evans-

OCTOBER TERM, 191L
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

ville was not discriminated against in favor of like shipments to the same points. To say that there was a discrimination between shipments of intoxicants and Other
commodities does not make a case of discrimination or
preference where the denial of such shipments is based,
as is the case here,, wholly and solely upon an illegal
restraint upon that kind of interstate commerce, is to
reason in a circle, for the question comes back at'last to
the validity of the law forbidding such shipments. There
was no discrimination if the law was valid, and the result
must turn, not upon any administrative question or
questions* of fact within the scope of the power of the
Commission, but upon the validity of the legislation which
controlled the action of the carrier. That is a question of
general law for a judicial tribunal, and one. not competent
for the Commission as a purely administrative body.
The decision in the case of Texas & Paic Railway v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, is not applicable here.
The question there was one of the reasonableness of a rate.
Such a question is primarily one of administrative character, and the propriety of a.prior resort to the Commission to obtain a ruling upon the question of reasonableness'
involved the very heart of the whole statute. That there
might be uniformity in rate-making necessarily required a,
resort to thfat body as a basis for a common law recovery
of an excessive charge.
The result is that the decree of the court below must be

