NESS v. FISHER.,
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES EX REL. NESS v. FISHER,
SECRETARY 1 OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 66.

Argued November 15, 1911.-Decided March 11, 1912.

Congress has constituted the Land Department, under the supervision
and control of tile Secretary of the Interior, a special tribunal with
quasi judicial functions, to which is confided the execution of the
laws regulating the disposal of the public lands.
A decision of an executive officer, made in the discharge of a duty imposed by such a law, and involving the exercise of judgment and
discretion, may not be reviewed by mandamus, nor can he be compelled by that means to retract his decision so made and to give
effect to another not his own and having his approval.
The Secretary of the Interior made a decision that, under §2 of the
Timber and Stone Act of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat., 89, c.151, ihe statement that the land is unfit for cultivation, valuable chiefly for
its-timber, uninhabited, and contains no mining or other improvements, must be made upon the personal knowledge of the applicant,
and not upon information and belief, and the Court -of Appeals held
that this decision was right, and on that ground refused mandamus
to review it; this court affirms the judgment, but without examining
the merits of the question, and solely on the ground that the decision of the Secretary is one involving the exercise of judgment and
discretion of an executive officer which cannot be reviewed by mandamus.
That no writ of error or appeal lies in such a case by which the decision
of the Secretary of the Interior can be reviewed, furnishes no ground
for awarding mandamus. 33 App. D. C. 302, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve a claim under the Timber and
Stone-Act of 1878, and the power of the court to control the
decision of the Secretary. of the Interior in regard thereto
by-mandamus, are stated in the opinion.
..
'Originally brought against James R. Garfield, Secretary of the
Interior, and by successive orders continued against his successors,
Richard A. Ballinger and Walter L. Fisher.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. S. P. Ness was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The timber and stone law does not require, either directly or indirectly, that an applicant thereunder shall
have personally inspected the land. Adams v. Church,
193 U. S. 509; Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425,
462; Hoover v. Salling, 110 Fed. Rep. 43.
The departmental regulation operates to destroy rights
conferred by an act .of Congress, at least to the extent
of a large portion of the population. Hoover v. Salling,
110 Fed. Rep. 43.
The regulation is especially unwise and unjust as applied to the facts in the present case.
The Interior Department has not been uniform in its
construction of the law, notwithstanding the finding made
by the District of Columbia Court of Appeals. Although
the Interior Department has contended in the present
case, and the court below has found, that this construction of the timber and stone law has been uniformly followed for a number of years, the reported decisions of
that department show the contrary. See cases Gardner,
16 L. D. 560; McManus, 29 L. D. 653; Lewis v. Shaw,
70 Fed. Rep. 289.
The Interior Department has deliberately refused to
follow the opinion of a Federal court upon the point involved. Hoover v. Salling, supra; Featherstone Case, 32
L. D. 632; United States v. Wood, 70 Fed. Rep. 485; Robnett v. United States, 169 Fed. Rep. 778.
Thus two United States Circuit Courts of Appeal have
ruled contrary to the opinion of the District of Columbia
Court in the Wood Case, and in one of these instances
the question at issue was precisely the same as in the
Wood Case.
The departmental construction of the law would have
no effect upon indictments for perjury.
The argument advanced by the Interior Department

NESS v. FISHER,
223 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to the effect that the construction of the law contended
for by appellant would result in making it exceedingly
difficult to secure conviction for perjury on the ground
of false statements in the preliminary application is untenable.
There would be no object in committing perjury with
respect to the declaratory statement, since such statement
confers no title to the land nor even an equitable claim.
Campbell v. Weyerhauser, 161 Fed. Rep. 333; Board of
Control v. Torrence, 32 L. D. 472; Charles 0. Deland, 36
L. D. 18.
There would be no advantage gained by filing such an
application, because publication of notice must be made
immediately thereafter and failure to submit proof on the
day advertised results in the loss of all right and claim
whatsoever. Curtis, 33 L. D. 265; White, 33 L. D. 285.
This case should not be decided as one involving the
difficulty or facility of proving a crime, but rather as one
involving a departmental regulation changing the terms
of a law and depriving many citizens of rights granted
them by statute.
The preliminary statement is analogous to the initial
proceedings in a court of chancery rather than to those
under special statutory proceedings. Williamson v. United
States, 207 U. S. 459.
The District Court of Appeals cites six decisions of
the state courts. In all cases it was held that the affidavit
might be made not only by the party himself, but by his
attorney or agent, so that in reality they support contentions of defendant in error.
The court below has evidently overlooked entirely the
fact that in her affidavit relator set forth the source of
her information and belief, and likewise accompanied it
by the affidavit of her agent, an expert woodsman, executed upon personal knowledge. O'Neill v. Glover, 5 Gray,
144, 156.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

Any requirement is inconsistent with the act which
imposes upon the applicant a condition not required by
the law, and not necessary in order to hold the applicant
to a compliance with the law.
Such requirements as this have caused considerable
dissatisfaction with the Government throughout the public
land States, and have often resulted in retarding the development of unsettled portions of the country.
The Interior Department is not vested with jurisdiction
to change or to add to positive statutes in order to further
its own policy; on the contrary, it should merely administer
the laws as enacted by Congress.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel for defendant
in error:
The relator did not comply with the statute.
By express provision of § 2 it is the "person desiring to
avail himself of the provisions of this act" who is required
to file the written statement. All of the matters of proof
specified in § 2 are in clearest terms required to be set
forth in the statement itself. No additional witness. is
mentioned. No substitution by agent is allowed. It is
entirely manifest that all of the statements of fact for
which this statement calls must come from the applicant
and be vouched for by his own oath.
As the mere filing of the statement at once results not
only in the withdrawal of the land from possible acquisition by others, but also in the acquisition by the applicant
of an alienable right, Williamson v. United States, 207
U. S. 425, 450; United States v; Biggs, 211 U. S. 507, 520,
it was but ordinary prudence for Congress to require
beforehand definite and reliable assurance of the existence
of these material matters upon which the applicability
of the statute is made to depend. United States v. Wood,
70 Fed. Rep. 485.
The same view was taken in the Circuit Court for the

NESS v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Western District of Wisconsin. Hoover v. Salling, 102

Fed. Rep. 716.
The Land Department has always construed the act
as requiring the facts concerning the physical character
and condition of the land to be set forth in the statement
directly and not upon the mere information and belief of
the applicant, conceding, of course, as the statute expressly
permits, that no more than his belief need be averred on
the subject of minerals. See Circular of Instructions of
Aug. 13, 1878, Copp's Public Land Laws of 1875-1882,
p. 1456; General Circular of Oct. 1,1880, Copp, ibid, p. 277,
regulations, p. 302, form of affidavit; Circular of July 16,
1887, and form of affidavit, 6 L. D. 114, 117; General
Circular of Jan. 25, 1904, p. 41; see also 14 L. D. 436;
29 L. D. 653.
Concerning the force to be attributed to a continuous
administrative construction like this, there can be no possible question after the numerous decisions of this court
dealing directly with the subject. Unless the construction
be clearly erroneous, it should be adopted, even though
in its absence the courts might be disposed to construe
the statute differently. United States v. Moore, 95 U. S.
760, 763; Hastings, &c., R. Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357,
366; United States v. Hammers, 221 U. S. 220, 228. Hoover
v. Sailing, 110 Fed. Rep. 43, is the only instance in which
the correctness of the departmental construction has
ever been seriously questioned.
Robnett v. United States, 196 Fed. Rep. 778, follows
Hoover v. Salling to the extent of holding that the express
statements that the applicant has personally examined
the land and has personal knowledge concerning it, which
the statute does not in terms require, cannot be made
the basis of a perjury prosecution under §2. It does not
decide that a statement made on mere information and
belief would be a compliance with that section.
Mandamus does not lie in this case, and the case should

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

have been dismissed below for lack of jurisdiction. Roberts v. Valentine, 13 App. D. C. 38, 46; Roberts v. United
States, 176 U. S. 221, 231, do not apply, but see United
States v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, by which this case is controlled.
Mandamus will not issue unless the duty sought to be
enforced be plain and positive; it must be clearly prescribed and enjoined by the law. Merrill on Mandamus,
§ 57; International Contracting Co. v. Lamont, 155 U. S.
'303, 308; Ex parte Cutting, 94 U. S. 14, 19; Redfield v.
Windom,'137 U. S. 636, 644.
The Land Department is a special tribunal constituted
by law for the express purpose of administering the statutes relating to the disposition of the lands and therein
of deciding all questions and controversies arising under
them. Knight v. Land Association, 142 U. S. 161, 181;
Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316, 324.
The responsibility as well as the power rests with the
Secretary, uncontrolled by the courts. Kimberlin v.
Commission, 104 Fed. Rep. 653; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173
U. S. 473, 476; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60, 68.
The case of Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249; Noble v.
Union River Logging Railroad Co., 147 U. S. 165, and
American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187
U. S. 94, have no possible application here. In each of
those cases the action complained of was ultra vires--entirely beyond the scope of the authority of the official
performing, it, and tended, in addition, to destroy or
injure vested property rights.
This case approaches closely, if indeed it be not clearly
in principle, an action against the United States. Oregonv.
Hitchcock, supra; Louisiana v. Garfield, 211 U. S. 70;
Conley v. Ballinger, 216 U. S. 84.
MR. JuSTcE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a petition, in the Supreme Court of the District

NESS v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Columbia, for a writ of mandamus to compel the Secretary -of the Interior to accept, as conforming" to the
Timber and Stone Act of June'3, 1878, 20 Stat. 89, c. 151,
an application to purchase under that act 160 acres of
.public land in the Roseberg, Oregon, land district. The
respondent answered, but the answer was held insufficient
upon demurrer, and judgment was entered awarding the
writ as prayed. An appeal to the Court of Appeals resulted in a reversal of the judgment, with a direction that
the petition be dismissed, 33 App. D. C. 302, and that
ruling is now here for review. Briefly stated, the material
facts are these: Being desirous of purchasing the land under
the Timber and Stone Act, the relator, Mary S. Ness,
filed in the proper local land office a written application,
which fully conformed to the statutory requirements,,
unless it was objectionable in that it disclosed that she had
not personally examined the land and that her statement
that it was unfit for cultivation, valuable chiefly for its
timber, uninhabited and contained no mining or other
improvements was made upon information and belief
and not 'upon personal knowledge. The register and
receiver ruled that the application was objectionable in
that regard and therefore rejected it, subject to her right
to appeal. Successive appeals by her to the Commissioner of the General Land Office and-the Secretary of the
Interior resulted in an affirmance of the ruling of the local
officers, the decision of the Secretary being -adhered to
upon a motion for review. Soon after the act was passed
it was construed by the Land Department as requiring
that in applications. thereunder the statement respecting
the character and condition of the land be made upon the
personal knowledge of the applicant, save in the particulars which the act declares may be stated upon belief, and
it was because of this construction, disclosed in repeated
decisions of the Secretary of the Interior and in the regulations issued under the act (see 6 Land Dec. 114; 11 LandvoL. ccxxiii-44

OCTOBER.TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Dec. 599; 32 Land Dec. 631), that this application was
rejected. After its final rejection, that is, after the decision of the Secretary on the motion for review, one William
A. Taylor made application at the local land office to
purchase the land under the same act, and his application,
which appeared to be in conformity with the statutory
requirements, was accepted by the local officers and was
being carried to final, entry when this petition and the
answer were filed.
The answer concluded by alleging, in substance, that
the respondent was the head of the Land Department, to
which the law committed the administration of the Timber
and Stone Act and other public land laws; that the duty of
determining whether the relator's application conformed
to the statutory requirements was not mere!y ministerial, but involved the exercise of judgmhent and discretion;
that to compel him to accept that application would be
to control his judgment and discretion, and to require
him to. disregard his own decision, in a matter falling
within his lawful authority, and that a writ of mandamus
could not be used to that end.
Section 2 of the act reads as follows:
"That any. person desiring to avail himnself of the provisions of this act shall file with the register of the, proper
-district a written statement in duplicate, one of which is
to be transmitted to the General Land Office, designating
by legal subdivisions the particular tract of land he desires
to purchase, setting forth that the same is unfit for cultivation, and valuable chiefly for its timber or stone; that it
is uninhabited; contains no mining or other improvements,
except for ditch or canal purposes, where any such do
exist, save such as were made by or belonged to the applicant, nor, as deponent verily believes, any valuable deposit

of gold, silver, cinnabar, copper, or coal; that deponent
has made no other application under this act; that he
does not apply to purchase the same on speculation,

NESS v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but in good faith to appropriate it to his own exclusive use
and benefit; and'that he has not, directly or indirectly,
made any agreement or contract, in any way or manner,
with any person or persons whatsoever, by which the
title which he might acquire from the government of the
United States should inure, in whole or in part, to the
benefit of any person except himself;, which statement
must be verified by the oath of the applicant before the
register or the receiver of the land office within the district
where the land is situated; and if any person taking such,
oath shall swear falsely in the premises, he shall be subject
to all the pains and penalties of perjury, and shall forfeit
the money which he may have paid for said lands, and all
right and title to the same; and any grant or conveyance
which he may have made, except in the hands of bona fide
purchasers, shall be null and void."
The Secretary's decision, rejecting the relator's application, was not arbitrary or capricious, but was based upon
a construction of § 2 which was at least a possible one, had
long prevailed in the Land Department, had been approved
in United States v. Wood, 70 Fed. Rep. 485, and Hoover v.
Salling, 102 Fed. Rep. 7.16, and has since been sustained by
the Court of Appeals in the present case. True, a different
construction had been adopted in Hoover v. Sailing, 110
Fed. Rep. 43, and has since been followed in Robnett v.
United States, 169 Fed. Rep. 778, but this, instead of indicating that the Secretary's decision was arbitrary or
capricious, illustrates that there was room for difference
of opinion as to the true construction of the section, and
that to determine whether the relator's application confornfed thereto necessarily involved the exercise of judgment and discretion.
So, at the outset we are confronted with the question,
not whether the decision of the Secretary Was right or
wrong, but whether a decision of that officer, made in the
discharge of a duty imposed by law and involving the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

exercise of judgment and discretion, may be reviewed by
mandamus and he be compelled to retract it, and to give
effect to another not his own and not having his approval.
The question is not new, but has been often considered bythis court and uniformly answered in the negative.
Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497, 515; United States ex rel.
Tucker v. Seaman, 17 How. 225,, 230; Gaines v. Thompson,
7 Wall. 347; Litchfield v. Register and Receiver, 9 Wall.
575; United States ex rel. McBride v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378;
United States ex rel. Dunlap v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, 48;
Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316, 324. Original
discussion being foreclosed by these cases, we will merely
quote from two of them to illustrate the reasoning upon
which they proceed. In the Decatur Case it was held that
mandamus could not be awarded to compel the head of
one of the executive departments to allow a claim, under
one construction of a resolution of Congress, which he
had disallowed under another construction, the court
saying: ."The duty required by the resolution was to be
performed by him as the head of one of
the executive
departments of the government, in the ordinary discharge
of his official duties. In general, such duties, whether
imposed by act of congress or by resolution, are not mere
ministerial duties. The head of an executive department
of the government, in the administration of the various
and 'important concerns of his office, is continually required to exercise judgment and discretion. 'He must
exercise his judgment in expounding the laws and resolutions of congress, under which he is from time to time
required to act. . . . If a suit should come before
this court, which involved the construction of any 'of these
laws, the court certainly would not be bound to adopt the
construction given by the head of a department. And if
they supposed his decision to be wrong, they would, of
course, so pronounce their judgment. But their judgment
upon the construction of a law must be given in a case in

NESS v. FPISHER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

which they have jurisdiction, and in which it is their duty
to interpret the act of congress, -in order to ascertain the
rights of the parties in the cause before them. The court
could not entertain an appeal from the decision of one of
the secretaries, nor revise his judgment in any case where
the law authorized him to exercise discretion or judgment.
Nor can it by mandamus, act directly upon the officer,
and guide and control his judgment or discretion in the
matters committed to his care, in the ordinary discharge
of his official duties.

.

.

The interference of the

courts with the performance of the ordinary duties of the
executive departments of the government, would be productive of nothing -but mischief; and we are quite satisfied
that such a power was never intended to be given to them."
And in the Riverside Oil Co. Case, where it was sought by

mandamus to compel the Secretary of the Interior to
depart from a decision of his, to the effect that a forest
reserve lieu-land selection must be accompanied by an
affidavit that the selected land was non-mineral in character and unoccupied, it was held that his judgment and
discretion could not be thus controlled, it being said
(p. 324): "Congress has constituted the Land Department,
under the supervision and control of the Secretary of the
Interior, a special tribunal with judicial functions, to
which is confided the execution of the laws which regulate
the purchase, selling and care and disposition of the public
lands.'...

Whether he'decided right or wrong, is

not the question. Having jurisdicti6n to- decide at all,
he had necessarily jurisdiction, and it was his duty to
decide as he thought the law was, and the courts have no
power whatever under those circumstances to review his
determination by mandamus or injunction. The court has
no general supervisory power over the officers of the Land
Department, by which to control their decisions upon
questions within their jurisdiction. If this writ were

granted we would require the Secretary of the Interior to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

repudiate and disaffirm a decision which he regarded it
his duty to make in the exercise of that judgment which
is reposed in him by law, and we should require him to
come to a determination upon the issues involved directly
opposite to that which he had reached, and which the law
conferred upon him the jurisdiction to make. Mandamus
has never been regarded as the proper writ to control the
judgment and discretion of an officer as to the decision
of a matter which the law gave him the power and imposed
upon him the duty to decide for himself. The writ never
can be used as a substitute for a writ of error. Nor does
the fact that no writ of error will lie in such a case as this,
by which to review the judgment of the Secretary, furnish
any foundation for the claim that mandamus may therefore be awarded. The responsibility as well as the power
rests with the Secretary, uncontrolled by the courts."
The relator seems to believe that Roberts v. United
States, 176 U. S. 221, and Garfieldv. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249,

in some. way qualify the rule so stated; but this is a mistaken belief. Both cases expressly recognize that rule
and neither discloses any purpose to qualify it. In the
former the duty directed to be performed was declared to
be "at once plain, imperative, and entirely ministerial."
And in the latter the writ was awarded to compel the
respondent to erase and disregard a notation' which he
arbitrarily and unwarrantably had caused to be made
upon a public record, and which beclouded the relator's
right to an Indian allotment.
We conclude that the decision of the respondent in
the present case was not arbitrary or merely ministerial,
but made in the exercise of judgment and discretion conferred by law and not controllable by mandamus, and
therefore that the Court of Appeals rightly directed that
the petition be dismissed.
Judgment affirmed.

