U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. SANDOVAL.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY
COMPANY v. SANDOVAL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF ARIZONA.

No. 125.

Submitted December 18,1911.-Decided February 19, 19,12.

Payment by a surety company of the amount of a supersedeas bond
after affirmance of the judgment by the Supreme Court of the Territory and notice by the Governor of the State of non-payment by
the' principals and that unless the judgment were paid forthwith, or
excuse for non-payment shown, the company would forfeit its right
to transact business in the Territory, is not a voluntary payment
even if the Governor had no power to revoke the license, no ruling
to such effect having been made prior to the payment.
The fact that an appeal was subsequently taken by the judgment
debtors to this court from the judgment, and that on payment
thereof the surety company took security for repayment from the
judgment creditor in the case of reversal, does not diminish the right
of the surety company to collect from the principals the amount of
the debt and all of its expenses as agreed in the application for the
bond.
This court will take notice of its own decision in determining the
rights of surety and principal on a supersedeas bond given to secure
a judgment which was subsequently affirmed by this court.
12 Arizona, 348, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Eugene S. Ives for appellant.
Mr. Henry S. Van Dyke and Mr. Frank P. Flint, with
whom Mr. G. Bullard was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.

Action to recover the sum of $10,528.33 and-certain

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

expenses on account of a judgment recovered against
appellees and paid by appellant as surety on an appeal
bond executed at the request of appellees.
The action was brought and tried in the District Court
of Santa Cruz County, Second Judicial District of the
Territory ofArizona, and resulted in a judgment for the
sum of $14,683.25 in favor of appellant. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the Territory the judgment was reversed. Thereupon the case was brought here.
There is no dispute about the facts. One Epes Randolph recovered a judgment against the appellees for the
sum of $10,528.33, from which they appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory. They applied to appellant for a bond to be given on appeal to stay the judgment.
In the application for the bond they covenanted "to
reimburse said company [appellant] for any and all loss,
costs, charges, suits, damages, counsel fees and expenses
of whatever kind or nature, which said company shall, or
may, for any cause, at any time, sustain or incur, or be
put to for, or by reason or in consequence of said company having entered .into, or executed said bond."
The judgment against appellees was affirmed by the
Supreme Court and a judgment rendered against them,
and the Guaranty Company (appellant here) for the
amount recovered'in the lower court, with interest and
costs, on the twenty-seventh of March, 1908.
About the twenty-fourth of June, 1908, the company
received notice from the Governor of the Territory to the
effect that the judgment of the Supreme Court had not.
been paid; that more than thirty days had elapsed from
its rendition, and that unless it was paid or sufficient
excuse for its non-payment shown, the company would
forfeit its rights to transact business as a surety company
in Arizona. The company notified appellees by telegraph
of this notice, but they failed to pay the judgment oi to
perfect an appeal from it to this court, and therefore the

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. SANDOVAL.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

company (appellant) paid Randolph the amount due on.
the judgment and interest amounting to the sum of
$11,484.95. The appellant also incurred certain expenses
which, with the judgment paid, amounted in all to the
sum of $13,911.70.
With unimportant variations, the complaint alleged the
facts which were found by the court. The appellees demurred to the complaint for insufficiency and also answered, denying some of its allegations and admitting
others. They admit.ted the recovery of judgment against
them and the application for the bond, but denied that
the surety company had received notice from the Governor, as alleged, or that the company paid Randolph for
them in satisfaction of the judgment any sum of money or
that any sum was due. They alleged that after the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory
and a rehearing denied, notice of appeal to this court was
duly given and that the cause was transferred to this
court, where it was at the time of the answer; that no
execution had been issued on the judgment and that if the
company had paid the judgment it did so by reason of its
own negligence, voluntarily, and not at the request of
appellees, or by any order of the court, or in satisfaction
of the judgment.
"The testimony shows," the Supreme Court said
(p. 352), "that on March 27, 1908, the judgment of the
district court was affirmed in this' court, and that pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1592, Civil Code of
1901, judgment was also entered against the Guaranty
company as surety upon the appeal bond. Thereafter,
within the time allowed by law, a motion for a rehearing
was made, which motion was denied by this court May 19,
1908. The action having been tried before the court
without a jury, an appeal to the supreme court of the
United States from the judgment of the court was prayed,
and was allowed by one of the justices of the court on

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

June 20, 1908. In the order allowing the appeal it was
directed that the judgment be stayed upon the appellants
filing their supersedeas bond in the sum of $20,000, to be
approved by any justice of this court. This order was
filed with the clerk June 22, 1908. A bond in proper form.
was approved by one of the justices on July fourteenth,
and filed with the clerk on July 15, 1908. Citation was
issued July 18, 1908, and served on JuIy 31, 1908. It also
appears that on or about June 18th, the judgment creditor,
Randolph, demanded of the Guaranty company that it
pay thd judgment; that on June 24, 1908, the Guaranty
company paid the judgment in full, and thereafter, and
as a part of this transaction, took from Randolph a bond,
with collateral security, for the return of the amount paid
him, with interest, should the supreme court of the United
States reverse the judgment of this court."
The Supreme Court sustained the trial court in holding
the complaint sufficient and stating a cause of action, but
it decided that the court erred in giving judgment for the
amount paid by the company to Randolph, because it had
not surrendered to appellees, its principals, the security it
had taken from Randolph. The court, however, decided
(p. 359) that the company could recover from appellees
"such amounts as it reasonably expended in connection
with the adjustment of the matter, for which it holds no
security." These expenses were found to amount to the
sum of $544.50, upon which interest was adjudged at
6 per cent from August 3, 1908, to the date of the judgment. The judgment of the District Court was modified
and reduced to the amount indicated, and, as modified,
affirmed, "but without prejudice to the rights of the
Guaranty company to bring such further action as may
be necessary. to establish its rights, should a right to
reimbursement of the amount of the judgment accrue
to it."
The bond taken by appellant of Randolph, the judg-

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. SANDOVAL.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment creditor, is made the determining element by the
Supreme Court of the Territory. The bond was the outcome of certain conversations, prior to the payment of the
judgment,, between a representative of the company and
Randolph.. A disagreement arose as to the effect of the
conversations, the representative contending that Randolph agreed to refund the money if it should appear
under any proceeding which should be started that it was
not proper for the company to have paid the money.
Randolph's attorney contended that as a supersedeas
bond might have been filed at the very moment that the
money was being paid, in the event that it should transpire
that such bond was filed prior to the payment, Randolph
would return the money. In consequence of this dispute,
Randolph executed a bond to the Guaranty Company in
the sum of $20,000, which recited the proceedings in the
litigation and payment of the judgment to Randolph, and
that the appellees herein were, on the twenty-fourth of
June, 1908, proceeding to appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States, but had not, on said date, perfected
their appeal, but "have, at the date of these presents,
duly appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States
from the said judgment," it was agreed that if that court
should affirm the judgment, or if it should reverse the
j.udgment and Randolph should refund the money paid
to him by the company, then the obligation to be void,
otherwise to remain in full force and effect. Randolph
further agreed as collateral security for the bond that he
would deposit, and he did deposit, with the Guaranty
Company 25,000 shares of the capital stock of the Huntington Beach Company with the right in the company, if
Randolph should not refund the money after the reversal
of the judgment by the Supreme Court of the United
States, to sell the stock and apply the proceeds to the
payment of the amount paid by it, the company. Upon
the affirmance of the judgment or dismissal of the appeal

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
.Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

the stock was to be returned to Randolph, and Randolph
had the right to withdraw such stock and substitute other
collateral secuirity.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, as we have seen,
made this bond and security the controlling factor in its
decision. The court held that the payment of the judgment was not premature-in other words, not voluntary.
In tlhis we agree with the court. Appellant was not bound
to await the issuance of an execution. The affirmance of
the judgment fixed its liability. Babbitt v. Finn, 101 U. S.
7, 15. And in determining the character of the payment
as voluntary or negligent, as alleged by appellees in their
answer, the threat of the Governor must be given account, even if it be granted that he had no power, as held
by the Supreme Court of the Territory,-in this case, to
revoke the license of appellant to do business in the
Territory. Such ruling had not then been made, and an
attempted exercise of such power would have been injurious to appellant to yield to or resist. Appellant
certainly acted in good faith, and discharged the duty that
it was assured it had assumed under the law. However,
this may not be of consequence, and we pass to the consideration of the ground upon which the Supreme Court
of the Territory based its decision. The court held, as
we have seen, that appellant was justified in paying the
judgment, and, having paid the judgment, it was entitled
to reimbursement, but to no more, the court said, than,
reimbursement, and held that the only outlay it had incurred was for certain expenses, and limited the judgment
to their amount.
The court argued. that appellant was secured for all
else, and that therefore its payment was not "an absolute one, but one conditioned that the judgment be
affirmed by the Supreme Court, since it has taken and
holds security satisfactory to it for the return of the
money with interest, in the event the judgment is*re-

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. SANDOVAL.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

versed." And such event happening, the court concluded,
would result in the payment to appellant twice. In other
words, if the judgment should be sustained it would collect the amount of appellees; if the judgment should be
reversed it would collect the amount of Randolph. This,
the court said, would be inequitable and that therefore
appellant could not "claim reimbursement from its principals until its actual loss is ascertained, or at least that
it may not recover without surrendering the security to
its principals."
The court's conclusion, we think, is not justified. It
would indeed be inequitable to permit appellant to collect
more than once. the money paid by it, but once, at least,
it is entitled, a result which it seeks by this suit. Having
paid money for its principals it did not "speculate" out of
them by reinforcing their responsibility to it by taking
security from Randolph. It was bound by the judgment,
which it paid equally with appellees, though on account
of them. It was under an absolute duty to pay, but there
were contingencies upon which the payment would have
to be refunded by Randolph, and to secure itself it took
security from him. We repeat, it was not speculating out
of its principals, but was benefiting them. It acquired
securities to which they could be subrogated in the event
the judgment obtained by Randolph should be reversed.
This represents the parties' rights on this record. In addition, however, we may say that we know that the judgment was not reversed and that appellees' liability to Randolph has been affirmed. Sandoval v. Randolph, 222 U. S.
161.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the Supreme
Court of the State of Arizona for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.

