OCTOBER TERM, 19r1.
Syllabus.

223 U. S.

But no decree nunc pro tune was admissible. Such a
decree presupposes a decree allowed, or ordered, but not
entered, through inadvertence of the court; or a decree
in a cause which is under advisement when the death of a
party occurs. Mitchell v. Overman, 103 U. S.62. There is
no claim that a final decree in pursuance of the allegations
of the bill had ever been directed and through inadvertence of either court or counsel omitted from entry.
There was, therefore, no authority for a decree nunc pro
tune upon any known ground of equity procedure. Gray
v. No
Brignardello, 1 Wall. 627.
effort to revive the cause against the succession
of Cuebas was at any time made. The complainant stood
upon her right to a final decree nunc pro tunc. When this
was denied she still made no effort to revive the cause,
though Cuebas had been dead a long time. It was not
error in such circumstances to dismiss the bill.
Decree affirmed.

CITY OF CINCINNATI v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 385.

Submitted January 9, 1912.-Decided February 19, 1912.

After its admission into the Union, the legislative power of the State
of Ohio was not restricted in any way by the provisions of Article 2
of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, except as limited by its own
constitution, and that State has every power of eminent domain
which pertains to the other States.
Article 2 -of the Northwest Ordinance did not forbid the appropriation by eminent domain of a contract dedicating land to the common use and benefit of a town.
The act of the Ohio legislature of 1908, § 3283, and the ordinance of

CINCINNATI v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO.
223 U. S.

391

Syllabus.

the city of Cincinnati thereunder, condemning a right of way across
the public landing at Cincinnati, are not unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of the contract dedicating the landing as a common for the use and benefit of the town forever.
A dedication of land as a common for use and benefits of the town
forever as shown on a plan, and the acceptance by the town and
the sale of lots under the plan constitutes a contract the obligation
whereof is protected by the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
The right of every State to exercise the power of eminent domain as
to every description of property is an inherent power without which
it cannot perform its functions.
The power of eminent domain was not surrendered by the States to the
United States or affected by the Federal Constitution except that
it must be exercised with due process of law and on compensation
being made.
The power of eminent domain extends to tangibles and intangibles,
including choses in action, contracts and charters.
An appropriation unider eminent domain with compensation of a contract neither challenges its validity nor impairs the obligation. It is
a taking, not an impairment, of its obligation.
Every contract, whether between the State and an individual or between individuals only, is subject to the law of eminent domain, for
there enters into every engagement the unwritten condition that it
is subject to appropriation for public use.
The ordinance of the Northwest Territory ceased to be, in itself, obligatory upon the States carved from that Territory after their
admission into the Union as States, except so far as adopted by the
States themselves and made a part of the laws thereof.
On its admission, whatever the conditions may have been prior thereto,
whether from the conditions of the Northwest Ordinance or other
territorial government, a State at once becomes entitled to and
possessed of all the rights of dominion and sovereignty which belonged to the original States, and all limitations on sovereignty in
the act of admission not subsequently adopted by the State itself
are inoperative. Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559.
When the United States as an independent sovereign creates a territorial government with legislative authority, subject only to limitations of the creating act, it will be presumed to grant to the new
dependent government the vital powers incident to and necessary
to sovereignty unless it plainly appears to be withheld.
The right to appropriate property being a necessary incident to sov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

ereignty, Art. 2 of the Northwest Ordinance giving power only to
take property in a public exigency for compensation, will be broadly
construed as simply limiting the general right of eminent domain by
the requirement that compensation be made.
A public exigency exists for the common preservation when the legislature declares that for a bona fide public purpose there should be a
right of way for a common carrier across a particular piece of property, and in such a case the propriety of the appropriation cannot be
questioned by any other authority. United States v. Jones, 109
U. S. 519.
Qu&ire: Whether the only power of eminent domain to which a contract
is subordinate is the power as it existed at the time that the contract was made or at the time of appropriation.
82 Oh. St. 466, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a municipal ordinance of Cincinnati and statute under which
it was passed permitting condemnation for a right of way,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward M. Ballard and Mr. Albert Bettinger for
plaintiff in error:
The dedication of the public landing in January, 1789,
was a contract between the dedicators and the subsequently created city of Cincinnati, by which the latter
became perpetually obligated to hold the same in trust
for the public; and inasmuch as the power of eminent
domain then residing in the Northwest Territory was, by
the ordinance of 1787, limited to cases for the common
preservation, no greater power was read into the contract,
and therefore the application of § 3283a to this public
landing impairs the obligation of that contract. Fletcher
v. Peck, 6 Cr. 87, 136.
The law of eminent domain only as it existed at the
time of the dedication like all other laws then existing was
read into the contract of dedication.
Where the plenary power of eminent domain exists
at the time contracts are entered into, the subsequent

CINCINNATI v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO.
223 U. S.

393

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

exercise of the right by the sovereign does not impair their
obligations.
In the case at bar, however, when the contract dedicating the public landing was made in January, 1789, no
power of eminent domain resided in the Northwest Territory, which was not a sovereign but only a dependency of
the Confederate States. The only power of .eminent
domain then existent was that which was conferred upon
the Territory by the ordinance of 1787, and which was
limited to the taking of private property only for the
common preservation in cases of public exigencies. Von
Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535, 555; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 608, 612.
As to what laws do and do not impair the obligation of
contracts, see Smith v. Parsons, 1 Ohio, 236, 240; Goodale
v. Fennell, 27 Oh. St. 426; Sturges v. Crowningshield, 4
Wheat. 122; Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1.
It is clear that only such laws as are in force at the time
the contract is made become terms of it, and that subsequent laws do not apply to previously made contracts
if their effect would be to impair the obligation of the same.
Constitutional provisions, equally with legislative enactments, come within the inhibition against the impairment of contractual obligations; RailroadCo. v. McClure,
10 Wall. 511, 515; Shreveport v. Cole, 129 U. S.36, 42;
Gunn v. Barry, 15 Wall. 610, 623; Fisk v. Jefferson Police
Jury, 116 U. S. 131, 135; Clay County v. Society for Savings, 104 U. S.579; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331; Matheny v. Golden, 5 Oh. St. 369.
A cpntract which fixes the perpetual use to which the
land shall be put, cannot by subsequent enlargement of
the power of eminent domain be taken for a different use.
The inhibition against the impairment of contractual
obligations isfound in all the fundamental laws of the
country from the beginning, and is absolute. Toledo
Bank vi Bond, 1 Oh. St. 623, 687.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
. Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

223 U. S.

The contract in this case does not fall within the class
of contracts that are made under a government then
possessing the power of eminent domain, which is asserted
against the contract, but was made under a government,
whose power of eminent domain was limited to the "common preservation" in cases of public exigencies.
The phrase "equal footing with the original States in
all respects whatever," does not mean that each new State
had to come into the Union with its inherent power of
eminent domain unabridged and unlimited, or with its
power of eminent domain the same as the original States.
It means that with respect to the National Government
they must be on an equal footing with the original States.
The new States must have the same obligations toward
the National Government, and are entitled to the same
privileges as the original States. In all other respects
each State is supreme within her own territorial limits,
free to frame her own constitution, enact her own laws,
abridge her sovereignty, and therefore to limit her inherent right of eminent domain. Matheny v. Golden, 5
Oh. St. 369, 370; Case v. Toftus, 39 Fed. Rep. 730; State v.
Boone, 84 Oh. St. 346, 359; Spooner v. McConnell, 1 McLean, 337, 348; Land v. Manistee River Imp. Co., 123 U. S.
288, 295; Coyle v. Smith, 221 U. S. 559, 567, 579, recognize the right of a State to be supreme in its own territory after its admission into the Union.
As to the right of the State to alter or abridge the power
of eminent domain by a change in the Constitution, •see
Toledo Bank v. Bond, 1 Oh. St. 622, 688.
It cannot be said that because of the dedicators' knowledge that a new State was to be formed, the contract of
dedication was made subject to whatever power of eminent
domain the new State should by its constitution retain.
The power of eminent domain is not any greater than
the right of a State to alter or destroy her municipal
corporations, either by constitutional change or legislative

CINCINNATI v. LOUIS. & NASH.. R. R. CO.
223 U. S.

395

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

act. Each is an attribute of sovereignty, but such alteration or destruction is within the constitutional inhibition
against impairing the obligation of contracts. Graham v.
Folsom, 200 U. S. 248, 253.
Only the power of eminent domain as it existed in the
Northwest Territory, at the time of the dedication in
January, 1789, was read into the contract of dedication,
and the exercise of any different power of eminent domain
impairs the obligations of that contract, and is forbidden
by the United States Constitution.
The only power of eminent domain in the Northwest
Territory under the ordinance of 1787 was where "the
public exigencies made it necessary for the common preservation."
Where a political community is a dependency as distinguished from a sovereignty, having no inherent power
of eminent domain, it may acquire the power by delegation from the sovereignty of which it is a dependency.
Thus the power of eminent domain inheres in the
Federal Government and the States by virtue of their
sovereignty, while it does not inhere in the Territories
of the Federal Government, which, instead of possessing
sovereignty, are mere. subordinate political divisions or
dependencies of the Federal Government, and therefore
have only such power of eminent domain as is delegated
to them.
As the Northwest Territory was a .dependency of the
Confederacy, without sovereignty, it possessed no inherent power of eminent domain but only such power
as was in some way conferred upon it. Luxton v. North
River Bridge Co., 153 U. S.525; Chappel v. United States,
160 U. S.499; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151;
United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry., 160 U. S.668.
The power of eminent domain was not conferred by the
provision that no man shall be deprived of his liberty or
property, but by the judgment of his peers or the law of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

223 U. S.

the land. Den v. Hoboken Land & Imp. Co., 18 How. 272,
276.
The phrase "due process of law" has been variously
defined, but it is now well 'settled that it has reference to
ordinary judicial proceedings in court. Hagarv. Reclamation District, 111 U. ,S. 701, 708; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S.
51, 58; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 537; and see
definition given by Mr. Webster in his argument in the
Dartmouth College Case, 4 Wheat. 518, 581.
Another reason for the claim that the power of eminent
domain was limited to a taking for the common preservation is that the framers of the ordinance by express provision safeguarded the rights of the people by insuring
compensation when their property is taken for the "common preservation," while no such restriction is made with
reference to taking private property for other public uses.
The reason is clear. The United States after the adoption of the Federal Constitution had the inherent power
of eminent domain, and to guard against the arbitrary
exercise of the power, compensation was secured to the
owner, and the taking had to be "by due process of law."
The Northwest Territory, on the other hand, had no
power of eminent domain except for the "common preservation" and there was, therefore, no need for a provision for compensation except when taken for the common
preservation. See the only case on the subject, Newcomb
v. Smith, 1 Chandler (Wis.), 71.
The power of eminent domain was not conferred on the
Northwest Territory by the provision in the ordinance
that "the governor, legislative council and house of representatives shall have authority to make laws in all cases
for the good government of the district," etc.
Mr. J. B. Foraker and Mr. Ellis G. Kinkead for defendant in error:
Under the ordinance of 1787, there was conferred upon

CINCINNATI v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO.
223 U. S.

397

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the territorial legislature the power of eminent domain.
Giesy v. RailroadCo., 4 Oh. St. 308.
Whatever limitations the ordinance contaifned upon the
exercise by the territorial legislature of the power of eminent domain, they became of no effect upon the organization and admission of the State of Ohio into the Union.
-The State of Ohio has had since 1802 the full power of
eminent domain, excepting such part as is reserved to the
Federal Government; there is no land within the State of
Ohio not subject to the State's power of eminent domain.
That power is a right of sovereignty superior to any private
right of property, however or whenever acquired. Against
the sovereignty no private rights avail. Contracts are
not protected from it by the Federal Constitution or
the state constitution, for the very contract may itself
be appropriated by the State in the exercise of this power.
Art. I, § 10 of the Federal Constitution, forbidding a
State to pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts, was not to limit the exercise by the State of the
power of eminent domain. When the effect of such exercise is to appropriate a contract right for which compensation is given, the contract is not thereby impaired or
abrogated, but its validity is recognized, and all rights
thereunder merely pass by forcible purchase to the State.
Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S.685;
Offield v. Railroad Company, 203 U. S.372, 382; Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 582.
All land within Ohio has at all times since its occupation by civilized governmental authority been subject to
the right of eminent domain.
This court has repeatedly held that the ordinance of
1787 ceased to be operative in the territory of States
subsequently formed out of the Northwest Territory.
Escanaba Co: v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; Huse v. Glover,
119 U. S. 543; Sand v. Manistee River Imp. Co., 123
U. S.288, 295; Hamilton v. Vicksburg &c. R. R. Co., 119

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

U. S. 280, 284; Cardwell v. Bridge Company, 113 U. S.
205, 210, 212; Ward v. Racehorse, 163 U. S.504.
In Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559, these cases and
others to the same effect were fully reviewed and approved.
The decision in all these cases rests upon the fact that all
States admitted into the Union subsequent to the adoption
of the Federal Constitution must come in on an equal
footing with the original States in all respects.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Under an act of the legislature of the State of Ohio of
May 9, 1908 (Laws 1908, p..308), being § 3283-a, and an
ordinance of the city of Cincinnati in pursuance of that
act, the defendant railroad company instituted, in a court
of the State of Ohio, a suit to condemn a right of way for
an elevated railroad track across the public landing at
Cincinnati. Pending the condemnation proceeding the
city of Cincinnati filed a bill in one of the Common Pleas
Courts to enjoin the railroad company from constructing
its railway across said public landing in pursuance of its
agreement and contract with the city under the ordinance
mentioned, and to restrain the prosecution of its pending
petition for the condemnation of an easement of way
across the landing. The ground upon which it was sought
to stop the condemnation proceeding and prevent the
company from constructing its elevated tracks across the
public landing was that § 3283-a, Revised Statutes of Ohio,
under which alone an easement of way might be appropriated, was repugnant to Art. I, § 10 of the Constitution
of the United States, forbidding any State to pass any law
impairing the obligation of a contract, in so far as § 3283-a,
applied to the particular property across which an easement of way was sought to be .appropriated.
That section, so far as necessary to be here stated,
provides that upon compliance therewith any railroad

CINCINNATI v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO.
223 U. S.

399

Opinion of the Court.

company owning or operating a railroad wholly or partially within the State might "use and occupy for an
elevated track any portion of any public ground lying
within the limits of any municipality and dedicated to
the public for use as a public ground, common, landing or
wharf, or for any other public purpose," excepting streets,
alleys and public roads. It is provided that before instituting a proceeding for the appropriation of the needed
easement, which is to be according to a general statute
referred to, such company shall submit plans for the
structure, and come to an agreement with the city council
of the municipality concerned, as to the terms and conditions upon which the easement shall be occupied.
The proprietors of the -grant of land upon which the
city of Cincinnati was originally laid out, made a plan or
plat of the proposed town, according'to which plan a
strip of ground between Front street and the Ohio river
was set apart "as a common for the use and benefit of the
town forever." The effect of the sale of the town lots
under this plan has long since been held to constitute a
dedication of the river front strip to the public use and to
have vested in the city of Cincinnati a valid title in trust
for the public use in the same manner that streets were
held under the same plat or plan. City of Cincinnati v.
White, 6 Pet. 431.' This dedication was made in 1789,
and the property has ever since been used as a public
landing or wharf.
A demurrer to the petition was sustained by the Court
of Common Pleas, and the bill dismissed. This was affirmed upon appeal to the Circuit Court, and again affirmed
upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the State.
That the dedication in 1789, and acceptance by the
then town of Cincinnati constitutes a contract with the
dedicators obligatory upon the town and its successor,
the city of Cincinnati, may be conceded. The contention
is that the Ohio act of' May 9, 1908, now § 3283-a.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Revised Statutes of Ohio, is an impairment of the contract,
forbidden by the tenth section of the first Article of the
Constitution of the United .States. But the right of every
State to ,authorize the appropriation of every description
of property for a public use -isone of those inherent powers
which belong to state governments, without which they
could not well perform their great functions. It is a power
not surrendered to the United States and is untouched by
any of the provisions of the Federal Constitution, provided there be due process of law, that is, a law authorizing it, and provision made for compensation. This power
extends to tangibles and intangibles alike. A chose in
action, a charter, or any kind of contract, are, along with
land and movables, within the sweep of this sovereign authority.
The constitutional inhibition upon any state law impairing the obligation of contracts is not a limitation upon
the power of eminent domain. The obligation of a contract is .not impaired when it is appropriated to a public
use- and compensation made therefor. Such an exertion
of power neither challenges its validity nor impairs its
obligation. Both are recognized, for it is appropriated
as an existing enforceable contract. It is a taking, not an
impairment of 'its obligation. If compensation be made,
no constitutional right is violated. All of this has been so
long settled as to need only the citation of some of the
many cases. Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11
Pet. 420; The West River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507;
N. 0. Gas Co. v. La. Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; Long Island
Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685; Offield v.
Railroad Co., 203 U. S. 372.
Every contract, whether between the State and an individual or between individuals only, is subject to this
general law. There enters into every engagement the
unwritten condition that it is subordinate to the right of
appropriation to a public use. The'West River Bridge Co.

CINCINNATI v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO.
223 U. S.

401

Opinion of the Court.

v. Dix, 6 How. 507; Long Island Water Supply Co. V.
Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 691-2.
These general propositions are not challenged.
But it is said, that the right of appropriating private
property to a public use possessed by the State of Ohio is
only that which is defined and limited by the second article
of the ordinance of 1787 (July 13, 1787, 1 Stat. 52), creating a government for the Northwest Territory, which embraced the territory which later became the State of Ohio.
That ordinance, after providing for a territorial government, declares certain political principles to be fundamental and that they should constitute the "basis of all
laws, constitutions and governments," thereafter organized out of that territory and should be regarded as
"articles of compact between the original States and the
people and States in the said territory, and be unalterable
unless by common consent." The article referred to and
claimed now to be still obligatory, is in these words:
"No man shall be deprived of his liberty or property,
but by the judgment of his peers, or the law of the land,
and should the public exigencies make it necessary, for
the common preservation, tq take any person's property,
or to demand his particular services, full compensation
shall be made for the same."
But the ordinance of 1787 as an instrument limiting the
powers of government of the Northwest Territory, and
declaratory of certain fundamental principles which must
find place in the organic law of States to be carved out of
that Territory, ceased to be, in itself, obligatory upon such
States from and after their admission into the Union as
States, except in so far as adopted by such States and made
a part of the law thereof. This has been the view of this
court so often announced as to need no further argument:
Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Permoli v. First
Municipality, 3 How. 589; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107
U. S. 678, 688.
VOL. ccxxIi-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

In Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, supra, it was said:
"Whatever the limitation upon her powers as a government whilst in a territorial condition, whether from the
ordinance of 1787 or the legislation of Congress, it ceased
to have any operative force, except as voluntarily adopted
by her, after she became a State of the Union. On her
admission she at once became entitled to and possessed of
all the rights of dominion and sovereignty which belonged
to the original States. She was admitted, and could be
admitted, only on the same footing with them. The
language of the resolution admitting her is 'on an equal
footing with the original States in all respects whatever.'
3 Stat. 536. Equality of constitutional right and power is
the condition of all the States of the Union, old and new.
Illinois, therefore, as was well observed by counsel, could
afterwards exercise the same power over rivers within her
limits that Delaware exercised over Black Bird Creek, and
Pennsylvania over the Schuylkill River."
In Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559, the case of Escanaba
Co. v. Chicago, and the cases cited therein, were fully
reviewed and held applicable to conditions imposed by
Congress in the enabling act under which Oklahoma was
admitted, and all limitations in that act were held inoperative after admission, in so far as they had not been subsequently adopted by the State and were in derogation of
the equality in power of that State with the other States
of the Union.
It is next contended that whether the provisions of
Art. 2 now constitute the irrevocable fundamental law of
Ohio or not, that that provision was the only law of
eminent domain existing in 1789, and as such is to be regarded as read into the contract of dedication, and, therefore, is the only power of eminent domain to which that
contract was subordinate. Upon this hypothesis is based
the contention that any subsequent law of Ohio authorizing a taking of this property for a purpose or use not within

CINCINNATI v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO.
223 U. S.

403

Opinion of the Court.

the terms of the ordinance of 1787 is a law impairing the
obligation of a contract.
But the assumption that the power of eminent domain
possessed by the Northwest Territory in 1787 was limited
as claimed is untenable. The clause referred to assumes
the existence of a general power of eminent domain in the
Government, and provides that when exerted there must
be full compensation for the property taken or the services
required. That this is so is apparent not only from the
language of the clause, but from a general consideration of
the purpose and object of the Congressional act in which
the article appears. The ordinance of 1787 was a law providing for the government of the territory of the United
States northwest of the River Ohio. It provided for the
appointment of a governor and secretary and for the appointment of judges and the organizatibn of courts with
common-law jurisdiction. To the governor and judges
was granted legislative power to adopt and publish such
laws of the original States as should seem to be adapted to
the conditions, which were to be and remain in force unless disapproved by Congress. Authority to elect a legislature was conferred when there should be five thousand
inhabitants.
Upon this Article 2, heretofore set out, is claimed to be
a contractual limitation, based upon the contract of dedication, by which this particular strip of river front is forever protected against an exercise of the power of eminent
domain by the State of Ohio, except where "the public
exigency makes it necessary for the common preservation."
If we assume, for argument, that an affirmative limitation
upon the right of appropriating property to any public
purpose would so enter into any contract as to forever
afterwards bind the hands of the State, no such situation
is here presented. Article 2 is not a grant of pov.-er, but
a limitation upon the power of eminent domain assumed
to exist. It was conferred upon the governor and judges

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion-bf the Court.

223 U. S.

by the power to adopt and publish the laws of any original
State deemed appropriate, and by the second section there
was conferred upon the governor and legislature, when
organized, "authority to make laws in ali cases
not repugnant to the principles and articles in this ordinance established and declared." This legislative power,
temporarily in the governor and a majority of the judges,
and then in the governor and the legislature, when organized, included, by necessary implication, the general power
to provide for the appropriation of private property for
public purposes. If this is not the case, then the ordinance
granted ho power of that kind whatever, for the clause
above cited is obviously a mere restriction by which compensation is required.
This right of appropriating private property to a public use is one of the powers vital to the public welfare of
every self-governing community. It is a power which this
court has described as an "incident to sovereignty," a
power which "belongs to every independent government."
In United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 518, it was said:
"The provision found in the Fifth Amendment to the
federal Constitution, and in the Constitutions of the
several States, for just compensation for the property
taken, is merely a limitation upon the use of the power.
It is no part of the power itself, but a condition upon which
the power may be exercised. It is undoubtedly true that
the power of appropriating private property to public
uses vested in the general government-its right of eminent domain, which Vattel defines to be the right of disposing, in case of necessity and for the public safety, of
all the wealth of the country-cannot be transferred to a
State any more than its other sovereign attributes; and
that, when the use to which the property taken is applied
is public, the propriety or expediency of the appropriation
cannot be called in question by any other authority."
That the Northwest Territory was not a State, but a

CINCINNATI v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO.
223 U. S.

405

Opinion of the Court.

mere territorial dependency is of no consequence. The
United States was an independent sovereign, and when it
created a territorial government with legislative authority
subject only to the limitations of the creating act, it
granted to this new dependent government this vital
power unless it plainly appears that it was withheld.
The denial of such a power to this new government intended as the forerunner of a group of States west of the
Ohio, or its restriction to purposes of necessary defense
only, as appellant would construe the language of the
article above set out, is not to be easily or lightly presumed. The power was one necessary to the work which
this pioneer community was set on doing. It was a
power well nigh as essential to the existence of the government as the taxing power. The language of Chief Justice Taney in the Charles River Bridge Case, 11 Pet. 420,
547, when speaking of a contention that the State of
Massachusetts had surrendered the power, by granting a
charter for the construction of a particular bridge, to appropriate that bridge so authorized, is apt and appropriate,
when we are asked to construe the ordinance of 1787 as
denying to the government of the Northwest Territory a
power so important to the welfare of its people. Upon
this he said:
"But the object and end of all government is to promote
the happiness and prosperity of the community by which
it is established; and it can never be assumed, that the
government intended to diminish its power of accomplishing the end for which it was created. And in a country
like ours, free, active, and enterprising, continually advancing in numbers and wealth, new channels of communication are daily found necessary, both for travel and
trade, and are essential to the comfort, convenience, and
prosperity of the people. A State ought never to be presumed to surrender this power, because, like the taxing
power, the whole community have an interest in preserv-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

ing it undiminished. And when a corporation alleges,
that a State has surrendered for seventy years, its power
of improvement and public accommodation, in a great
and important line of travel, along which a vast number of
its citizens must daily pass; the community have a right
to insist, in the language of this court above quoted, 'that
its abandonment ought not to be presumed, in a case, in
which the deliberate purpose of the State to abandon it
does not appear.' The continued existence of a government would be of no great value, if by implications and
presumptions, it was disarmed of the powers necessary to
accomplish the ends of its creation; and the functions it
was designed to perform, transferred to the hands of
privileged corporations. The rule of construction announced by the court, was not confined to the taxing
power; nor is it so limited in the opinion delivered. On
the contrary, it was distinctly placed on the ground that
the interests of the community were concerned in preserving,, undiminished, the power then in question; and
whenever any power of the State is said to be surrendered
or diminished, whether it be the taxing power or any other
affecting the public interest, the same principle applies,
and the rule of construction must be the same."
Nor should the particular language of the article above
set out be given a narrow or hypercritical meaning. The
plain purpose was but to limit the general right of eminent
domain by the requirement that compensation should be
made. A public "exigency" exists, for the "common
preservation," when the legislature declares that for a
bona fide public purpose there should be a right of way
for a common carrier across a particular piece of property.
The uses to which § 3283-a authorizes a condemnation of
a right of way are undeniably public and not private uses.
When that is the case, "the propriety or expediency of the
appropriation cannot be called in question by any other
authority." United States v. Jones,, 109 U. S. 519.

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
223 U. S.

Syllabus.

It follows then, first, that the legislative power of the
State of Ohio was not restricted in any way by the provi-

sions of the second article of the ordinance of 1787 after
its admission to the Union, and it has every power of eminent domain which pertains to other States, unless limited

by its own constitution; and, second, that if the law of
eminent domain as it existed at the time of the dedication
is to be read into the contract, that that law, properly interpreted, was not such as to forbid an appropriation such

as is here involved.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio must,

therefore, be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CITROEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 30.

Argued November 1, 1911.-Decided February 19, 1912.

In order to produce uniformity in the imposition of duties, the dutiable
classification of articles imported must be ascertained by an examinatiQn of the imported article itself in the condition in which it is
imported.
A prescribed rate of duty cannot be escaped by disguise or artifice; but
if the article imported is not the article described as dutiable at a
specified rate, it does not become dutiable under the description be.
cause it has been manufactured for the purpose of being imported at
a lower rate.
The court is not concerned with reasons for a distinction in the tariff
act,-it is enough that Congress made it.
Pearls, unset and unstrung, are dutiable under par. 436 of the tariff
act of 1897 at ten per centum and not under par. 434 at sixty per
centum, because capable of, or intended for, being strung as a necklace.

