LOWE v. FISHER.
•223 U. S.

Syllabus.

fined to the exaction of that penalty, Prosserv. Finn,8upra,
or that acts done in violation of it are to be valid against
all but the Government. Nor is there anything in its
subject-matter or in the mischief sought to be prevented
which militates against the application of the general rule.
On the contrary, it is reasonably inferable, from the language of the section and the situation with which it deals,
that it is intended that violations of it shall be attended
by the ordinary consequences of unlawful acts. We therefore are of opinion that the readjusted location was void.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. LOWE v. FISHER, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OFCOLUMBIA.

No. 445.

Argued November 14, 1911.-Decided January 29, 1912.

Wher the Court of Claims has kept control of a c-Se referred to it by
act of Congress giving it jurisdiction as to all questions, its reply
made to the request of the officer of the Government charged with
execution of its judgment for further opinion is to beregarded as
part of the decision.
The limitations on the right to return to the tribe in Art. IX of the
Cherokee Treaty of August 11, 1866, refer to both freedmen and
free colored persons; and freedmen and descendants of freedmen
who did not return within six months are excluded from the benefit
of the treaty.
Notwithstanding a decree of the Court- of Claims determining the
rights of Indians in a case over which Congress gave the court
is competent for Congress to deal further with the
jurisdiction, it.
subject. Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Wallace v.
415.
Adams, 204 U. S._
Quwre: Whether a roll of citizenship of an Indian tribe, made under

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

direction of the Court of Claims, has the conclusive effect of a judicial decree.
Under the acts of Congress of 1902 and 1906 in regard' thereto, the
enrollment of freedmen of the Cherokee tribe was to be made in
strict conformity with the decree of the Court of Claims, and should
include only such persons of African descent, either free colored or
the slaves of Cherokee citizens and their descendants, who were
actual personal bona fide residents of the Cherokee Nation August 11,
1866, or who actually returned and established such residence
within six months thereafter.
While the Secretary of the Interior did not have power to strike names
* from the roll of Cherokee citizens without notice and opportunity
to be heard, he did have power, after such notice and opportunity
had been given, to-strike from the roll names which had been placed
thereon through fraud or mistake. Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S.
249.
35 App. D. C. 524, affirmed.
THE facts, which'involve the construction of the various
treaties, acts of Congress and decisions of the Court of
Claims in regard to the rights of Cherokee freedmen and
their descendants to share in the distribution of tribal
property, are stated in this opinion.

Mr. Charles H. Merillat, with whom Mr. Charles J.
Kappler, Mr. J. K. Jones and Mr. Frank E. Duncan were
on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for defendant in
error.
MR.. JUSTICE

MCKENNA delivered the opinion of. the

court.
The case involves the question whether the Secretary
of the Interior, after due hearing and after having made
up a' roll of citizens of the Five Civilized Tribes of Indians
and after having issued certificates of allotment to the
enrolled Indians, may strike their names from the roll after

-LOWE v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

giving due notice of his intended action and an opportunity to be heard.
The case arose upon the exercise of such power by the
Secretary and an action of 'mandamus to require him to
cancel his action. To the answer of the Secretary, the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia sustained a demurrer and entered a judgment in accordance with the
prayer of the petition. 'The Court of Appeals reversed
the judgment. On return of the case to the Supreme Court
the relators elected to stand on their demurrer and the
court dismissed their petition. This action was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals and the case was then brought
here.
It was decided in Garjteld v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249, that
the Secretary had no such power without notice to the
parties concerned and an opportunity to be heard. These
conditions were performed in the present case, and, so far,
the case is distinguished from the Goldsby, Case. The
power of the Secretary upon the rehearing under the applicable statutes is now to be Considered.
The relators base their right of enrollment on Article IX
of the Cherokee treaty of August 11, 1866 (14 Stat. 799),
the material part of which is asfollows: "They [Cherokee
Nation] further agree that all freedmen who have been
liberated by voluntary act of their former owners or by
law, as well as all free colored persons who were in the
country at the commencement of the rebellion, and are
now resident therein, or who may return within six months,
and their descendants, shall have all the rights of native
Cherokees." It was found by the Secretary of the: Interior that relators were descendants of liberated slaves,
but he also found that their ancestors had not returned to
the Cherokee Nation within six months of the date of the
treaty, August 11; 1866. This must be assumed to be the
fact, for it is alleged in the answer and admitted by the
demurrer. Two propositions of law are, however, urged
VOL. ccxxiii-7

OCTOBER TERM,' 1911.
Opinion- of the Court.

223 U. S.

by relators: (1) that the requirement of a return within
the time designated applies only to free colored persons;
and (2) that the Secretary having, on November 16, 1904,
approved a list of, Cherokee freedmen, containing the
names of relators, on the ground that their ancestors had
complied with the provision for return to the Nation, had
no power to cancel their names.
(1) Article IX of the treaty is dndoubtedly ambiguous,
and to support their construction of it relators trace its
genesis to the compulsion exercised on the Cherokee Nation by the United States for its espousal of the cause
of the Confederacy during the Civil War. The Indians,
it is said, were regarded as having forfeited their treaty
rights, but the United States were willing to renew relations with them, stipulating, among other things, that"the institution of slavary, which has existed among several of the tribes, must be forthwith abolished, and measures taken for the unconditional emancipation of all persons held in bondage, and for their incorporation into the.
tribes on an equal footing with the original members, or
-suitably provided for,"
The Indians resisted the conditions, and replied that
it would not be for the benefit of the emancipated negro,
nor for the Indians, to incorporate the former into the
several tribes on an equal footing with the original members. They conceded, however, that the emancipated
negro must be suitably provided for, and subsequently
the Choctaws suggested that white person should be excluded from their Territory, and that "no person of
African descent, except our former slaves, or free persons
of color who are now, or-have been, residents of the Territory, will be permitted to -reside in the Territory, unless
formerly incorporated with some tribe, according to. the
usage of the band."
The Seminoles answered to the same effect, and asked
that Article III be changed to admit only colored persons

LOWE v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Opiiiion of the Cburt.

lately held in bondage by them and f ree persons of color
residing in the Nation previous to the rebellion, to a
residence among them, and adoption in the Seminole tribe
upon some plan to be agreed upon by them and approved
by the Government. "We are willing," they said, "to
provide for the colored people of our. own Nation, but do
not desire -our lands to become colonization grounds for
the negroes of other States and Territories." The-Creeks
expressed this in the same way, and the relators further
adduce, as supporting their construction of Article IX, that
the commission which negotiated the treaty, reporting' on
it officially, said: "Slavery is abolished and the full rights
of the freedmen are acknowledged."
The history of Article IX, therefore, it is insisted, shows
that the article consummated the purpose. , In other words,
when the Indians realized that they must provide for
negroes, they limited their .concesgion "to former slaves
and then to any other negroes who had been in the Indian
country at the outbreak of the war and might return
within a short time after peace to make their home in
the Indian Territory, thereby preventing a general influx
of negroes who might seek free land." And the right
to land, it is pointed out, was the consequence to be apprehended, as "lawful residence in the Indian Territory
meant the right to occupy land."
It is further contended that the Cherokees acted upon
the treaty practically in accordance with this construction of it, and that it was not until many years after that
they "sought to refine it away and abrogate it in effect."
They accepted it reluctantly, it is said, and subsequently
contended that it conferred civil, not property, rights
.and passed what was known as the "Blood Bill," by which
they sought to exclude all but native Cherokees by blood
from participation in a large payment of funds which was
about to be made. This gave rise to controversy, and
Congress passed an act conferring jurisdiction on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

Court of Claims to settle the matter. The act is entitled
"An act to refer to the Court of Claims certain claims of
.the Shawnee and Delaware Indians and the freedmen of
the Cherokee Nation, and for other purposes." It was
approved October 1, 1890 (26 Stat., 636, c. 1249). The
Cherokee freedmen whose rights were to be determined
under the act were those who "settled and located in the
Cherokee Nation under the provisions and stipulations
of article nine" of the treaty.
The court decided that under the Cherokee constitution.of 1866 the freedmen became citizens equally with the
Cherokees and equally interested in the common property and equally entitled to share in its proceeds per capita.
But the court did not attempt an analysis of § 5 of the
constitution nor of Article IX of the treaty (they are alike)
but defined the rights of the freedmen and the free negroes in the language of the constitution and -the article.
31 Court of Claims, 140. The opinion in the case; therefore, as delivered, had the same ambiguity as the constitution and treaty and was not understood by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, who was charged by the Secretary
of the Interior with the duty of determining who were
the resident freedmen entitled to share in the disposition
of the fund as decreed and who desired the further opinion
of the court. In reply, the court said (31 Ct. Cl. 148):
"The court is of the opinion that the clauses in that article in these words, 'And are now residents therein,or who may
return within six months, and their descendants,' were intended, for the protection of the Cherokee Nation, as a limitation upon the number of persons who might avail themselves of the provisions of the treaty; and consequently
that they refer to both -the freedmen and the free colored
persons previously named in the article. That is to sayj
freedmen and the descendants of freedmen who did not
return within six months are excluded from the benefits of
the treaty and of the decree."

LOWE v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Subsequently the court was called upon to add to its
opinion, which it did, as follows: "The court is of the
opinion that the Act 2d March, 1895 (28 Stat. L., p. 910,
§11), prescribes the manner in which payments per capita
shall be made and that the matter of payment is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior. The court, after further consideration, adheres to
the opinion communicated to the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs February 18, 1896.
"The within motion for instructions is overruled."
31 Court of Claims, 140, 148.

The relators contend that the reply of the court to the
Commissioner was not part of its decision. This, however,
is a mistake. The court had kept control of the case, and
at the time of its reply to the Commissioner the case was
pending upon certain motions made by the parties. And,

as we have seen, the court had been given special jurisdiction of the question and all others which were involved
in the controversy. But it is contended that the only issue
submitted to the court was whether "the Cherokee freedmen, as a class, were entitled to share in the- proceeds of
the Cherokee outlet or strip lands west of the 90th meridian." It is, hence, further contended that the jurisdictional act did not extend to the determination of what

particular persons composed such class or who were freedmen, and that, therefore,' "the point now involved has

not had judicial determination."
The object of the contention, no doubt, is to clear

the way for the ultimate contention upon which their
case must rest, the want of power of the Secretary of the
Interior over rolls which he had once approved and after
having issued certificates of allotment to the enrolled
Indians. In other words, relators would push aside the
adjudication of their disqualification to be enrolled, they
not having returned to-the Cherokee Nation within the
time designated- by the treaty. They, however, mAke

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

an alternative contention and urge that they were adjudged to be within the provisions of the treaty by their
enrollment upon the Kern-Clifton roll, which they insist
was adjudged to be legal evidence of the rights 'of the
freedmen; in other words, that the enrollment identified
the individual freedmen who were' entitled to participate
in the tribal property.
It is admitted in the answer that relators are on the
Kern-Clifton roll, and it does not seem to be contested
that the roll was made under instructions from the Court
of Claims. A plausible argument, therefore, is presented
that it partakes of the conclusive effect to be attributed to
a judicial decree. And it is further urged by relators that
the Kern-Clifton roll was confirmed by the act of June 10,
1896 (29 Stat. 321, 329, c. 398), which declared "that the
rolls of citizenship of the several tribes as now existing are
hereby confirmed."
What effect we should have to give to the decree, assuming it to go as far as contended, we are not called upon
to say. It Was certainly competent for Congress further
to deal with the subject. Stephens v. Cherokee Nation,
174 U. S. 445; Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S. 415.
We pass, therefore, to a consideration of the act of
June 10, 1896, upon which relators rely. It was one of a
number of acts which exhibit a connected scheme for the
enrollment of the members of the Five Civilized Tribes
and the division of their tribal property; although their
provisions are somewhat varying. '
By the act of March 3, 1893 (§ 16, 27 Stat. 645), the
Dawes Commission was created, with powers to negotiate
with the tribes. In 1896, by the act of June 10th of that
year (29 Stat. 321, c.' 398), the Commission was directed
to make up a roll of the citizens of the ttibes,- which included the Cherokees, who should apply within three
months from the passage of the act, and to decide all such
applications within ninety days after the same should be

LOWE v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made. Due force and effect was directed to be given to
tribal rolls, usages, customs and laws, if not inconsistent
with Federal laws. The act contained the provision which
we have already quoted, that is, "that the rolls of citizenm hereby conship of the several tribes as now existing are
firmed." There were powers of review given to those
aggrieved by the decision either of the Commission or the
tribal authorities. The relators; however, say that "the
Dawes Commission, as is matter of official history, did
not adopt the tribal rolls as confirmed, but proceeded to
try the rights of persons to be on the tribal rolls, and the
controversy which ensued continued, and the rolls were
not closed until March 4, 1907, Congress refusing to heed
administrative appeals for more time."
But before that final date arrived Congress passed several acts, the provisions of which are relied on by relators
as establishing their right. The acts would seem to demonstrate the contrary, and that the conditions which arose
demanded changes in legislation. It is true that it is
provided that the rolls of the tribes which were directed
to be made, when approved by the Secretary of the Interior, should be final and should constitute the several.
tribes which they represented; and it is therefore contended that those provisions became legislative confirmations which the Secretary ,was without power to disregard,
and that every partial list forwarded to him which he approved he could not afterwards change, whatever the proof
of mistake, imposition or fraud. A few citations will
prove the unsou:.dness of the contention.
The act of June 10, 1896, supra, which is so much relied
on, was largely superseded by § 21 of the act of June 28,
1898, commonly known as the Curtis-Act. 30 Sfat. 495,
502, c. 517. The section gave the Commission the power to
investigate the right of persons whose' names were on the'
rolls and to "omit all such as may have been placed there
by fraud or without authority of law,. enrolling only such

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.

as may have lawful right thereto," etc. And it was provided
that the Commission "shall make a roll of Cherokee freedmen in strict compliance with the decree of the Court of
Claims rendered. the third day of February, eighteen hundred and ninety-six." It was further provided that the
Commission should "take the roll of Cherokee citizens
of eighteen hundred and eighty (not including freedmen)
as the only roll intended to be confirmed by this and pre...
ceding acts of Congress .
It is manifest from this act that the contention of relators that the tribal rolls were to be treated or accepted
as absolutely confirmed is unsound. One roll only was
confirmed. The other rolls were to be corrected, not confirmed; and a roll of the Cherokee freedmen Was to be
made in conformity with the decree of the Court of
Claims-a roll not confirmed, but to be made, so as to
exclude the relators because they were excluded by the
decree; that is, because they were not residents of the'
Cherokee Nation at the time of the promulgation of the
treaty.
It does not appear that relators were on any roll prior
to the passage of the act of June 10, 1896, upon which
they so much rely, and therefore within its confirmatoryprovision, giving it all the force contended for. They
were on the Kern-Clifton roll, it is said, but when that
roll was made does not appear. The allegation of the
petition is that prior to November 16, 1904, the Secretary of the Interior affirmed a decision by the Commissioner of the Five Civilized Tribes-which held that relators
were entitled to enrollment as citizens, and that prior,
to that date they Were regularly ordered.to be placed upon
the final roll of freedmen citizens, and that such roll was
duly and regularly approved by the Secretary of the Interior on the sixteenth of November, 1906.
But the act of July 1, 1902 (32 Stat. 716, 720, § 27), emphasizted the requirement that the enrollment of freedmen

LOWE v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

must be made in strict conformity with the decree of the
Court of Claims. Congress was even more particular in
the act of April 26, 1906 (34 Stat. 137). Section 3 of the
act explicitly provided that "The roll of Cherokee freedmen shall include only such persons of African descent,
either free colored or the slaves of Cherokee citizens and
their descendants, who were actual personal bona fide residents of the Cherokee Nation August eleventh, eighteen
hundred and sixty-six, or who actually returned and established such residence in the Cherokee Nation on or
before February eleventh, eighteen hundred and sixtyseven."
Relators nevertheless insist that notwithstanding they
were not entitled to be placed upon the rolls, yet, having
been placed there, they cannot be taken off by the Secretary of the Interior; citing in support of the contention
certain provisions of the acts of Congress and the congressional policy expressed in them. The policy of the Government, it is said, was to expedite enrollment, with the view
to the distribution of the tribal property and the preparation of the Indian Territory for statehood. To these
ends the acts of May 31, 1900, 31 Stat. 221, c. 598, and
March 3, 1901 (31 Stat. 1073, c. 832), endeavored to speed
enrollment matters by directing the Secretary of the Interior to fix a time for closing the rolls, after which no
name should be added thereto. Then came the act of
July 1, 1902 (32 Stat. 716, c. 1375), which, it is insisted;
practically repealed prior acts so far as they concerned
enrollments. , Such prior acts, it is said, "made approval
of enrollments depend upon the completion of the rolls of
an entire tribe, and the Secretary's approval under it
would await the finishing of enrollments of an entire tribe."
And until such time "there would be no allotment to any
tribal member." The Secretary's control, hence, continued "until the last," and the congressional policy was
likewise postponed. But, it is argued, contrasting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

223 U. S.,

new measures with the old, under the act of 1902 "enrollment and allotment went hand in hand." This contention is rested on §29 of the act, which directs lists to
be prepared of those found by the Commission to be entitled to enrollment; and, it is provided, that "the lists
thus prepared, when approved by the Secretary of the
Interior, shall constitute a part and parcel of the final roll
of citizens of the Cherokee tribe, upon which allotment of
land and distribution of their property shall be made;"
and, further, that "when there shall have been submitted
-to and approved by the Secretary of the Interior lists erabracing the names of all those lawfully entitled to enrollment, the roll shall be deemed complete."
A roll made complete, it is argued, by legislation excludes the idea of correction by an executive officer; and,
besides, it is urged that the certificates of allotment carry
with them the sanction of .the law's declaration that they
shall be "conclusive evidenc&' of the rights of the allottee.
Physical possession of the lands described in them, is to
be given, it is pointed out, and, describing the conditions
which were created and Which would be disturbed by an
exercise of power to recall them, it is said that "from the
date of selection of their allotments under the law, allottees
did lease their allotments for grazing, oil and gas, mineral,
and other purposes." And, further, that "allottees also,
from the same date, created town sites where practicable,
and sold town lots, with their title resting in their allotment selections or certificates," and that such transactions
have been declared valid by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, citing McWilliams Investment Co. v. Livingston, 98
Pac. Rep..914; Godfrey v. Iowa L. & T. Co., 95 Pac. Rep.
792.
We recognize the strength of the considerations urged,
but it certainly did not militate against the congressional
policy of the allotment of lands to retain in the Secretary
of the Interior the power of revision and correction until

LOWE v. FISHER.
223 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the final moment when jurisdiction was expressly taken
from him, as provided in § 2 of the act of April 26, 1906
(34 Stat. 137, c. 1876), that is, the fourth day of March,
1907. That Congress could give such power to the Secretary of the Interior is settled. Stephens v. Cherokee
Nation and Wallace v. Adams, supra' In all the legislation providing for the making of the rolls care is observed
to prevent or correct mistakes and to defeat attempts at
fraud. We have seen what power the Dawes Commission
was given to investigate the rights of persons whose names
were on the rolls, and, as to freedmen, strict compliance
with the decree of the Court of Claims was enjoined.
By the act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1048, 1060, c. 1479,
the Work of completing the unfinished business of the Com-,
mission was devolved upon the Secretary of the Interior
and all of the powers theretofore granted- to the Commission were conferred upon the Secretary. It was subsequent to this act that action was taken as to relators
and' their names stricken from the rolls. This revisory
and corrective power of the Secretary over the allotment
of land is similar to that exercised by the Land Department respecting the 'entries upon public lands, which this
court has stated to be correct and annul entries of land
which were made upon false testimony, and Without authority of law. Corneliusv. Kessel, 128 U. S.456, 461; Hawley
v. Diller, 178 U. S.476, 490.
Judgment affirmed.

