BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
Statement of the Case.
ET AL. V. NEW YORK
STATE LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.

BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.

NO. 55.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW
YORK.*

Argued December 16, 17, 1946.-Decided April 7,1947.
Where the National Labor Relations Board had asserted general
jurisdiction over unions of foremen employed by industries subject
to the National Labor Relations Act but had refused to certify
such unions as collective bargaining representatives on the ground
that to do so at the time would obstruct rather than further effectuation of the purposes of the Act, certification of such unions by
the New York State Labor Relations Board under a State Act
similar to the National Act held invalid as in conflict with the
National Labor Relations Act and the Commerce Clause of the
Federal Constitution. Pp. 771-777.
295 N. Y. 601,607, 64 N. E. 2d 350, 352, reversed.

No. 55. A New York state court issued an order to
enforce a subpoena duces tecum issued by the New York
State Labor Relations Board in a proceeding for the certification as a collective bargaining representative under
the New York State Labor Relations Act of a union of
foremen of an employer whose business was predominantly interstate. 9 C. C. H. Labor Cases (1945) M62,
611. The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of
New York affirmed. 269 App. Div. 805, 56 N. Y. S. 2d
195. The New York Court of Appeals affirmed. 295
N.Y. 601,664, 64N. E. 2d 350, 65N. E. 2d54. On appeal
to this Court, reversed,p. 777.
No. 76. A New York state court dismissed a suit by
an employer whose business was predominantly interstate
for a declaratory judgment decreeing that the New York
*Together with No. 76, Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp. v. Kelley
et al., appeal from the Supreme Court of New York for Chautauqua
County.

•768

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

State Labor Relations Board was without jurisdiction to
determine representation of its foremen and enjoining the
Board from ordering the employer to bargain collectively
with their union. 184 Misc. 47, 49 N. Y. S. 2d 762. The
Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of New York
affirmed. 269 App. Div. 805, 56 N. Y. S. 2d 196. The
Court of Appeals of New York affirmed. 295 N. Y. 607,
64 N. E. 2d 352. On appeal to this Court, reversed and
remanded, p. 777.
Bruce Bromley argued the cause for appellants in No.
55. With him on the brief were Daniel J. Kenefick, John
H. Morse and Lyman M. Bass.
John G. Buchanan argued the cause for appellant in
No. 76. With him on the brief were William J. Kyle, Jr.,
Stanley A. McCakey, Jr. and John G. Buchanan,Jr.
William E. Grady, Jr. argued the cause for appellees.
With him on the brief was Philip Feldblum.
By special leave of Court, Robert L. Stern argued the
cause for the United States, as amicus curiae, urging reversal. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, GerhardP. Van Arkel, Morris P. Glushien and Mozart G. Ratner.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These appeals challenge the validity of the Labor Relations Act of the State of New York as applied to appellants to permit unionization of their foremen. Conflict
is asserted between it and the National Labor Relations
Act and hence with the Commerce Clause of the Constitution.
After enactment by Congress of the National Labor
Relations Act, July 5, 1935, 49 Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C. § 151,
et 8eq., New York adopted a State Labor Relations Act

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

769

Opinion of the Court.

following the federal pattern. Laws of New York, 1937,
Chap. 443, 30 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of New
York, §§ 700-716. In the administrative boards they
create, the procedures they establish, the unfair labor practices prohibited, the two statutes may be taken for present
purposes to be the same. But in provision for determination of units of representation for bargaining purposes, the
two Acts are not identical. Their differences may be made
plain by setting forth § 9 (b) of the Federal Act, with that
part which isomitted from the State Act in brackets and
additions made 1'-' the State Act as amended, Laws of
New York, 1942, Chap. 518, in italics:
"The Board shall decide in each case whether, in
order to insure to employees the full benefit of their
right to self-organization [and] to collective bargaining, and otherwise to effectuate the policies of this
Act, the unit appropriate for the purposes of collective bargaining shall be the employer unit, multiple
employer unit, craft unit, plant unit, or [subdivision
thereof] any other unit; provided, however, that in
any case where the majority of employees of a particular craft shall so decide the board shall designate
such craft as a unit appropriate for the purpose of
collective bargaining."
The procedures prescribed for the two boards for investigation; certification, and hearing.on representation units
and for their election are substantially the same except
that the State law adds the following limitation not found
in the Federal Act: ". . . provided, however, that the
board shall not have authority to investigate any question
or controversy between individuals or groups within the
same labor organization or between labor organizations
affiliated with the same parent labor organization." Laws
of New York, 1937, Chap. 443, as amended, Laws 1942,
Chap. 518, 30 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of New
York, § 705.3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

The two boards have at times pursued inconsistent
policies in applying their respective Acts to petitions of
foremen as a. class to organize bargaining units thereunder. The State Board has in these cases recognized
that right; the National Board for a time recognized it.
Union Collieries Coal Co., 41 N. L. R. B. 961; Godchaux
Sugars,Inc., 44 N. L. R. B. 874. Later, there was a period
when, for policy reasons but without renouncing jurisdiction, it refused to approve foremen organization units.
Maryland Drydock Co., 49 N. L. R. B. 733; Boeing Aircraft Co., 51 N. L. R. B. 671; General Motors Corp., 51
N. L. R. B. 457. Now, again, it supports their right to
unionize. Packard Motor Car Co., 61 N. L. R. B. 4, 64
N. L. R. B. 1212; L. A. Young Spring & Wire Corp., 65
N. L. R. B. 298. The foremen of these appellants, at
a time when their desire to organize was frustrated by the
policy of the National Board, filed applications with the
State Board. It entertained their petitions and its policy
permitted them as a class to become a bargaining unit.
Both employers, by different methods adequate under
State law to raise the question, challenged the constitutionality of the State Act as so applied to them. Their
contentions ultimately were considered and rejected by
the New York Court of Appeals and its decisions sustaining state power over the matter were brought here by
appeals.
Both of these labor controversies arose in manufacturing plants located in New York where the companies employ large staffs of foremen to supervise a much larger
force of labor. But both concerns have such a relation
to interstate commerce that, for the reasons stated in
National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel
Corp., 301 U. S. 1, federal power reaches their labor relations. On this basis the National Board has exercised
power to certify bargaining agents for units of employees

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of the Court.

other than foremen of both companies. Matter of Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation,Case No. III-R-411,
N. L. R. B., June 29, 1942; Matter of Bethlehem Steel
Corp. and C. I. 0., 30 N. L. R. B. 1006? 32 N. L. R. B. 264,
1941 (production and maintenance employees); Matter of
Bethlehem Steel Corp. and A. F. of L., 47 N. L. R. B. 1330,
1943 (plant protection employees); Matter of Bethlehem
Steel Corporationand C. 1. 0., 52 N. L. R. B. 1217, 1943
(employees in order department); Matter of Bethlehem Steel Co. and A. F. of L., 55 N. L. R. B. 658,
1944 (fire department employees). The companies contend that the National Board's jurisdiction over their labor relations is exclusive of state power; the State contends on the contrary that while federal power over the
subject is paramount, it is not exclusive and in such a case
as we have here, until the federal power is actually exercised as.to the particular employees, State power may be
exercised.
At the time the courts of the State of New York were
considering this issue, the question whether the Federal
Act would authorize or permit unionization of foremen
was in controversy and was unsettled until our decision
in Packard Motor Car Co. v. N. L. R. B., 330 U. S. 485.
Whatever constitutional issue may have been presented
by earlier phases of the evolution of the federal policy in relation to that of the State, the question now
is whether, Congress having undertaken to deal with the
relationship between these companies and their foremen,
the State is prevented from doing so. Congress has not
seen fit to lay down even the most general of guides to
construction of the Act, as it sometimes does, by saying
that its regulation either shall or shall not exclude state
action. Cf. Securities Act of 1933, § 18, 48 Stat. 85, 15
U. S. C. § 77r; Securities Exchange Act of 1934, § 28, 48
Stat. 903, 15 U. -S. C. § 78bb; United States Warehouse

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Act, § 29, before and after 1931 amendment, 39 Stat. 490,
46 Stat. 1465, 7 U. S. C. § 269. Our question is primarily
one of the construction to be put on the Federal Act. It
long has been the rule that exclusion of state action may be
implied from the nature of the legislation and the subject
matter although express. declaration of such result is
wanting. Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 272 U. S.
605.
In determining whether exclusion of state power will
or will not be implied, we well may consider the respective relation of federal and state power to the general
subject matter as illustrated by the case in hand. These
companies are authorized to do business in New York
State, they operate large manufacturing plants in that
state, they draw their labor supply from its residents, and
the impact of industrial strife in their plants is immediately felt by state police, welfare and other departments.
Their labor relations are primarily of interest to the state,
are within its competence legally and practically to regulate, and until recently were left entirely to state control.
Thus, the subject matter is not so "intimately blended
and intertwined with responsibilities of the national government" that its nature alone raises an inference of
exclusion. Cf. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 66.
Indeed, the subject matter is one reachable, and one
which Congress has reached, under the federal commerce
power, not because it is interstate commerce but because
under the doctrine given classic expression in the Shreveport case, Congress can reach admittedly local and intrastate activities "having such a close and substantial relation to interstate traffic that the control is essential or
appropriate to the security of that traffic, to the efficiency
of the interstate service, and to the maintenance of conditions under which interstate commerce may be conducted
upon fair terms and without molestation or hindrance."

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of the Court.

Houston & Texas Ry. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, 351.
See also National Labor Relations -Board v. Fainblatt,
306 U. S.601.
In the National Labor Relations Act, Congress has
sought to reach some aspects of the employer-employee
relation out of which such interferences arise. It has
dealt with the subject or relationship but partially, and
has left outside of the scope of its delegation other closely
related matters. Where it leaves the employer-employee
relation free of regulation in some aspects, it implies that
in such matters federal policy is indifferent, and since it
is indifferent to what tie individual of his own volition
may do we can only assume it to be equally indifferent
to what he may do under the compulsion of the state.
Such was the situation in Allen-Bradley Local v. Board,
315 U. S. 740, where we held that employee and union
conduct over which no direct or delegated federal power
was exerted by the National Labor Relations Act is left
open to regulation by the state. However, the power of
the state may not so deal with matters left to its control
as to stand "as an obstacle to the accomplishment and
execution of the-full purposes and objectives of Congress."
Hill v. Florida,325 U. S. 538, 542 Cf. Maurerv. Hamilton, 309 U. S. 598. When Congress has outlined its policy in rather general and inclusive terms and delegated
determination of their specific application to an administrative tribunal, the mere fact of delegation of power to
deal with the general matter, without agency action,
might preclude any state action if it is clear that Congress
has intended no regulation except its own. OregonWashington Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87. in other
cases, Congress has passed statutes which initiate regulation of certain activities, but where effective regulation
must wait upon the issuance of rules by an administrative
body. In the interval before those rules are established,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

this Court has usually held that the police power of the
state may be exercised. Northwestern Bell Telephone
Co. v. Nebraska State Commission, 297 U. S. 471;
Welch Co. v. New Hampshire,306 U. S. 79. But when
federal administration has made comprehensive regulations effectively governing the subject matter of the statjute, the Court has said that a state regulation in the field
of the statute is invalid even though that particular phase
of the subject has not been taken up by the federal agency.
Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 272 U. S. 605. However, when federal administrative regulation has been
slight under a statute which potentially allows minute and
multitudinous regulation of its subject, cf. Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280, or even where extensive regulations have been made, if the measure in question
relates to what may be considered a separable or distinct
segment of the matter covered by the federal statute and
the federal agency has not acted on that segment, the case
will be treated in a manner similar to cases in which the effectiveness of federal supervision awaits federal administrative regulation, Northwestern Bell Telephone Co. v.
Nebraska State Commission, supra; Welch Co. v. New
Hampshire, supra. The states are in those cases permitted to use their police power in the interval. Terminal
Railroad Assn. v. Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, 318
U. S. 1. However, the conclusion must be otherwise
where failure of the federal officials affirmatively to exercise their full authority takes on the character of a ruling
that no such regulation is appropriate or approved pursuant to the policy of the statute. Napier v. Atlantic
Coast Line, 272 U. S. 605; compare Oregon-Washington
Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87, with Parker v. Brown,
317 U. S. 341; cf. Mintz v. Baldwin, 289 U. S. 346.
It is clear that the failure of the National Labor Relations Board to entertain foremen's petitions vas of the

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of the Court.

latter class. There was no administrative concession
that the nature of these appellants' business put their employees beyond reach of federal authority. The Board
several times entertained similar proceedings by other
employees whose right rested on the same words of Congress. Neither did the National Board ever deny its own
jurisdiction over petitions because they were by foremen.
Soss Manufacturing Co., 56 N. L. R. B. 348. It made
clear that its refusal to designate foremen's bargaining
units was a determination and an exercise of its discretion
to determine that such units were not appropriate for bargaining purposes. Maryland Drydock Co., 49 N. L. R. B.
733. We cannot, therefore, deal with this as a case where
federal power has been delegated but lies dormant and
unexercised.
Comparison of the State and Federal statutes will show
that both governments have laid hold of the same relationslip for regulation, and it involves the same employers and the same employees. Each has delegated to an
administrative authority a wide discretion in applying
this plan of regulation to specific cases, and they are governed by somewhat different standards. Thus, if both
lawq are upheld, two administrative bodies are asserting
a discretionary control over the same subject matter, conducting hearings, supervising elections and determining
appropriate units for bargaining in the same plant. They
might come out with the same determination, or they
might come out with conflicting ones as they have in the
past. Cf. Matter of Creamery Package Mfg. Co.,
34 N. L. R. B. 108; Wisc. Emp. Rel. Bd. Case III,
No. 348 E-117. But the power to decide a matter
can hardly be made dependent on the way it is decided. As said by Mr. Justice Holmes for the Court,
"When Congress has taken the particular subjectmatter in hand coincidence is as ineffective as opposi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

tion . .

. ."

330 U. S.

CharlestonR. Co. v. Varnville Co., 237 U. S.

597, 604. See also Southern Railway Co. v. Railroad
Commission of Indiana,236 U. S.439, 448; Missouri Pacific R. R. v. Porter, 273 U. S. 341, 345-6. If the two
boards attempt to exercise a concurrent jurisdiction to
decide the appropriate unit of representation, action by
one necessarily denies the discretion of the other. The
second to act either must follow the first, which would
make its action useless and vain, or depart from it, which
would produce a mischievous conflict. The State argues
for a rule that would enable it to act until the federal
board had acted in the same case. But we do not think
that a case by case test of federal supremacy is permissible
here. The federal board has jurisdiction of the industry
in which these particular employers are engaged and has
asserted control of their labor relations in general. It
asserts, and rightfully so, under our decision in the Packard case, supra,its power to decide whether these foremen
may constitute themselves a bargaining unit. We do not
believe this leaves room for the operation of the state
authority asserted.
The National and State Boards have made a commendable effort to avoid conflict in this overlapping state
of the statutes. We find nothing in their negotiations,
however, which affects either the construction of the federal statute or the question of constitutional power insofar as they are involved in this case, since the National
Board made no concession or delegation of power to deal
with this subject. The election of the National Board to
decline jurisdiction in certain types of cases, for budgetary
or other reasons presents a different problem which we do
not now decide.
We therefore conclude that it is beyond the power of
New York State to apply.its policy to these appellants as

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

attempted herein. The judgments appealed from are
reversed and the causes remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent herewith.
Reversed.
Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER,

in

which MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

join.
The legal issue in these cases derives from our decision
in Packard Motor Car Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 330 U. S. 485. The Court there held that foremen are "employees" within § 2 (3) of the National
Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449, 450, and as such are
entitled to the rights of self-organization under the Act.
As the Packard case points out, the exercise of this
authority over foremen has had a chequered history
before the National Labor Relations Board. There was
a period when the Board in the exercise of its discretion
denied resort to its authority by foremen seeking collective bargaining representation. During that period, foremen of the two petitioning steel companies invoked the
jurisdiction of the New York State Labor Board to certify
them as a bargaining unit under the New York law descriptively characterized as a "Little Wagner Act" because it
enforces the same policies by the same means as does the
Wagner Act. The State Board assumed jurisdiction and
the New York Court of Appeals sustained that assumption.
Our problem is whether the National Labor Relations Act
in its entirety-the law as Congress gave it to the National
Board for administration-precluded this exercise of
State authority.
If the Court merelyheld that, having given the National
Board jurisdiction over foremen Congress also gave it discretion to determine that it may be undesirable, as a matt~r of industrial relations, to compel recognition of foremen's unions; that the Board had so exercised its discretion

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

330 U. S.

and, by refusing to sanction foremen's unions, had determined that foremen in enterprises like those before us
could not exact union recognition; that therefore New
York could not oppose such federal action by a contrary
policy of its own, I should concur in the Court's decision,
whatever the differences of interpretation to which the
course of events before the National Board may lend itself.
But the Court's opinion does not, as I read it, have. that
restricted scope, based on the individual circumstances
before us. Apart from the suggestion that the National
Board's declination of jurisdiction "in certain types of
cases, for budgetary or other reasons" might leave room
for the State in those situations, the Court's opinion carries at'least overtones of meaning that, regardless of the
consent of the National Board, New York is excluded from
enforcing rights of collective bargaining in all industries
within its borders as to which Congress has granted opportunity to invoke the authority of the National Board,
The inability of the National Board to exercise its dormant powers because of lack of funds ought not to furnish
a more persuasive reason for finding that concurrent
State power may function than a deliberate exercise of
judgment by the National Board that industrial relations
having both national and state concern can most effectively be promoted by an appropriate division of administrative resources between the National and the State
Boards. This states abstractly avery practical situatioa.
Based (n the realization that as a practical matter the
National Board could not effectuate the policies of the Act
committed to it over the whole range of its authority,
an arrangement was worked out whereby the National
Board leaves to the State Board jurisdiction over so-called
local industries covered by the federal Act, while the State
Board does not entertain matters over which the National
Board has consistently taken jurisdiction. This practical
Federal-State working arangement, arrived at by those

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

carrying the responsibility for breathing life into the bare
bones of legislation, is so relevant to the solution of the
legal issues arising out of State-Nation industrial interaction, that I have set forth the agreement in full in an
Appendix. Particularly when dealing with legal aspects
of industrial relations is it important for courts not to isolate legal issues from their workaday context. I cannot
join the Court's opinion because I read it to mean that it
is beyond the power of the National Board to-agree with
State agencies enforcing laws like the Wagner Act to
divide, with due regard to local interests, the domain over
which Congress had given the National Board abstract
discretion but which, practically, cannot be covered by it
alone. If such cooperative agreements between State and
National Boards are barred because the power which Congress has granted to the National Board ousted or superseded State authority, I am unable to see how State authority can revive because Congress has seen fit to put the
Board on short rations.
Since we are dealing with aspects of commerce between
the States that are not legally outside State action
by virtue of the Commerce Clause itself, New York
has authority to act so long as Congress has not interdicted
her action. While what the State does she does on sufferance, in ascertaining whether Congress has allowed State
action we are not to consider. the matter as though Congress .were conferring a mere bounty, the extent of which
must be viewed with a thrifty eye. When construing federal legislation that deals with matters that also lie within
the authority, because within the proper interests, of the
States, we must be mindful that we are part of the delicate
process of adjusting the interacting areas of National and
State authority over commerce. The inevitable extension
of federal authority over economic enterprise has absorbed
the authority that was previously left to the States. But
in legislating, Congress is not indulging in doctrinaire,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

330 U. S.

hard-and-fast curtailment of the State powers reflecting
special State interests. Federal legislation of this character must be construed with due regard to accommodation between the assertions of new federal authority and
the functions of the individual States, as reflecting the historic and persistent concerns of our dual system of government. Since Congress can, if it chooses, entirely displace
the'States to the full extent of the far-reaching Commerce
Clause, Congress needs no help from generous judicial implications to achieve the supersession of State authority.
To construe federal legislation so as not needlessly to
forbid preexisting State authority is to respect our federal
system. Any indulgence in construction should be in
favor of the States, because Congress can speak with
drastic clarity whenever it chooses to assure full federal
authority,. completely displacing the States.
This is an old problem and the considerations involved
in its solution are commonplace. But results not always
harmonious have from time to time been drawn from the
same precepts. In law also the emphasis makes the song.
It may make a decisive difference what view judges have
of the place of the States in our national life when they
come to apply the governing principle that for an Act of
Congress completely to displace a State law "the repugnance or conflict should be direct and positive, so that
the two acts could not be reconciled or consistently stand
together." Sinnot v. Davenport,22 How. 227, 243. Congress can speak so unequivocally as to leave no doubt.
But real controversies arise only when Congress has left
the matter in doubt, and then the result depends- on
whether we require that actual conflict between State and
federal action be shown, or whether argumentative conflict
suffices.
Our general problem was only recently canvassed inthe
three opinions in Hill v. Florida,325 U. S.538. But the

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFUtRTER, J.

frequent recurrence of the problem and the respective legislative and judicial share in its proper solution justify
some repetition. It may be helpful to recall the circumspection with which federal absorption of authority previously belonging to the States was observed in the control
of railroad rates.
In the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, this Court,
after elaborate argument and extended consideration, held
that State rates covering intrastate transportation could
not be stricken down judicially even though it may be
shown that such rates adversely affect carriers in their interstate aspects. This decision was based largely on the
respect to be accorded to the respective functions of State
and national authority, as evinced by Congressional and
judicial history. But a year latei, the Court held that
when the Interstate Commerce Commission found that
State regulation of local rates was designed to operate discriminatorily against related interstate commerce, the
Interstate Commerce Act authorized removal of the discrimination against the interstate rates. Houston, East
and West R. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S.342. Nevertheless, so important did this Court deem respect for State
power that it would not allow the Shreveport doctrine to
be loosely used as a curtailment of State authority. Accordingly, it insisted on precision and definiteness in the
orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission in this interacting area. Illinois Central R. Co. v. State Public
Utilities Commission, 245 U. S: 493. Subsequently, by
the Transportation Act of 1920, Congress formalized the
Shreveport doctrine and extended its scope. The Commission was expressly authorized to correct State rates that
Were unreasonable with reference to related interstate
rates, and was also given control over State rates which adversely affected interstate commerce as such. See § 13,
par. 4 of the Ihterstate Commerce Act, as amended by

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

330 U. S.

§§ 416 and 422 of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat.
456, 484, 488; Wisconsin Railroad Commission v. C. B. &
Q. R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; New York v. United States, 257
U. S. 591. It is not without significance that in exercising
this new power Congress associated with the Interstate
Commerce Commission the appropri ate State agencies in
an advisory capacity. Even where foreign commerce is
involved, as to which State control is naturally viewed with
less favor, this Court has not ruled out State authority derived from a State interest where State regulation was
found to be complementary to federal regulation. Union
Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202, 208-09.
No doubt, as indicated, cases have not always dealt with
such scrupulous regard for State action where Congress
has not patently terminated it. Metaphor-"occupied
the field"-has at times done service for close analysis.
But the rules of accommodation that have been most consistently professed as well as the dominant current of dcisions make for and not against the modus vivendi achieved
by the two agencies in the labor relations field, which
the Government, as amicus curiae, here sponsored. Such
an arrangtment assures the effectuation of the policies
'which underlie both the National Labor Relations Act and
the "Little Wagner Act" of New York in a manner agreed
upon by the two Boards for dealing with matters affecting
interests of common concern. "Where the Government
has provided for collaboration the courts should not find
conflict." Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202,
209.
What is before us is a very real and practical situation. The vast range of jurisdiction which the National
Labor Relations Act has conferred upon the Board
raises problems of administration wholly apart from available funds. As a result of this Court's decision in National
Labor Relations Board v. Fainblatt,306 U. S. 601, untold

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

783

J.

small enterprises are subject to the power of the Board.
While labor difficulties in these units in the aggregate
may unquestionably have serious repercussions upon interstate commerce, in their individualized aspects they are
equally the concern of their respective localities. Accordingly, the National Labor Relations Board, instead of
viewing the attempt of State agencies to enforce the principles of collective bargaining as an encroachment upon
national authority, regards the aid of the State agencies as
an effective means of accomplishing a common end. Of
course, as Mr. Justice Holmes said, "When Congress has
taken the particular subject-matter in hand coincidence is
as ineffective as opposition" to save the State law. But
surely this is so only when the State seeks "to enforce a
state policy differently conceived .

. . ."

Charleston &

Western CarolinaR. R. Co. v. Varnville Furniture Company, 237 U. S. 597, 604.
The National Board's business explains the reason and
supports the reasonableness behind its desire to share burdens that may be the State's concern no less than the Nation's. The Board's Annual Reports show increasing
arrears. At the end of the fiscal year 1944, 2602 cases
were pending; at the end of 1945, 3244; at the end of 1946,
there were 4605 unfinished cases. A shrewd critic has thus
expressed the considerations that in the past have often
lain below the surface of merely doctrinal applications:
"Formally the enterprise is one of the interpretation of
the Act of Congress to discover its scope. Actually it is
often the enterprise of reaching a judgment whether the
situation is so adequately handled by national prescription
that the impediment of further state requirements is to be
deemed a bane rather than a blessing." T. R. Powell,
Current Conflicts Between the Commerce Clause and
State PolicePower, 12 Minn. L. Rev. 607. In the submission by the Board before us, we have the most authorita-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

330 U. S.

tive manifestation by national authority that State
collaboration would be a blessing rather than a bane, and
yet judicial construction would forbid the aid which the
agency of Congress seeks in carrying out its duty. It is
surely a responsible inference that the the result will be to
leave uncontrolled large areas of industrial conflict.
Neither what Congress has said in the National Labor
Relations Act, nor the structure of the Act, nor its policy,
nor its actual operation, should be found to prohibit the
Board from exercising its discretion so as to enlist the aid
of agencies charged with like duties within the States in
enforcing a common policy by a distribution of cases appropriate to respective State and National interests.
APPENDIX.
Documents Indicating Understanding Between the New
York and the National Labor Relations Boards
NEW YORK STATE LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

250 West 57th Street
NEW YORK 19
WILLIAM E. GRAiBY,Jr.
General Counsel
JULY

10, 1945.

Esquire
GeneralCounsel,
National Labor Relations Board,
Washington,D. C.

ALVIN J.ROCKWELL,

.DEAR MR. ROCKWELL: The Board has examined your
meeror~ndum of our conference of April 20, 1945 and
considers thab it represents a fair statement of the proceedings.
As to. insurance colppanies (page 6 of your memo), you
will recall that we -mentioned our prior experience with

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

such companies and the fact that units of less than statewide scope have been established and upheld by the courts.
In such cases, therefore, we think it would be to the benefit
of both Boards that you clear with us. A situation may
very easily arise in which you would prefer to have us
entertain a petition whikh had been filed with us.
Best regards.
Sincerely,
/s/
WILLIAM E. GRADY, Jr.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,

Washington 25, D. C., July 26, 1945.
WILLIAM

E. GRADY, Jr.,

General Counsel,
New York State LaborRelations Board,
250 West 57th Street,
New York City 19, N. Y.
DEAR MR. GRADY: In Mr. Rockwell's absence on vacation this week, I am replying to your letter of July 10.
Mr. Rockwell's memorandum of our conference of April
20 and your letter were discussed with and approved by
the Members of the Board.
We are, accordingly, circulating copies of this memorandum to the members of our staffs in the Buffalo and
New York City offices. This memorandum and your letter will hereafter be followed as a guide in relations between the two Boards as regards cases arising in New
York State.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Oscar S. Smith
OSCAR S. SMITH,

Directorof Field Division.

786

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

330 U. S.

MEMORANDUM RE CONFERENCE BETWEEN REPRESENTATIVES OF NEW YORK STATE LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
AND NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD, HELD FRIDAY,

APRIL 20, 1945
A conference was held at the offices of the New York
State Labor Relations Board on Friday, April 20, 1945,
attended by Father Kelley, Chairman, and Board Members Goldberg and Lorenz, Executive Secretary Goldberg,
General Counsel Grady, and Associate General Counsel
Feldblum, of the New York State Labor Relations Board,
and by Field Director Smith, New York Regional Director
Howard LeBaron, General Counsel Rockwell, and New
York Regional Attorney Perl, of the National Labor Relations Board. The subject of the conference was the
proper division of jurisdittion between the National and
State Boards.
This conference followed an earlier conference held on
January 9, 1945, in Washington, between Messrs. Smith
and Rockwell and Buffalo Regional Director Ryder representing the NLRB, and Messrs. Goldberg and Feldblum,
representing the New York Board. At the conference in
Washington, the principal subject discussed was the action
of the State Board in entertaining election petitions involving the employees of large interstate manufacturing
establishments over which the National Board has customarily asserted jurisdiction. The cases in question
related to petitions filed by labor organizations which
sought to be certified as representatives of units of supervisory employees or, in one case, a labor organization
which sought to represent non-supervisory employees but
whose membership was composed of a substaRtial number
of supervisors. At the time of the January coiference,
the Board's decision in the Packardcase, 61 N. L: R. B.,
No. 3, had not, been issued; it appeared that in certifying
a labor organization for supervisory employees the State

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion* of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

Board was taking action contrary to that which would
have been taken by the National Board had the petition
been filed with it. It was also believed thit the action
of the State Board in proceeding to a certification of a
labor organization for non-supervisory employees whose
membership included supervisors in substantial number
might be contrary to the National Board's disposition of
the case under its decision in Matter of Rochester & Pittsburgh Coal Co., 56 N. L. R. B. 1760. No understanding
was reached with regard to these types of cases at the
January conference. In the meantime, on March 26,
1945, the Board issued its decision in the Packard case,
holding that it would proceed to certify unaffiliated unions
as representative of supervisory employees and leaving
open the question of whether it would proceed to certify
affiliated unions as such representatives. The New York
conference was arranged in order to discuss the types of
cases which were the subject of the January conference
and also to canvass in general the question of the respective jurisdictions of the two Boards.
The New York confcrence began with consideration of
Father Boland's letter to Mr. Madden dated July 12, 1937,
which has constituted the principal basis of understanding
between the two Boards during the ensuing years. The
Boland letter states:
Unless there are unusual circumstances, the New
York State Labor Relations Board will assume jurisdiction over all cases arising in the following trades
and industries, without clearing, except as a matter
of record, with the National Board's officials:
1. Retail stores,
2. Small industries which receive all or practically
all raw materials from within the State of New York,
and do not ship any material proportion of their
product outside the State,
3. Service trades (such as laundries),

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

330 U. S.

4. Office and residential buildings,
5. Small and clearly local public utilities, (This
includes local traction companies, as well as gas and
electric light corporations.)
6. Storage warehouses,
7. Construction operations,
8. Other obviously local businesses.
A copy of the letter of July 12, 1937, is attached to this
memorandum.'
At the time of the preparation of the letter of July 12
and the conference which preceded it and upon which
it is based, there was relatively little case law as to the
jurisdiction under the commerce clause of the National
Board under the National Act. Since that time there
has been a large number of decisions in the federal circuit
courts of appeals and several in the Supreme Court which
have substantially extended the Board's jurisdiction beyond that which was understood to exist in July 1937.
To take only one pertinent example: In July 1937 the
Board had not asserted jurisdiction over retail establishments. Since 1937 the Board has accepted a considerable
number of cases involving retail establishments such as
department stores and the Board's power in this respect
has been sustained by the courts.. Notwithstanding this
extension of jurisdiction under the, National Act, the National and State Boards, resIlectively; have, in general,
followed the understanding r6flected by the letter of July
12, 1937. Thus, in New York State the National Board
has:not asserted jurisdiction over retail establishments.
The representatives at the conference of April 20 expressed the view that, by and large, the understanding
had'worked out well as applied to the types of businesses
there dealt with. The position was repeatedly expressedby tle representatives of both National and State Boards
that hs a working matter the jurisdiction between the two
Boards must be allotted on the basis of the type of indus-

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

789

J.

try or business involved (rather, for example, than on
the basis of which Board a petition or charge is initially
filed with), and that when one Board, pursuant to com-

mon understanding, has asserted jurisdiction in the past
over a particular employer, the other Board should thereafter refer any matters coming to it to1 the Board which

had entertained the earlier case or cases.

Following reference to the letter of July 12, there was
detailed discussion of the eight categories there listed,
which are quoted above. The gist of this discussion was
as follows: Retail stores. Where the same company operates retail stores and also does a substantial interstate
mail order business from within New York State, representatives of the National Board pointed out that probably the National Act should be applied to the company.
The understanding was reached that before the State
Board asserted jurisdiction in the future over any such
companies, the case would be cleared with the National
Board through the New York City or Buffalo offices, depending upon the region in which the case arose. Service
trades. Where a New York concern is in the business of
furnishing guards, window washers, laundry, or some
other type of service within the State, it was felt that the
business is essentially local in character and should be
subject to the State Act even though the services are
1 In Consolidated Edison Co. v. N. L. R. B., 305 U. S. 197, 223,
the Supreme Court indicated that in deciding whether or not to
assert jurisdiction the National Board could properly take into account
the existence of State protective legislation, such as the New York
State Labor Relations Act.
The National Act contains no provision authorizing the National
Board to enter into compacts or agreements with State Boards, but
would seem to require the National Board in each case to exercise
its discrefion whether or not to proceed. It is believed, nevertheless,
that understandings such as that embodied in the letter of July 12,
1937, although of no legal effect, assist both Boards in determining
the proper dispositionof particular cases as they arise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

330 U. S.

furnished to a number of large interstate enterprises,
which in themselves are subject to the jurisdiction of the
National Act. (An exception is the case of detective
agencies doing business on a national scale, concerning
which, it is understood, the State Board will clear with
the National Board before asserting jurisdiction.) On
the other hand, where the interstate enterprise, over
which the National Board would customarily assert jurisdiction, supplies its own guard, window washing, laundry,
or other service for itself, it was believed that the employees involved would rightly come within the jurisdiction of the National Act. The test here is whether the
service is performed by a separate business establishment
which can properly be considered a local enterprise, even
though services are rendered to interstate businesses, or
whether the service is rendered by the interstate enterprise itself as an incident of its own business. Office
buildings. The same test applicable to the service trades
was also thought to be applicable to office buildings.
Thus, if the employer involved is in the business of operating office buildings he is subject to the State Act even
though tenants consist of interstate enterprises. On the
other hand, where the office building is owned or operated,
or both, by an interstate enterprise, over which the National Board would customarily assert jurisdiction, and
is used by the interstate enterprise in conducting its interstate business, the National Board would expect to assert
jurisdiction. Public utilities. It was agreed that the
New York Board could properly assert jurisdiction over
such utilities, including electric, gas, traction, bus companies, and the like which are not themselves engaged
in supplying service across the State line. In short,
where the National Board could only base its jurisdiction
on the "affecting conimerce" principle (plus the shipment into the State of fuel and capital equipment, not for
resale), it was believed in general that the National Board

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

could properly leave jurisdiction to the State Board. An
exception to this working rule is provided by a few very
large utilities, such as the Consolidated Edison Company,
ovdr which the National Board originally asserted jurisdiction. Warehouses. The test applied in the case of
service trades and office buildings seems applicable to
warehouses, the question being whether they are operated
as separate local enterprises or as incidents of the operation of interstate business over which the National Board
would customarily take jurisdiction. Construction business. The New York Board is expected to assert jurisdiction over the construction industry except, for example,
in the case of the construction of ships, which is thought
of as falling within the field of manufacturing, over which,
in general, the National Board asserts jurisdiction.
In addition to the foregoing lines of activity, referred
to in the letter of July 12, 1937, two other businesses not
dealt with in that letter were also discussed. Insurance
companies. In the past both the State and the National
Boards have intermittently asserted jurisdiction over insurance companies. So far as small insurance, bonding,
casualty companies. etc., doing business primarily within
the State are concerned, it was felt that the State Board
* should occupy this field. So far as the large national
companies are concerned, however, the representatives
of the National Board expressed the view that hereafter
cases involving such companies should be handled by the
latter Board. In this connection it was pointed out that
as organization has matured among the large companies,
State-wide and even larger units are being established
and that this type of activity had therefore advanced to
the stage where it was peculiarly the interest of the National Board. It was agreed that the State Board would
not entertain any cases involving the large national companies without prior clearance with the National Board.
Newspapers. The National Board has taken jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

330 U. S.

over large daily newspapers in New York and other States
and, where challenged, has been uniformly sustained in
this by the courts. At the same time, the circulation
departments of such newspapers, to the extent that the
distributing activity is confined within a single State, are
in many aspects local in character. In New York State,
and particularly in New York City, where news vendors
are subject to local licensing requirements, the National
Board feels that cases involving the distribution of newspapers should properly be handled by the State Board.
Consistent with this approach, the New York Regional
Office of the National Board has recently referred to the
State Board news vendor cases involving four of the largest afternoon newspapers in New York City. The representatives of the State Board expressed agreement with
this approach and indicated that the proper line of division might come at the level of the circulation managers.
It was agreed that hereafter neither Board will accept
cases at the circulation manager level without prior clearance with the other Board; that cases above this level
will be handled by the National Board; and that cases
below this level will be handled by the State Board. Of
course, small newspapers of limited circulation, will properly be handled by the State Board.
Concurrent jurisdiction.2 The letter of July 12, 1937,
left open the question of "concurrent jurisdiction"-by
which, it is understood, was meant the procedure to be
followed in the case of employers who might simultaneously. be subject ito the requirements of both the State
and NationaJ Acts. The letter stated: "So far as concurrent jurisdiction is concerned, we assume that even a
tentative understanding must await mutual study of the
memorandum which Mr. Fahy is now preparing." It
2

See Davega-City Radio, Inc. v. New York Labor Relations Board,
281 N. Y. 13; 22 N. E. 2nd 145; 4 L. R. R. Man. 899. (July 11,

1939.)

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

appears that the memorandum referred to was never prepared and that no subsequent understanding was reached
as to such concurrent jurisdiction. In practice, this does
not seem to have been a problem, except in the situation
discussed below, since the State Board has by and large
confined its activities to the businesses detailed in the
letter of July 12 and the National Board in turn has left
this field open to the State Board. The problem of socalled "concurrent jurisdiction" has arisen in recent
months because, following the National Board's decision
in Matter of Maryland Drydock Company, 49 N. L. R. B.
733, a number of labor organizations have filed election
petitions with the State Board which they knew would
not be entertained by the National Board. (See the second paragraph of this memorandum, above, concerning
the conference of January 9,1945, in Washington.) Prior
to the Maryland Drydock case, the State Board, it is
understood, had refrained from entertaining cases involving large interstate manufacturers and the National
Board had asserted exclusive jurisdiction over such
employers.
At the conference of April 20 the representatives
of the
National Board pointed to the recent decision in the
Packard case and suggested that the State Board should
adhere to its general policy of leaving all cases involving
large manufacturing establishments doing interstate business to the National Board. The impracticability of both
Boards intermittently asserting jurisdiction over the same
employer was emphasized, and in addition the question
was raised whether under the Federal Constitution the
State Board could lawfully enforce any requirement
against such employers which was inconsistent with or
which imposed restraints in addition to those enforced by
the National Board. The representatives of the New
York Board agreed that cases of this type presented a
legal problem but were of the view that it was advisable

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

330 U. S.

FRANKFURTER, J.

for the State Board to entertain election petitions for
units of supervisory employees where it was doubtful
whether the National Board would proceed with the case
were it filed with the latter Board. The representatives
of the New York Board pointed to their obligation to
contribute to the maintenance of industrial peace within
the borders of New York State and recalled a provision
of the New York Constitution which guarantees organizational rights to all employees. The representatives of
the latter Board agreed, however, that their officials should
not reach out for cases of this character, involving large
interstate manufacturers, and that they would keep the
National Board advised as to all such cases they decided to
entertain. Thus, no broad understanding was reached
on this score, both Boards reserving their respective positions with regard to petitions for units of supervisory
employees and other petitions involving large interstate
manufacturers.
It was believed that it would be helpful to the work
of both Boards if lists of cases entertained within the
State were periodically exchanged. The details of this
were left to be worked out.
BoAmm,
July 12, 1937.

NEW YORK STATE LABOR RELATIoNs

Honorable J. WARREN MADpEN,
National Labor Relations Board,
Washington,D. C.
DEAR MR. MADDEN: We wish, in the first place, to

thank you and your colleagues for your warm reception
of last Wednesday. It is gratifying to know that we can
look forward to such wholehearted cooperation from your
Board and its staff. We will gladly reciprocate.
As requested, we outline our recollection of the understandings reached. So far as concurrent -jurisdiction is

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.
767

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

concerned, we assume that even a tentative understanding
must await mutual study of the memorandum which Mr.
Fahy is now preparing.
Unless there are unusual circumstances, the New York
State Labor Relations Board will assume jurisdiction over
all cases arising in the following trades and industries,
without clearing, except as a matter of record, with the
National Board's officials:
1. Retail stores,
2. Small industries which receive all or practically
all raw materials from within- the State of New York,
and do not ship any material proportion of their
product outside the State,
3. Service trades (such as laundries),
4. Office and residential buildings,
5. Small and clearly local public utilities, (this includes local traction companies, as well as gas and
electric light corporations),
6. Storage warehouses,
7. Construction operations,
8. Other obviously local businesses.
Clearance is certainly going to be required in the case
of industries where the raw materials or most of them
come from without the State, but the product is not
shipped beyond the borders of New York. (The question here is as to the breadth of application of the "come
to rest" doctrine of the Schechter case.)
You are familiar, of course, with Section 715 of our statute, part of which reads as follows: "Application of article.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the employees of any employer who concedes to and agrees with
the board that such employees are subject to and protected by the provisions of the national labor-relations
act or the federal railway labor act . . .". The New York
State Board will undoubtedly take the position that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

330 U. S.

words "agrees with" contemplate the necessity of our
Board's agreeing with the employer that his employees
are subject to the national statute, and that no employer
can by unilateral action select his jurisdiction.
This however, does not solve all of the problems created
by the Section, since it is clear that even the agreement
of this Board with the employer will not necessarily
bestow federal jurisdiction under the Constitution. Presumably every time such a concession is proffered by an
employer, our Board will have to clear with the National
Board officials in the same way it would clear with them
if no such concession were made.
It is our understanding that we should clear on all
questions of jurisdiction with the Regional Directors in
New York City and Buffalo in the first instance, and that
you will instruct your Directors to reciprocate by clearing
with us all doubtful cases which first come to their
attention.
Whenever this Board and either of your Regional Directors find themselves unable to agree, the matter will be
taken up with you at once.
We would appreciate knowing that your recollection
and understanding of the above are in accord with our
own.
Very sincerely yours,
s/ John P. Boland

(Dr.)

JOHN

P.

BOLAND,

Chairman.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
MINUTES OF AUGUST 16, 1946

An informal inquiry was made to the Board by United
Financial Employees Association asking whether the
Board would entertain a Section 9 representation petition
on behalf of the employees of Harris Upham and Company, a New York brokerage house. The Board was also

BETHLEHEM CO. v. STATE BOARD.'
767

Opinion of

797

FRANKFuRTER, J.

advised that similar petitions were contemplated for the
employees of a number of similar New York brokerage
houses. The Board concluded that it would not, at this
time, entertain a petition filed on behalf of the employees
of Harris Upham and Company or other such brokerage
*houses because of budgetary and other administrative
considerations. The Board further concluded that, in
view of this disposition, it had no objection to having
the State Labor Relations Board of the State of New York
entertain such petitions filed under the State Act.
Dated at Washington, D. C.
August 16, 1946.
Donn N. Bent
DONN

N.

BENT,

Executive Secretary.
Approved:
s/ P.M.H.
s/ J.M.H.
Certified to be a true and correct copy.
s/ Donn N. Bent,
DONN N.

BENT,

Executive Secretary.

