UTE INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
160

169

Syllabus.

viction under count one, charging Bozza with aiding and
abetting in a tax fraud scheme.
In view of this conclusion, MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE reserves expression of opinion concerning the legality of the
sentence.
CONFEDERATED BANDS OF UTE INDIANS v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 141.

Argued January 14, 15, 1947.-Decided February 17, 1947.

By a treaty of 1868 between 'the United States and the Ute Indians, a
reservation was established for the Indians in Colorado. Subsequently, an erroneous survey showed the northern boundary to be
south of the true boundary and as excluding the White River Valley
lands which actually were in the reservation. Believing the survey
to be accurate and desiring to preserve these lands for the use of the
Indians, the President, by an Executive Order of 1875, withdrew
from sale and "set apart for the use of the . . . Ute Indians, as an
addition to the present reservation in said Territory" a strip of land
north "of the present Ute Indian Reservation." Later, in order to
punish the Indians for a massacre, dispossess them of the reserva-.
tion, and remove them from Colorado, Congress passed the Act of
June 15, 1880, 21 Stat. 199, which.ratified and embodied an agreement by their leaders to cede to the United States all territory of
"the present Ute Reservation," and provided that all lands so ceded
and not allotted specifically to individual Indians would be restored
to the public domain for sale as lublic .lands and that, subject to
certain conditions, the proceeds of their sale should be distributed to
the Indians. An Executive Order of 1882 declared that the lands
"set apart for the use of the . . . Ute Indians" by the Executive
Order of 1875 is "hereby restored to the public domain." The Indians brought this suit under the Act of June 28, 1938, 52 Stat. 1209,
as amended, 55 Stat. 593, to obtain compensation for the lands north
of the original reservation made available to them by the Executive
Order of 1875. Held':
1. Insofar as the claim rests on -the Executive Order of 1875, it
cannot be sustained. P. 1Do.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

330 U. S.

(a) The President had no authority to convey to the Indians
a compensable interest in the lands lying north of the true boundary
of the reservation created by the treaty of 1868. Pp. 176, 180.
(b) The Executive Order of 1875 made the Indians no more
than tenants at will of the Government on that part of the land
outside the true treaty reservation. P. 176.
(c) The real purpose of the Executive Order was to protect
the Indians' enjoyment of the White River Valley lands conveyed
to them by the original treaty; and this purpose has been accomplished. Pp. 177, 180.
2. The Act of June 15, 1880, gives the Indians no right to recover
for the land north of the true boundary of the treaty reservation
set apart for their use by the Executive Order of 1875. Pp. 177180.
(a) It contains nothing showing a congressional purpose to
convey such lands to the Indians. P. 177.
(b) Nor was it intended to transform the Executive Order
into a conveyance of g compensable interest in lands not included
in the original treaty. reservation. Pp. 178, 180.
(c) It was intended to compensate them only for the lands in
the original reservation which they ceded to the United States.
P. 178.
(d) The fact that it provided for the cession of the "present
Ute Reservation" is not sufficient to attribute to Congress a purpose
to treat as part of that reservation lands which never had been
legally conveyed to the Indians and had only been made available
to them for the sole purpose of making them secure in their possession of the White River Valley. Pp. 178-179.
3. Even if the Indians understood in 1880 that they owned the
lands described in the Executive Order of 1875 lying north of the
White River Valley, that their "present Ute Reservation" included
*them, and that Congress undertook by the 1880 Act to sell these
lands for their benefit, and, even if Congress was aware of this
understanding, this would not require a different result, in view of
the fact that the Act neither conveyed nor ratified conveyance of
these lands. , P. 179.
4. While a treaty with Indians is to be construed so as to carry
out t p Government's obligations in accordance with the fair understanding of the Indians, this Court cannot, under the guise of
interpretation create presidential authority where there was none
or rewrite congressional acts so as to make them mean something
they obviously were not intended to mean. P. 179.
106 Ct. Cl. 33,64 F. Supp. 569, affirmed.

UTE INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
169

Opinion of the Court.

In a suit by the Ute Indians under the Act of June 28,
1938, 52 Stat. 1209, as amended, 55 Stat. 593, to recover
compensation for lands made available to them by an 1875
Executive Order of the President and subsequently taken
from them by the United States, the Court of Claims held
that they had no compensable interest in such lands. 106
Ct. Cl. 33, 64 F. Supp. 569. This Court granted certiorari.
329 U. S. 694. Affirmed, p. 180.
Ernest L. Wilkinson argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were John W. Cragun, Francis M.
Goodwin and Glen A. Wilkinson.
Marvin J. Sonosky argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Bazelon,
Roger P. Marquis and Fred W. Smith.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioners brought this action in the Court of Claims
under the Act of June 28, 1938, 52 Stat. 1209, as amended,
55 Stat. 593, to recover compensation for lands made available to them by an 1875 Executive Order of the President
and subsequently taken from them by the United States.
Their claim was that by an Act of 1880, Congress had undertaken to sell these -lands for the benefit of the petitioners, but that they had never been compensated for them.
The Court of Claims, one judge concurring specially, made
findings of fact and concluded as a matter of law that petitioners had no compensable interest in the lands because
they "never did acquire title to these . . . lands and . . .
the Congress never did agree to sell them for the account
of" petitioners. 106 Ct. Cl. 33, 51, 64 F. Supp. 569, 571.
We granted certiorari, 329 U. S. 694.
The findings of the Court of Claims from official letters, Executive Orders and statutes incorporated in these
findings were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

A treaty of 1868, 15 Stat. 619, between the United States
and petitioners' ancestors, the Ute Indian tribes, established a reservation for them in Colorado. The northern
boundary of the 15 million acres there ceded was described
in the treaty as a line fifteen miles north of, and parallel
to, the 40th parallel of north latitude. In the 15-mile
wide strip north of the 40th parallel lay the White River
Valley which had been settled by the Utes as a most suitable place for grazing and cultivation. One of the two
Government Indian agencies provided for the reservation
by the treaty was established in that strip.
As a result of misunderstandings in 1869 and 1874 between the Utes and white settlers to the north as to the
true location of the northern treaty boundary, a survey
was made in 1875 by one Miller. Miller's instructions,
however, required him to stake out a line which he admitted to the' local Indian agent and to the Utes themselves to be fifteen to eighteen miles south of the tr.ue
boundary described in the treaty. If Miller's line had
been correct, it would have excluded from the 1868 reservation the fertile White River Valley, and would have also
excluded the agency buildings which had been erected
there.
The marking out of the erroneous Miller line greatly
upset the Indians because they feared they would be
driven from the White River Valley. This embarrassed
the local Indian agent who had previously assured the
Indians that the White River Valley lay within their res=
ervation. He promptly reported the results of the survey
and the reaction of the Indians to the Commissioner of
Iridian Affairs in Washington, and urged the necessity of a
new survey at the earliest practicable date. He stated
that if the Miller survey were correct, however, the In.dians would be driven from the White River Valley-"the
only farming land and

. . .

stock range

. . .

in this

portion'of the Reservation"-and forced to settle on

UTE INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
169

Opinion of the Court.

a river forty miles to the south. The Commissioner,
acting on this report and a statement by Miller's
attorney that Miller's line was correct, wrote to the
Secretary of the Interior that the Miller survey "develops the fact that the White River and surrounding
valleys as well as the Agency buildings and improvements at the White River Agency lie north of the . . .
boundary and consequently are not within the limits
of the . . Ute Reservation." He therefore recommended to the Secretary that the President be requested
to issue an Executive Order to make available to the Utes
additional territory north of the 1868 treaty boundary.
The President, on the recommendation of the Secretary of
the Interior, issued the order.1 And thereafter the Commissioner wrote the local agent that the order included "all
that tract of country lying between the north boundary of
the Ute reservation as defined in treaty of March 2,
1868 . . . which was the boundary surveyed by Mr.
Miller . . . This action fully protects your Indians in
the peaceable possession of their improvements in the
White River valley and the Agency buildings, and will
enable you to assure the Indians of the exact location of
the limits of their reservation as enlarged."
'The Executive Order of November 22, 1875, 1 Kappler, Indian
Affairs, Laws and Treaties, 834 (1904) is as follows:
"It is hereby ordered that the tract of country in the Territory
of Colorado lying within the following-described boundaries, viz:
Commencing at the northeast corner of the present Ute Indian
Reservation, as defined in the treaty of March 2, 1868 (Stats. at
Large, vol. 15, p. 619); thence running north on the 107th degree
of longitude to the first standard parallel north; thence west on
said first standard parallel to the boundary line between Colorado
and Utah; thence south with said boundary to the northwest
corner of the Ute Indian Reservation; thence east with the north
boundary of the said reservation to the place of beginning, be,
and the same hereby is, withdrawn from sale and set apart for
the use of the several tribes of Ute Indians, as an addition to the
present reservation in said Territory.".

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

In 1879, several years after the Executive Order was
issued, hostilities broke out between some of the Utes and
Government representatives in which the Indian agent at
White River, all the agency's male employees, and a U. S.
military detachment were killed in the so-called "Meeker
massacre." H. R. Ex. Doc. No. 1, pt. 5, 46th Cong., 2d
Sess. (1879) 16-19, 82-97. There have been charges and
countercharges as to who was responsible for inciting these
hostilities. Whoever was responsible, it is clear that Congress, aroused by the massacre, took steps, to punish the
Indians who participated in it, to dispossess the Utes of
their reservation, and to remove them from Colorado.
Congressional action to accomplish this was provided.by
the Act of June 15, 1880, 21 Stat. 199, which ratified and
embodied an agreement reached earlier that year between
the Government and the leaders of the Utes who had
promised "to use their best endeavors with their people to
procure their consent to cede to the United States all
the territory of the present Ute Reservation .

. . ."

This

Act authorized specific allotments to individual Indians
from the lands so ceded. But ยง3 provided that "all the
lands not . . . allotted; the title to which is, by the said
agreement of . . . the Ute Indians, and this acceptance by

the United States, released and conveyed to the United
States

. . ."

would be restored to the public domain for

sale as public lands. The proceeds of the sale of the land
so conveyed by the Utes to the United States were, upon
satisfaction of indemnity conditions imposed because of
the massacre, to be distributed to the Indians. Thereafter,
in 1882, an Executive Order declared that the 'lands withdrawn from the public domain by the Executive Order
of 1875 and "set apart for the use of the... Ute
Indians . . . hereby is, restored to the public domain."

1 Kappler, supra, 834-835.
Pursuant to an Act of 1909, 35 Stat. 781, petitioners recovered a judgment for the proceeds.. of certain lands sold

UTE INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
169

Opinion of the Court.

by the Government, as well as the value of certain lands
appropriated by the Government to its own use, all of
which were part of the 1868 treaty lands. Ute Indians v.
United States, 45 Ct. Cl. 440, 46 Ct. Cl. 225. Thus, except
for certain treaty lands not at issue here, litigation concerning which is now pending in the Court of Claims, the
only lands in Colorado for which the Indians have not
been paid are those to the north of and outside the 1868
treaty reservation which were made available to them by
the Executive Order of 1875. In pursuit of compensation
for these Executive Order lands, petitioners have brought
this action pursuant to the Act of June 28, 1938. supra.
That Act confers jurisdiction on. the Court of Claims to
hear, determine, and render final judgment on all legal and
equitable claims of the Utes and to award judgment for
the Indians where it is found "that any lands formerly
belonging" to them "have been taken by the United States
without compensation .... "
Petitioners contend here that their predecessors understood that they not only owned the White River Valley
lands, but that they also owned the Executive Order lands
when, in 1880, they agreed to cede their reservation; and
that Congress, by incorporating the agreement in the 1880
Act, thereby ratified it along with the Indians' understanding of it. Petitioners further contend that whether
or not Congress intended to obligate the Government to
account for the Executive Order lands, they knew of the
Indians' understanding so that "the understanding of the
Indians having been established," their understanding entitles them to recover. Finally they argue that the Executive Order, unlike the one in issue in Sioux Tribe of Indians v. United States, 316 U. S. 317, conveyed a compensable interest to these Indians. The Government
counters that the President had no power to give a compensable interest to the Indians to lands lying outside the
true 1868 treaty boundaries; that if the-President intended

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

to make available lands outside the true boundary it was
only to give a transitory, possessory, and not a compensable, interest; that his intent was, in fact, only to secure
the Indians in their possession of the White River Valley,
but no more, on the mistaken assumption that the White
River Valley had been cut off from the reservation by the
Miller survey; that the 1880 Act, neither by its terms, its
legislative history, nor its administrative interpretation,
suggests that Congress intended to ratify or expand the
Executive Order or to compensate the Indians for the
Executive Order lands; that the Indians did not have a
contrary understanding; that in the face of such clear legislative language and intent, a contrary understanding of
the Indians, even if established, could not justify a holding
that the Indians obtained a compensable interest.
It is conceded that the petitioners have either been, or
are currently pressing litigation in the Court of Claims
by which they seek to be, compensated for the White
River Valley lands, and, in fact, for all of the land which
was contained in the true boundaries of the 1868 reservation. The additional claim, insofar as it rests on the
Executive Order of 1875, cannot be sustained. For the
President had no authority to convey to the petitioners a
compensable interest in the lands described in the order
lying north of the true 1868 boundary. Sioux Tribe of
Indians v. United States, supra.' Nor is there any indi-

cation in the findings that the President intended to convey more than a transitory, possessory interest by the 1875
Order. That order made the Indians no more than tenants at the will of the Government on that part of the land
outside the true treaty reservation. Id. at 331. Moreover, the Court of C4airns' findings of fact, as emphasized
Cf. Executive Order of August 17, 1876, which interpreted a treaty
so as to "set apart [certain land] as a part of the Ute Indian Reservation, in accordance with the first article of an agreement made with
said Indians and ratified by Congress . . . ." 1 Kappler, supra,834.
2

UTE INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
169

Opinion of the Court.

by the special concurring opinion, indicate that the Executive Order was promulgated under the mistaken belief
that its issuance was necessary in order to give the Indians
the use of the White River Valley lands intended to be
granted to them by the 1868 treaty and from which they.
might otherwise have been excluded by the Miller survey.
These findings do not indicate that the Commissioner,
the Secretary, or the President intended the order to
make available the lands it in fact described lying north
of the true treaty boundary. The order was designed
only to resolve the misunderstanding created by Miller
about the White River Valley lands.3 The fullest possible purpose of the Executive Order has actually been
carried out. For the Indians' enjoyment, of the White
River lands was protected during their stay on the reservation, and the lands have either already been paid for,
or are-the subject of pending litigation in the' Court of
Claims whereby the Indians seek payment for them. It
is with these things in mind that we must consider petitioners' contention. that they have a right to recover
compensation because of the 1880 Act.
There is not one word inthat Act showing a congressional purpose to convey the Executive Order lands, or any
other lands, to the Indians. On the contrary, the Act
embodied a transaction whereby the Indians were the
transferors and conveyed lands to the Government. For
the value of lands so conveyed, and for no other, the Government was to make an account to the Indians after
certain deductions had been made.
3

The Court of Claims did not find this as an ultimate fact. But
the correspondence which plainly shows it was incorporated in the findings. This Court has said with reference to findings of the Court of
Claims that the "absence of the finding of an ultimate fact does not
require a reversal of the judgment if the circumstantial facts as found
are such that the ultimate fact follows from them as a necessary
inference." United States v. Wells, 283 U. S. 102. 120.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Nor is it possible to deduce from the 1880 Act a congressional purpose to transform the Executive Order into
a conveyance of something more than a mere temporary
and cancellable possessory right to the Indians. Neither
the language of the 1880 Act, its legislative history, nor
the circumstances which brought it about, justify the
claim that Congress intended to expand the Executive
Order into a transfer of a compensable interest in lands
not included in the original treaty reservation. The Act
was an aftermath of the "Meeker massacre." With the
inassacre in mind, Congress decided to remove the Indians
from the Colorado reservation as part of the punishment
meted out for this tragedy.' The very first section of the
1880 Act prohibited any payments at all to the Indians
until the Indians involved had surrendered, been apprehended, or until the President had proof that they were
dead or outside the United States. Compensation for the
families of the massacre victims was to be deducted from
the land sale proceeds payable to the Indians. We cannot
find from this background a congressional purpose to make
a gift to the Indians of the Executive Order lands for which
compensation is here sought. The only lands for which
Congress agreed in 1880 to compensate the Indians were
those "the title to which" the Indians then "released
and conveyed to the United States." They could only release and convey the lands that belonged to them, and only
the lands given to them by the original 1868 treaty belonged to them. It was for compensation for such lands
only that Congress, in 1938, authorized this action to be
maintained. Under all these circumstances, the fact that
the 1880 Act required the chiefs and headmen to procure
the consent of their people to the cession of "the present
Ute Reservation" is not sufficient to attribute to Congress
'See S. 772 and S. Res. 51, 10 Cong. Rec. pt. 1 (1879) 30, 77; H. R.
142, 10 Cong. Rec. 44; H. R. 2420, 10 Cong. Rec. 17; H. R. 154,
10 Cong. Rec. 113; H. R. 5092, 10 Cong. Rec. pt. 2 (1880) 1538.

UTE INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
169

Opinion of the Court.

a purpose to treat as a part of that reservation lands which

had. never been legally conveyed to the Indians and which
had only been made available to them by the Executive
Order for the sole purpose of making them secure in their
possession of the White River Valley.
It is said, however, that the Indians understood in 1880
that they owned the Executive Order lands which lay
north of the White River Valley; that they understood
their "present Ute Reservation" to include them; that
they understood that Congress undertook by the 1880 Act
to sell the lands for their benefit; and that Congress was
aware of this understanding. The majority opinion.of the
Court of Claims stated that "in'all probability" this was
true. The writer of the concurring opinion thought differently. But even if the Indians had believed that they
had a compensable interest in the Executive Order lands,
this fact would not necessarily have given it to them.
Certainly the absence of presidential authority to give
them a compensable title could not be supplied by the
Indians' understanding that the President had such
authority. The Sioux Indians may also have thought th
President had authority to convey title to them; but the
reasons on which our decision in the Sioux case, 8upra,
rested do not indicate that our holding depended in any
way upon the understanding of the Indians. Nor can this
alleged understanding be imputed to Congress in the face
of plain language and a rather full legislative history indi-i
cating that the 1880 Act neither conveyed nor ratified
conveyance of these lands. While it has long been
the rule that a treaty with Indians is to be construed so
as to carry out the Government's obligations in accordance.
with, the fair understanding of the Indians, we cannot,
under the guise of interpretation, create presidential
authority where there was none,. nor rewrite congressional
acts so as to make them mean something they obviously
were not intended to mean. Choctaw Nation v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

States, 318 U. S. 423, 431-432. We cannot, under any
acceptable rule of interpretation, hold that the Indians
owned the lands merely because they thought so. Solicitous as the Government is to carry out its promises to
the Indians in good faith, we are satisfied from this record
that the Government has performed all that it promised.
As we have pointed out, it seems obvious to us from the
findings of the Court of Claims that the Executive Order
was only intended to secure for these Indians' ancestors
possession of the White River Valley lands conveyed to
them by the original 1868 treaty, and which was jeopardized by the Miller survey.5 In fact, the President had no
authority to convey a compensable interest in these or
other lands to the Utes. Fairly to carry out the 1868
treaty was the order's aim. The 1880 Act, we believe, did
not enlarge upon the limited purpose of the Executive
Order. To compensate these Indians for lands not intended to be conveyed by the 1868 treaty, the Executive
Order, nor the 1880 Act, would be to pay them for lands
which neither they nor their ancestors-ever owned and to
which they had no claim in equity or justice, so far as the
transactions here at issue are concerned. No rule of
construction justifies such a result.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting.

The United States, in my opinion, is morally and legally
obligated to pay for the land in issue in this case. The
Executive Order of 1375 by its terms set aside certain land
up to the "first standard parallel north" for the use of the
Ute Indians "as an addition to the present reservation."
That order alone, of course, could convey no compensable
interest to the Indians under the rule of Sioux Tribe v.
United States, 316 U. S. 317. But events subsequent to
See p. 177, supra.

UTE INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
169

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

the issuance of the Executive Order in this case make inapplicable the principle of the Sioux case. In 1880 the
United States and the Ute chiefs and headmen entered
into an agreement whereby the latter promised "to.use
their best endeavors with their people to procure their
consent to cede to the United States all the territory
of the present Ute Reservation in Colorado." Congress
thereupon passed the Act of June 15, 1880, which recited
in its preamble that the chiefs and headmen had "submitted to the Secretary of the Interior an agreement for the
sale to the United States of their present reservation in
the State of Colorado." The Act then incorporated the
agreement previously made and provided that all unallotted lands should be deemed to be released and conveyed
to the United States.
It seems clear to me that by 1880 the term "present reservation" included the land which the Executive Order of
1875 stated had been set aside as an addition to the then
present reservation. And when the 1880 agreement and
the 1880 Act referred to "present reservation" they must
have included that additional land. Adding this informal
acknowledgment by Congress of the expanded reservation
to the occupation of the land .by the Indians and their
understanding that it belonged to the reservation, a compensable interest becomes evident. It is immaterial that
there were no formal documents conveying a fee simple
interest to the Indians; it is likewise irrelevant that there
was no formal acknowledgment of the Indian title.
Spalding v. Chandler,160 U. S. 394; UnitedStates v. Alcea
Band of Tillamooks, 329 U. S. 40. It is enough that the
Indians had the right to possess and occupy the land and
that the Indians fairly understood that to be the case. An
acknowledgment by Congress, however informal, then
adds a legal obligation to the moral duty of the United
States to pay for the land involved. Such is the situation
here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

The Court indicates, however, that the Executive Order
of 1875 does not mean what it says. It clearly set apart
for the use of the Indians "as an addition to the present
reservation" all the described land up to the "first standard parallel north." But it is now suggested that those
responsible for the promulgation of that order did not
really intend to set aside all the land up to the "first standard parallel north," despite the explicit language used. It
is said, rather, that the order actually was designed to
affect only the White River Valley lands-lands which are
some nine miles south of the "first standard parallel north."
That interpretation of the intent of the framers of the
order would make the northern boundary of the Executive
Order land coterminous with the northern boundary of the
true treaty reservation.
But there is nothing in the findings of the Court of
Claims to justify such an interpretation. To disregard
the plain words of the order by subtracting a nine-mile
strip from a clearly worded description requires definite
findings to that effect which are supported by the record.
It is not our function, of course, to supply those findings
ourselves. Nor can we infer them from the decision of
the Court of Claims. That court alone has the power and
the duty to make the necessary findings on material issues.
53 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C. ยง 288; United States v. Causby,
328 U. S. 256, 267-268. If it is material that the framirs
of the Executive Order intended to set aside less land than
that described in the order, the case should be remanded
to the Court of Claims so that it can make the necessary
findings in this respect.
MR. JUsTICE FRANKFURTER

join in this dissent.

and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

