OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

330 U. S.

that Congress . . .was willing to foster an opportunity
for juggling so facile and so obvious." Cardozo, J., in
Woolford Realty Co. v. Rose, 286 U. S.319, 329-30.
Practically speaking, the interpretation given by the
Court to § 6 serves to immunize unions, especially the
more alert and powerful, as well as corporations involved
in labor disputes, from Sherman Law liability. To insist
that such is not the result intended by the Court is to deny
the practical consequences of the Court's ruling. For
those entrusted with the enforcement of the Sherman Law
there may be found in the opinion words of promise to the
ear, but the decision breaks the promise to the hope.
In our view the judgments below should be affirmed.

JOSEPH, COMPTROLLER, ET AL. V. CARTER &
WEEKES STEVEDORING CO.
NO.

29.

CERTIORARI

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

NEW

YORK.*

Argued March 1, 1946.-Reargued November 12, 1946.-Decided
March 10, 1947.
1. New York City levied an excise tax on the gross receipts of a
stevedoring corporation engaged wholly within the territorial limits
of the City in loading and unloading vessels moving in interstate
and foreign commerce. Held: Such a tax is invalid, since it would
burden interstate and foreign commerce in violation of the Commerce Clause of the Constitution. Pp. 427,433-434.
.2. Loading and unloading are essential parts of transportation itself.
Therefore, stevedoring is essentially a part of interstate and foreign
commerce and cannot be separated therefrom for purposes of local
taxation. Pp. 427, 433.
3. Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. State Tax Comm'n, 302 U. S. 90,
reaffirmed. P. 433.
*Together with No. 30, Joseph, Comptroller, et a. v. John T.
Clark & Son, also on certiorari to the same Court.

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

423

Opinion of the Court.

4. Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250;
Pacific Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 167; McGoldrick v.
White Coal Mining Co,, 309 U. S. 33; Department of
v. Wood Preserving Corp., 313 U. S. 62, distinguished.
433.
294 N. Y. 906, 908,63 N. E. 2d 112, affirmed.

Southern
BerwindTreasury
Pp. 430-

The Comptroller of the City of New York determined
that certain stevedoring companies were liable for taxes
on their gross receipts under the general business tax laws
of New York City. On review, the Comptroller's determinations were annulled by the Supreme Court of New
York, Appellate Division. 269 App. Div. 685, 54 N. Y. S.
2d 380, 383. The Nem7 York Court of Appeals affirmed.
294 N. Y. 906, 908, 63 N. E. 2d 112. This Court granted
certiorari. 326 U. S. 713. Affirmed, p. 434.
Isaac C. Donner argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the brief were John J. Bennett and Harry Katz.
Samuel M. Lane argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Roger S. Baldwin.
Smith Troy, Attorney General, filed a brief on behalf
of the State of Washington, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.
John Ambler, Ben C. Grosecup and Albert E. Stephan
filed a brief for the Puget Sound Stevedoring Company,
acting on behalf of the Association of Washington Stevedores, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

These two writs of certiorxari bring before this Court
contentions in regard to the application to the respective
respondents, Carter & Weekes Stevedoring Company and
John T. Clark & Son, of New York City, of the general

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

business tax laws covering, when both cases axe considered,
the years 1937 to 1941, ificlusive.' The character of the
taxes in issue will appear from a section, set out below,
of a local law imposing the tax for 1939 and 1940.2 The
respective taxpayers are liable also for the general income
and ad valorem taxes of the State and City of New York.
Both respondents are corporations engaged in the business
of general stevedoring. For these cases, the business of
respondents may be considered as consisting only of taking
freight from a convenient place on the pier or lighter
wholly within the territorial limits of New York City and
'The taxes in question were levied by the City of New York by
a series of local laws, No. 22 of 1937, No. 20 of 1938, No. 103 of 1939,
No. 78 of 1940, No. 47 of 1941. The local laws were passed pursuant to authorization by the State of New York. See Laws of
New York 1940,. Ch. 245. There is no dispute as to the general
validity of the local laws. See McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal
Mining Co., 309 U. S. 33, and New York Rapid Transit Corp. v. City
of New York, 303 U. S. 573. These cases involved other phases of
these local laws.
Certiorari granted, 326 U. S. 713; argued March 1, 1946; restored'
to the docket for reargument April 22, 1946.
2 Local Laws of the City of New York (1940), No. 78:
"§ R41-2.0. Imposition of tax. a. For the privilege of carrying on or exercising for gain or profit' within the city any trader
business, profession, vocation or commercial activity other than a
financial business, or of making sales to persons within such city,
.for each of the periods of one year, or any part thereof, beginning
on July first of the years nineteen hundred thirty-nine and nineteen'
hundred forty, every person shall pay an excise tax which shall be
equal to one-tenth of one percentum upon all receipts received in
and/or allocable to the city from such profession, vocation, trade,
business or commercial activity exercised or carried on by him during
the calendar year in which such period shall commence,.
No problem of allocation or apportionment is involved. See § b.
No question is raised by petitioner that any part of the tax is allocable
to receipts properly attributable to doing business in New York
City,, if all of the receipts are not subject to the local act.
§ R41-3.0.

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

Opinion of the Court.

storing it properly for safety and for handling in or on
the outgoing vessel alongside, or of similarly unloading
a vessel on its arrival. The vessels moved in interstate
or foreign commerce, without a call at any other port of
New York. We do not find it necessary to consider separately interstate and foreign commerce. The Commerce
Clause covers both.
Through statutory proceedings unnecessary to particularize, the Comptroller of the City of New York determined that the respondents were liable for percentage
taxes upon the entire gross receipts from the above activities for the years in question under the provisions of the
respective local laws to which reference has been made.
Review of these determinations was had by respondents in
the Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division.
The determinations of the Comptroller were annulled on
the authority of Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. Tax
Commission, 302 U. S.90. 269 App. Div. 685, 54 N. Y. S.
2d 380, 383. These orders were affirmed by the Court of
Appeals, 294 N. Y. 906, 908, 63 N. E. 2d 112, and remittiturs issued stating that the Court of Appeals affirmed on
the ground that the local laws as applied in these cases
were in violation of Article I, § 8, Clause 3, of the Constitution of the United States.' Writs of certiorari to this
Court were sought and granted on the issue of whether or
not this tax on these respondents constituted an unconstitutional burden on commerce.
Petitioners recognize the force of the Puget Sound case
as a precedent. Their argument is that subsequent holdings of this Court have indicated that the reasons which
underlay the decision are no longer controlling in judicial
examination of the constitutionality of state taxation of
3,"The Congress shall have Power . . .To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes; . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

the gross proceeds derived from commerce, subject to federal regulation. They cite, among others, these later decisions: Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303
U. S. 250; Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S.
167; McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33;
Department of Treasury v. Wood Preserving Corp., 313
U. S. 62.
In the Puget Sound case a state tax on gross receipts,
indistinguishable from that laid by New York City in this
case, was held invalid as applied to stevedoring activities
exactly like those with which we are here concerned. The
Puget Sound opinion pointed out, p. 92 et seq., that transportation by water is impossible without loading and unloading. Those incidents to transportation occupy the
same relation to that commerce whether performed by the
crew or by stevedore, contracting independently to handle
the cargo. The movement of cargo off and on the shipis
substantially a continuation of the transportation.
Cf.
Baltimore & 0. S. W. R. Co. v. Burtch, 263 U. S. 540.
It is trite to repeat that the want of power in the confederation to regulate commerce was a principal reason
for the adoption of the Constitution. The Commerce
Clause bears no limitation of power upon its face and,
when the Congress acts under it, interpretation has suggested none, except such as may be prescribed by the
Constitution. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,196; United
States v; CaroleneProducts Co., 304 U. S. 144, 147; North
American Co. v. S.E. C., 327 U. S. 686, 704. On the other
hand, the Constitution, by words, places no limitation
upon a. state's power to tax the things or activities or
persons within its boundaries. What limitations there
are spring from applications t'state tax situations of general clauses of the Constitut6n. E. g., Art. I, § 10, Cl.
2 and 3; New York Indians,5 Wall. 761; Board of County
Commissionersv. United States, 308 U. S. 343; Bell's Gap
R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Lawrence v.

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

Opinion of the Court.

State Tax Commission, 286 U. S. 276, 284; Henderson
Bridge Co. v. Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592, 614-15; New

York Rapid Transit Corp. v. City of New York, 303 U. S.
573, 581-82. From the Commerce Clause itself, there
comes, also, an abridgment of the state's power to tax
within its territorial limits.

This has arisen from long-

continued judicial interpretation that, without congres-

sional action, the words themselves of the Commerce
Clause forbid undue interferences by the states with interstate commerce ' and that this rule applies in full force to
an unapportioned I tax on the gross proceeds from interstate business,' where the taxes were not in lieu of ad
valorem taxes on property.!

We do not think that a tax on gross income from stevedoring, obviously a ."continuation of the transportation,"
is a tax apportioned to income derived from activities

within the taxing state. The transportation in commerce, at the least, begins with loading and ends with
unloading.

Loading and unloading has effect on trans-

4Southern
Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761, 767-69, and cases
cited; Morgan v. Virginia, 328 U. S. 373, 379, and cases cited, n. 17;
Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249; Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board
of Equalization,329 U. S. 69, 75.
5 Compare Maine v. Grand Trunk R. Co., 142 U. S. 217; Oklahoma
v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298, 301; Underwood Typewriter Co.
v. Chamberlain,254 U. S. 113; Hans Rees"Sons v. North Carolina,283
U. S. 123; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Minnesota, 309 U. S. 157.
0
Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Ratterman v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411, 428; Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127
U. S. 640; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472;
Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.
.217; Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo& Co., 223 U. S. 298, 300; Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 400; Crew Levick Co. Y. Pennsylvania, 245
U. S. 292, 295; Fisher'sBlend Station v. Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 650,
655; Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 312; Freeman v. Hewit,
supra.
7Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 1551U. S. 688, 698;
United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S.335, 346-48.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

portation outside the taxing state because those activities
are not only preliminary to but are an essential part of
the safety and convenience of the transportation itself.
When we come to weigh the burden or interference of
this tax on the gross receipts from interstate commerce,
the purposes of that portion of the Commerce Clausethe freeing of business from unneighborly regulations
that inhibit the intercourse which supplies reciprocal
wants by commerce -is a significant factor for consideration. An interpretation of the text to leave the states
free to tax commerce until Congress intervened would have
permitted intolerable discriminations. Nippert v. City
of Richmond, 327 U. S. 416, and cases collected in notes
13, 14, 15 and 16. Nevertheless, a proper regard for the
authority of the states and their right to require interstate commerce to contribute by.taxes to the support of
the state governments which make their interstate coinmerce possible, has led Congress, over a long period, to
leave intact the judicial rulings, referred to above, that apportioned, non-discriminatory gross receipt taxes or those
fairly levied in lieu of property taxes conformed to the
requirements of the Commerce Clause. As the power
lies in Congress under the Clause to make any desired
adjustment in the taxation area, its acquiescence in our
former rulings on state taxation indicates its agreement
with the adjustments of the competing interests of commerce and necessary state revenues." There is another
reason that may be the basis for the acceptance, almost
8 Federalist 7, 22, 42; Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511,
523.
9 See Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland R. Co., 242 U. S.
311, 326; United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420; Whitfield v. Ohio, 297
U. S. 431; Kentucky Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co.,
299 U. S. 334; PrudentialIns. Co. Y. Benjamin, 328 U. S. 408, 430;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761, 769; Freemanv. Hewit,
329 U. S. 249, 253.

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

Opinion of the Court.

complete, by Congress of the judicial interpretations in
this field. This is that a wide latitude exists for permissible state taxation. This term, in an effort to show that
the reach of the Commerce Clause did not destroy the
state's power to make commerce pay its way, we elaborated the fact that taxes on the commerce itself was not
the sole source of state revenue from that commerce.
Freeman v. Hewit, supra, p. 254; see also Adams Mfg.
Co. v. Storen, supra,310.
A power in a state to tax interstate commerce or its gross
proceeds, unhampered by the Commerce Clause, would
permit a multiple burden upon that commerce. This
has been noted as ground for their invalidation. Western
Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250, 255. The selection
of an intrastate incident as the taxable event actually
carries a similar threat to the commerce but, where the
taxable event is considered sufficiently disjoined from the
0
commerce, it is thought to be a permissible state levy.
This result generally is reached because the local incident
selected is one that is essentially local and is not repeated
in each taxing unit. In the present case, the threat of a
multiple burden, except in the few instances in the record
of interstate, in distinction to foreign, commerce, is absent.
The multiple burden on interstate transportation from
taxation of the gross receipts from stevedoring arises from
the possibility of a similar tax for unloading. The actual
effect. on the cost of carrying on the commerce does
not differ from that imposed by any other tax exaction--ad valorem, net income or excise. Cf. Western Live
Stock v. Bureau, supra, 254. We need consider only
whether or not the loading and unloading is distinct
enough from the commerce to permit the tax on the
gross.
1O Western Live Stock v. Bureau, supra, 258-260; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 167, 176;McGoldrick v. Berwind-White
Co., 309 U. S. 33, 48; Dept..of Treasury v. Wood Corp., 313 U. S. 62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

On precedent, the Puget Sound case is controlling. It
was promptly and recently cited with approval." It appears in Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen " in support of the
possible double tax argument against levies on interstate
commerce. In Western Live Stock v. Bureau, supra,258,
it was adverted to as a case for comparison with a ruling
that "preparing, printing and publishing magazine advertising is peculiarly local and distinct from its circulation
whether or not that circulation be interstate commerce."
The case was not included in the Court's opinion in Gwin,
White & Prince, Inc. v. Henneford,18 where a state gross
receipts tax on income 'from marketing fruit interstate
was invalidated under the Commerce Clause, or in McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co.,14 though -relied upon in
the concurring opinion in the first at p. 442 and the dissent
in the second at p. 62. Upon examination this history
gives an impression that there has been a doubt as to the
continued vitality of Puget Sound. We come now fice
to face with the problem of overruling or apjroving the
case.
Since Puget Sound there has been full consideration of
how far a state may go in taxing intrastate incidents
closely related in time and movement to the interstate
commerce. The cases that lend strongest support to petitioners' argument for overruling the Puget Sound decision have been referred to above. We comment further
upon .them. The 2%7 excise tax levied by New Mexico
on the gross receipts of publishers from advertising,
upheld in Western Live Stock, was found to be an exaction
1 Coverdale v. Pipe Line Co., 303 U. S. 604, 609; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 167, 178; Freeman v. Hewit, supra, p.
257.
304 U. S. 307, 312.
18 305 U. S. 434.
14 309 U. S. 33.
12

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

Opinion of the Court.

for carrying on a local business. 5 The Gallagher case
turns expressly on our conclusion that a use tax is validly
levied on an intrastate event, "separate and apart from
interstate commerce," p. 176, and the Wood Preserving
case A reached a similar result by reason of the fact that

the taxpayer sold and delivered its ties intrastate before
transportation began, 313 U. S. at 67. This is likewise
true of American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, as
explained in the Storen case." When we examine the
15 303 U. S. at 257.
"All the events upon which the tax is conditioned-the preparation,
printing and publication of the advertising matter, and the receipt
of the sums paid for it-occur in New Mexico and not elsewhere."
P. 260. "So far as the advertising rates reflect a value attributable
to the maintenance of a circulation of the magazine interstate, we
think the burden on the interstate business is too remote and too
attenuated to call for a rigidly logical application of the doctrine
that gross receipts from interstate commerce may not be made the
measure of a tax. . . . Practical rather than logical distinctions
must be sought." P. 259.
The alternate ground, p. 260, that such a local tax cannot be levied
elsewhere is inapposite in such a foreign commerce situation as this.
16 See Harvester Co. v. Dept. of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340, 348.
17 304 U. S. at 312-13:
"The state court and the appellees rely strongly upon American
Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, as supporting the tax on appellant's total gross receipts derived from commerce with citizens of
the State and those of other States or foreign countries. But that
case dealt with a municipal license fee for pursuing the occupation
of a manufacturer in St. Louis. The exaction *as not an excise laid
upon the taxpayer's sales or upon the income derived from sales. The
tax on the privilege for the ensuing year was measured by a percentage
of the past year's sales. The taxpayer had during the preceding
year removed some of the goods manufactured to a warehouse in
another State and, upon sale, delivered them from the warehouse.
It contended that the city was without power to include these sales
in the measure of the tax for the coming year. The court held,
however, tha he tax was upon the privilege of manufacturing within
the State and i was permissible to measure the tax by the sales price

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Berwind-White tax on the purchasers of tangible personal
property for consumption, there is the same reliance upon
the local character of the sale, pp. 43, 47, 49, 58.18 We
there said, p. 48:
"Certain types of tax may, if permitted at all, so
readily be made the instrument of impeding or destroying interstate commerce as plainly to call for
their condemnation as forbidden regulations. Such
are the taxes already noted which are aimed at or
discriminate against the commerce or impose a levy
for the privilege of doing it, or tax interstate transportation or communication or their gross earnings,
or levy an exaction on merchandise in the course 'of
its interstate journey."
of the goods produced rather than by their value at the date of
manufacture. If the tax there under consideration had been a sales
tax the city could not have measured it by sales consummated in
another State."
Cf. Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249,252.
18 309 U. S. at 49: "Its only relation to the commerce arises from the
fact that immediately preceding transfer of possession to the purchaser within the state, which is the taxable event regardless of the
time and place of passing title, the merchandise has been transported
in interstate commerce and brought to its journey's end. Such a tax
has no different effect upon interstate commerce than a tax on the
'use' of property which has just been moved in interstate commerce,
sustained in Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson, 292 U. S. 86; Henneford
v. Silas Mason Co., supra; Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co. v. Gallagher,
306 U. S. 62; Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 167, or
the tax on storage or withdrawal for use by the consignee of gasoline,
similarly sustained in Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472;
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249; Edelman v.
Boeing Air Transport, 289 U. S. 249, or the familiar property tax
on goods by the state of destination at the conclusion of their interstate journey. Brown v. Houston, supra; American Steel & Wire
Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500."

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

433

Opinion of the Court.

Though all of these cases were closely related to transportation in commerce both in time and movement, it
will be noted that in each there can be distinguished a
definite separation between the taxable event and the
commerce itself. We have no reason to doubt the soundness of their conclusions.
Stevedoring is more a part of the commerce than any of
the instances to which reference has just been made. Although state laws do not discriminate against interstate
commerce or in actuality or by possibility subject it to the
cumulative burden of multiple levies, those laws may be
unconstitutional because they burden or interfere with
commerce. See Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S.
761, 767. Stevedoring, we conclude, is essentially a part
of the commerce itself and therefore a tax upon its gross
receipts or upon the privilege of conducting the business
of stevedoring for interstate and foreign commerce,
measured by those gross receipts, is invalid. We reaffirm
the rule of Puget Sound Stevedoring Company. "What
makes the tax invalid is the fact that there is interference
by a State with the freedom of interstate commerce."
Freemanv. Hewit, supra, p. 256. Such a rule may in practice prohibit a tax that adds no more to the cost of commerce than a permissible use or sales tax. What lifts the
rule from formalism is that it is a recognition of the effects
of state legislation and its actual or probable consequences.
Not only does it follow a line of precedents outlawing taxes
on the commerce itself but it has reason to support it in
the likelihood that such legislation will flourish more
luxuriantly where the most revenue will come from foreign
or interstate commerce. Thus in port cities and transportation or handling centers, without discrimination
against out-of-state as compared with local business,
larger proportions of necessary revenue could be obtained
from the flow of commerce. The avoidance of such a local

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

toll on the passage of commerce through a locality was one
of the reasons for the adoption of the Commerce Clause.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissents.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs, dissenting in part.
First. I think the tax is valid insofar as it reaches the
gross receipts from loading and unloading vessels engaged
in interstate commerce.
Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. Tax Commission, 302
U. S. 90, makes clear that respondents' activities in loading
and unloading the vessels are interstate commerce. That
case followed a long line of decisions' when it held in 1937
that a State could not tax the privilege of engaging in interstate or foreign commerce by exacting a percentagt of
the gross receipts.
Those cases, like the present one, involved no exaction
by the State of a license to engage in interstate commerce
on the payment of a flat license tax or otherwise. Cf.
Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256
U. S. 642; Cooney v. Mountain States Tel. Co., 294 U. S.
384; Murdock v. Pennsylvania,319 U. S. 105, 114. Nor
did they, any more than the present case, concern legislation which expressed hostility to interstate commerce by
discriminating against it. Cf. Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311
U. S. 454; Nippert v. City of Richmond, 327 U. S. 416.
Although all or like business of a local nature was subject
I Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326;
Ratterman v. Western Union Tel. Co., 127 U. S. 411; Western Union

Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472; Galveston, Harrisburg& S. A. Ry.
Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Meyer'v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223
U. S. 298.

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

DouGLAs, J., dissenting in part.

to the same. tax, the interstate business was granted immunity. The theory, as expressed in Philadelphia &
Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 326, 336, was
that taxation was one form of regulation and a tax on the
gross receipts from interstate transportation would be "a
regulation of the commerce, a restriction upon it, a burden
upon it. Clearly this could not be done by the state without interfering with the power of Congress."
The tax in that case was a tax on the gross receipts from
fares and freight for the transportation of persons and
goods in interstate and foreign commerce. It was unapportioned. As we shall see, the holding in the Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. case has not been impaired. But
the principle it annofinced-that a tax on the gross receipts was forbidden because it was a regulation of interstate or foreign commerce-was not given full scope. For
soon gross receipts taxes on businesses engaged in interstate commerce (including transportation or communication) were sustained where they were not discriminatory
and where they were fairly apportioned to the commerce
carried on in the taxing state.2 Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry.
Co., 142 U. S. 217. Their validity was established
whether they were employed as a measure of the value
of a local franchise (Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., supra;
Wisconsin & M. Ry. Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379) or were
used in lieu of all other property taxes to measure the
value of the property in the State. United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; Cudahy Packing
Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450; Illinois Central R. Co. v.
Minnesota,309 U. S. 157.
The distinction between an apportioned gross receipts
tax and a tax on all the gross receipts of an interstate busi2 In Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, the payment of a
percentage of gross receipts was upheld as a condition of the corporate

franchise.

OCT9QBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

ness, such as was involved in Philadelphia & Southern
S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, pp. 335-336, was explained in Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303
U. S. 250, 256, which was decided in 1938. The Court
stated that the latter type of tax could be imposed or
added to "with equal right by every state which the commerce touches, merely because interstate commerce is
being done, so that without the protection of the commerce clause it would bear cumulative burdens not imposed on local commerce ....

The multiplication of

state taxes measured by the gross receipts from interstate
transactions would spell the destruction of interstate commerce and renew the barriers to interstate trade which it
was the object of the commerce clause to remove." This
explanation of the vice of the unapportioned gross receipts
tax had been earlier suggested in Case of the State Freight
Tax, 15 Wall. 232, 280, and has been accepted by our decisions since the Western Live Stock case. Adams Mfg. Co.
v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 311; Gwin, White & Prince,Inc. v.
Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 438-440; McGoldrick v.Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33, 45-46. In both Adams
Mfg. Co. v. Storen, supra, and Gwin, White & Prince,
Inc. v. Henneford, supra, unapportioned gross receipts
taxes as applied to the receipts from interstate sales were
held invalid. It was said that the vice of such a tax was
that interstate commerce would be subjected "to the risk
of a double tax burden to which intrastate commerce is
not exposed .

. ."

Adams Mfg: Co. v. Storen, supra,

p. 311. Or as stated in Gwin, White & Prince, Inc. v.
Henneford, supra,p. 439:
"Here the tax, measured by the entire volume of the
interstate commerce in which appellant participates,
is not apportioned to its activities within the state.
If Washington is free to exact such a tax, other states
to which the commerce extends may, with equal right,

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

lay a tax similarly measured for the privilege of conducting within their respective territorial limits the
activities there which contribute to the service. The
present tax, though nominally local, thus in its practical operation discriminates against interstate commerce, since it imposes upon it. merely because interstate commerce is being done, the risk of a multipleburden to which local commerce is not exposed."
As was later stated in Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,
306 U. S. 167, 175, as respects taxes on gross receipts from
interstate transactions or interstate transportation, "The
measurement of a tax by gross receipts where it cannot
result in a multiplication of the levies it upheld."
Under that view the Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co.
case would be decided one way and the Puget Sound
Stevedoring Co. case the other. As we have noted, the
tax in the Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. case was a
gross receipts tax on fares and freight for the transportation of persons and goods in interstate and foreign commerce. It was unapportioned. And there was the risk
of multiple taxation to which local transportation, though
also taxed, was not subjected. The same was true of
Ratterman v. Western Union Tel. Co., 127 U. S. 411;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472;
and Meyer v. Wells, Fargo& Co., 223 U. S. 298.
But in the Puget Sound case any risk of multiple taxation was absent. The same is true of the present case.
For in each the activity of loading and unloading was
confined exclusively to the State that imposed the tax.
No other State could tax the same activity.3 The tax
3 The Court suggests that the fact that similar stevedoring activity
will be required at the destination creates a risk of multiple taxation,
since the State of destination would be as free to tax the unloading as
New York to tax the loading. This is only multiple in the s.nse that
each State taxes what occurs within its borders; the two taxes would

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

therefore is in its application nothing more than a
gross receipts tax apportioned to reach only income derived from activities within the taxing State. The gross
receipts reflect values attributable to the business or property wholly within the taxing state. Under the test of
our recent decisions (Western Live Stock v. Bureau of
Revenue, supra; Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, supra; Gwin,
White & Prince,Inc. v. Henneford,supra), the tax would
therefore seem to be unobjectionable.
It is true, however, that taxes on gross receipts of transportation companies and other interstate enterprises were
held invalid in cases prior to the Puget Sound case, even
though all of the activities were confined to the taxir~g
state and could not be taxed by any other state. Galveston, Harrisburg & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.
217; New Jersey Bell Tel. Co. v. State Board, 280 U. S.
338. Cf. Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230. The explanation given in the Galveston case was that a tax on the
gross receipts was a regulation of commerce, as the Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. case held. It distinguished
Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., supra, and the other
apportionment cases on the ground that they involved
taxes on property, the gross receipts being taken as the
measure of the value of the property. The Court said
(210 U. S., p. 227):
"It appears sufficiently, perhaps from what has oeen
said, that we are to look for a practical rather than
a logical or philosophical distinction. The State
must be allowed to tax the property and to tax it
at its actual value as a going concern. On the other
hand the State cannot tax the interstate business.
not be on the same activity. It is no more relevant that stevedoring
is involved in both cases, than is the fact that two States may impose
property taxes on terminals or trackage within their respective
borders.

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

The two necessities hardly admit of an absolute logical reconciliation. Yet the distinction is not without sense. When a legislature is trying simply to
value property, it is less likely to attempt to or effect
injurious regulation than when it is aiming directly
at the receipts from interstate commerce. A practical line can be drawn by taking the whole scheme
of taxation into account. That must be done by
this court as best it can. Neither the state- courts
nor the legislatures, by giving the tax a particular
name or by the use of some form of words, can take
away our duty to consider its nature, and effect.' If.
it bears upon commerce among the States so directly
as to amount to a regulation in a relatively immediate
way, it will not be saved by name or form."
The Galveston case, like the Philadelphia& Southern
S. S. Co. case, involved a tax applicable to transportation
companies alone.' Whatever may be said for the propo4Moreover, the tax in the Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. case
was restricted not only to transportation companies but also to receipts from transportation. Those facts were emphasized by Mr.
Justice Bradley (122 U. S. pp. 344-345): "Can the tax in this case be
regarded as an income tax? and, if it can, does that make any difference as to its constitutionality? We do not think that it can properly
be regarded as an income tax. It is not a general tax on the incomes
of all the inhabitants of the state; but a special tax on transportation
companies. Conceding, however, that an income tax may be imposed
on certain classes of the community, distinguished by the character
of their occupations; this is not an income tax on the class to which
it refers; but a tax on their receipts for transportation only. Many
of the companies included in it may, and undoubtedly do, have incomes from other sources, such as rents of houses, wharves, stores,
and water-power, and interest on moneyed investments. As a tax
on transportation, we have already seen from the quotations from
the State Freight Tax Case that it cannot be supported where that
transportation is an ingredient of interstate or foreign commerce,
even though the law imposing the tax be expressed in .such general

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

sition that a gross receipts tax, applicable only to transportation companies, may readily become the instrument
for impeding or destroying interstate commerce, that consideration has no relevancy here. For in the present case,
as in the Puget Sound case, all businesses are taxed alike.
There is equality throughout; and- interstate commerce
is taxed no heavier than local business. Political restraints, perhaps lacking when a particular type of business is singled out for special taxation, would not be
absent here.
Moreover, the difference between a tax on property
measured by gross receipts and a tax on the gross receipts
does not appear significant in constitutional terms when
the issue is one of undue burden on interstate commerce.
Either might be an instrument to that end. The apportioned gross receipts tax in Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co.,
supra, was in terms "an annual excise tax for the privilege
of exercising" the corporation's franchises in the State.
142 U. S. p. 219. The Court stated, p. 228, "a resort to
those receipts was simply to ascertain the value of the
business done by the corporation, and thus obtain a guide
to a reasonable conclusion as to the amount of the excise
tax which should be levied . . . ." As much can be said
of the present case and, of the Puget Sound case. While
the tax is in terms one on the privilege of doing
business, resort is made to the gross receipts merely to
ascertain the value of the business. No vice of extraterritoriality or multiple taxation is involved. The value
taxed is attributable to business within the taxing State
and may not be reached by any other State. That value
terms as to include receipts from transportation which are properly
taxable. ,It is unnecessary, therefore, to discuss the question which
would arise if the tax were properly a tax on income. It is clearly
not such, but a tax on transportation only." Cf. United States Glue
Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, which sustained as against an interstate enterprise a net income tax of general application.

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

is, of course, augmented by the interstate character of
the business. But the same is true in any apportionment
case. Galveston, Harrisburg& S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas,
supra, p. 225; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, supra,
pp. 455-456.
Respondents pay other taxes to New York City, including the usual property taxes. But so long as a taxdoes not
discriminate against interstate commerce and is fairly apportioned to the activities in the taxing state, taxing the
business twice is for constitutional purposes no different
than doubling a single tax. If the whole scheme of taxation adopted by a particular State were taken into account,
it might be that a case of discrimination against interstate
commerce could be made out. But there is no suggestion
that this is such a case. Nor can we say that the system
which has been adopted here bids fair to be more harmful
to interstate commerce than a system designed to raise
the same amount of revenue by the use of a gross receipts
tax in lieu of property taxes.
Moreover, as noted in Gwin, White & Prince, Inc. v.
Henneford,supra,p. 438, and in Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen,
supra, pp. 312-313, there have been other cases sustaining
a gross receipts tax on interstate enterprises where the
gross receipts tax fairly measured the value of a local
privilege or franchise and all risk of multiple taxation
was absent. Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing Dist., 145
U. S. 1, upheld a state license tax imposed upon the privilege of doing a brokerage business within the State and
measured by the gross receipts from sales of merchandise
shipped into the State for delivery after sales were made.
American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, upheld
a municipal license tax on the gross receipts of a manufacturer who was producing goods for interstate commerce. The tax was sustained as an excise upon the conduct of a manufacturing enterprise. Those taxes, like
property taxes or taxes on activities confined solely to

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

the taxing state (New York, Lake Erie & W. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania,158 U. S. 431; Utah Power & Light Co. v.
Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Coverdale v. Arkansas-Louisiana
Pipe Line Co., 303 U. S. 604), have no cumulative effect
caused by the interstate character of the business. They
are apportioned to the activities taxed, all of which are
intrastate. Plainly the loading and unloading involved
in the present case are activities as local in character as
the brokerage activities in the Ficklen case or the manufacturing business in the American Mfg. Co. case. One
has as close and as immediate a relationship to interstate
commerce as the other. Cf. United States v. Darby, 312
U. S. 100. If one gives rise to a taxable event for which
the State may exact a portion of the gross receipts, it is
difficult to see why the other does not. The practical
effect on interstate commerce is the same in each.
In McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra, p. 52, we
held that a sales tax on the purchase of property at the end
of its interstate journey was not to be distinguished from
a tax on the property itself. For taxation of the sale was
merely taxation of the exercise of one of the constituent
elements of the property. Unless formal doctrine is to be
restored to this field, the label which the tax bears should
not be controlling; and the tax should be sustained unless
it evinces hostility to interstate commerce or in practical
operation obstructs or impedes it. Either result may
obtain whether the tax be called a property tax or a gross
receipts tax. As McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co.,
supra,p. 48, states:
"Certain types of tax may, if permitted at all, so
readily be made the instrument of impeding or destroying interstate commerce as plainly to call for
their condemnation as forbidden regulations. Such
are the taxes already noted which are aimed at or discriminate against the commerce or-impose a levy for
the privilege of doing it, or tax interstate transporta-

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

443

DouGLAS, J., dissenting in part.

tion or communication or their gross earnings,-or levy
an exaction on merchandise in the course of its interstate journey. Each imposes a burden which intrastate commerce does not bear, and merely because
interstate commerce is being done places it at a disadvantage in comparison with intrastate business or
property in circumstances such that if the asserted
power to tax were sustained, the states would be left
free to exert it to the detriment of the national
commerce."
Measured by that test, the present tax is not invalid.
"Even interstate business must pay its way . .. .
Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252,
259. A non-discriminatory gross receipts tax, apportioned
to local activity in the taxing state, is to be judged by its
practical effect. As we stated in Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435,444:
"The Constitution is not a formulary. It does not
demand of states strict observance of rigid categories
nor precision of technical phrasing in their exercise of
the most basic power of government, that of taxation.
For constitutional purposes the decisive issue turns on
the operating ihicidence of*a challenged tax. A state
is free to pursue its own fiscal policies, unembarrassed
by the Constitution, if by the practical operation of a
tax the state has exerted its power in relation to opportunities which it has given, to protection which it has
afforded, to benefits which it has conferred by the fact
of being an orderly, civilized society."
All local taxes on interstate businesses affect to some degree the commerce and increase the cost of doing it.
Matters of form should not be decisive if the tax threatens
no harm to interstate commerce.
Prior to McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra,it had
long been said that "Interstate commerce cannot be taxed

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

at all, even though the same amount of tax should be laid
on domestic commerce, or that which is carried on solely
within the state." Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing
Dist., 120 U. S. 489, 497. That was the philosophy of the
Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. case. And see Fargo v:
Michigan, supra, pp. 246-247. But McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra, did not adhere to that formal
doctrine. It followed Wiloil Corp. v. Pennsylvania, 294
U. S. 169, and upheld a "non-discriminatory tax on the
sale to a 'buyer within the taxing state of a commodity
shipped interstate in performance of the sales contract,
not upon the ground that the delivery was not a part of
interstate commerce . . . but because the tax was not a

prohibited regulation of, or burden on, that commerce."
Illinois Natural Gas Co. v. Central Illinois Public Service
Co., 314 U. S. 498, 505. The test adopted was whether the
tax on the local activity as a practical matter was being
used to place interstate commerce at a competitive disadvantage or obstruct or impede it. That should be the
approach here; "the logic of words should yield to the
logic of realities." Mr. Justice Brandeis dissenting, Di
Santo v. Pennsylvania, 273 U. S. 34, 43. The failure of
the Court to adhere to the philosophy of our recent cases
corroborates the impression which some of us had that
Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249, marked the end of one
cycle under the Commerce Clause and the beginning of
another.
Second. I think the tax is unconstitutional insofar as it
reaches the gross receipts from loading and unloading vessels engaged in foreign commerce. Such a tax is repugnant to Article I, § 10, Clause 2 of the Constitution, which
provides that "No State shall, without the Consent of the
Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing it's inspection Laws ....

JOSEPH v. CARTER & WEEKES CO.
422

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting in part.

Loading and unloading are a part of "the exporting process" which the Import-Export Clause protects from state
taxation. See Thames & Mersey Ins. Co. v. United States,
237 U. S. 19, 27. Activity which is a "step in exportation"
has that immunity. Spalding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262
U. S. 66, 68. As the Court says, loading and unloading
cargo are "a continuation of the transportation." Indeed,
the commencement of exportation would occur no later.
See Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, 329 U. S. 69. And
the gross receipts tax is an impost on an export within the
meaning of the Clause, since the incident "which gave rise
to the accrual of the tax was a step in the export process."
Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, supra, p. 84.
As we pointed out in that case, the Commerce Clause
and the Import-Export Clause "though complementary,
serve different ends." 329 U. S. p. 76. Since the Commerce Clause does not expressly forbid any tax, the Court
has been free to balance local and national interests.
Taxes designed to make interstate commerce bear a fair
share of the cost of local government from which it receives benefits have been upheld; taxes which discriminate against interstate commerce, which impose a levy
for the privilege of doing it, or which place an undue
burden on it have been invalidated. But the ImportExport Clause is written in terms which admit of no exception but the single one it contains. Accordingly a state
tax might survive the tests of validity under the Commerce
Clause and fail to survive the Import-Export Clause. For
me the present tax is a good example.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

joins in this dissent except as to

the second part, as to which he is of the opinion that the
tax in relation to the gross receipts from loading
and unloading vessels engaged in foreign commerce is
constitutional.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

330 U. S.

AMERICAN STEVEDORES, INC. v. PORELLO
NO. 69.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*

Argued December 11, 12, 1946.-Decided March 10, 1947.
1. The Public Vessels Act, 43 Stat. 1112, which provides that a "libel
in personam in admiralty may be brought against the United
States . . . for damages caused by a public vessel of the United

States," authorizes a libel against the United States to recover
damages for death or personal injuries caused by a public vessel
of the United States. Pp. 450-454, 458-460.
2. Mere acceptance by an injured longshoreman of compensation
from his employer pursuant to the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U. S. C. §§ 901-950, without an
award by a deputy commissioner under § 19, does not preclude the
longshoreman from thereafter electing to sue a third-party 'tortfeasor for injuries suffered while working on a vessel. Pp. 454-456.
3. A stevedoring contract being a maritime contract, an admiralty
court has jurisdiction to grant indemnity under an indemnity
provision thereof. P. 456.
4. A district court awarded indemnity to the extent of half of the
damages under an ambiguous indemnity provision of a stevedoring
contract without admitting evidence as to the intention of the
parties or making any clear finding as to the meaning of the contract. On appeal, the circuit cohrt of appeals held that the
stevedoring contractor should indemnify the owner completely.
On review in this Court, the case is remanded to the district court
for determination of the meaning of the contract, since the district court may have the benefit of such evidence as there is upon
the intention of the parties. P.p. 457-458.
153 F. 2d 605, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

No. 69. A longshoreman injured while working on a
public vessel of the United States as an employee of a
corporation engaged in loading the vessel under a stevedoring contract with the United States filed a libel to recover damages from the United States under the Public
*Together with No. 514, United States v. Lauro, Administratrix,
on certificate from the same Court.

