LAND v. DOLLAR.
Syllabus.

724

is true that the law was intended to fill the need for agricultural workers by removing the 1917 prohibition against
would-be employers' inviting and inducing foreign workers
to come to the United States. But we are not persuaded
that the law, which provided specific limitations and
requisites to entry under it, can properly be interpreted
to authorize would-be employers to invite, induce and
offer rewards to aliens to circumvent immigration processing and to enter the United States in disregard and defiance
of law. The 1917 prohibition against employers inducing
laborers to enter the country, enforceable by sanctions, removed obstacles which might hinder immigration authorities in the performance of their duties; we do not think
the 1944 Act was intended to license employers to obstruct
their performance.

The information charged an offense

and it should not have been dismissed.
Reversed.
LAND, CHAIRMAN, UNITED STATES MARITIME

COMMISSION, ET AL. v. DOLLAR ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 207.

Argued February 11, 12, 1947.-Decided April 7, 1947.

1. A steamship company being in financial straits, its stockholders
(respondents here) entered into a contract with the Maritime
Commission, pursuant to which they delivered their common stock,
endorsed in blank, to the Commission, which released respondents
from certain obligations, granted an operating subsidy and made
a loan to the company, and obtained an additional loan for it from
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. After the company had
fully paid all its indebtedness to the United States, respondents
demanded the return of the stock, claiming that it had been pledged
as collateral for a debt which had been paid. The Commission
refused and offered the stock for sale. Respondents sued the individual members of the Commission (petitioners here) in a district
court, praying that they be restrained from selling the stock and

732

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

330 U. S.

directed to return it to respondents. The district court, on its
own motion, dismissed the complaint with prejudice, holding that
the suit was against the United States. Held: The district court
had jurisdiction to determine its jurisdiction by proceeding to a
decision on the merits. Pp. 734-739.
(a) The allegations of the complaint, if proved, would establish
that petitioners are unlawfully withholding respondents' property
under the claim that it belongs to the United States, since that
conclusion would follow if either of respondents' contentions were
established: (1) that the Commission had no authority to purchase
the stock or acquire it outright; or (2) that, even though such
authority existed, the contract resulted not in an outright transfer
but in a pledge of the stock. Pp. 735-736.
(b) If the allegations of the complaint are true, the stock never
was the property of the United States and is being wrongfully
withheld by petitioners, who acted in excess of their authority as
public officers and are answerable personally for their actions.
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196. Pp. 736-739.
(c) While a judgment on such a claim would not be res judicata
against the United States because it cannot be made a party to
the suit, the courts have jurisdiction to resolve the controversy
between those who claim possession. Id. Pp. 736-737.
2. Pursuant to Rule 25 (d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
the Solicitor General moved to substitute as defendants the new
members of the Commission for those who are no longer members.
This Court added the new members as petitioners-defendants, and
dismissed as to a deceased member, but reserved decision as to the
other former members. Held: These questions not having been
briefed or argued here and there being a possibility that the present
record may not present all the facts necessary for disposition of the
motions, the order of substitution is vacated, in order that the
district court, on remand of .the case, may pass on the motion
unembarrassed by any action here. P. 739.
81 U. S. App. D. C. 28,154 F. 2d 307, affirmed.

A District Court dismissed a suit against the individual
members of the Maritime Commission on the ground that
it was a suit against the United States. The United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed. 81 U. S. App. D. C. 28, 154 F. 2d 307. This
Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 700. Affirmed, p. 739.

LAND v. DOLLAR.
731

Opinion of the Court.

Paul-A. Sweeney argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington,Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Melvin
Richter,Ellis Lyons and PaulD. Page.
Gregory A. Harrisonargued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Moses Lasky, Clinton M.
Hester and M. M. Kearney.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners are present and former members of the
United States Maritime Commission. Respondents are
stockholders of Dollar Steamship Lines, Inc., Ltd. (Dollar
of Delaware), whose corporate name was changed to
American President Lines, Ltd., subsequent to the execution in 1938 of a contract out of which the present litigation
arises. By 1937 Dollar of Delaware was in difficult financial straits. The problems confronting it and the various
steps taken to remedy the situation need not be recapitulated here.' It is sufficient for purposes of the various
questions presented by this case to say that the Commission and respondents entered into a contract in 1938 by
which respondents delivered their common stock in Dollar
of Delaware, endorsed in blank, to the Commission; and
the Commission released some of respondents from certain
obligations and agreed to grant Dollar of Delaware an
operating subsidy and to make a loan to it and to obtain
for it another loan from the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation.
The details of the difficulties, and the steps taken to remedy them
are contained in two reports to Congress by the Commission: (1)

Financial Readjustments in Dollar Steamship Lines, Inc., Ltd., dated
February 17, 1938; (2) Reorganization of American President Lines,
Ltd., dated April 10, 1939.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

The subsidy was granted and the loans were made. By
1943 American President Lines, Ltd., had fully paid all indebtedness due the United States. Respondents thereupon demanded return of their shares of stock from the
then members of the Commission, claiming that the shares
had only been pledged as collateral for a debt which had
been paid. The members of the Commission refused to
surrender the shares, claiming that they had not been
pledged under the 1938 contract but transferred outright.
Acting on that theory the Commission had indeed offered
the shares for sale and had under consideration substantial
offers to purchase them.
Thereupon respondents instituted the present suit in
the District Court for the District of Columbia, see 11 D. C.
Code, §§ 301, 305, 306, claiming that petitioners were unlawfully in possession of respondents' stock and illegally
withholding it. The prayer was that petitioners be restrained from selling the shares and be directed to return
them to respondents. Respondents moved for a preliminary injunction. Petitioners submitted affidavits opposing the motion. After a hearing, the District Court on its
own motion dismissed the complaint with prejudice, holding that the suit was against the United States. The
Court of Appeals reversed. 81 U. S. App. D. C. 28, 154
F. 2d 307. The case is here on a petition for a writ of
certiorari which we granted because of the-importance of
2
the question presented.

First. The facts asserted in the affidavits support the
view that the 1938 contract called for the outright transfer
of the shares, not for their pledge. But we put the affidavits to one side for two reasons. In the first place, the
function of the affidavits was to oppose the motion for a
2 Although

the judgment below was not a final one, we considered
it appropriate for review because it involved an issue "fundamental to
the further conduct of the case." United States v. General Motors
Corp., 323 U. S. 373, 377.

LAND v. DOLLAR.
731

Opinion of the Court.

preliminary injunction. The case had not been submitted
for decision on the merits. Issue, indeed, had not yet been
joined. And the ruling of the District Court, as we read
it, was based on the premise that since the Commission
had the right to make the contract, the suit was against
the United States.' Hence we do not think the District
Court in fact relied on the affidavits in dismissing the complaint. In the second place, although as a general rule
the District Court would have authority to consider questions of jurisdiction on the basis of affidavits as well as the
pleadings,' this is the type of case where the question of
jurisdiction is dependent on decision of the merits.
The allegations of the complaint, if proved, would
establish that petitioners are unlawfully withholding
respondents' property under the claim that it belongs
to the United States. That conclusion would follow
if either of respondents' contentions were established:
(1) that the Commission had no authority to purchase the
shares or acquire them outright; or (2) that, even though
I The District Court said:

". .. I

think .

.

. that the Commission

had the legal right; and therefore I think it is inescapable that this is

a suit against the United States and therefore that the complaint
must be dismissed .... "
'In passing on a motion to dismiss because the complaint fails to
state a cause of action, the facts set forth in the complaint are assumed
to be true and affidavits and other evidence produced on application
for a preliminary injunction may not be considered. Polk Co. v.
Glover, 305 U. S. 5, 9; Gibbs v. Buck, 307 U.. S. 66, 76. But when a
question of the District Court's jurisdiction is raised, either by a party
or by the court on its own motion, Judicial Code § 37, 28 U. S. C.
§ 80, Fed. R. Civ. P. 12 (b), the court may inquire, by affidavits
or otherwise, into the facts as they exist. Wetmore v. Rymer,
169 U. S. 115, 120-121; McNutt v. General Motors Corp., 298 U. S.
178, 184 et seq.; KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press, 299 U. S. 269, 278.
As stated in Gibbs v. Buck, supra, pp. 71-72, "As there is no statutory
direction for procedure upon an issue of jurisdiction, the mode of its
determination is left to the trial court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

such authority existed, the 1938 contract resulted not in an
outright transfer but in a pledge of the shares.
If respondents are right in these contentions, their claim
rests on their right under general law to recover possession
of specific property wrongfully withheld. At common law
their suit as pledgors to recover the pledged property on
payment of the debt would sound in tort.'
If viewed in that posture, the case is very close to United
States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196. That. was an action in ejectment to recover possession of a tract of land. The defendants were military officers who, acting under orders of
the President, took possession of the land and converted
one part into a fort and another into a cemetery. For
the lawfulness of their possession they relied on a tax sale
of the property to the United States. On the trial it was
held that the claim of the plaintiffs to the land was valid
and that the defendants were wrongfully in possession.
The Court affirmed the judgment over the objection that
the suit was one against the United States. It held that
the assertion by officers of the Government of their author
ity to act did not foreclose judicial inquiry into the lawfulness of their action; that a determination of whether their
"authority is rightfully assumed is the exercise of jurisdiction, and must lead to the decision of the merits of the
question." P. 219. It further held that while such an
adjudication is not res judicata against the United States
because it cannot be made a party to the suit, the courts
have jurisdiction to resolve the controversy between those
who claim possession. And it concluded that an agent or
officer of the United States who acts beyond his authority
is answerable for his actions. And see PhiladelphiaCo. v.
Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 619-620 Sloan Shipyards Corp. v.
United States Fleet Corp., 258 U. S. 549, 567.
'Restatement of the Law of Torts, §§ 223, 237; 3 Street, Foundations of Legal Liability (1906), p. 160.

LAND v. DOLLAR.
731

Opinion of the Court.

Where the right to possession or enjoyment of property
under general law is in issue, and the defendants claim as
officers or agents of the sovereign, the rule of UnitedStates
v. Lee, supra, has been repeatedly approved. Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R. Co., 109 U. S. 446, 452;
Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204; Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S.
436, 439; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 152-153;
PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, supra, pp. 619-620; Goltrav.
Weeks, 271 U. S. 536, 545; Ickes v. Fox, 300 U. S. 82, 96;
Great Northern Life Ins. Co. v. Read, 322 U. S. 47, 50-51.
That rule is applicable here although we assume that
record title to the shares is in the Commission. In United
States v. Lee, supra, record title of the land was in the
United States and its officers were in possession. The
force of the decree in that case was to grant possession
to the private claimant. Though the judgment was not
res judicata against the United States, p. 222, it settled
as between the parties the controversy over possession.
Precisely the same will be true here, if we assume the allegations of the complaint are proved. For if we view the
case in its posture before the District Court, petitioners,
being members of the Commission, were in position to restore possession of the shares which they unlawfully
held.
We do not trace the principle of United States v. Lee,
supra, in its various ramifications. Cases on which petitioners rely are distinguishable. This is not an indirect
attempt to collect a debt from the United States by preventing action of government officials which would alter
or terminate the contractual obligation of the United
States to pay money. See Wells v Roper, 246 U. S. 335;
Mine Safety Co. v. Forrestal,326 U. S. 371. It is not an
attempt to get specific performance of a contract to deliver
property of the United States. Goldberg v. Daniels,
231 U. S. 218. It is not a case where the sovereign

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

admittedly has title to property and is sued by
those who seek to compel a conveyance or to enjoin
disposition of the property, the adverse claims being based
on an allegedly superior equity or on rights arising under
Acts of Congress. Cunninghamv. Macon & Brunswick R.
Co., supra;Minnesotav. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373; Oregon
v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60; Naganabv. Hitchcock, 202 U. S.
473; Louisianav. Garfield,211 U. S. 70; Morrisonv. Work,
266 U. S. 481. And see Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255,
271-272.
We say the foregoing cases are distinguishable from the
present one, though as a matter of logic it is not easy to
reconcile all of them. But the rule is based on practical
considerations reflected in the policy which forbids suits
against the sovereign without its consent. The "essential
nature and effect of the proceeding" may be such as to
make plain that the judgment sought would expend itself
on the public treasury or domain, or interfere with the
public administration. Ex parteNew York, 256 U. S. 490,
500, 502. If so, the suit is one against the sovereign.
Mine Safety Co. v. Forrestal,supra, p. 374. But public
officials may become tort-feasors by exceeding the limits
of their authority. And where they unlawf!lly seize or
hold a citizen's realty or chattels, recoverable by appropriate action at law or in equity, he is not relegated to the
Court of Claims to recover a money judgment. The dominant interest of the sovereign is then on the side of the
victim who may bring his posessory action to reclaim that
which is wrongfully withheld.
It is in the latter category that the pleadings have cast
this case. That is to say, if the allegatibns of the petition
are true, the shares of stock never were property of the
United States and are being wrongfully withheld by petitioners" who acted in excess of their authority as public
officers. If ownership of the shares is in the United States,
suit to recover them would of course be a suit against the

LAND v. DOLLAR.
731

RnD, J., concurring.

United States. But if it is decided on the merits either
that the contract was illegal or that respondents are
pledgors, they are entitled to possession of the shares as
against petitioners, though, as we have said, the judgment
would not be res judicata as against the United States.
See United State8 v. Lee, supra,p. 222.
We intimate no opinion on the merits of the controversy.
We only hold that the District Court has jurisdiction to
determine its jurisdiction by proceeding to a decision on
the merits.
Second. Motions were made by the Solicitor General
to substitute as defendants the new members of the Commission for those who are no longer members.' We
added the new members as petitioners-defendants, and
dismissed as to a deceased member, but reserved decision
as to the other former members. A majority of those
joining in this opinion are of the view that it is more
appropriate that both motions be considered by the District Court. The questions have not been briefed or
argued here. Moreover, the present record may not present all the facts necessary for disposition of the motions.
Accordingly, we vacate the order of substitution which we
entered, so that the District Court may, on remand of the
cause, pass on the motions unembarrassed by any action
here.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
concurring.
As I think this proceeding states a cause of action
against the United States Maritime Commission, I do not
MR. JUsTICE REED,

6See Fed. R. Civ. P. 25 (d); Allen v. Regents, 304 U. S. 439,
444-445.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
REED,

J., concurring.

330 U. S.

agree with the manner of disposition. No damages are
sought against the petitioners. Relief is sought that can
only be obtained by an order directed against the Commission.
A contract between plaintiffs, Dollar et al., and the
United States Maritime Commission, was attached to the
complaint as an exhibit. The contract was not signed
by any individual member of the Commission but by the
Commission through its duly authorized special counsel.
In the complaint, respondents alleged that they and their
predecessors in interest "caused said shares of stock of
the company to be transferred to the United States Maritime Commission." They further alleged that they made
demand upon the "Maritime Commission for the return
of said stock in July, 1945. This request was denied by
the Maritime Commission in July, 1945." The ultimate
result sought by the complaint was that the respondents
"be directed and ordered by this court to return the plaintiffs' stock, now in the unlawful possession and custody
of the defendants, to the plaintiffs, the lawful owners."
Taken as a whole, I cannot read the complaint otherwise
than as alleging that title and possession of this stock is
now in the United States Maritime Commission. Although plaintiffs assert possession in the defendants, the
other allegations and the attached contract show that defendants.hold the stock by virtue of their official positions
as members of the Commission. If the basic allegations
were proven, the Commission would be shown to be in
possession of the stock under a claim of right.
If that is the correct interpretation of the complaint,
it follows of course that the Maritime Commission is an
indispensable party to this proceeding. See Commonwealth Trust Co. v. Smith, 266 U. S. 152, 159. No matter
how far beyond their statutory powers the members of
the Commission may have acted in contracting with the

LAND v. DOLLAR.
731

Rnm, J., concurring.

respondents or how illegal may be the retention of the
certificates by the Commission under its claim of ownership through the contract, the transfer to the Commission,
as alleged in the petition, put the title and possession of
this property in the Maritime Commission and not in the
petitioners as individuals. It may be that the Commission holds the stock wrongfully; but, if so, it can only be
restored to the respondents by an act of the Commission.
Under such circumstances, cases like United States v. Lee,
106 U. S. 196, are inapplicable. In the Lee case, an action
in ejectment was brought to recover possession of land
from officers of the United States who were wrongfully in
possession of the land. That suit was not brought against
the United States to compel the United States to rgtransfer title to the complainants or to quiet title in those who
claimed against the United States. In United States v.
Lee, the officer of the United States could be ejected from
the real property involved without loss of title or right of
possession to the United States. That is not the result
in this case. A piece of paper, the stock certificate, will
be taken from the hands of the Maritime Commission and
placed in the hands of plaintiffs by a court decree, if plaintiffs are successful. If the decree is to be effective, it will
require the individual defendants to transfer the certificates by endorsement of the name of the Maritime Commission or delivery, if the certificate is still in the name
of the plaintiffs. The situation is as if the United States
had been ordered by the decree in the Lee case to convey
title to and possession of the property to Lee. Plaintiffs
do not here seek damages for past acts of petitioners.
Plaintiffs ,want property now in the possession of the Maritime Commission and to secure this relief, plaintiffs, I
should think, must implead the Commission. Whether
the Maritime Commission holds the property by title unchallenged by the plaintiffs-or challenged by the plaintiffs

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
REED, J., concurring.

330 U. S.

cannot, it seems to me, be determinative as to the necessity
of making the Commission a party. See Goldberg v.
Daniels,231 U. S. 218.
Cases cited in the opinion of the Court as following the
rule of UnitedStates v. Lee are not significant here. Two
are similar cases of ejectment.1 Other cases cited turn on
liability of a sovereign to suits2 Still others are those
which enjoin an officer from proceeding illegally." In
Goltra v. Weeks, 271 U. S. 536, 539, 549, there was a suit
by a lessee to enjoin officers of the United States from taking possession of boats leased to the plaintiff by the Government and also to return the boats already taken. The
prayer for a return of the property contained the possibility of the issue here raised but this Court treated the
proceeding as one to enjoin a threatened trespass.
The present suit is for the return to the plaintiffs of
property held by the Maritime Commission under a contract which the Dollar interests allege called for a return
of the certificates to them on payment of a debt. Such a
suit, it seems to me, i an effort to get possession of property actually in the possession of the Maritime Commission. This cannot be done without joining the Maritime
Commission as a party defendant. See Goldberg v. Daniels, 231 U. S. 218; Wells v. Roper,246 U. S. 335; Morrison

v. Work, 266 U. S. 481, 487; Mine Safety Co. v. Forrestal,
326 U. S. 371.
As this appears to me as a suit against the Commission,
I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals, remanding this case to the District Court. There the quesTindal v. We8ley, 167 U. S. 204; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S.
141.
2Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R. Co., 109 U. S. 446; Smith
v. Reevea, 178 U. S. 436; Great Northern In8. Co. v. Read, 322
U.S.47.
3lcke8 v. Fox, 300
U. S. 82; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimaon, 223 U. S.

605.

BRUCE'S JUICES v. AMER. CAN CO.
Statement of the Case.

731

tions of the suability of the Commission' and the effect of
the Administrative Procedure Act of June 11, 1946, could
be considered. There the merits of the controversy could
be decided.
BRUCE'S JUICES, INC. v. AMERICAN CAN CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.
No. 27.

Reargued November 14, 1946.-Decided April 7, 1947.

In a suit by a seller against a buyer on notes given for the accumulated balance remaining on a running account of sales and credits
over a period of years, it is no defense that the seller had engaged
in price discriminations against the buyer in violation of the Robinson-Patman Act, which prescribes criminal penalties and entitles
injured persons to triple damages, but does not expressly make
the contract of sale illegal or the purchase price uncollectible. Pp.
750-757.
*155 Fla. 877, 22 So. 2d 461, affirmed.

The Supreme Court of Florida affirmed a judgment
on certain notes for the unpaid balance of the purchase
price of goods. 155 Fla. 877, 22 So. 2d 461. This Court
,granted certiorari, 326 U. S. 711, and affirmed the judg-

ment below by an equally divided Court. 327 U. S. 758.
It granted a rehearing and restored the cause to the docket
for reargument before a full bench. 327 U. S. 812.
Affirmed, p. 757.
4 Merchant Marine Act, 49 Stat. 1988, § 207, as amended, 52 Stat.
954, § 2:
"The Commission may enter into such contracts, upon behalf of
the United States, and may make such disbursements as may, in
its discretion, be necessary to carry on the activities authorized by
this Act, or to protect, preserve, or improve the collateral held by
the Commission t9 secure indebtedness, in the same manner that a
private corporation may contract within the scope of the authority
conferred by its charter." Keifer & Keifer v. R. F. C., 306 U. S. 381.

