610

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

NEW YORK

EX REL.

330 U. S.

HALVEY v. HALVEY.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 384. Argued February 5,1947.-Decided March 31, 1947.
After a man and wife had been married in New York, had a child
born there, and had lived there seven years, the wife took the child
to Florida without the husband's consent and established a residence there. The next year, she instituted suit for divorce in
Florida. Service of process on the husband was had by publication
and he made no appearance. The Florida court granted the wife
a divorce and awarded her permanent care, custody, and control
of the child; but, the day before the decree was granted, the husband took the child to New York without the knowledge or approval of the wife. The wife instituted habeas corpus proceedings
in New York, challenging the legality of the detention of the child.
The New York court ordered (1) that the custody of the child
remain with the mother, (2) that the father have rights of visitation including the right, to keep the child with him during stated
vacation periods each year, and (3) that the mother give a surety
bond conditioned on the delivery of the child in Florida for removal by the father to New York for the period when he was
entitled to keep it with him. Held: The order of the New York
court did not fail to give the Florida decree the full faith and
credit required by Article IV, § 1 of the Constitution. Pp. 612-616.
(a) Under Florida law, custody decrees of Florida courts ordinarily are not res judicata in Florida or elsewhere, except as to
facts before the court at the time of judgment. Pp. 612-613.
(b) The Florida court would have been empowered to modify
the decree in the interests of the child and to grant the father the
right of visitation, had he applied to it rather than the New York
court and presented his version of the controversy for the first
time in his application for modification of the Florida decree.
Pp. 613-614.
(c) So far as the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the Constitution is concerned, what Florida can do in modifying the decree,
New York also may do. Pp. 614-615.
295 N. Y. 836,66 N. E. 2d 851, affirmed.

HALVEY v. HALVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

610

A Florida court having granted a divorce and awarded
custody of a child to a mother and the child having been
removed to New York by the father without the mother's
consent, the mother instituted habeas corpus proceedings
in New York. The New York court ordered (1) that the
custody of the child remain with the mother, (2) that
the father have rights of visitation including the right to
keep the child with him during stated vacation periods
each year, and (3) that the mother give a surety bond
conditioned on delivery of the child in Florida for removal
by the father to New York for the. periods when he was
entitled to keep it with him. 185 Misc. 52, 55 N. Y. S.
2d 761. Both the Appellate Division, 269 App. Div. 1019,
59 N. Y. S. 2d 396, and the Court of Appeals affirmed, 295
N. Y. 836, 66 N. E. 2d 851. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 697. Affirmed, p. 616.
B. E. Hendricks argued the cause, and Robert S. Florence filed a brief, for petitioner.
Samuel Shapiro argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
The Halveys were married in 1937 and lived together
in New York until 1944. In 1938 a son was born. Marital troubles developed. In 1944 Mrs. Halvey, without
her husband's consent, left home with the child, went to
Florida, and established her residence there. In 1945 she
instituted a suit for divorce in Florida. Service of process
on Mr. Hilvey was had by publication, he making no appearance in the action. The day before 'heFlorida decree
was granted, Mr. Halvey, without the knowledge or approval of his wife, took the child back to New York. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

next day the decree was entered by the Florida court,
granting Mrs. Halvey a divorce and awarding her the
permanent care, custody, and control of the child.
Thereupon she brought this habeas corpus proceeding
in the New York Supreme Court, challenging the legality
of Mr. Halvey's detention of the child. After hearing, the
New York court ordered (1) that the custody of the child
remain with the mother; (2) that the father have rights of
visitation including the right to keep the child with him
during stated vacation periods in each year, and (3) that
the mother file with the court a surety bond in the sum
of $5,000, conditioned on the delivery of the child in
Florida for removal by the father to New York for the
periods when he had the right to keep the child with him.
185 Misc. 52, 55 N. Y. S.761. Both the Appellate Division, 269 App. Div. 1019, 59 N. Y. S. 2d 396' and the Court
of Appeals, 295 N. Y. 836, 66 N. E. 2d 851, affirmed without opinion. The case is here on a petition for a writ
of certiorari which we granted because it presented an
important problem under the Full Faith and Credit
Clause of the Constitution. Article IV, § 1.
The custody decree was not irrevocable and unchangeable; the Florida court had the power to modify it at all
times.1 Under Florida law the "welfare of the child" is
the "chief consideration" in shaping the custody decree
or in subsequently modifying or changing it. Frazier v.
Frazier, 109 Fla. 164, 169, 147 So. 464, 466; See Phillipsv.
Phillips, 153 Fla. 133, 134-135, 13 So. 2d 922, 923.
1

"In any suit for divorce or alimony, the court shall have power at

any stage of the cause to make such orders touching the care, custody
and maintenance of the children of the marriage, and what, if any, security to be given for the same, as from the circumstances of the
parties and the nature of 'the case may be fit, equitable and just, and
such order touching their custody as their best spiritual as well as
other interests may require." Fla. Stats. (1941) § 65.14.

HALVEY v. HALVEY.
610

Opinion of the Court.

But "the inherent rights of parents to enjoy the
society and association of their offspring, with reasonable
opportunity to impress upon them a father's or a mother's
love and affection in their upbringing, must be regarded
as being of an equally important, if not controlling consideration in adjusting the right of custody as between
parents in ordinary cases." Frazier v. Frazier, 109 Fla.,
p. 169, 147 So., p. 466. Facts which have arisen since the
original decree are one basis for modification of the custody decree. Frazier v. Frazier,109 Fla., p. 168, 147 So.,
p. 465; Jones v. Jones, 156 Fla. 524, 527, 23 So. 2d 623,
625. But the power is not so restricted. It was held
in Meadows v. Meadows, 78 Fla. 576, 83 So. 392-393,
that "the proper custody of the minor child is a proper
subject for consideration by the chancellor at any time,
even if facts in issue could have been considered at a
previous hearing, if such facts were not presented or considered at a former hearing." (Italics added.) Or, as
stated in Frazierv. Frazier,109 Fla., p. 168, 147 So., p. 465,
a custody decree "is not to be materially amended or
changed afterward, unless on altered conditions shown to
have arisen since the decree, or because of material facts
bearing on the question of custody and existing at the
time of the decree, but which were unknown to the Court
and then only for the welfare of the child." The result
is that custody decrees of Florida courts are ordinarily
not res judicata either in Fiorida or elsewhere, except as
to the facts before the court at the time of judgment.
Minick v. Minick, 111 Fla.-469, 490-491, 149 So. 483,
492.
Respondent did not appear in the Florida proceeding.
What evidence was adduced in that proceeding bearing on
the welfare of the child does not appear. But we know
that the Florida court'--thot see respondent nor hear
evidence presented on his behalf concerning his fitness

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

or his claim "to enjoy the society and association" of his
son. Frazier v. Frazier, 109 Fla., p. 169, 147 So., p. 466.
It seems to us plain, therefore, that under the rule of
Meadows v. Meadows, supra, the Florida court would
have been empowered to modify the decree in the interests
of the child and to grant respondent the right of visitation,
if he had applied to it rather than to the New York court
and had presented his version of the controversy for the
first time in his application for modification.
So far as the Full Faith and Credit Clause is concernea,
what Florida could do in modifying the decree, New York
may do. Article IV, § 1 of the Constitution provides that "Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each
State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings
of every other State. And the Congress may by general
Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records
and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof."
Congress by the Act of May 26, 1790, c. 11, as amended,
R. S. § 905, 28 U. S. C. § 687 declared that judgments "shall
have such faith and credit given to them in every court
within the United States as they have by law or usage in
the courts of the State from which they are taken." The
general rule is that this command requires the judgment of
a sister State to be given full, not partial, credit in the
State of the forum. See Davis v. Davis, 305 U. S. 32;
Williams v. North Carolina, 317 U. S. 287. But a
judgment has no constitutional claim to a more conclusive or final effect in the State of the forum than it
has in the State where rendered. See Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254, 264. If the court of the State which
rendered the judgment had no jurisdiction -over the person
or the subject matter, the jurisdictional infirmity is not
saved by the Full Faith and Credit Clause.
See Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Griffin v. Griffin, 327 U. S.
220. And if the amount payable under a decree-as in

HALVEY v. HALVEY.
610

Opinion of the Court.

the case of a judgment for alimony-is discretionary with
the court which rendered it, full faith and credit does not
protect the judgment. Sistare v. Sistare, 218 U. S. 1, 17.
Whatever may be the authority of a State to undermine
a judgment of a sister State on grounds not cognizable in
the State where the judgment was rendered (Cf. Williams
v. North Carolina,325 U. S.226, 230), it is clear that the
State of the forum has at least as much leeway to disregard the judgment, to qualify it, or to depart from it as
does the State where it was rendered.
In this case the New York court, having the child and
both parents before it, had a full hearing and determined
that the welfare of the child and the interests of the
father warranted a modification of the custody decree.
It is not shown that the New York court in modifying the
Florida decree exceeded the limits permitted under
Florida law. There is therefore a failure of proof that the
Florida decree received less credit in New York than it had
in Florida.
The narrow ground on which we rest the decision makes
it unnecessary for us to consider several other questions
argued, e. g., whether Florida at the time of the original
decree had jurisdiction over the child,' the father having
removed him from the State after the proceedings started
but before the decree was entered;. whether in absence of
personal service the Florida decree of custody had any
binding effect on the husband; whether the power of
New York to modify the custody decree was greater
2

The legal domicile of the child is usually the domicile of his father.

.Minick v. Minick, 111 Fla., p. 490, 149 So., p. 492; Dorman v.
Friendly, 146 Fla. 732, 738, 1 So. 2d 734, 736. ,The power of the
Florida courts to award custody of a child is dependent either on the
child being legally domiciled in Florida or physically present there.
Dorman v. Friendly, supra; State ex rel. Clark v. Clark, 148 Fla. 452,
4 So. 2d 517.

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

330 U. S.

than Florida's power; whether the State which has jurisdiction over the child may, regardless of a custody decree
rendered by another State, make such orders concerning
custody as the welfare of the child from time to time
requires. On all these problems we reserve decision.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result on the
ground that the record before us does not show jurisdiction
in the Florida court.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

Conflicts arising out of family relations raise problems
and involve considerations very different from controversies to which debtor-creditor relations give rise. Such
cardinal differences in life are properly reflected in law.
And so, the use of the same legal words and phrases in
enforcing full faith and credit for judgments involving
the two types of relations ought not to obliterate the
great difference between the interests affected by them,
and should not lead to an irrelevant identity in result.
The constitutional policy formulated by the Full Faith
and Credit Clause cannot be fitted into tight little
categories or too abstract generalities. That policy
was the nation-wide restriction of litigiousness, to the
extent that States, autonomous for certain purposes,
should not be exploited to permit repetitive litigation.
In substance, the Framers deemed it against the national
welfare for a controversy that was truly litigated in one
State to be relitigated in another. Such limitation does
not foreclose inquiry into what was litigated and what was
adjudicated. The scope of the Full Faith and Credit
Clause is bounded by its underlying policy and not by
procedural considerations unrelated to it. Thus, in judgments affecting domestic relations technical questions of
"finality" as to alimony and custody seem to me irrelevant

HALVEY v. HALVEY.
610

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

in deciding the respect to be accorded by a State to a valid
prior judgment touching custody and alimony rendered
by another State. See the concurring opinion in Barber
v. Barber, 323 U. S. 77, 86, and the dissenting opinions in
Griffin v. Griffin, 327 U. S. 220, at 236 and 248. Compare
Yarborough v. Yarborough, 290 U. S. 202.
Which brings me to the present case. If there were no
question as to the power of Florida to provide for the
custody of this child in the manner in which the Florida
decree of divorce did, I think New York would have to
respect what Florida decreed, unless changed conditions
affecting the welfare of the child called for a change in
custodial care. New York could respond to such changed
circumstances. The child's welfare must be the controlling consideration whenever a court which can actually
lay hold of a child is appealed to on behalf of the child.
Short of that, a valid custodial decree by Florida could
not be set aside simply because a New York court, on independent consideration, has its own view of what custody
would be appropriate.
Here the lower New York court did not piovide for the
child's custody on the basis of changed circumstances.
While it professed to respect the Florida custody decree,
the court acted as though it had independent authority
because of the dispersion of the family. Its action
seemed to be controlled by the father's right, on the assumption that that was the test of the child's welfare in
the circumstances. The order of the lower court was
affirmed by the Appellate Division, but that court specifically noted that it did "not adopt in their entirety the
views expressed" by the court below. The intermediate
tribunal was, in turn, affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
Of course, if the Florida decree is entitled to no respect,
it is not for us to upset the custodial provisions sanctioned
by the highest court of New York. Although we are not
afforded the guidance that an opinion would give as to

618.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

330 U. S.

the considerations that moved the New York Court of
Appeals to sustain the custodial decree, on the slimi record
before us I am not justified in finding that the New York
Court of Appeals was unmindful of its duty under the
Full Faith and Credit Clause to respect a valid Florida
judgment.
In determining whether the New York judgment should
stand or fall account must be taken of two competing considerations.- There is first the presumptive jurisdiction of
the court of a sister State-here Florida-to render the
judgment for which full faith and credit is asked. The
other is the power of a State court-here New Yorkwhich has actual control of the child to make provision for
the child's welfare. Where, as here, both considerations
cannot prevail one must yield. Since the jurisdiction of
the Florida court in making the custodial decree is doubtful, New York was justified in exercising its power in the
interest of the child. Williams v. North Carolina, 325
U. S.226.
. A close-analysis of the precise issue before us seems
to me
to require this conclusion. The problem before .this Court
is the validity of a New York judgment providing for the
custody of a child subject to its jurisdiction because within
its power. It is our duty to sustain that judgment unless
there is clear ground for upsetting it. Apart from the
effect of what Florida had previously done, New York's authority to enter this judgment is unquestioned. New
York's power is qualified only by her duty under the Full
Faith and Credit Clause to respect ,a Florida judgment. But this duty arises only if there was legal power
in the Florida Court to enter the custodial deQree, and if
in the Florida courts themselves the decree was not subject
to the kind of modification which New York here made.
On the basis of the meager record before us and in view of
the uncertainties of Florida law, we do not have the necessary assurance that Florida had jurisdiction to issue the

HALVEY v. HALVEY.
610

RUTLEDGE,

619

J., concurring.

custodial decree, or that the Florida courts could not enter
a modifying decree precisely like the New York decree
before us. So long as there is this uncertainty, we are not
justified in finding that New York's judgment was
vitiated because of a failure in her duty under the Full
Faith and Credit Clause. A full record of the Florida
proceedings in the light of applicable Florida law, more
securely ascertained than by our independent inquiry,
might lead to a different conclusion. As it is, I concur
in affirmance of the judgment.
concurring.
I join in the judgment dubitante in the view that under
Florida law res .judi.cata has no application to an award
of custody' and the decree therefore is lacking in any
quality of finality which would prevent the court rendering it, or another acquiring jurisdiction of the child's status,
from altering it.'
The result seems unfortunate in that, apparently, it may
make possible a continuing round of litigation over custody, perhaps also of abduction, between alienated parents. That consequence hardly can be .thohlght'conducive
to the child's welfare. And, if possible, I would avoid such
MR. JUSTIcE RUTLEDGE,

I In

Minick v. Minick, 111 Fla. 469, 491, the Florida Supreme Court

quoted with approval the statement in Schouler on Marriage and
Divorce (6th ed.) § 1896: "These judgments [of custody] are necessarily provisional and temporary in character, and are ordinarily not
res judicata, either in the same court or that of a foreign jurisdiction,
except as to facts before the court at the time of the judgment." See
also Meadows v. Meadows, 78 Fla. 576.
2 The trial court in New York gave lip service to observing the
Florida award of custody to the mother, but awarded the father rights
"of visitation" not allowed under the Fldrida decree; and these included not only visitation during specified hours while the child is to
remain in the mother's custody, but also the right to have the custody
during more than three months of each year, during which time the
mother was given specified visiting rights. The New York appellate
courts affirmed the award as made by the trial court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

330,U. S.

a distressing result, since I think that the controlling consideration should be the best interests of the child, not only
for disposing of such cases as a matter of local policy, as it
is in Florida and New York,' but also for formulating
federal policies of full faith and -credit as well as of jurisdiction and due process in relatiorf to such dispositions.
I am not sure but that the effect of the decision may be
that the mother, once the child has been returned to
Florida,4 will then be able to secure another decree there
nullifying the father's rights of visitation and custody
given by the New York decree,5 or that in such an event:
he might lawfully repeat the abduction and secure restoration of those rights in New York. If so, the effect of the
decision may be to set up an unseemly litigious competition between the states and their respective courts as well
as between parents. Sometime, somehow, there should
be an end to litigation in such matters.
But our function here is limited to application of the
full faith and credit clause. I agree that technical notions
8See Fla. Stat. Ann. (1943) § 65.14; Jones v. Jones; 156 Fla. 524,
527; Green v. Green, 137 Fla. 359, 361.
See Matter of Rich v. Kaminsky, 254 App. Div. 6; Matter of Bull,
266 App. Div. 290, aff'd, 291 N. Y. 792; see also N. Y. Domestic Relations Law § 70; Finlay v. Finlay, 240 N. Y. 429, 433.

' The New York judgment permits the mother to take the child to
Florida during the time she is to have custody, see note 2, but requires
her to give a surety bond conditioned upon her surrendering the child
to the father at the beginning of the periods prescribed for his having
custody.
The mother therefore consistently with the New York decree may
lawfully remove the child to Florida. Once he is physically and lawfully present there, it would seem that the courts of that state would
be able to acquire jurisdiction over his status and to make further
awards concerning it, unless indeed personal service of process upon
the father is required for that purpose.
5See notes 2, 4. The question would remain whether the Florida
courts by making a further decree could relieve the mother of the
compulsion of the surety bond.

HALVEY v. HALVEY.
610

RUTLnDGF.,

J., concurring.

of finality-applied generally to other types of judgment
for such purposes have no proper strict application to these
decrees.' But, even so, full faith and credit is concerned
with finality and only with finality when the question
arises in relation to the binding effects of judgments. And
the law is clearly settled that while generally the clause requires other states to give judgments as much effect as
they have where rendered, it does not require them to give
more."
Accordingly, if the state rendering the judgment gives it
no final effect to prevent its alteration, I am unable to see how others having jurisdiction of the parties andthe subject matter may be required to give it finality in this respect by virtue of the provision for full faith and credit.8
But this is what we would have to require, in view of the
state of Florida law, in order to hold that New York could
not make the changes which were incorporated in its
judgment.
Whether Florida will be bound to observe those changes,
in the event of another application by Mrs. Halvey, is a
question upon which however I desire to reserve judgment, along with the other questions reserved in the
Court's opinion.
6

See the opinion dissenting in part in Griffin v. Griffin, 327 U. S.
'220, at 247; also the concurring opinion in Barber v. Barber,323 U. S.
77, at 86.
7Rev. Stat. § 905, 28 U. S. C. § 687, and cases cited in Griffin v.
Griffin, 327 U. S. 220, 236, note 1.
8
Commentators who have suggested that full faith and credit be
given to custody decrees have assumed that such awards could be
modified only on- the basis of new facts occurring subsequent to the
original custody decree. See, e. g., Effect of Custody Decree in a
State Other Than Where Rendered (1933) 81 U. Pa. L. Rlev. 970, 972.
As the opinion of the Court points out, the power of Florida to modify
such a decree is not limited to change of circumstance. See also
note 1.

