OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

330 U. S.

WALLING, WAGE AND -HOUR ADMINISTRATOR,
v. NASHVILLE,' CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS
RAILWAY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 335.

Argued January 17, 1947.-Decided February 17, 1947.

1. The Wage and Hour Administrator sued to enjoin alleged violations
of §§ 15 (a) (2) and 15 (a) (5) of the Fair Labor Standards Act,
requiring that minimum wages be paid to employees covered by the
Act. and that appropriate records be kept concerning their employment and pay. The trial court found that, as to one group of
allegeol employees, the defendant railroad "for several years past
has been complying with the Act as to them and apparently intends
in good faith to do so in the future," and denied the injunction.
That finding was not challenged here; and no argument was made
here that it was not adequate to support denial of the relief granted.
Held: Denial of the injunction as to this group is sustained. P. 159.
2. Under facts practically' identical with those involved in Wi.ling v.
Portland Terminal Co., ante, p. 148, and for the reasons there stated,
persons in training tp become yard and main line firemen, brakemen,
and switchmen for a railroad, held not to be "employees" within the
meaning of § 3 (e) of the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 160.
155 F. 2d 1016, affirmed.

The Wage and Hour Administrator sued to enjoin alleged violations of §§ 15 (a) (2) and 15 (a) (5) of the Fair
Labor Standards Act, 52 Stat. 1060, 1068. The District
Court denied the injunction. 60 F. Supp. 1004. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 1016. This
Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 696. Affirmed, p. 160.
William S. Tyson argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Stanley M. Silverberg and Mforton Lif tin.

Walton Whitwell argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Edwin F. Hunt and Wm. H.
Swiggart.

WALLING v. NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. R. CO.
158

159

Opinion of the Court.

Leste" P. Schoene filed a brief for the Railway Labor
Executives' Association, as amicus curiae, in support of
petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcx delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner, Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division, United States Department of Labor, filed this

action in a Federal District Court to enjoin alleged viola.tions by the respondent railroad of §§ 15 (a) (2) and
15 (a) (5), of the Fair Labor Standards Act. 52 Stat.
1060, 1068. These sections require that minimum wages
be paid to employees covered by the Act and that appropriate records be kept concerning their employment and
pay. The railroad was charged with having violated the
Act with regard to two types of alleged employees: First,
persons in training to become yard and main line firemen,
brakemen, and switchmen; second, others in training to
become clerks, stenographers, callers, messengers, and
other similar general miscellaneous workers. The District
Court held that the first group were not "employees" and
therefore were not covered by the Act. On this ground
alone the injunction was denied as to them. It also denied
relief as to the second group, clerks, etc., partly on this
same ground. Another ground for denying relief as to the
second group was the court's finding that the railroad "for
several years past has been complying with the Act as to
them, and apparently intends in good faith to do so in the
future." 60 -F. Supp. 1004, 1007-1008. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 1016, one judge dissenting. We granted certiorari because of the importance
of the questions decided. 329 U. S. 696.
The finding of the District Court that the railroad had
been complying with the Act in good faith in its business
relations with the trainee clerks, stenographers, etc. is not
challenged. No argument is here made that this is not
adequate support for denial of the relief granted as to

-OCTOBER

TERM, 1946.

Syllabus.

330 U. S.

this second group. Under these circumstances, we affirm
the court's action in denying an injunction to enjoin violations of the Act as to these trainees. We therefore do
not reach the question as to whether this group as a whole
or any of the persons in it were or were not employees
under the Act.
The sole ground for denying relief as to the persons
training to become firemen, brakemen, and switchmen was
that they were not employees. The findings of fact here
as to the training of these trainees are in all relevant respects practically identical with the findings of fact in
Walling v. PortlandTerminal Co., this day decided, ante,
p. 148. These findings of fact are not challenged. For
the reasons set out in that opinion we hold that the Circuit
Court of Appeals was not in error in holding that the persons receiving training in order to become qualified for
employment as firemen, brakemen, and switchmen, are
not employees within the meaning of the Fair Labor
Standards Act.
Affirmed.
BOZZA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No, 190.

Argued January 7, 1947.-Decided February 17, 1947.

1. In a trial on an indictment for making and fermenting mash for
the production of alcohol in violation of 26 U. S. C. § 2834; the

evidence showed that C alone handled and mixed the ingredients
of the mash and there was no evidence to indicate that B ever took
any part in, or aided and abetted, this particular part of the process

of operating an illicit distillery or that he was ever in the part of
the premises where the ingredients were stored and the mash was

made, although he helped to operate the still in a different part
of the premises and to transport the product. Held.: The Government's concession that the evidence was insufficient to sustain a
conviction of B is accepted. P. 163.

