OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

CONE v. WEST VIRGINIA PULP & PAPER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 184. Argued February 3, 1947.-Decided March 3, 1947.
Where a party whose motion for a directed verdict has been denied
in a federal district court fails, within 10 days after reception of
a verdict against him, to make a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, as authorized by Rule 50 (b) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure, an appellate court is precluded from
directing entry of such a judgment. Pp. 217-218.

153 F. 2d 576, reversed.

Petitioner sued respondent in a state court for damages
for trespass upon lands. The suit was removed to the
Federal District Court because of diversity of citizenship.
A judgment for the petitioner was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which directed entry of judgment for
the respondent. 153 F. 2d 576. This Court granted
certiorari "limited to the questions of federal procedure
raised by the petition for the writ." 329 U. S. 701.
Reversed, p. 218.
H. Wayne Unger and, by special leave of Court, James
P. Mozingo, pro hac vice, argued the cause for petitioner.
With them on the brief was W. J. McLeod, Jr.
Christie Benet and Charles W. Waring argued the
cause for respondent. With them on the brief was J. B. S.
Lyles.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner brought this action in a South Carolina
state court. Upon motion of respondent, it was removed to the Federal District Court because of diversity

CONE v. WEST VIRGINIA PAPER CO.
212

213

Opinion of the Court.

of citizenship of the parties.. The complaint claimed
$25,000 damages upon allegations that the respondent's
agents had trespassed upon and cut timber from lands
owned by and in the possession of the petitioner. Respondent's answer denied that the petitioner had title or
possession of the lands and timber. Both title and possession became crucial issues in the trial. The burden
of proving them rested on the petitioner.1 When all the
evidence of both parties had been introduced, the respondent moved for a directed verdict in its favor on the ground
that the petitioner had failed to prove that he either owned
or was in possession of the land.! This motion was
denied. The jury returned a verdict for petitioner for
$15,000, and the court entered judgment on the verdict.
The respondent moved for a new trial' on the ground of
newly discovered evidence. This motion was denied.
Respondent did not move for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict as it might have done under Rule 50 (b) of the
'Under governing South Carolina law an action such as this- is
not one to try title but "to recover damages for trespass to property
of which the plaintiff was in possession." Macedonia Baptist Church
v. Columbia, 195 S. C. 59, 70, 10 S. E. 2d 350, 355. But possession
may be presumed from proof of legal title. Beaufort Land & Investment Co. v. New River Lumber Co., 86 S. C. 358, 68 S. E. 637;
Haithcock v. Haithcock, 123 S. C. 61, 115 S. E. 727; Code of Laws
of South Carolina (1942) ยง 377. Petitioner here undertook to prove
possession both by showing that he had legal title and by showing
that he had openly- and notoriously exercised acts of dominion, possession, and ownership over a long period of years.
2 Respondent first moved to dismiss the case on the same grounds
under Rule 41 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure. That rule provides for a dismissal, under the circumstances and conditions there
set out, where "upon the facts and the law the plaintiff has shown no
right to relief." Since substantially the same disposition of the case
on the same grounds was later requested by respondent in the motion
for a directed verdict, we shall have no occasion further to discuss
the motion to dismiss.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which is set out
below.3
The Circuit Court of Appeals decided that the admission
of certain evidence offered by the petitioner to prove legal
.title was prejudicial error. It held that without this
improperly admitted evidence petitioner's proof was not
sufficient to submit the question of title to the jury. That
court also held that petitioner's evidence showing possession was insufficient to go to the jury. It therefore
reversed the case. But instead of remanding it to the
District Court for a new trial, the Circuit Court of Appeals
directed that judgment be entered for respondent. 153
F. 2d 576. That court has thus construed Rule 50 (b)
as authorizing an appellate court to direct a judgment
notwithstanding the verdict, even though no motion for
such a judgment had been made in the District Court
within ten days after the jury's discharge.
The petition for certiorari challenged the power of an
appellate court to direct entry of a judgment notwithstanding the verdict where timely motion for such a judg3 50 (b) "RESERVATION OF DECISION ON MOTION. Whenever a
motion for a directed verdict made at the close of all the evidence
is denied or for any reason is not granted, the court is deemed to
have submitted thp action to the jury subject to a later determination
of the legal questions raised by the motion. Within 10 days after
the reception of a verdict, a party who has moved for a directed
verdict may move to have the verdict and any judgment entered
thereon set aside and to have judgment entered in accordance with
his motion for a direoted verdict . . . A motion for a new trial may

be joined with this motion, or a new trial may be prayed for in the
alternative. If a verdict was returned the court may allow the judgment to stand or may reopen the judgment and either order a new
trial or direct the entry of judgment as if the requested verdict had
been directed. If no verdict was returned the court may direct te
entry of judgment as if the requested verdict had been directed or
may order a new trial."

CONE v. WEST VIRGINIA PAPER CO.
212

215

Opinion of the Court.

ment had not been made in the District Court. On three
previous occasions we have granted certiorari to consider
this point but failed to reach it because, upon examination
of the evidence, we found it sufficient to justify submission
of all three cases to the jury. Conway v. O'Brien, 312
U. S. 492; Berry v. United States, 312 U. S. 450; Halliday
v. United States, 315 U. S. 94., In this case we grafited
certiorari "limited to the questions of federal procedure
raised by the petition for the writ." 329 U. S. 701. The
point we had in mind was whether a party's failure to
make a motion in the District Court for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, as permitted in Rule 50 (b),
precludes an appellate court from directing entry of such
a judgment. Other questions have been discussed here,
but we do not consider them. Consequently, we accept,
without approving or disapproving, the Circuit Court of
Appeals' holding that there was prejudicial error in the
admission of evidence and in the submission of the case
to the jury.
Rule 50 (b) contains no language which absolutely
requires a trial court to enter judgment notwithstanding
the verdict even though that court is persuadeq that it
erred in failing to direct a verdict for the losing party.
The rule provides that the trial court "may reopen the
judgment and either order a new trial or direct the entry
of judgment as if the requested verdict had been directed."
This "either-or" language means what it seems to mean,
namely, that there are circumstances which might lead the
trial dourt to believe that a new trial rather than a final
termination of the trial stage of the controversy would
better serve the ends of justice. In short, the rule does
not compel a trial judge to enter a judgment notwithstanding the verdict instead of ordering a new trial ;it permits
him to exercise a discretion to choose between the two
alternatives. See Berry v. United States, supra, 452-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

453.' And he can exercise this discretion with a fresh
personal knowledge of the issues involved, the kind of
evidence given, and the impression made by -witnesses.
His appraisal of the bona fides of the claims asserted by
the litigants is of great value in reaching a conclusion as to
whether a new trial should be granted. 'Determination
of whether a new trial should be granted or a judgment
entered under Rule 50 (b) calls for the judgment in the
first instance of the judge who saw and heard the witnesses and has the feel of the case which no appellate
printed transcript can impart. See Marchv. Philadelphia
& West Chester Traction Co., 285 Pa. 413, 418, 132 A.
355, 357; Bunn v. Furstein, 153 Pa. Super. 637, 638, 34 A.
2d 924. See also Yutterman v. Sternberg, 86 F. 2d 321,
324. Exercise of this discretion presents to the trial judge
an opportunity, after all his rulings have been made and
all the evidence has been evaluated, to view the proceedings in a perspective peculiarly available to him alone.
He is thus afforded "a last chance to correct his own errors
without the delay, expense or other hardships of an appeal." See Greer v. Carpenter,323 Mo. 878, 882, 19 S..W.
2d 1046, 1047. Cf. United States v. Johnson, 327 U. S.
106,112.
4The Advisory Committee on Rules for Civil Procedure in commenting on Rule 50 (b) stated that "A trial court or an appellate
court in setting aside a verdict always has discretion, if justice requires
it, to order a new trial, instead of directing the entry of judgment.
Rule 50 (b) states that the court on a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict 'may either order a new trial or direct the entry
of judgment' for the moving party." Report of Proposed Amendments to Rules of Civil Procedure (1946) 66. See also New York
Symposium on Federal Rules (1938) 283-284. Compare March v.
Philadelphia & West Chester Traction Co., 285 Pa. 413, 132 A. 355;
Nadeau.v. Maryland Casualty Co., 170 Minn. 326, 331, 212 N. W.
595, 597; Anderson v. Newsome, 193 Minn. 157, 258 N. W. 157;
Porsmerv. Davis, 152 Minn. 181,188 N. W. 279; Jackson v. Hansard,
45 Wyo..201,218, 17 P. 2d 659, 664.

CONE v. WEST VIRGINIA PAPER CO.
212

217

Opinion of the Court.

There are other practical reasons why a litigant should
not have his right to a new trial foreclosed without having
had the benefit of the trial court's judgment on the question. Take the case where a trial court is about to direct
a verdict because of failure of proof in a certain aspect
of the case. At that time a litigant might know or have
reason to believe that he could fill the crucial gap in the
evidence. Traditionally, a plaintiff in such a dilemma has
had an unqualified right, upon payments of costs, to take
a nonsuit in order to file a new action after further preparation, unless the defendant would suffer some plain legal
prejudice other than the mere prospect of a second lawsuit. Pleasants*v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 122; Jones v.
S. E. C., 298 U. S. 1, 19-20 and cases cited. Rule 41 (a)
(1) preserves this unqualified right of the plaintiff to a dismissal without prejudice prior to the filing of defendant's
answer. And after the filing of an answer, Rule 41 (a)
(2) still permits a trial court to grant a dismissal without
prejudice "upon such terms and conditions as the court
deems proper." 5
In this case had respondents made a timely motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the petitioner
could have either presented reasons to show why he should
have a new trial, or at least asked the court for permission
to dismiss. If satisfied from the knowledge acquired
from the trial and because of the reasons urged that
the ends of justice would best be served by allowing
petitioner another chance, the judge could have so provided in his discretion. The respondent failed to submit
5 Rule 41 (a) (2), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, has been interpreted as authorizing a plaintiff to dismiss his action "without prejudice where the court believes that although there is a technical failure
of proof there is nevertheless a meritorious claim." Report of Proposed Amendments to Rules of Civil Procedure (1946) 64; see United
States v.'Lyman, 125 F. 2d 67; 138 F. 2d 509; Home Owners' Loan
Corporationv. Huffman, 134 F. 2d 314,317.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict to
the trial judge in order that he might exercise his discretionary power to determine whether there should be such
a judgment, a dismissal or a new trial. In the absence
of such a motion, we think the appellate court was without
power to direct the-District Court to enter judgment
contrary to the one it had permitted to stand.
It has been suggested that the petitioner could have
presented affidavits to the Circuit Court of Appeals to
support his claim for a new trial, and that that court could
thereupon have remanded the question to the District Court to pass upon it.' Such a circuitous method of
determining the question cannot be approved.. For Rule
50 (b) specifically prescribes a period of ten days for
making a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. Yet the method here suggested would enable litigants to extend indefinitely the prescribed ten-day period
simply -by adoption of the expedient of an appeal.
Furthermore, it would present the question initially to
the appellate court when the primary discretionary responsibility for its decision rests on the .District Court.
Reversed.

8 This general, suggestion was made by the Advisory Committee
on Rules for Civil Procedure in its recent recommendation to us for
modification of Rule 50 (b). The Committee said: "Even on appeal,
if the appellate court sets aside his verdict, he may present to the
appellate court affidavits to support his claim to a new trial, and
the appellate court has power to receive the affidavits and remand
the case to the trial court with instructions to consider the affidavits
and determine whether a new trial should be allowed." Report of
Proposed Amendments, supra,66.

