UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.

75

Syllabus.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
(C. I. 0.) ET AL. V. MITCHELL ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 20.

Argued December 3, 1945. Reargued October 17, 1946.Decided February 10, 1947.

1. Under § 3 of the Act of August 24, 1937, 50 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C.
§ 380a, a direct appeal to this Court was taken-from a judgment of
a district court of three judges denying an injunction in a case
involving the constitutionality of a federal statute. The case was
not docketed in this Court until after 60 days from the time the
appeal was allowed. Theteps prescribed by Rule 11 of this Court
for obtaining a dismissal were not taken by the appellces. Held:
This Court has jurisdiction of the appeal. Pp. 84-86.
(a) The provision of 28 U. S. C. § 380a requiring an appeal thereunder to be docketed in this Court within 60 days from the time the
appeal is allowed was not intended to vary Rule 11 of this Court
and does not constitute a limitation on the power of this Court to
hear this appeal. Pp. 85-86.
(b) Rude 47 of this Court requires the same practice for appeals
under 28 U. S. C. § 380a that Rule 11 does for other appeals. P. 86.
2. Certain employees of the executive branch of the Federal Government sued for an injunction against the members of the Civil
Service Commission to prohibit them from enforcing against such
employees § 9 (a) of the Hatch Act, 18 U. S. C. Supp. V § 61h,
which forbids such employees from taking "any active part in political management or in political campaigns," and also for a
declaratory judgment of the unconstitutionality of this section.
They did not allege that they had violated the Act or that they
actually were threatened with any disciplinary action, but only that
they desire to engage in acts of political management and in political campaigns (specifying the nature of the actions which they wish
to take) and are prevented from. doing so by fear of dismissal from
federal employment. Held: Their suit does not present a justiciable case or controversy. Pp. 86-91.
3. Another employee of the executive branch of the. Federal Government brought a similar suit, alleging that he actually had committed

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

330 U. S.

specific violations of the Act and that the Commission had charged
him with violations and had issued a proposed order for his removal,
subject to his right to reply to the charges and to present further
evidence in refutation. Held: His suit presents a justiciable case
or controversy. Pp. 91-94.
(a) Since the employee admits that he violated the Act and that
removal from office is therefore mandatory under the Act, there
is no question as to exhaustion of administrative remedies. P. 93.
(b) There being no administrative or statutory review for the
Commission's order and no prior proceeding pending in the courts,
there is no reason why a declaratory judgment action does not lie,
even though constitutional issues are involyed. P. 93.
4. A person employed as a roller in a United States mint acted outside
of working hours as a ward executive committeeman of a political
party and was politically active on election day as a worker at the
polls and as a paymaster for the services of other workers. The
Civil Service Commission found that he had taken an "active part
in political management or in political campaigns" in violation of
§ 9 (a) of the Hatch Act, 18 U. S. C. Supp. V § 61h, and Rule 1
of the Commission pind issued an order for his removal from federal
employment. Held: Such a breach of the Hatch Act and Rule 1
of the Commission can be made the basis for disciplinary action
without violating the Constitution. Pp. 94-104.
. (a) Congress has the power to regulate, within reasonable limits,
the political conduct of federal employees, in order to promote efficienty and integrity in the public service.

Ex parte Curtis, 106

U. S. 371; United States v. Wurzbach, 280 U. S. 396. Pp. 96-103.
(b) The fundamental human rights guaranteed by the First,
Fifth, Ninth and Tenth Amendments are not absolutes; and this
Court must balance the extent of the guarantee of freedom against
a congressional enactment to protect a, democratic society against
the supposed evil of political partisanship by employees of the
Government. Pp. 95-96.
(c) The Hatch Act permits full participation by federal employees in political decisions at the ballot box and forbids only the
partisan activity deemed offensive to efficiency. P. 99.
(4) It does not restrict public and private expressions on public
affairs, personalities and matters of public interest, not an objective
ei party action, sd long as the government employee does not direct
his Acti&ties toward party success. P. 100.
(e) If political activity by government employees is harmful

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

77

Counsel for Parties.

to the service, the employees or people dealing with them, it is
hardly less so because it takes place after hours. P. 95.
(f) The prohibition of § 9 (a) of the Hatch Act applies without
discrimination to all employees of the executive branch of the
Government, whether industrial or administrative. P. 102.
(g) Whatever differences there may be between administrative
employees of the Government and industrial workers in its employ
are differences in detail for the consideration of Congress, so far
as the constitutional power here involved is concerned. P. 102.
(h) The determination of the extent to which political activities
of government employees shall be regulated lies primarily with
Congress; and the courts will interfere only when such regulation
passes beyond the generally existing conception of governmental
power. P. 102.
5. Acting as ward executive committeeman of a political party and
as a worker at the polls is within the prohibitions of § 9 of the
Hatch Act and the Civil Service Rules. P. 103.
56 F. Supp. 621, affirmed.

Certain employees of the executive branch of the Federal Government and a union of such employees sued to
enjoin the members of the Civil Service Commission from
enforcing the provision of § 9 (a) of the Hatch Act, 18
U. S. C. Supp.-V § 61h, which forbids such employees to
take "any active part in political management or in political campaigns" and for a declaratory judgment holding
the Act unconstitutional. The District Court dismissed
the suit. 56 F. Supp. 621. A direct appeal to this Court
was taken under § 3 of the Act of August 24, 1937, 50 Stat.
752, 28 U. S. C. § 380a. Affirmed, p. 104.
Lee Pressman argued the cause for appellants. With
him on the brief were Frank Donner and Milton V.
Freeman.
Ralph F. Fuchs argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, David L. Kreeger and
Abraham J. Harris.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE REED

330 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Hatch Act,* enacted in 1940, declares, unlawful
certain specified political activities of federal employees."
Section 9 forbids officers and employees in the executive
branch of the Federal Government, with exceptions, from
taking "any active part in political management or in
political campaigns." 2 Section 15 declares that the activ*Another controversy under the same act is decided today.

Okla-

homa v. United States Civil Service Commission, post, p. 127.
'August 2, 1939, 53 Stat. 1147; July 19, 1940, 54 Stat. 767; 56 Stat.
181,986; 58 Stat. 136, 148, 727; 59 Stat. 108, 658; 60 Stat. 937. Only
the first two are important for consideration of this case.
2 18 U. S. C. § 61h, as amended:
"(a) It shall be unlawful for any person employed in the executive
branch of the Federal Government, or any agency or department
thereof, to use his official authority or influence for the purpose of
interfering with an election or affecting the result thereof. No officer
or employee in the executive branch of the Federal Government, or.
any agency or department thereof, except a part-time officer or parttime employee without compensation or with nominal compensation
serying in connection with the existing war effort, other than in any
capacity relatiog to the procurement or manufacture of war material
shalltake any active part in political management or in political
campaigns. All such persons shall retain the right to vote as, they
may choose and to express their opinions on all political subjects
and candidates. For the purposes of this.section the term 'officer'
or 'employee' shall not be construed to include (1) the President
and Vice President of the United States; (2) persons whose compensation is paid from the appropriation for the office, of the President;
(3) heads and assistant heads of executive departments; (4) officers
who are appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, and who determine policies to be pursued by
the United States in its relations with foreign powers or in the NationWide administration of Federal laws.
"(b) Any person violating the IProvisions of this section shall be
immediately removed from the position or office held by him, and
thereafter no part of the funds appropriated by any Act of Congress
for such position or office shall be used to pay the compensation of
rsuch person." 53 Stat. 1147, 1148; 54 Stat. 767; 56 Stat. 181.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

79

Opinion of the Court.

ities theretofore determined by the United States Civil
Service Commission to be prohibited to employees in the
classified civil service of the United States by the Civil
Service Rules shall be deemed to be prohibited to federal
employees covered by the Hatch Act.3 These sections of
the Act cover all federal officers and employees whether
in the classified civil service or not and a penalty of dismissal from employment is imposed for violation. There
is no designation of a single governmental agency for its
enforcement.
For many years before the Hatch Act the Congress had
authorized the exclusion of federal employees in the competitive classified service from active participation in political management and political campaigns.' In June, 1938,
18 U. S. C. § 61o:
"The provisions of this subchapter which prohibit person to whom
such provisions apply from taking any active part in political management or in political campaigns shall be deemed to prohibit the
same activities on the part. of such'persons as the United States Civil
Service Commission has heretofore determined are at the time this
section takes effect prohibited on the part of employees in the classified
civil service 'of the United States by the provisions of the civil-service
rules prohibiting such empl6yees from taking any active part in political management or in political campaigns."\ 54 Stat. 767, 771.
4 See Civil Service Act (1883), § 2,22 Stat. 403-404:
"SEC. 2. That it shall be the duty of said commissioners:
"FIRST. To aid the President, as he may request, in preparing suitable rules for carrying this .act into effect, and when said rules shall
have been promulgated it shall be the duty of all officers of the United
States in the' departments and offices to which any such rules may
relate to aid, in all proper ways, in carrying said rules, and any
modifications thereof, into effect.
"SECOND. And, among other things, said rules shall provide and
declare, as nearly as the conditions of good administration will warrant,
as follows:
"Sixth, that no person in said service has any right to use his official

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

the congressional authorization for exclusion had been
made more effective by a Civil Service Commission disThat power to discipline members of
ciplinary rule.'
the competitive classified civil service continues in the
Commission under the Hatch Act by virtue of the present
applicability of the Executive Order No. 8705, March 5,
1941. The applicable Civil Service Commission rules are
authority or influence to coerce the political action of any person or
body."
5 U. S. C. § 631:
"The President is authorized to . ..establish regulations for the
conduct of persons who may receive appointments in the civil
service."
First Annual Report, Civil Service Commission, H. R. Ex. Doe. No.
105, 48th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 45:
"In the exercise of the power vested in the President by the Constitution, and by virtue of the 1753d section of the Revised Statutes,
and of the civil service act approved January 16, 1883, the following
rules for the regulation and improvement of the executive civil service
are hereby amended and promulgated:
RuLu I.
"No person in said service shall use his official authority or influence
either to coerce the political action of any person or body or to
interfere with any election."Executive Order No. 642, June 3, 1907 (amended to consolidate
without changing wording, Executive Order No. 655, June 15, 1907);
Twenty-Fourth Annual Report, Civil Service Commission, House Doc.
No. 600,60th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 104:
"Section 1 of Rule I of the civil-service rules is hereby amended to
read as follows:
"No person in the Executive civil service shall use his official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or
affecting the result thereof. Persons who, by the provisions of these
rules are in the competitive classified service, while retaining the right
to vote as they please and to express privately their opinions on all
political subjects, shall take no active part in political management
or in political campaigns."
5Civil Service Rules 15, 3 Fed. Reg. 1525.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

81

Opinion of the Court.

printed in the margin.' The only change in the Civil Service Rules relating to political activity, caused by the Hatch
Act legislation, that is of significance in this case is the
elimination on March 5, 1941, of the word "privately"
from the phrase "to express privately their opinions."
This limitation to private expression had regulated
classified personnel since 1907.'
The present appellants sought an injunction before a
statutory three-judge district court of the District of Co6 5 C. F. R., Cum. Supp., § 1.1: "No interference with elections.

No person in the executive civil service shall use his official authority
or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or affecting
the results thereof. Persons who by the provisions of the rules in
this chapter are in the competitive classified service, whil6 retaining
the right to vote as they please and to express their opinion on all
political subjects, shall take no active part in political management
or in political campaigns."
Section 15.1: "Legal appointment necessary to compensation.
Whenever the Commission finds, after due notice and opportunity for
explanatioh, that any person has been appo:.nted to or is holding any
position, whether by original appointment, promotion, assignment,
transfer, or reinstatement, in violation of the Civil Service Act or
Rules, or of any Executive order or any regulation of the Commission,
or that any employee subject thereto has violated such Act, Rules,
orders, or regulations, it shall certify the facts to, the proper appointing
officer with specific instructions as to discipline or dismissal of the
person or employee affected. If the appointing office*r fails to carry
out the instructions of the Commission within 10 days after receipt
thereof, the Commission shall certify the facts to the proper disbursing
and auditing officers, and such officers shall make no payment or allowance of the salary or wages of any such person or employee thereafter
accruing."
See E. 0. 8705, March 5, 1941, 6 Fed. Reg. 1313.
7See
note 4, supra,and 5 C. F R. § 1.1, June 1, 1938.
A change occurred also in Rule 15. This was to comply with a
ruling of the Attorney General that the Hatch Act made removal
from office a mandatory penalty for forbidden political activity. 40
Op. A. G., Political Activity by Government Employees, January 8,
1941. See note 5, supra, for Rule 15 prior to Hatch Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

lumbia against appellees, members of the United States
Civil Service Commission, to prohibit them from enforcing against appellants the provisions of the second sentence of § 9 (a) of the Hatch Act for the reason that the
sentence is repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.' A declaratory judgment of the unconstitutionality of the sentence was also sought.' The sentence
referred to reads, "No officer or employee in the executive
branch of the Federal Government . . . shall take any
active part in political management or in political
campaigns."
Various individual employees of the federal executive
civil service and the United Public Workers of America, 0
a labor union with these and other executive employees
as members, as a representative of all its members, joined
in the suit. It is alleged that the individuals desire to
engage in acts of political management and in political
campaigns. Their purposes are as stated in the excerpt
from the complaint set out in the margin.1 From the
8 See

28 U. S. C. § 380 (a); § 11-306 District of Columbia Code.
Judicial Code § 274d; 28 U. S. C. § 400.
10 No contention that appeilant, United Public Workers of America
(C. I. 0.), lacked capacity to bring this action is made by appellees.
We need not consider the question here. McCandless v. Furlaud,
293 U. S. 67, 73-74. See Fishgold v. Sullivan Drydock & Repair
Corp., 328 U. S. 275.
1 "In discharge of their duties of citizenship, of their right to vote,
and in exercise of their constitutional rights of freedom of speech, of
the press, of assembly, and the right to engage in political activity,
the individual plaintiffs desire to engage in the following acts: write
for publication letters and articles in support of candidates for office;
be connected editorially with publications which are identified with
the legislative program of UFWA [former name of the present union
appellant] and. candidates who support it; solicit votes, aid in getting
out voters, act as accredited checker, watcher, or challenger; transport
voters to and from the polls without compensation therefor; participate in and help in organizing political parades; initiate petitions, and
canvass for the signatures of others on such petitions; serve as party
9

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

83

Opinion of the Court.

affidavits it is plain, and we so assume, that these activities
will be carried on completely outside of the hours of employment. Appellants challenge the second sentence of
§ 9 (a) as unconstitutional for various reasons. They are
set out below in the language of the complaint."
None of the appellants, except George P. Poole, f as
violated the provisions of the Hatch Act. They wish ti,
act contrary to its provisions and those of § 1 of the Civil
Service Rules'and desire a declaration of the legally perward committeeman or other party official; and perform any and all
acts not prohibited by any provision of law other than the second
sentence of Section 9 (a) and Section 15 of the Hatch Act, which
constitute taking an active part in political management and political
campaigns."
12 "The second sentence of Section 9 (a) of the Hatch Act is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States as a deprivation of
freedom of speech, of the press, and of assembly in violation of the
First Amendment.
"The second sentence of Section 9 (a) of the Hatch Act is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States as a deprivation of the fundamental right of the people of the United States to engage in political
activity, reserved to the people of the United States by the Ninth and
Tenth Amendments.
"The second sentence of Section 9 (a) of the Hatch Act is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, since it unreasonably prohibits Federal employees from engaging in activities which may be
lawfully carried on by persons who are not Federal employees, thus
constituting a deprivation of liberty in violation of the Fifth
Amendment.
"The second sentence of Section 9 (a) of the Hatch Act is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States since it effects an arbitrary and
grossly unreasonable discrimination between employees of the Federal
Government in the classified civil service subject to its provisions and
employees specifically exempted therefrom, in violation of the Fifth
Amendment.
"The second sentence of Section 9 (a) of the Hatch Act is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States since it is so vague and indefinite as to prohibit lawful activities as well as activities which are
properly made unlawful by other provisions of law, in violation of
the Fifth Amendment."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

missible limits .of regulation.

330 U. S.

Defendants moved to dis-

miss the complaint for lack of a justiciable case or controversy. The District Court determined that each of these
individual appellants had an interest in their claimed
privilege of engaging in political activities, sufficient to
give them a right to maintain this suit. United Federal
Workers of America (C. 1. 0.) v. Mitchell, 56 F. Supp.
621, 624. The District Court further determined that the
questioned provision of the Hatch Act was valid and that
the complaint therefore failed to state a cause of action.
It accordingly dismissed the complaint and granted summary judgment to defendants.
First. The judgment of the District Court was entered
on September 26, 1944.. An order was duly entered on
October 26, 1944, allowing an appeal. 28 U. S. C. § 380a.
The same section of the statutes provides: "In the event
that an appeal is taken under this section, the record shall
be made up and the case docketed in the Supreme Court
of the United States within sixty days from the time such
appeal is allowed, under such rules as may be prescribed
by the proper courts." This appeal was not docketed inthis Court until February 2, 1945, a date after the return
date of the order under § 380a. Thereafter the Government suggested a lack of jurisdiction in this Court to
consider the appeal because of the failure of appellants
to docket the appeal in time. We postponed consideration of our juris'iction over this appeal to the hearing.
We proceed now to a disposition of this question.
To comply with the suggestion of § 380a, this Court
adopted Rule 47.11 In other cases of appeals, Rule 11
'1

Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States, Rule 47:

"Appeals to this court under the Act of August 24, 1937, shall be

governed, as far as may be, by the rules of this court regulating the
procedure on appeal'in other cases from courts of the United
States; . . . The record shall be made up and the case docketed in

this court within sixty days from the time the appeal is allowed."

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

85

Opinion of the Court.

governs docketing." If Rule 11 applies also to appeals
under § 380a, we may hear this appeal, for the steps for dismissal required by Rule 11 were not taken by the appellees.
This is because upon the allowance of an appeal by a judge

of the district court as here, Supreme Court Rules 10 and
36, the case is transferred from the district court to this

Court and subsequent steps for dismissal or affirmance are

to be taken here." If, however, the above-quoted provisioh of § 380a as to docketing is a prerequisite to the power
of this Court to review, this appeal must fail.

Prior to the passage of § 380a, appeals docketed after
the return day were governed by Rule 11, 275 U. S. 602.
In principle it has. long been in existence."8

By the

words of the rule, it appears That dismissal for appel-

lant's tardiness in docketing requires a step by the appellee.

Even after dismissal for failure to docket, the rule
permits tlhis Court to allow the appellant to docket. Noth14 Id., Rule 11: "1. It shall be the duty of the appellant to docket
the case and file the record thereof with the clerk of this court by'or
before the return day, whether in vacation or in term time. But, for
good cause shown, the justice or judge who signed the citation, or any
justice of this court, may enlarge the time, before its expiration, the
order of enlargement to be filed with the clerk of this court. If the
appellant shall fail to comply with this rule, the appellee may have the
cause docketed and the appeal dismissed upon producing a certificate,
whether in term or vacation, from the clerk of the court wherein the
judgment or decree was rendered, stating the case and certifying that
such appeal has been duly allowed. And in no case shall the appellant
be entitled to docket the cause and file the record after the appeal
shall have been dismissed under this rule, unless by special leave of
the court."
'5 Steps allowed in the district court after the allowance of appeal,
such as preparation of the record, extension of time and cost or supersedeas bonds, are for convenience taken in the court possessed of the
record. Rules 10, 11 and 36, Supreme Court; Rule 72, Rules of
Civil Procedure.
16 3 Cranch 239; Bingham v. Morris, 7 Cranch 99; Sparrow v.
Strong, 3 Wall. 97, 103. Compare Grigsby v. Purcel, 99 U. S. 505.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946,
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

ing in the legislative history which has been called to our
attention indicates that Congress intended its docketing
provision to vary Rule 11. Direct appeal accomplishes the
congressional purpose of expediting review, of course, and
is consistent with an unchanged practice as to dismissals. The time to docket may have been enlarged from the
conventional return day of Rules 10 and 11 to bring continental uniformity, see Rule 10, or to give time for the
preparation of a record which would often be large and not
transcribed or printed. It will not expedite determination of constitutional questions to dismiss appeals because
of errors of practice. In fact the sentence of § 380a on
docketing seems deliberately to leave the practice on failure to docket to rules of court. We do not construe the'
requirement of docketing within sixty days as a limitation
on our power to hear this appeal.
So far as our Rule 47 is concerned, we construe it as
requiring in accordance with § 380a the docketing in sixty
days from the allowance of the appeal, instead of the forty
days of our Rule 10, and that, as to dismissals, the first
sentence of Rule 47 requires the same practice for appeals
under § 380a that Rule 11 does for other appeals. We
think it desirable to have sufficient flexibility in the rule
to permit extensions of the time for return in the unusual
situations that occur when large records are involved. In
view of the recognized congressional purpose to quicken
review under § 380a, the discretion to delay final hearing
allowed under Rule 11 will be exercised only on a definite
showing of need therefor to assure fair review. This leads
us to hear this appeal. 1
Second. At the threshold of consideration, we are called
upon to decide whether the complaint statesa controversy
cognizable in this Court. We defer consideration of the
cause of action of Mr. Poole until section Three of this
-,

17 Compare

GeorgiaLumber Co. v. Compania,323 U. S. 334.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

87

Opinion of the Court.

opinion. The other individual employees have elaborated
the grounds of their objection in individual affidavits for
use in the hearing ofi the summary judgment. We select
as an example one that contains the essential averments
of all the others and print below the portions with significance in this suit. 8 Nothing similar to the fourth para18

"At this time, when the fate of the entire world is in the balance

I believe it is not only proper but an obligation for all citizens to
participate actively in the making of the vital political decisions on
which the success of the war and the permanence of the peace to
follow so largely depend. For the purpose of participating in the
making of these decisions it is my earnest desire to engage actively in
political management and political carfipaigns.' I wish to engage in
such activity upon my own time, as a private citizen.
"I wish to engage in such activities on behalf of those candidates
for public office who I believe will best serve the needs of this country
and with the object of 'persuading others of the correctness of my
judgments and of electing the candidates of my choice. This objective
I wish to pursue by all proper means such as engaging in discussion,
by speeches to conventions, rallies and other assemblages, by publicizing my views in letters and articles for publication in newspapers and
other periodicals, by aiding in the campaign of candidates for political
office by posting banners and posters in -public places, by distributing
leaflets, by 'ringing doorbells', by addressing campaign literature, and
by doing any and all acts of like character reasonably designed to
assist in the election of candidates I favor.
"I desire to engage in these activities freely, openly, and without
concealment. However, I understand that the second sentence of
Section 9. (a) of the Hatch Act 'and the Rules of the C. S. C. provide
that if I engage in this activity, the Civil Service Commission will order
that I be dismissed from federal employment. Such deprivation of
my job in the federal government would be a source of immediate and
serious financial loss and otlher injury to me.
I . I
I
"At the last Congressional election I was very much interested in
the outcome of the campaign and offered to help the party of my
choice by being a watcher at the polls. I obtained a watcher's certificate but I was advised that there might be some question' of my right,
to use the certificate and retain my federal employment. Therefore,
on November 1, 1943, the day before election, I called the regional
office of the Civil Service Commission in Philadelphia and spoke to. a

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U, S.

graph of the printed affidavit is contained in the other
affidavits. The assumed controversy between affiant and
the Civil Service Commission as to affiant's right to act
as watcher at the polls on November 2. 1943. had long
been moot when this complaint was filed. We do not
therefore treat this allegation separately. The affidavits,
it will be noticed, follow the generality of purpose expressed by the complaint. See note 11 supra. They
declare a desire to act contrary to the rule against political
activity but not that the rule has~been violated. In this
respect, we think they differ from the type of threat adjudicated in Railway Mail Association v. Corsi, 326 U. S. 88.
In that case, the refusal to admit an applicant to-membership in a labor union on account of race was involved.
Admission had been refused. 326 U. S. at p. 93, note 10.
Definite action had also been taken in Hill v. Florida,325
U. S.538. In the Hill case an injunction had been sought
and allowed against Hill and the union forbidding Hill
from acting as the business agent of the union and the
union from further functioning as a union until it complied with the state law. The threats which menaced the
affiants of these affidavits in the case now being considered
are closer to a general threat by officials to enforce those
laws which they are charged to administer, compare W1atson v. Buck, 313 U. S.387, 400, than they are to the direct
threat of punishment against a named organization for a
completed act that made the Mail Association and the Hill
cases justiciable.
person who gave his name as . . . Mr .... stated that if I used my
watcher's certificate, the Civil Service Commission would see that I
was dismissed from my job at the . . . for violation of the Hatch Act.
I, therefore, did not use the certificate as I had intended.
"I believe that Congress may not constitutionally abridge my right
to engage in the political activities mentioned above. However, unless
the courts prevent the Civil Service Commission from enforcing this

unconstitutional law, I will be unable freely to exercise my rights as a
citizen."

(Identifying words omitted.)

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

89

Opinion of the Court.

As is well known, the federal courts established pursuant
to Article III of the Constitution do~not render advisory
opinions. 9 For adjudication. of constitutional issues,
"concrete legal issues, presented in actual cases, not abstractions," are requisite.' This is as true of declaratory
judgments as any other field." These appellants seem
clearly to, seek advisory opinions upon broad claims of
rights protected- by the First, Fifth, Ninth and Tenth
Amendments to the Constitution. As these appellants are
classified employees, they have,a right superior to the generality of citizens, compare Fairchildv. Hughes, 258 U. S.
126, but the facts of their personal interest in their civil
rights, of the general threat of possible interference with
those rights by the Civil Service Commission under its
rules, if specified things are done by appellants, does not
make a justiciable case or controversy. Appellants want
to engage in "political management and political campaigns," to persuade others to follow appellants' views by
-discussion, speeches, articles and other acts reasonably
designed to secure the selection of appellants' political
choices. Such generality of objection is really an attack
on the political expediency of the Hatch Act, not the presentation of legal issues. It is beyond the competence of
courts to render such a decision. Texas v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 258 U. S. 158, 162.
The power of courts, and ultimately of this Court, to
pass upon the constitutionality of acts of Congress arises
19Correspondence

& Public Papers of John Jay, Vol. 3, p. 486;

Hayburn's Case and notes, 2 Dall. 409; Alabama v. Arizona, 291 U. S.
286, 291; Alabama State Federation of Labor v. McAdory, 325 U. S.

450,461.
20 Electric Bond & Share Co. v. Securities and Exchange Commission, 303 U. S. 419, 443; United States v. Appalachian Electric Power
Co., 311 U. S. 377, 423;' Alabama State Federation of Labor v. McAdory, supra, 461, and cases cited; Coffman v. Breeze Corporations,
323 U. S. 316, 324, and cases cited.
" Altvater v. Freeman, 319 U. S. 359, 363.

.90

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

only when the interests of litigants require the use of this
judicial authority for their protection against actual interference. A hypothetical threat is not enough. We can
only speculate as to the kinds of political activity the
appellants desire to engage in or as to the contents of their
proposed public statements or the circumstances of their
publication. It would not accord with judicial responsibility to adjudge, in a matter involving constitutionality,
between the freedom of the individual and the requirements of public order except when definite rights appear
upon the one side and definite prejudicial interferences
upon the other."
The Constitution allots the nation's judicial power to
the federal courts. Unless these courts respect the limits
of that unique authority, they intrude upon powers vested
in the legislative or executive branches. Judicial adherence to the doctrine of the separation of powers preserves
the courts for the decision of issues, between litigants,
capable of effective determination. Judicial exposition
upon political proposals is permissible only when necessary to decide definite issues between litigants. When the
courts act continually within these constitutionally imposed boundaries of their power, their ability to perform
their function as a- balance for the people's protection
against abuse of power by other branches of government
remains unimpaired. Should the courts seek to expand
their power so as to bring under their jurisdiction ill-defined controversies over constitutional issues, they would
22

It has long been this Court's "considered practice not to decide

abstract, hypothetical or contingent questions,

. .

. or to decide any

constitutional question in advance of the necessity for its decision, . . .or to formulate a rule of constitutional law broader than
is required by the precise facts to which it is to be applied, . . . or to

decide any constitutional question except with reference to the particular facts to which it is to be applied .
" Alabama State Federation of Labor v. McAdory, 325 U. S. 450, 461, and cases cited. See
Alma Motor Co. v. Timken-Detroit Axle Co., 329 U. S. 129.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

91

Opinion of the Court.

become the organ of political theories. Such abuse of judicial power would properly meet rebuke and restriction
from other branches. By these mutual checks and balances by and between the branches of government, democracy undertakes to preserve the liberties of the people
from excessive concentrations of authority. No threat of
interference by the Commission with rights of these appellants appears beyond that implied by the existence of the
law and the regulations. Watson v. Buck, supra, p. 400.
We should not take judicial cognizance of the situation
presented on the part of the appellants considered in this
subdivision of the opinion. These reasons lead us to conclude that the determination of the trial court, that the
individual appellants, other than Poole, could maintain
this action, was erroneous.
Third. The appellant Poole does present by the complaint and affidavit matters appropriate for judicial determination." The affidavits filed by appellees confirm that
23 "1 have for a long time been interested in political activities.
Both before and since my employment in the United States Mint, I
have taken an active part in political campaigns and political management. In the 28th Ward, 7th Division in the City of Philadelphia
I am and have been a Ward Executive Committeeman. In that position I haveon many occasions taken an active part in political management and political campaigns. I have visited the residents of my
Ward and solicited them to support my party and its candidates; I
have acted as a watcher at the polls; I have contributed money to
help pay its expenses; I have circulated campaign literature, placed
banners and posters in public places, distributed leaflets, assisted in
organizing political rallies and assemblies, and have done any and all
acts which were asked of me in my capacity as a Ward Executive
Committeeman. I have engaged in these activities both before and
after my employment in the United States Mint. I intend to continue
to engage in these activities on my own time as a private citizen,
openly, freely, and without concealment.
"However, I have been served with a proposed order of the United
States Civil Service Commission, dated January 12, 1944, which
advises me that because of the political activities mentioned above,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Poole has been charged by the Commission with political
activity and a proposed order for his removal from his
position adopted subject to his right under Commission
procedure to reply to the charges and to present further
evidence in refutation." We proceed to consider the controversy over constitutional power at issue between Poole
and the Commission as defined by the charge and preliminary finding upon one side and the admissions of Poole's
affidavit upon the other. Our determinaion is limited to
those facts. This proceeding so limited meets the requirements of defined rights and a definite threat to interfere with a possessor of the menaced rights by a penalty
for an act done in violation of the claimed restraint. 25
and for no other reason, 'it is, .

. .,

the opinion of this Commission

that George P. Poole, an employee of the United States Mint at
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has been guilty of political activity in
violation of Section 1, Civil Service Rule I' and that unless I can refute
the charges that I have engaged in political activity, I will be dismissed
from my position as a Roller in the United States Mint at Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania."
The tentative charge and finding reads:
I.
"It is charged: That ...
"The said' George P. Pooe held the political party office of Democratic Ward Executive Committeeman in the City of Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.
"The said George P. Poole was politically active by aiding and assisting the Democratic Party in the capacity of worker at the polls on
general election day, November 5,1940, and assisted in the distribution
of funds in paying party workers for their services on general election
day, November 5, 1940."
III.
"The above described activity constitutes taking an active part in
political management and in a political campaign in contravention of
Section 1, Civil Service Rule I, and the regulations adopted by the
Commissioners thereunder."
25Maryland Casualty Co. v. Pacific Coal & Oil Co., 312 U. S.270,
273; Altvater v. Freeman, 319 U. S.359, 364; Nashville, C. & St. L.
Ry. v. Wallace, 288 U. S.249, 260.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

93

Opinion of the Court.

Because we conclude hereinafter that the prohibition of
§ 9 of the Hatch Act and Civil Service Rule 1, see notes
2 and 6 above, are valid, it is unnecessary to consider, as
this is a declaratory judgment action, whether or not this
appellant sufficiently alleges that an irreparable injury to
him would result from his removal from his position."
Nor need we inquire whether or not a court of equity would
enforce by injunction an judgment declaring rights."
Since Poole admits that he violated the rule against
political activity and that removal from office is therefore mandatory under the act, there is no question as to
the exhaustion of administrative remedies. The act provides no administrative or statutory review for the order
of the Civil Service Commission. Compare Stark v. Wickard, 321 U. S. 288, 306-10; Macauley v. Waterman S. S.
Corporation, 327 U. S. 540. As no prior proceeding, offering an effective remedy or otherwise, is pending in the
courts, there is no problem of judicial discretion as to
whether to take cognizance of this case. Brilihart v. Excess Insurance Co., 316 U. S. 491, 496-97, dissent at 500;
Larson v. General Motors Corporation, 134 F. 2d 450,
453. Under such circumstances, we see no reason why a
declaratory judgment action, even though constitutional
issues are involved, does not lie. See Rules of Civil Proc edure, Rule 57. Steele v,. Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Co., 323 U. S. 192, 197, 207; Tunstall v. Brotherhood of
26

28 U. S. C. § 400: "In cases of actual controversy except with

respect to Federal taxes the courts of the United States shall have
power upon petition, declaration, complaint, or other appropriate
pleadings to declare rights and other legal relations of any interested
party petitioning for such declaration, whether or not further relief
is or could be prayed, and such declaration shall have the force and
effect of a final judgment or decree arid be reViewable as such."
Aetna Life Insurance Go.v. Haworth, 300 U. S. 227, 241; Nashville,
C. & St. L. Ry. v. Wallace, 288 U: S.249, 264.
2 See White v. Berry, 171 U. S. 366, 377; In re Sawyer, 124 U. S.
200, 212.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Locomotive Firemen & Enginemen, 323 U. S. 210, 212,
et seq.*
Fo 4th. This brings us to consider the narrow but importan point involved in Poole's situation 8 Poole's
stated offense is taking an "active part in political management or in political campaigns." He was a ward executive committeeman of a political party and was politically
active on election day as a worker at the polls and a paymaster for the services of other party workers. The issue
for decision and the only one we decide is whether such a
breach of the Hatch Act and Rule 1 of the Commission
can, without violating the Constitution, be made the basis
for disciplinary action.
When the issue is thusnarrowed, the interference with
free expression is seen in better proportion as compared.
with the requirements of orderly management of administrative personnel. Only while the *employee is politically active, in the sense of Rule 1, must he withhold
expression of opinion on public subjects. See note 6. We
assume that Mr. Poole would be expected to comment
publicly as committeeman on political matters, so that
indirectly there is an attenuated interference: We accept
appellants' contention that 'the nature of political rights
reserved to the people by the Ninth and Tenth Amendments are involved. The right claimed as inviolate may
be stated as the right of a citizen to act as a party official
or worker to further his own political views. Thus -we
*In Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 4f, a declaratory judgment proceeding, p. 46, prior to the adoption of Rule .57, a
proceeding before the N. L. R. B. was required. There is statutory
judicial review from that Board's decisions, however.
2 We agree with the Government that the complaint does not fail
to state a cause of action against the Commission because it seeks
relief against the Commission's action under the Hatch Act instead
of- Rule I of the Commission. So far as Poole's controversy is
concerned, the kct and the rule are the same.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL. 95
75

Opinion of the Court.

have a measure of interference by the Hatch Act and the
Rules with what otherwise would be the freedom of
the civil servant under the First, Ninth and Tenth
Amendments. And, if we look upon due process as a
guarantee of freedom in those fields, there is a corresponding impairment of that right under the Fifth Amendment. Appellants' objections under the Amendments are
basically the same.
We do not find persuasion in appellants' argument that
such activities during free time are not subject to regulation even though admittedly political activities cannot be
indulged in during working hours.' The influence of political activity by government employees, if evil in its
effects on the service, the employees or people dealing with
them, is hardly less so because that activity takes place
after hours. Of course, the question of the need for this
regulation is for other branches of government rather than
the courts. Our duty in this case ends if the Hatch Act
provision under examination is constitutional.
Of course, it is accepted constitutional doctrine that
these fundamental human rights-are not absolutes. The
requirements of residence and age must be met. The
essential rights of the First Axiiendment in some instances
are subject to the elemental need for order without which
the guarantees of civil rights to others would be a mockery.'
The powers granted by the Constitution to the
2 In labor-management relationships, it has been recognized by this
Court that circumstances might justify the prohibition by employers of
union activity by employees on the employer's property, even though
carried out during non-working hours. Republic Aviation Corp. v.
National Labor Relations Board, 324 U. S. 793, 803.
30 Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 571; Cantwell v.
Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 304, 310; Schneider v. State., 308 U. S. 147,
165; De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 364; Cox v. New Hampshire,
312 U. S. 569, 574; Prince v. Massachusetts, 321. U. S. 158, 169;
Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. '145.

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Federal Government are subtracted from the totality of
sovereignty originally in the states and the people. Therefore, when objection is made that the exercise of a federal
power infringes -upon rights reserved by the Ninth and
Tenth Amendments, the inquiry must be directed toward
the granted power under which the action of the Union
was taken. If granted power is found, necessarily the
objection of invasion of those rights, reserved by the Ninth
and Tenth Amendments, must fail. Again this Court
must balance the extent of' the guarantees of freedom
against a congressional enactment to protect a democratic
society against the supposed evil of political partisanship
by classified employees of government.
As pointed out hereinbefore in this opinion, the practice
of excluding classified employees from party offices and
personal political activity at the polls has been in effect
for several decades. Some incidents similar to those that
are under examination here have been before this Court
and the prohibition against certain types of political activity by officeholders has been upheld. The leading case
was decided in 1882. Ex parte Curtis, 106 U. S. 371.
There a subordinate United States employee was ihdicted
for violation of an act that forbade employees who were not
appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate
from giving or receiving money for political purposes from
or to other employees of the government on penalty of discharge and criminal punishment. Curtis urged that the
statute was unconstitutional. This Court upheld the fight
of Congress to punish the infraction of this law. The decisive principle was the power of Congress, within reasonable limits, to regulate. so far as it might deem necessary,
the political conduct of its employees. A list of prohibitions against acts by public officials that are permitted to
other citizens was given. This Court said, p. 373:
"The evident purpose of Congress in all this class
of enactments has been to promote efficiency and

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

97

Opinion of the Court.

integrity in the discharge of official duties, and to
maintain proper discipline in the public service.
Clearly such a purpose is within the just scope of
legislative power, and it is not easy to see why the act
now under consideration does not come fairly within
the legitimate means to such an end."
The right to contribute money through fellow employees
to advance the contributor's political theories was held not
to be protected by any constitutional provision. It was
held subject to regulation. A dissent by Mr. Justice Bradley emphasized the broad basis of the Court's opinion.
He contended that a citizen's right to promote his political
views could not be so restricted merely because he was an
official of government.'
No other member of the Court joined in this dissent.
The conclusion of the Court, that there was no constitutional bar to regulation of such financial contributions of
public servants as distinguished from the exercise of political privileges such as the ballot, has found acceptance in
the. subsequent practice of Congress and the growth of the
principle of required political neutrality for classified public servants as a sound element for efficiency. " The con31 106 U. S. 376-77: ". . . every citizen having the proper qualifications has the right to accept office, and to be a candidate therefor.
This is a fundamental right of which the legislature cannot deprive
the citizen, nor clog its exercise with conditions that are. repugnant to
his other fundamental rights. Such a condition I regard that imposed
by the law in question to b . It prevents the citizen from co-operating
with other citizens of his own choice in the promotion of his political

views ....

The whole thing seems to me absurd.

Neither men's

mouths nor their purses can be constitutionally ted upin that way."
a Kaplan, Political Neutrality of the Civil Service, 1 Pub. Pers.
Rev. 10; White, Civil Service in the Modern State (1930); Mosher
and Kingsley, Public Personnel Administration (1936); White, Government Career Service (1935); Meriam, Public Personnel Problems
(1938).
Military personnel is restricted in much the same manner. Army*

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

viction that an actively partisan governmental personnel
threatens good administration has deepened since Ex parte
Curtis. Congress recognizes danger to the service in that
political rather than official effort may earn advancement
and to the public in that governmental favor may be channeled through political connections."3
In United States v. Wurzbach, 280 U. S. 396, the doctrine of legislative power over actions of governmental
officials was held valid when extended to members of Congress. The members of Congress were prohibited from
receiving contributibns for "any political purpose whatever". from any other federal employees. Private citizens
were not affected. The argument of unconstitutionality
because of interference with the political rights of a citizen
by that time was dismissed in a sentence. Compare
United States v. Thayer, 209 U. S. 39.
The provisions of § 9 of the Hatch Act and the Civil
Service Rule 1 are not dissimilar in purpose from the
statutes against political contributions of money. The
prohibitions now under discussion are directed at political
contributions of energy by government employees.
Regulations No. 600-10, p. 5: "6. Political activities of persons in
military service.-a. General.-No member of the Army, while on
active duty, will use his official authority or influence for the purpose
of interfering with an election or affecting the course or outcome
thereof. Such persons, while on active duty, retain the right to vote,
to express their opinions privately and informally on all political subjects and candidates, and to become candidates for public office as
permitted in these regulations. They will not be permitted to participate in any way in political management or political campaigns."
An interesting discussion of the general subject of interference by
federal officers in elections will be found in the Appendix to the Congressional Globe, Dec. 3, 1838-Feb. 19, 1839, pp. 157, 160 and 409,
411.
3 86 Cong. Rec. 2338-2367, 2426-2442, 2696-2723, 2920-2963, 29692987, 9360-9380, 9426-9432, 9434-9463.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

99

Opinion of the -Court.

These contributions, too, have a long background of disapproval.' Congress and the President are responsible
for an efficient public service. If, in their judgment, efficiency may be best obtained by prohibiting active participation by classified, employees in politics as party officers
or workers, we see no constitutional objection.1
Another Congress may determine that, on the whole,
limitations on active political management by federal
personnel are unwise. The .teaching of experience has
evidently led Congress to enact the Hatch Act provisions.
To declare that the present supposed evilt of political
activity are beyond the power of Congress to redress would
leave the nation impotent to deal with what many sincere
men believe is a material threat to the democratic system.
Congress is not politically naive or regardless of public
welfare or that of the employees. It leaves untouched
full participation by employees in political decisions at
the ballot box and forbids only the partisan activity of
federal personnel deemed offensive to efficiency. With
that limitation only, employees may make their contributions to public affairs or protect their own interests,
as before the passage of the Act.
14 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents (1897), Harrison, vol. IV, p. 52; id., Hayes, vol. VII, pp. 450-51. See note 4,
8upra.
When in 1891 New Bedford, Mass., under a rule removed a policeman for political activity, an opinion by. Mr. Justice, then Judge,
Holmes disposed summarily4of McAuliffe's contention that the rule
invaded his right to expresrhis political opinion with the epigram,
"The' petitioner may have a constitutional right to talk politics, but
he has no constitutional right to be a policeman." McAuliffe v. New
Bedford, 155 Mass. 216, 220,29 N. E. 517.
: Several states have similar provisions. Ala. Code (1940), Tit. 12,
§ 157; Conn. Gen. Stat. (Supp. 1939), c. 105a § 698e; Ohio Gen. Code
(Page, 1937), §486-23; Pa. Stat. Ann. (Purdon, 1942), Tit. 71,
§ 741.904; R. I. Acts & Resolves, 1939, p. 118.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

The argument that political neutrality is not indispensable to a merit system for federal employees may be
accepted. But because it is not indispensable does not
mean that it is not desirable or permissible. Modern
American politics involves organized political parties.
Many classifications of government employees have been
accustomed to work in politics--national, state and localas a matter of principle or to assure their tenure. Congress may reasonably desire to limit party activity of
federal employees so as to avoid a tendency toward a oneparty system.- It may have considered that parties would
be more truly devoted to the public welfare if public servants were not overactive politically.
Appellants urge that federal employees are protected
by the Bill of Rights and that Congress may not "enact
a regulation providing that no Republican, Jew or Negro
shall be appointed to federal office, or that no federal
employee shall attend Mass or take any active part in
missionary work." None would deny such limitations on
congressional power but, because there are some limitations, it does not follow that a prohibition against acting
as ward leader or worker at the polls is invalid. A reading
of the Act and Rule 1, notes 2 and 6, supra, together with
the Commission's determination I shows the wide range of
public activities with which there is no interference by the
legislation. It is only partisan political activity that is
interdicted. It is active participation in political management and political campaigns. Expressions, public or private, on public affairs, personalities and matters of public
interest, not An objective of party action, are unrestricted
by law so long as the government'employee does not direct
his activities toward party success.
It is urged, however, that Congress has gone further
36 United States Civil Service Commission, Political Activity and
Political Assessments, Form 1236, January 1944.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

101

Opinion of the Court.

than necessary in prohibiting political activity to all types
of classified employees. It is pointed out by appellants
"that the impartiality of many of these is a matter of comSplete indifference to the effective performance" of their
duties."' Mr. Poole would appear to be a good illustration for appellants' argument. The complaint states that
he is a roller in the mint. We take it this is a job calling
for the qualities of a skilled mechanic and that it does
not involve contact with the ptiblic. Nevertheless, if in
free time he is engaged in political activity, Congress-may
have concluded that the activity may promote or retard
his advancement or preferment with his superiors. Congress may have thought that government employees are
handy elements for leaders in political policy to use in
building a political machine. For regulation of employees
it is not necessary that the act regulated be anything more
than an- act.reasonably deemed by Congress to interfere
with the efficiency of the public service. There are hundreds of thousands of United States employees with positions no more influential upon policy determination than
that of Mr. Poole. Evidently what Congress feared was
the cumulative effect on employee. morale of political
activity by all employees who could 6 e induced to participate actively. It does not seem. to us an unconstitutional
basis for legislation.
"In the light of these wide variations in duties and responsibility
for public policy and its fair enforcement, a restriction reasonably
designed to preserve the impartiality of a Collector of the Revenue, a
U. S. Marshal, an JF. B. I. or Treasury agent may be utterly absurd
and unjustified when applied to a lens grinder, a stock clerk, a machinist, or an elevator operator. It is therefore impossible both to observe
reasonable regard for constitutional rights and to enact sweeping
prohibitions as to political rights applicable to all Federal employees
whatever the nature of their duties. In dealing with so complicated
and varied a subject matter, a hatchet cannot readily be substituted
for a scalpel."

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

There is a suggestion that administrative workers nay
be barred, constitutionally, from political management
and politichl campaigns while the industrial workers may
Sot be barred, constitutionally, without an act "narrowly
and selectively drawn to define 'and punish the specific
conduct." A ready answer, it seems to us. lies in the fact
that the prohibition of § 9 (a) of the Hatch Act "applies
without: discrimination to all employees whether industrial
or administrative" and that the Civil Service Rules,. by
§ 15 made a part of the Hatch Act, makes clear that industrial workers are covered in the prohibition again~st
political activity. Congress' has determined that the
presence of government employees, whether industrial or
administrative, in the ranks of political party workers is
bad. Whatever differences there may be between administrative employees of the government and industrial
workers in its employ are differences in detail so far as the
constitutional power under review is concerned. Whether
there are such differences and what weight to attach to
them, are all matters of detail for Congress. We do not
know whether the number of federal employees will expand or contract; whether the need for regulation of their
political activities will increase or diminish. The use of
the constitutional power of regulation is for Congress,
not for the courts.
We have said that Congress may regulate the political
conduct of government employees "within reasonable
limits," even though the regulation trenches to some extent upon unfettered political action. The determination
of the extent to which political activities of governmental
employees shall be regulated lies primarily with Congress.
Courts will interfere only when such regulation passes
beyond the generally existing conception of governmental
power. That conception develops from practice, history,
and changing educational, social and economic conditions.
The regulation of such activities as Poole carried on has'

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

103

Opinion of the Court.

the approval of long practice by the Commission, court
decisions upon similar problems and a large body of informed public opinion. Congress and the administrative
agencies have authority over the discipline and efficiency
of the public serivice. When actions of civil servants in
the judgment of Congress menace the integrity and the
competency of the service, legislation to forestall such
danger and adequate to maintain its usefulness is required.
The Hatch Act is the answer of Congress to this need. We
cannot say with such a background that these restrictions
are unconstitutional.
Section 15 of the Hatch Act, note 3 above, defines an
active part in political management or political campaigns
as the same activities that the Uniited States Civil Service
Commission has determined to be prohibited to classified
civil service employees by the provisions of the Civil Service Rules when § 15 took effect July 19, 1940. 54 Stat. 767.
The activities of Mr. Poole, as ward executive committeeman and a worker at the polls, obviously fall within-the
prohibitions of § 9 of the Hatch Act against taking an
active part in political management and political campaigns. They are also covered by the prior determinations of the Commission.'
We need to examine no furmUnited States Civil Service Commission, Political Activity and
Political Assessments, Form 1236, September 1939:
"15. Committees.-Service on or for any political committee or
similar organization is prohibited....

"20. Activity at the polls and for candidates."It is the duty of an employee to avoid any offensive activity at
primary and regular elections. He must refrain from soliciting votes,
assisting yoters to mark ballots, helping to get out the voters on registration and election days, acting as the accredited checker, watcher,
or challenger of any party or faction, assisting in counting the vote,
or engaging in anN" other activity at the polls except the marking and
depositing of his own ballot."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

330 U. S.

ther at this time into the validity of the definition of
political activity and § 15.1
The judgment of the District Court is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

sons stated by MR*

dissents as to Poole for the reaHe does not pass

JUSTICE BLACK.

upon the constitutional questions presented by the other
appellants for the reason that he feels the controversy as
to them is not yet appropriate for the discretionary exercise of declaratory judgment jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

The terms of the Act of August 24, 1937, 50 Stat. 751,
752, 28 U. S. C. § 380a, in the light of its history, have convinced me that this case should be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
In that Act, Congress put a limit to the time within
which a case may be docketed here after an appeal below
is allowed. Such a limitation by Congress is in the exercise of its power to regulate the appellate jurisdiction of
this Court. It is not within our power to enlarge a limit
fixed by Congress unless Congress itself gave the Court
such dispensing power.
In allowing a direct appeal to this Court from a district
court "under such rules as may-be prescribed," Congress
did not mean to give this Court power to defeat the considerations of speed in the disposition of controversies
involving the constitutionality of federal legislation which
led to the specific provision that a case be docketed
"within sixty days from the time such appeal is allowed."
United States v. Wurzbach, 280 U. S. 396,399.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

105

BLACK, J., dissenting.

No rule of this Court could disregard the limitations for
perfecting an appeal made by Congress. Nor does Rule
47, which was the rule responsive to the Act of August
24, 1937, purport to do so. It merely reasserts the statutory requirement that in a. case like this"The record shall
be made up and the case docketed in this court within sixty
days from the time the appeal is allowed." The introductory part of Rule 47, whereby the Rules of this Court
regulating appellate procedure in other cases are adopted
"as far as may be," has ample scope for operation without
qualifying the necessity for speedy perfection of an appeal
in cases involving constitutionality, so that the validity
of acts of Congress may not remain in doubt through
protracted litigation. This was a deep concern of Congress and its reason for imposing the sixty-day limitation
for perfecting appeals in this class of cases.
But under compulsion of the Court's assumption of
jurisdiction, I reach the merits and join in MR. JUSTICE
REED'S opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.

The sentence in § 9 of the statute, here upheld, makes
it unlawful for any person employed in the executive
branch of the Federal Government, with minor numerical
exceptions,1 to "take any active part in political management or in political campaigns." The punishment pro1 Those excepted are "a part-time officer or part-time employee
without compensation or with nominal compensation serving in connection with the existing war effort," commonly designated as
"Dollar-a-year men" and "(1) the President and Vice President of
the United States; '(2) persons whose compensation is paid from the
appropriation for the office of the President; (3) heads and assistant
heads of executive departments; (4) officers who are appointed
by*the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
and who determine policies to be pursued by the United States in its
relations with foreign powers or in the Nation-wide administration of
Federal laws." § 9a; 18 U. S. C. 61h (a), as amended.

.106

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

vided is immediate discharge and a permanent ban against
reemployment in the same position.! The number of
federal employees thus barred from political action is
approximately three million. Section 12 of the same Act
affects the participation in political campaigns of many
thousands of state employees.' No one of all these millions of citizens can, without violating this law, "take any
active part" in any campaign for a cause or for a candidate
if the cause or candidate is "specifically identified with any
National or State political party." Since under our com2 "Any

person violating the provisions of this section shall be immediately removed from the position or office held by him, and thereafter no part of the funds appropriated by any Act of Congress for
such position or office shall be used to pay the compensation of such
person." . §9b; 18 U. S. C. 61h (b).
3 All state employees who work for any state agency financed in
whole or in part by federal grants or loans are affected by the Act.
Section l2a; 18 U. S. C. 611.
In 1945 the Federal Government paid S865,729,569.15 in grants in
aid to states, Annual Report of the Secretary of the Treasury: on the
State of the Financ's, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945 (1946)
714, and $688,506,157.11 in direct payments to states for -the social
security program, public -roads and emergency maternity and infant
care. Id. at 718. Grants to and expenditures within states, providing direct relief, work relief, and other aid such as the Agricultural
Adjustment Program, National Housing'Agency annual contributions,
etc., totaled $1,353,427,735.68. Id. at 721.
In July 1946 the number of persons employed by state and local
governments totaled approximately 2,754,000 of whom 641,000 were
employed.in schools and 2,114,000 were non-school employees. Public
Employment in July, 1946, Government Employment, Dept: of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, Vol. 7, No. 3 (1946) 1. A breakdown
of county employees is a sample which suggests the proportion state
and local whose salaries may be paid in whole or in part by federal
funds thus coming under the provisions of this Act. Of a total of
310,000 non-schobl county employees in the entire country, 77,000
were employed in highway departments; 4,700 in natural resources;
12,600 in'health and senitation; 40,000 in hospitals; 22,000 in public
welfare. County Emtolrnent in 1944, Government Employment,
op cit. supra,Vol. 5, No. 2 (1944) 7.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

BLACK,

107

J., dissenting.

mon political practices most causes and candidates are
espoused by political parties, the result is that, because
they are paid out of the public treasury, all these citizens
who engage in public work can take no really effective
part in campaigns that may bring about changes in their
lives, their fortunes, and their happiness.'
We are not left in doubt as to how numerous and varied
are the "activities" prohibited. For § 15 sweepingly
describes them as "the same activities . . . as the United
States Civil Service Commission has heretofore determined are at the time this section takes effect prohibited
on the part of employees in the classified civil service of
the United States . . . ." Along with the vague and
uncertain prior prohibitions of the Commission, are these
things which the Commission had clearly prohibited:
serving as an election officer; publicly expressing political views at a party caucus or political gathering for or
against any candidate or cause identified with a party;
4 There are minor exceptions.
One concession only is granted those
federal employees who live "in the immediate vicinity of the National
Capital in the States of Maryland and Virginia or in municipalities
the majority of whose voters are employed by the Government of the
United States ... " The Civil Service Commission may "permit"
them to participate in campaigns involving the "municipality or political subdivision" in which they reside "to the extent the Commission
deems to be in [their] domestic interest . . . ." Section 16; 18
U. S. C. 61p. A general exception permits participation (1) in an
"election and the preceding campaign if none of the candidates is to be
nominated or elected .. .as representing a [political] party . . .
(2) in connection with any question which is not specifically identified
with any National or State political party. For the purposes of this
section, questions relating to constitutional amendments, referendums,
approval of municipal ordinances, and otheri of a similar character,
shall not be deemed to be specifically identified with any National or
State political party." § 18, 18 U. S. C. § 61r. The importance and
number of political issues thus excepted, e. g. Sunday movies, local
school bond issues, location of local parks, election of local officials in
whom no political party is interested, are obviously very small.

OCTOBER' TERM, 1946.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

soliciting votes for a party or candidate; participating in
a political parade; writing for publication or publishing
any letter or article, signed or unsigned, in favor of or
against any political party, candidate, or faction; initiating, or canvassing for signatures on, community petitions
or petitions to Congress.
In view of these prohibitions, it is little consolation
to employees that the Act contradictorily says that they
may "express their opinions on all political subjects and
candidates." For this permission to "express their opinions" is, the Commission. has rightly said, "subject to
the prohibition that employees may not take any active
part in . . . political campaigns." The hopeless contradiction between this privilege of an employee to talk
and the prohibition against his talking stands out in
the Commission's further warning to all employees that
they can express their opinions publicly, but "Public expression of opinion in such a way as to constitute taking an
active part in political management or in political campaigns is accordingly prohibited." Thus, whatever opinion§ employees may dare to express, even secretly, must
be at their peril. They cannot know what particular
expressions may be reported to the Commission and held
by it to be a sufficient political activity to cost them their
jobs. Their peril is all the greater because of another
warning by the Commission that "Employees are . . .
accountable for political activity by persons other than
themselves, including wives or husbands, if, in fact, the
employees are thus accomplishing by collusion and indirection what they may not lawfully do directly and
openly." Thus are the families of public employees
stripped of their freedom of political action. The result
is that the sum of political privilege left to'governmen'tand
state employees, and their families, to take part in political
campaigns seems to be this: They may vote in silence;
they may carefully and quietly express a political view at

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

BLACK,

109

J., dissenting.

their peril; and they may become "spectators" (this is the
Commission's word) at campaign gatherings, though it
may be highly dangerous for them to "second a motion"
or let it be known that they agree or disagree with a
speaker.
All of the petitioners here challenge the constitutional
..validity of that sentence of § 9 of the statute which prohibits all federal employees from taking "any active part
in political management or in political campaigns" and
which by reference only sweeps under this prohibition
all then-existing civil service regulations. The charge
is that this provision, thus supplemented by the regulations, violates the First Amendment by prohibiting
freedom of press, speech, and assembly; that it violates
the Fifth Amendment because it effects an arbitrary
and gross discrimination between government employees
covered and those exempted; that it also violates the Fifth
Amendment because it is so vague and indefinite as to
prohibit lawful activities as well as activities which are
properly made unlawful by other provisions of law. Thus,
these attacks of Poole and all the other petitioners are
identical, namely, that the provision is unconstitutional
on its face. The Court decides this question against
Poole after holding that his case presents a justiciable
controversy. I think Poole's challenge to the constitutionality of the provision should be sustained. And since
I agree with MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS that all the petitioners'
complaints state a case or controversy, and show threats
of imminent irreparable damages, I think that the contention that the challenged provision is unconstitutional
on its face should be sustained as to all of them.
Had this measure deprived five million farmers or a
million businessmen of all right to participate in elections,
because Congress thought that federal farm or business
subsidies might prompt some of them to exercise, or be
susceptible to, a corrupting influence on politics or gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

ernment, I would not sustain such an Act on the ground
that it could be interpreted so as to apply only to some
of them. Certainly laws which restrict the liberties guaranteed by the First Ameidment should be narrowly drawn
to meet the evil aimed at and to affect only the minimum
number of people inperatively necessary to prevent a
grave and imminent danger to the public.5 Furthermore,
what federal employees can or cannot do, consistently
with the various civil service regulations, rules, warnings,
etc., is a matter of so great uncertainty that no person can
even make an intelligent guess. This was demonstrated
by the government's briefs and ,oral arguments in this
case. I would hold that the provision here attacked is
too broad, ambiguous, and uncertain in its consequences
to be made the basis of removing deserving employees
from their jobs. See dissenting opinion, Williams v.
North Carolina, 325 U. S. 226, 261, 276-278 and cases
collected, note 16.
The right to vote and privately to express an opinion
on political matters, important though they be, are but
parts of the :broad freedoms which our Constitution has
provided as the bulwark of our free political institutions.
Popular government, to be effective, must permit and
encourage much wider political activity by all fhe people.'
Real popular government means "that,men may speak as
they think on matters vital to them and that falsehoods
may be exposed through the processes of education and
discussion . . . Those who won our independence had
confidence in the power of free and fearless reasoning and
communication of ideas to discover,.and spread political
Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U.,S. 88; Marsh v. Alabana, 326 U. S.
501; Bridges v. California,314 U. S.252, 260, 265.
oSome states require that employers pay their employees for the
time they spend away from work while voting. See, People v. Ford
Motor Co., 271 App. Div. 141, 63 N. Y. S. 2d 697; Note, Pay While
Voting, 47 Col. L. Rev. 135 (1947).

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

BLACK,

111

J., dissenting.

and economic truth." Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S.
88, 95. Legislation which muzzles several million citizens
threatens popular government., not only because it injures
the individuals muzzled, but also because of its harmful
effect on the body politic in depriving it of the political
participation and interest of such a large segment of our
citizens. Forcing public employees to contribute money
and influence can well be proscribed in the interest of
"clean politics" and public administration. But I think
the Constitution prohibits legislation which prevents millions of citizens from contributing their arguments, complaints, and suggestions to the political debates which are
-the essence of our democracy; prevents them from en'gaging in organizational activity to urge others to vote and
take an interest in political affairs; bars them from performing the interested citizen's duty of insuring that his
and his fellow citizens' votes are counted. Such drastic
limitations on the right of all the people to express political
opinions and take political action would be inconsistent
with the First Amendment's guaranty of freedom of
speech, press, assembly, and petition. And it would violate, or come dangerously close to violating, Article I and
the Seventeenth Amendment of the Constitution, which
protect the right of the people to vote for their Congressmen and their United States Senators and to have their
votes counted. See Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651;
United States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383; United States v.
Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 314.
There is nothing about federal and state employees as
a class which justifies depriving them or society of the
benefits of their participation in public affairs. They, like
other citizens, pay taxes and serve their country in peace
and in war. The taxes they pay and the wars in which
they fight are determined by the elected spokesmen of
all the people. They come from the same homes, communities, schools, churches, and colleges as do the other

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

citizens. I think the Constitution guarantees to them
the same right that other groups of good citizens have
to engage in activities which decide who their elected representatives shall be.
No statute of Congress has ever before attempted so
drastically to stifle the spoken and written political utteranc~s and lawful political activities of federal and state
employees as a class. The nearest approach was the Civil
Service Act of 1883, 22 Stat. 403-4, which authorized the
President to promulgate rules so that, among other things,
no government employee should "use his official authority
or influence to coerce the political action of any person or
body." Ia 1907, the Civil Service Commission, purporting to act under authority of the 1883 Act, did, as the Court
points out, prohibit civil service employees from taking
"an active part in political management or in political
campaigns." But this Court has not approved the statutory power of the Commission to promulgate such a rule,
nor has it ever exprqssly or by implication approved the
constitutional validity of any such sweeping abridgement
of the right of freedom of expression. Neither Ex parte
Curtis, 106 U. S.371, nor United States v. Wurzbach, 280
U. S.396, lend the slightest support to the present statute.
Both of these cases related to statutes which did no more
than limit the right of employees to collect money from
other employees- for political purposes. Indeed, the
Curtis decision seems implicitly to have rested on the
assumption that many political activities of government
employees, beyond merely voting and speaking secretly,
would not, and could not under the Constitution, be impaired by the legislation there at issue. Ex parte Curtis,
supra,at 375.
It is argued that it is in the interest of clean politics to
suppress political activities of federal and state employees.
It would hardly seem to be imperative to muzzle millions

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

BLACK,

113

J., dissenting.

of citizens because some of them, if left their constitutional
freedoms, might corrupt the political process. All political corruption is not traceable to state and federal employees. Therefore, it is possible that other groups may
later be compelled to sacrifice their right to participate
in political activities for the protection of the purity of
the Government of which they are a part.
It may be true, as contended, that some higher employees, unless restrained, might coerce their subordinates
or that government employees might use their official position to coerce other citizens. But is such a possibility of
coercion of a subordinate by his employer limited to govThe same
ernmental employer-employee relationships?
quality of argument would support a law to suppress the
political freedom of all employees of private employers,
and particularly of employers who borrow money or draw
subsidies from the Government. Nor does it seem plausible that all of the millions of public employees whose
rights to free expression are here stifled might, if they
participate in elections, coerce other citizens not employed
by the Government or the States. Poole, one of the petitioners here, is a roller in a United States mint. His
job is about on a par in terms of political influence with
that of most other state, federal, and private business employees. Such jobs generally do not give such employees
who hold them sufficient authority to enable them to wield
a dangerous or coercive influence on the political world.
If the possibility exists that some other public employees
may, by reason of their more influential positions, coerce
other public employees or other citizens,.laws can be drawn
to*punish the coercers.8 It hardly seems consistent with
TMany states have laws protecting non-government employees from
employer interference with their voting independence.
Pay While Voting, 47 Col. L. Rev. 135, 136, note 9 (1947).
s See note 7, supra.

See Note,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

our system of equal justice to all to suppress the political
and speaking freedom of millions of good citizens because a
few bad citizens might engage in coercion.'
It may also be true, as contended, that if public employees are permitted to exercise a full freedom to express
their views in political campaigns, some public officials
will discharge some employees and grant promotion to
others on a political rather than on a merit basis. For
the same reasons other public officials, occupying positions
of influence, may use their influence to have their own
political supporters appointed or promoted. But here
again, if the practice of making ,discharges, promotions or
recommendations for promotions on a political basis is
so great an evil as to require legislation, the law could
punish those public officials who engage in the practice.
To punish millions of employees and to deprive the nation
of their contribution to public affairs, in order to remove
temptatiol from a proportionately small number of public
officials, eems at the least to be a novel method of suppressing what is thought 'to be an evil practice.
Our, political system, different from many others, rests,
on tl~e foundation of a belief in rule by the people-not
some, but all the people. Education has been fostered
better to fit people for self-expression and good citizenship.
In a country whose people elect their leaders and decide
grea't public issues, the voice of none should be suppressed-at least such is the assumption of the First
Amendment. That Amendment, unless I misunderstand
its meaning, includes a command that the Government
must, in order to promote its own interest, leave the people
at liberty to speak their own thoughts about government,
advocate their own favored governmental causes, and work
for their own political candidates and parties.
'The Act, in fact, leaves free the higher officials whose positions
give them the actual power to coerce subordinates and other citizens
not employed by the Government. § 9a; 18 U.S. C. 61h.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

DOUGLAS,

115

J., dissenting in part.

The section of the Act here held valid reduces the constitutionally protected liberty of several million citizens
to less than a shadow of its substance. It relegates millions of federal, state, and municipal employees.to the
role of mere spectators of events upon which hinge the
safety and welfare of all the people, including public employees. It removes a sizable proportion of our electorate
from full participation in affairs destined to mould the
fortunes of the nation. It makes honest participation
in essential political activities an offense punishable by
proscription from public employment. It endows a governmental board with the awesome power to censor the
thoughts, expressions, and activities of law-abiding citizens in the field of free expression, from which no person
should be barred by a government which boasts that it is
a government of, for, and by the people-all the people.
Laudable as its purpose may be, it seems to me to hack at
the roots of a Government by the people themselves; and
consequently I cannot agree to sustain its validity.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting in part.
I disagree with the Court on two of the four matters
decided.
First. There are twelve individual appellants here asking for an adjudication of their rights.' The Court passes
on the claim of only one of them, Poole. It declines to
pass on the claims of the other eleven on the ground that
'Elkin, Senior Economic Statistician, Railroad Retirement Board;
Abelson, Associate Financial Analyst, Social Security Board; Phillips,
Labor Economist, War Shipping Administration; Mitchell, Wage Analyst, National War Labor Board; Fagan, Area Director, War Manpower Commission; Winegar, Senior Officer, Bureau of Prisons;
Hindin, Procedural Assistant, Federal Security Agency; .Rieck,Stock
Clerk, Veterans Administration; Poole, Roller, United States Mint;
Shane, Lens Grinder, Frankford Arsenal; Webeir, Machinist Specialist, Frankford Arsenal; Tempest, Electric Welder, Philadelphia
Navy Yard.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

they do not present justiciable cases or controversies.
With this conclusion I cannot agree.
It is clear that the declaratory judgment procedure is
available in the federal courts only in cases involving
actual controversies and may not be used to obtain an
advisory opinion in a controversy not yet arisen. Coffman v. Breeze Corporations,323 U. S. 316, 324-325, and
cases cited. The requirement of an "actual controversy,"
which is written into the statute (Judicial Code § 274d,
28 U. S. C. § 400) and has its roots in the Constitution
(Article III, § 2), seems to me to be fully met here.
What these appellants propose to do. is plain enough.
If they do what, they propose to do, it is clear that they
will be discharged from their positions. The analysis of
the situation by the District Court seems to me to be
accurate and conclusive:
"The mere existence of the statute, saying that they
shall not engage in political activity, the penalty in
the statute that they shall be dismissed if they do,
and the warning addressed to them by the Civil Service Commission in their posters certainly prevent
them from engaging in such activity, if the statute
is constitutional. If the statute is unconstitutional,
they are being prevented from things which they have
the right to do. If the statute is constitutional, it
is mandatory that they be dismissed for doing such
things. . . . The provisions of Civil Service Rule
XV that in case of any violation of the Civil Service
Act or Rules or of any Executive Order or any regulation of the Commission the Commission shall certify the facts to the proper appointing officer with
specific instructions as to discipline or dismissal is
now controlled by the provisions of the Hatch Act
that in case of violation of Section 9 (a) of that Act,
dismissal is mandatory." 56 F. Supp. 621, 624.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

DOUGLAS,

117

J., dissenting in part.

Their proposed conduct is sufficiently specific to show
plainly that it will violate the Act. The policy of the
Commission and the mandate of the Act leave no lingering
doubt as to the consequences.2
On a discharge these employees would lose their jobs,
their seniority, and other civil service benefits. They
could, of course, sue in the Court of Claims. United
States v. Lovett, 328 U. S. 303. But the remedy there is a
money judgment, not a restoration to the office formerly
held. Of course, there might be other remedies available
in these situations to determine their rights to the offices
from which they are discharged. See White v. Berry, 171
U. S. 366, 377. But to require these employees first to
suffer the hardship of a discharge is not only to make them
incur a penalty; it makes inadequate, if not wholly illusory, any legal remedy which they may have.' Men who
must sacrifice their means of livelihood in order to test
their rights to their jobs must either pursue prolonged
and expensive litigation as unemployed persons or pull
up their roots, change their life careers, and seek employment in other fields. At least to the average person in
the lower income groups the burden of taking that course
2The case is, therefore, unlike those situations where the Court
refused to entertain actions for declaratory judgments, the state of
facts being hypothetical in the sense that the challenge was to statutes
which had not as yet been construed or their specific application known.
See Electric Bond & S. Co. v. Securities and Exchange Commission,
303 U. S. 419, 443; Alabama State Federationof Labor v. McAdory,
325 U. S. 450.
Where the legal remedy is adequate, it may be the more appropriate one. Thus in Colman v. Breeze Corporations,supra, declaratory relief was denied a licensor of a patent who sued his licensee
for an adjudication that the Royalty Adjustment Act was unconstitutional since it appeared that a suit to recover royalties was an adequate legal remedy and that the constitutional issues could be
litigated there.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

is irreparable injury,4 cf. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123,
165, no matter how exact the required showing. "Cf. Watson v.Buck, 313 U. S. 387, 400.
The declaratory judgment procedure may not, of course,
be used as a substitute for other equitable remedies to
defeat a legislative policy, Great Lakes Co. v. Huffman,
319 U. S. 293, 300-301, or to circumvent the necessity of

exhausting administrative remedies. Order of Conductors v. Penn. R. Co., 323 U. S. 166; Macauley v. Waterman
S. S. Corp., 327 U. S. 540.

But it fills a need and serves a

high function previously "performed rather clumsily by
our equitable proceedings and inadequately by the law
courts." H. R. Rep. No. 1264, 73d Cong., 2d S~ss., p. 2.'
4If the prayer for declaratory relief be considered separately from
the prayer for an injunction, as it may be, allegations of irreparable
injury t!ireatened are not required. Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth,
300 U. S.227, 241.
5As stated in the Senate Report:
"The procedure has been especially useful in avoiding the
necessity, now so often present, of having to act at one's peril or
to act on one's own interpretation of his rights, or abandon one's
rights because of a fear of incurring damages. So now it is often
necessary, in the absence of the declaratory judgment procedure,
to violate or purport to violate a statute in order to obtain a
judicial determination of its meaning or validity

....

So now it

is often necessary to break a contract or adease, or act upon one's
own interpretation of his rights when disputed, in order to present
to thp court a justifiable [sic] controversy. In jurisdictions having the declaratory judgment procedure, it is not necessary to
bring about such social and economic waste and destruction in
order to obtain a determination of one's rights . . . There seems

little question that in many situiations in the conduct of business
serious disputes occur between parties, where, if there were a possibility of obtaining a judicial declaration of rights in a formal
action, much economic waste could be avoided and social peace
promoted. Persons now often have to act at their peril, a danger
which could be frequently avoided by the ability to sue for a
declaratory judgment as to their rights or duties." S. Rep. No.
1005, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 2-3. And see Bnrchard, Declaratory Ju(-gments (2d ed.) p. 4.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

DOUGLAS,

119

J., dissenting in part.

The declaratory judgment procedure is designed "to
declare rights and other legal relations-of any interested
party . . . whether or not further relief is or could be
prayed." Judicial Code § 274d, 28 U. S. C. § 400. The
fact that equity would not restrain a wrongful removal
of an officeholder but would leave the complainant to his
legal remedies, White v. Berry, supra,is, therefore, immaterial. A judgment which, without more, adjudicates the
status of a person is permissible under the Declaratory
Judgment Act. Perkins v. Elg, 307 U. S. 325, 349-350.
The "declaration of a status was perhaps the earliest exercise of this procedure." H. R. Rep. No. 1264, 73d Cong.,
2d Sess., p. 2. The right to hold an office or public position
against such threats is a common'example of its use.'
Borchard, Declaratory Judgments (2d ed.), pp. 858 et seq.
Declaratory relief is the singular remedy available here
to preserve the status quo while the constitutional rights
of these appellants to make.these utterances and to engage in these activities are 4iermined. The threat
against them is real not fanciful, immediate not remote.
The case is therefore an actual not a hypothetical one.!
6 The -case is therefore unlike one where the moving party shows no
invasion of his legal rights but only possible injury to the public (Perkins v. Lukens Steel Co., 310 U. S, 113,125) or one where no judicial
remedy for the alleged wrong has been created, General Committee v.
Missouri-K.-T. R. Co., 320 U. S. 323.
The following are cases in which the Court has allowed actions
for declaratory judgments to be entertained: Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Haworth, supra, where an insured claimed and the insurance company
denied that he had become totally and permanently di, tbled andihence
was relieved of the obligation to continue the payment of premiums; Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1, where tobacco warehousemen
and auctioneers claimed the Tobacco Inspection Act was unconstitutional; Perkins v. Elg, supra, where one claiming to be a citizen
was threatened with deportation as an alien and had been declined a
pa sport on the same. ground; Maryland uasualty Co. v: Pacific Coal
& Oil Co., 312 U. S. 270, where a third party was suing an insured
and the insurer sought a' judgmerit that it was not liable to defend

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DoUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

And the present case seems to me to be a good example
of a situation where uncertainty, peril, and insecurity
result from imminent and immediate threats to asserted
rights.
Since the Court does not reach the constitutionality of
the claims of these eleven individual appellants, a discussion of them would seem to be premature.
Second. Poole is not in the administrative category of
civil service. He is an industrial worker-a roller in the
mint, a skilled laborer or artisan whose work or functions in
no way affect the policy of the agency nor involve relationships with the public. There is a marked difference in the
British treatment of administrative and industrial employees under civil service." And the difference between
the two is for me relevant to the problem we have here.
the insured nor to indemnify the insured if the third party recovered; Altvater v. Freeman, 319 U. S. 359, where royalties were
being demanded and paid under protest and by reason of an injunction; Mercoid Corp. v. Honeywell Co., 320 U. S. 680, where an alleged
patent infringer sought a declaration of the invalidity of the patent;
Tennessee Coal, I. & R. Co. v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S. 590, where
an employer sued representatives of its employees for an adjudication of whether portal-to-portal pay was due under the Fair Labor
Standards Act; Hillsboroughv. Cromwell, 326 U. S. 620, where a taxpayer sued in the federal court to have assessments declared invalid on
the ground that they violated the Federal Constitution, the state
remedy being inadequate to protect the federal right;KatzingerCo. v.
Chicago Metallic Mfg'. Co., 329 U. S. 394, where a licensee sought
a declaration that he owed no royalties because of the invalidity of
the patent; Order of Railway Conductors v. Swan, 329 U. S. 520,
where it was sought to determine which division of the National,
Railroad Adjustment Board had jurisdiction over railroad yardmasters. Cf. Railway Mail Assn. v. Corsi, 326 U. S. 88, where a labor
membership corporation, which did not admit negroes and was
threatened with enforcement of a state statute declaring that practice
of labor organizations unlawful, sued in a state court for an adjudication that the statute could not constitutionally be applied to it.
8
Report, Committee on Parliamentary, etc., Candidature of Crown
Servants (1925), pp. 12, 13.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

DOUGLAS,

121

J., dissenting in part.

The civil service system has been called "the one great
political invention" of nineteenth century democracy.'
The intricacies of modern government, the important and
manifold tasks it performs, the skill and expertise required,
the vast discretionary powers vested in the various
agencies, and the impact of their work on individual claimants as well as on the general welfare have made the
integrity, devotion, and skill of the men and women who
compose the system a matter of deep concern of many
thoughtful people."0 Political fortunes of parties will ebb
and flow; top policy men in administrations will come and
go; new-laws will be passed and old ones amended or repealed. But those who give continuity to administration,
those who contribute the basic skill and efficiency to the
daily work of government, and those on whom the new as
well as the old administration is dependent for smooth
functioning of the complicated machinery of modern government are the core of the civil service. If they are beneficiaries of political patronage rather than professional careerists, serious results might follow-or so Congress could
reasonably believe. Public confidence in the objectivity
and integrity of the civil service system might be so weakened as to jeopardize the effectiveness of administrative
government. Or it might founder on the rocks of incompetency, if every change in political fortunes turned out
the incumbents, broke the continuity of administration,
and thus interfered with the development of expert man0Wallas, Human Nature in Politics (2d ed.), p. 263.
10

Fish, The Civil Service and The Patronage (1905); Meriam,

Public Personnel Problems (1938), ch. XI; Mosher & Kingsley, Public
Personnel Administration (1941), ch. XVIII; Kingsley, Representative
Bureaucracy (1944), ch. X; Morstein Marx, Public Management in
the New Democracy (1940), ch. XIV; Field, Civil Service Law (1939),
p. 196; Dawson, The Principle of Official Independence (1922), pp. 90
et seq.; Kaplan, Political Neutrality of theCivil Service, 1 Public Personnel Rev. 10; Chen, The Doctrine of Civil.Service Neutrality in
Party Conflicts in the United States and Great Britain (1937).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DouGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

agement at the technical levels. Or if the incumbents
were political adventurers or party workers, partisanship
might color or corrupt the processes of administration of
law with which most of the administrative agencies are
entrusted.
The philosophy is to develop a civil service which can
and will serve loyally and equally well any political party
which comes into power.11
Those considerations might well apply to the entire
group of civil servants in the administrative categorywhether they are those in the socalled expert classification
or are clerks, stenographers and the like. They are the ones
who have access to the files, who meet the public, who arrange appointments, who prepare the basic data on which
policy decisions are made. Each may be a tributary,
though perhaps a small one, to the main stream which we
call policy making or administrative action. If the element of partisanship enters into the official activities of
any member of the group, it may have its repercussions or
effect throughout the administrative process. Thus in
that type of case there would be much to support the view
of the Court that Congress need not undertake to draw the
line to include only the more important offices but can
take the precaution of protecting the whole by insulating
even the lowest echelon from partisan activities.
So, I think that if the issues tendered by Poole were
tendered by an administrative employee, we would have
quite a different case. For Poole claims the right to work
as a ward executive committeeman, i. e., as an officeholder
in a political party.
But Poole, being an industrial worker, is as remote from
contact with the public or from policy making or from the
functioning of the administrative process as a charwoman.
1 See Chen, op. cit. supra note 10, ch. I; Report of President's Com-

mittee on Civil Service Improvement, H. Doe. No. 118, 77th Cong.,
1st Sess., ch. III.

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL. 123
75

DoUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

The fact that he is in the classified civil service is not, I
think, relevant to the question of the degree to which his
political activities may be curtailed. He is in a position
not essentially different from one who works in the machine shop of a railroad or steamship which the Government runs, or who rolls aluminum in a, manufacturing.
plant which the Government owns and operates. Can all
of those categories of industrial employees constitutionally
be insulated from American political life? If at some
future time it should come to pass in this country, as it has
in England, that a broad policy of state ownership of basic
industries is inaugurated, does this decision mean that all
of the hundreds of thousands of industrial workers affected
could be debarred from the normal political activity which
is one of our valued traditions?
The evils of the "spoils" system do not, of course, end
with the administrative group of civil servants. History
shows that the political regimentation of government industrial workers produces its own crop of abuses. Those
in top policy posts or others in supervisory positions might
seek to knit the industrial workers in civil service into a
political machine. As a weapon they might seek to make
the advancement of industrial workers dependent. on political loyalty, on financial contributions, or on other partisan efforts. Or 'political activities of these workers
might take place on government premises, on government
time, or otherwise at government expense. These are
specific evils which would require a specific treatment.
There is, however, no showing of any such abuse here.
What Poole did, he did on his own without compulsion or
suggestion or invitation from any one higher up. Nor
does it appear that what he did was done. on government
time or on government premises. Moreover, as MR.
JUSTICE BLACK points out, laws can be drawn to punish
those who use such coercion. See Ex parte Curtis, 106
U. S. 371. Such activity is more than the exercise of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946:
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

330 U. S.

political prerogatives; it is the use of official power as
well, and hence can be restrained or punished. Cf. Bakery
Drivers Local v. Wohl, 315 U. S. 769, 776-777; Thomas v.
Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 543-544.
The question is whether a permissible remedy is complete or partial political sterilization of the industrial
group. There is, of course, the possibility of the mobilization, whether voluntary or otherwise, of millions of employees of the Federal Government and federally assisted
state agencies for the purpose of maintaining a particular
party or group in power. The marked increase in the
number of government employees in recent years has
accentuated the problem. The difficulty lies in attempting to preserve our democratic way of life by measures
which deprive a large segment of the population of all
political rights except the right to vote. Absent coercion,
improper use of government position or government funds,
or neglect or inefficiency in the performance of duty,
federal employees have the same rights as other citizens
under the Constitution. They are not second-class
citizens. If, in the exercise of their rights, they find common political interests and join with each other or other
groups in what they conceive to be their interests or the
interests of the nation, they are simply doing what any
other group might do. In other situations where the balance was between constitutional rights of individuals and
a community interest which sought to qualify those rights,
we have insisted that the statute be "narrowly drawn, to
define and punish specific conduct as constituting a clear
and present danger to a substantial interest" of government. Cantwell v. Connecticut, 31Q U. S. 296, 311. And
see Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105, 116; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 104-105.
That seems to me the proper course to follow here. The
prohibition in § 9 (a) of. the Hatch Act against government employees taking an ."active part in political man-

UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS v. MITCHELL.
75

DOUGLAS,

125

J., dissenting in part.

agement or in political campaigns" applies without
discrimination to all employees whether industrial or
administrative. The same is true of the Civil Service
Rules. See Rules I, § 1, XV, 5 C. F. R. Cum. Supp.,
§§ 1.1, 15.1. But the supposed evils are both different and
narrower in case of industrial workers than they are in the
case of the administrative group. 2 The public interest
in the political. activity of a machinist or elevator operator
or charwoman is a; distinct and different problem." In
those cases the public concern is in the preservation of
an unregimented industrial group, in a group free from
political pressures of superiors who use their official power
for a partisan purpose. Then official power is misused,
12

See Morstein Marx, op. cit., supra, note 10, pp. 205-206; Report

of the Committee on Parliamentary, etc., Candidature of Crown Servants, supra, note 8, p. 32; Finer, The British.Civil Service (1937), pp.
203-204.
13 As stated in Morstein Marx, op. cit., supra, note 10, pp. 205--206:
"The political neutrality of a postal clerk, of a conductor on
the city-owned subway system in New York,.of a technician in
the Chicago sanitary district, or uf an artisan in the labor class,
does not have the same significance as the political neutrality
of the prominent section chiefs of the Department of State or
the-political neutrality of an assistant to a commissioner in a New
York City department. No discussion of the problem which
ignores the differences between categories of employees is anything but an academic consideration of the problem. Top officialdom has such marked opportunities of shaping policy that its
political behavior must be so neutral as to raise no question of
a divergence in point of view between it and the executive
officers of government. It is quite proper, therefore, to require
the most impeccable political neutrality from such officials. But
the average or typical civil servant has no more opportunity in
the sphere of policy making than does the average citizen. He
is entrusted with a function ministerial in nature, a routine task
almost wholly unaffected by his political point of view. This
principle is recognized in the English rule that industrial workers iti government employment may stand for election, a privilege
denied administrative employees."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DovGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

o 330 U. S.

perverted. The Government is corrupted by making its
industrial workers political captives, victims of bureaucratic power, agents for perpetuating one party in power.
Offset against that public concern are the interests of
the employees in the exercise of cherished constitutional
rights. The nature andimportance of those rights have
been fully expounded in MR. JUSTICE BLACK'S opinion. If
those rights are to be qualified by the larger requirements
of riiodern democratic government, the restrictions should
be narrowly and selectively drawn to define and punish the
specific conduct which constitutes a clear and present
danger to the operations of government. It seems plain
to me that that evil has its roots in the coercive activity of
those in the hierarchy who have the power to regiment the
industrial group or who undertake to do so. To sacrifice
the political rights of the industrial workers goes far beyond any demonstrated or demonstrable need. Those
rights are too basic and fundamental in our democratic
political society to be sacrificed or qualified for anything
short of a clear and present danger to the civil service system. No such showing has been made in the case of these
industrial workers "' which justifies their political sterilizatibn as distinguished from selective measures aimed at the
coercive practices on which the spoils system feeds.

114Whether the Act, being unconstitutional as applied to Poole, could
be separably applied to civil service employees in other categories is a
question I do not reach.

