LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
Syllabus.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.

DONNELLY GARMENT CO.
NO. 38.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued October 16, 1946.-Decided March 3, 1947.
Before the National Labor Relations Board a union charged an employer with unfair labor practices, including the 'formation and
domination of *a plant union to forestall the efforts of the complaining union to organize the employees. The Trial Examiner
rejected an offer by the employer to prove through the testimony of
1,200 employees that they had not been coerced to join the plant
union and excluded evidence that the formation of the plant union
followed strike threats and violence by the complaining union
against other plants. The Board ordered disestablishment of the
plant union. The Circuit Court of Appeals found no basis for
setting aside the proceedings as unfair ori the ground that either
the Examiner or the Board was biased, held that the Board properly limited the evidence to issues raised by the complaint, and
found no impropriety in the exclusion of evidence offered to prove
misconduct on the part of the complaining union. However, it
found that the employer had been denied a fair hearing in not
being allowed to present testimony of its employees that the plant
union was truly independent and that they had joined it voluntarily. Accordingly, it denied enforcement of the order and remanded the case to the Board "for firther proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this Court." The Board denied the
employer's application for a new examiner and assigned the case
to the original examiner for further hearing. This time the Examiner heard eleven of the 1,200 employees named in the offer of
proof rejected in the earlier proceeding and allowed the president
of the employer corporation to testify fully; but excluded all evidence of events subsequent to the termination of the first hearing.
Upon findings and recommendations substantially the same as previously made, the Board issued virtually the same order. The
*Together with No. 39, International Ladies' Garment Workers'
Union v. Donnelly Garment Co. et al., also on certiorari to the same
Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

330 U. S.

Circuit Court of Appeals denied enforcement "for want of due
process in the proceedings upon which the order is based."
Held:
1. Upon the record, there was no want of due process in the
Board's proceedings. Pp. 225-238.
2. In view of the nature of the administrative process with which
the Board is entrusted and in the light of the statement in the
Court's opinion in the first review that "the least that the Board
can do . . . is . . . to accord the petitioners an opportunity to
introduce all of the competent and material evidence which was
rejected by the Trial Examiner; and to receive and consider such
evidence together with all other competent and material evidence
in the record before making new findings and a new order," the
remand on the first review did not require a proceeding de novo
before the Board nor a rehearing on issues as to which the original
hearing was adequate. Pp. 225-228.
3. Upon examination of the whole record, it can not be said that
the Board disregarded the ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals
that the Board should consider testimony of employees to the effect
that they voluntarily organized and joined the plant union and
that the union's affairs were uninfluenced by the employer.
Pp. 222-231.
4. Discriminatory treatment by the Board is not established by
the fact that evidence as to the effect of violence by an outside
union on the formation of the plant union was limited to events
within six months of the formation of the plant union, whereas
evidence of coercion by the employer in the formation of the plant
union was admitted though related to a period two years prior to
the formation of the plant union. Pp. 231-232.
5. The Board was not bound on the second hearing to admit
evidence of the complaining union's misconduct, inasmuch as there
already was evidence in the record to apprise the Board of alleged
misconduct by the complaining union if on that score the Board
chose not to entertain charges of unfair labor practices against the
employer. Labor Board v. Indiana & Michigan Electric Co., 318
U. S. 9, distinguished. Pp. 233-236.
6. The power of the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 10 (e) to
require the Board to take additional evidence can not be employed
to enlarge the statutory scope of judicial review. Pp. 234-235.
7. The Board's denial of the employer's application for the designation of a new examiner for the hearing on the remand was not
improper. Pp. 236-237.

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

opinion of the Court.

8. The Circuit Court of Appeals not having considered the
question of the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the findings
on which the order of the Board was based, the case is remanded to
that court for determination of this issue. Pp. 237-238.
151 F. 2d 854, reversed.

A cease-and-desist order of the National Labor Relations Board, 21 N. L. R. B. 164, against an employer was
denied enforcement by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which remanded the case to the Board. 123 F. 2d 215.
A second order of the Board, issued after a further hearing, 50 N. L. R. B. 241, was also denied enforcement. 151
F. 2d 854. On petitions of the Board and the complaining
union, this Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 775.
Reversed and remanded, p. 238.
Ruth Weyand argued the cause for the National Labor
Relations Board. With her on the 'brief were Solicitor
General McGrath,Stanley M. Silverberg, GerhardP. Van
Arkel, Morris P. Glushien and Fannie M. Boyls.
Clif Langsdale argued the cause for the International
*Ladies' Garment Workers' Union. With him on the brief
was Clyde Taylor.
Robert J. Ingraham argued the cause for the Donnelly
Garment Co., respondent. With him on the brief was
Burr S. Stottle.
Frank E. Tyler argued the cause and filed a brief for
the 'Donnelly Garment Workers' Union, respondent.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On March 6,1940, the National Labor Relations Board,
on finding that the Donnelly Garment Company had engaged in labor practices condemned as "unfair" by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Wagner Act, issued an order against the Company "to
effectuate the policies" of the Act. The Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit denied enforcement of
the order and remanded the case to the Board. 123 F.
2d 215. After carrying out what it conceived to be the
directions of the Court, the Board again found against
the Company. The Court below denied enforcement of
the Board's second order "for want of due process in the
proceedings upon which the order is based." 151 F. 2d
854, 875. The correctness of this ruling is now before us,
for we brought the case here, 327 U. S. 775, to rule on
important issues in the administration of the Wagner Act.
This protracted litigation has given rise to a swarm of
questions. In view of the fact that the case comes to us
after it has been twice before the Board and three times
before the court below, on a record of thirteen volumes
with a total of more than 5000 pages, even an earnest
attempt at compactness cannot avoid a somewhat
extended opinion.
The case presents limited legal phases of one of those
bitter, unedifying conflicts with which American industrial
history is unfortunately replete. For other litigation
growing out of this strife, see 20 F. Supp. 767; 2l'F. Supp.
807; 304 U. S. 243; 23 F. Supp. 998; 99 F. 2d 309; 119 F.
2d 892; 121 F. 2d 561; 47F. Supp. 61; 47F. Supp. 65; 47
F. Supp. 67; 55 F. Supp. 572; 55 F. Supp. 587; 147 F. 2d
246; 154 F. 2d 38. It has its roots in a campaign by the
International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union (hereafter
designated as International) to unionize the women's garment industry in Kansas City, Missouri. Because of its
importance, the Donn'elly Garment Company (to be called
Company for short) became the particular target of these
unionizing efforts. These continued with varying intensity over a period of years but met with little success
among the Company's employees.

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

In 1938, International began proceedings before the
Board charging the Company with a series of unfair
labor practices in violation of § 8 (1), (2), (3) of the
National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C.
§§ 151 et seq. The main charge was that the Company,
to counteract the efforts of International, had stimulated the formation of a plant union, the Donnelly
Garment Workers' Union (hereafter called Union) and
had dominated it thtough financial and other aid.
Following the usual procedure there was a hearing
before a trial examiner. At the hearing, the Examiner rejected an offer by the Company to prove,
through the testimony of 1200 employees, that they had
not been coerced by the Company to join Union, but that
each of them had done so of his own free will, and that
they had no knowledge of Company influence in the affairs of Union. The Examiner also excluded evidence
to show that the formation of the Union followed strike
threats and violence by International, successful against
smaller competitors of the Company, to coerce the
Company into a closed-shop agreement with International. To these and other less important exclusions
the Company duly excepted on th6 submission of the
Trial Examiner's intermediate report. The Board upheld the Examiner's rulings on evidence, accepted his
findings of fact, and, with a qualification not here relevant,
adopted his recommendations. Thereupon it issued the
usual cease-and-desist order, and directed the disestablishment of Union and reimbursement to employees of the
amount of the dues which the Company had checked off
on behalf of Union (21 N. L. R. B. 164).
Review of this order came before the Circuit Court of
Appeals on the Company's petition to set it aside and on
the Board's cross-petition for its enforcement. On several contentions, the disposition of which is relevant to

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

the questions now calling for decision, the Court sustained
the Board. It found no basis for setting aside the proceedings as unfair on the claim that either the Examiner
or the Board was biased. It held that the Board properly
limited the evidence to issues raised by the complaint, and
since International was not on trial it found no impropriety in the exclusion of evidence offered to prove its misconduct. The Court did however find that the Company
had been denied a fair hearing in not being allowed to
present the testimony of its employees to the effect that
Union was truly independent and that they had joined
it voluntarily. The Court remanded the case to the
Board "for further proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion of this Court."
The Board thereupon set the case for a second hearing
before th6 original Examiner. Insisting that he was
biased and had prejudged as valueless "the evidence to be
adduced at the pending hearing," the Company moved for
a new trial examiner. The Board denied the application
and the case proceeded to hearing. This time the Examiner heard eleven of the 1200 employees named in the
offer of proof rejected in the earlier proceeding, but declined to hear the rest on the ground that their testimony
would be merely cumulative. He allowed the President
of the Company, whom illness had kept from the earlier
hearing, to testify fully. Otherwise, he received no evidence that had been available but was not offered at
the earlier proceeding, and excluded all evidence of
events subsequent to the termination of the first hearing. The Examiner's findings and recommendations, in
respects here material, were substantially the same as
those he had previously made, and the Board, acting
upon his intermediate report, issued virtually the same
order. 50 N. L. R. B. 241. The Company again petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals to set aside the
order, and the Board again requested its enforcement.

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

225

Opinion of the Court.

During the pendency of these proceedings, the Company
invoked § 10 (e) of the Wagner Act and asked the Court
leave to adduce before the Board evidence which it
claimed had been erroneously excluded. This motion was
not granted. Instead, as already noted, the Court denied
the Board's petition for enforcement "for want of due
process in the proceedings upon which the order is based."
151 F. 2d 854, 875. The Court set forth its views in a
careful opinion of more than thirty pages in the printed
record. There was also a concurring opinion, and a
dissent.
The Court canvassed many items, of evidence. As
to some of the Board's rulings which it disapproved, the
Court stated explicitly that by themselves they would not
have afforded sufficient ground for reversal. Rulings
which individually would not invalidate an order of the
Board do not in combination acquire the necessary
strength to undo what the Board, acting under authority
given it by Congress, has done. We do not find that
in their combination these rulings amounted to unfairness. We must therefore consider one by one those objections which the Court deemed sufficient to vitiate the
Board's order. For the Court below did not suggest that
the Board as a tribunal was so biased as to be incapable
of fair judgment in this case. It found that such a finding against the Board was not justified.
First. The controlling basis of the Court's finding of
unfairness in the Board proceedings related to testimony proffered by the Company at the second hearing
before the Examiner. This second hearing was not
a new proceeding. It was a stage in a process consisting of the first proceeding before the Board, the remand
resulting from review of the Board's order in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and the second proceeding before the
Board in response to this remand. The correctness of the
Court's judgment refusing enforcement of the Board's

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

second order must be judged in the light of the interrelation of the two proceedings before the Board, and the
Board's justifiable interpretation of the directions which
it received upon remand of the first order. Indeed, the
disposition of the present case turns decisively on the view
that is taken of the Board's interpretation of its duty
under the Court's mandate.
It becomes necessary therefore to revert to the precise
terms of the Court's mandate. The order was remanded
by the Circuit Court of Appeals "to said Labor Board
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion
of this Court." The Court's opinion yields this gloss upon
its mandate:
"Our conclusion is that the petition of the Board for
enforcement of the order under review must be denied. We think that the least that the Board can
do, in order to cure the defects in its procedure caused
by the failure of the Trial Examiner to receive admissible evidence, is to vacate the order and the
findings and conclusions upon which it is based; to
accord to the petitioners [the Company and the
plant union] an opportunity to introduce all of the
competent and material evidence which was rejected
by the Trial Examiner; and to receive and consider
such evidence together with all other competent and
material evidence in the record before making new
findings and a new order." 123 F. 2d 215, 225.
The Board based its new order upon the record of the
first proceeding, reopening the hearing only for the purpose of admitting the erroneously excluded testimony of
the employees. In short, the Board did not 'understand
the remand to call for a new trial. The Court, when
called upon to construe it four years later, took a different
view of the meaning of its decision of November, 1941:
"It is, we think, apparent that what this Court, in effect,

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

ruled was that the Company and the plant union were
entitled to a new trial upon the evidence already taken'
and such competent and material evidence as might be
proffered upon a further hearing." 151 F. 2d 854, 856.
From this point of view, the Court could readily conclude
that the record which came to it "presents an incomplete
picture."
We have recognized that "the court that issues a mandate is normally the best judge of its content, on the general theory that the author of a document is ordinarily
the authoritative interpreter of its purposes." But, we
continued, "it is not even true that a lower court's interpretation of its mandate is controlling here. Compare
United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183. Therefore, we
would not be foreclosed by the interpretation which the
Court of Appeals gave to its mandate, even if it had been
directed to a lower court." Federal Communications
Comm'n v. Pottsville BroadcastingCo., 309 U. S. 134, 141.
Here, as in that case, a much deeper issue is involved. As
we had occasion to point out in the Pottsville case, there
are significant differences between the relations of an appellate court to a lower court and those of a court to a lawenforcing agency, like the Board, whose order is subject
only to restricted judicial review. These differences may
be particularly telling upon remand. of an order to the
agency. Due regard for these differences must guide us
through the maze of details in this case.
In the context of the opinion remanding the Board's
original order and of the nature of the administrative
process with which it is entrusted, the Board was justified
in not deeming itself under duty to grant a "new trial"
in the sense in which a lower court must start anew
when an upper court directs such a new trial. There
was no reference to a "new trial," nor was any intimation
given that-such was the breadth of what the remand re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

quired. From the Court's opinion there appears only a
very restricted dissatisfaction with the original proceedings before the Board, calling for a correspondingly restricted correction. "The least that the Board can do,"
wrote the court, "is . . . to accord to the petitioners an
opportunity to introduce all of the conipetent and material evidence which was rejected by the Trial Examiner;
and to receive and consider such evidence together with
all other competent and material evidence in the record
before making new findings and a new order." 123 F. 2d
at 225. "The least that the Board can do" may well
imply that the Board is authorized to draw on the wide
scope of its statutory discretion. But to advise the Board
of "the least that [it] can do" does not put the Board
in default for not doing more. Due process does not
afford a party the right to treat as a rehearsal a hearing
on the issues for which the hearing was adequate. And
the Wagner Act does not require that ground be covered
a second time or piecemeal.
Second. Since in our view the remand did not call for
a proceeding de novo, the Board was not required to reopen any issue as to which its ruling was left unassailed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals in its first decision. We
shall therefore consider the particular defects which the
Circuit Court of Appeals found in the second hearing,
by treating that hearing not as a new trial but as the
sequel of the first hearing under a remand by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the limited purpose of correcting
the prior erroneous exclusion of testimony.
(1) The Board's decision that the Company had engaged in unfair labor practices to a large extent turned on
the Company's relation to the plant union. It is fair
to infer that the lower court's denial of enforcement
of the Board's order was influenced most by its finding that the Trial Examiner and the Board did not comply
with the Court's mandate on the first review regarding the

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

proffer of testimony of the Company's employees to the
effect that they voluntarily organized and joined the Union
and that, to their knowledge, its affairs were uninfluenced
by the Company. At the second hearing the Examiner
admitted the testimony of eleven such employees, excluding further oral testimony of the same nature as
merely cumulative. The court below did not quarrel with
confining this line of testimony to eleven witnesses. But
it reached the view that neither the Examiner nor the
Board took this testimony into. account in reaching the
findings on which the Board's second order was based.
It was principally from this that the Court concluded that
the Company was denied the full hearing to secure which
the case was remanded to the Board.
According to an early English judge, "The devil himself
knoweth not the mind of man," and a modern reviewing
court. is not much better equipped to lay bare unexposed
mental processes. It is a grave responsibility to conclude
that in admitting the testimony of the Company's employees, the Board went through a mere pretense of
obedience to the Court's direction, and heard the testimony
with a deaf ear and a closed mind. In light of the authority with which Congress has endowed the Board, and with
due regard to the conscientiousness which we must attribute to another branch of the Government, we cannot reject
its explicit avowal that it did take into account evidence
which it should have considered unless an examination of
the whole record puts its acceptance beyond reason.
Since this matter is crucial, it is appropriate to quote fully
the Board's decision on the point:
"In remanding the case to the Board for further
hearing, the Circuit Court directed that the respondent [the Company] and the D. G. W. U. [the plant
union] be permitted to adduce the previously proffered testimony of respondent's [the Company's]
employees to show, in substance, that they formed

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

and joined the D. G. W. U. of their own free will and
that they were not influenced, interfered with or coerced by the respondent in choosing that organization
as their bargaining representative. In compliance
with the Court's mandate and pursuant to the respective offers of proof submitted by the respondent and
the D. G. W. U. at the original hearing, the Board
permitted the introduction of such testimony. We
have carefully considered all such evidence adduced
by the respondent and the D. G. W. U. We find,
however, that the testimony in question does not overcome more positive evidence in the record that the
respondent committed acts of interference and assistance in the formation and administration of the D. G.
W. U. which subjected that organization to the respondent's domination and which removed from the
employees' selection of the D. G. W. U. the complete
freedom of choice which the Act contemplates. Since
we find the testimony here adduced totally unpersuasive that the employees voluntarily designated the
D. G. W. U., we are moreover impelled to adhere to
the opinion, derived from our experience in administration of the Act, that conclusionary evidence of this
nature is immaterial to issues such as those presented
in this case. A consideration of all the evidence convinces us, and we find, that the-respondent dominated
and interfered with the formation and administration
of the D. G. W. U. and contributed support thereto;
and that the respondent thereby interfered with, restrained, and coerced its employees in the exercise of
the rights guaranteed in Section 7 of the Act." 50
N. L. R. B. 241.

We cannot read this otherwise than as an assurance by
the Board that it did not merely go through the motions of
allowing the testimony of these witnesses to get into the
record as an empty formality, but that it duly heeded the

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

order of the Court and reflected upon the tcstimony. The
Board judged of its worth, as it had a right to, in light of
the mass-of other testimony in the case, and found it unpersuasive. Had the Board said no more the court below
could hardly have found disregard of its mandate. The
Board's skeptical expression regarding this kind of testimony hardly disproves obedience to the Court's mandate.
Even lower courts sometime indicate disagreement with
a ruling they are bound to enforce. Out of repeated instances of hearing the same thing a generalization as to its
worth will almost inevitably emerge in the thoughts of a
tribunal. As to this sort of testimony, it has been observed that a feeling by employees "that they were under
no sense of constraint . . . is - subtle thing, and the
recognition of constraint may call for a high degree of introspective perception." Judge. Magruder in Bethlehem
Shipbuilding Corp. v. National LaborRelations Board, 114
F. 2d 930, 937. We are not called upon to lay down a
general rule of materiality regarding such testimony
Suffice it to say that the Board obeyed the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals that the testimony of the Company's employees regarding Union was to be adduced and
considered. Its probative value was for the Board. See
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 313 U. S. 146, 163. And the Court did not rule
that the rest of the record repelled the Board's assurance
that it "carefully considered" the evidence the Court bade
it to consider. It expressly withheld consideration of the
Board's order on the basis of the whole record.
(2) The new testimony of the Donnelly employees led
to rulings on evidence by the Examiner, approved by
the Board, which in the view of the Court below contributed to render the hearing unfair. The testimony related to the offensive aspect of International's unionizing
efforts and the bearing of this upon the 6daim of Company
that Union was quite independent and not the Company's

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

instrument. The employees were allowed to testify that
they were antagonized by acts of violence on the part
of International and that they sought self-protection in
'a union of their own, Voluntarily formed. The Examiner
limited this line of testimony to acts of violence within
six months preceding the organization of Union. This
was based on the notion that a time limit had to be drawn
somewhere in ascertaining the effect of known violence in
persuading Donnelly employees to form their own union,
and that a period longer thhn six months was too remote,
or, in any event, -had not sufficient probative value.
Surely this was a reasonable ruling by the hearingtribunal. At any rate it was not so circumscribing of
proof in establishing the issue toward which the evidence
was directed as to call for correction. But it is urged that
while the Company was so restricted on proof of this issue
the Board allowed evidence further back calculated to
show a continuous state of mind toward influencing employee association by the Company. By way of rebuttal
to the employees' testimony that the plant union of 1937
was a spontaneous effort of the employees wholly uninfluenced by the Company, the Board admitted evidence
to show .that the 9ompany fostered a company union in
1935. It does not follow that the limitation of time on
admissible evidence is the same regardless of the issue
for which the evidence is tendered. Certainly we cannot
say that it was not admissible to allow this evidence of
company coercion in 1935 as bearing on the independence
of the new plant union in 1937. And so we cannot find
a solid enough ground fo establish discriminatory treatment by the Board because on this issue it went back
to 1935 whereas on the issue of the influence of International's violence in the formation of the 1937 plant
union, it drew the line at events six months prior
thereto.

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

(3) While we think that the Board properly construed
the scope of the remand not to require a retrial of issues
canvassed at the first hearing, time does not stop still even
for the administrative process. Change in circumstances
may make relevant at the second hearing what wascirrelevant at the first hearing. The Circuit Court of Appeals found such a change in circumstances in a decision
of this Court rendered after the first review below. In
its decision of November 6, 1941, the Circuit Court of
Appeals sustained the exclusion by the Board of testimony to prove misdeeds by International. The tenor
of its reasoning was that an inquiry into charges of
unfair labor practices by the Company did not make
relevant charges of misconduct against International,
the complainant. The Board issued the order now challenged on June 9, 1943. In the meantime, on January
19, 1943, this Court decided National Labor Relations
Board v. Indiana & Michigan Electric Co., 318 U. S. 9.
That case, so the court below thought, required the admission at the second hearing of the offer of proof regarding
International's acts of violence.
We regard this as a misapplication of the Indiana &
Michigan case. This case is not that case. They have
in common an accusation of grave misconduct against a
complainant before the Board. Otherwise, the circumstances of the two cases, and the legal issues they raise,
are very different. The Indiana & Michigan case involved a proceeding under § 10 (e) of the National Labor
Relations Act authorizing the Circuit Court of Appeals
to order additional evidence to be taken before the Board
when it is shown "to the satisfaction of the court that
such additional evidence is material and that there were
reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence" at the hearing. We had previously held that such
an application "was addressed to the sound judicial dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

cretion of the court." Southport Petroleum Co. v. Labor
Board,315 U. S. 100, 104. Section 10 (e) in effect formulates a familiar principle regarding newly discovered
evidence. Even without such explicitness this Court has,
on occasion, not allowed administrative orders to stand
where there has been a drastic change in circumstances.
In Indiana & Michigan the offer of proof related to events
subsequent to the Board's hearing, tending to show acts
of serious violence on behalf of a complaining union. The
Board had refused to reopen the case and the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit granted the application
under § 10 (e). We held that, in the light of the circumstances before it, the Circuit Court of Appeals did not
abuse its discretion in ordering additional evidence to be
taken before the Board. The proffered testimony was
held relevant on three grounds: (1) Inasmuch as the
Board, by the very nature of its case load, must exercise
discretion in entertaining complaints, the newly revealed
misconduct on the part of the complainant might affect,
not the jurisdiction of the Board, but the exercise of its
power to entertain a charge; (2) the new evidence bore
materially upon the credibility of some important witnesses before the Board; (3) the Board had attributed to
the Company responsibility for the conduct of some of its
supervisory employees, and the new evidence might lead
the Board to conclude that their conduct was to be
attributed to self-interest and not charged against the
employer.
Here we have a totally different situation. We are not
reviewing an allowable exercise of judicial discretion by
the Circuit Court of Appeals in ordering the Board to
hear newly discovered evidence. On review of its order,
the Board cannot be compelled to admit evidence which
it excluded unless such exclusion was clearly insupport-able. The power to adduce additional evidence granted

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

to the Circuit Court of Appeals by § 10 (e) cannot be
employed to enlarge the statutory scope of judicial
review. The short of the matter is that the Court deemed
it reversible error on the part of the Board not to entertain testimony on a matter which the court deemed irrelevant to the issues at the first hearing. It did so because
it interpreted the Indiana & Michigan case to hold that
failure by the Board to allow a full-dress inquiry into
the misconduct of a complainant, particularly if very
serious, renders the proceedings unfair as a matter of
law. We were not dealing with such an abstraction in
the Indiana & Michigan case. Nothing short of such an
abstraction will justify invalidation of the order in this
case because the Board did not deal with the charges
against International as a separate issue, or as though the
International had been on trial. The only consideration
affecting the behavior of a complainant that played a
part in the decision in Indiana & Michigan and which
may here be invoked, is the suggestion that the character
of a complainant may rightfully influence the Board in
entertaining a complaint. But the charges against International had in fact been brought to the attention of the
Board even though not in the way in which International
would have been tried had it been formally charged with
crime. It would be unreal to deny that there was plenty
of evidence in the record to apprise the Board of alleged
misconduct by International if on that score it chose not
to entertain charges of unfair labor practices against the
company. In the light of the Board's opinion, it would
be doctrinaire to assume that it would have reached any
other result if evidence of International's misconduct had
been more voluminous. Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. v.
National Labor Relations Board, supra. The two other
respects in which newly discovered evidence as to violence
was ordered to be heard in the Indiana& Michigan case are

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

completely lacking here. Here we have not new evidence
material to the credibility of important witnesses or relevant in assessing the responsibility by an employer for
conduct of supervisory employees. The refusal of the
Board in effect to try International did not impair the
validity of the Board's order.
Even in judicial trials, the whole tendency is to leave
rulings as to the illuminating relevance of testimony
largely to the discretion of the trial court that hears the
evidence. See, e. g., Morgan, Foreword, American Law
Institute Code of Evidence, p. 15. Courts of appeal
are less and less inclined to base error on such rulings.
Administrative tribunals are given even freer scope in
the application of the conventional rules of evidence. See
Tagg Bros. v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 442. It is
significant that the Wagner Act specifically provided that
"the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling." § 10 (b).
'Third. This brings us to the only other objection to
a ruling of the Board made after the first hearing. On
the first review, the court below rejected the Company's
contention that the Examiner was biased. 123 F. 2d at
219. On the second review, the Court was of opinion
that the Board improperly denied the Company's application for a new Examiner. It did so, apparently, not
because it found actual bias on the part of the Examiner
demonstrated at either hearing. The Court seemed to
be rmoved by the generous feeling that a party ought
not to be put to trial before an examiner who, by reason
of his prior rulings and findings, may not he capable of
exercising impartiality. Certainly it is not the rule of
judicial administration that, statutory requirements
apart, see Judicial Code § 21, 28 U. S. C. § 25, a judge is
disqualified from sitting in a retrial because he was reversed on earlier rulings. We find no warrant for impos-

LABOR BOARD v. DONNELLY CO.
219

Qpinion of the Court.

ing upon administrative agencies a stiffer rule, whereby
examiners would be disentitled to sit because they ruled
strongly against a party in the first hearing. The Board
might have gone beyond the legal compulsions and ordered the new evidence to be heard before a new Examiner
who could report with a mind wholly free from prior
litigious embroilments. The Board might have been well
advised also to allow greater leeway in admitting evidence
not strictly relevant. It takes time to avoid even the
appearAnce of grievances. But it is time well spent, even
though it is not easy to satisfy interested parties, and defeated litigants, no matter how fairly treated, do not
always have the feeling that they have, received justice.
In any event, we are not the advisers of these agencies.
And we have no right to upset their orders unless they fall
afoul of legal requirements. Cf. Inland Empire Council
v. Millis, 325 U. S. 697. We do not find that the Board's
order offends them.
Fourth. We have examined all the issues pressed here
but we need not enlarge upon ourconclusion that they are
without merit. There remains the proper disposition of
the case. Having found infirmities in the proceedings
which led to the order, the Court below did not consider
the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the findings on
which the order was based.. This controversy has been so
long in litigation that, other things being equal, it would
be highly desirable finally to dispose of the whole case here.
But other things are not equal. It is not the function of
this Court to review in the first instance the sufficiency of
evidence on which the Board's order is based. Congress
placed that function in the Circuit Court of Appeals. And
this case is peculiarly not one in which we should do the
unusual thing and pass on evidence without its prior consideration by the lower court. It is not for us to make an
.independent examination of this entire record. The de-

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
330 U. S.

Syllabus.

mands of the work of this Court preclude an independent
canvass of a record of thirteen volumes, containing more
than 5000 pages. Two judges below who had gone over
this mass of evidence reached opposite conclusions regarding its sufficiency to support the Board's findings. For
the determination of this issue we remand the case to the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
Reversed and remanded.

UNITED STATES v..POWELL
NO. 56.

ET AL.,

RECEIVERS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued January 13, 1947.-Decided March 3, 1947.
1. Section 321 (a) of the Transportation Act of 1940 provides that
commercial rates shall be applicable to transportation of property
for the United States, excepting "military or naval property of the
United States moving for military or naval and not for civil use."
Held: Phosphate rock.and superphosphate which were property of
the United States, and which were transported in 1941 on consignment to the British Ministry of War Transport under the
Lend-Lease Act, but which were for use in Britain as farm fertilizer, were not within the exception and were not entitled to landgrant rather than commercial rates. Pp. 239-242, 247.
2. The .fact that the goods transported were "defense articles" under
the Lend-Lease Act did not of itself entitle them to land-grant rates
under § 321 (a). Pp. 242-245.
3. Although the exception in § 321 (a) is to be construed strictly in
favor of the United States, the standards of the Lend-Lease Act
are not to be read into the Transportlition Act. Pp. 243-244.
4. The property here involved was being transported for a "civil"
use within the meaning of § 321 (a), since it was destined for use
by civilian agencies in agricultural projects and not for use by the
armed services to satisfy any of their needs or wants or by any
civilian agency which acted as their adjunct or otherwise serviced
them in any of their activities. Pp. 245-247.
152 F. 2d 228, 230, affirmed.
*Together with No. 57, United States v. Atlantic Coast Line Railroadd Co., also on certiorari to the same Court.

