WALLING v. GENERAL INDUSTRIES CO. 545
Syllabus.

539

would warrant our finding an implied exception to the
operation of so clear a command as that of § 3466." In
this case, as in that, we think such inconsistency is wholly
wanting. United States v. Guaranty Trust Co., supra,
is therefore inapposite.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS would affirm the judgment on
the authority of United States v. Guaranty Trust Co., 280
U. S. 478.

WALLING, WAGE AND HOUR ADMINISTRATOR,
v. GENERAL INDUSTRIES CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 564.

Argued February 10, 11, 1947.-Decided March 31, 1947.

1. In a suit by the Wage-Hour Administrator to enjoin alleged violations of the overtime compensation requirement of § 7 of the Fair
Labor Standards Act, the evidence summarized in the opinion held
adequate to support a finding by the district court that certain
"operating engineers" who had charge of a power plant in the
absence of the chief engineer, supervised the work of firemen and
coal passers, received monthly salaries in excess of $200, and enjoyed privileges usually reserved for supervisory employees, were,
exempted by § 13 (a) as employees employed in an "executive"
capacity. Pp. 547-550.
2. Where findings of fact made by a district court on conflicting
evidence and inferences drawn therefrom are not clearly wrong,
they should not be rejected by a circuit court of appeals. P. 550.
3. Upon review of a judgment of a circuit court of appeals on certiorari, the respondent, without filing a cross-petition for certiorari,
may seek-to sustain the judgment on a ground which the circuit
court of appeals rejected as well as upon that which it accepted.
P. 547, n. 5.
155 F. 2d 711, affirmed.

546,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

The Wage-Hour Administrator sued to enjoin alleged
violations of the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act. The District Court held that the employees in question were exempt under § 13 (a) and gave
judgment for the employer. 60 F. Supp. 549. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed on the ground that the
employees in question, though not exempt, had been compensated in accordance with the Act. 155 F. 2d 711.
This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 704. Affirmed,
p. 550.
George M. Szabad argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Philip Elman, William S. Tyson, Bessie Margolin
and Morton Lif tin.
Glen 0. Smith argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were M. Reese Dill and Carl F. Shuler.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In a complaint filed in the District Court, petitioner
charged that respondent was violating the Fair Labor
Standards Act 1 by failing to pay some of its employees
time and one-half for statutory overtime, as required by
§ 7 (a) of the Act, and asked an injunction against continued violation. Respondent denied the charge, and
separately alleged that any of its employees not compensated in accordance with the requirements of § 7 (a) were
exempt from the Act by § 13 (a).
The Court, without a jury, heard witnesses for both
parties with respect to the compensation and status of
three engineers in respondent's power plant. It made
special findings of fact, concluded that these men were
1 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq.

WALLING v. GENERAL INDUSTRIES CO. 547
545

Opinion of the Court.

exempt employees, and entered judgment for respondent
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought the evidence did
not sustain the District Court's findings relative to the
engineers' exempt status. But it thought that the
District Court had also found the engineers' compensation to be in accordance with the Act. It decided
that the evidence was adequate to this end, and
affirmed the District Court's judgment.! We granted
certiorari " to determine whether the ruling of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was not inconsistent with this Court's
decision on computation of overtime in Overnight Motor
Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572. On argument here, however, respondent continued to urge that the District
Court was warranted in its findings as to the engineers'
exempt status.' Having heard the argument and examined the record, we agree that it was. Therefore, we need
not consider further the question of computation of overtime, and proceed only to state the considerations relevant to the particular ground of our decision.
There is no dispute as to the applicable law. Section
13 (a)- exempts from the overtime provisions of the Act
any person employed in an "executive capacity" as defined
in regulations issued by the Administrator. The Regulations prescribe six conjunctive conditions to an executive
capicity, which are set forth in the margin.! Respondent
Walling v. General Industries Co., 60 F. Supp. 549.
WWWallin v. General Industries Co., 155 F. 2d 711.
4 329 U. S. 704.
' Respondent was entitled to make this contention .here without
filing a cross-petition for certiorari. Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S.
531, 538; Public Service Commission of Puerto Rico v. Havemeyer,
296 U. S. 506, 509.
6 29 C. F. R. Cum. Supp. § 541.1, 5 Fed. Reg. 4077 (Regulations of
the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, U. S. Dept. of Labor,
Oct. 24, 1940, amended Jan. 16, 1942) provides as follows:
"§ 541.1 Executive.
"The term 'employee employed in a bona fide executive.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

had the burden of proving the existence of these conditions,
if it would rely on its defense that the engineers were
exempt employees.!
There was evidence to the following effect. Respondent
operates at Elyria, Ohio, a plant engaged in the production of small motors and plastic products. Part of this
plant consists of a powerhouse containing a boiler room
and engine room. In the former are four boilers. These
supply the steam required to drive three large electrical
generators which are the source of power for the entire
plant, and to create the high steam-pressures and air-pressures employed in molding plastics. In the engine room,
besides the generators, are compressors, engines, and other
equipment. All this machinery, in both rooms, .constitutes an interrelated and interdependent system. It must
be carefully and skillfully tended at all times in order to
capacity' in section 13 (a) (1) of the Act shall mean any employee
"(a) whose primary duty consists of the management of the establishment in which he is employed or of a customarily recognized
department or subdivision thereof, and
"(b) 'who customarily and regularly directs the work of other
employees therein, and
"(c) who has the authority to hire or fire other employees or whose
suggestions and recommendations as to the hiring or firing and as to
the advancement and promotion or any other change of status of
other employees will be given particular weight, and
"(d) who customarily and regularly exercises discretionary powers,
and
"(e) who is compensated for his services on a salary basis at not
less than $30 per week (exclusive of board, lodging, or other facilities), and
"(f) whose hours of work of the same nature as that performed by
nonexempt employees do not exceed 20 percent of the number of
hours worked in the workweek by the nonexempt employees under
*his direction; provided that this subsection (f) shall not apply in
the case of an employee who is in sole charge of an independent
establishment or a physically separated branch establishment."
7 See Helliwell v. Haberman, 140 F. 2d 833, 834 (C. C. A. 2);
Fletcher v. Grinnell Brothers, 150 F. 2d 337, 340-341 (C. C. A. 6);
Smith v. Porter,143 F. 2d 292, 294 (C. C. A. 8).

WALLING v. GENERAL INDUSTRIES CO. 549
545

Opinion of the Court.

maintain the power and pressure required for continuous
24-hour operation of the -plant, to avoid damage to the
tremendous investment in the machinery itself, and to
guard against the fearful consequences of an explosion.
During the period covered by the evidence, the powerhouse was manned by the following personnel. At the top
was the chief engineer, who apparently adhered to no precise duty-hours, but was customarily present most of the
morning and afternoon and subject to call, in the event of
an emergency, twenty-four hours a day. Directly under
and responsible to him were the three "operating engineers" whose status is in issue. They worked consecutive eight or eight and one-half hour shifts, one of them
being present in the powerhouse at all times. Finally,
there were an unspecified number of firemen and coalpassers, who, collectively, were also on twenty-four hour
duty.
The engineers in question were paid regular monthly
salaries of more than $200 per month, for which they
regularly worked six-shift weeks. They received sick
leave, vacations with pay, bonuses, insurance, and pension
rights usually reserved for supervisory employees.
The
engineers were in charge of the powerhouse
and
performed the duties generally incident to direct supervision of a highly mechanized operation. Respondent's
vice president and factory manager testified that they
acted as foremen of the firemen and coal-passers. This
testimony was corroborated by other facts. In July,
1944, two months before the complaint in this case was
filed, the engineers signed agreements with respondent
.stating their desire "to be regarded as Foremen, as in the
past, with Foremen privileges and continue on a salary
basis." Three weeks later the International Brotherhood of Firemen, Oilers and Helpers abandoned a longcontested claim of -right to represent the engineers,
thereby formally recognizing their supervisory status.
* Indeed, the nature of the operations in the powerhouse

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

was such that the immediate and continuous supervision
of trained persons was indispensable, and there were concededly no other employees to give such supervision.
The engineers were required to maintain constant observation of all machinery in the powerhouse, and to make
regular inspections and necessary repairs. In addition
they were required to spend a small part of their time in
oiling and cleaning the engines.
The District Court, having made findings substantially
as stated above, proceeded to make additional findings of
the existence of each of the facts on which an executive
status, as defined by the Regulations, is made to
depend.
We believe that the evidentiary facts afford an adequate basis for the inferences drawn by the Court in
making such additional findings. At the least, we think
that in drawing such inferences the Court was not clearly
wrong, and conclude that the findings should therefore
have been left undisturbed.' The Circuit Court of
Appeals' rejection of those findings cannot rest on the
conflicting testimony of petitioner's witnesses. The District Court heard the witnesses, and was the proper judge
of their credibility.9
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting.

In my opinion the Circuit Court of Appeals correctly
found that the evidence is not sufficient to sustain the
findings upon which the District Court concluded that
8 Rule 52 (a), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; Lawson v. United
States Mining Co., 207 U. S. 1, 12; Butte & Superior Copper Co. v.
Clark-MontanaRealty Co., 249 U. S. 12, 30. See District of Columbia v. Pace,320 U. S. 698,701.
9
Rule 52 (a), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; Adamson v. Gilliland, 242 U. S. 350; United States v. United Shoe Machinery Co.,
247 U. S. 32, 37, 38, 41.

WALLING v. GENERAL INDUSTRIES CO. 551
545

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

the operating engineers are exempt under § 13 (a) (1)
of the Fair Labor Standards Act. It said, unanimously:
"The District Court found as a fact that Stegman,
Page and Spooner were employed as foremen or
supervisors of the department, with power to supervise the work of firemen and coal-passers in the boilerroom; that they customarily and regilarly directed
the work of other employees in the department, and
customarily exercised discretionary powers. We
think these findings are not sustained by the evidence. The work done by the engineers was highly
skilled mechanical work. While the machinery was
vital to the plant, dangerous and complicated, its
operation involved no exercise of discretion, but
merely the proper application of the skilled engineering training which these men had received. Although the three engineers were responsible for the
proper operation of the machinery during their shifts,
and, as the factory manager testifies, 'in charge of
management of the property,' none of them could
fire or hire or give orders to any man in the boilerroom. Latteman, the chief engineer, who was present at the plant during one shift and on call 24 hours
a day and seven days a week, was in full charge of the
department. While Latteman might act on information from Stegman, Page, or Spooner, during the
period involved, orders emanated only from him. It
is not shown that Stegman, Page or Spooner ever
made any recommendation concerning the change in.
status of the boiler-men. It was essential to have
proper steam pressure in the boiler-room, but if the
three engineers desired in this connection to secure
action from the firemen and coal-passers, they had
to secure an order from Latteman. This evidence
is not contradicted." 155 F. 2d 711,714.

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

330 U. S.

An independent examination of the record confirms the
Court of Appeals' conclusions. It discloses that on one
or two occasions an operating engineer tried to give orders
to firemen or coal passers in the boiler room, but in each
instance those men refused to follow them and took their
orders solely from Latteman. This falls far short at least
of the regular and customary supervision required by
§§ 541.1 (a) and (b) of the controlling regulations to
make the exemption operative.
Since the Court does not reach other questions presented on the record, I express no opinion concerning
them.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and

IR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

join in

this dissent.

KOTCH

ET AL.

v.

BOARD OF RIVER PORT PILOT

COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF NSW

ORLEANS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 291.

Argued February 5, 6, 1947.-Decided March 31, 1947.

1. The pilotage law of Louisiana requires that ocean-going vessels,
other than coastal vessels whose pilotage is subject exclusively
to federal regulation, shall be piloted through the Mississippi River
approaches to the port of New Orleans, and in the port, only by
pilots appointed by the Governor. Pilots so appointed have the
status of state officers. Only those are eligible for appointment
as state pilots who, in addition to other specific qualifications,
have served an apprenticeship of six months under state pilots and
who are certified by a Board composed of state, pilots. Appellants,
experienced in piloting coastal vessels on the river and in the port,
and posse.;ig all of the, statutory qualifications except the six
months' apprenticeship under state pilots, were denied appointment
as state pilots. Seeking judicial relief, appellants alleged that the
incumbent pilots generally selected as apprentices only relatives
and friends of incumbents; that the selections were made by
electing prospective apprentices into a pilots' association, formed
under authority of state law; that since "membership . . .has

