OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

330 U. S.

WALLING, WAGE AND HOUR ADMINISTRATOR,
v. PORTLAND TERMINAL CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 336.

Argued January 17, 1947.-Decided February 17, 1947.

For many years a railroad has .given to prospective yard brakemen
a practical course of training lasting seven or eight days. Under
the supervision of a yard crew, each trainee first learns routine
activities by observation and is then gradually permitted to do
actual work under close scrutiny. His activities do not displace
any of the regular employees, who do most of the work themselves
and must stand immediately by to supervise what the trainee does.
The trainee's work does not expedite the railroad's business, but
may, and sometimes does, actually impede and retard it. Trainees
who complete the course satisfactorily and are certified as competent are listed as eligible for employment when needed. Prior
to October 1, 1943, trainees received no pay'or allowance of any
kind; but, since that date, those who prove their competency
and are listed as eligible for employment are given a retroactive
allowance of $4 per day for their training period. Held:
1. Such a trainee is not an "employee" within the meaning' of
§ 3 (e) of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Pp. 152-153.
2. Section 14, which authorizes the Wage and Hour Administrator
to permit the employment of learners and apprentices at less than
the minimum wage prescribed by the Act, is inapplicable to such
trainees; since it relates only to learners who are in "employment"
and carries no implication that all instructors must either get a
permit or pay minimum wages to all learners. Pp. 151-152.
155 F. 2d 215, affirmed.

The Wage and Hour Administrator sued 'a railroad to
enjoin alleged violations of §§ 15 (a) (2) and 15 (a) (5)
of the Fair Labor Standards Act, 52 Stat. 1060. The
District Court denied the injunction. 61 F. Supp. 345.
The Circuit Court of 'Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 215.
This Court granted. certiorari. 329 U. S. 696. Affirmed,
p. 153.

WALLING v. PORTLAND TERMINAL CO.

149

Opinion of the Court.

148

William S. Tyson argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Stanley M. Silverberg and Morton Lif tin.
E. Spencer Miller argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an action brought by petitioner against respondent in a Federal District Court to enjoin an alleged violation of §§ 15 (a) (2) and 15 (a) (5) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act, 52 Stat. 1060, 1068, 29 U. S. C. §§ 215
(a) (2), (5) which requires as to the employees covered
by the Act the maintenance of records concerning their
wages and the payment to them of minimum *ages. The
District Court denied the injunction on the ground that
the particular persons involved were not employees, 61
F. Supp. 345, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
on the same ground, one judge dissenting. 155 F. 2d 215.
See also Wallihg v. Jacksonville Terminal Co., 148 F. d
768. Certiorari was granted because of the importance
of the questions involved to the administration of the
Act. 329 U. S. 696. The findings of fact by the District
Court, approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and not
challenged here, show:
For, many years the respondent railroad has given a
course of practical training to prospective yard brakemen.
This training is a necessary requisite to entrusting them
with the important work brakemen must do. An applicant for such jobs is never accepted until he has had this
preliminary training, the average length of which is seven
or eight days. If accepted for the training course, an
applicant is turned over to a yard crew for instruction.
Under this supervision, he first learns the routine activities by observation, and is then gradually permitted to
do actual work under close scrutiny. His activities do

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

not displace any of the regular employees, who do most
of the work themselves and must stand immediately by
to supervise whatever the trainees do, 'The applicant's
work does not expedite the company-business, but may,
and sometimes does, actually imped e and 'retard it. If
these trainees complete their course of instruction satisfactorily and 'are certified as competent. their names are
included in a list from which the company can draw when
their services are needed. Unless they complete the training and are certified as competent, they are not placed on
the list. Those who are certified and not immediately put
to work constitute a pool of qualified workmen available to
the railroad when needed. Trainees received no pay or
allowance of any kind prior to October 1, 1943. At that
time, however, the respondent and the collective bargaining agent, the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, agreed
that, for the war period, men who proved their competency
and were thereafter listed as accepted and available for
work as brakemen should be given a retroactive allowance
of $4 per day for their training period. The findings do
not indicate that the railroad ever undertook to pay, or the
trainees ever expected to receive, any remuneration for the
training period other than the contingent allowance.
The Fair Labor Standards Act fixes the minimum wage
that employers must pay all employees who work in activities covered by the Act.' There is' no question but that
these.-trainees do work in the kind of activities covered
by the Act. Consequently, if they'are employees within
the Act's meaning, their employment is governed by the
minimum wage provisions. But in determining who are
"employees". under, the Act, common law employee categories or employer-employee classifications under other
statutes are not of controlling significance. See N. L.R.B.
v. Hearst Publications,322 U. S.111, 128-129. This Act
contai'ns its own definitions, comprehensive enough to require its application to many persons and working rela-

WALLING v. PORTLAND TERMINAL CO.
148

151

Opinion of the Court.

tionships which, prior to this Act, were not deemed to fall
within an emlloyer-employee category. See United
States v. Rosenwasser,323 U. S. 360, 362-363.

Without doubt the Act covers trainees, beginners; apprenc's, or learners if they are employed to work for an
employer for compensation. This is shown by § 14 of the
Act which empowers the Administrator to grant special
certificates for the employment of learners, apprentices
and handicapped persons at less than the general minimum wage.* The language of this section and its legislative history reveal its purpose. Many persons suffer
from such physical handicaps, and many others have so
little experience in particular vocations that they are
unable to get and hold jobs at standard wages. Consequently, to impose a minimum wage as to them might
deprive them of all opportunity to secure work, thereby
defeating one of the Act's purposes, Which was to increase
opportunities for gainful employment. On the other
hand, to have written a blanket exemption of all of them
from the Act's provisions might have left open a way
for wholesale evasions. Flexibility of wage rates forthem
was therefore provided under the safeguard of administrative permits. This section plainly means that employers who hire beginners, learners, or handicapped personis,
*"The Administrator, to the extent necessary in order to prevent
curtailment of opportunities for employment; shall by regulations or
by orders provide for (1) the employment of learners, of 'apprentices,
and of messengers employed exclusively in delivering letters 'and messages, under special certificates issued pursuant to regulations of the
Administrator, at such wages lower than-the minimum wage applicable under section 6 and subject to such limitations as to time,
number, proportion, and length of service as the Administrator shall
prescribe ....
"
14 (1) Fair Labor Standards Act, 52 Stat. 1060,
1068, 29 U. S. C. §214 (1). See also §13 (a) (7). § 14 (2) provides that handicapped persons may be employed at less than minimumi wages where the Administrator permits. 52 Stat. 1060, 1068,
29 U. S. C. § 214 (2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

and expressly or impliedly agree to pay them compensation, must pay them the prescribed minimum wage, unless
a permit not to pay such minimum has been obtained from
the Administrator. On the other hand, the section carries
no implication that all instructors must either get a permit
or pay minimum wages to all learners; the section only
relates to learners who are in "employment." And the
meaning of that term is found in other sections of the
Act.
Section 3 (g) of the Act defines "employ" as including
"to suffer or permit to work" and § 3 (e) defines "employee" as "any individual employed by an employer."
The definition "suffer or permit to work" was obviously
not intended to stamp all persons as employees who, without any express or implied compensation agreement, might
work for their own advantage on the premises of another.
Otherwise, all students would be employees of the school
or college they attended, and as such entitled to receive
minimum wages. So ilso, such a construction would
sweep under the Act each person who, without promise
or expectation of compensation, but solely for his personal
purpose or pleasure, worked in activities carried on .by
other persons either for their pleasure or profit. But there
is no indication from the legislation now before us that
Congress intended to outlaw such relationships as these.
The Act's purpose as to wages was to insure that every
person whose employment contemplated compensation
should not be compelled to sell his services for less than
the prescribed minimum wage. The definitions of "employ" and of "employee" are broad enough to accomplish
this. But, broad as they are, they cannot be interpreted
so as to make a person whose work serves only his own
interest an employee of another person who gives him aid
and instruction. Had these trainees taken courses in railroading in a public or private vocational school, wholly

WALLING v. PORTLAND TERMINAL CO.
148

FRANKFURTER,

153

J., concurring.

disassociated from the railroad, it could not reasonably be
suggested that they were employees of the school within
the meaning of the Act. Nor could they, in that situation,
have been considered as employees of the railroad merely
because the school's graduates would constitute a labor
pool from which the railroad could later draw its employees. The Fair Labor Standards Act was not intended
to penalize railroads for providing, free of charge, the same
kind of instruction at a place and in a manner which would
most greatly benefit the trainees.
Accepting the unchallenged findings here that the railroads receive no "immediate advantage" from any work
done by the trainees, we hold that they are not employees
within the Act's meaning. We have not ignored the argument that such a holding may open up a way for evasion
of the law. But there are neither findings nor charges
here that these arrangements were 'either conceived or
carried out in such a way as to violate either the letter
or the spirit of the minimum wage law. We therefore
have no case before us in which an employer has evasively
accepted the services of beginners at pay less that the legal
minimum without having obtained permits from the Administrator. It will be time enough to pass upon such
evasions when it is contended that they have occurred.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.
In this case, as well as in the companion case, No. 335,
post, p. 158, we have a judgment of two courts based on
findings with ample evidence to warrant such findings.
It was solely on this ground that I agreed to affirmance
in Tennessee Coal Co. v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S. 590,
and on this basis alone I -think the judgments in both
these cases, Nos. 335 and 336, should be affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

330 U. S.

concurring.

I, too, would affirm this judgment. But my reason is
not that stated in the Court's opin.ion.
I have never understood that the Fair Labor Standards
Act was intended or fitted to regulate labor relations, except to substitute its own minimum wage rate for any that
was substandard and an overtime rate for hours above the
number it set. It, of course, like other statutes, can and
should be applied to strike down sham and artifice
invented to evade its commands.
But the complex labor relations of this country, which
vary from locality to locality, from industry to industry,
and perhaps even from unit to unit of the same industry,
were left to be regulated by collective bargaining under the
National Labor Relations Act. It would be easy to demonstrate from the Act's legislative history that such Was the
intention of Congress and that it had good grounds to believe this the tenor of the legislation. Organized employees on one side, free of employer domination or coercion, and employers on the other side best know the needs
and customs of their trades; they know something of the
strain their industry'can stand; and after all, it is they who
feel the effects. Given thus the machinery to change customs that had outlived their time or, in'the alternative, to
adjust wage rates to take account of those customs, it was,
I think, our duty to pay at least some deference to the customs and contracts of an'industry and not to apply the Fair
Labor Standards Act to put industry and labor in a legal
strait jacket of our own design.
From the beginning it was apparent that there were
but two ways of giving real force and meaning to this
Act without throwing all industry and labor into strife
and litigation. One was to give decisiveness and integrity
in borderline cases to collective bargaining. Cf. J. I. Case
Co. v. N. L. R. B., 321 U. S. 332; Order of Railroad Telegraphers v. Railway Express Agency, Inc., 321 U. S. 342.

WALLING v. PORTLAND TERMINAL CO.
148

JACKSON, J.,

155

concurring.

The other was to give strength and, where possible, decisiveness in doubtful cases to the studied rulings of the Administrator, as the Court also at moments seemed inclined
to do. Armour & Co. v. Wantock, 323 U. S. 126; Skidmore
v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S. 134. Both of these considerations
as bases for decision were thrown to the four winds in
Jewell Ridge Corp. v. United Mine Workers, 325 U. S.
161.
This Court has foreclosed every means by which any
claim, however dubious, under this statute or under the
Court's elastic and somewhat unpredictable interpretations of it, can safely or finally be settled, except by litigation to final judgment. We have held the individual
employee incompetent to compromise or release any part
of whatever claim he may have. Brooklyn Savings Bank
v. O'Neil, 324 U. S. 697; cf. D. A. Schulte, Inc. v. Gangi,
328 U. S. 108. Then we refused to' follow the terms of
agreements collectively bargained. Jewell Ridge Corp. v.
United Mine Workers, 325 U. S. 161. No kind of agreement between the parties in interest settling borderline
cases in a way satisfactory to themselves, however fairly
arrived at, is today worth the paper it is written on. Interminable litigation, stimulated by a contingent reward
to attorneys, is necessitated by the present state of the
Court's decisions.
In the view that the judicial function should pay some
deference to findings of fact as to customs of industry in
applying this Act, I favored affirmance of the award to
miners in the case of Tennessee Coal Co. v. MuscodaLocal,
321 U. S. 590, because two lower courts had made findings
of fact that under the contracts and conditions in those
particular iron mines the employees were entitled to have
counted as working time certain periods spent in travel.
The judgment was supported, too, by the rulings of the
Administrator. Those reasons were rejected by a majority of the Court which went on to lay down rules of
decision which take no account of contract or custom.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JAcKsoN, J., concurring.

330 U. S.

Then came the case of Jewell Ridge Corp. v. United
Mine Workers, 325 U. S. 161, in which the relationships
were fixed by a deep-rooted custom in the industry of
which both parties took account and embodied in collective
bargaining agreements and which was reflected in the Administrator's rulings made at the request of the very union
that was repudiating them. But'a majority of the Court
again rejected the contention that this Act was not intended to interfere with long-established customs which
entered into collective wage agreements, and it reaffirmed
a flat declaration as follows:
"But in any event it is immaterial that there may
have been a prior custom or cottract not to consider
certain work within the compass of the workweek
or not to compensate employees for certain portions
of their work. The Fair Labor Standards Act was
not designed to codify or perpetuate those customs
and contracts which allow an employer to claim all
of an employee's time while compensating him only
for a part of it. Congress intended, instead, to
achieve a uniform national policy of guaranteeing
compensation for all work or employment engaged
in by employees covered by the Act. Any custom or
contract falling short of that basic policy, like an
agreement to pay less than the minimum wage requirements, cannot be utilized to deprive employees
of their statutory rights." 325 U. S. at 167; Tennessee Coal Co. v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S. 590,
602.
The same doctrine was then pressed into other fields
of industry by the decision in Anderson v. Mt. Clemens
Pottery Co., 328 U. S. 680, which declared certain time
spent on the premises of the Pottery Company must be
compensated "regardless of contrary custom or contract."
328 U. S. at 692.

WALLING v.PORTLAND TERMINAL CO.
148

JACKSON,

157

J., concurring.

The Court evidently stands upon and reiterates the
basic doctrine that the Act is one to regulate industry labor
relations, for it says: "This Act contains its own definitions, comprehensive enough to require its application to
many persons and working relationships, which prior to
this Act, were not deemed to fall within an employeremployee category."'
The claimants now before us ask to participate in
the judicial largess. They believe that they are entitled
to be paid for the time that they spent on the railroad's
premises, under the railroad's direction, performing railroad labor, in order to learn to qualify for railroad jobs
when the railroad might need them. The Court does not
even attempt to distinguish the foregoing cases on which
their claim is based.
This case again requires us to make a choice between
grounds of decision similar to the choice that was open to
us in the cited cases and I think it is timely for the
Court to reconsider its approach to cases under this Act.
We may purport' to find grounds for denying these claims
in an interpretation of the Act, although Congress never
intended to regulate the subject at all. Or we can use
as valid ground for denying these claims the concurrent
findings by two lower courts of a good faith understanding
of the parties, following a long-established custom of an
industry whose labor relations have long been subject to
collective bargaining. I. concur only on the latter
ground.
1 I did not understand when I concurred in United States v. Rosenwasser, 323 U. S. 360, that it so held. It applied the Act to piecework employees. Piecework employment is a well-known form of
employment. that has existed perhaps as long as employment at a fixed
hourly or daily wage. I understood, and still understand, the Rosenwasser case to hold only that this form of employment is not excluded
from the terms of the Act.

