SUPREME COURT.
Kanouse v. Martin.

not necessary to be decided by this court. Whereupon it is
now hereby ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so
certified to the said Circuit Court.

CORNELIUS KANOUSE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, 12. JOHN

M.

MTARTIN.

Where a citizen of New Jersey was sued in a State court in New York, and filed his
petition to remov6 the case into the Circuit Court of the United States, offering a
ond with surety, the amount claimed in tbe'declaration being one thousand dollars, it became the duty of the State court to accept tile surety, and proceed no
further in the cause.
Consequently, it was erroneous to allow the plaintiff to amend the record and reduce
his claim to four hundred and ninety-nine dollars.
The case having gone on to judgment, and been carried by writ of error to the Superior Court, without the petition for removal into the Circuit Court of the United
States, it was the duty of the Superior Court to go behind the technical record, and
inquire whether or not the judgment of the coiirt below was erroneous.
The defendant was not bound to plead to the jurisdiction o' the bourt below; such a
step would have been inconsistent with his right that all proceedings should cease
when his petition for removal was filed.
The Superior Court being the highest court to which the case could be carried, a writ
of error lies to examine its judgment, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,

THis case was brought up from the Superior Court of the
city of New York, by a writ of error issued under the 25th sec.
tion of the Judiciary Act.
A motion was made at the last term of this court, by ALIr.
Martin,to dismiss the case, for want of jurisdiction, which ii
reported in 14 Howard, 23.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 111r. Garr, for the plaintiff in error, and .IIr.
Martin, for the defendant.
The counsel for the plainitiff in error first filed an elaborate
brief, to which the counsel for the defendant replied. Then
there was filed a reply to defendant's argumnent; and then a
counter statement and points by the counsel for the defendant
in error. From all these, the reporter collec':s the views of the
respective counsel, as far as they concerned the points upon
which the judgment of the court rested.
AThr. Garr, for the plaintiff in error.
The questions arising in thi.s case'are the following:
1st. Whether the Court of Common Pleas had jurisdiction
to proceed further in the cause, and to render a judgment

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

199

Kanouso v. Martin.

therein, after the defendant had duly petitioned for the removal
of it to the Circuit Court of the United States.
2d. Whether the Superior Court of the city of New York
erred in refusing to look beyond the judgment-roll, and in excluding from its consideration the proceedings brought before
it by the allegation of diminution and certiorari,that proved
the existence of the errors complained of.
3d. Whether the Court of Appeals of the State of New York
erred in holding that the defendant below was precluded from
his writ of error, by it not appearing on the record that he had
appealed from the order of the Court of Common Pleas, denying his application to remove the cause.
4th. As to the sufficiency of the matters set forth by the defendant in error in his plea to the special assignment of errors,
and in the subsequent pleadings that terminated in a demurrer.
First. I. The defendant below had, at the time of entering
his appearance in the Court of Common Pleas, a legal right to
remove the cause to the Circuit Court of the 'United States, if
the matter then in dispute exceeded the sum or value of $500.
12th sect. of Judiciary Act of 1789.
IL That the matter then in dispute exceeded the sum or
value of $500, was manifest by uncontradicted evidence of
the highest nature, viz. the declaration in the cause, the sum
claimed in which (when the action is for damages) is the sole
criterion by which to determine the amount in dispute. Martin
v. Taylor, 1 Wash. C. C. Rep. 2; Muns v. Dupont, 2 Ib.463;
Sherman v. Clark, 3 McLean's Rep. 91; Gordon v. Longest,
16 Peters, 97; .1 Kent's Com. 6th ed. 302, note b; Opinion of
Jtdges Nelson and Betts, in Martin v. Kanouse, U. S. Circuit
Court, April 2.5, 1846, Appendix, p. 37.
III. By the filing of the petition, and the offer of the surety
prescribed by the statute, (on the 18th of September, 1845,) the
defendant's right to a removal of the cause was perfected and
absolutery vested; and it thereupon instantly became "the
duty of the State court to accept the surety, and proceed no
further in the cause." 12th sect. of Judiciary Act.
IV. The Common Pleas erred in afterwards receiving (on
the 1st of October) an affidavit of the plaintif, reducing his
demand below $500, and thereupon denying (on the 6th of
October) the motion for removal, because,
1. It is only where property, and not ddmages, is the matter
in dispute, that the court, for the purpose of determining the
amount, looks at any evidence beyond the .declaration. In
such a case, the court will receive affidavits, in order to ascertain the value. Cooke v. Woodrow, 5 Cranch, 13.
2. Mr. Mlartin's affidavit, had it even been admissible, was

SUPREME COURIT.
Kanouse v. Maxtin.

insuffizient. It did not deny any of the facts alleged in th-.
petition, nor did it even allege that there had been a mistake
in the declaration, and that he had not intended to demand by
it a sum exceeding $500. On the contrary, the affidavit merely
states that the demand made by the declaration was more than
"the actual amount due- to him ;" that su:ch amount was less
than $.500, and that he "now," (that is, at the time of making
the affidavit, being thirteen days. after the filing of the petition,
and after the defendant's right to a removal had become perfect,) limits and reduces his claim to the sum of $499.56.
3. The act of Congress does not provide that the State
court may retain its jurisdiction, if the plaintiff will reduce his
demand below $500.
4. The jurisdiction depends upon the sl:ate of things at the
time of the action brought, and is not affected by any subsequent event. Mollan v. Torrance, 9 -Wheat.'537; Keppel v.
Heinrich, 1 Barb. S. C. IRep. 449.
If Mr. Martin, the plaintiff, had, after the bringing of his
action, removed from the State of New York, and become a
citizen of the same State with the defenlant, his change of
residence would not have restored jurisdiction to the Court of
Common Plea,
Clark v. Mlatthewson, 12 Pet. 164-171.
Upon the same principle, his making an affidavit reducing below $500 the claim Avhich he therein admitted he had made by
his declaration, could not restore the jurisdiction.
55. By the defendant's application to remove the cause, the
Court of Common Pleas lost jurisdiction over it; and as that
jurisdiction could not be restored by any subsequent act of the
plaintiff, or proceeding in that court, it follows that the plaintiff's affidavit reducing his demand, the amending of the declaration, and the sub'sequent proceedings in the cause, were coram
non judice, and, as such, erroneous and void. Wright v. Wells,
Pet. C. C. Rep. 220; United States v. Myers, 2 Brock. C. C.
Rep. 516; Gorden i. Longest, 16 Pet. 97; Hill v. Henderson,
6 Smed. & 'Marsh. 351; CampbeJ,3v. Walli'm' Lessee, 1 Mart.
& Yerg. 266.
,6.. The errors complained of were not in matters of mere
practice, or matters in regard to -which the- court .below had an
arbitrary discretioi.
They were in matters of substance; they
consisted in the court's withholding a right'to which the defend,
ant was entitled under the act of Congress, and in their persisting to exercise jurisdiction, and to amend the declaration, and
render judgment, after it had "become their duty to proceed
no further in the cause."
"WWheie the law has given to the parties rights, as growing
cut of a certain 9tate of facts, there discretion ceases." Gordon

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

201

Rai ouse v. Martin.

v. Longest, supra; People v. Superior Court of New York, 5
Wend. 125, and 10 ib. 291.
Mltr. MaIartfiz, for defendant in error.
First Point. The State court had jurisdiction of -the cause
until the plaintiff in error fully complied with all the requirements of the United States statute, and until the State court
had so decided, and made an order for its removal.
The New York Common Pleas is a common-law court, and
had an original jurisdiction of this cause, of which it could not
be deprived by a paramount statute. Ex parte Bollman, 4
Cranch, 75. This jurisdiction,,and the right-of the State court
to decide on the application for a removal of the cause, is conceded in the act of Congress, by requiring the presentment of
a petition for such removal.
But it is insisted, by the plaintiff in error, at pages 14, 15, and
16, of his argument, that "by the filing of the petition, aud the
offer of the surety prescribed by the statute, the defendant's
right to a removal of the cause was perfected and absolutely
vested; and it thereupon instantly became the duty of the
State court to accept the surety and proceed no further in the
cause;" and that, "by the defendant's application to remove
the cause, the Court of Common Pleas lost jurisdiction over it."
The court %ill observe that nothing is here said about the
appearance required by the act; but it is contended that an
instantaneous change of jurisdiction was effected by filing the
petition and offering the surety only.
For the sake of argument, let it be supposed that a false
appearance has been entered, and a spurious petition filed, and
insufficient sureties offered, - does a change of jurisdiction instantly follow? If it does, then the State court can have no
opportunity to protect its own jurisdiction or the rights of its
suitors against fraud-no time to look into the petition or
bond, to see if the one be properly authenticated, or the other
duly executed; or to ascertain whether the real amount in controversy exceeds $500 or not.
Upon this theory the State court -is paralyzed, and struckdumb and blind, by the mere presentation of a set of papers,
no matter how defective in form or fraudulenit in execution;
and no matter what evidence may be produced- an affidavit
or a bill of particulars, to satisfy the court that the amount is
less than $500, -and no matter how well, satisfied the court
may be of fraud in the papers, or deficiency in the amount to
entitle the applicant to remove the cause.
This is probably too absurd to be seriously maintained, even

SUPREME

COURT.

Kanouse v. Martin.

in this case; and it will doubtless be considered that the State
court has a right to judge of the regularity and sufficiency of
the applicant's papers; and that jurisdiction must remain with
the State court long enough, at least, to enable the court to
inspect them, and decide upon their sufficiency.
If this be conceded, as it is submitted it must be, it must
also be conceded that the court may retain jurisdiction to ascertain the true amount in controversy; and if it may retain jurisdiction an hour for these purposes, it may retain it for such
further time as may be reasonable and necessary to enable the
parties to obtain the requisite evidence to satisfy the court upon
any of the matters of which it may inquire. And this is destructive of the whole theory of an instantaneous change of jurisdiction.
These tests of the plaintiff's theory show its absurdity, and
the correctness of the decision of the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York, on the defendant's motion in this case in that court.
On that motion it was held, in substar ce and effect, that a
cause was not actually removed into the United States Circuit
Court, until certified copies of the papers in the State court,
and of an order for their transmission, were sent to, and entered
in the United States court.
This decision, if correct, sets the question of the actual jurisdiction of this case, pending the application for its removal, at
rest. It also furnishes a sufficient reason for the plaintiff's unwillingness to apply to that court, as directed by the Supreme
Court of the State, for a mandamus to compel the New York
Common Pleas to grant an order for the removal of the cause.
He had not filed copies of his papers in the United States
court, so authenticated as to warrant the United States court
in proceeding upon them, and therefore had not done what was
necessary to-authorize him to ask the assistance of that court
had he been otherwise entitled to it.
Second Point. The plaintiff in error did not bo comply with
the requirements of the 12th section of thE United States Judiciary Act, as to divest the State court of its jurisdiction and
entitle himself to an order for the removal of the cause, bc ;ause
he did not enter his appearance in the State court at the tirae of
filing his petition, &c. See United States Stat, at Large, p. 79.
Ttird Point. The State court properly retained its jurisdiction of the cause; and was not bound to grant an order for its
removal into the United States court, because it did not appear to the satisfaction of the State Judge, that the amount in
controversy exceeded $500, exclusive of costs.
By the 12th section of the United States act, before cited,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

'203

Kanouse v. Martin.

this is expressly declared to be necessary to entitle the applicant
to a removal of the cause. The terms of the statute are cleai
and unequivocal. The amount must "be made to appear to
the satisfaction of the court."
This language is peculiar to the 12th section of this act, nd
is not found in the 22d section of it, authorizing the removal
of causes from the circuit courts to this court by writ of error,
nor in the act of 1803, (2 United States Stat. p. 244,) authorizing like removals by appeal where the amount exceeds $2,000;
nor in the act of 1816, (3 United States Stat. 261,) authorizing
writs of error to the United States Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, where the amount exceeds $1,000.
In none of these sections is a discretion expressly given to the
court from which the cause is to be removed, as in the 12th
section.
This constitutes the basis of a very important distinction between this case and most of the cases cited by the plaintiff in
error; and when taken in connection with the fact, that in no
one of those cases was there any dispute about the amount in
controversy before- the State court, it renders them wholly inapplicable to this case, as authorities, to show that the declaration is conclusive as to amount.
Upon this point they leave the present case entirely free from
the control of prior adjudications.
This distinction also furnishes a very conclusive proof that
Congress did not intend that the same rules of ividence should
be applied in ascertaining the amount in dispute in these two
classes of cases - else why declare in the one that the amount
mut be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court, and
remain silent in the other ?
The inference from all this is irresistible, that Congress meant
to give the State courts a discretion, not only as to the amount,
but as to the evidence to show it.
In Gordon v. Longest, (16 Pet. 97, which is the only reported
case that has come before this court under the twelfth section,)
the general discretion of the State judge was admitted by this
court; although "in that case" the court held that a claim of
$1,000 in the writ was conclusive, there being no evidence before the State judge, or in this court, that the amount was less.
Under this state of facts it was held that, although the State
court had a discretion as to the amount in controversy, yet it
was a "legal discretion," to be reasonably exercised, and that
"on the facts of the case, the State judge had no discretion"
in that case, and could not arbitrarily refuse to allow a removal
of it, when it appeared by undisputed evidence that the amount
exceeded $600.

204

SUPREME

COURT.

Kanonse v. blartin.

This, it is submitted, is all that was decided in Gordon v.
Longest; and if the court had gone as far as is contended for
by the plaintiff in this case, and had declared the evidence furnished by the writ or declaration to be absolutely conclusive
upon the State court, the decision would have been not only
against the manifest meaning of Congress, but inconsistent
with itself.
It would have been inconsistent with itself, because there is
nothing concerning the amount in dispute upon which a "legal
discretion" can be exercised, except evidence of the amount;
and if this court were to take away all discretion concerning
this evidence, by declaring this or that sort of evidence conclusive, it would be tantamount to a declaration that the State
courts have no discretion at all.
The amourit claimed must always be over or under $500, or
exactly-that sum; and it must always be made by writ, declaration, or complaint. If the claim be exactly $500 or under,
no application for a removal will ever be made. The only case,
therefore, in which any discretion at all can be exercised by a
State court is, where a claim is made for more than $500. And
if the mere claim were always conclusive, the amount would
thereby be unalterably fixed, and there would be no room left
for discretion.
From this examination of the facts and opinion in the above
case, it will be seen that it is a controlling authority for the defendant in error; and clearly shows that the State court is authorized by this statute to consider any legal evidence which
the parties may offer to satisfy the court of the true amount in
dispute; and that the judge had a right to receive and listen to
an affidavit in this case, in which it was solemnly sworn: "that
the amount of damages mentioned at the foot of the declaration in this cause, is not the-actual amount due to this deponent
as plaintiff in said cause, nor does it show the amount he seeks
or expects to recover therein; and the whole of said amount
really due deponent, and so sought to be recovered is less than
$500, and that he is now ready and willing, and hereby offers,
to settle and discontinue this suit on payment to him of a less
sum than $500, and to give the said defendant a full discharge
of and from all claims and demands which this deponent, as
plaintiff in this suit, has made, or can or may recover against
the defendant."
After hearing this affidavit, and on considering the facts
thereby disclosed in connection with the language of the act,
"and being satisfied that the actual amount in controversy
herein is less than $500," the judge denied the plaintiffs motion.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

205

Kanouse v. Martin.

In doing so, he looked at no authority but the act itself. Its
language seemed too clear and plain to be questioned, and he
exercised his judgment and discretion without hesitation; and
the plaintiff in error has not beeil able to find a court, from that
day to this, which doubted that he had the discretion, and exercised it rightly.
On this point, the plaintiff's own authorities are against him;
for, in Wright v. Wells, (Pet. C. C. Rep. 220,) Mr. Justice
Washington said: "the State court was not bound to grant
the removal, unless it was satisfied that the amount exceeded
$500."
In Campbell v. Wallen's Lessees, cited by the plaintiff from
1 Martin & Yerger's Rep. 268, the Supreme Court of Tennessee said, that "security need not be given until it has been
judicially decided that, upon the facts set forth in the petition,
as it respects citizenship, value of matter in dispute, &c., the
applicant is entitled to a removal." In the case now here, the
Supreme Court of the State of New York has said the same
thig in effect. See 2 Denio's Rep. 197.
In Carey v. Cobbet, 2 Yeates, 277, the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania said, that "a bill of exceptions will not lie against
the opinion of the court, in refusing the removal of an action
into the United States court;" and finally, this court itself, in
Gordon v. Longest, concedes a like discretion to the State
court.

All these cases arose on the twelfth section of the act, except
Carey v. Cobbet; and they are the only ones cited by the plain%
tiff which C'd so arise, except Muns v. Dupont, 2 Wash. C. C.
Rep. 463; and, in this latter case, Justice Washington listened
to, and relied on an affidavit as evidence to fix the amount in
controversy.
But it is said, at pages 14 and 1-5 of the plaintiff's argument,
that the original declaration "was uncontradicted evidence of the
highest nature," and that the Common Pleas erred in afterwards
receiving an affidavit of the plaintiff reducing the demand below $500."
In the first place, it is not true that a declaration, while in
paper, is evidence 11of the highest nature." If it were so, it
would settle the rights claimed under it, for it would be a record,
and could not be contradicted even by a plea.
It would settle the facts alleged in it beyond all controversy;
and the proposition is practically absurd.
A declaration before judgment is like any other paper in the
proceedings of a cause, and may be disputed and amended until
the matters alleged in it have been finally adjudicated and settled, and until it has been enrolled, and then it becomes a reVOL. xv.

18

206

SUPREME COURT.
Kanouse v. Martin.

cbrd, and is "the highest evidence," and not until then. 1 Salk.
329; 1 Ld. Raymond, 243- 9; -J. R. 290. Neither was the declaration "uncontradicted," as has already been shown.
In the next place, the statement, that the Common Pleas
received the plaintiff's affidavit, "reducing his demand below
$500," is not true; the affidavit did not " reduce the demand,"
nor was it received for that purpose.
It merely showed the true amount of the demand, and that
th6 plaintiff's attorney, Mr. Westervelt, had overstated it in the
declaration, and the affidavit was received for that purpose, and
for no other.
The true amount in controversy in this case was always less
than $500, and it never belonged to a class of cases of which
Congress intended the federal courts should have jurisdiction.
And what reason, founded either on public policy or private
right, can be assigned for depriving the State court of the means
of satisfying itself whether the actual amount is such as to entitle the applicant to a removal or not? '
In the United States v. Daniel, 4 Cranch, 316, a judgment
had been obtained in a United States circuit court for more
than $2,000, on the penalty of a bond of which the condition
was less than $2,000. On a motion to dismiss the writ of error
by which the judgment had been removed :into this court, it was
held, that the amount of the condition of the bond, and not of
the judgment, controlled the jurisdiction, and the writ was dismissed.
Why should not the true amount, and not the fictitious one,
be allowed to control the jurisdiction in the present case, as
well as in the one just cited? They both sound in damages;
the fiction in the one case was in the judgment, in the other in
the declaration.- Why should a declaration be considered more
conclusive than a judgment?
Fourth Point. "While a court has jurisdiction, it has a right
to decide any question which occurs in the cause."
Fifth Point. The plaintiff in error did not present the decision
of the New York Common Pleas in this case to the appellate
courts of the State of New York, as required by the laws of
that State, to enable those courts to review that decision; and
they have so decided; and this court will be governed by their
decisions on this point.
Finally, it is submitted, that the original jurisdiction of the
State court was not divested, nor the cause removed, by any
proceedings of the plaintiff in error.
First. Because the plaintiff in error did not pursue the regular course of practice in entering the cause in the United States
Circuit Court. See I Blatch. Rep. 150;

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

207

Kanouse v. Martin.

Second. Because" he did not enter his appearance in the State
court at the time of filing his petition for a removal, as required
by the United States statute.
Third. Because he did not make it appear, to the satisfaction
of the State court, that the matter in dispute exceeded the
sum of $500, exclusive of costs, as required by the same statute.
Fourth. That the State court, having jurisdiction of the
cause, had a right to make orders and proceed to judgment
therein.
Fifth. That it appears, from the' judgment of the '-w York
Superior Court and Court of Appeals, that no question arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States was decided by either of them; but only certain questions relating to
their own jurisdiction under local State laws, to review a chamber order, made by a single judge of an inferior State court,
and certain questions of costs. And it is further submitted,
that such decisions will not be revised by this court. And that
the refusal of Judge Daly, of the New York Common Pleas,
to grant an order for the removal of the cause, is the only decision in this case which this court will review. And that his
decision was right.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Superior Court of the city of
New York. Upon the return of the writ at the last term, the
defendant in error moved to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction,
This motion was overruled, and the opinion of the court is
reported in 14 Howard, 23. At the prescnt term, the case has
been submitted on its merits upon printed arguments filed by
the counsel for the two parties.
The action was, originally, a suit in the Court of Common
Pleas for the (,.ty and county of New York. The plaintiff was
a citizen of the State of New York, and the defendant a citizen
of the State of New Jersey; and at the time of entering his
appearance, he filed his petition for the removal of the cause
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern
district of New York, and offered a bond with surety; the form
of this bond, or the sufficiency of the surety does not appear to
have beeft objected to. The declaration then oil file demanded
damages in the sum of one thousand dollars. That was the
amount then in dispute between the parties. The words "matter in dispute," in the 12th section of the judiciary act, do not refer to disputes in the country, or the intentions or expectations of
the parties concerning them, but to the claim presented on the
record to the legal consideration of the court. What the plain-

SUPREME COURT.
Kanouse v. Martin.

tiff thus claims, is the matter in dispute, though that claim may
be incapable of proof, or only in part well founded. So it was
held under this section of the statute, an6. in reference to the
right of removal, in Gordon v. Longest, 16 Peters, 97; and the
same construction has been put upon the eleventh and twenty.
second sections of the jtdiciary act, which makes the jurisdiction of this court and the Circuit Court dependent on the
amount or value of "the matter in dispute." The settled rule
is, that until some further judicial proceedings have taken place,
showing upon the record that the sum demanded is not the
matter in dispute, that sum is the matter in dispute in an action
for damages. Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229; Wise v. The CoL
Turnpike Co. 7 Cranch, 276; Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Peters, 33;
Smith v. Honey, 3 Peters, 469; Den v. Wright, 1 Peters C. C.
R. 64; Miner v. Dupont, 2 Wash. C. C. R. 463; Sherman r.
Clark, 3 McLean, 91.
Without any positive provision of any act of Congress to
that effect, it has long been established, that when the jurisdiction of b, court of the United States has once attached, no
subsequent change in the condition of the parties would oust
it. Morgan v. Morgan, 12 Wheat. 290; Clarke v. Mathewson,
12 Peters, 165. Ar I consequently when, by an inspection of
the record, it appeared to the Court of Common Pleas that the
sum demanded in this action was one thousand dollars, and
when it further appeared that the plaintiff was a citizen of the
State of New York, and the defendant of the, State of New
Jersey, and that the latter had filed a proper bond with sufficient surety, a case under the twelfth section of the judiciary
act was made out, and, according to the terms of that law, it
was "then the duty of the State court tc accept the surety,
and proceed no further in the cause."
. But the court proceeded to make inquiry into the intention
of the plaintiff, not to claim of the defendant, the whole of the
matter then in dispute upon the record, and allowed the plaintiff to reduce the matter then in dispute to the sum of four
hundred and ninety-nine dollars, by an amendment of the
record. It thus proceeded further in the cause, which the act
of Congress forbids. All its subsequent proceedings, including
the judgment, were therefore erroneous.
But it is objected that this is a writ of error to the Superior
Court, and that by the local law of New York, that court could
not consider this error in the proceedings of the Court of Common Pleas, because it did not appear upon the record, which,
according to the law of the State, consisted only of the declaration, the evidence of its service, the entry of the appearance of
the defendant, the rule to plead, and the judgment for want of a

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

KanQuse v. Martin.

plea, and the assessment of damages; and that these proceedings, under the act of Congress, not being part of this technical
record, no error could be assigned upon them in the Superior
Court. This appears to have been the ground upon which
the Superior Court rested its decision. That it was correct,
according to the common and statute law of the State of New
York, may be conceded. But the act of Congress, which conferred on the defendant the privilege of removal, and pointed
out the mode in which it was to be claimed, is a law binding
upon all the courts of that State; and if that act both rendered
the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas erroneous, and in
effect gave the defendant a right to assign that error, though the
proceeding did not appear on the technical record, then, by force
of that act of Congress, the Superior Court w as bound to disregard the technical objection, and inspect these proceedings,
unless, which we shall presently consider, there was some
defect in its jurisdiction which disenabled it from doing so.
The reason why the Superior Court declined to inspect these
proceedings was, that the defendant did not llead them to the
jurisdiction of the Court of Common Pleas, and thus put them
on the record. And it is generally true, that a party claiming a
right under an act of Congress, must avail himself of some legal
means to place on the record that claim, and the facts on which
it rests; otherwise he cannot have the benefit of a reexamination
of the judgment upon a writ of error. But this duty does not
'exist in a case in which he cannot perform it without surrendering some part of the right which the act secured to him, and.in
which the court, where the matter is depending, is expressly
prohibited from taking any further proceeding. In this case,
the right of the defendant to remove the cause to the next term
of the Circuit Court was complete, and the power of the Court
of Common Pleas at an end. To require the defendant to
plead, would deny to him his right to have all proceedings in
-that court cease, and would make all benefit of that right
dependent on his joining in further proceedings in a court for-'
bidden by law to entertain them. It would engraft upon the
act of Congress a new proviso that, although the court was
required to proceed no further, yet it might proceed, if the
defendant should fail to plead to the jurisdiction; and that,
though the defendant had done all which the laws required, to
obtain the right to remove the suit, yet a judgment 'against him
would not be erroneous, unless he should do more.
In our opinion, therefore, the act of Congress not only conferred on the defendant the right to remove this suit, by filing
his petition and bond, but it made all subsequent proceedings
of the Court of Common Pleas erroneous, and necessarily
18*

210

SUPREME COURT.
Kanouse v. Martin.

required the court, to which the judgme:nt was carried by a
writ of error, to inspect those proceedings which showed the
judgment to be erroneous, and which could not be placed on
the technical record consistently with the act which granted the
right of removal.
It should be observed, that the judgment of the Superior
Court did not proceed upon any question of jurisdiction. If
it had quashed the writ of error, because the laws of the State
of'New York had not conferred jurisdiction to examine the
case, this court could not have treited that judgment as
erroneous. But entertaining jurisdiction of the writ of error, it
pronounced a judgment, "that the judgment aforesaid, in form
aforesaid given, be in all things affirmed and stand in full force
and effect;" and it did so, because the plaintiff in error, by
omitting to plead to the jurisdiction, had not placed on the
record those proceedings which rendered the judgment of the
Court of Common Pleas erroneous. The error of the Superior
Court was therefore an error occurring in the exercise of its
jurisdiction, by not giving due effect to the act of Congress
Under which the plaintiff in error claimed; and this error of the
Superior Court, in the construction of this act of Congress, it is
the province of this court to correct.
Though the point does not appear to have been made in
Gordon v. Longest, yet it was upon this ground only that this
court could have rested its decision to look into the proceedings for the removal of that suit from the State court. For it
is as true in this court as in the Superior Court of New York,
that, upon a writ of error, this court looks only at the technical record, And affirms or reverses the judgment, according to
what may appear thereon. Inglee v. Coolidge, 2 Wheat. Z363;
Fisher's Lessor v. Cockerell, 5 Peters, 248; Reed's Lessee v.
Marsh, 13 Peters, 153. But this is only one of the rules of evidence for the exercise of its jurisdiction as a court of error; it
prescribes what shall and what shall not be received as evidence
of what was done in the court below; and -rhen an act of Congress cannot be executed without disregarding this general rule,
it becomes the duty of this court to disrcga:d it. The plaintiff
in error, having a right to have the erroneous judgment reversed,
must also have the right to have the only legal proceedings,
which could be had consistently with the act of Congress, examined to show that error.
It is unnecessary to refer to the proceedings in the Court of
Appeals any further than to say, that the appeal was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction, that court not haxing cognizance of
appeals from the decisions of a single judge at a special term.
It isstated by counsel, that when these proceedings took place

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

211

Kanouse v. Martin.

in the Court of Common Pleas, there was, by law, no distinction between general and special terms of the Court of Common
Pleas, and that, therefore, the plaintiff in error could not, by any
proceeding, have. ntitled himself to go to the Court of Appeals.
We h ve not thought it necessary to inquire into this, because
we are of opinion that the defendant -was not bound to take any
appeal to the general term, if there was such an one then known
to the law. His right to remove the suit being complete, he
could not be required, consistently with the act of Congress, to
follow it further in the Court of Common Pleas; and the power
of that court being terminated, it could not lawfully render a
judgment against him; and it is of that judgment he now
complains. The only legal consequence, therefore, of his not
appealing to the general term is, that the Superior Court is the
highest court of the State to which his complaint of that judgment could be carried, and therefore, under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act, a writ of error lies to reexamine the
judgment of that highest court.
The judgment of the Superior Court must be reversed, and.
the cause remanded, with directions to conform to this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Superior Court of the city of New York, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Superior Court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Superior Court, for further proceedings to be had: therein, in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

