DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Delauriere V. Emison.

'from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
New Jersey, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, .adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

AuGUSTE

F.

DELAURIERE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THo.AS

EmsoN.
The several acts of Congress, passed in relation to claims to land in Missouri, under
Spanish concessions, reserved such lands from sale from time to time. But there
was an intermiLsion of such legislation from the 29th of May, 1829, to the 9th of
July, 1832; and, during this interval, lands so claimed wcre upon the footing of
other public lands, as to sale, entry, and so forth.
By an act of the 6th of March, 1820, (3 Stat. at Large, 545,) Congress gave a certain amount of land to the State of Missouri, to be selected by the legislature
thereof, on or before the 1st of January, 1825 ; and' by another a;.t, passed on the
3d of March, 1831, (4 Stat. at Large, 492,) the legislature were authorized to sell

this land.
Before the 1st of January, 1825, the legislature belected certain lands, which were
then claimed under Spanish concessions, and reserved from sale under the acts of

Congress first mentioned.
In November, 1831, the land so selected was sold by the legislature, in conformity
with the act of Congress of the preceding March.
This sale having been made in the interval between May, 1829, and July, 1832, conveyed a valid title, although the claimant to the sane land was subsequently con-

firmed in his title by Congress, in 1836.

Tis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Missouri, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act. It was an action of ejeetment
brought by the plaintiff in error, Deluriere, against Emison.
Both parties claimed titles under acts of Congress. The case
was carried to the Supreme Court of Missouri, where the decision was against Delauriere, and he sued out a writ of error to
bring the question before this court.
Delauriere claimed under a Spanish concession, granted by
Delassus, and subsequently confirmed by Congress; and Emison, under an act of Congress granting certain land to Missouri,
and sold by that State. The history of the laws relating to
the adjustment of land titles in Missouri is given with great
particularity in the report of the case of Stoddard v. Chambers,
2 How. 285. The following is the history of the two titles in
this case, as exhibited in the court below:
Plaintiff's Title.
The plaintiff claimed title by virtue of a concession from
Carlos Dehault Delassus, Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Louis-

SUPREME COURT.
Delauriere v. Emison.

lana, to Louis Labeaume and Charles Fremon Delauriere, for
10,000 arpens of land, at a place called La Saline Ensanglantee
(The Bloody Saline.) The tract was surveyed by JamesRankin, Deputy Surveyor, and certified by A-ntonio Soulard, Surveyor-General. Fremon Delauriere and his family resided upon
the land, and made salt upon it in 1800, and for several years
afterwards. The claim was filed with the Recorder of Land
Titles, before the 1st July, 1808, and was :eserved from sale by
the acts of 3d March, 1811, And 17th February, 1818. It was
confirmed to the claimants, or their legal representatives, by the
act of the 4th July, 1836. Louis Labeaurne conveyed his interest in the land to Fremon Delauiriere, by a deed dated 15th
July, 1806, and the present plaintiff purchased the entire interest of Fremcn Delauriere at sheriff's sale.
Defendant's Title.
The defindant set up a title derived from the United States,
as follows:
By the 6th section of an act of Congress, approved Mlarch
6, 1820, entitled "An act to authorize the people of Missouri
Territory to form a constitution," &c., it was enacted that certain propositions be, and the same thereby were offered to the convention of 'said Territory of Missouri, when formed, for their
free acceptance or rejection, which, ifaccepted by the convention, should be obligatory upon the United States.
Among said propositions was one, as follows, viz. " That all
salt-springs, not exceeding twelve in number, with six sections
of land adjoining to each, shall be granted to said State, for
the use of said State, the same to be slected by the legislature
of said State, on or before the 1st day of January, in the year
1825; and the same, when so selected, to be used under such
terms- conditions, and regulations as the legislature of said Stateshall direct: Provided, That no salt-spring, the right whereof now
is, or hereafter shall be, confirmed or adjudged to any individual
or individuals, shall by this section be gran:ed to said State.
And provided, also, "That the legislature shall never sell or
lease the same, at any one time, for a longer period than ten
years, without the consent of Congress." Story's Laws, vol. 3,
1762, (U. S. Stat. Large, vol. 3, p. 545.) Tkls, with all the other
propositions, was duly accepted by said convention of Missouri,
by an ordinance adopted July 19, 1820. Laws of Mo., (by. Edwards,) vol. 1, p. 632. Six of said salt-springs, with the sections c, land adjoining, were selected by the Legislature of Mssouri, on or before the 12th day of January, 1822. The seventh,
with the land adjoining, (six sections,) was selected Dedember
14, 1822, by said legislature, as appears by an act approved

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

527

Delauriere v. Emison.

that day. Laws of Missouri of 1822, p. 59; Edwards's edition,
vol. 1, P. 83.
Under this last act, and another approved the day next previous, commissioners were appointed for the purpose of selecting the remaining, with the six sections of land adjoining to
each, to which the 'State was entitled under said act of Congress. Laws of Mo. (by Edwards,) vol. 1, p. 981.
These acts made it the duty of the commissioners to select
five springs and adjoining lands, and make their report to the
legislature at the next session, to commence the third Monday
of November, 1824. They also made it the duty of the commissioners to file with the register of the land office of the
district, where any salt-spring might be selected, a notice of the
same, and of the land adjoining each spring, describing as precisely as practicable the locality of the same. See ยง 4, Act December 13, 1822.
The commissioners were required to meet in the towii of
Franklin on the first Monday in September, 1823, or as soon
thereafter as might be, and from thence proceed to select the
five salt-springs and land adjoining. Laws of Missouri, 1822,
p. 57, Edwards's ed. vol. 1, p. 983.
Said commissioners made the selections and reported to the
next session of the legislature, as required, after which, but during that session, by an act approved January 14, 1825, it was
enacted as folo -: "That the following salt springs, with the
lands adjoining to each, as hereinafter mentioned, are hereby
declared to be selected and accepted for the use of this State;
under the provisions of an act of the Congress of the United
States, entitled "An act to authorize th' people of the Territory
of Missouri to form a constitution," (giving the full title of the
act,) approved the 6th day of March, in the year one thousand*

eight hundred and twenty, that is to say, "1First Section."
Then follows, in regular order, an enumeration and description
of the entire twelve springs and the lands adjoining each, which
had been selected at various times, as before stated.
The land in controversy in this suit, is a part of that selected
through the commissioners appointed under said acts. of 1822.
By an act of the Legislature of Missouri, approved January
15, 1831, entitled "An act to provide for the sale of the saline
lands," it was enacted, so soon as Congress should raise the restriction thereon, and assent to the sale for the benefit of the
State, the twelve salt-springs, together with six sections of land
attached thereto, obtained from the United States for the benefit
of the State, the whole of the said lands should be offered for
sale in a manner particularly described in said act. Laws of
Missouri, (by Edwards,) voL 2, p. 179.

528

SUPREME COURT.
Delauriera v. Emison.

By the 8th section of an act of Congress, approved March 3,
1831, entitled "An act to create the office of surveyor of public
lands for the State of Louisiana," it was enacted that the legislature of said State of Missouri shall be, and is hereby, authorized to sell and convey in fee-simple all or any part of the saltsprings, not exceeding twelve in number, and six sections of
land adjoining to each, granted to said State, by the United
States, for the use, thereof, and selected by the legislature of
said State on or before the 1st day of January, 1825." Story,
493, 494.
Laws, vol. 4, 2259; Stat. at Large, vol. 4, -?.
On the 29th day of Novemberi 1831, the land in controversy
was, in the mode prescribed by said act of the legislature, of
January 15, 1831, sold to James Emison, under whom the defendant holds, and patents therefor, from the State of Missouri,
dated April 26, 1832, were duly executed to said Emison. The
plaintiff asked for the following instructions, which the court
refused to give, and to which refusal the plaintiff excepted:
1st. That if the land in controversy had been, before the 20th
day of December, 1803, conceded by the Spanish government
to Fremon Delauriere and Louis Labeaume, and that said land
had been surveyed before the 10th day of March, 1804, and that
said Delauriere and Labeaume, or their legal representatives,
had filed with the Recorder of Land Titles, prior to 1st of July,
1808, notice of said claims; then said claim was reserved, and
could not be lawfully selected by the State of Missouri, under
provisions of the act of Congress of the 6th March, 1820, provided said claim of Fremon Delauriere and Louis Labeaume
has since been confirmed.
2d. That, by the act of Congress of the 6th of March, 1820,
the legislature of Missouri could not lawfully select any land
which had been, or was thereafter, confirmed or adjudged to any
individual or individuals.
3d. That, unless the legislature of the State of Missouri made
its selection of the land in question, on or before the 1st of January, 182.5, it was illegal, and is not a valid title against a confirmation under the act of the 4th of July, 1836.
4th. That the act of Congress of the d March, 1831, conveys no tite in any lands to the State of Missouri; said act only
authorizes said States to sell, absolutely, lands already granted
by the act of the 6th of March, 1820.
The defendant asked, and the court gave, the following instructions to the jury, to the giving of which the plaintiff excepted. The defendant, by his counsel, first moves the court to
instruct the jury:
1st. That if they believe, from the evidence in this causeythat
the Statc of Missouri selected the land, on or before the 1st day

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

529

Delauriere v. Emison.

of January, 1825, under the 2d clause of the 6th section of an
act of the Congress of the United States, entitled "An act to
authorize the people of the M1issouri Territory to form a constitution, &c., approved the 6th of March, 1820;" and that said
State of Missouri sold and patented the said land in controversy in fee-simple to the said defendant, after the 3d day of
March, 1831, and before the 9th day of July, 1832, they should
find for the defendant.
2d. That, if they shall believe from the evidence, that said
land was selected by the State of Missouri, under said act, on
or before the 1st of January, 1825, and that said State afterwards, and between the 3d of March, 1831, and the 9th of
July, 1832, sold and patented the said land to the defendant,
they ought to find for the defendant, although they may believe
the said land was confirmed to the plaintiff's landlord by the
act of July 4, 1836.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant, which the court
refused to set aside, to which refusal the plaintiff excepted. The
judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State of Missouri, and the case was removed
thence to this court by writ of error.
It was submitted upon a printed brief by iTr. Wells, for the
plaintiff in error, and argued by .ir. Geyer, for the defendant
in error.

11t. Trells, for the plaintiff in error, made the following points:
1. The plaintiff in error says that the Circuit Court erred in
refusing the first instruction asked by him.
That instruction asserts the principle, that if the land had been
by the Spanish government granted to Labeaume and Delauriere prior to the 20th December, 1803, and surveyed prior to
the 10th March, 1804, and a notice of the claim filed with the
recorder of land titles on or before the 1st July, 1808, that it was
reserved from sale and could not have been lawfully selected by
the State under the act of 13th March, 1820.
The first branch of the proposition is true beyond all doubt.
That these circurnstances would bring the claim vthin the provisions of the acts of 1811 and 1818, and entitle it to be reserved from sale, will not be controverted. The question is, if
reserved, could the State lawfully select it under the act of
March 6th, 1820. That claims of this description were protected
by the treaty of 1803, has long since been settled by this court.
See Delassus v. United States, 9 Peters, 130; and also 12 Peters4, 410. And that the acts of 1811 and 1818 were intended
to carry out this provision of the treaty is clear. When the act
VOL. XV.

45

SUPREME

COURT.

Delauriere v. Emison.

of 6th March, 1820, passed, the act of 1818 was in full force,
Could the act of 1820 have operated to repeal the act of 1818?
In the case of the United States v. Gear, 3 Howard, 131, this
court says: "The rule is, that a perpetual statute, (which all
statutes are, unless limited to a particular time,) until repealed
by an act professing to repeal it, or by a clause or section of
another act bearing in terms upon the particular matter of the
first act, notwithstanding an implication to the contrary may be
raised by a general law which embraces the subject-matter, is
considered to be still the law in force, as to the particulars of
the subject-matter legislated upon -a power to sell all lands,
given in a law, subsequent to another law expressly reserving
lea'd-mine lands from sale, cannot be said to be a power to sell
the reserved lands when they are not natmed, or to repeal the
reservation. In the present case there are two laws -the first
a general one, reserving lands of this class from sale -the second a special one, not referring to the former, and not necessarily conflicting with it. Each can be enforced without affecting
the other. In 6 Porter's Alabama Repor.ts, 231, the court remarks: " The law never favors the repeal of a statute by implication, unless the repugnance be quite apparent." In this case
there is no repugnance whatever. The State might have selected its salt-springs 'without interfering with private claims.
The act of 1818 reserved private claims "1until after the final
decision of Congress thereon." This final decision was provided
for by the act of 26th May, 1824, and that act repealed the reesrvation. The land in question, then, being reserved land when
the State appropriated it, the appropriation was unlawful: and,
according to the doctrine of this court in the cases of Stoddart's
Heirs v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 318, and of Bissell v. Penrose, in
8 Howard, the location was not protected by the 2d section of
the act of 4th July, 1836.
The doctrine of those decisions is, distinctly, that to save a
location by virtue of the act 9f July 4, 1836, it must have been
made in conformity to law.
2d. The court erred in refusing to give the plaintiff's second
instruction.
This instruction asserts that it was not lawful for the State
to select any lands which had been or were thereafter coflfirmed
to an individual. These are the terms of the proviso of the very
act which made the grant to the State. .The act of 1820 not
only did not repeal the laws reserving private claims, but it in
express terms protected those reservations from the operations
of the act. If the act of 1820 had declared[ to the State of Missouri, that it should not appropriate Labeaame and Delatiiiere's
claim -that if it did select it, and the clarn should ever there-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

531

Delauriere v. Emison.

after be confirmed, that the State should get no title, the act
could not have been more plain and explicit: "Provided, that
no salt-spring, the right whereof now is or hereafter shall be,
confirmed or adjudged to any individual or individuals, shall,
by this section, be granted to said State." This is a part of the
grant itself- a part and parcel of the very act upon which the
State claim is founded. Does it mean any thing? Does it pro.
tect claims which had been confirmed? It equally in its terms
extends to those which might afterwards be confirmed! The
language is the same as to both. If it has any effect at all,'it
must protect all private claims, whether confirmed before or after
the act of 1820. I cannot enforce this proposition by argument.
'It is a simple question, whether this proviso shall be held valid
or void. The Circuit Court held that the grant was made good
to the State by the 2d section of the act of 4th July, 1836. That
decision is at open war -with the decisions of this court already
cited, in which it is distinctly held, that to bring a location
-within the saving of that section, it must have been Inade in
conformity to law. So far from this location having been made
in conformity to law, it was made in open and direct violation
of an express and positive law. The State selects Fremon's
lick by name.
3d. The court erred in refusing plaintiff's third instruction.
The law of 1820 required that the legislature of the State
should make its selection on or before the 1st January, 1825.
The third instruction asked the court to decide that, unless the
selection was made within this time, it was void as against the
plaintiff's confirmation. This the court refused to do. The
rule for construing powers, whether derived from an -act of the
legislature or from a private instrument, is the same. They
must be strictly construed. No further or greater power must
be exercised than has been given. Any other principle of construction would render all limitations of power nugatory. To
say that a grant of power to the State, to be exercised within a
specified tune, amounts to a grant to be exercised without limit
of time, is repugnant to all ideas of limited powers. The Legis.
lature of Mrissouri had full power to act up. to the 1st January,
1825. After that time the power had ceased; any act done afterwards was wholly unauthorized and void. See 4 Pick. 45-47,
156; 6 T. R. 320; 2 Burr. 219. In the last case the court says.
"The proviso is a limitation of power, and amounts to a negation of all authority beyond its prescribed and clearly delned
limits. It cannot be that the proviso is directory merely, for
that would be to set at naught all the guards brovided by the
legislature against the abuse of authority conferred by the
act."

SUPREME COURT.
Delauriere v. Emison.

If, then, the selection was made after tVae power to make it
had ceased, it was not made in conformity to law, and is therefore not protected by the 2d section of the ac ; of the 4th July, 18:36.
But it is said that the approval of the selection by the Secretary of the Treasury cured all these defects in the State title.
To this it may be answered, 1st, that the act of Congress gave
to the secretary no power whatever over the subject. His action
in the matter was wholly unauthorized by law. 2d. His approval, even if he had the power to approve, came too late. 1
was made on the 22d August, 1837, after the confirmation of'
the plaintiff's title; and it was obviously made to heal the defects in the title of the defendant. Its only effect is to render
those defects the more conspicuous.
4th. The Circuit Court erred in refusing the plaintiff's 4th
instruction.
That instruction simply requested the court to decide that the
act of the 3d March, 1831, conveyed no title to the State.
It will be seen that the act of 1820, masdng the grant to the
State, prohibited the State from selling the land, or leasing it
for a longer period than ten years. The 8th section of the act
of 3d March, 1831, (Land Laws, 491,) removes this restriction,
and authorizes the State to sell, in fee-simple, the lands granted
to the State, "and selected by the legislatue of said State on
or before the 1st day of January, 1825,- another evidence that
Congress did not regard that -provision as nugatory, for the
power to sell, like the original grant, was confined to lands selected within the time prescribed. This is the whole scope of
this act, and- it would be a perversion of its meaning and design to attach to it any other.
5th. The Circuit Court erred in permitting the defendant to
read from the joprnals of the Senate of Missouri a report of
commissioners appointed under an act of the legislature of
18.22, to make a selection of salt-springs for the use of the
State.
It was allowed to be read, for the purpose of showing that the
selection by the State had been made within the prescribed
time., It was illegal evidence, 1st, because the law required
the legislature to make the selection, and that -was a power
which the legislature could not delegate to commissioners. The
rule of law is the same when a power is conferred upon a legislative body, as if conferred on an individual person. The power
conferred cannot be delegated.
2d. The report had no date, and therefore did not tend to
show, even when they, the coimissioners, made the selection.
3d. It was the journal of one branch of the legislature only,
and could furnish no evidence of legislative action. 4th. It

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Delauriere v. Emison.

was not an authentic copy of the original report. The journals
of the senate are only evidence of the action of the senate.
But, 5th, the legislature did, by an act approved February 14,
1825, make the selection of the land in question, and this was
the best and only legal evidence of the action of that body. See
Revised Laws of Missouri of 1825, vol. 2, pages 697 and 700.
6th. The court erred in refusing to grant a new trial. The
new trial should have been granted, because the action of court
in refusing the plaintiff's, and in giving the defendant's instructions, was contradictory. In refusing the plaintiff's 3d instruction, the court decided that it was not material that the selection should have been made on or before the 1st January, 1825.
In giving the defendant's, it assumed that it was necessary.
Again - the court, in giving the defendant's instructions, held
that if the defendant obtained his title from the State, between
the 3d of March, 1831, and the 9th July, 1832, it made his title
good. Upon what principle this instruction was founded it is
icult to perceive. The question here is not whether the defendant hod obtained a good title from the State, but whether
the State had any title to convey. If the State obtained a title
under the act of 1820, it is sufficient to defeat the plaintiff.
But if the selection of the State was void, and the State got
no title thereby, it could never, at any time, convey a good title
to the defendant. What magic there was in the particular
period that elapsed between these two acts, that enabled the
State, when it had no title to convey a good one to the defendant, it would, I think, be difficult to show.
It was decided by this court in Barry v. Gamble, that a patent
issued to a tract of land after the reservation had been removed,
was valid. But this was a patent emanating from the general
government, in whom the title was. In this case the patent
comes from the State, and it is the title of the State that. is
questioned. It is clearly a misapplication of the principle invoked, and in this the court erred,
31r. Geyer, for the defendant in error, contended,
That the selection by the State of Missouri of the land in
controversy, on or before the 16th day of January, 1825, and the
sale and conveyance thereof by the said State, after the 3d day
of March, 1831, and before the 9th day of July, 1832, vested in
the purchaser a title valid against the United States, which has
not been'divested by the subsequent .confirmation of a claim
embracing the same land, by the act of 4th July, 1836, although
the same may have been reserved from sale by the act of 3d
March, 1811.
1st. The 2d clause of section 6, of the act of 601 March. 1820,
45 *

534

SUPREM1E

COURT.

Delauriere v. Emison.

and the ordinance of the Convention of Missouri, of 19th July,
1820, operate as a grant to the State of Missouri of the number of salt-springs and quantity of land therein mentioned, leaving the selection of the springs and land to the State legislature.
No act of the Federal Government was necessary to locate
or designate the granted lands, the selection by the legislature
within the time prescribed, severed the land selected from the
domain, and vested the tle in the State of Missouri.
2d. The act of the 6th Alarch, 1820, does not except from the
grant to, or selection by the State, the lands reserved from sale
by the-act of 1811. By the terms of the grant, lands embraced
by claims, of. which notice had been filed, are subject to appropriation by the State, as well as those embraced by claims of
which no notice had been filed, or to which there was no claim
whatever.
The reservation biv the act of 1811, vEsted no title in any
person; it suspended the authority of the e cecutive officers to
sell, but did not affect the power of Congress over the subject;
the land belonged to the domain, notwithstanding the reservation, and was subject to disposition by law.
3d. The confirmation of the claim embracing the land in con.
troversy, after the selection by the State, and eslecially after
the 3d March, 1831, neither vested a title in the claimant nor
divested that. of the State of 'Missouri or I er vendee.
The first proviso excepts from the grant any salt-spring, the
right whereof was, at the date of the act, or should be before
the grant was completed by the selectic.n, confirmed or adjudged to an individual or individuals. It does not except the
adjoining lands, nor does it contemplate that the selections shall
be, subject indefinitely to defeat by confirmations of claims,
whether there had been a reservation of the land from sale or
not
4th. The act of Congress of 3d March, 1831, (Stat. at Large,
vol. 4, p. 494,) authorizing the State to sell and convey in
fee-simple the salt-springs and lands granted by the act of
1820, and selected on or before the 1st Ja:uary, 1825, is a confirmation of the selection made; and the sale and conveyance
by the State vested the title ift the purchaser, even if the land
was not subject to selection, by reason of the reservation from
sale by the act of 3d March, 1811.
The act authorizing the State to sell was passed, and the
land in controversy sold and conveyed after the 26th of May,
1829, when the reservation ceased, and before it was revived by
'the act of 1832. The title of the defendant is therefore valid
as-.against the confirmation. Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How.
285; Mills v. Stoddard, 8 How. 345.

DECEM1BER TERM,

18b3.

535

Delauriere v. Emison.

5th. The act 4th July, 1836, conferred no title to the land in
controversy as against the purchaser from the State of Missouri,
by virtue of the act of Congress of 3d March, 1831, because
the title of such purchaser was vested prior to the 9th day of
July, 1832, and could not be divested by any subsequent act of
Congress, and because the land in controversy had been located
and appropriated by the State of Missouri, and surveyed and
sold under and in conformity with the laws of the United States.
Any appropriation of land in conformi t with a law of the
United States, is a location under a law of the United States,
and protected against a confirmation by the act of 1836. Les
Bois v. Brammell, 4 Row. 449, 456.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Missouri, under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
The plaintiff 'claims title by a Spanish concession to Lewis
Labeaume and Charles Fremon Delauriere, for ten thousand
arpens of land, at a place called La Saline Ensanglantee. The
tract was surveyed and regularly certified by the SurveyorGeneral. The plaintiff resided upon the land in 1800, and for
several years afterwards.
The claim was filed with the Recorder of Land Titles before
the 1st of July, 1808, and was reserved from sale by the acts of
3d March, 1811, and the 17th February, 1818. It was confirmed to the claimants, or their legal representatives, by the act
of the 4th of July, 1836. Louis Labeaume conveyed his interest in the land, to Fremon Delauriere, by a deed dated 15th
July, 1806; and the present plaintiff purchased the entire tract
of Fremon Delauriere at sheriff's sale.
The defendant claims under an adverse title, derived from
the State of Missouri. By an act of Congress, approved the
6th of March, 1820, entitled "An act to authorize the people of
Missouri Territory to form a State Government, and for its admission into the Union," it was among other things providedthat all salt-springs not exceeding twelve in number, with six
sections of land adjoining to each, shall be granted to the said
State, the same to be selected by the legislature of the State,
on or before the first day of January, 1825; and the same so
selected, to be used under such terms, conditions, and regulations, as the legislature of such State shall direct, &c.
By another act of Congress, approved 3d March, 1831, the
Legislature of the State of Missouri were authorized to sell, in
fee-simple, the lands granted by the above act. Under this act.
the State sold the land in controversy to the defendant.
The questions arise under instructions prayed for by the plaiu.

536

SUPREME COURT.
Delauriere v. Emison.

tiff, and'refused by the court; and also the instruction given on
the prayer of the defendant.
"1. That if the land in controversy had been, before the 20th
day of December, 1803, conceded by the Spanish Government
to Fremon Delauriere and Louis Labeaume, and that said land
had been surveyed before the 10th March, 1804, and that said
Delauriere and Labeaume, or their legal representatives,, had
filed -with the Recorder of Land Titles, prior to the 1st "July,
1808, notice of said claim, then said claim -was reserved, and
could not lawfully be selected by the State of Missouri under
the provisions of the actof Congress of the 6th March, 1820,
provided said claim of Fremon and Labeaume has since been
confirmed.
"2. That by the act of Congress of the 13th MIarch, 1 20, the
Legislature of'Missouri could not lawfully select any-land which
had been, or was thereafter, confirmed or adjudged to any individual or individuals.
"3. That unless the Legislature of the State Qf Missouri
made its selection of the land in questiorn on or before the 1st,
of January, 1825, it was illegal, and is not a valid title against
a confirmation under the act of the 4th July, 1836.
"4. The act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1831, conveys
no title to any lands to the State of i\Iissouri. Said, act only
authorizes the State to sell, absolutely, lands already granted by
the act of the 6th of Maich, 1820."
" The defendant, by his counsel, moves the court to instruct
the jury that if they believe, from the eviderce in this cause, that
the State of Mlissouri selected the land in controversy oi or before the first day of January, 1825, under the second clause of
the 6th section of an act of the Congress of the United States,
entitled 'An act to autliorize the people of the Missouri Territory to form a Constitution,' &c., approved 6th March, 1820,
and that said State of Missouri sold and patented the said land
in controversy, in fee-simple, to the said defendant, after the 3d
day of March, 1831,'and before the 9th day of July, 1832, they
should find for the defendant. That if they shall believe, from
the tvidence, that said land was selected by the State under said
agt on or before The first day of January, 1825, and that said
State afterwards, and between the 3d of March, 1831, and the
9th July, 1832, sold and patented the said land to the defendant,
although they may believe the said land. wras confirmed to the
plaintiffs' landlord by the act of the 4th July, 1836."
And this instruction was given by the court
We think the court did not err in refusing the instructions
prayed by the plaintiff, nor in giving that, which was asked by
the defendant.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

537

Delauriere v. Emison.

Notice of the plaintiff's claim was, on the 30th of June, 1808,
given to the Recorder of Land Titles for the Territory of Louis.
iana, and the grant, survey, and title liapers, were filed with the
recorder and duly recorded.
On the 27th of December, 1811, the claim was taken up for
consideration by the board of c6mmissioners for the adjustment
of land titles, under the act of March 2d, 1805, and rejected.
The claim was again presented to the board of commissioners,
organized in pursuance of the act of Congress of July 9th, 1832;
and afterwards, on the 13th of November, 1833, the board were
unanimously of the opinion, that the claim ought to be confirmed to the said Charles F. Delauriere and L. Labeaume, or their
legal representatives, according to the concession.
This proreeding of the commissioners was reported to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office; and on the 18th of
January, 1834, it was communicated to Congress; and the decision was confirmed by the act of Congress of July 4th, 1836.
By the act of 2d March, 1805, all persons claiming lan& under
the French or Spanish government, were required to file their
claim in the land office - and by the act of 3d March, 1807, the
time was extended to 1st July, 1808. By the act of 15th February, 1811, the President was authorized to have the lands which
had been surveyed in Louisiana, offered for sale- reserving
those tracts for which claims had been filed in the land office,
as above required, till after the decision of Congress thereon.
The same reservation was contained in the act of the 17th
February, 1818.
The act of 26th of May, 1824, authorized claimants, under
French or Spanish grants, concessions, warrants, or orders of
survey," in Missouri, issued before the 10th of March, 1804, to
file their petitions in the district courts of the United States, for
the confirmation of their claims. And every claimant-was declared by the same act to be barred, who did not file his petition
in two years. By the act of the 24th May, 1828, the time for
filing petitions was extended to the 26th of May, 1829. On the
9th of July, 1832, an act was passed, "for the final adjustment
of land titles in Iissoxri, which provided that the Recorder of
Land Titles, with two commissioners, to be appointed, should
examine all the unconfirmed claims to land in Missouri, which
had heretofore been filed in the office of the said recorder, according to law, prior to the 10th of March, 1804.
On the. 29th of November, 1831, the land in controversy
was, in the mode pres&ibed by act of the Legislature of Missouri, or the 15th January, 1831, sold to Emison, under whom
the defendant holds, and a patent was duly issued by the State.
The reservation under the act of 1811, was extended by the

588

SUPREME COURT.
Delauriere v. Emison.

act of the 17th of February, 1818, to the act of 26th of May,
1824; which authorized claimants to file a petition in the district court- and this right was limited to two years; it was afterwards extended to the 26th of May, 1829. The reservation
then expired, or in other words, the bar to the right was interposed. On the 9th of July, 1832, a further provision was made
for the adjustment of such claims. But after the interposition
of the bar, and before the passage of the act of 1832, the land in
controversy was purchased from the Stat3 of Missouri, and a
patent bbtained. During this period there was no protection to
the inchoate right of the original claimants. When the State
of Missouri selected the land it was reserved from sale, but that
impediment was removed, when the limitation expired in 1829.
The confirmation of the claim by Congress, in 1836, had relation back to the origin of the title; but it could not impair
rights which had accrued, when the land was unprotected by a
reservation from sale; and when, in fact, the right of the claimant was barred. This point was settled in the cases of Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 285; and of Mills v. Stoddard, 8
Ib. 345.
As the instructions prayed by the plaintiff in the State court,
were in conflict with the law as above stated, they were properly overruled; and as the instruction given, at the instance
of the defendant, *as substantially in accordance with the above
views, it was correct. The adjustment cf the State court is,
therefore, affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
atfarmed, 'with costs.

