SUPREME COURT.
Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

JOSEPH K. EYRE AND ALGERNON E. AsnBURNER, EXECUTORS
OF ELIZABETH E. POTTER, DECEASED V. SAMUEL R. POTTER
AND \IAUER LONDON.
Where a widow filed a bill in chancery, complaining that immediately upon the death
of her husband, the son of that husband, together with another person, had imposed
upon her by false representations, and induced her to part with all her right in her
husband's estate for an inadequate price, the evidence :n the case did not sustain
the allegation.
It is not alleged to be a case of constructive fraud, arising out of the relative position
of the parties towards each other, but of actual fraud.
The answers deny the fraud and are made more emphatic by the complainants having put interrogatories to be answered by the defendants, and the evidence §ustains
the answers.
It will not do to sot up mere inadequacy of price as a cawse for annulling v contract
made by persons competent and willing to contract, and, besides, there were other
considerations acting upon the widow to induce her to make the contract.
The testimony offered to prove the mental imbecility of the widow, should be received
with great caution, and is not sufficient.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of North Carolina, sitting as a court of
equity.
The bill was filed by Elizabeth E. Potter, during her lifetime,
to which her executors afterwards became parties.
The opinion of the court contains an explanation of the case
as it is set forth in the bill, and it is not necessary to repeat it.
The cause was argued by Air. Badger fo:, the appellants, and
by Mr. Bryan and Mr. Graham for the appellees.
The points of law which were raised by the counsel upon
each side respectively, were so intermingled with their views of
the facts and evidence, that it is impossible to separate them.
The view of the case presented on behalf of the appellants
was as follows: The consideration of the deed, dated lMIay 31, 1847, was evidently and grossly inadequate.
The defendant, Samuel R. Potter, in his answer admits that
he had formed' the opinion, that the estate of his late father was
worth $120,000.
The statements and estimates in the answer of the said defendant, and the schedules therein referred to, show that the real
and personal estate of the said Samuel Potter, at the time of his
death, must have been nearly-that sum. They certainly show
that the estate was so large and valuable -that the price agreed
to be paid to the plaintiff for her interest therein, was shockingly
inadequate.
In relation to the debts of the intestate, no account has been

D

CEMBER TERM, 1853.

43

Eyre et al v. Potter et al.

filed by the administrator, Samuel R. Potter, and no vouchers
exhibited or proved. If the witness Burr were competent to
speak in a general way, when the vouchers and exhibits, if any,
are withheld, then he proves that the whole amount of disbursements by the administrators was about $15,938: he is defendant's witness.
It is insisted, in behalf of the appellants, that her interest in
the estate of her said husband was worth from $1,800 to $1,900
per annum, and from $13,000 to $14,000 absolutely. The result is arrived at from the answer of the defendant, Samuel R.
Potter, and from the evidence in the cause. This valuable interes.t she transfers in the said deed for the sum of $1,000, in
cash, and the personal covenant of the defendant, Samuel R.
Potter, to pay her $600 per annum during her life, she being at
the time nearly seventy years of age, and in infirm health. It
is true, as stated in the answer of the defendant, Mauger London, that the defendant Samuel R. Potter, as administrator of
the said Samuel Potter, afterwards allowed the plaintiff to
obtain a decree or order in the proper court for her year's pro.
vision out of the said estate, and that said provision was of the
value of $1,000, but this has nothing to do with the merits of
said deed. It is also true that the said Samuel R. Potter, in the
instrument executed by him, also covenants with the plaintiff
to furnish her with a competent livelihood and maintenance
at his own house, but nothing of this kind is mentioned in the
said deed, date4l May 31, 1847.
Notwithstarding the facts immediately above mentioned, it
is still insisted, in behalf of the said plaintiff, that the consideratixn received by her, or secured to her for her interest in said
estate, was giossly inadequate. The price of board and lodging in Wilmington, N. C., is from $20 to $25 per month in
hotels and boarding-houses.
Mere inadequacy of consideration is not of itself a sufficient
ground to set aside e contract, unless the inadequacy be such
as amounts to apparent fraud, or unless the situation of the
parties be so unequal as to give one the opportunity of making
his own terms. A court of equity looks upon inadequacy of
consideration as a mark of fraud or imposition ; and where the
inadequacy is so gross as to excite an exclamation, &e., it is of
itself 'proof of imposition. If, for instance, there be such inadequacy of price as that it must be impossible to state it to a
man of common sense without an exclamation at its inequal.
ity, a court of equity considers'that a sufficient proof'-f fraud
to set aside the conveyance. 1 Bro. C. C. 9, &'.
If the inadequacy be such as to show that the person did
not understand the bargain, or was so .oppressed that he was

SUP.REME COURT.
Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

glad to make it, knowing its inadequacy, tat shows a command
over him amounting to fraud. Heatheote v. Paignon, 2 Bro. C.
C. 175; Chesterfield v. Janssen, 2 Vez. 12.5.
The deed cannot be supported by evidence of the natural
love and affection cherished by the plaintiff for her granddaughter Marion, who is the wife of the defendant, Samuel R.
Potter.
The rules for determining upon a deed. of sale, and a deed
of gift are not the same in equity. Upon principle, therefore,
where a deed purports to be a sale, the party interested therein
cannot escape from the appearance of frar.d by setting it up as
a gift, and vice versa. Were this allowed, the court would be
cheated, and its rules would be prevented or rendered unavailing by the arts of those very persons whom its rules were intended to'reach. Though a deed may, in equity, be impeached
by averments negativing the consideration therein expressed,
yet the converse .of the proposition does not hold good, and a
deed cannot be supported by evidence of a consideration different from that expressed irl the deed. 2 Hovenden on Frauds,
103, 43, 14, and cases there cited; vide 6 J. C. R. 232; 2 P.
Wins. Rep. 204; Clarkson v. Hanway, 3 P. Wins. Rep. 129, n.;
Watt v. Green, 2 Sch. & Lef. Rep. 601; 2 Vez. Rep. 402;
Chesterfield v. Janssen, 2 Vez. Rep. 125.
Indeed it may be said that, where a deed purports to be a
valuable consideration, and the contrary is averred and proved,
it is thereby falsified and discredited; and it would be dangerous, if not absurd, to admit proof of averments in its support
as a gift. These consequences would follow, that after the
plaintiff has falsified the deed, and established by evidence that
he was imposed upon when he put his seal to a false pretence
of a sale, the defendant might escape and retain the spoils by
admitting the falsehood of the deed, and thereby withdrawing
himself out of the rules of the court, and insisting upon his
own falsehood as the basis of a right to siapport the deed as a
gift. A deed which expresses a valuable consideration, and no
other, when impeached for inadequacy of price, cannot be supported by any evidence of natural love and affection. Vide 2
Hov. on. Frauds, 14, 43, 102, and the cases, there cited; Newland on Contracts, 359,360, vide 2 Dev. Eq. 376; Jones v. Sasser, 1 D. & B. Rep. 452; 1 D. & B. Eq. 496; Chesson v. Pettijohn1 6 Ired. 121.
It ought to be remembered that the cbnsideration of natural
love and affection is not only not expressed in the deed, but it
has not been proved, nor is any thing secured in the deed to the
separate use of the granddaughter of the plaintiff.
There are many circumstances in this case, either admitted in

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

45

Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

the answers or proved, which tend strongly to show fraud, imposition, and undue influence, practised upon the plaintiff at
the time of the execution of the deed. She was at the time
an old woman. The deposition of her son, Joseph K. Eyre,
taken on the 15th day of November, 1848, shows that she was
then sixty-nine or seventy years of age, and that she was
always of a very weak mind and incompetent to transact business; and that her mind had been for many years, especially
the last four or five years, materially affected by age, disease,
and infirmity. And if any thing in addition were needed to
show the incompetency and the imbecility of the complainant,
it will be found in the allegation in Samuel R. Potter's answer,
that she said she knew all about her husband's estate, and its
value, and the value of her own interest in it, at the very time
when she was parting with that interest for a consideration so
utterly inadequate.
The same facts are in substance proved by the depositions
of Emma L. Allibone, Maria Ashburner, Anna Worrell, J. L.
Kay, E. C. Crowley, Josephine K. McCammon, Hannah B.
Drummond. The same witnesses prove that the plaintiff had,
at the date of the said conveyance, five children, one of them
insane, and two of them in indigent circumstances.
They also prove that she was a tender and affectionate
mother, and by no means so destitute of sensibility, as the defendants and some of their witnesses have insinuated.
The said deed bears date two days after the death of the
husband of the plaintiff, before she could have an opportunity
to reflect deliberately upon the very important step which she
was about to take, before she could consult with her friends,
and when her feelings must have been too much disturbed and
agitated to enable her to act with carc and caution in the disposition of her property.
Her mind could hardly have been calm and composed immediately after the burial of her husband, whether she lived happily with him or not. She resided in the house of the defendant, Samuel R. Potter, and was without money enough in herpocket to pay for a piece of mourning. At such a time, and
under such circumstances, the plaintiff might easily have been
imposed upon by her step-son and the other defendant, and it
seems she had no aid from any other person prior to the date
of the conveyance. On Sunday morning no one was present but the defendant Potter and his wife, and when the agreement was entered into, nobody was present but the plaintiff and
the defendant Potter.
At the time when the deed was signed, no one was present
but the plaintiff, the two defendants, and Mrs. Potter.

46

SUPREME

COURT.

Eyre et al. v. Potter etal.

The depositions of Everett, Baker, London, and others, show
that the plaintiff was not the object of affection to the family
of her deceased husband.
There was unusual haste in making the contract and in the
execution of the deed. The husband* of the plaintiff died on
Saturday, was buried on Sunday, and the contract was completed and the instrument signed ol Monday morning.
The said deed makes a disposition of all the property of the

plaintiff.
The conveyance was in a very high degree unwise and imprudent, as regards the plaintiff, and unjust and unnatural
towards her children, two, of whom were poor, and one of them
insane.
A disposition of property so revolting to common sense and
natural affection ought to be looked upon with suspicion. If
the plaintiff married her late husband under the influence of
the mercenary motives which have been attributed to her, the
execution of the said deed would be no less extraordinary and
unaccountable. If property was so dear to her, why should
she dispose of it upon such ruinous terms, if she in fact understood what she was about? The parties did not deal with each
other upon equal terms. The defendant Potter was much more
competent than the plaintiff to transact business, and was much
better -acquainted with the estate. He admits in his answer
that he had had the management of a pc.rtion of his father's
property, to wit, the rice plantation, known as Point Peter, and
Love Grove, and the hands belonging to the same.
The defendant, Potter, misrepresented the value of the estate
to the plaintiff, before she signed the deed. The defendant,
Potter, says in his answer that, on Monday morning, 31st of
May, 1847, the plaintiff said that she had concluded to sell her
interest in her husband's estate to him for the benefit of her
granddaughter. How then does it happen that the property was
not conveyed for the benefit of the granddaughter of the plaintiff? By what influence did she sign a deed contrary to her
own conclusion and in violation of the agreement? Where,
and when, and with whom, and for what price, did she consent
to change her purpose?
This pretended consideration of love and affection for her
grA.ddaughter, at the expense of her more needy and equally
beloved children, was probably introduced to save the agreement from the imputation of shocking inadequacy, but like all
similar pretexts, it puts upon the deed a brand of fraud and a
mark of surprise or imposition. Neither by general nor special
words does this leading motive find a place :in her deed, and yet
she signed it, according to the statement of the defendant Pot-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

47

Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

ter, gladly and eagerly. The name of Mrs. Marion Potter is
not even mentioned in the deed.
Again. The defendant, Potter, says the bargain was that he
would pay her one thousand dollars in cash. How happens it
that the writing only gave her his note without interest, and left
her obliged to borrow money from her granddaughter to buy
clothes ?
Again. Said defendant says that the bargain was that he
would "1give her board," as a part of the price. How does it
happen that the covenants for her board and the other writings,
do not recite this as a part of the price, but, on the contrary,
recite that she is to be boarded at the house of said defendant,
simply because she "deserved it," thereby making it a voluntary
covenant? And wherefore did plaintiff consent to turn her
privilege of boarding with Marion into a condition that she was
to board with Mr. Potter, no matter whither he might go?
Again. Said defendant says that the agreement was, that he
was to "find her a servant." Wl4hy is this omitted in the writings?
Again. The said defendant says that it was a part of his
original agreement with the plaintiff, that she was to have her
year's allowance. And yet she conveys away her entire interest
in the estate.
The statements of the two defendants concerning the circumstances attending the transaction, do not in all respects agree
with each other, and their statements are in many respects
extraordinary and suspicious.
The deed, dated June 21,1847, is no confirmation of the deed
previously executed by the plaintiff. It is not relied upon as a
confirmation. But if it were relied upon as such, there is a
ready answer. On the 21st of June, 1847, the defendant,
Samuel R. Potter, was administrator of his father, Samuel Potter, and supposing his deed of the 31st of May, 1847, to be
void, he was a trustee of the property in his hands, and by the
established rules of a court of equity, this agreement could not
stand for a moment, at least so far as the personal estate is
concerned.
In order to make an express confirmation available, it must
appear that the party was then aware of his rights, and knew
that the first transaction was impeachable. Lord Chesterfield
v. Janssen, before cited; Boyd v. Hawkins, 2 Dev. Eq. Reps.
215.
If it be competent to look beyond the deed itself for a consideration to support it, and if there be sufficient proof to show
that natural love and affection for the wife of the defendant
Potter, constituted any part of the consideration, then the deed,

SUPREME

COURT.

Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

dated 31st of May, 1847, ought to be considered as a gift so far
as it conveys any thing over and above the value of the price
paid or secured, and it ought to be governed by those rules
which relate to voluntary conveyances.
Competency of Evidence.
It is insisted by the plaintiff that the deposition of Mauger
London, one of the defendants, is not competent, because his
answers were written by him, before he came before the commissioners.
Plaintiff insists that the correspondence loetween herself and
her children, after the execution of the deed, dated May 31,
1847, is competent.
The defendant, Potter, in his answer says, that she received
letters reproaching her before the 21st of June, 1847. The letters are thereby made evidence to disprove it. Defendant Pot.
ter said she loved none of her children; said letters are evidence
to show the contrary. Said letters are evidence to discredit
London, witness for the defendant,. Potter.
The counsel for the appellees made
the two following points,
its merits:
before examining the case upon
1st. The rights of these very parties have been adjudicated
upon in a State court. Potter v. Everett, 7 Iredell, Eq. Ca.
152.
2d. All the children, and the grandchild of Samuel Potter,
the deceased, intestate, who are his heirs at law, and next of
kin, ought to be parties to this suit. Story's Eq. P. sect. 72 to
76, inclusive; Poor v. Clark, 2 Atk. 515; Mitford, Eq. P1. by
Jeremy, 164.
As to the merits-: These depend upon the pure pinciples of
English equity. There is tothing in the jurisdiction of this
court, or the laws of the State from which it comes, to give to
it any peculiarity. And its solution involws, mainly, the question, what guardianship, either for relief or restraiht against
their own action, do courts of equity assume over persons of
either sex, who are of mature age, of sound mind, and, in the
case of women, not under coverture.
The execution of the deed, which it is sought by this bill to
set aside, being admitted, it must stand here, as in a court of
law, unless there were circumstances attending its execution
which establish fraud and surprise in its procurement. The
circumstances relied on are stated in the bill, from the lower
part of page 2 to 5 of the record; and, as summed up in the
brief of the plaintiff's counsel, are, that on the 31st of May,
1847, when the deed was executed, she was sick, nervous, and

DECEMBER TERMI, 1853.
Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

afflicted; without counsel; ignorant of her rights, and of the
value of the estate of her husband; not competent to transact
business; that the defendants availed themselves of the advantage afforded by this, her condition, and surprised and defrauded
her into the execution of the deed, disposing of her whole
worldly estate for a greatly inadequate consideration; and that
the value of her interest in her husband's estate was misrepresented and underestimated by the defendants, Samuel R. Potter
and London, who was his attorney.
The answers of both defendants are directly responsive to
the bill, and both deny every material allegation in support of
these charges, and explain every fact relied on to give them
color. They deny that she was sick, nervous, or afflicted, to
their knowledge, during the illness,, or at the time of the death,
of her husband, or at the time of the execution of the deed.
On the 'contrary, they state circumstances, showing ordinarily
good health, and extraordinary indifference and composure.
They deny that she was ignorant of her rights, and of the value
of the estate of her husband, and that she was not competent
to transact business. They both state that she informed them,
in cwuversation, that she had managed two estates of deceased
persons in Philadelphia, before her marriage to Samuel Potter;
that the defendant, London, expressly informed her of her legal
rights, as the widow of her husband, before her execution of the
deed; that she declared she knew what the estate was worth;
verified this declaration by enumerating most of' the articles of
property of which it consisted, and said the whole was worth
$130,000, and that her dower was worth $1,000 a year, (all of
which, defendants allege is an overestimate,) but that a primary
motive with her for making the conveyance, was to benefit her
granddaughter, the wife of the defendant, Potter, and himself.
As to being without counsel, they respond, that she was
cautioned by the -defendant, London, as to the importance
of the business, and advised to call in D. B. Baker, Esq., an
eminent lawyer, and P; K. Dickinson, Esq., an eminent man of
business, both of whom were near to her house, the former, the
son-in-law, and the latter, a partner of her late husband; but
that she declined, preferring to act on her own judgment, and
desiring to keep the affair secret.
They deny, secondly, that either of them misrepresented or underestimated the value of her interest in the estate of her husband, or advised or influenced her to make the conveyance in
question; but, on the contrary, they aver, that the whole arrangement originated with, and was proposed by her first, while
the funeral ceremonies of her husband were in progress, and was
persevered in and carried out with perfect composure and deliVOL. XV.

5

50

SUPREM1E

COURT.

D-yre et al. v. Potter et al.

beration. They deny that London was the attorney of S. R.
Potter in general, or of the intestate Samuel Potter. The former
states that he was averse to employing London as his counsel,
in conducting the administration of his father's estate, and only
consented to retain him upon the advice of his brother-in-law,
the aforesaid D. B. Baker, himself a lawyer. They state that
she, on returning from her husband's burial, requested London
to call and see her the next morning on particular business;
thit he did so call; that she then mentioned the sale she proposed to make of her interest in her husband's "estate to Samuel
R. Potter, and gave him instructions to prepare the conveyances;
that whatever circumstances of secrecy attended his visits to her
house, were occasioned by her special request. They admit
that the pecuniary consideration recited in the deed was not
equal to the interest thereby conveyed, but allege that the plaintiff was so told by both of them, and was well aware of that
fact, as she then declared, from her own kncwledge of the estate.
They state that the plaintiff, at the time of its execution, was
well satisfied with her deed, and so continued until, a few weeks
thereafter, she received a letter from her rela;ives in Philadelphia,
complaining that she had made no provision for her lunatic
daughter, Mrs. Babcock. This becoming known to the defendant, Potter, he told the plaintiff if she was dissatisfied with
what she had done, he would surrender the deed to her. She
declined this; but it was then agreed that the defendant, Potter,
should pay to the said Mrs. Babcock an annuity of $150 per
year, to commence immediately on the death of the plaintiff,
and that the plaintiff should therefore confirm the conveyance to
him; that she then sent again for the defer.dant, London, gave
him instructions for written instruments to carry this agreement
into effect, and that the annuity bond being signed by the defendant, Potter, she then, to wit,.on the 21st of June, 1847, by
her solemn deed, reaffirmed the conveyance of the 31st of May
preceding. They deny that this last arrangement was made by
either of the defendants with a view to avoid odium, which had
been incurred by them on account of the original conveyance;
but the defeudant, Potter, alleges, that he entered into it because
the plaintiff had been liberal to him, was and expected to continue an inmate of his family, and to enab.e her to silence the
reproachful clamors of her friends in Philadelphia; that, upon
its being completed, she professed herself fully satisfied, and
said her Philadelphia friends could -no longer complain.
Thus the parties are at issue, and the decree to be rendered
depends wholly upon the finding of the facts as alleged by the
one party or the other. The judges in the court below found
in favor of the defendants. This being a ccurt of errors in law,

DECEMBER TERM 1853.
Eyre et al. v. Potter et aL

will not reverse the decision there made upon a mere difference
of opinion as to the conclusion to be drawn from the evidence
upon the facts.
But supposing the questions of fact to be retried here, what
evidence is there to sustain any material allegation in the bill,
or to contradict any material averment in the answers ?
That of.the plaintiff consists mainly of the depositions of certain persons in Philadelphia, (for the most part her children and
connections,) who depose that she had children by her first marriage, and manifested for them, in her intercourse, the usual family affection; that she was a delicate person, not of strong
mind, and had some relatives who were lunatics; and that she
could not transact business; that the defendant, Potter's wife,
is the daughter of a man of wealth, and has an estate independently of her father, and that the plaintiff had no estate, except
I
her interest in the fortune of her husband.
In addition to these, she has taken the depositions of certain
persons in Wilmington, which are found in the record, to show
of what her husband's estate consisted, what was its value, the
relations of friendship between S. R. Potter and London, and
the state of London's credit in,1847, &c.
There is no witness who supports the allegations of her bill,
which constitute her claim to be relieved, against her solemn
deed, by the rules of justice administered in courts of equity.
Namely; .that at, the time of its execution she was sick, run
down with fatigue and watching, distressed, ignorant of her
rights concerning her husband's estate, and of the value thereof,
in need-of counsel, which she would have had but for the fraudulent acts of the defendants; that the defendants,,or either
of them, misrepresented or underestimated the amount of the
estate, almost all the articles of which are enumerated in her
deed; or that they, or either of them, advised or urged her to
make the conveyance to the defendant, Potter; or that thd defendants conspired or colluded to defraud her. The bill should
therefore be dismissed, for want of proof to sustain its material
charges, which ate contradicted by the answers of the defendants.
The answers being directly responsive to the allegations and in-'
ten'ogatories of the bill in evidence for them, which must prevail,
unless overborne by the testimony of tWo witnesses, or its equivalent. Story's Eq. 528; Lewis v. Owen, 1 Ired. Eq. Cas. 290;'
Axnsworthy v. Cheshire, 2 Dev. Eq. 4-56. But the defendants
have, moreover, disproved the plaintiff's charges by positive testimony. Their depositions show that the plaintiff was not sick,
distressed, fatigued, or in anywise disconcerted by the sickness
or death of her husband; that the defendant, Samuel R. Potter,
was much grieved; that she was well acquainted with her hus-

SUPREME COURT.
Eyre et aL v. Potter et 2I.

band's estate, and estimated it at its full value. That she told a
witness, on her return from her husband's burial, on Sunday, that
she had determined on the disposition of her property as conveyed
by this deed. That she had -been reading the Revised Statutes the
same day while the company was at the burial. That she made
a similar declaration to another witness, on -,he next morning, before London came to her house. That she afterwards expressed
satisfaction With this arrangement, and gave good reasons for
it: Namely, 1st, that she was much attached to Mrs. S. R. Potter, and intended to live with her; 2d, that she had made over
her property to her children, at the time of marrying Mr. Potter,
and thought it but right that his children should have his; 3d,
that most of his property consisted in slaves, and she would not
own one for any consideration. 4th, that the management of
the property would be troublesome to her, and that the amount
to be paid her by Potter was as much as slewanted. 5th, that
Samuel R. Potter might be enabled to buy the Point Peter plantation, and thus have an ample provision for his wife. The deposition of D. B. Baker, taken by plaintiff, shows that she was
a person of bad disposition and temper, sElf-willed, and dictatorial. They prove, also, that she was con-tent with the disposition of her property until she received a letter from her son,
Joseph Eyre, in Philadelphia. That upon the new arrangement
being made, by which an annuity was secured to her daughter,
Mrs. Babcock, she was entirely satisfied, and deliberately ratified her conveyance, with a full knowledge of every thing pertaining to the subject. This was on the 21st of June. In August ensuing, her son, Joseph Eyre, came to Wilmington, and
she left with him for Philadelphia.
Aware of the effect of these proofs, the learned counsel for
the plaintiff devotes the main stress of his argument to the inadequacy of the consideration of the deed, as a ground of relief.
It will be insisted that the inadequacy, though considerable, is
not gross, and that, regard being had to the nature of the property, and the-relative capacities of the plaiatiff and Samuel R.
Potter to render it profitable, the arrangemnent as a sale was not
so disadvantageous to her as it has been represented. With
this object, reference will be made to the inventory of the administrator. But suppose the inadequacy, as a question of
pecuniary value, to be gross, it alone aff.)rds no ground for
relief, and requires some other accompaniment to taint the deed
with fraud. 2 Coxe, 320; Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Ves: 246;
Underhill v. Howard, 10 Ves. 219; L)rd T hurlow, in Fox v.
Macreth, 16 Ves. 512, 517; Story's Eq. 245; Burrowes v. Lock,
10 Ves. 471; Greene v. Thompson, 2 Ired. Eq. 365; Moore v.
Reid, lb. 580; Osgood v. Franklin, 2 Johns. C. R. 23. There is

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

53

Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

no such accompaniment here. On the contrary, it is clearly
shown that the pecuniary consideration was accompanied by
that of affection. It is said that this circumstance cannot be
taken into the account, because it only appears by parol evidence, and thus to prove it violates the rule that parol evidence
cannot be received "to vary, add to, or contradict" a deed. The
fallacy of this argument consists in applying a salutary rule-in
the construction of deeds, and the determination of rights under
them, to inquire into the fraud or fairness of their execution; in
fact, to the inquiry whether the alleged deed is a deed. If this
circumstance attending the execution cannot be proved by evidence dehors the deed, what other can ? How does the consideration appear to be inadequate, but by parol evidence? Is it
to be allowed to impeach but not to sustain ? In investigations
of this kind nothing is excluded which shows the acts or motives
of either party. That it is admissible for this purpose is considered as settled.- Springs v. Hawks, 5 Ired. 33; 6 Ired. Eq. 38;
1 Phillips on Ev. 482, n. and cases cited; 3 Stark. Ev. 1004, et
see.; 1 Greenleaf, 408; 2 Story's Eq. 1531; Sugden on Vendors, 87; Potter v. Everitt, 7 Ired. 152; Hinde v. Longworthy, 11
Wheat. 199; Runyon v. Leary, 4 Dev. & B. 233. Even conveyances, voluntary on their face, may be shown by parol to
have been for valuable consideration, and thus defeat the claims
of creditors. Sugden, 438; Chapman v. Emery, Cowp. 278.
And the cases are numerous where conveyances, absolute intheir
terms, have been allowed, by parol, to be shown to be mere securities for money. Streder v. Jones, 3 Hawks, 423; 2 Dev.
558; 1 Ired. Eq. 369; 6 Ired. Eq. 38. The cases cited by the
plaintiff's counsel on this point do not sustain his position.
There is a well-established distinction between the cases in
which a specific performance will be refused in equity, where a
cortract is executory, and those in which it will be rescinded
being executed. The circumstances of this case may class it
with the former, but not the latter.
But, whatever may be thought in regard to the original transaction, there has been such complete recognition and confirmation on the part of the plaintiff that she cannot impeach her
deed. Moore v. Reid, 2 Ired. Eq. 580; Chesterfield v. Janssen, 2
Ves. 125; Cole v. Gibbons, 3 P. W. 289.
As to Competency of Evidence.
Loudon's deposition was properly allowed as evidence. After
the certificate of the commissioners, dated April 14, 1849, of the
execution of their commission, they were functi officio, and no
other certificate of theirs can be heard. If they are to be fur59

54

SUPREME COURT.
Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

ther h3ard, it must be upon oath as witnesses. But if their certificate of the412th November, 1844, is to be respected, the fact
it sets forth is neutralized by their third ccrtificate, on the same
page that the irregularity of writing out the answers of witness,
while out of their presence, was occasioned by themselves.
No observation is deemed necessary on the complaint, that
the plaintiff was not permitted to introduce as evidence the correspondence between herself and her children.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of North Carolina, by which
decree the bill of, the appellant (the complainant in the Circuit
Court) was dismissed with costs.
The allegations in the bill, on which the interposition of the
court was invoked, are substantially as fllow: That Samuel
Potter, deceased, the late husband of the complainant, died on
the 29th of May, 1847, possessed of a large real and personal
estate, consisting of houses in the towns of Wilmington and
Smith vile, in North Carolina, of a productive rice plantation, of
atn interest in one or more valuable saw-mills, of a large number
of slaves, of a considerable amount of bank and railroad stocks,
and of other personal property; that the complainant who, at
the time of her husband's death, was ignorant of the value of
his property, had, from recent informatioi, ascertained that the
annual value of the real estate was more than $6,000, perhaps
equal to twice that sum, and that her share in her husband's
personal property was worth not less than $15,000; that by
the laws of North Carolina the complainant, in addition to one
year's maintenance for herself and famLy, (in this instance
amounting to not less than $1,000,.) was entitled, in right of
her dower, to one third of her husband's real estate during
her life, and to an absolute property in a child's part, or ine
sixth of the persofalty, her husband having left surviving
him four children, and one grandchild; that by the laws of the
same state, she had the prior right of adrainistratioii upon the
estate of her husband, and thereby the control of his assets,
and a right to all the regular emoluments resulting from that
administration; that the complainant is an aged and infirm
Woman, predisposed to nervous affections, and wholly inexperienced in the transaction of business; that during the last illness of her husband, being overwhelmed by daily and nightly
watchings and anxiety, she became ill; -.hat, whilst she was
thus sick and oppressed with affliction and infirmity, Samuel R.
Potter, the son of her late husband, professing great sympathy
and affection for the complainant, availing himself of her dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

tressed and lonely condition, and of her ignorance of the value
of the estate, with which he was familiar, having been several
years the manager of it, combined with a lawyer by the name
of Mauger London to defraud the complainant, and to deprive
her of her rights and interest in the estate, and succeeded in accomplishing this scheme in the following manner: In the prosecution of their plan they iii the first place induced the complainant under an assurance that the measure would be in accordance with the wishes of her late husband, and would prove the
best means of protecting and securing her interests, to relinquish
to the said Samuel R. Potter, her right to administer upon her
husband's estate. In the next place by false representations as
to the value of the estate, and the expense and trouble of managing it, they prevailed upon her to sell and convey to the said
Samuel R. Potter, by a deed bearing date on the 31st of May,
1847, her entire interest in this wealthy aid productive estate,
for the paltry consideration of $1,000, and a covenant for an
annuity of $600 during the complainant's life; and that even
this snall allowance was not otherwise secured to the complainant than by the single bond of said Samuel R. Potter, for the
sum of $2,000. That in the eagerness to effect their iniquitous
purposes, the said Potter and London, in total disregard of her
feelings and even of decency, did, on the day of her husband's
death and before his interment, urge her acquiescence in their
scheme, and on that day or the day succeeding, accomplished it,
by extracting from the complainant a deed bearing date on the
31st of May, 1847, conveying to Samuel R. Potter the complainants entire interest in her late husband's estate, and the instrument of the same date, whereby she relinquished to the same
individual her right to administer upon that estate. The bill
makes defendants the said Samuel R. Potter and Mauger London; charges upon them a direct fraud by deliberate combination, by misrepresentation, both in the suppression of the truth
and the suggestion of falsehood, and in the effort to profit by
the ignorance, the sickness, the distress and destitution of the
complainant. The bill calls for a full disclosure of all the facts
and circumstances attending the transactions therein alleged to
have occurred; prays that the deed of May 31st, 1847, from the
complainant to said Samuel R. Potter may be cancelled; that
the property thereby conveyed may be released and reconveyed
to the complainant, and concludes with a prayer for general
relief.
It is now the office of this court to determine how far the
foregoing allegations are sustained upon a proper construction
of the pleadings, or upon the evidence adduced by either of the
parties

56

SUPREME COURT.
Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

And here it may be proper to premise, that in the examination of the case made by the bill, it cannot be considered as one
of constructive fraud, arising out of some peculiar relation sustained to each other by the complainant and the defendants,
and therefore to be dealt with by the law under the necessity
for protecting such relation, but it is one of actual, positive
fraud, charged, and to be judged of, according to its features
and character, as delineated by the complainant, and, according
to the proofs adduced to establish that character. Although
cases of constructive fraud are equally cognizable, by a court of
equity, with cases of direct or positive fraud, yet the two classes
of cases would be met by a defendant in a very different manner.
It seems to be an, established doctrine of a court of equity, that
when the bill sets up a case of actual fraud, and makes that the
ground of the prayer for relief, the plaintiff will not be entitled
to a decree, by establishing some of the facts quite independent
of fraud, but which might of themselves create a case under a
totally distinct head of equity from that which would be applicable to the case of fraud originally stated. In support of this
position may be cited, as directly in point, the case of Price v.
Berrington, decided by Lord Chancellor Truro, in 1851. Vide
English Law and Equity Reports, vol. 7, p. 254.
The defendants, in this case, were clothed with no .special
function, no trust which they were bound -:o guard or to fulfil
for the benefit of the complainant; they were not even the depositaries of any peculiar facts or information as to the subject
matter of their transactions, or which were not accessible to all
the world, and by an omission or failure in the disclosure of
which, they could be regarded as perpetrating a fraud.
Recurring to the pleadings in this case, there is not alleged
in the bill one fact deemed material to the decision of this controversy, which is not directly met, and emphatically denied, by
both the defendants.
Although the age assumed for the complainant seems to be
controverted by none of the parties, yet the assertions that, at
the period of her hiusband's death, she labored under any unusual
infirmity; that she was exhausted by fatigue and by anxious
watchings at the bed of sickness, or was overwhelmed with
grief, or even discomposed by the event which severed forever
her connection with her husband, are assertions directly met, and
positively contradicted; and in further contravention of these
statements by the complainant, are the averments that the
intercourse of the complainant with her late husband, was of a
very unhappy character, evincing not indifference merely, but
signs of strong antipathy. Equally di t and positive are the
denials in the answers of both the defendants, of the charges of

DECEMBER

TER1, 1853.

57

Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.
persuasion or inducement of any kind, or of any concealment
or misrepresentation moving from the defendants, by which
the complainant was or could have been influenced; and it is
expressly denied by each of the defendants, that any proposition
was by them, or either of them, submitted to the complainant for
the sale of her interest in the estate, or for the relinquishment of
her right to the administration. These positive denials in the
answers, being directly responsive to the charging part of the
bill, the latter, by every rule of equity pleading, must be displaced by them, unless those denials can be overcome by evidence aliunde. But by the peculiar frame and structure of the
bill, in this case, the complainant has imparted to the answers,
a function beyond a mere response to the recitals or charges
contained in the bill. The complainant has thought proper specifically to interrogate the defendants, as to the origin, progress,
and conditions of the transactions impugned by her; and as to
the part borne in them, both by the defendants and the complainant herself. By the answers to these interrogatories, thi complainant must, therefore, be concluded, unless they can be overthrown by proofs. How stands the case, in this aspect of it,
upon the interrogatories and the evidence? The defendants,
being called on to disclose minutely, and particularly, their
knowledge of, and their own participation and that of the complainant in, the transactions complained of, declare, that when
those transactions took place, the complainant was in her usual
health; was in possession of all her faculties, was exempt from
any of those influences, such as grief and depression, which
might have rendered her liable to imposition; was in possession,
likewise, of all the knowledge as to the subject-matter of the
transactions requisite to judge of her own interests; that with
such capabilities, and such knowledge, the complainant herself
proposed the arrangement which was adopted, and although
informed by both the defendants, that the consideration she
proffered to receive vas less than the value of her interests in
the estate, she urged and insisted upon that arrangement, assigning for it, reasons, which are deemed neither unnatural nor
improbable, and which, although they might, to some persons,
appear not to be judicious, she had the right, nevertheless,
legally, and morally, to yield to.
How does the history, thus given by the defendants, accord
with the proofs in this cause?
And first as to the state of complainant's health, and the
condition of her mind and spirits as affected by the illness and
death of her husband.
Benjamin Ruggles, who says that he is acquainted with the
parties, states that he was with ihe husband of the complainant

58

SUPREME COURT.
Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

every day during his illness, (which lasted eight or ten days,)
and sat up with him two nights; that he saw the complainant
every day; that she did not sit up either night that the witness
was there; that she exhibited no sign of distress at the sickness
of her husband, nor devoted much of her time to him, nor
showed any sign of grief at his death; that on the night of her
husband's death, the complainant attended to getting his burialclothes, which she handed to the witness, seeming calm and
composed. The complainant was not sick during the witneses
stay.
Josephine Bishop, .lso acquainted with the parties, was at the
house of the deceased on the day of his death, returned there on
the second day.after that event, and remained. three or four weeks.
On the morning of the witness's return, the complainant, in a
conversation, informed her that complainant intended to propose
to the defendant, Samuel E. Potter, to make over to his wife all
the complainant's interest in her husband',s estate. Some two
or three weeks after, the complainant said to the witness that
she had sent for Mr. London to arrange her business for her,
and felt greatly relieved and satisfied at the manner in which
he had arranged it; that she had conveyed her interest in her
husband's estate to Samuel R. Potter, who was to give her two
thousand dollars in cash, six hundred dollars a year during her
life, to furnish her board and a servant, and would have given
her more if she had asked it, but she was satisfied with the
amount, which was as much as she would have use for. The
complainant spoke of the defendant, London, in the strongest
terms-of approbation. She farther remarked to the witness, that
she knew her interest in the estate of her late husband was
worth much more than she had asked for it. Yet at the time
of her marriage with him, she had made over her own property
to her children by a former marriage, and thought it nothing
but right that his children should have the benefit of his property, besides that the greater part of the property consisted of
slaves, and she would not own one for any consideration. Witness saw the complainant every day during the time she was at
the house; she did not complain of ill health nor appear to be
at all distressed; and.witness had never seen her in better spirits.
The conyersations in which these declarations of complainant
were made, were introduced by the complainant herself.
Margaret H. Wade, who is acquainted with the parties, states
that she was three or four times at the house of defendant during his illnessi and remained three or four hours during each
time. Witness saw the complainant once only in the room of
her husband; she staid in an adjoining room. Witness did not
perceive that the complainant was indisposed in any way, nor

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

59

fEyre et al. v. Potter et al.

did the complainant appear to be grieved during the illness of
her husband nor after his death. In a conversation with witness some three or four days before decedent's death, the complainant asked the witness if she thought the decedent could
live, and upon the reply of the witness that she did not think he
could, the complainant observed that she was provoked at Samuel (the defendant) for forcing him to take first one thing and
then another, "and make him live any how." Afterwards, on
board of the steamboat returning from Smithville from the funeral of the decedent, the complainant told the witness, that
she had made over her property to Samuel R. Potter, or intended so doing, on account of his wife Marian; that she was very
fond of her, and wished to stay with her the residue of her life,.
though she did not know that her friends at the north would be
willing that she should do so.
Without a farther and more protracted detail of the testimony
adduced on the part of the defendants, it may be sufficient
merely to advert to the depositions of Julia and Caroline Everett,
of Edwin A. Keith, and of Sterling B. Everett, (the last for many
years the physician in the family of the decedent,) and of the
complainant herself, as fully sustaining the averments in the answers of the defendants, and the statements of the witnesses
previously named, in relation to the capacity of the complainant,
to her disposition and deportment towards her late husband, the
effect of his illness and death upon her health and spirits, her
knowledge of her rights and interest in the subject of her transactions with the defendants, the origin and fairness of those
transactions, the objects for which, and the means and instrumentality by which, they were consummated. Nor can it escape
observation, as a circumstance of great if not of decisive weight,
that all this testimony is derived from persons familiar with the
parties, living upon the immediate theatre of the transactions
in controversy, many of them more or less acquainted with the
subjects embraeed by them, witnesses, all of them free from imputation on the score of interest, and against whose veracity or
intelligence no exception is even hinted.
Against an array of evidence like this, the question of equivalents or of exact adequacy of consideration cannot well be
raised. The parties, if competent to contract and willing to
contract, were the only proper judges of the motive or consideration operating upon them; and it would be productive of the
worst consequences if, under pretexts however specious, interests or dispositions subsequently arising could be made to bear
upon acts deliberately performed, and which had become the
foundation of important rights in others. Iere inadequacy of
price, or any other inequality in a bargain, we are told, is not to

SUPREME

COURT.

Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

be understood as constituting per se a gr'ound to avoid a bargain in equity, for courts of equity, as well as courts of law,
act upon the ground that every person who is not, from his peculiar condition or circumstances, under disability, is entitled to
dispose of his property in such manner and upon such terms
as he chooses; and whether his bargains are -wise and discreet
or otherwise, or profitable or unprofitable, are considerations
not for courts of justice, but for the party himself to deliberate
upon. Vide Story's Equity, § 244, citing he cases of Griffiths
v. Spratley, 1 Cox) 383, Copis v. Middleton, 2 Maddox, 409,
and various other cases.
Again, it is ruled, that inadequacy of consideration is not of
itself a distinct principle of equity. The common law knows
no such principle. The consideration, be it more or less, supports the contract. Common sense knows no such principle.
The value of a thing is what it will produce, and it admits
of no precise standard. One man, in the disposal of his property, may sell it for less than another would. If courts of
equity were to unravel all these transactions, they would throw
every thing into confusion, and set afloat the contracts of mankind. Such a consequence would of itself be sufficient to
show the injustice and impracticability of adopting the doctrine,
that mere inadequacy of consideration should form a distinct
ground for relief. Still, theremay be such an unconscionable.
ness or inadequacy in a bargain, as to demonstrate some 'gross
imposition or some undue influeice; and in such cases courts
of equity ought to interfere, upon satisfactory ground of fraud;
but then, such unconscionableness or suci inadequacy should
be made out as would, to use an expressive phrase, shock the
conscience, and amount in itself to conclusive and decisive evidence of fraud. Vide Story's Equity, § 245 -246, and 9 Ves.
246; 10 Id. 219; and other cases there cited.
But the contract between the parties in this case should not
be controlled by a comparison between the subject obtained and
the consideration given in a'mere pecuniary point of view; added to this, were the motives of affection for the wife of the
grantee, the granddaughter of the grantor, a conviction in the
latter of. what justice dictated towards the children of the decedent in relation to his property; the prospect of ease and
independence on the part of this elderly female; her exemption
from the expense, the perplexities, and hazards of managing a
species of property to the management of which expense and
energy and skill were indispensable; property to the tenure of
which she entertained and expressed inmuperable objections.
Here, then, in addition to the sums of money paid, or secured
to be paid, we see considerations of great influence which,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

61

Eyre et al. v. Potter et al.

naturally, justly, and lawfully, might have entered into this
contract, and which we think cannot be disregarded in its interpretation, upon any sound construction of the testimony in
the cause. Upon the first view of this case, it may, in the spectacle of the widow and ihe son bargaining over the unburied
corpse of the husband and the father for a partition of his property, be thought to exhibit a proceeding revolting to decorum,
and one, therefore, which a court of equity, equally with a
court of morals, would be cautious in sustaining, or be inclined
to condemn; yet, upon testing this proceeding by any principle
of decency, as well as of law or equity, it is manifest that it
could not be disturbed without benefit to the chief offender
against such a test; for the evidence incontestably shows, that
whatever in the conduct of the parties was inconsistent vth
the highest and most sacred relations in life - whatever may be
thought to have offended against the solemnity and decorum of
the occasion,- was commenced and pressed to its consummation
by the plaintiff in this case. Tried, then, by this standard, she
should be left precisely where she has placed herself.
To avoid the consequences flowing from the acts of the complainant touching the matters of this controversy, the testimony
of several witnesses, taken in the city of Philadelphia, has been
introduced, to prove the mental as well as physical incompetence of the complainant. With respect to the character and
purposes of this testimony, it may be remarked, that a position
in a court of justice founded upon what is in effect the stultification of the person who assumes that position, is one to be
considered with much diffidence, as it admits in general the
factun which it seeks to invalidate; and if the averments on
which such position rests be true, the person occupying that
position should be in court by guardian or committee. But in
truth this testimony establishes no such position, either directly
or inferentially, in reference to the complainant. In the first
place, all these witnesses resided in a different State, and at
the distance of many hundreds of miles from the complainant;
and not one of them appears to have had any intercourse with
her or to have seen her even for a series of years preceding the
contract which it is essayed to vacate; nor to have had any lnowledge of the existence of that contract until after its completion; nor of the state of mind or of the health of the complainant at the period at which that contract was found. In
addition to this ignorance of these witnesses, of the transaction
under review, and of all the circumstances surrounding it, there
is no fact stated by one of them which amounts to proof of
incapacity on the part of the complainant to comprehend the
character of her acts, and of the legal consequences incident to
VOL. XV.

6

SUPREM1E COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

them; and much less do they establish, as to her, such an aberration or imbecility of mind as would justify a presumption,
and much less a legal conclusion, against the validity of any
and every act she might perform. To such a conclusion only
could the general expressions of opinion and belief of these
witnesses apply, and such a conclusion they come very far short
of establishing.
We are therefore of opinion, that the decree of the Circuit
Court should be affirmed, and the same is hereby affirmed with
costs.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of North Carolina, and was argued by counsel. On
adjudged, and
consideration whereof, it is now, here ordered,
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

HENRY O'REILLY, EUGENE L. WHITMAN, AND W. F. B. HASTINGS, APPELLANTS, V. SAMUEL F. B. MORSE, ALFRED VAIL,

AND FAtNcxs 0. J. SMITH.
Morse was the first and original inventor of the electro-mognetic telegraph, for which
a patent was issued to him in 1840, and reissued in 1348. His invention was prior
to that of Steinhiel of Munich. or Wheatstone or Davy of England.
Their respective dates compared.
But even if one of these European inventors had preceded him for a short time, this
circumstance would not have invalidated his .patent. A previous discovery in a
foreign country does not render a patent void, unless such discovery or some substantial part of it had been before patented or describ.-d in a printed publication.
And these inventions are not shown to have been so.
Besides, there is a substantial and essential difference between M1orse's and theirs;
that of Morse being decidedly superior.
An inventor does not lose his right to a patent because he has made inquiries or
sought information from other persons. If a combination of different elements be
used, the inventors may confer with men as well as consult books to obtain this
various knowledge.
There is nothing in the additional specifications in the reissued patent of 1848, inconsistent with those of the patent of 1840.
The first seven inventions, set forth in the specifications of his claims, are not subject
to exception. Thp eighth is too broad and covers too much ground. It is thi. d I
do not propose to limit myself to the specific machinery or parts of machinery described in the foregoing specification and claims; the essence of my invention being
the use of the motive power of the electric or galvanic current, which I call electromagnetism, however developed, for making or printing rtelligible characters, signs
or letters at any distances, being a new application of tl at power, of which I claim
to be the first inventor or discoverer."
The case of Neilson 'and others v. Harford and others, in ':he English Exchequer Re.

