DECFMBER TERM, 1853.

367

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

THE EXECUTORS Or JOHN MCDONOGH, DECEASED, AND OTHERS,
v. MARY MURDOCH AND OTHERS, HEIRS or JOHN McDoNoGH,
DECEASED.
McDonogh, a citizen of Louisiana, made a will, in which, after bequeathing certain
legacies not involved in the present controversy, he gave, willed, and bequeathed
of theofcities
the corporations
prope
aU the rest, residue, and remainder of hisone
the
for the education
halfrtytotoeach,
of New Orleans and Baltimore forever,
poor in those cities.
was to be
The
each city. into real property, and managed by six agents, three
by converted
he appointed
to estate
No alenation of this general estate was ever to take place, under penalty of forfeiture,
lan
d Louisiana were to become his residuary devisees
the States of
when
for the purpose of educating the poor of those States.
to direeeff'ect
proposed
the testator
by which
the plan
inclear
complexity
is
a
and his
there
Although
his legatees,
the cities
to make
is
intention
his
yet
purpose,
his
tions about the agency are merely subsidinry to the general objects of his will, and
eg9!I nd practicable, or otherwise, can exert no influence over the question
whether
of its validity.
a right to receive
Thne city of New Orleans, being a corporation established bylaw, has granted
to it, and
a legacy for the purpose of exercsing the powers which have been
amongt these powers and duties is thatof establishing public schoos for gratuitous
education.
point
thisthis
upon in
civil and English
The
, or jee commisa
are not "substitutions
wll compared:
property
of thelaw
h dispositions
code.
Louisiana
the
by
forbidden
are
which
The meaning of those terms explained and defined:
of his legacy.
and destination
use prohibition
the the
to define
authorized
wasannexed
The
or to divide'the
to alienate
legacy,
to this
conditions
The testator
or their care and
cities,
the
of
beor to separate in its management the interest
estate,
contrl, or to deviate from the testator's scheme, do not invalidate the bequest,
icos and morrtis
inter
dispositions
all
"in
that
provides
cause the Louisiana Code
are
catsa, impossible conditions, those which are contrary to the laws or to morals
written."
not
reputed
examined:
The difference between the civil and common law, upon this point,
to receive this legacy under the
The city of Baltimore is entitled and empowered
article in the
The
it.
forbid
not
do
Louisiana
of
laws of Maryland; and the laws
made in favor of a
code of the latter State, which says that "Donations may be dispositions
in favor
straher, when the laws of his country do not prohibit similar
or corporaeta citizen of this State," does not most probably apply to the citizens not
prohibit
oreover, the laws of narylad do
tons of the States of the Union.
similar disipositons in favor of a citizen of Louisiana.
affect
not
city of Baltimore, does
The destination of the lega y to public uses in thena.
the valid operation of the bequest in Louisia
charged upon their
The citiys of New Orleans and Baltimore, having the annuities
question
legacies, would be benefited by the invalidity of these legacies. Upon thesuit,
viz.,
of their validity, this court expresses no opinion. But the parties to this
the heirs at law, could not chunm them,
of
In case of the filur or the devise to the cities, the limitation over to tie States
saryland and Louisiana would have been operative.

TIS was an appeal from he Circuit Court of the United

States for tohe Eastern District of Louisian, sitting as a court
of equity.
qt of
The bill was fied by the appellees, as the heirs a law
John lcDonogh, to set aside his will.
The will itself is too long to be inserted in this report of the
printed pages.
t
case; it would, of itself, occupy more than thir
made out by
it,
of
statement
following
The reporter adopts the

368

SUPREME

COURT.

Executors of MeDonogh ct al. v. Murdoch et al.

the following French jurists, whose opinion was requested upon
the whole case, viz.: Coin-Delisle, Advocate, late of the Council
of the Order of Advocates of Paris; Delangle, late Bastonier of
the Order of Advocates of Paris; Giraud, LL.D., a member of
the National Institute; -Duranton, P~re, Advocate, Professor in
the Law Faculty.of Paris; Marcad6, Advocate, late Advocate in
the Court of Cassation.

Statement of the facts of.thc case.
John McDonogh, a native of Baltimoe, an inhabitant of
McDonoghville, State of Louisiana, made his olographic will
at McDonogliville aforesaid, on the 29th of December, 1838,
according to the forms prescribed by the local law.
No question is raised about the form of the instrument; nor
could it be otherwise. The Civil Code of Louisiana gives every
man the right of making an olographic will. Such a will, in
Louisiana, as in France, is one written by the testator himself;
and, in order to be valid, it must be entirely written, dated, and
signed by the testator's own hand. (Art. 1581.) This kind of
will is subject to no other form, and may be made anywhere,
even out of the State. (Same art.) These are the same rules
as those contained in arts. 970 and 999 of tLe French Civil Code.
John McDonogh died in October, 1850. His will was proved
in due -form of law.
This will has'been printed at New Orleans, at full length, with
the testator's instructions appended, under -:hetitle of" The last
Will and Testament of John McDonogh, late of McDonoghville,
State of Louisiana; also his Menioranda of Instructions to his
Executors, &c." 'Wedo not mean to give it here in extenso,
deeming a synopsis of it quite sufficient for our purpose.
The testator, after having called on the holy name of God,
commences, by diclaring that lie was nev, r married, and that
he has no heirs living, either in the ascending or the descending
line. So that, according to the laws of the State, his power of
willing away his property was unlimited. Civil Code of Louisiana, 1483.
He orders that, immediately after his death, an inventory shall
be made of his property, by a notary public, assisted by i\vo or
more persons, whon his executors shall appoint; the same to
be done on oath.
First comes a devise to thechildren o. his sister .Tane, the
widow of Mr. Hamet, of Baltimore, of land which he purchased
ol the 29th of February, 1819, of one John Payne, in Baltimore
county. This lot, containing ten acres, m ore or less, together
with the improvements, goes to his nephews aforesaid, a life
estate in the same being, however, reserved to their mother.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

369

Exc-utors of McDonogh ot al. v. Murdoch et al.

He also bequeathes to his said sister, widow Hamet, six thousand dollars, recommending to her so to place the capital as to
make the interest support her in her old age.
He then bequeathes their freedom to certain slaves, fixes a
fifteen years' term of service to be performed by certain others
on his plantations, and orders the remainder of his black people
to be sent-to Liberia by the American Colonization Society.
And now, in language expressive of piety towards God, and
charity towards mankind, the testator (after having made these
deductions for his sister, Mrs. Harnet, for the. children of his
sister,. and for the freedom of a certain number of slaves) goes
on to lay down what may be called emphatically his will.
He gives, wills and bequeathes, all the rest, residue, and remainder of his estate, real and personal, present and future, as
well that which is now his, as that which may be acquired by
him hereafter, at any time previous to his death, and of which
he may die possessed, of whatsoever nature it may be, and
wheresoever situate, unto the Mayor, Aldermen and Inhabitants of New Orleans, his adopted city, and the Mayor, Aldermen and Inhabitants of Baltimore, his native city, and their
successors forever, in equal proportions of one half to each of
the said cities of New Orleans and Baltimore.
He wills, at the same time, that the entire mass of property
thus bequeathed and devised, shall remain charged with several
annuities or sums of money, to be paid by the devisees of his
general estate, out of the rents of said estate.
He adds, that the legacies to the two cities are for certain
purposes of public utility, and especially for the establishment
and support of free schools in said cities and their respective
suburbs, (including the town of McDonogh, as a suburb of New
Orleans,) wherein the poor, and the poor only, of both sexes, of
all classes and castes of color, shall have admittance, free of
expense, for the purpose of being instructed in the knowledge
of the Lord. and in reading, writing, arithmetic," history, geography, and singing, &-., &c.

This is the principal object of the testator's bounty, as appears by the words which usher in the general devise: "And
for the more general diffusion of knowledge, and consequent
well-being of mankind, convinced as I am, that I can make no
disposition of these worldly goods which the Most High has
been pleased so bountifully to place under my stewardship, that
vdll be so pleasing to him, as that by which the poor will be
instructed in wisdom, and led into the path of virtue and happiness, I give," &c.
For the execution of his will, and with the unequivocal intent
of increasing his real estate, after his death, the testator appoints

370

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

executors, to whom he gives the seisin of all his personal estate,
corporeal and incorporeal, and clothes them with the most extensive powers, without the interference of judicial or extrajudicial authority.
As relates to his real estate, such as it will be found to be at
his death, which estate he has just devised to the cities of New
Orleans and Baltimore, he expressly forbids the Mayor, Aldermen and Inhabitants of each of the cities, and their successors,
ever to alienate or sell any part thereof; but the cities shall let
the lots improved with houses, to good tenants, by the month
or year; they shall let the unimproved lots in New Orleans, its
suburbs, town of McfDonogh, or elsewhere, for a term not to
exceed twenty-five years at any one time, the rent payable
monthly or quarterly, and to revert back, at the end of said time,
with all the improvements thereon, free of cost, to the lessors;
and, as to the lands, wherever situate, in the different parishes
of-the State, the cities shall lease them in small tracts, for a
term not to exceed one to ten years, revertible back with their
improvements, to be re-leased for a shorter time, and at higher
rates.
As concerns his personal estate, (which, as we have seen in
the general bequest above, also belongs to the cities of New
Orleans and Baltimore,) the testator instructs his testamentary
executors to invest his personal estate of all kinds, as well as
the amount of all debts owing -o him, as fast as they are received, together with the interest and increase, in real estate of
a particular description, to wit: lots of ground, improved and
unimproved, lying in the city or suburbs of New Orleans, and
to hand over said real estate, with the title-deeds, to the commissioners and agents of his general estate, so that, by said
means, the whole of his estate, real and personal, shall become
a permanent fund on interest, as it were, (viz. a fund in real
estate affording rents) ; no part of which fund shall ever be
touched, divided, sold, or alienated, but shall forever remain
together as one estate, termed in his 'will, "-the general estate,"
and be managed; as hereinafter directed. The net amount of
therevenues collected annually shall be divided equally, half
and half, between the two cities of New Orleans and Baltimore,
by the pommissioners and gents of the general estate, after
paying the several annuities" and sums of money hereinafter
provided for, and applied forever-to the purposes for which. it is
intended.
The testator, dividing into eight equal portions the revenues
of his estate, thus made up of the immovables left ab his decease, and of those which shall be acquired by his executors,
with the aid of his personalty and the interest accruing on his

DECTEMB'ER TER31,

1853.

371

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

credits, gives and bequeathes the first eighth part of the net
yearly revenue of the whole, during forty years, to the American Colonization Society for colonizing the free people of color
of the United States; but the society shall not receive or demand, in, any one year, a larger sum than $25,000.
He gives and bequeathes the second eighth part of the net
yearly revenue of the whole to the Mlayor, Aldermen, and Inhabitants of the city of New Orleans, until said eighth part of
the net yearly revenue of rents shall amount to the full and entire sum of $600,000; and that for the express and sole purpose
of establishing an asylum for the poor of both sexes, and of all
ages and castes of color.
He gives and bequeathes the third eighth part of the net
yearly revenue of the whole to the Society for the Relief of
Destitute Orphan Boys of New Orleans, for the express and
sole purpose of its being invested in real estate, until the annuity shall amount to the full sum of $400,000, exclusive of the
interest-which may have accrued on it.
He gives and bequeathes the fourth eighth part of the net
yearly revenue of the entire estate to the Mayor, Aldermen, and
Inhabitants of the city of Baltimore, for the express and sole
purpose of establishing a School Farm, on an extensive scale,
for the destitute male children of Baltimore, of every town and
village of Maryland, and of the great maritime cities of the
United States, until the said eighth part shall amount to the
sum of $3,000,000.
There now remains the revenue of one half or four eighths
of the revenue of what the testator styles his general estate.
The two cities of New Orleans and Baltimore being the principal legatees, it is obvious that they are entitled to the four
eighths not bequeathed by a particular title; consequently, it is
laid down that, until such time as these four annuities, beque, thed under a particular title, shall have been paid off and
expire, the cities of New Orleans and Baltimore shall receive,
for the establishment and support of said free schools, one half
only of the net yearly revenue of rents of the general estate,
and no more.
Moreover, the total amount to be received by each of the le.
gatees of one eighth of the revenue, until the-respective sums
of $25,000, $600,000, $400,000, or $3,000,000 are realized, show*
that one of the annuities is to determine before the others are
paid off. The testator, therefore, orders -that, as soon as an1y
one of the annuities shall be filled and paid off, the proportions
of the net yearly revenue of rents of the general estate, which
were payable under the extinct annuity, shall go and be payable to the annuity, bequeathed to the city of Baltimore, for

372

SUPREME COo'Rd

.

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

the establishment of a School Farm; so that the $3,000,000
may be made up in as short a space of time as possible. It
will not be till the full and entire discharge of the annuities,
that the two cities will divide between them the net yearly
revenue of rents of the general estate.
We will now turn our attention to the means and devices
adopted by the testator to improve the condition of his particular legatees.
He forbids the alienation of the real estate which he leaves
at his death to the two cities; and points out how the houses
shall be let for short terms, the unimproved lots let for twenty-five
years, at most, so as to be revertible, together with all improvements, to the mass of his estate; and the lands leased out, so
as to bring in returns more and more ample.
He also orders his testamentary executors to invest his personalty in houses and building lots in New Orleans aid its
suburbs.
He has not ordered any thing of the kind for the $26,000 of
the Colonization Society (first eighth.) The sum is a small one,
and can be paid off in a short time.
But as reslects the Society for the Relief of Destitute Orphans, (third eighth,) he gives this third eighth part of the revenues'to be first'deposited in one or more cf the banks in New
Orleans, which allow interest on deposits; and then, always
with the approbation of the Mayor, Aldermen, and Inhabitants
of New Orleans, who shall become parties to the deeds, the said
society shall invest the money, as good purchases offer, in houses
and lots, lying in New Orleans and its suburbs, so that such real
estate, once acquired, shall be inalienable, and shall for ever be
retained and held by it, and remain its property, in order that
the revenue of the said real estate may be sufficient for the support of the institution.
With respect to the particular legacy bequeathed to the city
of New Orleans, for the purpose of establishing an Asylum for
the Poor, (second eighth,)lie orders that, annually or semiannually, the amount of the fractions of eighths be invested as
the commissioners receive it, in bank stocks, or other good s6curities on landed estate, on interest, so that the capital of
$3,000,000, may be thereby augmented up_ to the time when
the last of the annuity shall be received Jrom the general estate; that, after this period, (or even earlier, if a favorable opportunity occur,) one third of the whole (not more) be invested
in the purchase of landed estate, in the erection of buildings,
and the furnishing of necessary articles; and the remainder, or*
two thirds at least, invested in the purchase of such houses and
building lots, in New Orleans and its submbs, as will probably

DECEMBER TERM

1853.

373

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

greatly augment in value; which real estate, when purchased,
shall never be alienated, but a permanent revenue derived therefrom for the support of the institution.
Again, as regards the particular legacy bequeathed to the city
of Baltimore for a School Farm, (fourth eighth,) which legacy
is to reach the amount of $3,000,000, to be taken out of the
eighth charged therewith, and out of the other three eighths
as soon as the other three legacies are finally paid off, the fund
must be increased as it -is received, by investing the moneys in
bank stocks, or other good securities on landed estate, on interest; and this capital, with its increase, shall be invested, for
one sixth part at th6 utmost, in the pu.zhase of such land, animals, and agricultural implements as the institution shall need;
and the other five sixths invested in the purchase of houses and
building lots situated in the city, suburbs, and vicinage of Baltimore, or of tracts of land in its immediate neighborhood, viz.,
such lots or lands (to be all purchased under fee-simple titles)
as will probably greatly augment in value. 'And, il this instance too, the real estate, when purchased, is never to be sold
or alienated, but is to remain forever the property of the institution, to the end that a permanent revenue may be derived therefrom.
We will now examine the measures taken by the testator to
prevent the cities from giving the moneys a different destination
from that prescribed by the testator.
Not content with appointing testamentary executors, McDo.
nogh, wishing to debar the city corporations from the handling
of moneys, has ordered that there be commissioners of his estate, having a principal and central office in the city of New
Orleans, where all the muniments and papers relating to his
affairs may be kept, as well for the Asylum for the Poor, for the
investment of the moneys due to the Orphan Relief Society,
for the School Farm of Baltimore, as for the management of
the general estate, or fund for the education of the poor.
These commissioners are to have -the sole management of the
general estate, the leasing and renting of its lands and houses,
the cultivating of its estates, the collecting of its rents, the paying of tue annuities bequeathed as above, and are to do all acts
necessary to its full and perfect management.
These commissioners cannot be members of the City Councils; but they shall be appointed by the City Councils of New
Orleans, as regards the Asylum for the Poor; by the Mayorand
City Councils, as respects the School Farm at Baltimore, with
the style of Directors; by the respective City Councils of New
Orleans and Baltimore, as to the management of the fund fol
the education of the poor.
VOL. XV.

32

374

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonoglh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

New appointments shall be made annually, on a day fixed
by the will.
The city councils shall have a supervisilon over their operalions ; and to them the commissioners are liable for the performance of all their duties, and must annually render an account
of their administration.
Besides these commissioners, each city shall have agents on
the spot to represent its commissioners; and these agents shall
also be appointed by the mayors and city councils.
And, after the payment of the annuities, the respective commissioners, or the agents representing them, shall receive one
moiety of the net revenue of the year, to be disposed of conformably to the will.
As for the purchases to be made, before the full payment of
the annuities by the Commissioners of the Asylum for the
Poor, they must be approved by the 'Mayor and City Councils
of New Orleans. The same rule is laid down for the purchases to be made by the Directors of the School Farm. They
must be approved by the Mayor and Ci-y Council of Baltimore.
The testator recommends to the Commissioners of the Asylum for the Poor to apply to the legislature of the State of
Louisiana for an act of incorporation, subject always, however,
to the conditions provided for in the will. He has also recommended, in the same language and under the same conditions,
to the Directors of the Farm School, to apply, for the same purpose, to the legislature of the State of Maryland. He recurs,
to the same idea, using the same phraseology; and with the intent, no doubt, that his general estate shold become a juridical person, he also recommendsto the commissioners to sue out.
ait act of incorporation for said general estate, always subject
to the conditions laid down in the will.
We omit a variety of minute regulations concerning the publication of the annual accounts, tie building and locality of
school-houses and residences for teachers, the school organization, the immense lands fdr the Poor Asylum, together with
the high-flown disquisitions in which the testator indulges.
All this matter appears to be foreign to the controversy. The
whole may be reduced to these few words: "The cities are the
devisees; 'but the administration of the property devised shall
be carried on forever by commissioner7 appointed by the cities,
and accountable to them; and it shall be ihe duty of said commissiciners to hand over the moneys to the new public institutions which the testator orders to be create d."
The testator goes on to say: " No compromise shall ever
take place between the Mayor, Aldermen, and Inhabitants of

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

375

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

Baltirore, and those of New Orleans, or their successors, in
relation to their respective rights to my general estate."
" Neither party shall receive from the other, by agreement, a
certain -.um of money annually, or otherwise, for its respective
proportions. Neither party shall sell its respective rights under
this will, to the general estate, to the other or to others; but
,,aid general estate shall forever remain, and be m'naged, as J
have pointed out, ordered, and directed.
"And should the Mayor and Aldermen of New Orleans, and
the Mayor and Aldermen of Baltimore, combine together, and
knowingly and wilfully violate any of the conditions hereinbefore and hereinafter directed, for the management of the
general estate, and the application of the revenue arising therefrom, then I give and bequeathe the rest, residue, remainder, and
accumulations of my said general estate, (subject always,
however, to the payment of the aforementioned annuities,) to
the States of Louisiana and Maryland, in equal proportions, to
each of said States, of half and half, for the phrpose of educating the poor of said States, under such a general system of
education as their respective legislatures shall establish by law,
(always&understood afid provided, however, that the real estate
thus destined by me for said purpose of education, shall never
be sold, or alienated, but shall be kept) and managed as they,
the said legislatures of said States, shall establish by law, as a
fund yielding rents forever; the rents only of which general
estate shall be taken and expended for said purpose of educating the poor of said respective States, and for no other.) And
itjfurthermore my wish and desire, and I hereby will, that in
case there should be a lapse of both the legacies to the cities of
New Orleans and Baltimore, or either of them, wholly or in
part, by refusal to accept, or any other cause or means whatsoever, then, both or either of said legacies, wholly or, partially
lapsed, shall inure, as far as it relates to New Orleans, to the
State of Louisiana, and, as far as it relates to Baltimore, to the
State of Maryland, that the legislatures of those States, respectively, may carry out my intentions, as set forth in this mywill, as
far and in the manner which will appear to them most proper."
In October, 1852, the Judge of the District Court, sitting as
a Circuit Judge, passed the following decree, viz.
That all that part of the olographic will of John MeDonogh,
beginning at the second paragraph with the words "It is my
will and Idirect my executors, (hereinafter named,) immediately
after my death, to correspond," &c., on the second page, numbered as the sixth page of the printed copy of the will on file,
and ending with the words "or otherways, and held and owned
by said corporations," 'on the 33d page of the said printed copy

376

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of 3cDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

of said will, being all and every portion of said will relative to
the city of New Orleans, the city of Baltimore, the State of

Louisiana, and the State of Maryland, the
the Colonization Society, a projected asylum
the Society for the relief of Destitute Orphan
school farm in Maryland, free public ,schools

"'general estate,"
in New Orleans,
Boys, a projected
in New Orleans

and Baltimore, and the appointment of various boards of commissioners, agents, directors, &c., and for the investment and
accumulation of the estate; -be, and all said provisions are,
declared illegal, null, and of no force and effect whatever; and
that as to all the estate of said deceased, except such as is disposed of in the first paragraph of said will, the deceased died
intestate, and his estate fell, by his death, to his heirs at law.
That complainants are heirs at law of the deceased John
McDonogh, ifh the following proportions, -to wit: Maria Louisa
Ord, wife of Pacificus Ord, Laura J. Welsh, Thomas Welsh,
Frank E. Welsh, and William P. Welsh, minort, represented
by their guardian, William F. Murdoch, are heirs of twelve
seventieths, (I ths) ; one half of said portion being for the said
"Maria Louisa, and the other half being equally divided between
gaid minors. Anne Cole, Mary Murdoch, wife of William F.
Murdoch, Eliza Hayne, wife of Geor-.. Hayne, George F. Cole,
Louisa Sheffey,-wife of Hugh W. Sheffey, %nd the children of
Margaret Cole, the deceased wife of George P. Jenkins, namely,
George Jenkins, Mary McDonogh Jenkins, and Conway AL
Jenkins, minprs, represented by their father George T. Jenkins,
are heirs of twelve seventieths of the estate. The said Anna,
Mary, Eliza, George F., and Louisa, each to take one sixth part
of .said portion, and the remaining one sixth part thereof to be
equally divided- betw ien said minors. Sarah Day, -wife of
Nicholas Day, is heir of twelve seventieths of the estate. Jane
Beaver, wife of William Beaver, Sarah 'Beaver, wife of Jacob
Beaver, Robert L. *Hammett, Jesse Hammett, Anne Maria
Snook, wife of" Peter .Snook, Eliza Anderson, -wife of Joseph
C Anderson, and the children of Margaret Hammett, deceased,
(said children not being parties,) are heirs of ftwelye seventieths
of the estate; the said Jane, Sarah, Robert, Jesse, Ann, and
Eliza, to take each a seventh part of said portion, and the
remaining seventh to be reserved for the children of said Margaret, when they'shall make themselves parties, and on due
proof. Rosalba P. Lynch, wife. of Andrew H. Lynch, is heir
of twel.ve'seventieths of the estate; the remaining ten seventieths to be -eserved tor the heirs of the half-blood, wNhen they
shall make themselves parties, and on due proof. That the
said complainants recover of the defendants' executors of the
will of the deceased all and singular the property, real and per-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

377

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

sonal, corporeal and incorporeal, composing the estate of the
deceased, and especially all and singular the property of the
deceased, in the several parishes of the State of Louisiana,
mentioned or comprised in the inventory of the succession,
prepared by Thomas Layton and Adolph Mazureau, notaries
public, a copy of which is in evidence; and that said complainants have execution, and be put in possession of the same, in
conformity with law and the rules'of court. That reference be
made to the Xnaster in chancery for an account of the administration of the said executors, from the death of the deceased to
the execution of this decree; and that said executors account
to the said master in the premises, and that said master report
to the court; and so much of the said bl as demands said
account and the recovery of any moneys in the hands of said
executors, is retained for further decree. That any other person
or persons, not now parties to the proceedings, claiming title
to the estate of -the deceased, or any part thereof, be allowed to
present their claims respectively before this Court, to make due
proofs thereof, and to become. parties to the proceedings for the
due establishment and adjudication thereof. That the costs of
the complainants and of the executors, be paid out of the succession of said deceased,, and the costs of the other parties
defendant by themselves respectively.
Decree rendered 7th October, 1852.
Signed 26th October, 1852.
THEo. H. MeCALEB, United States Tdge.
[SEAL.]
From this decree, the executors appealed to this couft.
It was argued by 11r. Brent, 3Mr. May, and 1ir. Hurt,for the
appellants, and.by 3ir. Benjamin and _ir. Johnsonfor, the appellees. There were also briefs filed, being adopted by the counsel
in this cause, prepared by the French jurists above spoken of,
by Mr. Pierce and Mr. Grailhe whieh were used before the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, in a case wherein that State contended that the legacies had become lapsed, and consequently
inured, in part, to the benefit of that Stata.
From all this-mass of materials, the reporter can only extract
notices of some of the most important points which were
discussed.
The counsel for the appellants arranged their arguments
under the following heads:
First. That the validity of these legacies and annuities
depends exclusively on the local laws of Louisiana.
Secondly. That* the exposition of those laws, -written or
unwritten, by the courts of Louisiana, form part of the local
S2*

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

law, and as such will be followed and respected by the Federal
courts, and this, whether expressed by a series of decisions or
a single one, pronounced, by the State couit "post litemnmotam,"
or even after the decision of this cause in the United States
Circuit Court.
Thirdly. That by the laws of Louisiana, legacies for the
benefit of the poor, or for education, or establishments of public
utility, are legacies to pious uses, and, as such are preeminently
favored and protected by law, so much s:, that they shall not
be suffered,' in any event, to fail, unless found liable to be
annulled, as "substitutions orfidei commi'.ssa.
Fourthly. That the universal legatees (the cities) have legal
capacity to take the legacies bequeathed to them.
Fifthly That legacies like these are, in no respect, subject
to the prohibitions against substitutions andfidei commissum.
. Sixhly. That whatever conditions are found in the annuities
or legacies, of an illegal or impossible charactr, are to be considered as erased from the will, by operation and judgment of
law, and i0o illegal or impossible clause, w.'ich is not a condition
to the legacies, can prove prejudicial.
Seventhly. That even the lapse or annulment of the annuities, from any cause, they being distinct from the universal
legacies,
sofar from affecting their validity, would benefit them,
by inuring, entirely and exclusively, to their increase and benefit.
.Eighthly. That the two cities are invested ',-ith a sufficient

legal
tite
as univealprovisions,
l legates,repugnant
which is not impeached, either
by any
subsequent
to the nature of the
*owniership' instituted in them, or by any illegal or impossible
coEditions annexed by the testator to his legacies, because the
title bequeathed, can well stand-without, and discharged from
the conditions thus imposed, wherever they may be illegal or
impossible.
Ninthly. That this very will of Mcclonogh has been finally
and authoritatively adjudicated by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, to be valid under the la.ws of that S~tate; and such'being
the judgment of the highest State tribunal, it is conclusive

upon this court, upon all questions invocing the laws of Lou-

isiana, and can only be revised, or its "authority denied, on the
ground that it is in some respect, in conflict with the Constituton or laws of t'he United States.
Fifth point. Legacies like these are, in no respect, subject to

the prohibitions against substitutions andfdei commissa.
Both substitutions andfidei commissa ae prohibited by the
Civil Code, Art. 1507.

The legacies tothe cities cannot be brcught within the category of either of the. four classes of substitutions, known to the
'civil or Spanish Law. ohnuson's Civil Law of Spain, 132.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Executors of McDonogh ot al. v. Murdoch et al.

The vulgar substitution would apply to the substituted legacies over to the States. Johnson's Civil Law, 132.
And the, States, therefore, could not take, in the face of the
prohibition of Art. 1507, but for the express saving contained
in Art. 1509, which declares, that fl the disposition by which a
third person is called to take the*gift, the inheritance, or the
legacy, in case the donee, the heir, or the legatee, does not take
it, shall not be considered a substitution, and shall be valid."
Nor is there any thing of the "substitution,fidei coanissaria,"
which is made by giving it in trust to some one appointed heir,
to hold the inheritance for a given time, that he may deliver it
afterwards to another." Johnson's Civil Law, 126; Beaulieu
v. Ternoir, 5 Annual, p. 480. See also the case decided by
the Court of Cassation in France, cited in the appendix to this
brief.
There is, therefore, nothing of a pi ohibited substitution in this
will, and especially none in respect to the title of the cities.
Fidei comrnissa are equally prohibited by Art. 1507, but there
is this difference, that a prohibited substitution annuls the first
legacy, in respect to which there is a substituted legatee, while
in the case of afidei commission, the first legacy is not avoided
if the trust, orfidei commissure, be to a third party for the benefit
of the second, or substituted legatee, and distinct from the'first
legacy. 5 Annual, 480-1; DuPessis v. Kennedy, 6 L. R. 247.
Therefore, to avoid the title of the cities on this ground, there
must be either a bequest, in trust for them, or to them in trust
for a third party.
Let us examine the decisions on this question.
Inthe case of Franklin's will, Chief Justice Eustis declared,
that "the prohibition certainly embraced the substitutions, and
thefidei conznissum of the Roman, the French, and the Spanish
laws." , See page 21 of his opinion.
And, in the same case, he considers fidei coirnissun synonymous with trust, under the English law. And this court has
decided the prohibition to extend only to express trusts. Gaines
v. Chew, 2 Howard, 650.
Now, to constitute a case of strict trust, under the English
law, or of fide! commissum, under the civil law, the trust must
not be for the benefit or use of the trustee.
If a legacy is to A, in trust for his own use, it would not be
a trust, either under the English or civil law.
Legacies to corporations, or funds in their possession for
public purposes, will be enforced in' equity as charitable funds.
2 Spence's Eq. 34; see Attorney-General v. I-eelis, 2 Sim. & St.
76; Attorney-General v. Carlisle, 2 Sim. 427; Attorney-General v. Brown, 1 Swanst. 297.

380

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of Mcflonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

It is true that, in the parlance of English chancellors, a devise to a corporation for the benefit of its poor, or for any charitable purpose connected with the purposes of the corporation,
is loosely termed a trust, which chancery will enforce; but
though such a dedication to charitable uses be fiduciary in its
nature, yet we confidently submit, that a legacy to a corporation
for the benefit of its poor, or any establishment of public utility,
is not that sort of express trust to which the prohibition in the
Code of Louisiana has reference. If an individual is the trustee
for a third person, or for the poor, it might be safely admitted,
that in both cases it was afidei commissure, because he was a
stranger to the beneficiaries, but not so when corporations are
the legatees, and the legacies, in the words of this court in Vidal
v. Girard, 2 Howard, 189, are for purposes "germane to the
objects of the incorporation," and "relate to matters which will
.promote and aid and perfect those objects."
One of the illustrations is furnished in the same opinion of
this court, in 2 How~ard, 189, where it su :poses the case of a
devise to Philadelphia "to supply its inhabitants with good and
wholesome water."
That might, in some sense, be called a trust, but, "relating to
matters which promote, aid, and perfect the objects of incorporation, ' , it could not be considered that sort of trust in which the
beneficiary is foreign to the trustee, and therefore prohibited.
But it seems to us that this very question has been conclusively settled by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in the case
of DePontalba v. New Oileans, 3 Annual Reports, 662, decided
in 1848. See D. R. Richard v. Milne, 17 La. Rep. 320.
In that case the testator bequeathed a hospital to the city for
the use of lepers, and the city having afterwards, when there
were no lepers, converted it into a cemEtery, the court held
"that the city had a legal title to the property as against the
heir at law, though the purpose of the legacy had failed." Now
that was undoubtedly- a legacy in trust for the benefit of a particular class of the community of New Orleans, and would
have been termed by English chancellors a trust, still it was
held by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, to be a valid title in
the city, notwithstanding the prohibition against "fidei eommissa," which is not even noticed.
This decision, ifiade under Spanish laws reenacted, is the very
civil code which is now relied on to destroy legacies to the same
city for the support and education of its poor, has, therefore, in
our humble judgment conclusively and clea'ly exempted from the
prohibition of article 1507 all legacies to a city for the benefit
of its poor, or anywork of public utility, or any purpose "germane to the objects of incorporation."

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

381

Exe.utors of McfDonogh et al. v. Murdoch at al.

If these legacies for the "establishment of free schools in Baltimore and New Orleans" be stamped with the character of the
prohibited "fidei ebmrnissa," then you must, under the same
article of the code, annul every legaqy in trust for any legitimate
purpose of the corporation, or for establishments of utility and
benefit, and to accomplish that end you must not only declare
that legacies to corporations for their own benefit are trusts in
the meaning of the law, and as such within the prohibitiQn, but
you must reserve and strike down the well-settled construction
by her courts of the Civil Code of Louisiana. A doubt would
escape the prohibition. Cole v. Cole; 7 Martin, (N. S.) 418.
We will here beg leave to incorporate into this argument so
much of the opinion of Chief Justice Eustis, pronounced on this
will of MeDonogh, as relates to this question, and which seems
us unanswerable:
" That, without a positive prohibition, municipal corporations
in Louisiana should be incapacitated from receiving legacies for
the public purposes of health, education, and charity, seems to
me repugnant to all sound ideas of policy and to the reason of
the law.
"' What legacies could they be expected to receive except for
some public or humane object? Who would give a city a
legacy, to be absorbed by its debts or appropriated to common
expenses ? Certainly, so far as the conscience of the public is
concerned, a legacy of money to a city-without any designation
would be held to have b'cen given for some object of charity or
beneficence.
"I think there are articles in the code which exclude the conclusion as to the incapacity of the city of New Orleans to take
egacies of this kind.
"The article 1536 provides that donations for the benefit of
a hospital of the poor of a community, or of establishments of
public utility, shall be accepted by the administrators of such
communities or establishments.
"Provision is made by this article to give effect to donations
for the poor made by living persons, inter vivos, because in
donations of this kind the donor is not bound, and the donation
is without effect until the act of donation is signed and accepted
The article
by a party competent to receive the donation.
relates to the form of the act and provides for its acceptance and
the completion of the donation, and is not its legality presupposed? Is it not predicated upon the legality of this mode of
property for pious uses? Such appears to me to be the obvious
intendment of the article.
"There is not the slightest ground for any distnction as-to
the legality of the holding or ownership by d nation inter vivos

382

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of 31cfDonogh et al. v. Iffurdoch et al.

and mortis' causa-that is, that the property could be acquired
by one donation and not by the other.
"Nor does the law make any distinctioni between a legacy to
the poor of a city, and a legacy to ai city for the poor. For in
both cases it is a legacy to pious uses, and the city is the recipient. Domat, lib. 4, tit. 2; Sect. 2, ยง 13; Id. Sect. 6, ยง 1 et seq.
" The .article 1,543 provides that when the donation is made
to minors, to persons under interdiction, or to public, establishments, the registry shall be made at the instance of curators,
tutors, or administrators.
"The article 607 provides that the usufiuct granted to corporations, congregations, and other companies which are deemed
perpetual, lasts only thirty years. If these corporations, congregations, and companies are suppressed, abolished, or terninate
in any other manner, the usufruct ceases and becomes united
with the ownership.
"The legislation concerning the powers of the city of New
Orleans, I think, is in the same sense.
"Doubts having existed as to the power of the city to hold
property out of its limits, the corporation was declared ' capable
of holding or possessing 'real estate without its limits, and of
acquiring, retaining, and possessing, by donation or legacy, any
property, real or personal, whether situate within or without the
limits cf the city.' Act of 1830, p. 50. Digest of Stat. 144, ยง 150.
"I have no doubt of the legality of the testamentary disposition under consideration.
"I think it would follow, as a necessary consequence from the
definition, origin,-and nature of legacies to pious uses, that if
those in favor of the cities are of that sort, -those in favor of the
States, in the contingency provided, are of the same character.
The difference is, that in the former the mode of administration is regulated by the will, in the later it is left to the wisdom
and discretion of the legislative power.
"The administration of property devot.d to.pious uses by a
legacy, through the instrumentality of overseers, commissioners,
or a quasi corporation, makes no difference as to the title; both
in fact are legacies to pious uses, and not unlike the Girard
legacy maintained by this court in 2d Annual Reports, 898.
GiraTd Heirs v. New Orleans."
This opinion- was concurred in by W. Justice Dunbar.
Ninth Point.- !Te conclusiveness and binding effect of the judicial decisions of the State Gourds of Louisiana vtpon the constructon and exposition , the Civil Code and the Unwritten
Laws of thzt State.
In elucidating the above proposition, our remarks will neces-

DEOEMBER TERM, 1853.

383

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

sadly be confined exclusively almost to a corsideration of-the
decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States.
This case dependA on the construction to be given to the laws
of Louisiana, composed of a ritren code, and of so much of
the Roman, Spanish, and French lkws, as are judicially recog
nized as of authority in that State.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, in the case of the State
of Louisiana against the executors of MeDonogh, has given a
construction to this very will, founded on the local law, which,
in effect, defeats the claim of the heirs at law.
But before that judgment was pronounced, the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Louisiana, in a cause
instituted in that court by the heirs at law against the executors, decreed in favor of the heirs.
That decree is now before the Supreme Court of the United
States on appeal, and The important inquiry is,whether tho
decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana! is not conclusive
upon all-the questions in the case, depending on the construetion of either the written, or unwritten law of that State.
In casps depending on the laws of a particular State, the
Supreme Court of the United States has uniformly adopted the
construction which the supreme judicial tribuial of the State
has given to those laws. And the reason on which this fukl is
founded, is stated by Chief Justice Marshall to be, that "the
judicial department of every government, is the appropriate
organ for construing the legislative acts of that government."
10 Wheaton, 159.
The cases in which the Supreme Court has conformed to the
decisions of State courts, are very numerous. The following
h-'of references may save the trouble of search, though it does
not comprise the whole: 5 Cranch, 22; Id. 221; Id. 255; 6 Id.
165; 9 Id. 87; 2 Wheaton, 316; 5 Id. 270; 6 Id. 119; 7 Id:
361; 10 Id. 152; 11 Id..361; 12 Id. 153; 2 Peters, 492; Id. 89;
4 Id. 124; 6 Id. 291; 15 Id. 449; 5 Hoirard, 134; 6 Id. 1;
7 Id. 198, 219; Id. 812, 818; 10 Id. 401; 13 Id. 271 ; 14 Id. 485,
504.
In St. John v. Chew, 12 Wheaton, 153, it is said: " This
court adopts the local law of real property, as ascertained by
the decisions of the State courts, whether those decisions are
grounded on the construction of the statutes, or form a part of
the unwritten law of the State."
In Ehnendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheaton, 165, the court say:
"We must consider the construction as settled finally by the
courts of the State; and this court ought to adopt the same rule,
should we even doubt its correctness."
Neves v. Scott, 13 How. 271, decided that this court, on

384

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. 31ardoch et al.

appeal from the Circuit Court, would not be governed by the
decision of the Supreme Court of the State, upon any question
dependent upon general chancery principles; but the court
clearly intimate that it would be otherwise if the case had
depended uporr "the legislation of Georgia, or the local laws or
customs of that State."
In Nesmith v. Sheldon, 7 Howard, 812, in which the court, in
an equity cause, held a single decision of the Supreme Court of
Michigan on the same question to be conclusive, that question
depending on the construction of the cor stitution and local
laws of the State.
The court will not demand a series of State decisions, but
will hold itself bound by a single decision of the highest State
tribunal.
In the Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley, 2 Peters, 492, there was
but a single decision, and that by a divided court, and yet it
was regarded as conclusive.
In Gardner v. Collins, 2 Peters, 89, the court say: "If this
question had been settled by any judicial decision in the State
where the land lies, we should, upon the uniform principles
adopted by this court, recognize that decision as part of the
local law."
in the United States v. Morrison, 4 Peters, 124, and Green v.
Neal, 6 Peters, 291, a single decision of the highest State court,
was held sufficient.
Again: in the Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley, 2 'Peters, 492,
after the case had been argued in the Supreme Court, the court
hearing that the same question was depending before the highest
judicial tribunal of the State, (Ohio,) held the case under advisement till the next term, to receive the opinion, and after it had
been given, conformed to it. See also 7 Howard, 812, 818.
Again, the decision of a circuit judge, though made prior in
time to the decision of a State court, upon the same question,
does not affect the conclusiveness of the latter. Thus, in the
United States v. Morrison, 4 Peters, 124, the Circuit Court of
the United States for Virginia (Chief Justice Marshall, presiding) made a decision upon the construction of a State statute,
in regard to which different opinions had been entertained;
subsequently to which, the same question was decided the other
way- by the court of appeals of Virginia. And though this
State decision had not been reported, but Wa "quoted in manuscriptwhen the case came .before the Supreme Court of the
United States, Chief Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion,
reversed his own judgment in the Circuit Court.
The rule was afterwards conformed to in a still stronger case.
The Su -reme Court had twice decided the same question, as to

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

S85

Executors of MeDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

the true construction of the statutes of limitations of Tennessee,
upon the authority of two decided cases in the Supreme Court
of that State, in 1815. But in 1832, in the case of Green v.
Neal, 6 Peters, 291, it appearing that these decisions were made
under such circumstances that they were never considered, in
the State of Tennessee, as fully settling the construction of the
statutes; and that in 1825 the Court of Appeals, by a single
decision, had ruled the point differently, the Supreme Court
overruled its two former decisions, and adopted that of the State
court, as the last and authoritative.
In the case of Grove v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 449, the court
did not depart from this established rule. The State decision
relied on, as settling the construction of a provision in the Constitution of -Mississippi,was the decision of a divided court was extrajudicial, and contrary to the legislative construction
of the provision, and we will add especially, that it was made
after the date of the contract in controversy in that case, and impaired the obligation of the contract. In Groves and Slaughter,
the note in suit was dated December 20th, 1836, (15 Peters,
449,) and the State decision, relied on to invalidate the note,
*as that of Glidewell, &c. v. Hite and Fitzpatrick, not then reported; (see 15 Peters, 497,) but since reported in 5 Howard's
Mississippi Reports, 110, by which report, it appears that the
State decision was not made until December, 1840, four years
after the date of the, contract which it sought to impair. It was
therefore considered by the Supreme Court as an open, unsettled question, and so decided.
The same question, on the same clause of the Constitution
of Mississippi, afterwards, in 1847, came again before the Supreme Court, in Rowan v. Runnels, 5 Howard, 134. In the intermediate time, however, after the decision in Groves v. Slaughter, the question of construction had been decided by the highest
tribunal of the State, differently from the decision of the Supreme Court. Both Groves v. Slaughter, and Rowan v. Runnels, were cases arising upon contracts, identical as to subjectmatter; and the court felt an insurmountable difficulty in foIlowing a State decision, made subsequently to the date of the
contract between citizens of different States, and annulling it
retroactively; which contract, on full consideration, the Supreme
Court of the United States had pronounced valid, and they,
therefore, adhered to their first decision, Mr. Justice Daniel dissenting, however, even in the case of a contract.
See also to same effect, Sims v. Hundley, 6 Howard, 1.
The whole amount of these decisions is, that in cases arising
upon contract, where the Supreme Court, in the absence of any
State decision settling the construction of a provision in the
VOL. XV.

83

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of MfcDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et "al.

State constitution, in reference to the validity of the contract,
had decided in favor of its validity, they would not reverse that
decision, on the g round of an adjudication of the question contrariwise, by a State court, if that adjudication was made subsequently, not only to the first decision by the Federal court, but
subsequently to the very contract in issue, between parties who
were, by the Federal Constitution, entitled to an adjudication
on that contract, by the Federal courts.
If it had been a case iniiolving questions of title to real property, or the construction of local laws, irrespective of contract,
the court would, no doubt, have been governed by Green v.
'Neal, 6 Peters, 291, and have overruled its former decision in
Groves v. Slaughter. See Nesmith v. Sheldon, 7 How. 813.
To say nothing, I'owevek, of the distinction taken by the
court in this case of Rowan v. Runnels, it io very clear that the
decision is altogether inapplicable to the eas:e of the heirs at law
and the exEecutors of McDonogh.
In this case, the question depends on a will of real and personal property, as to which there has been no decision of the
Supreme Court; and in wills this court adopts the local law
bearing on the case. 7 How. 813, 814, .04; Patterson v.
Gaines, How.; Vidal v. Girard, 2 How. 128; Wheeler v. Alexandria, How.
The validity of the will is to be determined by a true construction of the written and unwritten law of Louisiana; and
the tribunal of the last resort in that State has decided in favor
of its validity. "Undoubtedly," said the Chief Justice, in Rowan
v. Runnels, "this court will always feel itsElf bound to respect
the decisions of the State courts; and from the time they axe
made, will regard them as conclusive, in all cases, upon the
construction of their own constitution and laws. But we ought
not.to give them a retroactive effect, and allow them to render
invalid contracts entered into with citizers of other. States,
which, in the judgment of this court, were wrongfully made.
These decisions, therefore, of the Supreme Court of the.United
States, denying the binding effect of subsequent State deckions,
so as to retroact on antecedeht contracts, are fully warranted by
the spirit, if not the letter, of that clause in -the Federal Constitution, which prohibits the States from passing "any law impairing the obligation of contracts."
For, if the sovereignty of the States is not competent to
legislate away the obligation of contracts lawfully entered into
at the time, it should equally follow thatthe State Courts cannot construe away the obligation of antecedent contracts, which
the Constitution meant to protect from every department of the
State governments, and to place under the protecting agis of
the federal judiciary.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

887

Executors ot McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

But when we come to consider the effect of a decision by the
State tribunals upon their local laws, involving any matter not
impairing the obligation of a contract, the case is one of a very
different character. It must, in that case, result from principle,
and the authoritative decisions of this court, that if the validity
of a Louisiana will is to be tested by'the laws of that State,
the exposition of those laws, by her highest judicial tribunal,
must be equally regarded a: part of -the local law of the State,
and, as such, binding on the federal courts, whether it be esta:blished by a single decision, or by a series of decisions, and
whether it involve title to real estate or personalty.
Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company v. Nesbit,
10 How. 401, recognizes the principle that this court can, in no
case, revise or annul retrospective State legislation, unless it
violates some clause of.the federal Constituti).,, or is in conflict
with the laws of the United States.
Has this court any greater jurisdiction ove the State judiciary, in expounding their own laws, than it would have over
the legislature which makes them?
But it may be objected that the true reason why this court
did not regard as conclusive a tubsequent State decision in the
cases of Groves v. Slaughter and Rowan v. Rimnels, and Sims
v. Hurdley, is not that they were cases of contracts, but because
such subsequent decisions would deprive citizens of other States
of the practical enjoyment of the privilege of suing in the federal
courts on titles already vested in them, and to sustain this position, a paragraph will be cited from the opinion of the Chief
Justice in Rowan v. Runnels, 5 Howard, 139.
But we respectfully submit that the State courts cannot be
deprived of their legitimate function, of expounding authoritatively and conclusiyely the meaning of their own State laws,
merely because, at the time of such exposition, there were parties it esse who had a right to sue, or who had sued in the federal courts upon titles already vested in thefn by virtue of the
State laws.
It would be monstrous if the federal courts, obtaining jurisdiction "rationze personarurn" alone, were to exercise that jurisdiction for the single purpose of prostrating and. annulling all
expositions of the State laws by the State courts, which had
been made after the right had attached to sue in the federal
courts.
It is not to be presumed that the State tribunal has so decided
from a motive to oppress or prejudice the plaintiffs in the federal courts; and, in the absence of. such a presumption, the
federal courts are as much bound in a case where their jurisdiction is acquired alone by the character of the parties, to re-

388

SUPREME COURT.
.Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Mdurdoch et al.

spect the local law, as expounded by local tribunals, "pendente
lite," or "post litem motam," as if it had been declared before
the right attached to sue in the federal courts. We submit,
with deference, that it is not a principle of "comity" only
which gives force to the local decisions; but it is because State
decisions, whenever made upon State laws, form part of those
laws, and, as such, are the governing rule of the United States
courts in every case dependent on State laws, except in the solitary instance of State decisions retroacting on antecedent contracts, and this principle appears to have been adopted by this
court, on full and deliberate consideration, in the case of Green
v. Neal, 6 Pet. 298.
The counsel for the appellees made the following points:
I. The first point to be settled is the true meaning of the will.
This depends altogether on the signification of the language
used by the testator, and on no peculiaritr of local law. The
rules of interpretation laid down by the civil code of Louisiana,
(acts of 1705 et seq.) correspond with those which guide judges
in the courts of common law. All aim, alke, at discerning the
intentions of the testator; and as McDonogh has used the English language in expressing those intentions, a reference to local
jurisprudence is entirely useless, and this court has accordingly
held, that it does not follow the construction of a State court
on a will or deed, as it does on the construction of a statute.
Lane v. Vick, 3 How. 464, 476; Russell v. Southard, 12 Id.
139.
We maintain the will of the testator to be a scheme devised
by him for perpetuating his succession, under the name of his
"general estate;" that the title to -his property was intended by
him to remain in his succession; that, under the cover of a bequest to the cities and States, he intended to shii.ld his property
from alienation; that the cities and States were not intended,
under any circumtances, to be his beneficiaries; and that, if
any title whatever, under the terms of the vll, was bequeathed
to the cities or States, it was a mere legal title as trustees, unaccompanied by any beneficial interest.
In support of this position, we rely on the plain language of
the instrment'itself. It is true' that the testator says that he
"gives, wills, mid bequeathes all the rest, residue, and remainder of his estate to the two cities;" but this clause begins by
stating, that he makes the bequest "for the more general diffusion of knowledge," &c., and closes by stating that the bequest
is "to and for the several interests and purposes hereinafter
mentioned, declared, and get forth concernirg the same," which
purposes he immediately proceeds to specify.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

389
-

By the analysis of the will, as already set forth, it will be
seen that, after this introductory clause containing the devise,
he provides,
1st. That his whole property, real and personal, "is to be converted into one mass, entitled his generalestate."
2d. That the seisin and possession of this "general estate"
is to be vested in commissioners and agents, -with perpetual suc-

cession, and the meaning of the word 41sii,1 is abundantly
shown by the Civil Code, 934, 935, 93G,1600, 1602, 1609, 1617,
1652, 1653; 2 Black. Corn. 311, marginal paging; Fowler et
al. v. Boyd, 15 L. R. 562.
3d. That these commissioners axe to obtain an act incorpo.
rating the "general estate2
4th. That they are to have the sole and exclusive management
and control of the "general estate2'
5. That "no part of said general estate, or revenues from
rents arising from said general estate, shall go into the hands
of the corporations of said cities, but that they, the said corporations; shall forever have a supervision over it."
6th. The testator further provides (p. 25) that "copies of
the accounts of the general estate fund shall be delivered to
the city councils of the city of New Orleans, who shall visit
the books, examine and audit the accounts, and keep up and
support a general supervision over the general estate, its accounts, funds, management, and real estate, as also over the free
schools," &c.
7th. After providing for the establishment of free schools to
educate the poor, the testator says, (p. 30,) "for this purpose,
and this only, my desire being that one dollar shall never be expended to 'any other purpose, I destine the whole of my general estate."
In view of these provisions, so clearly and emphatically detailed, it is impossible to discover any of the elements which
constitute title or ownership of property in the cities. The
mind is at a loss to conceive what-interest in an estate can appertain to parties who are never to have it in possession, never to
receive one dollar of its revenues, never to alienate it, and never,
even, to manage, administer, or control it. It is evident that
all that is bequeathed to the cities is the power of aplointing
the officers of this imaginary entity, this corporation that the testator intended to create, under the name of his "general estate,"
coupled with functions which are. precisely those attributed by
law to the visitors of corporations (see I Blackstone, 401); and
it is worthy of remark, that with this visitatorial agency Baltimore has nothing to do, beyond receiving annually certified
as *

390

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

copies of the accounts of the general estate, and "publishing
them in two of the newspapers of the city." Record, p. 25.
If there could be a doubt, under the te:ms of the will itself,
that the testator's intention was to vest the title to his property,
not in the cities, but in the general estate, that doubt would
vanish on the simple perusal of his own commentary on his
will, as contained in the memoranda before referred to. In
them he styles the general estate "an institution of vast importance to the State and the world," p. 35. He speaks of the
property as "belonging to the general estate," p. 36. He prays
the city councils of New Orleans to exempt from taxation "the
real estate belonging to said general estate," p. 36. He declares,
at pp. 40 and 41, that he has selected land. for investment, that
"it may yield an annual revenue for the purposes to which it is
destined forever-;" and expresses the hope that "its rents will
amount to some millions of dollars annually," and that it will
become in time "a huge mountain of wealth." At p. 43, he
speaks of two thousand lots "belonging to this estate, and
which ,vill be and remain the property of this estate at my
death;" and finally, at p. 5.5, he concludes that "the great object I have in view, as may plainly be seen, is the gradual
augmentation in value of the real estate which will belong to,
and be owned by, the general estate for cEnturies to come."
II. If, however, it should be held that the words of devise to
the cities vest a title in them, and that these words cannot be
controlled nor explained away by the subsequent declarations
of the testator, nor by the limitations which he himself has
placed on their meaning, the appellees maintain that the title
so vested is the legal estate alone, unconnected with the beneficial interest; that the cities are mere truistees; and that the
beneficiaries of the trust are the asylums, societies, school farm,
and free school provided for by the will.
The will contains, not what the civil law terms legacies to
pious uses; not what the commoa law terms a legacy to a
devisee, subject to 'a purpose; but it contains dispositions
termed in the civil law, fidei comniissa, and in the common law,
a devise for a purpose to a devisee, or a trust; and wills, precisely such in character as that before the court, have been the
subject of interpretation under both systems of jurisprudence.
1 Jarman on Wills, (Perkins,) 4.57, top 2d ed., 503 of 1st ed.,
and authorities in notes; Lewin on Trusts, 24 Law Library,
87, top paging; Vidal and others v. Girard's executors, 2 Howard, 127; Briggs v. Penny, 8 Eng. Law k Eq. Rep. 234-5;
Heirs of Henderson v. Rost, 5 Annual Rep. 458; Succession
Isaac Frainklin, decided in Louisiana, June 22, 1852, printed in
pamphlet; De Pontalba v. City of New Or]eans, 3 Annual Rep.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

391

Executors of !itcDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

660; Corporation of Gloucester v. Osborn, 1 II. of Lords, 285;
3 Hare, 136.
It is true that the will, in no part of it, uses the word "trust;"
but it is too familiar a principle to need authority, that the use
of this word is not essential to the constitution of a trust.
Girard uses this word; and his devise to the city of Philadelphia was admitted by all'to, be a trust, nor would the fact
have been controverted even if no such word had been found
in the will. The civil law is identical with the common law on
this point. Adams's Eq. 189 to 192, Am. ed. and cases cited in
tbe note; Briggs v. Penny, 8 English Law & Eq. 231-5; 2
Story's Eq. Juris. ยง 964-5, 1068, 1074; 1 Jarman on Wills,
334.
But, independently of these considerations, the whole of the
ancient civil law doctrine of destination to pious uses has been
repealed by an act of the legislature of Louisiana, of March 25,
1829, and the Civil Code contains the rules governing the case.
See Acts Assembly of Louisiana, 1828; Civil Code, art. 3521;
Handy v. Parkinson, 10 L. R. 92; Reynolds v. Swain, 13 L. R.
198.
III. The will of John AcDonogh is null, because it violates
the prohibition of the law of Louisiana against substitutions
andfidei commissa. Civil Code, art. 15, arts. 1607 et seq.
The devise of property, -with the prohibition against its alienation, when made with a view to a purpose, has been held to be
a fidei coinmissuzn by all authors who have written on the civil
law. A direction not to alienate, where the motive is the
benefit of the legatee himself, is a mere nudum prcceptum; as
where a legacy is left of an estate to Titus, who is prohibited
from disposing of it, in order that his improvidence may never
deprive him of the means of subsistence. But a prohibition
agaiwt alienating, in order that, in ten years, or at the death of
Titus, the estate may become the property of Caius, or may
be devoted to any purpose not personal to Titus, contains the
very esse ice of the technical fidei.commissum and substitution.
C. C. 15C7; Ricard. Traite des Substitutions, vol. 2, -p. 323;
Merlin, vol. 32, Verbo. Bis. p. 152; Pothier, Substitutions, No.
584, vol. 6, p. 517, ed. of 1777, in Cong. Library; Toullier, voL
6, No. 488 t 2 Strahan's Domat, 3861; Hermosilla, Gloss. 5,
Part 5, Tit. 5, Law 44; 2 Gregorio Lopez; 781.
The fitei iornmissum of the civil law is not, as we concede,
identical with the trust of the common law. The former, under
the simple jurisprudence of the Romans, was a direction to the
legatee to convey the property itself, or a pdirt of it, in full
ownership to the intended beneficiary; whereas the latter is a
refinement, byr which the perfect ownership is'decomposed into

392

SUPREME

COURT.

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

its constituent elements of legal title. and beneficial interest,
which are vested in different persons. But the term "fidei
commissur" is constantly translated into the word "trust" by
writers of authority under both systems, and it has been held
in Louisiana, in a series of -djudic'ted cases, that the trust of
the English law is embraced in the prohibition of the fidei comgnissuin under the 1507th article of the code. For definition of
the fidei commissur, see 2 Strahan's Doma:, 3823; 3 Marcade,
375; 8 Duranton, 56; 32 Mlerlin Rep. Verbo Substitution; 5
Toullier, 18; 5 Zacharim, 240;- 14 Pothiers Pand. 186; Dig.
Lib. 36, Tit. 1; Partidas VL tit. 5, 1. 1, 14; Antonio Gomez,
Varie Resolutiones, vol. 1, cap. 5; 2 Burg , Conflict of Laws,
100; Gaines v. Chew, 2 Howard, 650; Clague v. Clague, 13
L. R. 1; Tournoir v. Tournoir, 12 L. R. 19. And the proposition that wills containing the technical fidei cornmissum
of the Roman law, or the trust of the English law, are utterly
null and void in Louisiana; and that the latter estate is one
unknown to its law, and abhorrent to its people and their institutions, is abundantly established by the following decisions:
Tournoir v. Tournoir, 12 L. R. 19; Clague v. Clague, 13 L. R. 1;
Liautaud v. Baptiste, 3 Rob. Rep. 453; Harper v. Stanbrough,
2 Annual, 381; Tirrell et al. v. Allen, 7 Annual; Ducloslange
v. Ross, 3 Aninual, 432; Beaulieu v. Ternoir, 5 Annual, 480;
Heirs of Henderson v. Rost, 5 Annual, 458; Alacarty v. Tio, 6
Annual; Franklin case above cited; C. C. 487, et seq.
The principle that parties are not at liberty to invest new
tenures of property and to impress such tenures on their lands,
is one not peculiar to Louisiana, but is a part of the public
policy of every country. Kipper v. Bailey, 8 Eng. Ch. Rep. 120.
And the decisions of the French courts, as well as the opinions
of French jurists on the subject of fidei commissa and substitutions, are of no weight or value in Louisiana, by reason of the
difference of the legislation of the two countries on the subject.
Rowlett v. Shepherd, 4 La. Rep. 86; Ducloslange v. Ross, 3
Annual Rep. 432.
IV. There is nothing in the law of Louisiana making any
exception to this general rule. The article 1536 of the Civil
Code, cannot, without violent misconstruction, be applied in
any manner to this subject-matter. The Code contains a title
called Title 2 of Donations inter vivos and imortis causa. It is
divided into seven chapters, of which the fr:st four are applicable to both classes of donations, and the prohibition in article
1507 against fidei commissa is in the chapter 4 entitled " Of
dispositions repobated by law in donations intervivos and mor.
tis causaY" After exhausting, in these four chapters, such provisions as are applicable to both classes of donations, the Code

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Executors 'f McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

proceeds, in chapter 5, to treat separately of donations inter.vivos,
and in chapter 6 of donations mortis causa, placing in each of
these chapters the snecial rules appropriated to its particular
subject-matter.
Now chapter five embraces articles 1510 to 1562, and consequently includes the article 1536. Chapter five is divided into
three sections, of which the second treats of the form of donations inter viz'os. In prescribing this form the Code requires an
authentic act to be passed before a notary, a delivery by the
donor, and (in article 1527) an acceptance in precise terms by
the donee. It then proceeds to provide for this acceptance by
incapable parties. Article 1532 provides for a married woman;
her acceptance must be with consent of her husband. Article
1533 provides that the acceptance for a minor may be by his
tutor; 1534, that of an insane person by his curator; 1535,
that of a deaf and dumb person by himself or attorney, or curator; 1536, "donations made for the benefit of an hospital, of
the poor of a community, or of establishments of public utility
shall be accepted by the administrators of such communities or
establishments."
It is too plain for argument, on examination of the context of
the Code, that this article 1536 has not the remotest bearing on
the article 1507, and has not any reference whatever to the
same subject-matter. So far from there being any exception in
the Code authorizing corporations to become trustees, there is a
positive prohibition pointed directly at corporations. See La.
Code, article 432.
But there is another conclusive reason why the law can contain no exception in favor of the cities. The prohibition of
trust estates in Louisiana is not alone a legal, it is also a constitutional, prohibition. Constituti6n of 1812, article 4, sec. 11;
Constitution of 1845, article 120; Opinion of Chief Justice
Eustis, in the Franklin case.
To construe article 1536 as conferring a power on cities to
take estates in trust, is to violate the principle that when a
capacity is granted by law to a corporation, the clause conferring it is to be construed subordinately to the general law, and
not as giving powers beyond those conferred on individuals.
McCartee v. Orphan Asylum, 9 Cowen, 437, 507. Jackson v.
Hartwell, 8 Johns. 425.
This clause, if it confers the power supposed, must be subjected to the most rigid construction, and can never b.e made to
comprehend such a trust as McDonogh has devised. In New
York, from motives of public policy similar to those prevailing
in Louisiana, the creation of trusts has been greatly restricted
by statute. 2 Revised Statutes, p. 136.

394

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

The strictness with which this policy is enforced by her courts,
and the rigor with which trusts contraven~mg its spirit are annulled, may be seen in the cases of Jarvis v. Babcock, 5 Barb.
139; McSorley v. Wilson, 4 Sandf, Ch. Rep. 523.
V. The will of John McDonogh violates the law of Louisiana in separating the usufruct from the naked property of his
estate forever. The nature of these two titles is explained in
articles 479, 486, and 525 et seq. The law authorizes the
separation of the usufruct from the ownership for one life only.
Civil Code, 601, 1509.
But where the usufructuary is a corporation which is deemed
perpetual, the right is expressly limited to thirty years. C. C.
607.
It is true that where a gift of perpetual usufruct is made, it is
frequently construed into a gift of the property itself, on the
ground that giving to a person the perpetual enjoyment of property is only a mode of expressing the gift of the title or ownership. See Ainauld v. Delachaise, 4 Annual Rep. 119; 2 Prudhon, 6-9.
But this is a mere rule of construction, subject to be controlled by the testator's expression of a contrary intention. The
language of the will, as already set forth, expresses so clearly
the intention of the testator not to give the property itself, but
to place the title forever in abeyance, 'and Io preserve the property as "his general estate," that comment on it is unnecessary.
The language used by the present Chief Justice of Louisiana,
with reference to the will of Henderson, is equally applicable to
that now under discussion " There is not a word in the will
that takes the ownership out of his succession; but that, if carried into effect, it takes it out of commerce is indisputable."
He expressly prders, "it is to remain forever as a part of my
succession."- The executors might lease, but; they could not selL
Henderson v. Rost, 5 Annual, 458.
VI. The will of MIefIonogh is in direct violation of the law
6f Louisiana, which prohibits perpetuities, and the placing of
property out of commerce. Marthurin v. Livaudais, 5 Martins,
N. S 302; Cole v. Cole,- 7 Martins, N. S. 416; Arnauld v.
Tarbe, 4 La. Rep. 502; heirs of Henderson v. Rost, 5 Annual,
458; Franklin case, above cited.
And so strong is the determination of the Legislature to, prevent property from being withdrawn from commere, that it has
expressly abrogated the former civil law, and the special article
of the code of 1808, which prohibited the alienation of things
holy, sacred, and religious. Code of 1808, pp. 95 and 96; 1
Strhan's Domat, ยง 129, 1435; Civil Code, 447. The will also
violates the provision of the"law which pohibits the' testator

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

395

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

from ordering that property shall never be divided. C. C. Art.
1222-3.
And, although under the terms of the law, such a prohibition
is considered as not made, yet where the property is not given
in ownership to the devisee, and the prohibition is inserted, with
a view to carry out an entire scheme, created by the will, and
which must fail if the prohibition be not enforced, then to allow
the partition of the property between the devisees for their own
use, becomes not an interpretation: of the will, but a perversion
of the whole design of the testator, and the making of a new
will for him. Henderson v. Rost, above cited. See also Hawley v. James, 16 Wendell, 144, 180.
This consideration also disposes of the question raised specially in behalf of the Orphan Asylum. The annuity is inseparably connected with the trust, and must fall with it; there is
no possibility of upholding it when the trust on which it depends
is overthrown. It is to be paid from rents and profits which
will never accrue. Coster v. Lorillard, 14 Wendell, 265, same
case, 5 Paige, Ch. Rep. 172; Hawley v. James, 16 Wendell,
180.
VIL The beneficiary legatees of MclDonogh, the asylum, the
school farm, the free schools, are not in existence, nor is even
the board of commissioners of his general estate, as a legal corporation, capable of holding property in succession.
They are intended by the testator to be corporations with perpetual succession, he has so declared in his will, and he has
attempted to organize them as what he calls "institutions"
The power of creating corporations is a sovereign power,
which no individual can usurp. In Louisiana the legislature
itself could not incorporate the institutions provided for by this
will. Constitution of 1845, Arts. 123, 124.
These articles prohibit the creation of any corporations by
special charter, except political and municipal corporations, and
provide that no corporation thereafter to be created, "shall ever
endure for a longer period than twenty-five years."
The legislature, by act of 30th April, 1847, in obedience to
these articles, passed a general law for the organizbtion of such
corporations as AIcDonogh desires to establish by his will,
restricting their 1iossession of property to a value of $300,000.
Digest Louisiana Statutes, p. 181.
The whole scheme'of lMcDonogh's will is in direct violation
of the policy of Louisiana, as established by the constitution
and this law, and is null and void for this reason.
Before the adoption of these articles of the Constitution,
when the legislature granted special acts of incorporation to
religious and charitable societies, its policy was equally marked

896

-

SUPREME COURT.

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

by restricting their possession of property and right to receive
donations within narrow limits, and confining their duration
to a term of years. Bullard and Curry's Digest, p. 343, Nos.

214, 221, p. 353, No. 241, p. 364, No. 248. First Congregational
Church v. Henderson, .4 Rob. R. 215, where it appears that the
church was prohibited from receiving from any single person by
donation or legacy more than one thousand dollars.
It has long ago been held by this court, that a legacy to an
association, not incorporated, could not be taken by it as a society, nor by the individuals who composed the association at
the death of the testator. Baptist Association v. Hart, 4
Wheaton, 1. And the law of England on this point is well
settled; Grant on Corporations, 115, 572.
The statute law of Louisiana is in ccnformity with these
principles, and requires, for the validity of a legacy, two conditions: 1st. The existence of the legatee at the death of the tes.
tator; 2d. The capacity of the legatee to receive at the time, if
the legacy be absolute; or if conditional; the capacity at the
time of the fulfilment of the condition. Civil Code, 1469, 1460,
1459.
These provisions of the civil law are established with great
clearness by the highest authorities. 5 Toullier, 99, No. 91-2;
Pothier Donations Testamentaires, p. 361; Pothier, Obligations,
Nos. 203, 208, 222; 2 Strahan's Domat, 351.8, 3038; 3 acade,
430; 5 Zacharia, 23; 8 Duranton, No. 221; Coin Delisle, 96,
No. 4.
And although the French code, which forms the basis of that
of Louisiana, admits of exception, in cases of marriage contracts,
to the rule requiring the existence of the onee at the date of
the gift, the Louisiana code expressly forbids this exception, and
repeats the prohibition. Code Napoleon, 906, 725; Civil Code,
947, 948, 1727.
It is true that, in one case in Louisiana, the court held a legacy valid to corporations not in existence.
lilne's heirs -v.
Milne's executors, 17 La. Rep. 46.
But that case stands alone in the reports, and on the very
face of the decision is self-contradictory. It is not the law of
the land.
But even admitting its correetness, it waS decided on the express ground that the corporations had bean created by act of
e legislature, immediately after the decease of the testator,
and.where this. action of the legislature has been refused, it has
since been held that the devise must fail. Heirs of Henderson
v. Rost, 5 Annua 458, opinion of Preston, J.
Now in the case before the court, not only has the Legislature
of Louisiana, no constitutional power to creae the corporations in

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

397

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

question, but both the States of Louisiana and Maryland have
declared their disapproval of the schemrfe of the will and denounced it as null and void, and contrary to public policy.
Record, p. 67,129; Act of Legislature of Louisiana, 12th March,
1852, p. 132; Resolution at Legislature of Louisiana, 12th
March, 1852, p. 136.
The corporations contemplated by McDonogh are, therefore,
not only without present existence, but without any probability
of future existence, and the property conveyed to them must of
necessity fall to the heirs at law.
A case infinitely stronger in favor of the validity of a devise,
was decided by the Supreme Court of the Hanseatic cities in
favor of the heirs at law. It was the case of a legacy to the
city of Frankfort, of a sum of money destined to the establishment of a museum of painting, for the direction and administration of which a society was to be created according to law, and
as soon as it was incorporated, the society was to become the
owner of the legacy, on condition of applying it to the use prescribed by the testator.
The decision of the court was, that the city could not keep
the legacy without violating the intention of the testator; and
that the pociety could not take it, because it had no legal existence at the date of the testator's death. The legacy was therefore annulled in favor of the legal heirs. Roshirt, Ueber den
Standelschen Erbfolge, 1828; Muhlenbruck, Beurtheilung des
Stadelschen Beerbungsfalles.
And if the dispositions of Mcfonogh's will be indeed as we
maintain in fav-- of corporations not yet in existence, and therefore incap~able of taking, the Code of Louisiana provides that
they shall be null, notwithstanding the interposition of the
names of the cities, which is a mere device of the testator to
shield them from the law.
"Every disposition in favor of a person incapable of receiving
shall be null, whether disguised under the form of an onerous contract or made under the name of a person interposed." C. C.
1478.
VIII. The schools which the testator requires to be esta.
blished in Louisiana are in contravention of the policy of the
State, as established by its constitution and laws.
The will requires that the benefit of the schools shall be confined to the poor, as a class. The constitution and laws of Louisiana require that free schools shall be established and kept under
the supervision of public officers, where all white children alike,
the rich and poor, may be educated by the same teachers, and
on terms of equality.
Free schools confined to the poor alone give rise to distincVOL. XV.

34

398

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of' McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

tion of classes in the community, are antirepublican in tendency, and conflict with the policy of the State. Constitution
of La. articles 133-4; Acts of Legislature of La. 1841, Digest,
p. 239; Acts of Legislature of La. 1847, Digest Laws of La.
228 et seq.
And free s6hools in which poor white and colored children
are to be received indiscriminately, and placed on an equality,
would be intolerable in States where rlavery is recognized as a
egal institution.
IX. If it be held that the city of New Orleans can take the
trust estate bequeathed to it, the executors must be ordered to
account to complainants for the half which is devised to the
city of Baltimore.
The trust in favor of that city is to be there executed under
the laws of Maryland. By that law the trust in question is
void. It cannot be there executed, because the object is not
definite.
"Whenever the word poor or poorest has *been used as a term
of description in a devise or bequest, it has been held to be insufficient for uncertainty." Dashiell v. The Attorney-General,
Harris & Johns. 399.
The devise to the school farm in McDoncgh's will is "for the
express and sole purpose of establishing a school farm on an
extensive scale for the destitute and the poorest of the poor male
children, &c." Record, p. 18. And "for rescuing from vice and
ignominy millions upon millions of the destitute youth, &c."
Page 22.
The general devise is "for the establishment and support of
free schools wherein the poor, and the poor only, of both sexes,
of all classes and castes.of color, shall have admittance, free of
expense." Page 14. Schools for "the poorer classes, for whom
these institutions are alone intended," (page 27,) "where every
poor child and youth, of every color, may receive a common
English education." Page 29.
Such trusts are incapable of execution, according to the concurrent decisions of the highest courts of Maryland. Trippe v.
Ffazier, 4 Harris & Johnson, 446; Dashiel]. v. Attorney-General, 5 Id. 398; Dashiell v. Attorney-General, 6 Id. 1; Tolson v.
Tolson, 10 Gill & Johns. 159; Meade et al. v. Beale & Latmer,
executors of Ford, decided by Chief Justice Taney, in U. S. C.
C., November term, 1850.
These decisions are in strict pursuance of those of the English
courts, in cases quite as strongly appealing to good feeling as
any of those termed charitable. Ram on Legal Judgment, ch.
19, ยง 2, in 9th vol. Law Library, and cases there cited.
And this court has more than once determined, "that the

DECE31B-ER TERM, 1853.

899

Executors of MefDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

common law of each State must be ascertained by its general
policy, the usages sanctioned by its courts, and its statutes;
and there is no object of judicial action which requires the exercise of this discrimination more than the administration of
charities." Wheeler v.Smith, 9 How. 78; Baptist Association
v. Hart, 4 Wheaton, 27; Inglis v. Sailors' Snug Harbor, 3 Peters,
112; Vidal v. Girard's Executors, 2 Howard, 129.
And if the trust is incapable of execution in Maryland,
though valid in Louisiana, the property falls to the legal heirs.
Hawley v. James, 7 Paige, Ch.Rep. 213; S.C.5 Paige, Ch.Rep.
323, 441; S. C. 16 Wendell, 61.
So in England it has been held that where a trust was created
in personal property abroad, to be invested in lands in England,
contrary to the policy of her mortmain laws, the devise is void.
Attorney-General v.Mills, 3 Russell, R. 328.
The right of Baltimore to accept such a trust is a question
of personal capacity, to be governed by the law of the domicil,
according to principles of law universally admitted. Story's
Conflict, ยง 51, 65, 446.
X. The residuary devises to the Stases of Louisiana and
Maryland are the same in their nature and character as those
to the cities of New Orleans and Baltimore. They are trusts
CC
That the legislatures of those States, respectively, may carry
my intentions, as expressed in this my last will and testament,
into effect, as far and in the manner which will appear to them
most proper" (p. 29) ; and this trust is followed by the reiteration of his purpose in the strofigest terms he could discoverยฐ
" For*this purpose, and this only, my desire being that one dollar
shall never be expended to any other purpose, I destine the
whole of my general estate to form a fund in real estate, which
shall never be alienated, but be held and remain forever sacred
to it alone."
The qualification in the devise to the States merely gives a
discretionary power as to the mode of execution of the purpose;
it enables them to dispense with such of the machinery of administration of the trust as they might find cumbersome or ill
adapted to the object in view, but it is subordinate to the chief
illegal conditions of the scheme, and does not admit of its fractional observance. It gives a latitude as to the administration
and machinery of the purposes subject to the proviso that these
purposes are to be observed, viz. 1st, the education of the poor
of the two cities in preference to all others; and, 2d, that this
be done by the revenues of a fund formed of inalienable real
estate. Morrice v. Bishop of Durham, 9 Vesey, 399; Briggs v.
Penny, 8 Eng. Law and Eq. 234- 5; Morrice v. Bishop of Duiham, 10 Vesey, 521; Story's Eq. Juris, ยง 979, a. b.; Wheeler v.
Smith; 9 Howard, 55; Adams's Eq. 134, Am.ed.

StIPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees are the heirs at law of John McDonogh, a
native of the State of Maryland, who died at McDonogh, near
New Orleans, in the State of Louisiana, i.i 1850, leaving there
a very large succession. In 1839, the decedent executed, at
New Orleans, an olographie will for the disposal of the estate
he might have at his death. This will is in a legal form, and has
been admitted to probate in the District Court of New Orleans.
It dontains two particular legacies which axe not contested, and
a single legacy under a universal title. In this bequest the testator declares, "that for the more general diffusion of knowledge,
and consequent well being of mankind," and "being convinced
that he could make no disposition of those goods which the
Most High had placed under his stewardship, as by means of
which the poor will be instructed in wisdom and led into the
path of holiness," "he gives, -wills, and bequeathes all the rest,
residue, and remainder of his estate, real and personal, present
and future, as well that which was then h is as that which he
might acquire at any time before his dea:th, and of which he
might die possessed, (subject to certain annuities,) to the corporations of the cities of New Orleafis and Baltimore forever,
one half to each," "to and for the several intents and purposes
thereafter declared2' The testator directs his executors to convert his personal estate into real property, whereby "the whole
of his estqte will become a permanent funid in real estate,
affording rents, no part of which shall ever be touched, divided,
sold, or alienated, but shall forever remain together as one
estate, and be managed" as he shall order.
For the management of this estate, thus declared to be inalienable, he directs the two cities each to select, annually,
three agents, whose duty it should be to receive seisin and
possession of the estate frdrm his executors, immediately after
his death. They are "to lease or rent the lots," "cultivate the
plantations," "collect the rents," "pay the annuities," "invest
the moneys," and, "in fine, do all acts necessary to its full and
perfect management, according to the will;" the will of the
testator being "that no part of the general estate, or revenue
from rents arising from said general estate, shall go into the
hands of the corporate authorities of the said cities, but that the
said authorities should have forever the supervision of it."
The testator designed the joint management of the agents of
the cities, and the joint supervision of their authorities over the
estate, to be perpetual. He forbids the cities to vary, by agreement, or by any compromise, the relations he has established
between them in regard to it. They must make no sale of their
interests; no traffic with their powers of control; no surrender,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

401

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

for money or other consideration, of their supervisory care. But
should they combine to violate his scheme of management or
appropriation, their rights are declared forfeited, and "the general estate" is limited over to the States of Louisiana and
Maryland, "for the purpose of educating the poor of those
States," "under such a general system of education as their
legislatures should appoint." He further provides, that should
there be "a lapse of the legacies from the failure of the legatees
to accept, or any other cause or means whatsoever," the shares
should inure for the benefit of the State or States in which the
cities are situate; "that the legislatures of those States respectively may carry his intentions, as expressed and set forth in the
will, into effect, as far and in the manner -which will appear to
them most proper."
The testator having provided for the perpetuity of the McDonogh estate, and the destination of its revenues, proceeds to
develop a minute and detailed scheme for its management,
improvement, and the expenditure of its income. He appropriates one eighth part of'its annual revenue, for forty years, for
colonizing the free people of color, to the American Colonization
Society., the sum not to exceed $25,000 per annum; one eighth
part for the erection, in New Orleans, of an asylum for the poor
of all ages, castes, and colors; one eighth part to an incorporated
society for the relief of orphan boys in New Orleans; and one
eighth part for the establishment of a school farm in Maryland.
The money appropriated to the asylum, school farm, and orphan
boys, he requihes to be invested as capital in real estate, and the
rents only to be subject to the uses of the donees. The capital
of the asylum and school farm is to be entirely collected, before
any appropriation takes place for their use; and for the one the
capital is to be $3,000,000, and for the other $600,000. The
remaining four eighths of the inedme of the general estate, for
the present, and the whole, after- the objects above mentioned
are fulfilled, are destined "for the education of the poor, without the cost of a cent to them, in the cities of New Orleans and
Baltimore, and their respective suburbs, in such a manner that
every poor child and youth, of every color, in those places, may
receive a common English education -based, however, be it
particularly understood, on. a moral and religious one;" the
whole of the general estate "to form a fund in real estate which
shall never be sold or alienated, but be held and remain forever
sacred."
To carry his purposes into effect, he directs the selection of
boards of managers for the different establishments, and suggests
that acts of incorporation may become necessary to facilitate
their operations.

SUPREME COURT.
Exacutors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

The appellees claim that, as to the property embraced in this
bequest to the cities, that John McDonogh died intestate.
Their argument is, that although he makes in the commencement of his will a formal gift to, the cities; although the cities
are designated as his legatees in several clauses of the will, in
precise terms; although the property is described as property
"willed and bequeathed to the cities," that the testator has
sedulously contrived to withdraw from them the seisin and possession of the whole estate, and has committed them to an uncertain and fluctuating board, for the selection of which he has
provided; that the dominion and use of tais property, in so far
as he has permitted either, has been confided to this board of
managers, but that this board i held servilely to a code of
regulations he has dictated, the aim of which is to hold the
"MeDonogh estate" together iix perpetuity; that by these restrictive regulations the donations to the cities have become
nugatory and unavailing. This conclusion was adopted by the Circuit Court, whose
decree is under revisal, and has been sustained in the argument
at the bar of this court with great power and ability.
We may remark of the will of the testator, that it indicates
his imagination.to have become greatly disturbed by a long and
earnest contemplation of plans which he says "had actuated
and filled his soul from early boyhood with a desire to acquire a
fortune, and which then occupied his whole soul, desires, and
affections." In the effort to accomplish tiiese cherished hopes
he has overstepped the limits which the laws have imposed
upon the'powers of ownership, overlooked the practical difficulties which surround the execution of complex arrangements for
the administration of property, greatly exaggerated the value of
his estate; and unfolded plans far beyond its resources to effect;
and' has forgotten that false calculations, mismanagement, or
unfaithfulness might occur to postpone or prevent their attainment. Holding and declaring a firm faith in the interposition
of Providence to render his enterprise successful, he apparently
abandons himself, without apprehension or misgiving, to the
contemplation of the "McDonoh estate," as existing through
all time, without any waste or alienation, but improving and
enlarging, "extending the blessings of education to the poor
through every city, town, and hamlet " of the State where he
was born, and the State in which he had lived and was to die;

"rescuing from ignorance and idleness, vice and ignominy,
millions upon millions of the destitute you-th of- the cities," and
b serving to bind communities and States in the bonds of
brotherly love and affection forever."
The exaggeration which is apparent in th-,scheme he projects,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

403

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

and the ideas he expresses concerning it, afford the ground of
the argument for the appellees. It is, however, unfair to look
to the parts of the will which relate to the disorders which reign
in society, or to his aspirations to furnish a relief for these," during all time," or to the prophetic visions awakened by the exalted and exciting ideas which dictated the conditions of the
will, for the rule of its interpretation. We must look to the
conveyances he has made in the instrument, the objects they
are flted to accomplish, and the agencies, if any, to be employed, and endeavor to frame these into a consistent and harmonious plan, accordant with his leading and controlling intentions. In reference to his controlling purpose there can be no
mistake. He says, "that the first, principal, and chief object"
in his view is "the education of the poor" of the two cities.
With equal emphasis and precision he has disclaimed the desire
of building the fortunes of his natural relations. He says, "that
even to his children, if he had them, (as he has not,) and a fortune to leave behind him, he would, besides a virtuous education, to effect which nothing should be spared, bequeathe to each
but a very small amount, merely to excite them to habits of industry and frugality, and no more."
His ruling purpose had no connection -with the poor of any
one generation. His desire was to establish a foundation to
exist for all time - a perpetuity.
He knew that to attain this purpose a succession of persons,
animated with a corresponding aim, must be obtained, and that
the legal capacities of voluntary associations, even if he could
hope to find such to enter into his plans, were wholly unfitted
for his design; nor did he hope to effectually combine such
persons by any power or prayer of his own. Hence, he selected
as his devisees bodies corporate, endowed with the faculties of
acquiring and holding property, having determinate ends and
abiding agencies to be employed in accomplishing them. These
were ail requisite for the full attainment of the purposes he has
declared.
He excludes, it is true, the municipal authorities from the
particular management of the estate, or the application of its
revenues.
But, the municipal officers are not his legatees. They are
themselves but agents clothed with a temporary authority; nor
do the officers perform their executive duties, except by the interposition of agents subordinate to their control and subject to
their supervision. Had the testator confined himself to an unconditional donation of the general estate to the cities, for the
use of public schools, it would scarcely have fallen under the
personal management of the corporate authorities. They would

404

SUPREME

COURT.

Executors of MeDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

probably have appointed boards or agencies, to whom powers,
more or less general, would have been confided, and over whose
conduct their supervision would have been more or less particular and exact. The knowledge of this probably induced the
testator to describe the board which his experience and observation had marked as the most efficient and responsible. He defines their number, the manner of their appointment, the form
of their accounts, the modes qf their business, and urgently
exacts that the great, and to his eyes sa.red, interests of his
charity should not be blended with the vulgar and debauching
concerns of daily corporate management. These directions
must be regarded as subsidiary to the general objects of his will,
and whether legal and practicable, or otherwise, can exert no
influence over the question of its validity. Nor do we esteem
the facts, that he has given his estate a name, regards it as a
distinct entity, and couples with it language denoting perpetuity, important as evidence that the cities are not his legatees. A gift to a municipal corporation tends to create a perpetuity. Property thus held ceases to be the subject of donation,
or of devise, of transfer by bankruptcy, or in the order of succession. The property of such a corporation is rarely the subject of sale, andpractically it is out of cormmerce. MlcDonogh
supposed that he could prohibit any alienation or division. We
do not perceive, therefore, why he should have sought an incorporation of the general estate; nor do we understand that this
forms a prominent portion of his scheme.
The will, through every part, discloses that the cities are the
particular objects of his interest; and the poor of the cities of
his providence and bounty. His will designates the cities, by
their corporate name, as his legatees, in definite and legal language. His plan of administration is to be executed through
agents, selected by their corporate authorities, and to the end of
conveying to the poor of the cities, perpetually, the fruits of his
property. We should violate authoritative rules of legal interpretation, were we to disinherit the cities under these circumstances, and to substitute for them "an ideal being" called the
"general estate," having no legal capacity, aor juridical character, and whose recognition, therefore, could have no result but
to overturn the will of the testator. C. C. 1706; 1 Spence, Eq.
J. 529, 530; 5 Ann. R. 557.
Having thus determined that the legacy is to the cities by a
universal title, and, having extracted from the will the leading
and controlling intention of the testator, ;he next inquiry is,
whether a legacy given for such objects is valid.
The Roman jurisprudence, upon which that of Louisiana is
founded, seems originally to have denied to cities a capacity to

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

405

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

inherit, or even to take by donation or legacy. They were
treated as composed of uncertain persons, who could not perform the acts of volition and personalty involved in the accept.
ance of a succession. The disability was removed by the Emperor Adrian in regard to donations and legacies, and soon
legacies ad ornatum civitatis and ad honorem civitatis became
frequent. Legacies for the relief of the poor, aged, and helpless, and for the education of children, were ranked of the latter
class. This capacity was enlarged by the Christian emperors,
and after the time of Justinian there was no impediment. Donations for charitable uses were then favored; and this favorable legislation was diffused over Europe by the canon law, so
that it became the common law of Christendom. When the
power of the clergy began to arouse the jealousy of the temporal authority, and it became a policy to check their influence
and wealth -they being, for the'most part, the managers of
property thus appropriated- limitations, upon the capacity of
donors to make such gifts, were first imposed. These commenced in England in the time of Henry III.; but the learned
authors of the history of the corporations of that realm affirm,
that cities -were not included - in them " perhaps upon the
ground, that the grants were for the public good ;" and, although
"the same effect was produced by the grant in perpetuity to
the inhabitants," "the same practical inconvenience did not
arise for it, nor was it at the time considered a mortmain."
Mereweth. & Steph. Hist. Corp. 489, 702.
A century later, there was a direct inhibition upon grants to
cities, boroughs, and others, which have a perpetual commonalty, and others "which have offices perpetual," and, therefore,
"be as perpetual as people of religion." The English statutes
of mortmain forfeit to the king or superior lord the estates
granted, which right is to be exerted by entry; a license, there.
fore, from the king severs the forfeiture. The legal history of
the Continent on this subject does not materially vary from that
of England. The same alternations of favor, encouragement,
jealousy, restraint, and prohibition, are discernible. The Code
Napoleon, maintaining the spirit of the ordinances of the monarchy, in 1731, 1749, 1762, provides "that donitions, during
life or by will, for the benefit of hospitals of the poor of a commune, or of establishments of public utility, shall not take effect
except so far as they shall be authorized by an ordinance of the
government."
The learned Savigny, 'writing for Germany, says: "If modem legislation, for reasons of policy or political economy, have
restrained conveyances in mortmain, that those restrictions
formed no part of the common law." The laws of Spain

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

contain no material change of the Roman and ecclesiastical
laws upon this subject. The Beports of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana (in which State these laws were long in force) attest
their favor to such donations. De Pontalba v. New Orleans, 3
Ann. 660.
This legislation of Europe was directed to check the wealth
and influence of juridical persons who had existed for centuries
there, some of whom had outlived the necessities which had led
to their organization and endowment. Political reasons entered
largely into the motives for this legislation -reasons which
never have extended their influence to this continent, and, consequently, it has not been introduced into our systems of jurisrWhicker v. Hume, 14
prudence. 2 Kent's Com. 282, 283;
Beav. 509.
The precise result of the legislation is, that corporations
there, with the capacity of acquiring property, must derive their
capacity from the sovereign authority, and the practice is, to
limit that general capacity within narrow limits, or to subject
each acquisition to the revisal of the sovereign. We have examined the legislation of the European states, so as better to
appreciate that of Louisiana. No corporation can exist in
Louisiana, have a public character, appear in courts of justice,
exercise rights as a political body, except by legislative authority; and each may be dissolved, when deemed necessary or cnvenient to the public interest. Corporations created by law are
permitted to possess an estate, receive donations and legacies,
make valid obligations and contracts, and manage their own
business. Civil Code, tit. 10, c. 1, 2, 3, art. 418, et seq.
The privileges which thus belong to corporations legally existing, have been granted to the inhabitants of New Orleans in
various legislative acts. The authorities of the city have, be.
sides, received powers of government extending to all subjects
affecting their order, tranquillity, and imprcvement. It is agreed,
that these powers are limited to the objects for which they are
granted, and cannot be employed for ends foreign to the corporation. 1 Paige, 214; 15 New H. 317; 4 S. & S. C. R. 166;
3 Ann. 294.
But there can be no question as to the degree of appreciation
in which the subject of education is held in Louisiana. The
constitution of the State imposes upon the legislature the duty
of providing public schools for gratuitous education; and various acts attest the zeal of that department in performing that
public duty. Among these, there is one which authorizes and
requires the corporate authorities of the city of New Orleans to
establish them in that city, and to enact ordinances for their
organization, government, and discipline; they are likewise

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

407

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

charged with the instruction, education, and reformation of
juvenile delinquents and vagrants. These acts are from a sovereign authority, and endue the city with the powers of acquiring, retaining, and disposing of property, without limitation as to
value, and assign to it, as one of its municipal functions, the
charge of popular education. No parliamentary grant or royal
license in Great Britain- no government ordinance in France
could remove more effectually a disability, if one existed, or
create a capacity, if one were wanting, to the corporations of
those countries, Rev. Stat. La. 41, 111, 116, 117, 144, 239; 2
Rob. 244, 491.
We shall now examine the devise to the cities, in connection
with the various conditions annexed to it. The appellees insist
it is a disposition reprobated by law, for that it contains "substitutions and ftdei comi'issa," which are prohibited by article
1507 of the code, and which annul the donation in which they
are found.
We sha.L not inquire whether the prohibition extends to donations in favor of corporations, and for objects of public utility,
though this seems to have been a question in France. Lefeb.
des Don. Pieuses, 31, 33.
We shall limit the inquiry to the nature of the grohibited
estates, to determine whether they exist in this legacy. The
terms are of Roman origin, and were applied to modes of donation by will, common during its empire, and from thence were
transferred to the derivati-ve -ystems of law in use upon the
continent of Europe. The substitute was a person appointed
by the testator to take the inheritance, in case of the incapacity
or refusal of the instituted heir. Apaterfamiliaswas authorized to make the will of his son during his nonage, or ]unacy,
or other incapacity to perform the act; and in the case of his
death, under such circumstances, the appointee took the succession. This was a mode of substitution.
The ftdei commissum originated in a prayer, petition, or request, of a testator upon his instituted heir, to deliver the inheritance, or some portion of it, to a designated person. Every
testament being originally a law of succession, proposed by the
testator, and consented to by the Roman people, the language
of legislation, that is, of mandate and authority, was essential
to its yalidity. Precatory words were insufficient to raise an
obligation upon the heir, or to vest property in the donee. This
was afterwards changed, and words of request then imposed a
charge upon the heir, to maintain the faith in which the testator
had confided. Afterwards, the distinctions between words of
mandate and of request became obsolete, and both were considered with reference to their significance of the intentions of

408

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh'et al. v. Murdoch et al.

the testator. -The notion of afidei commissum thus became
limited, implying no more than an estate in possession, encumbered with the charge to surrender it to ancther. This might be
pure and simple-that is, the duty to surrender might be immediate, or it might be on a condition, or after the expiration
of a'term even extending to the life of the gravatus. The substitate originally came in the place of another; the idea was
modified to include those who came after another under certain
circumstances.
The conjunction of thefidei commissum with the substitution
woid then become a natural mode of settlement of property.
The instituted heir might be charged to hod and enjoy the succession for his life, and at his death that it should go to another,
(his heir,) and that heir might in .turn become a gravatus, for
the benefit of another successor, and so from generation to generation.
Such a substitution might be properly called a "substitutionfiei commissaire," or an "oblique substitution." This mode of
limiting estates from degree to degree, anL geeration to generation, was much employed on the continent of Europe, and
served to accumulate wealth in a few fanilies at the expense
of the interests of the community. The vices of the system
were, freely exposed by the political writers. of the last century,
and a: general antipathy awakened against it. Substitutions
having this object were prohibited during the revolution in
France, and that prohibition was continued in the Code Napoleon, whose authors have exposed with masterly ability the
evils which acconipanied them. Motifs et Dis. 375.
This prohibition was- transferred to the code of Louisiana,
with the addition of thefidei commissa. These terms imply a
disposition of property through a succession of donees. The
.substitution of the article 1507 of the code being an estate for
'life, to be followed by a continuing estate in another by the
appointment of The testator.
The fidei commissa of the Louisiana Code are estates of a
similar nature, implying a limitation over from one to another.
They are the fidei commissa of the Spanishr and French laws, in
so far as those estates are not tolerated by other articles of the
code. We shall not attempt to define them from an examination of the code and the reports of the Supreme Court of that
State. It is not necessary for the decision of this case. We
are unable to perceive any thing in the code to justify the supposition that the English system of trusts, whether in its limited
signification as .applied in conveyancing, or in its broad and
comprehensive import, as applied by the. courts of chancery,
were within the puryiew of the authors of this code in framing

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

409

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murd6ch et al.

this prohibition. The terms substitution and fidei commissa
are words foreign to the English law. They are applied to no
legal relation which exists in it, and degcribe nothing which
forms a part of it. The technical words, of "charged to preserve and to render," in article 1507, which embrace so much to
a continental lawyer, only provoke inquiries in the mind of one
accustomed to the language of the common law. The allusion
to the "Treblll ianic portion" is to a right of which there has
never been a counterpart in the English system. The whole
article refers exclusively to things of a continental origin. The
estates known s fidei commissa and substitutions, in so far as
regards the, order of persons and the duration of their interest,
may be created by devise in an English will. This can be done
without the interposition of trustees or with them. That is,
legal estates or equitable estates can be limited to embody those
conditions of thefdei coummissa and substitution; but the separation of the same estate into parts, legal and equitable, with
separate courts in which their respective qualities may b represented, is not of continental origin. We may say of this as
Sir William Grant says of another doctrine of equity, "that in
its causes, its objects, its provisions, its qualifications, and its
exceptions, it is a law wholly English." We find nothing of the
fidei comnzssa or substitution in the legacy to the cities. The
mischiefs resulting from conveyances in mortmain, and which
led to restraints upon them, also existed in the substitutions of
the French law, and led to their suppression. The remedies for
the ni-schief, in consequence of the difference of the persons,
were essentially variant. In the case of natural persons, the
abrogation of the capacity to limit property from successor to
successor, and generation to generation, removed the evil of
perpetuities. But no statute against estates tail, or of remain.
der, or reversion, operate upon a corporation. The mischief results from the duration of the corporation and the tenacity with
which, from its nature, it holds to property. The fee-simple
estate to a corporation is that which most effectually promotes
the creation of a perpetuity. The remedy in Europe in this
case was to restrict the number of corporations, and to reserve
an oversight of their acquisitions to the so ereign authority.
This precaution was taken, as we have seen, also in Louisiana.
If she has granted to her metropolis an unrestricted license to
acquire and to hold property, we must conc.ude there were sufficient motives to justify the act.
Our next inquiry will be, whether the testator is authorized
to define the use and destination of his legacy. We have seen
that donations to the cities of the Roman empire followed immediately upon the senatus consueum which allowed them to
VOL. XV.

35

410

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of MlcDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

.ke. t.d that the destination of 'such donations to public uses
wa deciierecl. Domat says, "One can bequeathe or devise to a
'ity or other corporation whatsoever, ecclesiastical or lay, and
apptopriate the gift to some lawful and honorable purpose, or
,for public works, for feeding the poor, or for other objects of
piety or benevolence." Domat, Lois Civiles, b. 4, tit. 2, ยง 2.
The city of New Orleans holds its public squares, hospitals,
levees, cemeteries, and libraries by such dedications. This
cou4 says, (New Orleans v. United States, 10 Peters, 662,)

"1That property may be dedicated to public use, is a wellestablished prknciple of the common law. It is founded in
public convenience, and has been sanctioned by the experience
of ages. * Indeed, without' such a principle, it would be difficult,
if not impracticable, for society, in a state of advanced civilization, to enjoy those advantages which belong to its condition,
and which are essential to its accommodation."
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, in a number of cases, have
applied the principle contained in Vhese citations with confidence. DePontalba v. New Orleans, 3 An. 662; Will of Mary,
2 Rob. 440; Duke of Rich. v, Mylne, 17 La. 312; Maryland
and Louisiana v. Roselius, MS.
The code of Louisiana provides that donations made for the
benefit of an hospital,-of the poor of the community, or of
establishments of public utility, shall 'be accepted by the ad.
miuistrators of such establishments. C. C. 1536. It may be
very tkue this article relates merely to the formal manner by
which donations, inter vivos, for such'objects may be perfected;
*but'it will be observed that the requirement of the French Code
of a government license for the gift is dispensed with in the
frame of this article, and a strong implication arises from its
terms1 in favor of the validity of such gifts. An acceptance of
such donations in a will is unnecessary. Nor do we see any
ground for inferring a prohibition of donations by will, which
are lawful, inter vivos, in the absence of any prohibitive article
in the code. We ae of the opinion, therefore, that the testator
โข-might declare the uses to which he destined his legacy to the
cities; and the destination, being for purposes within the range
of the powers and duities of its public authorities, is valid.
We shall now examine the question, wdether the conditions
annexed to this legacy, the prohibition to alienate or to divide
the estate, or to separate in its management the interest of the
cities, or their care and control, or to deviate from the testator's
scheme, invalidate the bequest.
The appe~lees contend that the performance of these conditions is impossible; they are contrary to pu blic policy; introduce
tenures at variance with the laws; and would result in mischief

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

to the State. That the conditions are of the essence of the gif 4
and the will would not conform to the dispositions of the testator, if they should be erased or disregarded. They insist that
the appellees take by virtue of the law, but the devisees claim
under a will. That, if they cannot exhibit a clear and valid
devise of the property, the legal right of the heir should not be
defeated. That this court cannot, under the guise of judicial
construction, sanction an instrument from which the main prescriptions of the testator are obliterated.
The argument on this point against the cities possesses great
logical force. It is admitted that illegal or immoral conditions
will vitiate a contract, (C. C. 2026) ; but the code provides that,
"in all dispositions -intervivos and mortis causa, impossible conditions, those which are contrary to the laws or to morals, are
reputed not written." The authorities cited establish that, under
the word " con ditio ns," the various modes of appropriation, use,
and destination attached to this legacy are included. Merlin
says, "Conditions take different names according to their object;
they are called in tan charges, destinations, motives, designations, terms. But although the conditions, charges, destinations
&c., &c., ought to be distinguished, nevertheless the word condition often serves to express them all." Merlin's Rep. Cond. ยง 2.
The signification of this article of the code becomes then an
important inquiry. It is found in the Digest of Justinian, and
from thence passed into the codes of Fiance and Spain. TouiL
-5,
No. 255; 1 Escrich. Dic. leg. 565. It was copied from the
Code Napoleon into the Code of Louisiana. Savigny furnishes
us with the history of the law as found in the Pandects. One
of the schools into which the Roman jurisconsults was divided
(Proculeians) placed the construction of contracts and testaments, containing illegal or impossible conditions, on the same
principle, and insisted that the whole disposition in each should
be vitiated by them; another (Sabinians) changed the rule with
reference to the instrument, and, while contracts were vitiated
by the illegal or immoral conditions, in wills the conditions only
were pronounced nugatory. Justinian adopted the opinion of
the latter, which seems to have been preferred in practice before;
and his adoption has been regarded as a legislative sanction of
their rule in favor of testaments. Great authorities in France
oppose this doctrine, and in Prussia it exists, but in a modified
form, while it has been wholly rejected in Austria. 5 Toul.,
No. 247; Savig. Rom. Law, ยง 122-3z-4.
The common-law rule depends upon the fact, whether the
performance of the illegal, immoral, or impossible condition is
prescribed as precedent or subsequent to the vesting of the
estate of the devisee. In the former case, no estate exists till

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. M:urdoch et al.

the condition is performed, and no right can be claimed through
an illegal or immoral act. In the latter case, the estate remains,
because it cannot be defeated as a consequence of the fulfilment
of an illegal or immoral condition. This, aowever, applies only
to devises of real estate; for the ecclesiastical and chancery
courts, in regard to bequest of personalty, follow the rule of the
civil law, as above expressed. 1 Rop. Leg. 754-5; 7 Beav. 437;
1 Eden, R. 140; 2 Spence, Eq. . 229.
The conditions in the case before us, wIich impose restraints
upon alienation and partition, and exact a particular manage.
ment through agents of a specified description, are conditions
subsequent, and would not, by the rule of the common law,
divest the estate, if pronounced to be illegal or immoral. 3 Pet.
S. C. R. 377; 1 Sim. R. N. S. 464; 7 11. L. & Eq. 179; 2 .
C. Scott, C. B. R. 883; 2 Zabriskie R. 117; 10 Ala. R. 702.
These conditions belong, too, to the class that are reprobated
as repugnant to the legal rights which the law attaches to ownership. The common law pronounces ,such conditions void,
in consequence of that repugnancy, and the civil law treats.
them as recommendations and counsel, not designed to control
the will of the donee. 1 Rop. Leg. 785; 4 Kent's Com. 130;
Toul. 5, No. 51; Id. No. 405 ; Dalloz. Die. tit. Cond. 96 ; 10 ,.
L. & E. R. 23.
Our opinion upon the article of the code we have cited is,
that it does not prescribe a rule of interpretation, to aid the understanding of the courts in finding the intention of the testator, but that it is a peremptory enactment of the legislative
authority, applicable to the subject-matte:: in all cases, without
reference to any declared or presumed intentions of the author
of a particular donation. The code treats such conditions in
contracts as the wrong of both the parties, and annuls the act.
In the case of the testament, while it refuses to allow the condition, it saves to the innocent legatee the disposition in his favor.
It may be that this is done on the presumption that, independent of the condition, the legatee is the favorite of the testator,
or' from a consideration of the legatee elone. Savigny Rom.
Law, ยง 122, et seq.
We have thus far treated the cities a, occupying an equal
position, and have considered the case with reference to the city
of New Orleans alone.
The city of Baltimore is legally incorporated, and endowed
with the powers usually granted to populous and improving
cities. The General Assembly of Maryland, in 1825, authorized
the city to establish public schools, and to collect taxes for their
support; and, in 1842, it was empowered to receive in trust, and
to control for the purposes of the trusts, any property which

DECEMBER

TERM, 18-53.

413

Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

might be bestowed upon it, by gift or will, for any of its general corporate purposes, or in and of the indigent and poor, or
for the general purposes of education, or for charitable purpotes
of any description whatsoever, within its limits. The legal capacity of the city, therefore, corresponds with that of the city
of New Orleans. Do the laws of Louisiana make a discrimination ?
The code declares, "that all persons may dispose of or receive
by donations, inter vivos or mortis causa, except such as the law
declares expressly incapable." C. C. 1456. There is no dis.
tinction between corporations and natural persons in the power
to receive by donation, nor do we find any discrimination be.
tween domestic and foreign corporations, except, perhaps in a
single article. "Donations may be made in favor of a stranger,
when the laws -of his- country-do not prohibit similar dispositions in favor of a citizen of this State." C. C. 1477.
We greatly doubt whether this article applies to all the citizens or corporations of the States of the Union. The constitutional relations between the citizens of the different States are
those of equality, in reference to the subject of this article.
This court, in the case of the Bank of Augusta v. Earle, (13
Pet. 520,) said, "that by the law of comity among nations, a
corporation created by one sovereignty is permitted to make
contracts in another, and to sue in its courts; and that the same
law of comity prevails among the several sovereignties of the
Union. This co ity is presumed from the silent acquiescence
of the State. Whenever a State sufficiently indicates that
contracts which derive validity from its comity are repugnant
to its policy, or are considered as injurious to its interests, the
presumption in favor of its adoption can no longer be made.
These principles were applied to a purchase of lands by the
corporation of one State in another. Runyon v. Coster, 14 Pet.

122.
The principles of these cases have been adopted in Louisiana.
4 Rob. La. R. 517; 17 La. R. 46, 312.
We know of no departure from these principles in Maryland,
and do not doubt that the corporations of Louisiana would
take in the same manner as those of Maryland in that State.
The question remains to be considered, whether the destination of the legacy to public uses in the city of Baltimore affects the
valid operation of the bequest. All the property of a corporation
like Baltimore is held for public uses, and when the capacity is
conferred or acknowledged to it to hold property, its destination
to a public use is necessarily implied. Nor can we perceive
why a designation of the particular use, if within the general
objects of the corporation, can affect the result; nor is there
85*

414

SUPREME COURT.
Executors of McDonogh et al. v. Murdoch et al.

any thing in the nature of the uses declared in this will which
can withdraw from the legacy a legal protection.
Neither do we concede that the ues, being in a degree
foreign to the State of Louisiana, impair the effect of the will.
It is well settled that, where property is conveyed to a use which
would be protected; if to be executed at home, in the absence
of a prohibition, the conveyance would be valid if the execution were ordered to take place abroad. This question was
considered by Mr. Justice Story, in the opinion prepared by him
for the case of the Baptist Association v. Smith, published in 3
Pet. 486, 500.
He says, 'lthere
is no statute of Virginia making such bequests void; and, therefore, if against her policy, it can only be
because it would be against'the general policy of all States Coverned by the Common Law." He concludes: "there is no
solid objection to the bequest, founded upon the objects being
foreign to the State of Virginia." In the late case of Whicker
v. Hume, (14 Beav. 509,) on appeal, (16 Jur. 391,) a bequest to
trustees, to be appropriated in their absolute and uncontrolled
discretion, for the benefit and advancement and propagation of
learning in every part of the world, as far as circumstances will
permit," was pronounced valid. We find nothing in the Code
of Louisiana indicating a spirit less comprehensive or catholic;
we shall not, therefore, infer the existence of a restriction where
none has been declared. We are of the opinion, that the uses
for which the testator has devised his estate to the city of Baltimore, are approved alike in the legislation of Louisiana and
Maryland, and that the execution of them may be enforced in
their courts.
We have considered the legacy without a reference to the
annuities which the testator has charged upon it. It is only
necessary for us to determine a single question in regard to
them. Are the heirs at law interested in the question of their

legality?
The Civil Code (C. C. 1697) declares "that legatees under a
universal title, and legatees under a particular title, benefit by
the failure of those particular legacies, which they are bound to
discharge."
It will be seen that all the annuitants, having a distinct character from the cities, have a claim upon them for their annual
allowance. Should these annuities be invalid this charge would
'be removed, and the cities relieved. Such was the decision of
the Supreme Court of Louisiana, (Prevost v. Martel, 10 Rob.
512,) and such the conclusion of the Coint of Cassation, in
Hanaire v. Tandon, the report of whose judgment is appended
to one of the briefs of the appellants.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

415"*

Wylie v. Coxe.

The annuities created to establish an Asylum for the Poor
and a School Farm- and of the validity of which grave
doubts exist- are charges upon the legacy of the cities. If the
directions of the testator cannot be legally complied with, the
charge will be remitted without defeating the legacy. Say. Roman Law, ยง 120, 129.
We shall not express any decided opinion in reference to
either of the annuities, but leave the question of their validity
to be settled by the persons interested, or by the tribunals to
whose jurisdiction they approptiately belong.
We have considered it to be our duty to examine the several
questions which arise upon the record, so that the imp6rtant interests involved in them may be relieved from further embarrassment and controversy. In our opinion, the failure of the devise
to the cities would not have benefited the appellees; for that
the limitation over to the States of Maryland and Louisiana
would have been operative in that event.
We close our opinion with expressing our acknowledgments
for the aid we have received from the able arguments at the
bar, and the profound discussions in the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, with whose judgment we have concurred.
The decree of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court,
with directions to dismiss the bill of the plaintiffs with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record frora the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration wiereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in thig cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs;
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
gaid Circuit Court, with directions to that court to dismiss the
bill of the complainants, with costs in that court.

ANDREW WYLIE, JR., ADMINISTRATOR OF SAMUEL

BALDWIN, Ar-

PELLANT, V. RicHARD S. CoxE.
Where a contract was made with au attorney for the prosecution of a claim against
Mexico for a stipulated proportion of the amount recovered, and services were rne-

