354

SUPREME COURT.
Carter v. Bennett.

Walworth was unable to purchase, at one dollar and twenty-five
cents per acre, another portion of the land mentioned in the
contracts, in consequence of its subsequent cession by the
United States to the territory of Wisconsin. Whether that
cession, and -the enhanced price at which it was held, absolved
him from the obligation of performing any part of the contract,
depended altogether upon its construction. The rights of the
parties did not depend on the act of Congress making the cession, but upon the contract into which, they had entered. And
the construction of that agreement, and the rights and obligations of the parties under it, were questions exclusively for the
State court; and over its decree in this respect this court has no
control.
The writ of error must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the. transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged, by this court that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

F xsH CARTER, PI4 fNTIFF

IN ERROR, v. ARCHIBALD T. BENNETT.

A person was sued in the Territorial court of Florida.
After the admission of.Floxida as a State, the case was trmnsferred to a State court.
The defendant appeared, and pleaded the general issue.
The Terdict was given against him.
He then moved in arrest of judgment, upon the groand hhat the case ought to have
been transferred to the District Court of the United Sta:es, instead of a State court.
The motion was overruled, and judgment entered up against him.
Upon an appeal to the Supreme Court of Florida, this judgment was affirmed.
shis
court has no jurisdietion under the 25th section of tha judicary act, to review
that decision.
What the State rourt decided, was the motion in arrest of judgment, where the record
only is examined, and no new evidence admitted. There was nothing in the pleadings to show that the defendant was a citizen of Georgia, and no defect of jurisdiction was apparefit
The defendant might have pleaded in abatement, that ha was a citizet of Georgia,
but not having done so, it was two late to introduce the matter upon a motion in
arrest of judgment.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

355

Carter v. Bennett.
As it does not appear, therefore, that the Supreme Court of the State must have decid.A adversely to the party now claiming the interposition of this court, and decided
so upon the construction of an act of Congress, the writ of error mustbe dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.

Tnis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Florida, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
The case is set forth in the opinion of the court.
.1r.Davis made a motion to dismiss it, for want of jurisdiction, which motion was resisted by Mr. Johnson.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.

This case comes before us upon a writ of error directed to the
Supreme Court of the State of Florida; and a motion has been
made to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.
The suit was brought by Bennett, the defendant in error,
against Carter, the plaintiff in error, in December, 1842, while
Florida was yet a territory, and was continued, from term to
term, until she was admitted nto the Union as a. State. The
action was trover for certain property. The declaration" was in
the usual form, and the defendant pleaded the general issue of
not guilty. After Florida became a State, and the territorial
court, in which the suit was pending, ceased to exist, the papers
were transmitted by the clerk to the Circuit Court of the State
for the same county.
The plaintiff and defendant both appeared in the Circuit
Court, and the case was continued until December,.1848, when
the parties proceeded to trial- and the jury found for the defendant in error, and assessed his damages at $19,999.66.
Several exceptions were taken to the rulings of the court on
the trial, which it is not necessary to mention, because they relate to the laws of the State, over which this court can exercise
no jurisdiction upon this writ of error. After the verdict was
rendered against him, The plaintiff in error, moved for a new
trial. But the motion was overruled by the court. He thereupon offered to prove that he was a citizen of Georgia at the
time the suit was instituted in the territorial court, and- had
continued to be so, and still was a citizen of that State. And
this fact being admitted by the opposite party, he moved in
arrest of judgment, and that the case be dismissed from the
court, with an order to the clerk to transfer the papers to the
District Court of the United States for Ihe Northern District of
Florida, or hold the papers and proceedings subject to any order
of transfer or demand from the said court

SUPREME

COURT.

Carter v. Bennett.

This motion was refused, and judgment entered on the verdict
Whereupon he appealed to the Supreme Court of the State; and
the judgment of the Circuit Court being there affirmed, he has
brought the case before this court by writ of error.
In support of this writ the plaintiff in error contends, that as
he was a citizen of Georgia at the time the suit was brought
in the territorial court and also when the act of Congress of
February 22d, 1847, was passed, the suit was, by operation of
that law, transferred to the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Florida, and that the Circuit Court
of the State had no right to take possession of the papers in the
case, nor any authority to try and decide il;; and that, by moving in arrest of judgment upon this ground, he had claimed a
right under a law of the United States; an'. that, as the decision
was against the right claimed, he is entitled to a writ of error
under the 25th section of the act of 1789.
Upon this motion to dismiss the writ of error, the construction of the act of Congress of 1847 is not before us. In this
stage of- the case we are not called on. to decide whether this,
act of Congress did or did not, proprio vipore, transfer the case
to the District Court bf the United States, The only question
presented by the motion is, whether, upon the record before us,
we have a right to reverse the judgment of the State Court.
And in order to give this court jurisdiction over the judgment
of the State court, it must appear by the :record that the right
now claimed by the plaintiff in error, to remove the case tr,the
District Court of the United States, was so drawn in question
in the State court, that it must have been decided in the judg-.
ment it has given.
Now, there is nothing in the pleadings to show that Carter
was a citizen of Georgia. It is not so stated in the declaration
or plea. And when the papers were transmitted to the State
court, he appeared there and defended himself upon the plea of
the general issue, which he had put in, in the territorial court.
This plea admitted the jurisdiction of the court; and the case
was tried and the verdict rendered upon these pleadings. And
upon a motion in arrest of judgment the curt cannot look beyond the record; and the judgment cannot be arrested, unless
there is some error in law or defect of jurisdiction apparent in
the proceedings. And here there was no error or defect of jurisdiction apparent on the record, even if the construction of the
act of 1847, contended for by the plaintiff in error, is the true
one. Both parties, by their pleadings, admitted the jurisdiction
of the court; and there was .no averment, in any part of them,
that Carter was a citizen of Georgia. Arid after a verdict is
rendered. the judgment cannot be arrested by the introduction

DECEMBER T-ERM, 1853.

357

Carter v. Bennett.

of new evidence on a new fact. -It may, in a proper case, lay
the foundation of a motion for a new trial, but not in arrest of
judgment.
It is evident, therefore, that the State court, in proceeding to
give judgment on the verdict, could not legally have decided
upon the validity of the plaintiff's objection to its jirisdiction.
They could not hear evidence, in that stage of the case, to prove
that Carter was a citizen of Georgia, nor judicially notice it
when admitted by the opposite party; And we are bound to
presume that they proceeded to judgment on this ground, and
did not consider the right claimed by the plaintiff in 6rror as
properly before them.
In an action in a circuit court of the United States, where
the jurisdiction depends upon the citizenship of the parties, it
has always been held, that where the plaintiff avers in his declaration that he and'the defendant are citizens of different States,
if the defendant means to deny the fact and the jurisdiction,
he must plead it in abatement; and if he oniits -to plead it in
abatement, and pleads in bar to the action, he cannot avail himself of the objection at the trial. Still less could he be permitted to do so upon a motion in arrest of judgment. And the
same principles which thik court sanction in such cases in the
courts of the United States, upon questions of jurisdiction de.
pending upon personal privilege, we are bound to apply to the
proceedings in the State court.
Undoubtedly it was in the power of the plaintiff in error,
when he appeared to the suit in the Circuit Court of the State,
to have pleaded to the jurisdiction, upon the ground that he was
a citizen of Georgia. Whether such a plea could have been
maintained or not, it is not necessary for us to say. But it would.
have brought before the court the construction of the act of
1847, and it must have been judicially decided. And if the decision had been against the right he claimed nder it., this court
would have had jurisdiction to hear and determine that question.
But upon the record, as it comes before us, it does not appear
that this question was ever presented to the State court in a
manner that would enable it judicially to notice or decide it.
And the writ of error must therefore be dismissed for Want of
jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of -the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

