160

SUPREM1E COURT.
Phelps v. Mayer.

ELIJAH PHELPS," PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JACOB MAYEI.
In order to make a bill of exceptions valid, it must appear by the transcript not
only that the instructions were given or refused at the trial, but also that the party
who complains of them, excepted to them while the jury were at the bar.
The bill of exceptions need not be drawn out in form and signed before the jury
retire; but it must be taken in open court, and must appear by the certificate of
the judge who authenticates it, to have been so taken.
Hence, when the verdict was rendered on the 13th Deceraber, and on the next day
the plaintiff came into court and filed his exception, it is not properly before this
court. And no error being assigned or appearing in the other proceedings, the
judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed, with costs.

Mr. Justice Curtis did not sit in this cause, having been of
counsel for the patentee.
THis case was brought up by writ of elTor from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Indiana.
It is not necessary to state either the facts or arguments of
the case, inasmuch as it went off upon a point of practice.
It was atgued by .Mr. Ewing, for the plaintiff in error, and
.Mr. Ternegan, for the defendant in error.
MrM.
Jernegan thus noticed the point upon which the case
went off.
A preliminary objection arises. It appears from the record
that the verdict was rendered on the 13th of December, and the
bill of exceptions filed on the 14th. No ex-,eptions were taken
on the trial. It is therefore too late now to object to the instructions of the court, or its refusal to give the instructions
required. 11 Peters's Rep. 185; 6 Blackford's Rep. 417; Cully
v. Doe, 11 Adolph. & Ellis, 1008, note.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This action was brought by the plaintiff in error against the
defendant in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana, for the infringement of the plaintiff's rights
under a patent granted to him for a new and useful improvement in the application of hydraulic power. The case was
submitted to a jury under certain directions from the court, and
the verdict and judgment were for the defendant.
This writ of error is brought for the purpose of revising this
judgment--and the case-has been fully argued upon the charge
given by the Circuit Court, and also upon its refusal to give
sundry directions to the jury which were requested by the
plaintiff.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Phelps v. Mayer.

But, although it appears by the certificate of the judge, sent
up as part of the record, that these instructions were given and
refused at the trial, yet it also appears that no exception was
taken to them while the jury remained at the bar. The verdict
was rendered on the 13th of December, and the next day the
plaintiff came into court and filed his exception. There is
nothing in the certificate from which it can be inferred that this
exception vas reserved pending the trial and before the jury
retired.
The defendant in error ncw objects that this exception was
too late, and is not therefore before this court, upon the writ of
error. We think this objection cannot be overcome.
It has been repeatedly decided, by this court, that it must
appear by the transcript, not only that the instructions were
given or refused at the trial, but also that the party who complains of them excepted to them while the jury were at the
bar. The Statute of Westminster 2d, which provides for the
proceeding by exception requires, in explicit terms, that this.
should be done; and if it is not done, the charge of the court,
or its refusal to charge as requested, form no part of the record,
ind cannot be carried before the appellate court by writ of
error. It need not be drawn out in form and signed before the
jury retire; but it must be taken in open court, and must
appear, by the certificate of the judge who authenticates it, to
have been so taken.
Nor is this a mere formal or technical provision. It was introduced and is adhered to for purposes of justice. For if it is
brought to the attention of the court that one of the parties
excepts to his opinion he has an opportunity of reconsidering
or explaining it more fully to the jury. And if the exception
is to evidence, the opposite party might be able to remove it,
by further testimony, if appriseid of it -in time.
This subject was fully considered in the case of Sheppard v.
Wilson, 6 How. 275, where the cases previously decided in this
court, affirming the rule *abovestated, are referred to.
There being, therefore, no exception before the court, and no
error being assigned or appearing in the other proceedings, the
judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.
14 *

