348

SUPREME COURT.
Walworth v. Kneeland eD al.

Neither the specification nor the claim, in my opinion, embrace the workmanship of the defendants. I therefore respectfully dissent from the judgment of the court, which implies the
contrary.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
frorni the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued. by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is no-w here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

CLINTON WALWORTH, PLAINTIFF IN ER.OR, V. JAMES KNEELAND AND HANNAH HIS WIFE, AND FRANCES CORNELIA FosTER AND WILIAm FOSTER, INFANTS, BY THEIR NEXT FRIEND,

JAMES KNEELAND.
Where a case was decided in a State court against a-paity, who was ordered to con.
* vey certain land, and he brought the case up to this court upon the ground that the
contract for the conveyance of the land was contrarr to the laws of the United
Ptates, this is not enough to give jurisdiction to this court under the 25th section
Uf the judiciary act.
The State court decided against him upon the ground that the opposite party was
innocent of all design to contravene the laws of the United States.
But even if, the Stato'court had enforced a contract, which was fraudulent and void,
the losing party has no right which he can enforce in this court, which cannot therefore take jurisdiqtion over the case.
.

THis case'was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Wisconsin, by a writ of error istsued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It -was submitted, on a printed briefby Mr. Smith, on behalf
of' the plaihfiff in error, and argued by M. Baxter, for the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the following
points.

1st. The contract in which this suit originated was made in
violation of the act of Congress, approved March 3d, 1807, en
titled "An act to prevent settlements being made on lands ceded
to the United States, until authorized by law. 2 U. S. Stat. 445.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

849

Walworth v. Kneeland et al.

The first section prohibits the occupation and cultivation of
the public lands, under the penalty of forfeiture of all the right
and claim of the occupant.
The f6urth section provides for the removal of such occupants
and their punishment by fine and imprisonment..
At the time all the contracts connected with the land in question, to which Walworth was a party, were made, there was no
preemption law of the United States in force. Every occupant
of the public lands was a trespasser and occupied in violation
of the act of 3d of larch, 1807, unless he had permission pursuant to the provisions of the second section of that act.
2d. The bond of Walworth tq Arnold, and the contract in
which it originated, were made in violation of the 4th section
of the act of Congress, of the 31st of March, 1830. U. S. Stat.
vol. 8, p. 278.
3d. These agreements respecting this land between Frisbee
and Walworth, Frisbee and Arnold, and Walworth and Arnold,
all originated in, and were part of, a combination to hinder and
prevent, at first any other person than Frisbee, and after his sale,
any other than Walworth from'purchasing the land at the public sales of the United States. There was a double combination. Walworth, Arnold, and Frisbee, combined together, and
they also combined with and became a part of the general organization of the settlers upon the public lands in the Mlilwaukie land district, to prevent any one, excepting the actual claimant under the rules of such organization, from purchasing such
lands at the public sales.
4th. Frisbee testifies that whether the title was obtained by
preemption or under the claim laws, the title to the land, according to the original contract, was to come to him; that is,
he was to purchase direct from the United States, and convey
one half to Walworth; and he (Walworth) for that one half
was to furnish money to pay for the whole, in addition to the
$100 he paid Frisbee at the time of making-the original contract. In other words, he was to give something more than the
price for which the land should be purchased of the United States.
This contract was clearly within both the spirit and the letter
of the act of 31st March, 1830, which declares all such contracts
absolutely void.
5th. The contract between Walworth and Arnold, if ever valid,
was annulled or rendered impossible to be performed by the act
of Congress, passed 18th day of June, 1838, entitled "An act to
grant a quantity of land to the Territory of Wisconsin for the
purpose of aiding to open a canal to connect the waters of Lake
Michigan with those of Rock River.
The counsel for the defendant in error moved to dismiss the
VOL. Xv.

so

350

SUPREMIE
WValworth

y..

COURT.

Kneeland et al.

case for want of jurisdiction, and on that motion and on the
argument of the case, relied on the following points:
I. Foster, the plaintiff in the court below, purchased from
Arnold the land in question, and took the assignment of the
title bond executed by Waworth, without any knowledge of,
or participation in, the illegality (if any existed) between Frisbee
and Walworth. He expended his money in the purchase and
improvement of the land, without any design to violate 6r encourage the violation of law.
He therefore contends that Walworth cannot set up the defence of illegality against him.
1. Because they are not in pari delicto.
2. Because he was able to establish his case as stated in is
bill, and claim specific performance of the contract, without relying on the illegal contract alleged by Waworth to exist between Frisbee and Walworth.
On this point the defendant in error will rely on the following
cases: Faikney v. Reynous, 4 Burr. 2070; S. C. 1 W. Blackstone's Rep. 633; Petrie ',. Hannay, 3 T. R. 418; Simpson v.
Bloss, 7 Taunt. 246; Fivaz v. Nicholls, 2 ANL G. & S. 501-52;
Eng. Com. Law Rep. 501; Bunn v. Winthrop, 1 Johns. 0. R.
337 ; Ellis v. Nimm,, Lloyd & Goold, 333; 10 Cond. Eng. C.
Rep. 533; Lewis v. Davison, 4 Mfees. &N iels. 654.
IL This court has not jurisdiction,.because the deqision of
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin- does not question the validity
of any of the statutes referred to in the assignment of errors,
nor has the plaintiff in error set up any right, title; privilege, or
exemption under said statutes or any of them.
III. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin has not misconstrued
the acts of Congress named in the assignment of errors.
On these points the defendant in error will refer to the acts
of Congress and authorities"mentioned below.
The Judiciary Act, 1 Stat. at Large, I5, L. & B.'s edition.,
An act to prevent Settlements, etc. 2 Id. 45. An act for the
relief, etc. 4 Id. 391-2. An act to grant, etc., 5 Stat. at Large,
245. An act regulating grants, etc., south of Tennessee, 2 Id.
pp. 229-30, §§ 2, 3, 1803. An act supplementary, etc. 2 Id.
c. 43, § 5, 1805. An act to authorize tie State of Tennessee, etc., 1806, c. 31, § 2, condition and 2d proviso, 2 Id. 3S3.
An act regulating grants of land in Michigan, 1807, c. 34, § 2,
p. 438, vol. 2. .An act supplemental, e'c., 1808, c. 10, § 1,
p. 455, vol. 2. 1808, c. 40, § 6, p. 480, an act concerning sales.
1808, c. 67, § 3, p. 503, an act supplemental, etc. Act of 1811,
c. 46, § 4, 1st proviso, vol. 2, p. 664, preference given to occupants. 1813, c. 20, 1p. 797, preference in sales in Illinois
tenitory, given to settlers. 1814, c. 61, § 4, p. 126, vol. 3, pre-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

351

Walworth v. Kneeland et al.

emption to settlers in Illinois prior to February 5, 1813. 1815,
c. 63, § 3, p. 218, vol. 3. 1816, c. 101, § 1, p. 307, vol. 3. 1816,
c. 163, §§ 1, 2, and pp. 330,331. 1820, c. 86, p. 573. 1826, c. 28,
vol. 4, p.'154, preemptions to settlers in Alabama, Mississippi,
and Florida. 1830, c. 208, vol. 4, p. 420. 1834, c. 54, vol. 4,
p. 678. 1838, c. 119, vol. 5, p. 251. Piatt v. Oliver and others,
2 McLean, 278; Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 410,411.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by a writ of error directed to
the Supreme Court of the State.of Wisconsin.
A bill in equity was filed in the Milwaukie District Court of
that State by Gustavus A. Foster, against Walworth, the plaintiff in error, to obtain the specific performance of a contract for
the conveyance of a certain quarter section of land described
in the bill. The contract under which, the complainant claims
is set out in the bill; and, as he alleges, was made by WalWorth
with a certain Jonathan E. Arnold; that the land in question
had at that time been surveyed by the government, but not
offered for sale; and that Arnold, in pursuance of and in execution of the agreement with Walworth, entered upon and took
possession of it, and afterwards assigned his interest* to the
complainant, who took possessioh, and still held the possession
when -his bill was filed; that Walworth had become the purchaser, pursuant to his agreement with Arnold, and obtained a
legal title from the United States; and was bound, under that
agreement and the assignment of Arnold above nentioned, to
convey the land to the complainant.
Foster died pending the suit, and the defendants in error are
his legal representatives.
Walworth, in his answer, alleges that the original contract in
relation to this land, was between him and d man by the name
of Frisbee; that Frisbee transferred his interest to Arnold, who
agreed to take his place, and fulfil his part of the agreement;
and that the contract with Arnold was made upon that condition. He admits that Arnold conveyed his interest to Foster.
He also gives in much detail the several contracts; the understanding of the respective parties at the time, as he alleges it to
have been; their acts afterwards; the object of the agreement;
and the circumstances under which he afterwards became the
purchaser of the land claimed. And he denies that there was
any valuable consideration moving from Frisbee or Arnold to
him to support the contract; and if there was, he denies the
construction given by the complainant to the agreement; and
denies, also, that his subsequent purchase from the government
was made under it. He alleges that neither Frisbee .nor Arnql4

352

SUPREME COURT.
Walworth v. 3Kneeland et al.

performed their part of the contract; and, moreover, that the
contract was void, because its object and purpose was to prevent competition for public lands, when offered at auction by
the government, and therefore against the policy of the law.
Testimony was taken on both sides; and, at the final hearing,
the court, by its decree directed Walworth to convey to the defendants in error the one half of the quarter section in question.
Walworth appealed to the Supreme Cour; of the State, where
the decree was affirmed. And this writ of error is brought to
revise that decree.
Upon looking into the proceedings in the State court, we
should be at a loss to understand how this court could be supposed to have jurisdiction upon this writ of error, over any of
the questions decided in the State court, if the printed argliment
in behalf of the plaintiffs in error had not p ointed to the one on
which he relies. For we do not see that Walworth set up any
right or title under an act of Congress; or that any of the contingencies took place at the trial which give jurisdiction to this
court under the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789.
But it appears that he claims lhe right to remove the case to
this court upon the following ground: He alleges in his answer
that, at the time of his contract with Frisbee, and also with Arnold, there was no act of Congress which authorized them to
settle on this land, or gave any right of .?re~mption to those
who had settled on them; that they were trespassers, and had
illegally combined with a large body of men of like character,
who had settled upon the public lands in that district, to prevent them from selling for more than one dollar and twenty-five
cents the acre, and to secure to each other at that price the land
they had respectively selected. And he further states, that these
settlers had adopted rules and established a land office in which
their respective claims were to be entered; and had agreed that,
if the government refused to grant the right of preemption at
the pice above named, and directed them to be sold at public
auction, the settlers would, by force and terr6r-or, as he terms
it, "by club or Lynch law"-prevent any one from bidding
against the settler for the land he had entered at their land
office; and would, by such means, enable him to buy it at the
lowest government price, that is, at 6ne doliar and twenty-five
cents an acre. And that, under the agreement between Frisbee
and himself, Frisbee was to hold possession, and have his claim
entered at the settlers' land office; and, if Congress should give
the right of pregmption at the lowest government price, he and
Frisbee or Arnold were to share in the profits, Walworth to
furnish the money to pay for it. And, if no right of preemption
was given, Walworth was to be permitted to buy, under the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

353

Walworth v. Kneeland et al.

settlers' re-ulations, at that price, and the profits in that case
also to be shared between the parties. And that these contracts
were in violation of the acts of Congress, in relation to the sales
of publi6 lands, and contrary to public policy, and, therefore,
void. Such is the substance of his defence on this part of the
case, so far as -we can gather it from his answer, (which is by
no means -clear in its statements,) and from the evidence he
offered to support it, and the printed argument filed in his
behalf.
It is due to the State court to say that, in its decree, it declares that such a contract would be void; and it decreed in
favor of the complainants upon the ground that it was not
proved, by legal testimony, that either Frisbee or Arnold had
undertaken to associate themselves -ith the illegal combination
of settlers, or to use any other unlawful means, to enable Walworth to buy the land in question at a reduced price.
But if it had been otherwise, and the State court had committed so gross an error as to say that a contract, forbidden by
an act of Congress, or against its policy, was not friudulent
and void, and that it might be enforced in a court of justice, it
would not follow that this writ of error could be, maintained.
In, order to bring himself within the twenty-fifth section of the
act of 1789, he must show that he claimed some right, some
interest, which the law recognizes and protects, and which
was denied to him in the State court. But this act of Congress
certainly gives him no right to protection from the consequences
of a contract made in violation of law. Such a contract, it is
true, -would not be enforced against him in a court of justice;
not on account of his own rights or merits, but from the want
of merits and good conscience in the party asking the aid of the
court. But to support this writ of error, he must claim a right
which, if well founded, he would be able co assert in a cort of
justice, upon its own merits, and by its own strength. No such
right is claimed in the answer of the plainuff in error. And indeed it would be a novelty in legislation and in public policy
if Congress had taken so much pains to provide for the protection of persons who had combined with others to perpetrate a
fraud on the United States, and found themselves in the end
the sufferers by the speculation; or who, by the error of a State
court, had been compelled to share its gains with their associates
in the fraud. The right or interest claimed in the State court
must be of a very different character, to entitle him to the protection of the act of 1789. It has already been so decided in
this court in the case of Udell and others v. Davidson, 7 How.
769.
Neither can the writ of error be supported on the ground that

30*

354

SUPREME COURT.
Carter v. Bennett.

Walworth was unable to purchase, at one dollar and twenty-five
cents per acre, another portion of the land mentioned in the
contracts, in consequence of its subsequent cession by the
United States to the territory of Wisconsin. Whether that
cession, and -the enhanced price at which it was held, absolved
him from the obligation of performing any part of the contract,
depended altogether upon its construction. The rights of the
parties did not depend on the act of Congress making the cession, but upon the contract into which, they had entered. And
the construction of that agreement, and the rights and obligations of the parties under it, were questions exclusively for the
State court; and over its decree in this respect this court has no
control.
The writ of error must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the. transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged, by this court that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

F xsH CARTER, PI4 fNTIFF

IN ERROR, v. ARCHIBALD T. BENNETT.

A person was sued in the Territorial court of Florida.
After the admission of.Floxida as a State, the case was trmnsferred to a State court.
The defendant appeared, and pleaded the general issue.
The Terdict was given against him.
He then moved in arrest of judgment, upon the groand hhat the case ought to have
been transferred to the District Court of the United Sta:es, instead of a State court.
The motion was overruled, and judgment entered up against him.
Upon an appeal to the Supreme Court of Florida, this judgment was affirmed.
shis
court has no jurisdietion under the 25th section of tha judicary act, to review
that decision.
What the State rourt decided, was the motion in arrest of judgment, where the record
only is examined, and no new evidence admitted. There was nothing in the pleadings to show that the defendant was a citizen of Georgia, and no defect of jurisdiction was apparefit
The defendant might have pleaded in abatement, that ha was a citizet of Georgia,
but not having done so, it was two late to introduce the matter upon a motion in
arrest of judgment.

