494

SUPREME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor ot al.

turned into the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district of Arkansas, by the grand jury imparelled for that district,
upon the 16th day of April, in the year of' our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-five, against said James L. Dawson, a white man, for the felonious killing of Seaborn Hill, another white man and not an Indian, on the eighth day of July,
A. D. 1844, in that county, belonging to the Creek nation of Indians, west of Arkansas, and which formed a part of the Indian
cohntry annexed to the judicial district o.f Arkansas by the act
of Congress, approved the seventeenth day of June, A. D. 1844,
entitled "An act supplementary to the act entitled 'An act to
regulate trade and intercourse with the '[ndian tribes, anal to
preserve peace on the frontiers, passed thirtieth June, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four,' in which cause, so pending, no trial has yet been had. And that this answer to the
first question supersedes the necessity of any answer to the
second question.
Whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

THOMAS KEARNEY, THOMAS JORDAN, AND CATHERINE HIS WVIFE,
ANASTASIA, K. THOmAS, ANNE E. K. CHEESEBOROUGH, AND
HolATIO N. KEARNEY, APPELLANTS, V. JON I. TAYLOR AND
OTHERS.
Where land was sold in New Jersey by order of the Orphars Court of one of the
counties, the conveyance was made not to the actual bilders, but to a person whom
'they-appointed to represent them.
Afterwards, the Supreme Court of the State having decided that such a practice was
irregular, the legislature passed a law enacting tat, upon proof of the absence of
fraud, such deeds might be given in evidence. This cured the defect in the title.
The purchasers were a company organized for the purpose of improvingthe land, and
in their purchase there was neither actual or constructive fraud.
The law examined with respect to the bidding of associations at sales by public auction.
In this instance the price obtained was greatei than any revious estimate of the value
of the property.
There was no constructive fraud because, according to tLe evidence, the guardian of
the minor. children and the commissioners who decided that the property ought
to be sold, did not become interested in the company until some time after the sale.
The circumstance that these persons became interested in the companybefore the first
half of the purchase-money was due, is not a sufficient reason for setting aside the
sale.
According to.the preponderance of the evidence, the grave charge that the auctioneer
who made the sale was one of the company, is not sustained.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

495

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

States for the District of New Jersey, sitting as a court of

equity.
The bill -was filed by by Thomas and Horatio Kearney, and
their sisters, Catherine, Anastasia, and Anne, who were the
children of Edmund Kearney, deceased. The complainants
were citizens of several States, viz.: Thomas 'and Catherine
of Mississippi, Anne of Connecticut, Anastasia of Michigan,
and Horatio of Ohio. The defendants were all citizens of New
Jersey, and were as follows, viz.: John I. Taylor, Edward Taylor, Isaac K. Lippincott, Ezra Osborne, John Hopping, Daniel
Holmes, and also the heirs of the following persons, viz.: of
Le6nard Walling, of John. W. Holmes, of James Hopping, and
of Joseph Taylor.
The bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court, and the e'omplainants appealed.
The case was this:
On the 30th of December, 1822, Edward Kearney, then of the
county of Monmouth, in the State of New Jersey, died intestate, sEeised in fee of a tract of land situated in that county, called
Key Grove, containing 781 acres. The land bordered upon
lRariton Bay, at the foot of Staten Island, for a mile or more,
with water of sufficient depth for the near approach of vessels.
At the time of his death Kearney left the following children:
James Kearney, born in December, 1801; Horatio N. Kearney,
born in October, 1803; John Kearney, born in November, 1805;
Mary Kearney, born in November, 1808; Thomas Kearney,
born in September, 1810; Anastatia Kearney, born in October,
181:2; Catherine \Keaney, born in Jure,. 1816; Anne E. Kearney, born in June, 1818.
i May, 1828, James Kearney sold all his interest in the land
to Daniel Holmes and John W. Holmes.
A law of New Jersey, passed in 1820, (Revised Statutes of
New Jersey of 1821, page 776 et seq.) directs that upon application made by the heirs of a person dying seised of lands, or by
any person duly authorized in their behalf, or claiming under
them, a division may be ordered; and the 19th section authorizes a sale when the land is so circumstanced that, in the opinion
of the commissioners, partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners, and upon satisfactory proof of that fact
being made to the court.
On the 15th day of April, 1829, Daniel Holmes, on behalf of
himself and John W. Holmes, filed a petition for partition in the
Orphans Court for the county of Monmouth, at the April term,
1829, against the heirs of Edmund Kearney, setting forth their
purchase of the undivided one seventh part of the estate from
James P. Kearney; that by reason of the minority of some of

SUPREME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

the tenants in common, no division could take place by agreement, and praying the court to order a division.
At the time of these proceedings, Joseph Taylor was the administrator upon the estate of Edmund Kearney and the guardian of all his infant children who resided in the State of New
Jersey.
The court granted the petition, and appointed James Hopping, Edward Taylor, and Leonard Walling, commissioners.
The commissioners took the necessary oath to perform their
duty faithfully, on the 2d of June, 1829.
On the 10th of July, 1829, the commissioners reported to the
court that they had caused a survey and map of the premises to
be made, and that in their judgment the said premises were so
circumstanced that a division thereof could not be made without great prejudice to the interest of the owners.
At July term, 1829, the court passed art order that the commissioners should make the sale, at public auction, to the highest bidder, giving at least sixty days' notice of the time and
place of such sale, by advertisements put up in five of the most
public places in the county, and also in one public newspaper
circulating in the same county.
In January, 1830, the commissioners reported that they had
sold the land, as follows:
Lot No., one, containing 224- acres, to :[saac K.
.
. $6,744.60
.
Lippincott, at .$30 per acre
acres, to Thomas
Lot No. two, containing 56
1,593.Q6
Carhart, for $28.25 per acre
Lot No. three, containing 328 acres, to Amos 'WalS78.73.
.
ling, for $26.75 per acre
Lot No. four, containing i8 , acres, to Jonathan
709.551
.
.
.
Tilton, at $38.50 per acre
Lot No. five, containing 595 acres, to Ezra Osborn,
.
1,335.20
.
.
Esq., for $22.50 per acre .
Lot No. six, containing 56,C acres, to Ezra Osborn,
753.13
.
.
Esq., for $13.25 per acre .
Lot No. se';en, containing 48w acres, to 1saac K.
.61
.
.
.Lippincott, for W25.25 per acre .
Lot No. eight, containing 241 acres, to Richard
1,0373
S. Burrowes, for $43 per acre
Lot No. nine, containing 74 acres, to ]saac K.
.
135.79
.
Lippincott, for $18.50 per acre
Lot No. ten, containing 161Wacres, to Ezra Osborn,
W194.69k
.
.
.
Esq., for $11.75 per acre .
Lot No. eleven, coritaining 59r. acres, to James
.
1,98U.s5z
.
.
Sproul, at $33.50 per acre
.

DECE3BER TERM, 1853.

497

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

Lot No. twelve, containing 261- acres, to Thomas
J. Walling, for $33 per acre
Lot No. thirteen, containing 49:4 acres, to Amos
Walling, for $29.50 per acre
.
Lot No. fourteen, containing 4035%acres, to Joseph
Carhart, for $7 per acre
.
Lot No. fifteen, containing 61 " acres, to Horatio
Kearney, for $12.25 per acre
.
.
.

858.66

1,457.8Y
282.45
751.41
$19,941.19

Amounting, in all, to the sum of nineteen thousand nine
hundred and forty-one dollars and nineteen cents, the one half
of -which, by the conditions of sale, was made payable on the
first day of April next, when deeds were 'to be made, and possession given to the purchasers; the other Iialf was made
payable in one year from the first of April next, without interest, by the purchasers giving approved security for the payment thereof.
In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and seals,
this twentieth day of January, iA the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty.
JAiEs HoPPING,
[L. s.]
EDwARD TAYLOR,
[L. S:
LEONARD WALLING. [L. s.J

The court ratified the sale, and ordered the commissioners to
execute deeds to the purchasers accordingly.
The lots numbered 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, were the subjects of
the present suit.
On the 1st of April, 1830, the commissioners executed a deed
for the above lots to John L Taylor, reciting that they did so at
the request of Osborn, Lippincott, and Burrowes.
About the time of the sale, in the preceding November, a company was organized, under circumstances which will presently
be explained, for the purpose of purchasing the above lots and
laying out a town upon them. The company consisted of the
following persons, viz. Joseph Taylor, administrator and guardiau; John L Taylor, ris son; Leonard Walling, commissioner;
David S. Bray; Ezra Osborn, son-in-law of Joseph Taylor;
James Hopping, commissioner; John Hopping, his brother;
Primrose Hopping, another brother and auctioneer; Isaac R.
Lippincott.
The time, manner, and object of the formation of the company are thus stated, in the answers of some of the defendants;
And the said John I. Taylor, for himself, further saith, that
some time after the said sale, and before the deed to him from
42 V

498

SUPREME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor (t al.

said commissioners was executed, but the precise time when,
this defendant cannot now remember, he bought of Ezra Osborn
the share of Richard C. Burrowes, by verbal agreement, the
said Osborn having, as this defendant understood, bought out
the said Burrowes, and he, the said J. I. Taylor, paid said Burrowes $40 for it, as an advance thereon'. And the said John
I. Taylor further says, that he has no recollection of any thing
else relating to the purchase of said Key Grove property, untib
as he thinks, the meeting of the surveyors to lay out roads, in
February, 1830, when it was proposed, by some one interested,
that the deed for lots 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, should be made to the
said J. I. Taylor, as he was then young a:ad unmarried, for the
convenience of transfers and to save expense. And this defendant, in further answering, says, that he does not know, of his own
knowledge, how the said Ezra Osborn, David S. Bray, John
Primrrse, and James Hopping, Isaac K. Lippincott, Leonard
Walling, came to [be] interested in the property, but believes,
and has always so heard and been informed, that on the second
day of the sale, viz. the fourth November, 1829, Daniel Holmes,
who was anxious, and whose interest it was to make the pro.
perty bring as much as possible, prevailed upon several gentlemen to join for the purpose of bidding for lot No. 8, aforesaid,
and that John Hopping, Ezra Osborn, Richard C. Burrowes,
Isaac K. Lippincott, Horatio N. Kearney, Septimus Stephens,
and Primrose Hopping, joined for that purpose; and this defendant believes, and so charges the truth to be, that the only
object of said Holmes in getting up said company was to indcrease te price of the property by creating competition; and that,
but for the said company, the lot No. 8 would have been struck
off to persons interested against improvement in that neighb orhood, for about twenty-nine dollars per acre. And this defend.
ant, the said John L. Taylor, in further answering, says, that said
barren,ofsandy
with wood
lot number
8 was
a poor,
very
litle value
upon
it, scarcely
valuesol
enoughto
pay of
fbrbut
its
own cutting, and worth but little for agricultural purposes; and
that, in the opinion of this defendant, no other plan could have
been hit upon which would have made the said lots 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
and 10, bring as much as they did bring. And the said John
Hopping, in further answering for himself, says, that so far as
he is
concerned,
ohimselfhe did not combine with any person
whatever to bring about a sale of the Key Grove property, nor
does he know or believe that anybody else dlid; that th~is defendant' did not atend the said sale on either day of the sale,
and previous to the said sale he did not kncw and had not heard
that any company had been or would be formed for the purchase
or sale of said Key Grove propertoy; nor had he any idea or be-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

499

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

lief that the said Key Grove property could be converted into a
seaport town. And the said John Hopping further says, that in
the evening of the first day's sale, after the adjournment, or the
morning of the next day, and before the sale commenced, in I a
conversation between this" defendant and his brother, James
Hopping, the said James Hopping told him that Daniel Holmes
and Septimus Stevens talked of making up a company to buy
the fishing point lot, viz. No. 8. This defendant then asked
said James Hopping if he was going to take a share, to which
the said James replied that he could not, as he was a commissioner; said James then said he expected that this defendant
could have a share if he wished. This defendant then tol4 him
to tell Daniel Holmes that he would take a share; and this defendant, the said John Hopping, expects that his brother did so
report him. And the said John Hopping, for himself, says, that
the said James Hopping had no interest in said purchase of lots
No. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, at the time of said sale, nor until about
three months after, when he consented to come in .nd advance
a part of the purchase-money, at the instance and request of
this defendant ana his brother Primrose. And this defendant,
in further answering for himself, says, that neither the said
commissioners, nor the said guardian, nor any or either of them,
to the best knowledge or belief of this defendant, were interested, directly or indirectly, in said purchase at the time thereof,
nor had he ever heard, until after the reading of the bill in this
cause, that there had been any combination, unlawful or other-'
wise, to bring about a sale of said Key Port property. And
these defendants, in further answering, say, that the said sale
was in every respect fair, as far as these defendants know, and
as they verily believe, and that they never heard of any allegation to the contrary, until about the time of the commencement
of the suits in ejectment referred to in the bill of complaint; and
this defendant, the said Ezra Osborn, answering for himself,
absolutely denies that previous to said sale he combined with
any person whatever to procure a sale of said property, nor did
he ever know, hea, or believe, that such combination had been
entered into by any person or persons whatever, nor did he kIow
or believe at the time of said sale, nor does he now know or believe, that the said commissioners and guardian, or either or any
of them, were at the time of said sale interested, directly or indirectly, in said purchase. And this defendant, Ezra Osborn, in
further answering, says, that his object in attending said sale
was to bid for lot No. 1, and that he did bid for it until it got
up, in the opinion- of this defendant, to its full value, when this
defendant stopped bidding, and Isaac Lippincott bidding higher,
it was struck off to the said Lippincott just before dinner on the

SUPREME

COURT.

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

second day of sale. And this defendant, in further answering,
says, that according to his best memory and belief, said lot No.
1 was adjourned.on the first'day of sale at.twenty-three dollars
per acre on this defendant's bid, and that he became acquainted
with said Lippincott for the first time at said sale.
Lippincott in his answer, thus describes the formation of the
company.
And that this defendant, inasmuch as 'ae had .then become
the purchaser of lot No. 1, and it was evidently his interest that
lot No. 8 should not fall into the hands of persons whose interest were adverse to the Key Grove property, consented to be
one of several others to join and buy said. lot No. 8; that said
Daniel Holmes then proceeded to hunt for others to join in the
said purchase, and left us for that purpose, as he said; after a

short time the said Holmes. returned, and reported that he had
found several who would join with us in buying said lot No. 8,
*andmentioned the names of Osborn and Burrowes; and in a
consultation between the said Stephens, Holmes, Burrowes,
Osborn, and this defendant, it was then agreed that lot No. 8
should be purchased on said joint account, and that said Burrowes should be the bidder.
And this defendant charges the truth to *be,that said Holmes
did not speak to either of the said commissioners or guardians
to join-in said purchase, or if he did, that they declined it, and
that there was no understanding, directly or indirectly, that said
commissioners or guardians should be interested in said purchase; or if there was, or if said Holmes spoke or agreed with
either or any of them, this defendant expressly avers that it was
Without the knowledge and consent of this defendant.
And this defendant further says, that he was induced to join
in said purchase by the said representation of said Holmes and
Stephens, and that he id not want, and had no intention of
bidding for' or buying said lot No. 8, nor did he want it on his
indi'vidual account, and should not have joined in it but for the
said solicitation of said Holmes and Stephns.
And this defendant in further answering says, that according
to the best of his recollection and belief, that upon said sale
being re-opened in the afternoon of said 4th November, 1829,
said Burrowes bid for said lot No. 8 in puruance of said agree,
ment, and that it was struck off and sold by the said commis,
sioners, openly and fairly. to the said Burrowes, for the said
sum of $43 per acre, as the highest bidder.
And as this defendant then thought and believes, and as he
still thinks and believes, the said Burrowes was the only person
then kfiown to the commissioners as the purchaser; and-this
defendant charges that he was the only person legally re-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

501

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

sponsible for the purchase-money, and amply able to pay the
same.

Holmes, in his answer, thus speaks of it. And this defendant
in further answering says, that after he got upon the ground,
upon the second day of sale, he went to work, by going first-to
one person and then another, to get up a company to bid for
said lot No. 8, in opposition to the persons who it was understood were bidding from Middletown Point; and finally, after
lot No. 1 was struck off to I. K. Lippincott, and with considerable difficulty, the following persons agreed verbally to join with
this deflendant in purchasing said lot No. 8: Isaac K. Lippincott, Richard C. Burrowes, Horatio N. Kearney, Ezra Osborn,
Septimus Stephens, and he thinks Primrose Hopping. And
this defendant says that, after the adjournment of the first day
of sale he spoke also to James Hopping, one of said commissioners, to be interested, this defendant not then knowing that
there was any thing illegal in his becoming so, but the said
James Hopping absolutely refused on account of his being a
commissioner; this defendant then requested him to speak to
his brother John Hopping, when he went home, and see if he
would not come in. And this defendant says that some one,
either James or Primrose Hopping, reported next day ihat John
Hopping would come in, and he was accordingly considered
as one of the company at the sale.
And this defenidant in further answering says, that said company was got up by this defendant on the spur of the occasion,
and for no other purpose whatever but to create competition
and make property bring more, and extended originally only to
lot No. 8. And this defendant in further answering says, that
nmither James Hopping, Leonard Walling, [n] or Joseph Taylor,
were [was] at the time of the sale a part of said company, or.
interested in any way in the purchase of any part of said lots
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and'10.
The evidence of Primrose Hopping was as follows:
Primrose Hopping being sworn,.says: I was the crier of this
vendue. I struck off No. 8 to Richard C. Burrowes. He was
the highest bidder. William Walling and Richard C. Burrowes were tire only two bidders some considerable time before
it was struck off; one stood on my right hand and the other on
the left. William Walling was on the left hand and Richard C.
Burrowe* on the right. They were bidding twenty-five or fifty
cents per acre. William Walling was last bidder, except
Richard C. Burrowes. Burrowes bid openly, and Walling by
a -wink. I had a timepiece, and gave warning that if I had
not another bid I would strike it off to the highest bidder; and
after I got a bid from Burrowes, I imnediately turned to Wall-

502

SUPRRME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor et. al.

ing to get a bid, and did this repeatedly; and dwelt an unusual
time to get a bid, but could get none. I dwelt because he
looked at me as if anxious, but never bid; and finally I struck
it off to Richard C. Burrowes. I gave fair warning that I was
going to strike it off. I think it was put up at the first day,
but don't recollect the amount it bid up to. I had no instructions from commissioners to strike it off to Burrowes. I had
instructions from Edward Taylor several times not to dwell so
long upon the property. The whole farm was struck off to the
highest bidder, to my certain knowledge. Neither of commis-sioners or Joseph Taylor were interested in this property at the
time it was sold. I got the highest possible price for each section of the property. It was much better to have the property
sold than partitioned. I did not consider myself interested in
this property at the time it was struck off. I think Richard C.
Burrowes spoke to me about it. I don't recollect what I said.'
I don't recollect what the precise words weie. I don't think I
gave him a decided answer.
I think Burrowes spoke to me on the second day of sale. I
don't recollect that he told me who were concerned in the company. I can't say if any of the company lots had been sold
when Burrowes spoke to me. I am not sure if Burrowes said
it to me, or if it was the common talk to tr to make a landing
there. When Burrowes asked me; I think I did not tell Burrowes I would not join. I extended the time several times in
the sale of No. 8. I gave further time after Burrowes' last bid.
I think -Valling was a little farthest off. I did not know Van
Pelt as a bidder. Van Pelt claimed the bid. I requested the
property to be set up again. That was my custom. It was referred to commissioners, and they decided that it was stricken
off fair and should not be set up again. I did have an interest
in company property afterwards. I never paid any of the purchase-money. James, and John, and self had two-thirds. They
were my two brothers. My share was sold to Capt. Vanderbilt
with the rest in 1839. I depended on my brothers. They made
payments. Brothers received purchase-money, and accounted
to me at our settlement after. There was a balahce paid me.
We had other dealings. I can't remember when I came in partner with them. I can't say whose share of these lots James and
John got. I don't know which of my brothers I got the share
of, John or James. I don't know when, or if before deed to
John I. Taylor. I have no knowledge when I came in a partner. John L Taylor gave me some land. in exchange for lot
No. 17r, and some money. He and Joseph Taylor gave me 7J
acres back, next to Vandine's. The trade was made several
years -ago, before the commencement of suit, &c., &c., &c.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

508

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

In April, 1830, twenty-four building lots were laid out upon
part of lot No. 8, sixteen of which were distributed in severalty
aaongst the members of the company, and the residue left to
be sold by John I. Taylor for their benefit. , Other measures
of improvement were adopted which it is not necessary to state
particularly.
In the case of Doe v. Lambeit, 1 Green's Law Repors, 182,
the Supreme Court of New Jersey decided, that a deed made
by the commissioners in partition proceedings to any other person than the one reported as purchaser, was void.
In .consequence of this decision, the heirs of Edmund Kearney instituted actions of ejectment in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey, in order to recover
the property; whereupon, the company applied to the legislature for relief.
In March, 1841, the legislature passed an act which recited
that deeds were sometimes made to other persons than the reported purchasers, and then declared as follows: " See. 1. Be it enacted by the Council and General' Assembly of this State, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of
the same, that, upon proof being made to the satisfactlon of the
court or jury before whom any such deed or conveyance may be
offered in evidence, that the lands or real estate therein mentioned were sold fairly and without fraud, and that su. deed
or conveyance was made and executed in good faith, and for a
sufficient consideration, and with the consent of the persorn or
persons reported to the court as the'purchasei or purchasers, the
said deed or conveyance shall have the same force and effect as
though the same had been made and executed to the purchaser
or purchasers reported to the court."
In October, 1841, the bill in this cause was filed by the heirs
of Edmund Kearney, charging a fraudulent combination between Daniel Holmes, Joseph Taylor, Leonard Walling, James
Hopping, John L Taylor, and others named in th3- bill, for the
purpose of bring about a compulsory sale of the Key Grove
estate, with a view to establishing a seaport town orr a Dvart
thereof; that, to that end, Holmes made the putchase of James
P. Kearney, instituted the proceedings in partition, and, through
the fraudulent coperation of Joseph Taylor, the guardian, and
Leonard Walling and James Hopping, two of the commissioners, and Primrose Hopping, the crier, and others confederating
with them, wrongfully and fraudulently brought about, under
pretext and color of law, a sale of the entire estate, under the
proceedings in partition. The bill makes a case of fraud in
facti as well as bf fraud in law, growing out of the fiduciary
relations which the guardian and commissioners and auctioneer

SUPREME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

respectively bastained to the estate and to the heirs to whom it
belongs. The prayer is for an account of the proceeds of all
wood and timber cut from the six lots ccnveyed by the commissioners to John I. Taylor; for an injunction to restrain
waste; that the conveyance to John I. Taylor, and the sale of
these lots by the commissioners, be declared void; and for other
relief.
Extracts from the answers of the principal defendants have
already been given.
In April, 1842, the trial at law of the ejectment came on before Judges Baldwin and Dickenson; and the court held that,
under the provisions of the act of 1841, the defendant must
prove -thatthere was no fraud of any kind in the sale, in'order
to av ail himself of the provisions of the act; but the jury not
agreeing, no verdict was rendered in the case.
Whilst the present suit was pending, viz. on the 14th of
February, 1844, the legislature passed a private act, entitled
"An act to confirm the sales of the real estate whereof Edmund
Kearney, deceased, late of the county of Monmouth, died
seised.'"
This act recitedl the circumstances of the sale, and that
doubts had ariseh respecting the title to the lots, and then declared:
" Section 1. Be it enacted by the council and general assembly of this State, -and.it is hereby enacted by the authority of
the same, that the several deeds, so given by the said commissioners ,for the said several lots, shall be deemed and taken, and
the'same are hereby declared to be valid and effectual in law,
to convey the estate therein and thereby intended to be conveyed; and that the said deeds, or any of them, and all subsequent conveyances of the said estate, or any part thereof, shall
not be impeached in any court whatever for any such alleged
interest in the said commissioners, or any of them, in the property so sold by them, as aforesaid, or fo' any alleged defect
or informality in the execution of the powers of the said commissioners, or in th6 proceedings of the said orphans' court;
and. that the said deeds, or any of them, shall not be invalidated
or impeached upon any other ground than that of absolute,
direct, .and actual fraud on the part of the said commissioners."
The defendants then filed a supplemental answer, averring
that there was no fraud, and praying to be allowed the benefit
of this act; and also filed a cross bill, the proceedings under
which it is not material to notice in this report.
In September, 1861, the Circuit Court decreed that the bill
should be dismissed with costs, from which decree the complainants appealed to this court.

DECEM1BER TERMI, 1853.

505

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

It was argued by Mr. Converse and 111r. Ewing, for the appellants, and by It. Dayton and ir. Johnson, for the appellees.
The arguments of the counsel OIL both sides were directed,
in a great measure to an examination of the facts in the case,
as disclosed in the answers and evidence.
The points of law for the appellants were the following:
L That the courts of the United States, having full jurisdiction of the case conferred on them by the Constitution, and the
case being actually pending in the Circuit Court, the legislature
of New Jersey bad no power, by private act or special edict,
enacted or pronounced while the case was so pending, to interfere with or to control the decision of the United States court
therein. That it could not itself directly pronounce or. dictate
to the court what judgment it should pronounce in the case;
nor could it, by.changing the principles of law, or the rules of
evidence governing it, by such special edict, indirectly make or
control the judgment or decree of the court; and that, such
being the purport and end of the act of February 14, 1844, the
same is void.
IL That there was actual fraud by the commissioners in the
execution of their trust, and that, if we admit the special act
of February 14, 1844, to be valid, the sale and. aonveyance,
made by the commissioners to themselves and their partners,
are void under its provisions.
III. That material recitals, in the preamble to that act, appear to be false; and, it being a private act, and the legislature
deceived, and induced by false pretences to pass it, it is void.
I. re contend, then, that the act of February 14, 1844, is
void; and,
1st. Because it violates the 22d article of the constitution of
New Jersey, which declares that the common law of England
shall remain in force in that State, until altered "by a future
law of the legislature."
This act is not a law, but a mere legislative edict interposed
between two parties litigant, directing what manner of decree
shall be made between them - a taking the property from one
and giving it to the other. To be a law, it must be general a rule affecting property, generally, in like circumstances. This
act is in violation of the principles of the common law, and,
not being itself a Jaw, is therefore void. 1 Black. Com. 44, 138;
Taylor v. Porter, 4 Hill, N. Y. Rep. 140; Regents of University
of Maryland v. Williams, 9 Gill & Johns. 412; Ervine's Appeal, 16 Penn. State Rep. 257; McNutt v. Bland, 2 How. 1617; Webster v. Cooper, 14 Id. 503; Proprietors of Kennebeck
VOL. XV.

43

506

SUPREME COURT.
K'earxey et al. v. Taylpr et a.

v. Laboree et A. 2 Greenl. Rep. 288-295; Attorney-General v.
Stevens, 1 Saxton's N. Jer. R. 369, 380. 'See further authorities,

post, p. 23.
2d. It also violates that clause of the same article of the constitution of New Jersey which declares, "that the inestimable
right of trial by jury shall remain conflrraed, as a part of the
law of this colony, without repeal, for ever." Scudder v. Trenton Delaware Falls, 1 Saxton,- N. Jer. 696, 726, 727; Arrowsmith.v; Burlingim, 4 McLean, 489; Embury v. Conner, 3
lbomstok, 511, 516, 517; Benson v. Mayor, &c. 10 Barbour,
S. C. 223,224; People v. White, 11 Id. S. 0. 26,30; Parkman v.
-Justices, 9 Georgia, 341, 349, 350, 351; McLeod v. Burrough4
9 Id. 213, 215, 216; Va zant v. Waddle, 2 Yerg. 260, 269, 270,
271; Walley v. Kennedy, 2 Id. 554,555, 556; Jones v. Perry,
10 Id. 59, 71, 72; Holden v. James, 11 Mass. 396; Hake v.
Henderson,.4 Dev. N. Car. 15; 2Kent, 1-13 and note (b) p. 13,
and-note p. 4.
3d. This act, not being a lav-, is'not to be regarded as a rule
of -decision in the courts of the United States, under the provisions of the 34th section of the judiciary act, even ' in a trial
at common law."
4th. It violates the 2d section of the 4th article of the Constitution of the United States, which declares, "that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and
immunities of the citizens in the several States."
This act is a special edict against citizens of States, other
than New Jersey, divesting them of their inheritance, or laying
down special rules applicable to their, estate only, which may
have that effect. If the act were general against all parties,
citizens of 6ther States, who might hold property so circumstanced, it would be, clearly unconstitutional. We think the
objection loses none of its fore because the act is special, and
applied to a single case. It declhes that the property of these
parties, who. are citizens of other -States, shall not be entitled
to the protection which the la vs of the State extend to the property of its own citizens. 4 Johns. Cl.- Rep. 430.
5th, It is against-the spirit, if not the letter, of the 2d section
of the 3d article of the Constitution of the United States,
which gives to the courts of the United States jurisdiction in
all cases "between citizens of different States."
I The national tribunal would be, in effect, ousted of its jurisiction, and the citizens of other States deprived of its protectioni if the State legislatuie could interpose, pending the case,
and, by special edict, pronounce a decree, or lay down new
principles of law and new rules of evidence for that case alone,
which would dictate to and control the court in the decree it

DECEMBER TEIRM

1853.

507

Learney et al. v. Taylor et al.

should pronounce. This would defeat the end and purpose of
this provision of the Constitution. For every one is aware that
the citizens of other States are much safer from injustice and
wrong where their rights are adjudicated by the judiciary,. than
the leoislature of a State. United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch,
15; Ogden v. Blacklege, 2 Cranch, 194; Suydam v. Broadnax,
14 Pet. 67, 74, 75; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Id. 751.
6th. The right to pass an act such as this is inconsistent with
a republican, constitutional government, or any government
with limited powers, for it deprives the citizen of one of his absolute rights -the possession and enjoyment of property. It
is admissible only in a purely Asiatic despotism. People v.
Supervisors of Westchester, 4 Barb. S. C. Rep. 64; Norman v.
Heist, 5 Watts & Serg. 171; Bumberger v. Clippenger, 5 Id.
311; Ervine's Appeal, 16 Penn. State Rep. 257.
IL We contend that there was actual fraud by the commissioners in the -execution of their trust; and if we admit the
special act of February 14, 1844, to be valid, the sale ahd conveyance made by the commissioners to themselves and their
partners are void.
A trustee who becomes a purchaser of the trust estate is, in
the estimation of law, a fraudulent purchaser; and, because of
the temptation and opportunity to commit fraud, and the ease
with which he can cover it from detection such purchase is of
itself a fraud, and a title procured under it is void, at the option
of the cestui que trust.
The, special act of February 14, 1844, declares that this sale
and the deeds made under it, "shall be valid in law," unless
"impeached for absolute, direct, and actual fraud." It does not,
however, require this court to change the rules of evidence applicable in all like cases, where the question is, whether there
was or was not actual fraud on the part of the trustee in dealing with the property and funds of his cestui que trust. The
special act merely relieves the trustee from the judgment of law
consequent upon their purchase. It leaves all incidental questions open, to be dealt with according to general principles
And the trustees stand in an inauspicious relation to the property; they are vendors of the estate of others, and they are
purchasers for themselves; a court of equity -ill, therefor , examine their acts with jealous caution, and in dubious matters
it can allow them the benefit of no favorable presumption. Michaud v. Girod, 4 How. 503.
And if the trustees have resorted to artifice or falsehood to
conceal their interest; or if, contrary to their duty, they have
retained the trust fund, and used it for their own benefit or that
of their friends; or if they combined with others to prevent in-

SUPREME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

vestigation, or to postpone accountability, they will be held
chargeable with actual fraud.
1st. Two of the commissioners, Leonard Walling and James
Hopping, were undoubted partners at the time the sale was reported to the court; if not so, by a secret understanding among
themselves on the day of sale. But to cover and conceal their
interest and that of the guardian, Joseph Taylor, they reported
to the court that Ezra Osborn was the purchaser of lots 5, 6,
and 10; Isaac K. Lippincott of lots 7 and 9, and Richard S.
Burrowes of lot No. 8; which report was false.
And in the deed which they executed to John I. Taylor, April
1st, 1830, they recite that Osborn, Lippincott, and Burrowes,
bid off lots 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, for John I. Taylor, as his agent,
which recital was false, and, together with the conveyance to
him, intended to conceal their interest in the purchase.
This falsehood and concealment was for their own advantage.
lad they reported the sale and the parties in interest truly to
ae court, it could not have been confirmed.
2d. They retained the trust fund for a long time in iheir hands,
and used it for the benefit of themselves and their families.
No costs appear to have been taxed fn .the case; and the
amount is left to conjecture. We suppose that $341.19 will be
more than sufficiernt to cover them. This deducted will reduce
the net proceeds of sale to $19,600.
(The counsel then went into a long examination of the State
of the accounts, which is omitted.)
3d. In order the better to secure to themselves the use of the
trust fund, and to enable them t6 purchase and improve a portion of the estate with its proceeds, the commissioners associated
themselves, and combined with Joseph Taylor, the guardian of
four of the minor children and heirs, and through his connivance
and participation avoided investigation and postponed accountability.
The record shows that, from April 1st, 1830, to April 1st,
1831, there was in the hands of the commissioners and guardian,
$6,025.29
.
.......
. ...
of the funds of the estate
From April 1st, 1831, to April 1st, 1832 . .. . . 10,017.5C
There is no evidence in the record that any part of this fune
passed out of the hands of the members of the partnership prior
to the 7th of April, 1837. The record shows that there did certainly remain in their hands, until the last named date, at least
$7,994.59.
The estate was thus made to pay for itself and improve itself;
and it is not surprising that one of the partners (Primrose Hopping) testifies that he never paid any thing on his purchase, and
that John Hopping does not know when, where, or to whom
he paid.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

509

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

It is not at all probable that either of the commissioners, or
their brothers, or the guardian, his son,, or son-in-law, ever paid
a dollar towards their purchase.
The proceeds of the estate could not have been thus held to
pay for the estate without combination between the commissioners and guardian.
4th. We will endeavor to show, that the report of the commissioners that the premises could not be divided without great
prejudice to the interest of the owners was untrue, and induced
by a purpose to possess themselves of a portion of the property,
There were seven shares. The commissioners divided the property into fifteen parts before making their report that it could
not be divided.
5th. There was a controversy at the bidding, which -v as first decided by Primrose Hopping, a secret partner; and afterwards, on
appeal, by the commissioners, (two of them, as we think we have
shown,) also secret partners. It was decided in their own favor.
IIL The recitals of the act of February 14th, 1844, show thai
the legislature was decided, and passed the act under a mistake
as to the facts. McIntire Poor School v. Zanesville Canal and
Manuf. Co. 9 Hammond's Ohio Rep. 289-290; 2 Black. Com:
345-6.
1st. The act contemplates that the deed which it confirms
had been made to a party to whom the interest in the property
had been transferred, for a valuable consideration -not to a person who received the conveyance to conceal the interest of
others.
2d. The combination between the commissioners *and the
guardian to unite in the purchase of the estate - acombination
fraudulent in itself-was not made known to the legislature.
3d. The sale and conveyance by the commissioners were not
made in good faith. There were suppressio veri and suggestio
falsi in all their several papers relating to both.
4th. The purchase-money was not honestly and fully paid to
the persons entitled.
The counsel for the appellees bestowed a great deal of attention upon the act passed by the legislature of 1844. 'Having
given the views of the opposite counsel upon this p6fift, it is
proper to state also the views taken by the counsel for the appellees.
The act of March, 1841, required proof, to the satisfaction of
the court or jury, that the lands were sold fairly and without
fraud -that the deed was executed in good faith, for a sufficient consideration, and with the consent of reported purchasers.
The obvious meaning of this act, as we contended, was actual

510

SUPREME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

fraud, actual good 'faith. It was so understood by the legislature, and so understood by the remonstrants, who opposed it
to the last.
Yet Judge Baldwin ruled, in effect, that our condition was
made worse rather than better by this act. He said, first, that
the act was a legislative recognition of Doe v. Lambert; second,
that we must convince both court and jury that there was no
fraud; third, that the act did not designate the character of
fraud, which was to affect such deeds; thAt in consequence, all
fraud, actual or legal, would vitiate the deed; that if the commissioners were interested in the sale, (before their duties were
discharged,) however innocent or ignorant, or however large the
price and fair the sale, it was a fraud in law, and vitiated the
deed.
This opinion of Judge Baldwin, involved a necessity for further legislation. Notice of application for a private law, was
published six weeks in the Monmouth Democrat, (in the county
where the lands lie,) under a rule of the house. The bill, after
such notice, was introduced and passed into a law, 14th February, 1844.
First. Does that act confict with the Constitution of New
Jersey or the United States?
&cond. Was there "absolute, direct, and actual fraud on the
part of said commissioners ?"
Another point is made by the answer to the cross bill, to wit:
Third. Was the act of 1844 a fraud on the legislature, and
can it be avoided for that cause?
1. Does the act of 1844 violate the Constitution of New
Jersey ?
The act is purely remedial. It relieves against a technical exception, to wit, the making ofa deed to a person other than the
bidder; and it relieves from a legal or constructive fraud, (if
there be any,) though nat from actual fraud. It is important to
remember that even if the commissioners did become interested
(which is expressly denied) the deed was not void, but voidable
only by the heirs, and them only. Den v. McKnight, 6 Hal. IL
386. And equity even then would put them on terms.
Our constitution, July 2d, 1776, gives plenary powers of
legislation. Nothing is reserved from their power except the
rights of conscience and trial by jury.
New Jersey had no bill of rights. Her constitution did not
even separate the legislative and judicial departments of government. There was no provision against interference with vested
rights or against retrospective laws. 1 Kent's CoU. 448; 3 Story
on Cont. 266; Bennett v. Boggs, 1 Bald. C. R. 74; Bonaparte v.
C. & A. R. R. Co. Id. 220., Under her constitution of 1776 her

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

511

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

courts and jurists have even held her power of legislation absolute, as of British Parliament So much of the common and
statute law of England was adopted as theretofore in use in the
province, and until changed. See. 22 of constitution of 1776.
The act of 1844 did not violate the common law. Private
acts are a common-law assurance or conveyance. So treated in
British legislation. 5 Cruise Dig. p. 1 to 15; title "Private
Acts." It shows that, Parliament legislated by private acts as
extensively as we do.
But if the common law were otherwise, the constitution of
New Jersey adopted so much thereof only as had been in use
in the province. This principle had not been in use.
Where a power to lbgislate and cure defects has been long
exercised, as in the past history of New Jersey, it is the strongest evidence of its existence. Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky,
11 Pet. 257; State v. Mayhew, 2 Gill, 487.
Commencing after the srrender by the proprietors of New
Jersey of the powers of government in 1702, we have a series of
these remedial acts of the most extended character.
The following public acts are still on the statute book.
(Then followed a reference to fifty-nine private acts.)
This long list of private acts shows the constant exercise of
legislative power over wills, deeds, partitions, trusts, and other
cases. They do not cure the evidence merely, but in many
cases make the law to meet the case; affecting legal interests
vested in minors, married women, and others, in various forms
and -without n-,sent. I may add here that all the adjoining
States and Congress itself has passed -many such remedial acts,
confirming land titles, &c. 14 Pet. 353, 382.
3. The restriction in the constitution in behalf of trial by jury
is not violated. The object of this act was to cure a mere legal
fraud, (if any) not that actual fraud, or fraud in fact, of which
the jury is the judge. It determines a principle, not a fact, and
it leaves trial by jury as it was.
Further, "trial by jury," spoken of in that constitution, refers
only to such trial by jury as had been theretofore practised in
the colony. It is evident, from previous as Well as subsequent
legislation herein before referred to, that trial by jury must have
been ever held in this colony, subject to such power of legislation. There are many cases of civil right where trial by jury is
directly taken away; as in appraisement of lands taken for
public purposes; it was so before the adoption of the constitution of 1776. It was so under the proprietary government. Learn
& Spi. 440. Also under the royal government. Allison's Laws
of New Jersey, 273, sec. 3. Also since the constitutioh o 1776.
Saxton Ch. P. 694. Scudder v. Trenton Delaware Falls Co.
and
ges cited there.

512

SUPREME COUR3,T.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

4. This law does not encroach on the judicial department, (if
it shall be thought that by the theory of our government, without constitutional provision, these departments are distinct.)
The act does not declare what the law was theretofore, but
what it shall be in future, and it applies such law to existing
cases, or in other words, affects existing xights. It comes back
to the same question, viz. the power of the legislature as respects rights vested in law, though subject to certain equities. It
is not a judicial act to rectify a bad sale. Wilkinson v. Leland,
2 Peters, 660.
All that class of laws which are held void as encroachments
on the judicial departments of government, are aside the question. But aside from this, where there is no constitutional restriction, as in New Jersey, the legislature may, in some qualified
degree, exercise judicial power, &c. 2 Root, 350 ; 3 Dal. 386;
3 Greenl. 334, and the acts hereinbefore cited, shows that New
Jersey has always done so. There is nothing in the Constitution
of the United States against it. 3 Story oil Cont. 266, 267.
5. The next and a principal point is, as to the question whether the act conflicts with the Constitution of the United States.
Does it destroy the obligation of a contract?
All else ends in arguments looldii to the propriety of such
special legislation.
The object of this law is not to disturb or impair contracts,
buLt enforce them. The'commissioners who sold, were the agents
of the court. They sold and received the pur~hiase-money in
full, and made a deed. This law is to enforce that contract.
It confirms existing rights only ini favor of the purchaser, who
paid his money.
The heirs became seised, it is said, .by reason of the defective
character of the proceedings; but such scisin was subject to an
equity, which this act recognizes and enforces. 1 Kent, Com. 455;
Goshen v. Stonnington, 4 Conn. R. 209; Langdon v. Strong,
2 Vermont R. 234; 3 Story on Cont. 267; Underwood v.
Lilly, 10 Serg. & Rawle, 97; Beade v. Walker, 6 Conn. R.
190; Booth v. Booth, 7 Tb. 350; 3 McLea-a, 212; 7 Blaclf. 474;
8 lass. 472-9; Ib. 360; 27 Har. & Johnson, 230; 6 Gill &
Johnson, 461; 3 Scamnion, 443.
A court of equity often exercises this power in favor of him
who pays the purc4ase-money. This law does no more. It
only says, a deed made by request of the purchasers to Jbhn L
Taylor, as their agent, shall be good.
Legislation often does what a court of' equity may do; and
to control property of infants, and order sale of their estates and
deeds therefor, is or was of contant occurrence. See acts hereinbefore cited, and 15 Wend. 436; 20 Wend. 365.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

513

Rearney et a!. v. Taylor et al.

There were many such acts before the adoption of the Constitution of the United States; and that instrument did not
mean to destroy remedial State legislation. *We must look to
the histoiy of the times for its meaning, if doubtful. Rhode Island v. Iassachusetts, 12 Peters, 557.
The Supreme Court of the United States has repeatedly held
such acts valid, and that too even after judgment. Satterlee v.
Matthewson, 2 Peters, 380; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 lb. 657,
661; Calder and wife v. Bull and wife, 3 Dallas, 386; Watson
et al. v. Mercer, 8 Peters, 98, 108; Charles R. Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Tb. 420; Watkins v. Holman, 16 lb. 62; 3 Story's
Con.on C. 266, collects cases up to 2 Peters; Bennett v. Bogs,
Baldwin's R. 74 ; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 67, 134.
Dicta in this case reviewed in later cases above cited.
Second Point. Was there "a b solute, direct, and actual fraud
on the part of said commissioners ?"
Outside of the pleadings, this had been heretofore scarcely
pretended. The evidence is all the other way.
The charges of fraud in the original bill are of the grossest
character. The answers, which are directly responsive, are evidence.
Edward Taylor is the only surviving commissioner. He has
answered fully, and been likewise sworn as a witness. He
denies all fraud on the part of the commissioners, and, says the
property brought more than it was worth, in his judgment, and
more than it would bring in the same condition at that time
(April, 1844.)
The company who bought the lots in question, were Daniel
Holmes, Ezra Osborn, Isaac K. Lippincott, Richard C. Burrowes, Horatio N. Kearney, Septimus Stephens.
They all answer, expressly denying a!' fraud, except Stephens,
who declined his share, and died before any question. Horatio
N. Kearriey was the brother and one of the heirs, and has answered, disclaiming any knowledge of fraud at the time.
The answers and evidence show, ii' brief, this state of facts.
Edward Kearney died in 1822. His whole personal estate
was but $1,080.33. His real estate was 781 acres of light
sandy land, 431 of which only were cleared --which had been
in possession of himself and ancestors for many years.
In 1829, there were living six children, I think, interested in
the estate, of whom three or four were minors, and three of these
minors were girls, with no means of support.
One of the children had sold his entire share (one-seventh) to
Daniel Holmes, for $1,600.
The highest price any witness has put on the whole real estate
was $15,000. It rented for nany years prior to the sale for
$260 to $300 only.

514

SUPREME QOURT.
Kearnoy et al. v. Taylor et al.

Holmes applied for a partition, and commissioners having reported it could not be divided without preiudice, they were or.
dered to sell.
The laws of New Jersey required only that the commissioners should advertise in one newspaper in the county where the
lands lie. They did, in addition, advertise in twvo newspapers
in the City of New York, and had 100 large puffing handbills set up, showing the advantages of the property. There
was a large attendance on the sale, and the property brought
$19,941.19.
The money was paid, and the heirs have had the benefit of it.
Every witness who had been examined says the sale was fair,
and the price much exceeded public expecttion, and was more
than Horatio Kearney, one of the heirs, said it was worth.
The judgment of the company, who bought lots 5 to 10, inclusive, may be gathered from the disposition they made of their
shares at different times afterwards. Holmes, the prime mover,
.sold his interest to Joseph Taylor for a net profit of $26. Burrowes sold his to Osborn for $40. Horatio Kearney sold his to
Bray for $40. Stephens backed out, and Lippincott says the
company have saved themselves from actual loss on the pur.
chase only by the earnings of certain vessels they have since run
in connection.
, Yet after the gross charges of fraud and speculation in their
bill, made -without knowledge, were fully met both by answers
and by evidence, these same charges are recklessly repeated,
again and again, in the answer to the cross bill, but without the
slightest evidence to sustain them.
I cannot, in the mere statement of points, comment on the
evidence in detail, but commend this part of the case to the
careful examination of the court. It will shbw clearly there
was no actual fraud on the part of the commissioners.
Third Paint. Was the act of 1844, a frau6. on the legislature?
1. The first answer is, if it were so, the party can't get clear
of it in this way. No case can be found, t) show by evidence
aliunde a law void because the legislature did not know what
it was about.
2. The legislature understood the whole qc.estion. Six weeks'
notie? of the application was given.
The evidence of iAfr. Sullivan shows his remonstrance was
read and filed, with all its charges of fraud, before the act in the
House of Assembly was referred to the judiciary committee.
Yet afterwards the act passed unanimously. And a reference
to the legislative journal of council of same year,: shows it
passed the other branch of the legislature, also upon the ayes
and noes, unanimously.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

515

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

Besides this, Mr. Sullivan immediately filed his petition for
repeal, and it was at once referred to the judicary committee. The council journal shows, after full consideration, it was
unanimously denied.
No private law has ever passed our legislature after a more
full and thorough discussion. The minutes of these bodies are
referred to, as evidence by TIr. Sullivan, the witness, counsel,
and attorney at law, and in fact, on part of the complainants.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey.
The bill was filed in the court below by the heirs of Edmund
Kearney, deceased, against the defendants, to set aside a sale of
a part of a farm descended to them, situate on Raritan Bay, in
New Jersey, under an order of the Orphans' Court in that State,
in a case of partition, a sale having been ordered upon the
ground that partition could not be made without prejudice to the
interest of the heirs. The farm, consisting of some seven hundred and eighty-one acres, was divided by the commissioners
iilto fifteen allotments, preparatory to the sale, and which sold
for the aggregate price of $19,911.19. The bill seeks to set
aside six of these allotments, Nos. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, embracing about two hundred and eleven acres, and which sold for the
aggregate sum of $4,683.15. At the time of the application to
the Orphans' Court for the partition, April term, 1829, there
were seven surviving heirs of the estate, four of whom were
minors. Daniel and John W. Holmes, who had purchased
some year previously the interest of James P. Kearney, one of
the heirs, made the application for the partition. The act of
New Jersey, conferring the powers upon the Orphans' Court,
provides that the application may be made by the heirs, for any
person claiming under them, and further, that if, in the opinion
of the commissioners, partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to- the owners, and on satisfactory proof to the court
of the same, a sale of the premises shall be ordered.
It is not material to refer particularly to the proceedings before the Orphans' Court, as we do not understand that any
serious question has been made upon them. It has, indeed,
been objected that no personal notice of the application, or of
any of the proceedings before the court, was given to the heirs,
whether adults or minors; and also, that no guardian ad litem
was appointed for the latter. But, it is conceded, neither of
these steps, however judicious, and proper for the purpose of
protecting the interest of the parties concerned, are required by
the statute of New Jersey or practice of the court.

SUPREIE

COURT.

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

The main ground relied upon for setting aside the sale, is to
be found in the allegations and proofs of fraud in the proceedings that took place at the comrhissioners' sale of the premises,
under the order of the court. It is claimed that this sale is void,
and should be set aside, on the ground of either actual or constructive fraud, or both. -This sale took place in November,
1829, and was confirmed by the court on the report of the commissioners thti January term following.
Deeds of c)nveyance were made of the premises sold in the
month of April thereafter, when one half o: the purchase-money
was paid; the remaining half has been since paid in pursuance
of the conditions of sale, and order of'the Orphans' Court; and
the whole of the purchase-money received by the heirs. All of
them, except three, became of age as early as at, or before, September, 1831. Another became of age in 1834. This bill was
filed October, 1841, some twelve years since the sale took place,
and eleven since most of the purchase-money was paid. Actions of ejectment had been brought in the early part of that
year, the precise date is not given.
The case has increased very much in importance since the
sale by the commissioners in 1829, on account of the large and
valuable erections and improvements made upon that part of
the premises which is sought to be reccvered. A town has
sprung up on the bay, called Key Port, containing a population
of several hundred inhabitants, with their dwellings, public edifices, docks, or wharves; and a great portion of the property
has passed into the hands of bond fide purchasers.
These six lots were purchased at the commissioners' sale by
a company organized pending the sale, and who made the purchase with a view to the laying out an6. establishment of a
town at that point on the bay; and after the confimationf by
the court in the name of the bidders, it was agreed between all
persons interested in the purchase, and the commissioners, that
these lots should be conveyed to John I. Taylor, one of the
company, in trust for the owners,.on account of thq greater convenience in granting town lots, after the town should be laid
out and these lots put into the market. The deed was executed
accordingly. But, it appears that some two years subsequent
to this conveyance, it was decided by the Supreme Court of
New Jersey, (1 Greene's R. 182,) that a deed made by the commissioners in partition to any one, other thalt the-person reported
as the purchaser, was void. The law was supposed to be otherwise in New Jersey down to this decision, as it is in several of
the States. 5 Page, 620; 1 Dana, 261; 2 Dev. & B. 103; 11
Id. 616. . The title was first attacked solely on account of this
flaw. It led to the iAstitution of the'actionk. of ejectment. The

DECEMBER TERMI, 1853.

517

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

defendants, however, applied to the legislature for relief, and in
March, 1841, a general act was passed, providing, upon proof
being made to the satisfaction of the court or jury before whom
such deed was offered in evidence, that the lands were sold
fairly, and without fraud, and the deed executed in good faith,
and for a sufficient consideration; and with the consent of the
persons reported as purchasersf tie deed should have the same
effect as though it had been made to the purchaser.
This act, as is admitted, is unobjectionable, and cured this
defect in the deed; and the case, therefore, is brought down to
the simple question of fraud, actual or constructive, at the commissioners' sale.
The whole of the evidence to be found in the record, except
what may be derived from the pleadings, bearing upon this
-question, consists in notes of the testimony taken by the counsel in two trials in the ejectment suits, the one in October,
1842, and the other, in April, 1844. These notes, being an
abridgment of the testimony of the witnesses at these trials,
are not always free from obscurity and doubt as to the meaning,
and having been taken by the opposing counsel are, in some
instances, inconsistent, and contradictory. But, upon an attentive examination of them, and making all due allowance for the
circumstances under -which they were taken, we are satisfied,
the clear weight of the evidence is against the charge of actual
fraud in the proceedings before the Orphans' Court, or in the
commissioners' sale.
An attempt was made on the argument to impeach the good
faith of the report of the commissioners, which recommended a
sale of the property instead of making partition. But it is not
pretended, that the repqrt contained any facts bearing upon this
question which were untrue or had the effect to mislead the
judgment of the court. The law authorizes a sale, when the
land is so circumstanced, that, in the opinion of the commissioners, partition cannot be made without geat prejudice to the
owners, and upon satisfactory proof of that fact being made to
the court. The commissioners caused a survey, and mnap of
the premises to be made which accompanied their report, and
they express the opinion, aftei an examination of the saine; the
partition could not be made -without injury to tie owners. We
may presume the judges had satisfactory evidence before them
that this opinion was well founded before they granted the
order of sale; for, until some facts are shown going to impeach
it, and with which the commissioners or parties interested were
privy, such is the legal effect of the order.
Besides, if this question could be regarded as an open one
now, in the absence of any evidence going to impeach tile order
VOL. XV.

44

518

SUPREME

COURT.

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.
of the Orphans' Court, the result would not be changed; for
every witness examined on the subject concurs in the opinion
that the farm could not. have been divided among the heirs
without great prejudice to their interest.
By the law of New Jersey, and the order of the court, the
commissioners were required to give sixty do.ys' notice of the sale,
by posting advertisements in five of the most public places, and
publishing the same in one newspaper in the county. The commissioners, in conjunction with Joseph Taylor, the guardian of
the infant children, in addition to this notice, caused the sale
to be published in two newspapers in the city of New York,
and also published and circulated some one hundred handbills
throughout the country. The greatest pains seem to have been
taken to give the widest publicity of the day and place of sale,
and to secure the-fullest attendance of bidders. The farm was
divided into fifteen allotments, and, according to the evidence,
in the most judicious manner for the purposes of the sale, and
which were struck off, not only at full prices, but at prices considerably exceeding the highest estimate of those well acquainted
with the premises. On this subject the evidence is all one way.
Every witness, to whom the question is put, affirms the fact,
The highest estimate of value is $156,000. The sales amounted to
$19,941.19.
The highest rent the farm had previously b.rought
was $300 per annum, for most of the time it had been rented
for $260. The soil was light, sandy, and unproductive, and it
is agreed, by all the witnesses who speak on the subject, that,
independently of the improvements made since the sale, it
would not, at the time they were speaking, sell for more, if for
as much, as it had brought at the commissioners' sale.
This may account for the circumstance, that the bill of complaint is not filed to set aside the sale of the entire farm, but
only as to that portion of it upon which the large and valuable
improvements have been made, and the parts connected with
it; as, independently of these, therp can be no inducement to
disturb the sale. Success would be rather a misfortune.
The reason why the premises sold for some $5000 over the
estimates and expectations of those best acquainted with them,
was owing to the fact, that some enterprising men in the neighborhood foresaw that the Raritan Bay, at that point, was capable of being made a port of some business; and that, by an
expenditure of sufficient capital to accomplish this, a town
might be built up, which would afford a remruneration for the-outlay, and the port afford convenience and facilities to the people
of that neighborhood, as well as, probably, add something to the
value of their property. The practicability of this scheme was
the inducement held out by the commissioners and guardian of

DECEMBER TERM, 1853..

519

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

the infants, and persons immediately interested in the property, to
the purchasers; and, as is manifest upon the proof, furnished
the leading motive for competition in the biddings at the sale.
This enterprise, however, required a considerable outlay of capital in the construction of docks, or wharves, and in the erection
of a warehouse, and other edifices, for the accommodation of
the public, beyond the means of any individual in that somewhat retired locality, or of any one who might be inclined to
take an interest in it. To overcome this difficulty, those interested in the sale, and who were desirous the property should
bring the highest price, exerted themselves to form an association or company, composed of persons in the neighborhood who
had a common and general interest in the object in view, viz.
the building up of this little port and town, for the purpose of
bidding in the property, and engaging in the enterprise. Holmes,
the owner of one seventh, H. N. Kearney, one of the heirs, and
Joseph Taylor, the guardian of the minors, were more or less
active in getting up this association, and no doubt with the
knowledge and approbation of the commissioners.
There was, also, another circumstance that operated in the
formation of this company. A -little port and town had sprung
up at a neighboring point on the bay called Middletown point;
and it was given out that the people of this town had associated
to bid off the site of this new one at the sale, in contemplation
and with a view to prevent a rival place of business in that
vicinity.
Under these circumstances, the company in question was
formed, and bid at the sale in competition with the Middletown
point aspociation; and, 'being the highest bidders, the property
was struck off to them.
There are some cases deriving their principles from the severe
doctrines of Bexwell v. Christie, Cowp. 396, and Howard v.
Castle, 6 T. R. 642, to be found in books of high authority in
this country, that would carry us the length of avoiding this
sale, simply on the ground of -this association having been
formed for the purpose of bidding off the premises, for the reason that all such associations fend to prevent competition, and
thereby to a sacrifice of the property. 3 Johns. Cases, 29; 6
Johns. Rep. 194; 8 Id. 444; 13'Id. 112; 2 Ham. 505; 5 Halst.
87; .2 Kent, 539; 1 Story's Eq. Jur.  293. Later cases, however, have qualified this doctrine, by tak;ng a more practical
view of the subject and principles iivolved, and have placed it
upon ground more advantageous to all persons interested in the
property, while at the same time affording all proper protection
against combinations to prevent competition. 2 Dev. 126; 3
Mete. 384; 25 Maine Rep. 140; 2 Const. Rep. (S. C.) 821; 3
Ves. 625; 12 Id. 477; 11 Serg. & Rawle, 86.

520

SUII EME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

It is true that in every association formed to bid at the sale,
and who appoint one of their number to bid in behalf of the
company, there is tn agreement, express or implied, that no
other member will participate in the bidding; and hence, in one
sense, it may be said to have the effect to prevent competition.
But it by no means necessarily follows that if the association
had not been formed, and each member laft to bid on his own
account, that the competition at the sale would be as strong and
efficient as it would by reason of the joint bid for the benefit
and upon the responsibility of all. The property at stake might
bh. beyond the means of the individual, cr might absorb more
of them than he would desire to invest in the article, or be of a
description that a mere capitalist, without practical men as associates, would not wish to encumber himself with. Mluch of
the property of the country is in the hands of incorporated or
joint-stock companies; the business in which they are engaged
being of a magnitude requiring an outlay of capital that can
be net only by associated wealth., Railroads, canals, ship channels, manufacturing establishments, the erection of towns, and
improvement of harbors, are but a few of the instances of private
enterprise illustrating the truth of our remark. It is apparent that
if, for any cause, any one of these or of similar masses of property, should be brought to the stake, competition at the sales
could be maintained only by bidders representing similar companies, or associations of individuals of competent means.
Property of this description cannot be divided, or separated into
fragments and parcels, so as to bring the sale within the means
of individual bidders. The value consists in its entirety, and in
the use of it for the purposes of its original erection; and the
capital necessary for its successful enjoyment must be equal
not only to purchase the structures, establishments, or works,
but sufficient to -employ them for the uses and purposes for
which they were originally designed.
These observations are sufficient to show that the doctrine
which would prohibit associations of individuals to bid at the
legal public sales of property, as preventing competition, however specious in theory, is too narrow and limited for the practical business of life, and would oftentimes lead inevitably to
the evil consequences it was intended to avoid. Instead of encouraging competition, it would destroy it. Afd sales, in many
instances, could be effected only after a sacrifice of the value,
until reduced -within the reach of the means of the individual
bidders.
We must, therefore, look beyond the mere fact of an association of persons formed for the purpose of bidding at thi6 sale,
as it may be not only unobjectionable, but oftentimes merito-

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

rious, if not necessary, and examine into the object and purposes
of it; and if, upon such examination, it is found, that the ob.
ject and purpose are, not to prevent competition, but to enable,
or as an inducement to the persons composing it, to participate
in the biddings the sale should be upheld- othenvise if for
the purpose of shutting out competition, and depressing the
sale, so as to obtain the property at a sacrifice.
Each- case must depend upon its own circumstances; the
courts are quite competent to inquire into them, and to ascertain and determine the triae character of each.
Applying these principles to the sale before us, it is quite
clear, upon the evidence, that it should be maintained. The
leading motive of the association, and purchase, was the constructiou of a little port and town upon the bay in their neighborhood, which, it was believed, besides the convenience afforded
to their business transactions. would tend to enhance the value
of the property in the vicinity. The association was composed,
chiefly, of the farmers in the neighborhood, who had not the
means individually to meet the expenses of the enterprise, as the
necessary outlay, to afford any chance of success, would be
considerable. Hence the agreement to join in the purchase
and in the expense. From ten to twelve thousand dollars
were, in point of fact, laid out by the company at an early day,
in the construction of o dock, warehouse, and tavern-house,
with a view to the encouragement of the settlement of the
town. The members composing it did not regard the purchase
as a speculation of any great value at the time, as three of
them sold out their interest soon afterwards at an advance
only of from twenty-five to forty dollars each, and others
withdrew from it. Holmes, one of the most active in getting
it up, sold his interest for $25; and. H. N. Kearney; one of the
heirs, his, for $40. And, as appears from the evidence, none
of the parties concerned in the purchase, and in the building up
of the town, have made profits of any account out of the enterprise. It has been, as a whole, rather an unfortunate concern,
aside from the costs of this litigation, and the chances of losing
the town itself, with all its erections and improvements, as the
final result of it.
The only fortunate parties concerned, are the heirs, who have
realized a very large price for their property- a price which, it
is admitted upon the evidence, it would not sell for at the present time, aside from the new and expensive improvements.
They had rented it, for a series of years, at $260 a year. The
proceeds-of the sale, at interest, produces nearly $1400 per
annum. Each heir had been in the receipt of less than {$40
a year, as his or her share of the rent since the sale, nearly
44*

522

SUPREME COURT.
Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

$200 each, thus receiving an annual income equalling almost, if
not quite, the net entire income of the seven.
We are satisfied that no actual fraud has been shown in the
case, and that the sale cannot be disturbed on this ground.
Then, is the sale void, and liable to be set aside on the ground
of constructive fraud ?
It is said that the commissioners, and guardian of the minor
children, were interested in it, and that from 'the relation in
which they stood to the property, and to the heirs, this interest
infected the purchase with illegality as ma'ter of law, so as to
compel a court of equity to set it aside. Admitting the facts
to be true, the conclusion is not denied. But the answer
Taylor, the
is, the proofs fail to make out the allegation.
guardian, and two of the commissioners, James Hopping and
Leonard Walling, took an interest in the company some three
months and more after the sale, namely, in the February
following. Taylor bought out the interest of Holmes, for which
he gave him an advance of forty dollars, Leonard Walling
took the interest of Stevens, and James Hopping of another of
the members, at The same time. The company were then about
commencing the improvements with a view to the laying out
of the town and construction of the dock or wharf. This is the
first time these persons are spoken of in the evidence as having
any interest in the concern, and these are tie circumstances under which it was taken. The three died so:.e years before the
institution of this or of the ejectment suits, and we have not,
therefore, the benefit of their explanation. Taylor, the guardian,
died in 1836, and Hopping and Walling, the two commissioners, a year or two later. Edward Taylor, the only surviving
commissioner, was examined as a witness'-in the ejectment suit,
and expresses his confident belief that neither of these persons
had any interest in the purchase at the time of the sale, and has
again affirmed the same in his answer to this bill. The fact is
denied in the answers of all the defendants; and there is not
only no proof to contradict it, but affirmative evidence, as we
have seen, sustaining the answers in this :respect. Doubtless,
if these persons were living, and we could have had the benefit
of their own account of the matter, the explanation would have
been more. full and satisfactory. But the circumstance should
not operate to the prejudice of the defendants. The delay in
the commencement of the litigation and in the impeachment of
the conduct of three of the principal parties to the transaction,
until after their decease, is alone attributable to th& complainants. It would be unjust to indulge in presumptions'against the
fairness of their conduct under such circumstances.
It has been said, also, that inasmuch as the trust imposed upon

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

523

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

these commissioners had not expired at the time they becarjae
interested in the company in February, 1830, even admittig
their interest then commenced, the case is still within the principle, forbidding the trustee to purchase. The one half of the
purchase-money was to be received from the purchasers on the
first of April thereafter; and the security to be taken for the remainder. But, we think this conclusion would carry the application of the principle beyond the reason upon which it is
founded. The only consequence of the interest taken in the
purchase by the commissioners at this period was to subject
themselves personally to the first payment of the purchasemoney, which we do not see could operate prejudicially to the
heirs.
It is also said that Primrose Hopping, the auctioneer at the
sale, was interested in the company, and hence a purchaser, and,
that for this reason the sale should be set aside. We are free
to admit, if it clearly appeared that he was one of the association, who bid off the property at the time of the sale, there-would
be very great difficulty in upholding it, even in the absence of
any actual fraud in the case. The reasons for this conclusion
are too obvious to require explanation. We have accordingly
looked with some care and interest into the record, for the purpose of ascertaining whether this allegation is well founded, and
although we regard this as the most doubtful and unsatisfactory
portion of the defence, and one upon which different minds
might arrive at different results, in this very complicated and
confused mass of pleadings and of proofs, yet, the inclination
of our mind after the must attentive examination is, that he was
not a member of the association, and had no interest in it at the
time the sale took place. Primrose himself was a witness in the
ejectment suits and denies his interest, and this is substantially
confirmed by Holmes, the most active man in getting up the
company. Some of the answers admit, upon information and
belief, others more directly, while some deny, that Primrose was
a member of the company. The truth is, the association was
got up suddenly by a mere verbal understanding at the time,
and no one seems to have known with any certainty the exact
number or persons comprising it. Hence scarcely any two of
the defendants in their answers, or witnesses agree, as to the
individuals engaged in it. Mr. Lippencott, who appears to have
been one of the most intelligent and responsible members, says,
in his answer, that the particular persons concerned in it were
not finally settled upon or fixed until about the time the first
payment of the purchase-money in April; an(l this is the first
time he mentions Primrose- as having become a member. As
we have already said, the evidence in the case consisting of the

SUPREME

COURT.

Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al.

notes of the opposite counsel in the ejectment suits, is very
much abridged, and some parts of it of doubtful meaning, and
frequently inconsistent and contradictory; but we think the fair
construction and weight of it confirms the testimony of Primrose himself. It is very probable, and indeed is virtually admitted by himself, that lie was aware at the time of the sale, he
could have an interest in the company if h3 wished; and, if this
was a case that fairly admitted the question of actual fraud to
be raised, this expectation,.or contemplation of a possible future
interest, would be entitled to great weight. But, in the absence
of actual fraud, and with the admitted fact, that the property
was sold not only for a full, but, for a very large price, and
which the heirs have received, and been in the enjoyment of for
the last eight or ten years, we think it would be pressing the
principle of constructive fraud to a refinEment in its practical
application, beyond the reason of it, as it certainly would be in
utter subversion of the justice in the particular case, to concede
to it the effect claimed.
The conduct of the auctioneer is also imreacbed in respect to
the biddings upon lot No. 8, one of the most valuable lying on
the bay, and in striking it off to the bidder on behalf of this
company. But nearly all the witnesses examined on this subject concur in disproving the charge.
Taylor, the only surviving commissioner, and who has never
had any interest in the premises in dispute, and was superintending the sale at the time, says the lot was cried audibly several times to get another bid after the bidding had ceased; and
that, after it was thus cried, timely notice was given by the
auctioneer, that if none other was made, it would be struck off.
It is also said that, after bids had been made upon this lot the
first day of the sale, the sale was stopped, and adjourned until
the next day. But all the witnesses agree, that this was for the
purpose of preventing a sacrifice of the property, and to secure
greater competition. The bid was at twenty-eight dollars per
acre when the adjournment took place. The next day it sold
for forty-three dollars per acre.
Without pursuing the case further, we are satisfied that the
decree below in favor of the defendants is right, and should be
affirmed.

Mr. Justice McLEAN, Mr. Justice WAYNE, and M. Justice CURTIS dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Delauriere V. Emison.

'from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
New Jersey, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, .adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

AuGUSTE

F.

DELAURIERE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THo.AS

EmsoN.
The several acts of Congress, passed in relation to claims to land in Missouri, under
Spanish concessions, reserved such lands from sale from time to time. But there
was an intermiLsion of such legislation from the 29th of May, 1829, to the 9th of
July, 1832; and, during this interval, lands so claimed wcre upon the footing of
other public lands, as to sale, entry, and so forth.
By an act of the 6th of March, 1820, (3 Stat. at Large, 545,) Congress gave a certain amount of land to the State of Missouri, to be selected by the legislature
thereof, on or before the 1st of January, 1825 ; and' by another a;.t, passed on the
3d of March, 1831, (4 Stat. at Large, 492,) the legislature were authorized to sell

this land.
Before the 1st of January, 1825, the legislature belected certain lands, which were
then claimed under Spanish concessions, and reserved from sale under the acts of

Congress first mentioned.
In November, 1831, the land so selected was sold by the legislature, in conformity
with the act of Congress of the preceding March.
This sale having been made in the interval between May, 1829, and July, 1832, conveyed a valid title, although the claimant to the sane land was subsequently con-

firmed in his title by Congress, in 1836.

Tis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Missouri, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act. It was an action of ejeetment
brought by the plaintiff in error, Deluriere, against Emison.
Both parties claimed titles under acts of Congress. The case
was carried to the Supreme Court of Missouri, where the decision was against Delauriere, and he sued out a writ of error to
bring the question before this court.
Delauriere claimed under a Spanish concession, granted by
Delassus, and subsequently confirmed by Congress; and Emison, under an act of Congress granting certain land to Missouri,
and sold by that State. The history of the laws relating to
the adjustment of land titles in Missouri is given with great
particularity in the report of the case of Stoddard v. Chambers,
2 How. 285. The following is the history of the two titles in
this case, as exhibited in the court below:
Plaintiff's Title.
The plaintiff claimed title by virtue of a concession from
Carlos Dehault Delassus, Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Louis-

