SUPREME COURT.
Corning et. al. v. Burden.

court has declined to determine any question upon the averments
of the bill, in regard to the citizenship of the parties. The question is left exactly where it was when this case was presented.
I state these facts, that no inference may be drawn to the cont#ary, and that the decision of the court maynot be misunderstood.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on tie transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Michigan, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction o! the case, and on that grpund the bill was
properly dismissed; there was, therefore, no error in the decree
of said court. Whereupon it is now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed, by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
costs.

ERASTUS CORNING AND JoHN F.
ERROR, V. PETER

WINSLOW, PLAINTIFFS IN

A. BURDEN.

In a suit brought for an infringement of a patent-right, the defendant ought to be
allowed to give in evidence the patent under which he claims, although junior to
the plaintiff's patent.
Burden's
patent for a new and usefdl machine for rollin puddler's halls and other
masses of iron, in the manufacture of iron," was a patent for a machine, and not a
process, although the lang~uage of the claim wns equivocal
The
difference
a process
and atomachine.
Court
exclude evidence offered to show
Hence,
it was explained
erroneous between
for the Circuit
that the practc~l manner of giving effect to the principle embodied in the machino
of the defendants was different from that of Burden, the plaintiff; that the machine
of. the defendants produced a different mechanical resnit from the other; and that
structure
and mechanical
actionupon
of thethe
two
machines were
the mechanical
patent,
construction
of thedifferent.
offered as
to the opinion
of the witness
Evidence

whether it was for a process or a machine, was properl, rejected.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Cir-

cuit Court of the Uied States for the Northern District of New
York.
Peter A. Burden, as assignee of Henr Burden, brought his
action against Coring and Winslow, for a violation of a patent
granted to Henry, as the original and first inventor and discoverer of a new and useful machine for rolling puddle balls or
other masses of iron, in the manufacthre of iron.
u the opinion of the
in
ohat took place at the trial is se fo roh
court. Under the nstructions of the Cicuit Court, the jury

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

253

Corning et al. v. Burden.

found a verdict for the plaintiffs, with one hundred dollars
damages; upon which the defendants brought the case up to
this court by a writ of error.
It was argued by Mr. Seymour and Mifr. Keller, for the plain.
tiffs in error, and by'lft. Fitzgerald and ir. Stevens, for the
defendants in error.
Each one of the four counsel filed a separate brief. The
points presented on the part of the plaintiffs in error are taken
from the brief of Mr. Seymour, and those on the part of the defendant in error from the brief of Mr. Stevens.
Points and Authorities submitted an the part of the Plaintiffs in
Error.
First exception to the charge.- The court erred in charging
the jury that "the letters-patent which have been given in evidence by the plaintiff are for a new process, mode, or method
of converting puddlers' balls into blooms by continuous pressure
and rotation of the balls between converging surfaces, thereby
dispensing with the hammer, alligator jaws, and rollers, accompanied by manual labor, previously in use to accomplish the
same purpose; and the said letters-patent secure to the patentee
the exclusive right to construct, use, and vend any machine
adapted to accomplish the objects of his invention, as above
specified, by the process, mode, or method above-mentioned."
L The court erred in charging the jury that Burden's patent
was for a new process, mode, or method.
A process or mode may be patented. Curtis, p. 65, 66, 67,
68, 69, 70, 71, 73, and cases there cited, from § 77 to § 83.
1. Burden did not patent a process, but a machine.
What he designed to. cover by his patent is to be gathered
from the patent itself, the specification, and its summing up.
Webster on Subject-Matter, p. 18, and note Z; Davoll v. Brown,
1 Woodbury & Minot, 59; Russell v. Crowley et al. 1 Cromp.
Meeson & Roscoe, 864; Moody v. Fiske, 2 Mason, 112; "Rex
v. Cutler, 1 Starkie's Rep. 283; Leroy v. Tatham, 14 H6ward,
156, 171; Wyeth v. Stone, 1 Story's Rep. 285; Gray v. James,
Peters's C. C. R. 394,400; Mr. Justice Nelson's Opinion, in Appendix A, annexed.
2. Burden's patent claims that he has invented a new and
useful machine, &c., not a process.
3. The specification, which purports to be a part of the letterspatent., states the invention to consist in a "machine," not in a
process.
VOL. XV.

22

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

4. The summing up of the specification, or the claim, is substantially for a "machine."
And he specifies three modes of applying the principle of his
invention; thus complying with the requisition of the sixth sec.
tion of the act of 1836, in reference to all patents for machines,
and for machines only.
The preparing of puddlers' balls is not claimed as an invention, nor could it be, for it is as old as the art of making iron by
the process of puddling. See Encyclopaedia Americana, Vol.
7,'Art. Iron, p. 72. The preparing puddlers' balls by pressure is
for that, too, is old. .b. But the claim is for the
n9
I-claimed,
invention of the new mechanism for preparing puddlers' balls.
I. An invention, such as Burden's is described to be in the
patent and specification, is, upon the authority of elementary
works, and the decisions of our courts, a machine, and not a
process.
The distinction between a patent for a machine and a patent
for a process is well known.
1. A patent for a machine is defined by Curtis, § 93, as follows: "If the subject of the invention or discovery is not a
mere function, but -. function embodied in some particular mechanism, whose m,'de of operation and general structure are
pointed out, and which is designed to accomplish a particular
purpose, function, or effect, it will be a machine in the sense of
the patent law."
If the speeification describes "not a mere function, but a machine of. a particular structure, whose modes of operation are
pointed out to accomplish a particular purpose or end, the patent is for a machine, and not for a principle or function detached
from machinery." Blanehard v. Sprague, 3 Sumner, 640.
A method or process may be the subject of a patent. See
Phillips, pp. 93, 94; Curtis, "§80, 81.
Among the cases cited (see Curtis, § 79) of patents for a method, or, as the writer expresses it, "I.forthe practical application
of a known thing to produce a particular effect," are
Hartley's invention-to protect buildings from fire by the application of plates of metal. See also Webster's Patent Cases,
pp. 54, 55, 56; and note, pp. 55 and 56.
Forsyth's patent for the application of detonating powder,
which he did not invent, to the discharge of artillery, mines, &c.
In this case the patentee succeeded in an action against the
party using a lock of diffeient construction from any shown in
the drawing annexed to his specification, and, as Curtis says,
"thus established his right to the exclusive use and application
,of detonating powder aspriming, whatever -the construction of
the lock by which it was discharged." Webster's Patent Cases.
pp. 95, 97, note.

DECEMLBER TERM, 1858.

255

Corning et al. v. Burden.

Hall's patent for the application of the flame of gas to singe
off the superfluous fibres of lace, and other goods, is another of
this class. Web. Pat. Cases, p. 99.
The plaintiff had a verdict founded on his sole right to use
gas-flame foi the clearing of fibres from lace. Curtis, p. 67, n.1;
Web. Pat. Cases, pp. 100, 103; Neilson v. Harford, Web. Pat.
Cases, 191, &c.; Neilson v. Thompson, Web. Pat. Cases, 275;
The Husehill Co. v. Neilson, Web. Pat. Cases, 673; Boulton
tv.
Bull, 2 H. Blackstone, 492; Clegg's Patent, Web. Pat. Cases,
103; Morse's Patents; McClurg v. Kingsland, 1 Howard, 202;
Russell v. Cowley, Web. Pat. Cases, 459.
.
2. The preparing a puddler's ball is reducing and compacting
it by pressure into the form of a bloom. See EncyclopEedia
Americana, vol. 7, article Iron, p. 72; Nicholson's Op. Mechanic,
pp. 334-5; Ure's Dic. of Arts and Manufactures, p. 703.
If Burden's claim, then, is for the reducing and compacting
the ball by pressure into the form of a bloom, it is a claim for
a process long before known in the manufacture of iron, and
would therefore be void for want of novelty.
To avoid this difficulty, the statement of the claim goes on
to say that he claims the preparing these balls by causing them
to pass between curved or plane surfaces, in the manner described in his drawings and in the specification of the several
parts of the machine.
If the words "the particular method of the application" were
correctly held in Wyeth v. Stone, before cited, to mean the particular apparatus and machinery described in the specification;
is not the claim for preparing puddlers' balls, by causing them
to pass through a certain machine, as clearly a claim for the invention of the machine?
Wyeth claimed not only the art or principle of cutting ice of
a uniform size, but "the particular method of the application of

the principle;"1 and this last part of the claim was held to be
the only valid part of it, and to be a claim of the particular apparatus and machinery, described in the specification to, effect
the purpose of cutting ice.
So Burden's patent, if it be sustained at all, must be held to
be a patent for the particular apparatus and machinery, described in the specification to effect the "preparing the puddlers'
balls." See also the case of Blanchard v. Sprague, 3 Sumner, 535.
It was objected, on the trial in this last case, that the plain.
tiff's specification was defective; that he claimed the functions
of the machine, and not the machine itself."
Nr. Justice Story, at p. 540, says: "Looking at the present
specification, and constxuing all its terms together, I am clearly

256

SUPREME'COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

of opinion that it is not a patent claimed for a function, but it
is claimed for the machine specially descibed in the specification; that it is not for a mere function, but for a function as embodied in a particular machine, whose mode of operation and
general structure are pointed out."
If to claim a "method" or mode of operation in the abstract,
explained in the description of certain macainery, be a claim for
a machine, as was adjudged in Blanchard v. Sprague, is not the
claim of preparing puddlers' balls, by the operation of certain
machinery, much more a claim of a machine ? In other words,
is the claimn of a particular result before known, from the operation of a machine claimed to be new, any thing else than a claim
for the peculiar construction of the machine itself, by which that
result is effected?
3. Again, the result claimed by Burden is to produce a bloom
from a puddle ball by pressure, welding. together the particles
of iron, and expressing in part the impurities, and partly shaping the mass for the after operation of converting it into bars,
.also by pressure.
It cannot be pretended that Burden invented this, or any part
of it. This was all done before his invention, under the hammer and the alligator jaws. But it may be zSaid that he invented
an improvement in this process. This cannot be; for he only
compresses the mass to cement the particles, express the impurities; and give shape; all this was done before by the hammer and the jaws, and, in the opinion, of many, better done than
he does it.
4. Again, it may be said that he made an improvement in the
operation by making it continuous. This brings the matter to
a true test, and shows that it is the invention of a machine to
render the operation continuous which before had been intermittent.
5. It may be claimed that he has invented or introduced the
element of self-action. This establishes the defendant's proposition that Burden's patent is only for a m'achine. For the
meaning of this is, as the term self-action must be predicated
of material substances, that he has substituted an organization
of machinery to perform automatically what was before performed partly by hand and partly by machinery. Machines for
nail-cufting, making hook-head spikes, carding and spinning,
weaving, felting, are self-acting machines, which have been invented to carry on known processes; all have the element of
self-action, and yet all of them have been recognized as machines, and not processes.
IIl. The plaintiff in his declaration coumts upon his patent
as a patent for a machine only, and not for a process.

DECEMBER TER1, 1853.

257

Corning et al. v. Bnrden.

He ought to be permitted to recover only secundum allegata
et probata.
IV. But suppose the patent be for a process, and not for a
machine'; then we submit that the court erred in sustaining the
patent as a patent for a new process of preparing puddlers' balls,
by continuous pressure and rotation of the balls between converging surfaces.
1. For this process itself is a well known and common process in the arts, and therefore could not be patented at the time
of the alleged invention.
The operation to which the puddlers' ball is subjected, that
is, the process, produces common results necessarily arising from
pressure on all soft and porous substances, to wit: condensation, expression of matter, and change of form.
2. All the experts testify that Burden's invention consists in
carrying on the old process of reducing a puddler's ball to a
bloom, by pressure created and continued by his machinery.
That the machinery by which such pressure may be applied
is patentable, is obvious. But aside from the peculiar construction of Burden's machinery, there is pothing new in its application. It is merely the application of a known mode of operation in the arts, to produce a known result, that is, mechanical
pressure, to produce a bloom out of a puddler's ball. See Curtis, p. 78, sec. 88.
That this form of applying mechanical pressure is not new,
was proved by, &e. &c.
S. Notwithstanding the condition embodied in the second
proposition contained in the charge of the court, as follows:
"The machines for milling buttons, milling coin, and rolling.
shot, which have been given in evidence by the defendants, do
not show a want of novelty in the invention of the said patentee, as already described, if the processes used in them, the
purposes for -which they were used, and the objects accomplished by them, were substantially different from those of the said
letters-patent;" yet taken in connection with the construction
given by the court to the paten t, in the first proposition contained in the charge, the defendants were deprived of the defence to which they were entitled, to wit: That the reducing
puddlers' ball to blooms, by their rotation and pressure between
converging and continually approximaing surfaces, was but a
double use of a process or machine, long before used in milling
buttons, milling coins, and rolling shot.
For the court had decided, in the first proposition of the charge,
that Burden's patent was "for a new process of ionverting
puddlers' balls into blooms, by continuous pressure and rotation
of the ball between converging surfaces."
22 *

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

In other words, that the application by the plaintiff's machine
to the puddler's ball, of the old method of reducing and compacting metals by the continuous pressure of converging surfaces, constituted such a novel process in the manufacture of
iron, that (its utility not being questioned) the plaintiff's patent
was good, notwithstanding the previous use of the milling machine on copper, silver, and gold, and of the shot machine on
lead, in compacting and reducing those metals by the rotation
of the metals and the continuous pressure of converging surfaces.
4. Burden's patent is clearly a case of double use. See Curtis on Patents, sec. 85 to 89, and notes and cases therein cited;
Losh v. Hague, Webster's Patent Cases, :207; Howe v. Abbott, 2 Story, R. 190-193.
To this defence the defendants were clearly entitled. The
processes of milling thecoin, finishing the edges of the buttons,
making the shot or balls, and making the blooms, are strictly
identical.
V. The court erred in charging the jury as they did in the
latter clause of the first proposition contained in the charge, tq
wit: "And the said letters-patent secure to the patentee the
exclusive right to construct, use, and vend any machine adapted
to accomplish the objects of his invention as above specified,
by the process, mode, or method above mentioned."
Also in laying down the third proposition in his charge, to
wit: "That the machine used by the defendants is an infringement of the said letters-patent, if it converts puddlers' balls
into blooms by the continuous pressure -and rotation of the
balls betveen converging surfaces, although its mechanical construction and action may be different from that of the machines
described in the said letters-patent'
Also in excluding the testimony offered by the following
question, to wit: by changing the form of the rolling surfaces
in Mr. Winslow's machine, can it be made to roll a sphere ?
Also the testimony offered as follows: "1Thecounsel for the
defendants then off&ed to prove by this witness that the machine used by the defendants differed, in point of mechanical
construction and mechanical action, from the machines described
in Burden's specification."
All these propositions were thus erroneously adjudged against
the defendants, as a sequence or corollary following from the
first main proposition which the court had l.aid'down against
the defendants, to wit, that the plaintiff's patent was for a
process and not for a machine. The court :an substance held,
that although the mechanical construction and action of the
defendants' machine might be different from that of the plain-

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

259

Corning et al. v. Burden.

tiff's, it was still an infringement if it reduced the balls to
blooms by continuous pressure and rotation.
This was an erroneous position. For one thing was certain.
We had the right to reduce puddlers' balls to blooms by any
machine having a different action from that of the plaintiff.
Curtis, see. 96, n. 2; Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallison, 478491 ; Barrett v. H.U, 1 Mason, 470.
In the light of these authorities, proof of different mechanical
construction and different action was competent and highly
pertinent to establish "a peculiar structure," and the production
of a new effect.
VL The court erred in excluding the evidence offered to be
given by the witness, Hibbard, to wit: " That the practical
manner of giving effect to the principle embodied in the machine used by the defendants was entirely different from the
practical manner of giving effect to the principle embodied in
Ar. Burden's machine - that the principle of the two machines,
as well as the practical manner of carrying out those principles,
was diffeient; and that the machine used by the defendant
prodaced by its action on the iron a different mechanical resuit,
on a different mechanical principle, from that .produced in
Burden's machine."
The witness was an expert, and no objection was urged on
that score, or to the form of the question. Silsby v. Foote, 14

Howard, 218, 225.
This offer embraced legitimate proof tending to Pstablish a
general proposition material to the issue, to wit:
That the defendant's machine was constructed on a different
principle, or had a different mode of operation from the plain-

tiff's.
Proof that tne principle of one machine was different from
that of the other, was tantamount to proof that their mode of
operation was different; for two machines, different in principle,
cannot well have the same mode of operation, although they
may 'produce the same result.
But the defendant not only offered to prove that the machines
were different, but also that they produced on the iron a different mechanical result. See Curtis on Pat. p. 264, § 222: also
p. 285; also p. 286, § 241.
In conclusion, the court in this case should have held that
the plaintiff's patent was for a machine. And on the question
of novelty the c6urt should have left it to the jury as a question
of fact, to find upon the testimony whether the plaintiff's machine was the same in its principle or modus operandi as the
milling, button, or shot machines. And- on the question of infringement, the court should have left it to the jury, upon the

260

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

testimony, to find whether the defendants' machine was the
same in its distinctive character or principle as the plaintiff's.
Brief on the part of defendant in error.
First. The whole question in this cause depends upon the
correctness of the construction contended for by the counsel for
the defendant in error, and which the jud.ge gave to the patent
on the trial. If this construction be correct, the other two instructions given by the learned judge to the jury are also correct
and follow as necessary corollaries. Curtis on Patents, § 146 7-8.
Second. The construction of the patent given by the court
on the trial, by the first instruction to the jury, was correct.
I. The patent (that is the parchment ) made out at the
patent office, by the proper officer in that department, does not
in any case, according to the patent law of this country, describe
the thing patented. To ascertain the thing patented, the specification, which is filed before the patent is issued, is the test in
all cases, as to what the patent secures to the patentee; and to
ascertain that, the whole specification must be consulted; and
the modern decisions have declared, that a liberal construction
must be given to it in favor of the patentee. Patent Act of
1836, § 5; Curtis of Patents, § 122, 123, 126, 127; Ames v.
Howard, 1 Sumner, 482, 485; Hogg v. -Emerson, 6 Howard,
437,482; Davoll v. Brown, 1 Wood. & Min. 53, 57.
It is undoubtedly true, if the description or title of the invention, as stated in the patent, is irreconcilably repugnant to the
description of the invention contained in the specification, as if
the description in the patent be a machine :for making nails, and
the invention described in the specification is of a machine for
carding wool, the patent would be void, upon the ground that
the government had not given to the patentee a legal exclusive
title to his invention. But nothing can be deduced from this
principle of law to sust~in the position that the invention is
only what it is stated-to be in the title stated in the patent, but
on the contrary, the very reverse of that position is what renders
the patent void in such cases.
In this case there is no such repugnancy. True, the patent
states the invention to be of a new and useful machine for rolling puddle balls, &c., but this is not so repugnant to the description of the invention contained in the specification, as would
preclude the court from adjudging that the government intended
to and did grant the patent, for the in-ention described in the
specification, to wit, -for an improvement in 'the process, &c.
Unless the title of the invention described in the patent is
clearly repugnant to the description of the invention in the

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

261

Corning et al. v. Burden.

speciflcaior, the patent will be deemed to be a grant of the
exclusive right to the invention described in the specification,
but it cannot diminish the extent of the invention described, and
claimed in the specification.
In short, the description of the invention in the specification
is the act of the inventor, for which, if it be new and useful,.
the government is bound to grant him a patent. The granting
of the patent is the act of the government, and if the description in that grant be not clearly repugnant to that which the
inventor claimed and was entitled to, it will be deemed to be
a grant of the thing to which he was entitled.
IL By any just .or legal construction of the specification
forming a part of the patent in question, and giving the only
description of the invention for which the patent issued, said
patent is for a new process, mode, or method, of converting
puddlers' balls into blooms, by continuous pressure and rotation
of the ball between converging surfaces; thereby dispensing
with the hammer, alligator jaws, and rollers accompanied with
manual labor, previously in use to accomplish the same pur.
pose, and is not confined to the particular machines described
in the specifications and drawings.
The specification commences in these words: "To all whom
it may concern, be it known, that I, Henry Burden, of the city
of Troy, in the county of Rensselaer, and State of New York,
have invented an improvement in the process of manufacturing
iron" Now let us here pause, for an instant, to inquire if the
patentee really intended to represent his invention as one consisting in a new or improved machine, to be used in the manufacture of iron; why, with his thoughts upon the subject, did
he not say so, instead of calling it an "improvement in the
process of manufacturing iron? " I confess my utter inability
to divine any reasonable answer to this question. The improbability of such a wilful misnomer, is greatly enhanced by the
conceded and well-known fact, that a new or improved process
is patentable, no less than a new or improved machine: process
or method, which, in the patent law, are said to be synonymous,
are among the few words in familiar use, machine being another
of these words, expressive of the few pxopersubjects of a patent;
so that to hold this to be a patent for a machine, is to impute
to the patentee the absurdity not only of omitting to call his
invention by its proper name, but of substituting, at the outset,
another name of well-known signification in law, expressly appropriated to another and widely different subject of a patent.
But the specifications contain other expressions which are in
strict accordance with the language already quoted, and require
the same interpretation. After particularly and clearly describ-

262

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v Burden.

ing the process in question, and the means by which it is accomplished, the patentee proceeds as follows: "It will be readily
perceived also, by the skilful machinist, that the principle upon
which I proceed may be carried out under various modifications,
of which I have given two examples; and these might be easily
multiplied, but this is not necessary, as I believe that those which
have been given must suffice to show, in the clearest manner,
the nature of my invention, and point out fully what I desire to
have secured to me under letters-patent of the United States."
Does this look like only claiming to be the inventor of a specific
machine? On the contrary, the patentee lefers to the descriptions he has given of the mechanical contrivances by which his
process may be carried on, as illustrative only of the 11principle 11
on which he "proceeds ;" and, referring to the two machines
thus described, he adds, "and these might be easily multiplied."
Does this language import an intention to limit his claim to
them? But an equally decisive test of ihe patentee's claim
remains yet to be considered. His specification concludes with
a summary. "In order to ascertain the true construction of
the specification in this respect, we must'look to the summing
up of the invention, and the claim thereof asserted in the specification; for it is the duty of the patentee Io sum up his invention, in clear and determinate terms; and his summing up is
conclusive upon his right and title." Wyeth v. Stone, 1 Story's
R. 273, 285.
The patentee's summary is as follows: "Having thus fully
made known the nature of my said improvE ment, and explained
and exemplified the manner in which I construct the machinery
for carrying the same into operation, what 3.claim as constituting my invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is the
preparing of the puddlers' balls as they are delivered from the
puddling furnace, or of other similar masses of iron, by causing
ieln to pass between a revolving cylinder and a curved segmental trough adapted thereto, constructed and operating substantially in the manner of that herein'described and represented
in figures 2 and 3, of the accompanying drawings, or by causing the said balls to pass between vibratory or reciprocating
curved surfaces, operating upon the same piinciple, and producing a like result by analogous means."
Now by his "improvement," mentioned at the commencement
of this summary, it is indisputdble that the patentee means his
invention; and this he describes as being carried into operation
by means of machinery constructed for the purpose. With
what propriety, then, can it be said that the invention claimed
is of the machinery itself? "What I claim," he adds, as
"constituting my invention, is the preparing of the puddlers'

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

263

Corning et al. v. Burden.
balls," &c. Is the process of preparing puddler's balls a machine?
If not, is it not a flat contradiction of the language of the
patentee to say that he claims to be the invehtor of a machine
and not of a process? And what is there in the other parts of
the specification to neutralize this explicit'and unequivocal language? It is said that the patentee describes and has furnished
drawings representing two several machines used by him, the
one in his first essays and the other subsequently. This is true,
and it is also true, that the two are wholly different, not only in
form, but in mechanical construction, having, irl fact, nothing in
common except their mutual adaptation to a like process and
effect.
Besides, the court will please to observe that the specification
claims no particular form of apparatus for carrying his mode or
method of converting puddlers' balls into blooms, into effect.
The patent cannot, therefore, be construed as confining the invention to the two particular machines which he has described,
that would accomplish that mode, method, or process. Curtis
on Patents, § 80, 81; Minter v. Wells, Webs. Pat. Cases, 130.
The specification should be so construed as to make the claim
coextensive with the actual discovery, if the fair import of the
language used will admit of it. Curtis on Patents, § 132.
III. The patent is not for a principle merely, but for a mode,
method, or process, giving two practical means for accomplishing
it.
The patentee shows, by his specification, that he had succeeded
in embodying the principle by inventing some mode of carrying
it into effect, and thus converting it into a process. "You oannot," said Alderson, B., in Jupe v. Pratt, Webs; Pat. Cases, 146,
"you cannot take out a patent for a principle; yoq may take
out a patent for a principle coupled with a mode of carrying the
principle into effect. If you have done that, you are entitled to
protect yourself fiom all other modes of carrying the same
Principle into effect, that being treated by the jury as a piracy
of your original invention.'"
"A mere principle," says Mr. Curtis, "is an abstract discovery;
but a principle, so far embodied and connected with corporeal
substances as to be in a condition to act and produce effects in
any art, trade, mystery, or manual occupation, becomes the
practical manner of doing a practical thing. It is no longer a
principle, but a process." Curtis on Patents, § 72; see also § 77,
78, and notes, p. 59, 66.
With the requirements of the law in this respect, the patentee
has complied in a manner perfectly unexceptionable, and perfectly consistent with the construction of his patent, insisted on
by the plaintiff. There is not, in the specification, a single

264

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et al. v. Burden.

expression indicative of an intention to limit his claim as an
inventor to one or both of the machines described by him, while,
on the contrary, the language plainly infers a fixed purpose to
guard against such an interpretation. Curtis on Patents, § 148,
and note 1.
IV. If this construction of the patent is correct, it necessarily
follows, that the patent protects the patentee from all other
modes of carrying the same mode, process, or method into effect,
which'is in substance and effect the principle held by the judge
in the last clause of his first instruction to the jury. Jupe v.
Pratt, Webs. Pat. Cases, 146; Curtis or Patents, § 148, and
note 1.
Tkird. The rejection of the evidence offered on page 84 of
the record, constitutes no ground of error.
I. The decision, if wrong, was cured by the evidence of the
same facts afterwards elicited from the witnesses.
II. If the construction of the patent co:atended for by plaintiff below, and held by the court, is corect, the testimony was
properly excluded. Jupe v. Pratt, Webs. Fat. Cases, 146, supra;
Curtis on Patents, § 148, and note 1.
Fourth. The decision, excluding the evidence of Winslow's
patents, was clearly right.
If the machine used by defendant was an infringement of
plaintiff's patent, the fact that Winslow had obtained a patent
for it would be no defence, and if it was not an infringement
of*plaintiff's patent, it was not material in this suit whether it
had or had not been patented.
Fifth. Ip the argument in the court below, on the motion for
a new trial on this bill of exceptions, the counsel for the defendants objected that there was a variance between the declaration
and the patent given in. evidence, unless the court held the patent
was for a particular machine or machines. That objection was,
however, justly and legally disregarded by both members of the
court in their decisioi of the motion.
The objection is technical, and it is entirely settled by the
practice of the State of New York, that such objection cannot
avail the party unless taken when the evidence is offered.
No such objection was taken on the trial of this cause, nor
was there any decision of the court, or aay exception on any
such question raised on the trial. Watson's Executors v. McLarien, 19 Wend. Rep. 563.
MTany other authorities might be cited, but it is unnecessary.
The member of this court from the State .,f New York knows
this to be- the rule, and both the judges of the court below
disregarded the objection.
'esides, if the objection had been made at the trial, that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

patent given in evidence varied from that described in the
declaration, the court would have directed the declaration to be
amended by substituting the word process in the place of machine. The defendants could not have been misled or prejudiced by such inaccuracy of description. 2d Revised Statutes
of New York, 3d ed. p. 504, § 98, p. 520, § 7, subdivision 14,
and § 8; 2d Revised Statutes of New York, 4th ed. p. 510,
§ 169, 170.
Six-th. No question as to the novelty of the invention for
which this patent was issued, is presented by the record in this
cause, except that contained in the 2d instruction of the judge
to the jury. That instruction was right in point of law, and
the jury found the fact with the plaintiff below, (defendant in
error.)
Air. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Peter A. Burden, who is assignee of a patent granted to Henry
Burden, brought this suit against the plaintiffs in error for infringement of his patent. The declaration avers that Henry
Burden was "the first inventor of a new and useful machine.for
rolling puddle balls," for which a patent was granted to him in
1840, and that the defendants, Corning and Winslow, "1made,
used, &c., this said new and us eful machine in violation and infringement of the exclusive right so secured to plaintiff."
The defendants below, under plea of the general issue, gave
notice that they would prove, on the trial, that Henry Burden
"was not the first and original inventor of the supposed new
and useful machine for rolling" puddle balls, &c.;" that the. machine of the plaintiff, and the principle of its operation was not
new, and that the common and well-known machines called
nobbling rolls, which were in use long before the application of
Burden for a patent, embraced the same invention and improve.
ments used for substantially the same purpose. And after setting forth many other matters to be given'in evidence, affecting
the novelty of plaintiff's machine, the notice denies that the ma.
chine used by the defendant was an infringement of that patented by plaintiff, and avers that the machine used by them was
described in a patent issued to the defendant, Winslow, in December, 1847, "for rolling and compressing puddlers' balls," differing in principle and mode of operation from that described in
the plaintiff's patent.
To support the issue, in his behalf, the plaintiff gave in evidence a patent to Henry Burden, dated 10th of December, 1840,
for "aanew and useful machine for rolling puddlers' balls and
other masses of iron in the manufacture of iron;" and followed
it by testimony tending to show the novelty and utility of his
VOL. XV.

23

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et al. v. Burden.

machine, and that the machine used by the defendants was
constructed on the same principles, and there rested his case.
The defendants then offered to read in evidence the patent of
Winslow for his "new and useful improvement in rolling and
compressing puddlers' balls." The plaintiff objected to this evidence as irrelevant, and the court sustained the objection and
overruled the evidence. This ruling of the court forms the subject of defendant's first bill of exceptions.
The defendants then proceeded to introduce testimony tending to show want of originality in the plaintiff's machine; and
also that the principle and mode of operation of the defendant's
machine was different from that described in the plaintiff's patent; and finally called a witness named Hibbard. This witness gave a history of the various processes and machines used
in the art of converting cast iron into blooms or malleable iron.
He spoke of the processes of puddling, shingling, and rolling,
and attempted to define the difference betvieen a process and a
machine. The introduction of this philological discussion seems
at once. to have changed the whole course of investigation, to
the entire neglect of the allegations of the declaration and of
the issues set forth in the pleadings, in support of which all the
previous testimony had been submitted to the jury. The defendant's counsel then proposed the following question to the
witness: "Do you consider the invention of Mr. Burden, as set
forth in his specification, to be for a process or a machine?"
This question was objected to, overruled by the court, and a bill
of exceptions sealed.
The counsel for the defendants then offered to prove, by this
witness, "that the practical manner of giving effect to the principle embodied in the machine used by the defendants, was entirely different from the practical manner of giving effect to the
principle embodied in Mr. Burden's machine; that the principles
of the two machines, as well as the practical manner of carrying
out those principles, vere different; and that the machine used by
the-defendants produced, by its action on the iron, a different
mechanical result on a different mechanical principle from that
produced in Mr. Burden's machine." To the introduction of
this testimony the plaintiff's counsel objected, and it was overruled by the court, and, at the defendant's instance, a bill of exceptions sealed.
The defendant's counsel then proposed to prove "that the machine used by the defendants differed in point of mechanical
structure and mechanical action from the machines described in
the plaintiffs specification." This testimony was also overruled
and exceptions taken.
After'some further examination of witnesses, the learned judge

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

267

Corming et al. v. Burden.

announced his intention of instructing the jury, in the three following propositions, upon which the defendant's counsel declhied
to give further testimony, and excepted to his instructions.
"1. The letters-patent to Henry Burden, which have been
given in evidence by the plaintiff, are for a new process, mode,
or method of converting puddler's balls into blooms, by continuous pressure and rotation of the ball between converging surfaces; thereby dispensing with the hainmer, alligator jaws, and
rollers accompanied with manual labor, previously in use to accomplish the same purpose. And the said letters patent-secure
to the patentee the exclusive right to construct, use, and vend
any machine adapted to accomplish the objects of his invention
as above specified, by the process, mode, or method above mentioned."
"92. The machines for milling buttons, milling coin, and rolling shot, which have been given in evidence by the defendants,
do not show a want of novelty in the invention of the said patentee, as already described, if the processes used in them, the
purposes for which they were used, and the objects accomplished
by them, were substantially different from those of the said letters-patent."1
"3. That the machine used by the defendants is an infringemene of the said letters-patent, if it converts puddlers' balls into
blooms by the continuous pressure. and rofation of the balls between converging surfaces, although its mechanical construction
and action may be different from those of the machines described in the said letters-patent."
As the first instruction of the court contains the most important point in the case, and a decision of it will dispose of most
of the others, we shall consider it first in order.
Is the plaintiff's patent for a process or a machine?
A process, eo nomine, is not made the subject of a patent in
our act of Congress. It is included under the general term
" useful art." An art may require one or more processes or machines in order to produce a certain result or manufacture. The
term machine includes every mechanical device or combination
of mechanical powers and devices to perform some function
and produce a certain effect or result. But where the result or
effect is produced by chemical action, by the operation or application of some element or power of nature, or of one substance
to another, such modes, methods, or operations, are called processes. A new process is usuagly the result of discovery; a
machine, of invention. The arts of tanning, dyeing, making
water-proof cloth, vulcanizing India rubber, smelting ores, and
numerous others, are usually carried on by processes, as distinguished from machines. One may discover a new and useful

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et el. v. Burden.

improvement in the process of tanning, dyeing, &c., irrespective
of any particular form of machinery or mechanical device.And another may. invent a labor-saving machine by which this
operation or process may be performed, and each may be entitled to his patent. As, for instance, A :aas discovered that by
exposing India rubber to a certain degree of heat, in mixture or
connection with certain metallic salts, he can produce a valuable
product, or manufacture; he is entitled to a patent for his discovery, as a process or improvement in the art, irrespective of
any machine or mechanical device. B, on the contrary, may
invent a new furnace or stove, or steam apparatus, by which
this process may be carried on with much saving of labor, and
expense of fuel; and he will be entitled to a patent for his machine, as an improvement in the art. Yet A could not have a
patent for a machine, or B for a process; but each would have a
patent for the means or method of producing a certain result, or
effect, and not for the result or effect prodt.ced. It is for the discovery or invention of some practicable method or means of
producing a beneficial result or effect, tha; a patent is granted,
and not for the result or effect itself. It is when the term process is used to represent the means or method of producing a
result that it is patentable, and it will include all methods or
means which are not effected by mechanism or mechanical cornnations.
But the term process is often used in a more vague sense, in
which it cannot be the subject of a paten:. Thus we say that
a board is undergoing the process of being planed, grain of
being ground, iron of being hammered, or rolled. Here the
term is used subjectively or passively as applied to the material
operated on, and not to the method or mode of producing that
operation, which is by mechanical means, or the use of a machine,
as distinguished from a process.
In this use of the term it represents the function of a machine,
or the effect produced by it on the "material subjected to the
action of the machine. But it is well seted that a man cannot
have a patent for the function or abstract effect of a machine,
but only for the machine which produces it.
It is by not distinguishing between the primary and secondary
sense of the term "process," that the learned judge below appears to have fallen into an error. It is clear that Burden does
not pretend to have -discovered any new process by which cast
iron is converted into malleable iron, but a new machine or
combination of mechanical devices bywhich the slag or impurities of the cast iron may be expelled o:r pressed out of the
metal, when reduced to the shape of puddlers' balls. The machines used before to effect this compression, were tilt hammers

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

and alligator's jaw , acting by percussion and pressure, and by
nobbling rolls -with eccentric grooves, which compressed the
metal by use of the inclined plane in the shape of a cyclovolute
or snail cam. In subjecting the metal to this operation, by the
action of these machines, more time and manual labor is
required than when the same function is performed by the machine of Burden. It saved labor, and thus produced the result
in a cheaper, if not a better manner, and was, therefore, the
proper subject of a patent.
In either case the iron may be said, in the secondary sense of
the term, to undergo a process in order to change its qualities
by pressing out its impurities, but the agent which effects the
pressure is a machine or combination of mechanical devices.
The patent of Burden alleges no discovery of a new process,
but only that he has invented a machine, and, therefore, correctly
states the nature of his invention.
The patent law requires that" every patent shall contain a short
description or title of the invention or discovery, indicating its
nature and design," &c. The patent in question recites that,
"Whereas Henry Burden, of Troy, New York, has alleged that
he has invented a new and useful machine for rolling puddle
balls, or other masses of iron, in the manufacture of iron, which
he states has not been known or used before his application;
has made oath that he is a citizen of the United States; that
he does verily believe that he is the original and first inventor or
discoverer of the said machine, &c."
The specification declares that his improvement consists in
"the employment of a new and useful machine for rolling of puddlers' balls;" again he calls it "my rolling machine," and
describes his "machine as consisting of a cast iron cylinder,"
&c. In fine, his specification sets forth the "particulars" of his
invention, in exact accordance with its title in the patent, and
in clear, distinct, unequivocal, and proper phraseology.
It is true that the patentee, after describing his machine, has
set forth his claim in rather ambiguous and equivocal terms,
which might be construed to mean either a process or machine.
n such case the construction should be that which is most
favorable to the patentee, "lt res magis valeat quam pereat."
His patent having a title which claims a machine, and his specification describing a machine, to construe his claim as for the
function, effect, or kesult of his machine, would certainly endanger, if not destroy, its validity. His claim cannot change
or nullify his previous specification with safety to his patent.
He cannot describe a machine which will perform a certain
function, and then claim the function itself, and all other machines that may be invented to perform the same function.
1

23 *

270

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

We are of opinion, therefore, that the learned judge of the
court below erred in the construction of the patent, and in his
first proposition or instruction to the jury. And as the second
and third instructions are based on the first, they must fall with
it. Taking the bills of exception to rejection of evidence in
the inverse order, it is clear that the last -two rulings being
founded on the erroneous construction or the patent, are, of
course, erroneous. The testimony offered was directly relevant
to the issues trying, and should have been received.
The refusal of the court to hear the opinion of experts, as to
the construction of the patent, was proper. Experts may be
examined as to the meaning of terms of art on the principle of,
"cuique in sua arte credendum," but not as to the construction
of written instruments.
It remains only to notice the first bill of exceptions, which
was to the rejection of the defendant's patent.
This is a question on which there may Ie some difference of
opinion. In some circuits it has been the practice, when the
defendant has a patent for his invention, to read it to the jury
without objection; in others, it is not received, on the ground
that it is irrelevant to the issue, which is a contest between
the machine of the defendant and the patent of the plaintiff,
and that a posterior patent could not justify an infringement
of a prior one for the same invention.
By the patent act of 1793, any person desirous of obtaining
a patent for. an alleged invention, made application to the
Secretary of State, and received his patent on payment of the
fees, and on a certificate of the Attorney-General that his application "was conformable to the act." No examination was
made by persons qualified to judge whether the alleged invention was new or useful, or had been patented before. That
rested wholly on the oath of the applicant. The patent act of
1790 had made a patent primd facie eviden ce; but this act was
repealed by that of 1793, and this provision was not reenacted in
it. Hence a patent was not received in courts of justice as
even .primdffacie evidence that the invention patented was new
or useful, and the plaintiff was bound to -?rove these facts in
order to make out his case. But the act of 4th of July, 1836,
introduced a new system, and an entire change in the mode of
granting patents. It provided for a new officer, styled a commissioner of patents, to "1superintend, execute, and perform all
akts and things touching and respecting the granting and iss uing
of patents, &c." The commissioner -wasaathorized to appoint
a chief clerk, and three examining clerks, machinist, and other
officers.
On the filing of an application the commissioner is required

DECEMBER TERM, 18,3.

271

Corning et al. v. Burden.

to make, or cause to be made, an examination of the alleged
invention, ir% order to ascertain whether the same had been
invented or discovered by any other person in this country, p:ior
to the application; or whether it had been patented in this or
any foreign country, or had been on public use or sale, with the
applicant's consent, prior to his application; and if the connissioner shall find that the invention is new and useful, or
important, he is authorized to grant a patent for the same. In
case the decision of the commissioner and his examiner is
against the applicant, and he shall persist in his claim, he may
have an appeal to a board of examiners, to consist of three
persons, appointed for that purpose by the Secretary of State,
who, after a hearing, may reverse the decision of the commissioner in whole or in part. By the act of 1839, the Chief
Justice of the District of Columbia, -was substituted to the
board of examiners.
It is evident that a patent, thus issued after an inquisition
or examination, made by skilful and sworn public officers, appointed for the purpose of protecting the. public against false
claims or useless inventions, is entitled to much more respect,
as evidence of novelty and utility, than those formerly issued
without any such investigation. Consequently such a patent
may be, and generally is, received as privid facie evidence of
the truth of the facts asserted in it. And in cases where the
evidence is nicely balanced, it may have weight with a jury in
making up their decision as to the plaintiff's right; and if so,
it is not easy to perceive why the defendant who uses a patented
machine should not have the benefit of a like presumption in
his favor, arising from a like investigation of the originality of
his invention, and the judgment of the public officers, that his
machine is new, and not an infringement of the patent previously granted to the plaintiff. It shows, at least, that 4he
defendant has acted in good faith, and is not a wanton infringer
of the plaintiff's rights, and ought not, therefore, to be subjected to the same stringent and harsh rule of damages which
Might be justly inflicted on a mere pirate. It is true the mere
question of originality or infringement generally turns on the
testimony of the witnesses produced on the trial; but if the
plaintiff 's patent in a doubtful case may have some weight in
turning the scale in his favor, it is but just that the defendant
should have the same benefit from his; valeat quantum valeat.
The parties should contend on an equal field, and be allowed
to use the same weapons.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the court erred in refusing
to permit the defendants' patent to be read to the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, reversed, and
a venite de wovo awarded.

272

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et al. v. Burden.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, and wait argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here crdered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the maid Circuit Court, in
this cause, be, and the same is hereby, revarsed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venire facias de
1zOvo.

JOHN GARROiV, THOMrAS Y. How, JR., JAMES SEYMOUR, AND
GEORGE MILLER, APPELLANTS, V. Alios DAvIs, GEORGE X.
PICKERING, WILLIAM MCCRILLIS, AND EPHRAIM PAULK.
Black, as agent for the owners, contracted to sell a large quantity of land in aine,
which contract was assigned by the vendee, until it came, through mesne assignments, into the hands of Miller and others.
Payments were made from time to time on account; hut at length, in consequence of
a failure to make the payments stipulated in the coatract, and by virtue of a clause
contained in it, the contract became void.
In this state of things, Miller employed one Paulk to ascertain from Black the lowest
price that he would take for the land, and then to sl to others for the highest
price that he could get.
Paulk sold and assigned the contract to Davis for $1,050.
Upon the theory that Paulk and Davis entered into a f-audulent combination, still,
Miller and others are not entitled to demand that a court of equity should consider
Davis as a trustee of the lands for their use. They had no interest in them, legal
or equitable, nor any thing but a good will, which alone was the subject-matter of
the fraud, if there was any.
But the evidence rows that this good will did not exist; for Black was not willing
to sell to 'Miller and others for a less price than to any other person.
Although Paulk represented himself to be acting for Millr gnd others, when in reality he was representing Davis, yet he did not obtain Lho land at a reduced price
thereby; but, on the contrary, at its fair market value.
The charges of fraud in the bill are denied in the answers, and the evidence is not
sufficient to sustain the allegations.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Un.t'ed
States for the District of Maine, sitting as a court of equity.
The appellants were complainants below, whose bill was. digmissed under the circumstances stated in the opinion of the
court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Seward, for the appellants,
and by .Mr. S epley and M"fr. Rowe, for the appellees.

