DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Anderson et al. v. Bock.

REUBEN

A-NDERSON AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. -.CHAZL

BocK.

The city of 'New Orleans sold a lot in the city for a certain srm of money, the paymcnt of whi h was not eacted, but the interest of it, payable quarterly, remained
a a ground rent upon the l'jt. It was further stipulated, that if two of these payments
should be in arrear, the city could proceed judicially for the recovery of possession,
with damages, and the vendees were to forfeit their title.
Six Years afterwards, the city conveyed the Eame lot to another person, who transferred it to an assignee.
The twl of the first vendee could not be divested without some judicial proceeding,
and the dissolution of the contract could not be inferred merely from the fact that
the city had made a second conveyance.
ThervR'me, the deed to the second vendee, and from him to his assignee, were not, of
then selves, evidence to support the plea of prescription. The city, not having resurned itv title in the regular mode, could not transfer either alawful title or possession to its ,:cond vendee.
The Circuit Court having instructed the jury that, in its opinion, under the written
pro_,fs and law of the case, the plea of prescription must prevail, and the written
proofs not being in the record, this court cannot test the accuracy of its conclusion.

THrs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The facts in the case are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted, on printed briefs, by Mr. Bemis, for the
plaintiff in error, with a brief by M4essrs. Stockton and Steele,
and by .MlIr. Bealamin, for the defendant in error.

Plaintiffs' Points.
I. The charge of the court was manifestly improper and illegal, as the judge stated to the jury, "it was his opinion, that
under the written proofs and law of the case, the defence of
prescription, set up by the defendant, must prevail."
This was not a deduction for him to draw, but it was pecu-

liarly the province of the jury to decide on the evidence.

The

defence of prescription involves both matter of fact and law;
of the former the jury are exclusive judges, and of the latter

they are also judges, under the instruction of the court as to
what the law is.
This expression of opinion by the judge, in delivering his
charge, could form, legally, no part of the charge.
He does not tell the jury what the law is, but only that, as

the law stands, the proofs in the cause make out the defence
of prescription.
II. The court erred in charging the jury, that the act of sale
from the city to John Clay, datbd 18th November, 1816, and the
act of sale from Clay to defendant, dated 30th January, 1823,

SUPREME

COU.RT.

Anderson et al. v. Bock.

were of themselves evidence of possession in the defendant and
his vendor, Clay, to support the plea of prescription.
Possession is a matter in pats, and it can:aot be established by
a mere paper conveyance of the property.
II. The court erred in refusing to instruct the jury, as required l y the plaintiffs, "that by the acts of sale, dated 15th
October, 1810, from the city of New Orleans to Sticher and
Anderson, the said city transferred to Sticher and Anderson
the title and possession of the property, and that neither the
title nor possession thereof can be presumed to be afterwards
in the city; but, on the contrary, the city must show, by proper
evidence, that the title and possession again came lawfully into
its hands.
This was simply a requirement, on the part of the plaintiffs,
that the court should instruct the jury that the elder title, emanating from the city to Sticher and Anderson, must nrevail
over the younger title from the city to Clay.
The deeds to Sticher and Anderson were made on consideration of an annual ground rent, to be paid by them for a certain number of years, and the further consideration of a stipulated price, to be paid by them after the texm for the continuance of the ground rent should have expired. This term for
the continuance of the ground rent had -xpired many years
before the institution of this suit. No complaint has been
made rhat Sticher and Anderson did not pay the considerations stipulated in the deed to them. There can, then, be no
good reason why their prior title shall not prevail over the junior
title of the defendant.
Defendant's Points.
The first bill of exceptions complains, that " the judge refused
to charge the jury, that, by the act of sale, dated 15th October,
1810, from the city of New Orleans, to Sticher and Anderson,
the city transferred to them the title and pc.ssession of the property; that neither could afterwards be presumed to be in the
city, but, on the contrary, the city must show, by proper evidence, that the title and possession came lawfully into its
hands ;" and further complains that the judge, on the contrary,
charged the jury, "that the act -of sale from the city of New
Orleans to John Clay, dated the 18th November, 1816, and the
act of sale from Clay to defendant, dated the 30th January,
1823,- were of themselves evidence of possessign in the defendant, Bock, and his vendor, Clay, to support the plea of prescription set up by the defendant."
The second bill of exceptions complains that "the judge
stated to the jury, that it was his oninion, that, under the written

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

325

Anderson et al. v;Bock.
proofs and law of the case, the defence of prescription, set up
by the defendant, must prevail."
Now, in relation to these bills of exceptions, it is to be observed that aeither of them pretends on its face to set forth
all the evidence offered in the cause, but only a part of the
As regards the second bill of exceptions,
written evidence.
therefore, it is clear that this court is without the means of determhiing whether the charge of the judge was correct or not;
and, in the absence of such means, the presumption of law is,
that the judgment of the lower court was supported by the written
proofs. For aught that appears in the record, there may have
been offered in evidence a written admission by the plaintiffs
that the defendant had been in possession, as is alleged in the
answer, for a length of time sufficient to establish prescriptive
right to the property; or written contracts, receipts,,or other
documents, proving him to have inclosed and built upon the
property, or leased it to tenants, and collected rents. Without
a statement showing what the written evidence was, it is impossible to say that there was error in the charge "that under the
written proofs and law of the case, the defence of prescription
must prevail."
In order to determine the propriety of the charge complained
of in the first bill of exceptions, the issues presented by the
pleadings must be taken into consideration.
The petition alleges possession by the defendant, but asserts
the possession to be unlawful.
. The answer admits the possession, and asserts it to have
been lawful under just title for upwards of thirty years, and
sets forth the deed under which the possession was acquired,
to wit, the deed of 30th January, 1823.
The fact of possession being thus asserted by both parties,
the only question was, whether the possession was lawful, or in
good faith.
It appears, by the bill of exceptions, that the defendant
showed, as the basis of his possession, the deed from Clay, of
30th January, 1823, being at a date twenty-seven years anterior
to the institution of the suit.
By reference to the act of sale to defendant, it wvill appear,
that when it was executed, " Michael Bock, being prcsdnt delared that he accepts this act of sale and conveyane., is in
possession of the said property, and contented therewith." This

deed was in evidence without objection, exception, or reservati6n.
Now the article 2455, of the Civil Code, provides that "t1he
law considers the tradition or delivery of iinmovables as always
accompanying the public act which transfers the property."
28
VOL. XV.

326

SUPREIE COURT.
Anderson et al. v. Bock.

The judge, therefore, had before him,
1st. The admission by plaintiffs of the fact of defendant's
possession.
2d. The proof that this possession had originated in 1823, and
was held by virtue of the sale made in thaxI year, as recited in
the deed itself.
3d. The legal presumption established by article 2455 of the
actual delivery of the immoyable sold.
4th. The absence of any allegation or pretenqe by plaintiffs
of adverse possession in themselves or any other person than
the defendant between the year 1823 and the institutior of the
suit
The article 3442 of the Civil Code provides that "he who
acquires an immovable in good faith and by a just title, prescribes for it in ten years, if the real owner resides in the State,
and after twenty years if the owner resides out of the State."
It is obvious, from these premises, that the sole question before the court and jury was, whether the defendant had acquired
a good title by prescription, and that the court did not err in
charging the jury that the defence had been established.
The prayer of the plaintiff that the judge should charge the
jury in relation to the effect of the sale from the city to Sticher
and Anderson, was properly refused, because wholly irrelevant.
The question was not whether Sticher and Anderson had acquired a valid title in 1810, but whether the defendant had
subsequently acquired a good title to the same. property by
prescription, and the judge properly confined his charge to the
latter inquiry, the only one relevant to the issue.
The language of the charge is, that the azts of.sale set up by
defendants "were of themselves eyidence of possession in the
defendant, Bock, and his vendor, Clay, to support the plea of
prescription."
The Judge did not charge that these acts were conclusive or
sufficient proofs, but that they were evidence of possession; ana
that they were evidence is fully established by the terms of the
article 2455, above quoted. See also articles 3405, 6, 7, 3414,
3450.
The point in dispute is fully settled in the jurisprudence of
Louisiana.
In the case of Ellis v. Prevost et al., 13 La. Rep. 230, 235,
the principle is thus stated:
"No physica:. act, in taking posses.-ion under a sale by notarial act, is necessary. The intention
of the purchaser, which the law presumes, coupled with the
power which the act of sale gives, vests the possession in him.
The right is taken for the fact, and he is seized of the thing corporally. Article 3405 goes on to provide that when a person has

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Anderson et al. v. Bock.

once acquired corporal possession, the intention which he has
of possessing suffices to preserve it in him, although he may
have ceased to have the thing in ac ial custody."
It it, therefore, respectfully submitted that the plaintiffs have
failed to show error as alleged, and that there is no legal ground
for disturbing the verdict and judgment of the lower court.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court
The plaintiffs commenced a petitory action, as heirs at law
of Thomas Anderson, to recover a lot of land in the city of New
Orleans, of which they aver he died seised and that the defendant wrongfully detains
The defendant denied their claim to the property, and pleaded
prescription under a just and Yali- . title, with undisputed possession for upwards of thirty years.
Upon the trial, the plaintiffs produced a conveyance of the lot
by a notarial act from the city of New Orleans to Sticher and
Anderson, dated in 1810, upon the consideration of fifteen huffdred and eighty dollars. This sum was to remain a charge
upon the lot, and the interest upon it, at the rate of six per cent.
per annum, was to be paid in quarterly instalments. Upon a
failure to pay two of these instalments, the city was authorized
to proceed judicially for the recovery of possession, and for the
damages arising from a deterioration of the property, and the
vendees were to forfeit their title. The -other stipulations in
this conveyance are immaterial to the decision of the case.
The defendant relied upon a notarial act from the city of New
Orleans, dated in 1816, conveying the property in the same lot
to one Clay, upon a contract of sale, and an act dated in 1823
from Clay conveying the property to the defendant. In each of
these the vendees acknowledge that possession of the lot had
been delivered at the date of the deeds.
The plaintiffs requested the court to instruct the jury that the
city of New Orleans, by the notarial act of 1810, had transferred
to Sticher and Anderson the title, and the possession of the
property, and that neither the title nor the possession can-be presumed to be afterwards in the city, but that the city should show
that the title and possession came lawfully into its hands. This
request ,as refused by the court, atid the jury was instructed
that the deeds from the city to Clay of 1816, and from Clay to
the defendant in 1823, were of themselves evidence of possession
in the defendant and his vendor to support the plea of prescription. The court further instructed the jury that, under the written proofs and law of the case, the plea of prescription must
prevail These instructions were excepted to, and are here assigned as error.

328

SUPREME COURT.
Anderson et al. v. Bock.

The conveyance from the city to Sticher and Anderson, of
1810, was upon a resolutory condition. The contract between
the parties was not dissolved of right by the non-fulfilment of the
condition, but the party complaining of the breach might have
insisted upon its dissolution, with damages, or upon a specific
performance. C. C. 2041, 2042.
The dissolution of the contract for the non-fulfilment of the
conditions, could not be inferred merely from the fact of a subsequent conveyance by the city of the same property. The title
of the city to the"lot passed to Sticher and Anderson by the
notarial act of 1810, and, to sustain a posterior conveyance of
the city, it should'have been shown, 'either ihat the first contract
had been revoked, or that another title had been acquired. The
court erred, therefore, in refusing the instruztion requested by thp
plaintiffs.
2. To sustain a title by prescription to immovable property,
according to either of the articles of the civil code, referred to in
the pleas, the defendant was required to show "a public, unequivocal, continuous, and uninterrupted possession," "under
the title of owner." " The possessor must have held the property in fact and in right as owner," "though a civil possession
would suffice, if it had been preceded by the corporeal possession." C. C. 3466, 3467, 3453; Devall v. Choppin, 1.5 Lou,
566.
The court has been referred to the civil code, (C. C. 245.5,) to
prove that the claims of the articles of the code we have cited
are fulfilled by the public acts produced by the, defendants.
This article is "that the law considers the tradition or delivery
of immovables as always accompanying the public act which
transfers the property. Every obstacle which the seller afterwards imposes, to prevent the corporeal possession of the buyer,
is considered as a trespass.'
This article was designed to deucrare the operation of a contract for the tralisfer of property when embodied in a public act,
as between the parties to the act. It establishes, that the transfer is complete by the use of apt words of conveyance in such
an act, without the formality of a real deliyery; that the power
of control and enjoyment, transferred by a grantor in such an
act, is equivalent to a manual or physical tradition. $o exactly
the equivalent, that an "interfering obstacle," interposed by the
grantor afterwards, may be treated as ; trespass-that is,
disturbance of the possession of the grantee.
This rule from the Louisiana code, corresponding with that
of the code 'Napoleon, deviates froimthe rule of the Roman and
feudal law, which exacted a formal delivery, to perfect the
transfer of the property.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
al. v. Bock.
Anderson et
I

The rule is in complete harmony with the American system
of conveyancing, which accomplishes the cession of property,
with its incidents of possession and enjoyment, without a resort
to symbolical acts, or inconvenient ceremonies, by the consent
of the owner, legally authenticated.
This explanation of the object of the article of the code, will
enable us to define the limits of its operation. A vendor cannot
transfer a title, or a possession, which is not vested in him. He
cannot, by his conveyance or admissions, affect the claims of
persons whose title is adverse to his. It follows, therefore, that
the recitals in these acts, that possession had been delivered,
and that the vendor was satisfied therewith, are not evidence
roithat corporeal possession, which is the foundation of a pre
scriptive right, in a case like the present. Tropl. De Vente, ยง
26, 40 , C. C. 2233, 223.5; Emmerson v. Fox; 3 La. I. 183;
Ellis v. Prevost, 19 La. 251.
3. As a general rule, the possession necessary to sustain a
prescription is founded upon facts, -which it is the province of a
jury to ascertain. Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. R. 41; Beverly v.
Burke, 9 Geo. R. 4,40.
But the "written proofs," upon which the Circuit Court felt
authorized to instruct the jury that the plea of prescription must
preavail, are not exhibited in the record, and this court cannot,
therefore, test the accuracy of its conclusion.
For the errors in the charge that'we have noticed, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings.
Order.
to
be
heard on the transcript of the
'This cause came on
recotd from the Circuit- Court of the United States, for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions for further proceedings to
be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

