DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Smith v. Ely et al.

is the complainant not entitled to his costs? At law, a recovery
on one good count is sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to recover
costs; and I can see no particular equity which the defendants
can claim, who are adjudged to have pirated two inventions at
once.
I am of opinion, therefore, that the decree of the Circuit
Court should be affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Disfrict of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration, whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by
this c6urt, that the decree of the said Circuit Court, in this
cause, be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, except so much
thereof as decrees that the complainants shall recover their
costs, in the prosecution of this suit, of and from the defendants, and that that part of the said decree giving costs to the
complainants, be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and annulled.
And it is further ordered, and decreed, by this court, that the
parties, respectively, pay their own costs in this court, and in
the said Circuit Court.

FRANcIs 0. J. SMITH, PLAINTIFF, v. HnmeN B. ELY, HENRV
O'REILLY, ROBERT W. McCoy, THO-.%iAs MOODIE, MICHAEL

B.

BATEHAM, LINCOLN GOODALE, WRAY THoirAs, ALBERT
BUTTLES AND ROBERT NEIL.

B.

The preceding case of O'Reilly and Morse having settled the principles involved in
the controversy between them, this court declines to hear an argument upon tech-

nical points of pleading in a branch of the case cotaing from another State.
The case is remanded to the Circuit Conrt.

T-is cause came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, upon a certificate of division in
opinion between the judges thereof.
An action was brought by Smith, as the assignee of Morse
and Vail, against Ely, O'Reilly, and others, for an infringement
of Morse's patent rights to the telegraph, which are particularly
set forth in the report of the preceding case.
The first count of the declaration was upon the patent of
1840, surrendered and reissued in 1846.
12*

138

SUPREME COU:RT.
Smith v. Ely et al.

The second count was upon the paten; for improvements in
transmitting and recording intelligence, by the usp of the motive
power of electricity. Both of these patents were surrendered,
and reissued in 1848.
The defendants filed eighteen pleas. On the 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th,
and 10th, the plaintiff took issue. He demurred to the remaining pleas, and upon some of these demurrers the court were
divided.
All that need to be stated in explanation of the case, will be
to state the difference of opinion, and refer to the pleas.
And afterwards, to wit, on the twenty-third day of October,
being in the year and at the time of said court last mentioned,
"this cause came on to be heard at the present term upon the
demurrers filed by the plaintiff to the sixth, seventh, eighth,
ninth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth special pleas of the defendants. And thereupon, the arguments of counsel being heard,
and due deliberation being had, the opinion of the judges of
said court were divided as to the following questions, to wit:
I. Upon the demurrer to the sixth and seventh pleas, respectively, whether the said letters-patent to the said Morse are void,
for the reason that the same do not on their face respectively
express that they are to run for fourteen years from the date of
the patent issued to said Morse in the kingdom of France.
IL Whether, upon the demurrer to tie eighth, ninth, and
eighteenth pleas, said letters-patent to said Morse assume, as to
the matter alleged in said eighteenth plea, to patent a principle,
or a thing which is not an art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any improvement on any art, machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter; and if so, whether, and
to what extent, said letters-patent, or any part thereof, are void
in consequence thereof; and also whether said pleas are bad,
respectively, for the reason that they assume to answer certain
material and -substantial 'parts of the plaiatiff's claim, without
averring that there are no other material and substantial parts
embraced in his claim, which can be distinguished from the
other parts averred to be so claimed without right, and on which
he would be entitled to recover.
II. Whether, upon the demurrers to the fourteenth and fifteenth pleas, said patent, issued April llth, 1846, and reissued
June 13, 1848, is void; and if so, to what extent; for the reason
that it embraces as a material and substantial part thereof, a
material and substantial part of a former patent issued to said
Morse.
IV. Whether, upon the demurrers to the eighth, ninth, fourteenth, and fifteenth pleas, said letters-patent issued to said

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

139

Smith v. Ely et al.

Morse are void, for the reason, as averred in said pleas, that he
was not the original and firsf. inventor of the several matters
in said pleas respectively set forth; but the same had been,
prior to said invention by said Iorse, known and used in a
foreign country.
The substance of these pleas was as follows:
6th. This plea alleges, that on the 18th of August, 1838,
Morse took out a patent in France for the same invention patented to him in his letters of June 20, 1840 ; but that the latter
were made to run fourteen years from date, instead of fourteen
years from the date of the French letters.
7th. This plea states the same as the sixth, and that Morse's
French patent was issued more than six months next before he
filed his specification and drawings, annexed to the letters-patent
of June 20, 1840.
Upon the demurrers to these two pleas the court were divided
as mentioned in the first question of division.
8th. This plea sets out with the patents of 1840, as reissued,
and then allges that "the use of the motive power of the electric or galvanic current, however developed, for marking, or
printing hitelligible characters, signs, or letters, at any distances,"
is a substantial and material part of the thing patented; and it
states that Morse was not the original and first inventor or discoverer of the thing patented, but that the same was known
before to one Dr. Steinheil, of Munich, and used on a line from
Munich to Bogenhausen.
The principles claimed and patented in the letters of 1840,
referred to in the 8th and 9th pleas, are as follows, to wit:
" What I specially claim as my invention and improvement
is, making use of the motive power of magnetism, -when developed by'the action of such current or currents substantially as
set forth in the foregoing description of the first principal part
of my invention, as means of operating, or giving motion to,
machinery which may be used to imprint signals upon paper,
or other suitable materials, or to produce sounds in any desired
manner for the purpose of telegraphic communication of any
distances."
.Eightli. "I do not propose to limit myself to the specific machinery, or parts of machinery, described in the foregoing specification and claims, the essence of my invention being the use of
the motive power of the electric or galvanic current, which I call
electro-magnetism, however developed, for marking or printing
intelligible characters, signs, or letters, at any distances -being
a new application of that power, of which I claim to be the
first inventor or discoverer."
9th. In this plea the defendants allege that -he mode and

140

SUPREME COURT.
Smith v. Ely et al.

process of propelling and connecting curents of electricity, or
galvanism, through two or more metallic conductors, is a substantial and material part of the thing patented in the letters of
1840; and they aver that Morse was not the original and first
inventor or discoverer thereof, but the same was known to one
Edward Davy, in England."
18th. In this plea the defendants allege that "the use of motive power of the electro-galvanic current, however developed,
for marking and printing intelligible characters, signs, or letters,
at any distances," is a substantial and material part of the thing
patented, and is distinctly claimed by the patentee in the specification; and he avers that the thing, so patented and claimed,
is not any art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter,
or any improvement on them.
The demurrers to these three pleas raise the questions secondly
certified to this court.
14th. In this plea the defendant sets out the patent of 1846,
as reissued to, and states that "the combination of a pen-lever,
pen-point or points, and roller," mentioned in the patent, is
a substantial and material part of the thing patented; and they
aver that it was before known, and formed a part of an electromagnetic telegraph for -which Morse had taken out letters-patent
in 1840.
15th. In this plea the defendants allege that, "the mode of
combining two or more circuits of electricity or galvanism,
mentioned and described in the specification annexed to the
said letters-patent as an improvement, is d substantial and material part of the thing patented ;" and they aver that in electromagnetic telegraphs, before known, modes of combining, on the
same principle described in the specificatiDn, two or more circuits of electricity or galvanism, existed, and formed a part
thereof, to wit, in one patented to Morse, June 20, 1840; to
Edward Davy, of London, July 4,1838, by the Queen of Great
Britain. This plea also states that Wrtse, in patent of 1846,
does not specify and point out the improvement in the said
mode of combining two or more circuits made by him, so as to
distinguish the same from the said m( des before known and
patented by him and by Davy.
The third question certified to this court is raised by demurrers
to these 'two pleas.
The fourth question is raised by demurrers to pleas 8, 9, 14,
15, above set forth.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.:
The plaintiff in error is the assignee, within a certain tract of
country, of the two patents gtrtnted to Morse for his Electro-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

141

Smith v. Ely ot al.

Magnetic Telegraph, one in 1840, and the other in 1846, and
both reissued in 1848. And this action was brought in the
Circuit Court for the District of Ohio, for infringements of both
of these patents, within the limits assigned to the plaintiff.
The defendants did not proceed in their defence in the manner authorized by the act of Congress, but pleaded the general
issue, and seventeen special pleas. Upon some of these pleas
issue was joined, and others were demurred to; and, upon the
argument of the demurrers, the judges of the court were divided
in opinion on the following questions, which they have certified for decision to this court.
"I. Upon the demurrer to the sixth and seventh pleas respectively whether the said letters-patent to the said Morse are void,
for the reason that the same do not on their face respectively
express that they are to run for fourteen years from the date of
the patent issued to said Morse in the kingdom of France.
IL Whether, upon the demurrer to the eighth, ninth, and
eighteenth pleas, said letters-patent to said Morse assume, as to
the matter alleged in said eighteenth plea, to patent a principle,
or a thing which is not an art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any improvement on any art, machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter; and if so, whether, and
to what extent, said letters-patent, or any part thereof, are void
in consequence thereof, and alo whether said pleas are bad,
respectively, for the reason that they assume to answer certain
material and substantial parts of the plaintiff's claim, without
averring that there are no other material and substantial parta
embraced in his claim, which can be distinguished from the
other parts averred to be so claimed without right, and on which
he would be entitled to recover.
III. Whether, upon the demurrers to the fourteenth and fifteenth pleas, said patent, issued April llih, 1846, and reissued
June 13th, 1848, is void; and if so, to what extent; for the
reason that it embraces as a material and substantial part
thereof, a material and substantial part of a former patent issued
to said M'orse.
IV. Whether, upon the demurrers to the eighth, ninth, fourteenth, and fifteenth pleas, said letters-patent issued to said
Morse are void, for the reason, as averred in said pleas, that he
was not the original and first inventor of the several matters in
said pleas respectively set forth; but the same had been, prior
to said invention by said Morse, known and used in a foreign

country."
The questions certified, so far as they affect the merits of the
case, have all been substantially decided in the case of Morse
and others v. O'Reilly and others, at the present term. But

142

SUPREME COURT.
Smith v. Ely et al.

several questions are presented by the certificate upon the construction of the pleas and the extent of the admissions made by
the demurrers, and the legal effect of such admissions upon the
plaintiff's right of action.
In relation to the questions which go to the merits, as they
have been already fully heard and decided in the case abovementioned, they are not open for argument in this case; and it
would be a useless and fruitless consumption of time to hear an
argument upon the technical questions alone. For, however the
points of special pleading might be ruled by this court, they
could have no material influence on the ultimate decision of the
case: because, if it is found that errors in pleading have been
committed by either party, injurious to his rights, an opportunity
ought and would certainly be afforded him to correct them in
some subsequent proceeding, so as to bring the real points in
controversy fairly before the court.
For these reasons, the motion of the counsel for the defend'
ants for leave to argue the points certified, is overruled, and the
case, remanded to the Circuit Court.
Under such circumstances, we deem it proper to remand the
case, without arg" ment, to the Circuit Co art for the District of
Ohio, where eith r party may amend his pleadings, and where
the defendants, if they can distinguish their case from that above
mentioned, will have an opportunity of being heard.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the t'anscript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Ohio, and on the points or questions on which the judges of the
said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were
certified to this court for it opinion, agreeably to the acts of
Congress in such case made and provided, and it appearing to
this court that the said questions, so far as they affect the merits
of the case, have been substantially decided by this court at this
term, in the case of O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al., it is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this
cause, without argument, be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said Circuit Court, with directions to permit either party
to amend his pleadings, and also to allow the defendants an
opportunity to distinguish their case, if they can, from that above
referred to.

