DECEM1BER TERM1, 1853.
Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

THE NORTHERN INDIANA RAILROAD CO3IPANY, AND THE BOARD
OF COMMIISSIONERS FOR THE WESTERN DIVISION OF THE
BLFFALO AND MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD, APPELLANTS, V. THE

MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD COPA-'-.
The Michigan Central Railroad Company, established in 'Michigan, made an agree.
ment with the New Albany and Salem Railroad Company, established in Indiana,
that the former would build and work a road in Indiana, under the charter of the
latter.
Another company, also established in Indiana, called the Northern Indiana Railroad
Corapiny, claiming an exclusive right to that part of Indiana, filed a bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of 3lichigan, against the Michigan company, praying an iniunction to prevent the construction of the road under
the above agreement.
The Circuit Court had no jurisdiction over such a case.
The zuhjeet-matter of the controversy lies beyond the limits of the district, and where
the process of the court cannot reach the lccas in quo.
Moreover, the rights of the New Albany Company are seriously involved in the controversy, and they are not made parties to the suit. The act of Congress. providing
for thenon-joinder of parties who are not inhabitants of the district, does not apply
to stch i caso as the present.

Tuis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the District of iichigan, sitting as a court of equity.
The appellants were complainants below. They were corporations created by, and doing business in, the State of
Indiana, claiming a prior right to make and use a railroad
running from east to west across the northern part of Indiana,
The defendants were a company incorporated by Michigan,
and had made a road from Detroit to Michigan City. Being
desirous to continue the road round the southern end of Lake
1\iichigan, they entered into an agreement, for this purpose,
with a company, incorporated by Indiana, called the New
Albany and Salem Railroad Company, The appellants filed
a bill in Michigan, the domicil of the Michigan Central Railroad Company, praying for an injunction to prevent them from
entering upon or using the said lands of said complainants, and
from grading and excavating upon the same, and from hindering the complainants from completing their road and using the
same exclusively, and from constructing and Ysing the railroad
which the defendants have laid out, or any railroad upon or near
the line where the same is located, and from doing any thing in
violation of the exclusive rights of the complainants.
To this bill the defendants demurred, and the Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, with costs.
The complainants appealed to this court.
It was argued by M11r. Bronson, for the appellants, and by M'r.
_Piuyn, and tr. Tay, for the appellees.
20 *

SUPREME COURT.
Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigain Central Railroad Co.

The arguments branched out into several heads, but it is only
necessary to notice those bearing upon the question of jurisdiction, arising from locality and the want of proper parties.
Mfr. Bronson, for appellants.
ixth Point. The New Albany and Salem Company is not
a necessary party.
First. The defendants have done, and threaten to do, the
wrong of which we complain. It is a tort or trespass upon our
rights, for which the wrongdoers are answerable, whoever may
stand behind them. No one Itanding behind a trespasser,
whatever may be the relation between them, has a right to say
that he must be made a party, when the person injured seeks
redress against the transgressor. We demand nothing as
against the New Albany and Salem Company. Kerr v. ;as,
6 Wheat. 550.
If the New Albany and Salem Company was made a party,
the rights existing between that company and the defendants,
whatever those rights may be, could nol be adjusted in this
suit.
Secorld. The relation between the New Albany and Salem
Company and the defendants is that of grantor and grantee;
and it is never necessary to make the grantor a party to a suit
against the grantee, except in real actions, where the grantee
vouches the grantor to warranty.
The New Albany and Salem Company has sold its franchise,
so far as relates to the road. in question, to the defendants, and
the pretended right to repurchase is only colorable.
(1.) There is no mortgage, because there is no debt or obligation to pay. Conway v. Alexander, 7 Cranch, 218, 237;
my v. Wilber, 2 Wood. & Minot, 371; Glover v. . ayn, 19
Wend. 518.
(2.) There is nothing like the relation of principal and agent.
The defendants are doing work for themselves only.
Third. If the relation between the two companies is that of
mortgagor and mortgagee, or principal and agent it is still
enough that we bring into court the party who has done and
is doing the wrong, when -e ask no redress against the other.
The New Albany and Salem Company could not, by any
form of contract with the defendants, entitle themselves to be
made parties to assist against the defendants as tort-feasors.
Fourth. The New Albany and Saler Company is not a
necessary party, because it cannot be joined without ousting
the jurisdiction of the court.
(1.) The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, as the suit now
stands, cannot be questioned. The matter in dispute exceeds

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

235

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

five hundred dollars, (page 10.) The complainants are corporations created by, and doing business in, Indiana. The
defendants are a corporation created by. and doing business in,
Michigan. The suit is, therefore, between citizens of different
States. Louisville R. R. Co. v. Letson, 2 Howard, 497. And
the suit is brought in Michigan, where the defendants reside.
(2.) The New Albany and Salem Company is a corporation
created by, and doing business in Indiana, page 6.
That company cannot be made a defendant in this suit, for
the reasons,
1. It is a citizen of the same State with the complainants;
and
2. It cannot be arrested or served with process in the District
of Indiana, where it resides, for trial in the District of Michigan,
where the suit is brought, and the trial is to be had. Judiciary
Act, of 1789, ยง 11.
The courts of the United States have always been disposed
to get rid of an objection for the non-joinder of a party who
was beyond the jurisdiction of the court, or whose joinder
would oust the court of jurisdiction.
And the case is now fully provided for by Congress, and the
rules of the court.
Act of February28, 1839.Sect. 1. " That where, in any suit at law or in equity, commenced in any court of the United States, there shall be several
defendants, any one or more of whom shall not be inhabitants
of, or found within, the district where the suit is brought, .or
shall not voluntarily appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the
court to entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and
adjudication of such suit, betv-etn the parties who may be properly before it; but the judgment or decree rendered therein
shall not conclude or preclude other parties not regularly served
with process, or not-voluntarily appearing to answer; and the
non-joinder of parties who are not inhabitants, or found within
the district, shall constitute no matter of abatement or other
objection to said suit."
.Rulesof Practicefor the Court of Equity. of the United States,
adopted January Terni, 1842.
Rule 22. "If any person, other than those named as defendants in the bill, shall appear to he necessary or proper pa -. es
thereto, the bill shall aver the reason why they are not made
parties, by showing them to be without the jurisdiction of the
court, or that they cannot be joined without ousting the jurisdiction of the court as to the other parties." 1 Howard, 48.

236

SUPREME COURT.

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

The proper averment has been made in. the bill, by showing
that the New Albany and Salem Company is without the jurisdiction of the court, and cannot be joined. without ousting the
jurisdiction of the court. Ketchum v. Faimers Loan and Trust
Company, 4 McLean, 1; Culbertson v. Wabash Navigation
Company, Id. 544.
Rule 47. Union Bank of Louisiana v. Stafford, 12 Howard,
327, 341-3; New Orleans Canal and Banking Company v.
Stafford, Id. 343, 346; McCoy v. Rhodes, 11 ld. 131, 141.
The counsel for the appellees made the following points:
As to -want of jurisdiction from locality- The Circuit Court
in Michigan had no jurisdiction in the case. Whether the
defendants act under the authority of law or not, the alleged
cause of complaint is local, and the bill c.n only be maintained
in Indiana. 6 Cranch, 158; Chitty, P1. 268; 1 Atk. 544; 3
Vesey, 183; 10 Vesey, 164; 3 Atk. 589; 1 Sumn. 504; 1 H. &
J. 223; 1 Vesey, sen. 446.; 1 Bibb, 409.
As to the want of proper parties - The deferidafits contend
that the case cannot go on, even to a hearing, without the
presence of the New Albany and Salem. Railroad Company.
The injustice of hearing and deciding the case -without giving
that company an opportunity to be heard, is manifest, and most
clearly so. It claims the right and authority to construct a
railroad from New Albany to the Illinois line, making Michigan
City, at the head of Lake Michigan, th a termination of the
Michigan Central Road, a point, and to nortgage the whole or
any part of the road constructed, or proposed to be constructed,
to obtain money wherewith to build. It has entered into an
arrangement -with the Michigan Central Company to advance
money enough to construct, and to construct, as the agent of
that company, that part of the road west cf Michigan City, and
to take in addition thereto $500,000 of sto -k, which said money
is to be expended, one fifth south and four fifths north of Lafayette and south of Michigan City, and ior the punctual payment of the subscriptions of stock it holds as absolute security
all the road from Michigan City to the Illinois line complete
and running; with the right to declare forfeited and null all the
rights of the Michigan Central Company, in case of its default
in paying its subscriptions of stock. It has mortgaged its entire
line of road from New Albany to Michigan City, and upon the
credit thereof, has obtained loans to large amounts, which are
rapidly completing the road through its entire distance. It is
still in the money market to dispose of about a million and a
half of unsold mortgage bonds to complete entirely the work,
the most important, by far, in the State of Indiana. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

237

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

farmer, merchant, and mechanic, from one end of the State to
the other, are its stockholders.
Now, upon all these vast interests, the decree of this court,
if it can make one against these defendants, must act directly.
It is the charter of the New Albany and Salem Company which
is in controversy. The powers claimed by it will be struck out
of existence. Its arrangements with the Michigan Company
will be declared null and void. Its road west of Michigan City
-will be struck out of legal existence. Its security for $500,000
of stock destroyed. Its road south of Mlichigan City towards
Lafayette complete more than half, and nearly complete the
whole distance, blotted out. Its credit in the money market, its
stock and its bonds sold, will be mined, and all this in a suit
where that company cannot be heard. Is this possible in a
court of equity? And yet this suit cannot go on, and the complainants succeed, without all these disastrous results. They
are the direct results of the decree sought, and of the allegations
in the bill; and the rights of the New Albany and Salem Company are all the rights in controversy, the Michigan Central
Company claim none of themselves, and exercise none except
as the New Albany and Salem Company are empowered to
grant them.
That the welfare, nay, the fate, of the New Albany Company, of its stocks, bonds, its entire interests, depends upon this
question, there can be no doubt. Can this case go on without
making that company -n.party? Shall a decision be had which
may destroy it, when, if here, it might make a showing and a
defence which the present defendants know nothing of? There
needs nothing to show the injustice of thus acting.
" But the rule of law here runs with equity and justice. All
persons interpsted, either legally or ben-ficially, in the subject.
matter of the suit, are to be made parties to it, either as plaintiffs or defendants, so that a complete decree shall be made,
which shall bind them all. By this means the court will make
a complete decree to prevent future litigation, and to make it
perfectly certain that no injustice is done either to the parties
before it or to others who are interested in the subject-matter by
decree, which might otherwise be grounded upon a partial view
only of the real merits. When all parties are before the court
the whole case may be seen, but it may not where all the conflicting interests are not brought out by the pleadings by the
parties thereto." Story's Pleadings, p. 74, sections 72 and 75.
"1If the proper parties are not made to a bill, even though
there be a decree, yet it will bind none but the parties to a suit,
so that all the evils of fruitless or inadequate litigation may be
visited upon the successful party to the original suit, by leaving

238

SUPREME COURT.

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

his title still open to future question and controversy."

Story,

ยง 75.
Here the New Albany Company would not be bound. It
would, in its own courts, seek to enforce its rights under the
contracts with the defendants. The State courts would not be
bound even by a decree of this court construing the statutes of
the State, and this court might be compelled to reverse its own
decisions on such a question. What would be the position of
the two companies in such a case?
This question is fully discussed also in the following cases:
Platt and Oliver, 2 McLean, 305; 4 Peters, 202.
We are aware that there are exceptions to this rule, but they
are all cases where complete justice can be done between the
parties before the court, without prejudice to the rights and
interests of parties not before it. Story's Pleadigs, sections 77,
81, 83, 89, 94, 96, 154, 191, 192, 193.
Agents are not proper parties to a bill, because they have no
interest in the subject-matter. There is one instance, however,
and that is where a discovery may be sought from a corporation
in which officers may be joined, though Judge Story evidently
did not think this exception founded upon principle. Story's
Pleadings, 204, ยง 235.
We are not unaware of the remarks which fell from Mr.
Justice Baldwin, in the case Bonaparte v. The Camden and
Amboy Railroad Company. He there seems to think that
because an agent can be sued for a trespass, he can be impleaded
in the Court of Chancery, and the principles upon which the
two courts act in allowing suits against agents are the same,
and he reasons from cases at law to cases in equity. There
may be no doubt that an agent may be, in a multitude of cases,
sued at law, when the right of his principal could not be determined and settled in a suit in equity against him alone. The
case of Osbolne against the United States bears no analogy to
this. There was in that case no possibility that the decree of
the court could operate injuriously to any other parties; and in
the case of Bonaparte, the railroad cornpany was made a
party, and could be heard.
That case also differs from this in many respects. There
were no such relations there subsisting between the railroad
company and its agents, as subsist between the defendants and
the New Albany and Salem Company. The decree for an
injunction would not cut through such vast interests, and work
such wide, sweeping destruction io manifold interests as would
an adverse decree in this case. That case -differs from this also
in this: that was a bill to enjoin against committing a trespass
which would be the cause of an irreparable. injury, and imme-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

239

Nortbern Indiana Railroad Co. v. M~ichigan Central Railroad Co.
diate and decisive 6ction was necessary to avert the ruin. Here
is no such thing. Here the bill is merely to test the legal right,
-which in truth should be tried in an action of ejectment. It is
not to prevent a trespass, but to procure a decision whether the
New Albany and Salem Railroad Company have the legal
right to maintain a railroad where it has constructed and laid it
down, and is now operating it. It sufficiently appears from the
bill that the road had been constructed before the bill was filed.
It had, in fact, been constructed for some months, and passenger
trains had been run over it for a long period of time. The
controversy is, then, not to prevent an irreparable trespass, but
to dispute the right of the New Albany and Salem Company
to maintain its road where it has long been built and in operation, and was so before the road of the complainants was built;
to dispute its right to mortgage it to the defendants, and to procure a decree that its asserted rights are null and void, and
securities held by it and mortgages made by it are .all null and
void; and to enjoin against the maintaining and using its road;
and all this without giving it a chance to be heard. It would
seem as if there could be no need of argument in such a case
in a court of equity.
It is no answer to these questions to say that the jurisdiction
of this court will be ousted if the New Albany and Salem Company is made a party. The court cannot go on and do justice
unless that company is a party, and that is always a reason
why the suit should be dismissed. 3 Sumner, 426; 3 Russell
& Mylne, 83; 2 Mason, 181; 3 Swanston, 140-5.
The act of Congress of 1839 cannot aid the complainants
in this case. That act did not intend to overthrow the fundamental principles upon which a court of chancery acts,-and determine the rights of one party in a suit against another. That
act simply provides that the court shall go on with the suit
against the party who shall appear; but the decree shall not
affect the rights of the party who does not appear; that is,
that the court shall exercise its jurisdiction where it may do so
without prejudice to the rights 'of parties in interest Who do
not appear, or have not been made parties. Act of Feb. 28,
1839, see. 1.
This does not at all change the principles which are fundamental with courts of equity upon questions of jurisdiction.
See 14 Peters, 66.
In order to change the universal rule of the court, and alter
its practice in fundamental points, the act of Congress should
be express, and its intention to do so expressed with irresistible clearness and force. 1 Peters's Cond. Rep. 425.

SUPRUIME

COURT.

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Mkichigan Central Railroad Co,

Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery, from thE. Circuit Court of the
District of Michigan.
The Northern Indiana Railroad Company, and the Board of
Commissioners for the Western Division of the Buffalo and
Mississippi Railroad, corporations created by, and doing business in, the State of Indiana, filed their bill in the Circuit Court,
stating that an act of the legislature of Indiana, dated February
6th;. 183.5, incorporated the Buffalo and Mississipi Railroad
Company. That by a subsequent act of le legislature, of February 6th, 1837, the name of the corporation was changed to
that of the "Northern Indiana Railroad Company;" that by
an act of the 8th of February, 1848, the "Board of Commissioners for the Western Division of the Buffalo and Mississippi
Railroad," were incorporated. That several acts of the legislature of Indiana were passed, confirming, amending, and enlarging the charters and franchises of the same corporations;
that by virtue of said laws the complainarts are severally entitled to do and perform business in the State of India, as authorized by their said charters.
That the Northern Indiana Railroad Company, after being
duly organized, e-. imined, surveyed, marked, and located the
route of their raihoad, and by the means specified in the aforesaid acts, procured the right of way for siaid railroad, as the
same has been constructed, and become seiset1 in fee of the
right to the lands acquired for that purpose, with all the privileges and franchises in relation thereto, confirmed and declared
by the said acts; and that the route of that part of the western division of said railroad, lying between Michigan City, in
the county of Laporte, and the western line of the State of
Indiana, was duly surveyed and located, and the right of way
duly acquired. That a part. included in said location consists
of a strip of ground eighty feet in width, extending from Michigan Cit to the west line of the State of Indiana, and that the
railroad has been constructed and is in operation, -from Elkhart to Lapor., and from Michigan City to the west line of the
State of Indiana.
And the complainants say that they have purchased, and
now own in fee-simple, certain other lands situated on or near
the line of said railroad, which is deemed necessary for the
business and purposes of said railroad. And they aver That
they commenced their road within the time required, and have
prosecuted the same, as by the several acts above referred to,
they were required to do. That among te rights and privileges under their charters, is the sole and exclusive right and
privilege of building, maintaining, and using'a railroad along

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad

o.

the general route of the road. And they insist that no charter
can be lawfully granted to any other company to construct any
other road or roads, in the vicinity of said railroad, which would
materially interfere, injuriously, with the profits of said road,
-without the consent of the complainants, which has not been
given.' That the legislature of Indiana has no power to establish such. a road, there being no such power reserved in the
original charter.
And the complainants allege the 'Michigan Central Railroad, a corporation created by, and doing business in, the State
of Michigan, were incorporated for the purpose of constructing
and using a railroad from Detroit. in the State of Michigan,
to some point in the same State upon Lake Michigan, accessible to steamboats navigating said lake; and with authority
to extend their road to the southern boundary of the State of
Michigan; that said company have constructed and now keep
in use, a railroad from Detroit to New Buffalo, and thence to
the southern line of the State of Mlichigan in the direction towards Michigan City, in the State of Indiana; and that by an
arrangement with the Commissioners of the Western Division
of the Buffalo and Mississippi Railroad Company, the road
has been extended and is now in use to Michigan City.
And the complainants further allege, that the New Albany
and Salem Railroad Company is a corporation created by and
under certain acts of the legislature of the State of Indiana,
and, doing business therein, has no power or franchise to construct, or to authorize the construction, of any railroad whatsoever, except what is contained in certain statutes referred to
in the bill. That said company, and the defendants, the Michigan Central Railroad Company, on or about the 24th of April,
1851, entered into a contract with each other, which contract is
in the possession of the defendants, and a discovery of the same
is prayed, and that it may be produced. That by color of said
contract the defendants claim the right to construct and use a
railroad from Michigan City to the western line of the State of
Indiana, by a route nearly parallel with the complainants' railroad, and in its immediate vicinity, and several times crossing
the same; and also the right and power to locate, construct, and
use such railroad, over and across the complainants' road, with
the exclusive franchises and privileges aforesaid, as they, the
defendants, shall see fit.
That the defendants have so laid out the route of their road
from Mlichigan City to the western line of the State of Indiana,
as to cross the complainants' railroad upon lands, the title of
which was acquired by, and is now held by the complainants,
and upon which their railroad has been constructed, with the
VOL. XV.

21

242

SUPREME, COURT.

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

purpose and intent of obstructing and unlawfully interfering
with the possession, occupancy, and use of the complainants'
lands, and with the intent to hinder and molest them, in the enjoyment and use of the rights and franchises granted to them by
the legislative acts stated, and to defeat
the exclusive right to
vicinity.
have and use a railroad within that
And after stating many other facts having a bearing upon
the New Albany and Salem Railroad Corapany; and, as they
allege, conducing to show a want of right in that company to
extend their road to Michigan City, and from thence to the
western line of the State of Indiana, near to and parallel with
the complainants' road, as above stated, they pray that the defendants may be enjoined from the construction of their road, &c.
The defendants filed a general demurrer to the bill, and a
decree was entered in the Circuit Court, sustaining the demurrer
and dismissing the bill.
At the threshold of this case, the question of jurisdiction
arises. It is not controverted, that the road of the defendants,
against which the injunction is prayed, has been constructed,
not only from Michigan City to the Western line of the State
of Indiana, but to Chicago, in the State of Illinois. The demurrer admits the facts charged in the bill, and they are also
established in part by surveys of both roads.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of -the Jnited States, is
limited to controversies between citizens of different States,
except in certain cases, and to the district in which it sits. In
this case we shall consider the question of jurisdiction in regard
to the district only. In all cases of contract, suit may be brought
in the Circuit Court where the defendant may be found. If
sued out of the district in which he lives, under the decisions
he may object, but this is a privilege which he may -vaive.
Wherever the jurisdiction of the person will enable the Circuit
Court to' give effect to its judgment or decree, jurisdiction may
be" exercised. - But wherever the subject-mater in controversy
is local, and lies beyond the limit of the dietrict, no jurisdiction
attaches to the Circuit Court, sitting within it. An action of
ejeetment cannot be maintained in the district of Michigan, for
land ii any other district. Nor can an action of trespass quare
clausumfregit be prosecuted, where the act complained of was
not done in. the district.
Both of these actions are local in their character, and must
be prosecuted, where the process of the court; can reach the locus
in quo,
The complainants allege that the defendants have built a railroad, crossing their road several times, have entered upon their
grounds, and, by building a parallel road so near asto carry the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

243

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

same line of passengers and freight, their franchise has been impaired, That they have an exclusive right to run a railroad on
the route gtated, and that they have been seriously injured by
the defendants' road.
This remedy by injunction is given to prevent a wrong, for
which an action at law can give no adequate redress. In its
nature it is preventive justice. Where the wrong has been inflicted before an injunction was applied for, it may be a matter
of doubt, in most cases, whether an action at law -would not be,
at first, the appropriate remedy. But whether the relief sought be
at law or in chancery, the question ofjurisdigtion equally applies.
In his conflict of laws, AIr. Justice Story says, (sec. 463,) not
only real but mixed actions, such as trespass upon real property
are properly referable to the forum r, ( sita. Skinner v. East
India Company, Law Rep. 168; Doulson v. Matthews, 4 Terra
R. 503; Watts v. Kinney, 6 Hill, N. Y. Rep. 82. But he says a
court of chancery, having authority to act in personam will act
indiiectly, and under qualifications, upon real estate situate in a
foreign country by reason of this authority over the person, and
it will compel him to give effect to its decree, by a conveyance,
release, or otherwise, respecting such property." Foster v. Vassail, 3 Atk. 589; 1 Equity Cases, Abr. 133; Penn v. Lord.
Baltimore, 1 Yes. 444; Lord Cranstown v. Johnson, 3 Yes. 182,
183; White v. Hall, 12 Ves. 323; Lord Portarlington v. Soulby, 3 Mylne & Keen, 104; Massie v. Wats, 6 Cranch, 148, 160.
In this last case the Chief Justice says, "Upon the authority of
these cases, (cited,) and of others -which are to be found in the
books, as well as upon general principles, this court is of opinion
that, in a case of fraud of trust, or of contract, the jurisdiction
of a court of chancery is sustainable wherever the person be
found, although lands not within the jurisdiction of that court
may be affected by the decree." In another part of the opinion
he says, " Was this, therefore, to be considered as involving a
naked question of title; was it, for example, a dontest between
Watts and Powell, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Kentucky would not be sustained."
If the court had acquired jurisdiction of the person by his being within the State,-they will compel him, by attachment, to
do his duty under his contract or trust, and -enforce the decree
in, tern, by his executing and conveying or otherwise, as justice
may require, in respect to lands abroad. White v. White, 7
Gill & Johnson, 208; Vaughan v. Barclay, 6 Wharton, 392;
Watkins v. Holman, 16 Peters, 25.
The controversy before us does not arise out of a contract,
nor is it connected with a trust expressed or implied. An exclusive right is claimed by the. complainants, under their char-

244

SUPREME COURT.

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

ters, and the legislative acts of Indiana connected therewith, to
construct and use a railroad, as they have done, from the city
of Michigan, to the western line of the State. And they complain that the defendants have unlawfully entered upon their
grounds, constructed a road crossing the co'mplainants' road several times, and materially injuring it, by constructing a road
parallel to it. Relief is prayed for an injury threatened or done
to their real estate in Indiana, and to their franchise, which is
inseparably connected with the realty in that State.
In the investigation of this case, rights to real estate must be
examined, which have been acquired by pvrchasc, or by a summary proceeding under the laws of Indiana. This applies,
especially, to the ground on which the complainants' road is constructed, and to other lands which have bcen obtained, for the
erection of facilities connected with their road. And, in addition to this, the chartered rights claimed by the defendants, and
the right asserted by them to construct their road as they have
done, crossing the complainants' road and running parallel to it,
must also be investigated. Locality is connected with every
claim set up by the complainants, and with every wrong charged
against the defendants. In the course of such an investigation,
it may be necessary to direct an issue to try the title of the parties, or to assess the damages complained 6f in the bill.
It will readily be admitted, that no acton at law could be
sustained in the district of iVichigan, on such ground, for injuries done in Indiana. No action of ejectment, or for trespass
on real property, could have a more decidedly local character
than the appropriate remedy for the injuries complained of.
And is this character changed by a bill in chancery? By such a
procedure, we acquire jurisdiction of the defendants, but the
subject-matter being local, it cannot be reached by a chancery
jurisdiction, exercised in-the State of ich:igan. A State court
of Michigan, having chancery powers, may take the same jurisdiction, in relation to this matter, which belongs to the Circuit
Court of the United States, sitting in the district of Michigan.
And it is supposed that no court in that state, could assume
such a jurisdiction.
But there remains another ground of objection to the jurisdiction in this case. The New Albany and Salem Railroad Company is not made a party to this suit
.san excuse for this
omission, it is alleged, in the bill, that this company being a corporation by the laws of the State of Indiana, of the same State
as the complainants, it cannot be made a party without ousting
the jurisdiction of the court. This is true; a 2d if the relief prayed for by the complainants can be given without impairing the
rights of this company, under the act of 1839, the jurisdiction
may be exercised.

DECEMBER TERAM

1853.

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

The complainants contend that this company is not a necessary party, and that no decree is asked against it.
The right claimed by defendants to construct their road as
stated in the bill, was derived solely from the New Albany and
Salem Company. The contract under which this claim is made,
is referred to in the bill, and is, consequently, a part of it. It is
stated in the contract that this.company, "both for the public
good and their own interest, deemed it important to extend its
road to Michigan City, and thence westward by the State line
of Illinois, &c. And it is also stated that the MiEchigan Central
Railroad Company were willing to subscribe for five hundred
thousand dollars of the stock of the New Albany and Salem
Railroad Company upon certain conditions, as well as to build
the entire line of railroad from Michigan City to the Illinois State
line, provided they can have the use and control of the same,
until the costs of the same'shall be reimbursed to it, &c. The
payment of the stock to the New Albany road, as one of the
conditions, was fo be made by instalments stipulated, a large
part of which are yet unpaid. And to reimburse the Michigain
Company a million of dollars were assumed as the cost of the
road, from Michigan City to the western line of the State, which
sum, if paid in forty years, with interest at five per cent. per
annum, the railroad to be constructed by the Michigan Company,
with all its equipments, shall become the property of the New
Salem Company, and the mortgage or pledge of the contract
shall cease.
In the argument if'was contended by the complainants, that
under no act or acts of the Indiana legislature have the New
Albany and Salem Company, a right to construct a railroad
further north than Crawfordsville. That certain words used in
the act of February 11th, 1848, giving the company power to
"extend their road to any other point or points than those indicated by the location heretof6re made by the authority df the
State," were necessarily limited to the points named in previous
acts, New Albany, Salem, and Crawfordsville. And that in
extending the road from Ciawfordsville north to Michigan City,
and thence west parallel with the complainants' road to the
western line of the State of Indiana, it was located without
any legal authority.
From the above it appears that the validity of the New
Albany and Salem charter is involved in this case, for between
two and three hundred miles, from Crawfordsville to Michigdn
City, and thence to the western line of the State of Indiana.
The, construction of that road has been nearly if not entirely
completed, at an expenditure of between t-wo and three millions
of dollars. And in addition to this, it appears from the con21 *

SUPREMfE COURT.
Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

tract made betiveen this company and the Michigan company
that, as one of the conditions of the contract, the latter company subscribed in stock to the New Albany and Salem road,
half a million of dollars, a part of which. sum only has been
paid.
Now, if this court, in giving the relief piayed for by the complainants, should find it necessary to declare that the above
charter gave no authority to the New Albany Company to locate
and construct their road nqrth of Crawfordsville, it would be
rpinous to that company. And it is clear, that any decision
which shall declare the road from Michigan City to the western
line of the State of Indiana, without the protection of law;
must- equally apply to the road from Michigan City to Crawfordsville, as they were located and built under the same
authority. This question is, therefore, vitally interesting to the
New Albany Company; and by the bill we are called to decide
that question, although that company is not made a party to
the suit It is impossible to grant the relief prayed, without
deeply, affecting the New Albany Company. If their charter
should be held good, as claimed by that company, an injunetion
against the defendants would materially in-ure the New Albany
Company, as it would not only impair the contract made with
the defendants, in regard to the road from lichigan City west.
'ward to the Slate line, but it would, probably, release the
defendants from a subscription of half a million to the stock of
the Crawfordsville road, or at least from the payment of the
part of thai subscription which has not been paid.
The act of 1839 provides, that "where, in afily suit at law or in
equity commenced in any court of the United States, there
shall be several defendants, any one or more of whom shall not
be inhabitants of, or found within the distiet, jurisdiction may
be entertained, but the judgment or decree shall not cone., le
or preclude other parties. And the non-joinder of parties vho
are fiot inhabitants, or found within the district, shall constitute
no matter of abatement, or other objection to said suit."
The provision of this act is positive, and in ordinary cases
no difficulty could arise in giving effect to it; but in a case like
the present, where a court cannot but see that the interest of
the New Albany Company must be vitally affected, if the relief
prayed by the complainants be given, the court must refuse to
exercise jurisdiction in the case, or become the instrument of
injustice.' In such an alternative we are bound to say, that this
case is not within the statute. On both the grounds above
stated we think that the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction.
The judgment of that court, in dismissing the bill, is therefore
affirmed.

DECQEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Mlichigan Central Railroad Co.

1'Jr. Justice CATRON and Mir. Justice CAMPBELL delivered separate opinions. Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
The Northern Indiana Railroad Company and the :RailroaI
Commissioners for the Western Division of the Buffalo and
Mississippi Railroad Company, filed their bill against the
Michigan Central Railroad Company, in the Circuit Court of
the United States in the District of Michigan, seeking an injunction against the defendant to prevent the Michigan company from laying down and using a railroad around the southern end of Lake Michigan, and within the State of Indiana;
which road crosses the road of the complainants, and runs
near to, and parallel with it, and, as the complainants allege,
will materially withdraw their profits. And the complainants
insist that they have a monopoly by their charter to construct
the only road near to and around the southern end of the lake,
and that the defendant has violated the charteted rights secured
to the eomplainants.
The bill was demurred to, and the demurrer was sustained
by the Circuit Court. The first cause of demurrer set forth
is, that the complainants have not, by their bill, made such case
as entitles them to any discovery or relief against the defendant as to the matters contained in the bill, or any of them;
and the judgment of th6 court is prayed whether the defendant
shall be compelled to make further answer; and, on this state
of pleadings, the question standing in advance of all others is,
whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to entertain the bill,
as between these parties, independent of the merits of the case
set forth. The bill alleges that the Northern Indiana Railroad
Company, and the Commissioners of the Buffalo companywere,
severally, corporations created by the State of Indiana, and were
doing business in said State according to their charters; "and
are, in meaning and contemplation of the Constitution and laws
of the United States, citizens of. the State of Indiana, and
entitled to be deemed and taken as such citizens for. all the
purposes of suing and being sued, and for the purposes of this
bill of complaint."
A corporation is composed of many ,individual members,
having a joint interest, and a joint right to sue in their corporate name; and the consideration here presented is, whether a
State law, creating the corporation, makes such corporation "a
citizen," according to the Constitution, regardless of the fact
where its members reside. If the corporation be such citizen,
then every member of the corporate body might reside in Michigan, and yet have the right to sue citizens of Michigan there in
the United States court.

248

SUPREME COURT.

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. michigan Central Railroad Co.

The Constitution gives jurisdiction to the courts of the
Union, "between citizens of different States." Now, if it be
true, that corporations -such
as for making roads, &c.- be
citizens in the established sense of'the Constitution, it must
have been thus settled in the case of the Louisville Railroad
Company v. Letson, 2 How. 497; as, previous to that decision,
(made in 1844,) this court did not suppose that a corporation
was a citizen. Nor was any such question presented in Letson's case; far from it.
Letson sued the railroad company in covenant, by their corporate name, distinctly averring that the members of the compdny were'citizens of South Carolina, and that the plaintiff was,
a citizen of New York.
The defendant pleaded in abatement, that Rutherford and
Baring, two of the stockholders, were citi2 ens of North Caro-.
lina; and that the State of South Carolina was also a stockholder. To this plea there was a demurrer, which was sustained
in the Circuit Court and in this court.
It was held, 1. That the State could not object, as she stood
on the foot of every other individual stockholder and need not
be sued; and,
2. That fugitive stockholders, who were changing every day,
and quite too numerous to be included in a suit, need.not be
made parties of record.
This,, from the report of the case, seems to have been the
unanimous. opinion of the members of this colirt, who were
present at the time; certainly it was my opinion.
The president and directors of the raihoad company were
alleged to be, and admitted to be by their plea, citizens of
South Carolina; they represented the stockholders, and were
their trustees, and whose acts were binding on the stockholders.
This state of parties conformed to the act of Congress of 1839,
and the spirit of the 47th, 48th, 49th, and 50th rules for the
government of chancery practice in the federal courts, adopted
in 1842.
It is now assumed, that Letson's case overruled the decision
in Strawbridge v. Curtis, 3 Cranch, 276. That -decision undoubtedly proceeded on the true rule.
There were various complainants to a bill in equity; and the
bill alleged that some of the complainants were citizens of
Massachusetts, where the suit wag brought; and that the defendants were also citizens of Massachusetts, except Curtis,
who Was stated to be of Vermont, and a subpcena was served
on him in that State. There, it was held, "that each distinct
interest should be represented by persons, all of whom are entitled to sue, or may be sued, in the federal courts." A bill thus
framed could not at this day be treated seriously.

DECE3MBER TERM, 1853.

249

Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Michigan Central Railroad Co.

The next case supposed to be in conffict with Letson's case
is that of the United States Bank v. Devereux, 5 Cranch, 61.
The old Bank of the United States sued Devereux and Robertson, in the Circuit Court of Georgia, alleging that it was a corporation established under an act of Congress of 1791; and
alleging, further, that the petitioners, the President, Directors,
and Company of the Bank of the United States, were citizens
of the State of Pennsylvania; and that Devereux and Robertson, the defendants, were citizens of Georgia; and this averment was held sufficient by the court.
That Letson's case overruled that of the R. R. Bank of Vicksburg v. Slocum and others, is true; and it was justly overruled,
as I think. Slocum, Richards, & Company sued the Bank, alleging that they were citizens of Louisiana, and that the President, Directors, and Company of the Bank were citizens of \Iississippi. The Bank pleaded in abatement, that Lambeth and
Thompson, two of the stockholders, were citizens of Louisiana.
And this court sustained that plea; whereas, according to Letson's case, it was quite immaterial where the stockholders resided, so that the president and directors were citizens of the
State where the suit was brought.
What a corporation is, was very fully discussed in Devereux's
case (5 Cranch) ; nor will I discuss it further here, as I do not
feel called on to prove, to the legal profession of this country,
that a corporation is not a citizen. And as no averment is
made in the bill before us, that the president and directors of
the corporations suing, are citizens of different States from the
president and directors of the corporation sued, I think the demuyrr ought to be sustained, and the court below instructed to
dismiss the bill.
I view this assumption of citizenship for a corporation as a
mere evasion of the limits prescribed to the United States
courts by the Constitution. The profitable corporations are
owned in a great degree in the cities; there the president and
directors often reside; whilst the charter was granted in another State, and there the owners, keep an agency, the business
being in fact conducted in the city.
Kow these owners and directors may sue their next neighbors of their own State and city, in the United States courts,
according to the rule that the corporation is a citizen of the
State where is was created, and that jurisdiction depends on
this sole fact.
Could I consent to pronounce from this bench an opinion
deemed by myself extrajudicial, and, therefore, without authority, I might attempt an argument to expose the irregularity
and impotence of an adjudication confined, by law; within

250

SUPREME

COURT.

Northern Indiana Rtilroad Co. v. Michigan Central lailroad Co.

prescribed geographical limits, with respect to subjects purely
local, whenever it should be attempted to extend the operation
of such adjudication beyond the locus to which the law has
allotted it. For of this character has been the action of the
Circuit Court upon the controversy of these two corporations
now before us. The Northern Indiana Rfdlroad Company, incorporated by the State of Indiana, have complained of an
invasion of their local rights, a tort to real property situated
within- the territory of Indiana, by a company incorporated by,
and situated within, the State of Michigan; and the Circuit
Court for the State of Michigan, limited in its cognizance of
local matters to the territory of that State, has undertaken to
adjudicate upon the merits of this complaint. But irregular
and futile as is the action of the Circuit Court of Michigan,
and as it is by all here admitted to have been, can it have been
nore irregular than is the undertaking, on the part of this tribunal, to pronounce authoritatively upon the character of the
acts, or the relative rights and powers of the parties, over which
the Circuit Court of Michigan has claimed cognizance? Is not
the warrant for cognizance by the Circuit Court and by this tribunal essentially, nay, precisely, the same'! Are they not both
to be found, if existing at all, in the Const.tution of the United
States? And is it not indispensable that such cognizace
should be regularly and certainly vested in the Circuit Court,
before this court can sanction its validity'? If it be asked, by
what provision of the Constitution the Circuit Court could
assume jurisdiction of the present contro7ersy, it must, of necessity, be referred to that (2d sec. 3d Art.) provision which
extends the judicial power to controversies between citizens of
different States. This, indeed, is admitted; and the admission
carries with it inevitably the implication that a corporation can
and must, for certain purposes, become a citizen, and must, ex
necessitate, possess the attributes of citizenship in order to obtain access to a court of the United States. Having, on a
former occasion, (vide the case of Rundla et al. v. The Delaware and Raritan Canal Company, 14 Howard, 95,) endeavored
to expose the incongruities involved in, and incident to, this
anomalous conception, I will not now attempt a further
enumeration of them beyond this obvious remark, - that
citizenship and corporate existence, created by State authority,
being decreed by this court to be, to some extent at least,
identical, as must be the case to authorize this court to call the
parties before them, it must follow that, to the same extent, a
corporation can be a citizen, and a eitizen can become a corporation. The process by which the latter transformation ma
be accomplished has not yet been pointel out. We are told,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

251

Northern Indiana Railroad Co.-". Michigan Central Railroad Co.

by the English jurists, and by the decisions of the English
courts, and so, too, in the case of the Bank of the United States
v. Devereux, it is laid down by Marshall, C. J., that a corporation
is an invisible, intangible, artificial creature. In one sense, at
least, the citizen may render himself invisible and intangible he may abscond. In what signification he must become artificial, amongst the infinite varieties which may be imagined, will
present a question more difficult-to be determined. But in the
possession of a portion even of his corporate attributes, the
citizen may be deemed a quasi corporation, when it shall be
thought convenient; and will, doubtless, in that chrysalis condition, furnish as. just a representation of the integral legal
entity, as the latter, in the shape of quasi citizen, can ever
supply of the real, material, and social being with whom it is
soughf to identify it.
Powerless and vain as probably ever will be the Fstill small
voice" of an humble individual, in opposition to the united
declaration of those justly considered the learned and the wise,
still, under the most solemn conviction of duty, the effort can
never be forborne to raise that humble voice in accents of alarm
at whatever is believed to threaten even the sacred bark in
which the safety both of the States and of the United States is
freighted. I hold that, beyond the Constitution of the United
States, there is no federal government, either in the mass or in
the detail. That beyond the pale and limits prescribed by that
instrument, to be interpreted, not by indirect or ingenious or
forced constructions, or by remote implications, but by theplain
and common-sense import of its language, a language familiar
to the common and general understanding, all is unwarranted
assumption and wrong- a termination of all legitimate federal
power. Whilst therefore I profess, as I really feel, my belief
in the wisdom and purity of those who think themselves justified in what I regard as an infringement upon the terms and
objects of our only charter, I am constrained to record my
solemn protest against their doctrine and their act.
On these grounds I dissent from the opinion just pronounced,
and think that this cause should have been remanded to the
Circuit Court, with directions to dismiss it, as one over which
the courts of the United States can have, no jurisdiction with
respect to the parties.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
I concur fully in the opinion of the court denying jurisdiction
to the Circuit Court to entertain this bill. The objection made
in the opinion to the exercise of jurisdiction, and which is fairly
presented by the record, is sufficient to dispose of the case. The

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et. al. v. Burden.

court has declined to determine any question upon the averments
of the bill, in regard to the citizenship of the parties. The question is left exactly where it was when this case was presented.
I state these facts, that no inference may be drawn to the cont#ary, and that the decision of the court maynot be misunderstood.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on tie transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Michigan, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction o! the case, and on that grpund the bill was
properly dismissed; there was, therefore, no error in the decree
of said court. Whereupon it is now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed, by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
costs.

ERASTUS CORNING AND JoHN F.
ERROR, V. PETER

WINSLOW, PLAINTIFFS IN

A. BURDEN.

In a suit brought for an infringement of a patent-right, the defendant ought to be
allowed to give in evidence the patent under which he claims, although junior to
the plaintiff's patent.
Burden's
patent for a new and usefdl machine for rollin puddler's halls and other
masses of iron, in the manufacture of iron," was a patent for a machine, and not a
process, although the lang~uage of the claim wns equivocal
The
difference
a process
and atomachine.
Court
exclude evidence offered to show
Hence,
it was explained
erroneous between
for the Circuit
that the practc~l manner of giving effect to the principle embodied in the machino
of the defendants was different from that of Burden, the plaintiff; that the machine
of. the defendants produced a different mechanical resnit from the other; and that
structure
and mechanical
actionupon
of thethe
two
machines were
the mechanical
patent,
construction
of thedifferent.
offered as
to the opinion
of the witness
Evidence

whether it was for a process or a machine, was properl, rejected.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Cir-

cuit Court of the Uied States for the Northern District of New
York.
Peter A. Burden, as assignee of Henr Burden, brought his
action against Coring and Winslow, for a violation of a patent
granted to Henry, as the original and first inventor and discoverer of a new and useful machine for rolling puddle balls or
other masses of iron, in the manufacthre of iron.
u the opinion of the
in
ohat took place at the trial is se fo roh
court. Under the nstructions of the Cicuit Court, the jury

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

253

Corning et al. v. Burden.

found a verdict for the plaintiffs, with one hundred dollars
damages; upon which the defendants brought the case up to
this court by a writ of error.
It was argued by Mr. Seymour and Mifr. Keller, for the plain.
tiffs in error, and by'lft. Fitzgerald and ir. Stevens, for the
defendants in error.
Each one of the four counsel filed a separate brief. The
points presented on the part of the plaintiffs in error are taken
from the brief of Mr. Seymour, and those on the part of the defendant in error from the brief of Mr. Stevens.
Points and Authorities submitted an the part of the Plaintiffs in
Error.
First exception to the charge.- The court erred in charging
the jury that "the letters-patent which have been given in evidence by the plaintiff are for a new process, mode, or method
of converting puddlers' balls into blooms by continuous pressure
and rotation of the balls between converging surfaces, thereby
dispensing with the hammer, alligator jaws, and rollers, accompanied by manual labor, previously in use to accomplish the
same purpose; and the said letters-patent secure to the patentee
the exclusive right to construct, use, and vend any machine
adapted to accomplish the objects of his invention, as above
specified, by the process, mode, or method above-mentioned."
L The court erred in charging the jury that Burden's patent
was for a new process, mode, or method.
A process or mode may be patented. Curtis, p. 65, 66, 67,
68, 69, 70, 71, 73, and cases there cited, from ยง 77 to ยง 83.
1. Burden did not patent a process, but a machine.
What he designed to. cover by his patent is to be gathered
from the patent itself, the specification, and its summing up.
Webster on Subject-Matter, p. 18, and note Z; Davoll v. Brown,
1 Woodbury & Minot, 59; Russell v. Crowley et al. 1 Cromp.
Meeson & Roscoe, 864; Moody v. Fiske, 2 Mason, 112; "Rex
v. Cutler, 1 Starkie's Rep. 283; Leroy v. Tatham, 14 H6ward,
156, 171; Wyeth v. Stone, 1 Story's Rep. 285; Gray v. James,
Peters's C. C. R. 394,400; Mr. Justice Nelson's Opinion, in Appendix A, annexed.
2. Burden's patent claims that he has invented a new and
useful machine, &c., not a process.
3. The specification, which purports to be a part of the letterspatent., states the invention to consist in a "machine," not in a
process.
VOL. XV.

22

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

4. The summing up of the specification, or the claim, is substantially for a "machine."
And he specifies three modes of applying the principle of his
invention; thus complying with the requisition of the sixth sec.
tion of the act of 1836, in reference to all patents for machines,
and for machines only.
The preparing of puddlers' balls is not claimed as an invention, nor could it be, for it is as old as the art of making iron by
the process of puddling. See Encyclopaedia Americana, Vol.
7,'Art. Iron, p. 72. The preparing puddlers' balls by pressure is
for that, too, is old. .b. But the claim is for the
n9
I-claimed,
invention of the new mechanism for preparing puddlers' balls.
I. An invention, such as Burden's is described to be in the
patent and specification, is, upon the authority of elementary
works, and the decisions of our courts, a machine, and not a
process.
The distinction between a patent for a machine and a patent
for a process is well known.
1. A patent for a machine is defined by Curtis, ยง 93, as follows: "If the subject of the invention or discovery is not a
mere function, but -. function embodied in some particular mechanism, whose m,'de of operation and general structure are
pointed out, and which is designed to accomplish a particular
purpose, function, or effect, it will be a machine in the sense of
the patent law."
If the speeification describes "not a mere function, but a machine of. a particular structure, whose modes of operation are
pointed out to accomplish a particular purpose or end, the patent is for a machine, and not for a principle or function detached
from machinery." Blanehard v. Sprague, 3 Sumner, 640.
A method or process may be the subject of a patent. See
Phillips, pp. 93, 94; Curtis, "ยง80, 81.
Among the cases cited (see Curtis, ยง 79) of patents for a method, or, as the writer expresses it, "I.forthe practical application
of a known thing to produce a particular effect," are
Hartley's invention-to protect buildings from fire by the application of plates of metal. See also Webster's Patent Cases,
pp. 54, 55, 56; and note, pp. 55 and 56.
Forsyth's patent for the application of detonating powder,
which he did not invent, to the discharge of artillery, mines, &c.
In this case the patentee succeeded in an action against the
party using a lock of diffeient construction from any shown in
the drawing annexed to his specification, and, as Curtis says,
"thus established his right to the exclusive use and application
,of detonating powder aspriming, whatever -the construction of
the lock by which it was discharged." Webster's Patent Cases.
pp. 95, 97, note.

DECEMLBER TERM, 1858.

255

Corning et al. v. Burden.

Hall's patent for the application of the flame of gas to singe
off the superfluous fibres of lace, and other goods, is another of
this class. Web. Pat. Cases, p. 99.
The plaintiff had a verdict founded on his sole right to use
gas-flame foi the clearing of fibres from lace. Curtis, p. 67, n.1;
Web. Pat. Cases, pp. 100, 103; Neilson v. Harford, Web. Pat.
Cases, 191, &c.; Neilson v. Thompson, Web. Pat. Cases, 275;
The Husehill Co. v. Neilson, Web. Pat. Cases, 673; Boulton
tv.
Bull, 2 H. Blackstone, 492; Clegg's Patent, Web. Pat. Cases,
103; Morse's Patents; McClurg v. Kingsland, 1 Howard, 202;
Russell v. Cowley, Web. Pat. Cases, 459.
.
2. The preparing a puddler's ball is reducing and compacting
it by pressure into the form of a bloom. See EncyclopEedia
Americana, vol. 7, article Iron, p. 72; Nicholson's Op. Mechanic,
pp. 334-5; Ure's Dic. of Arts and Manufactures, p. 703.
If Burden's claim, then, is for the reducing and compacting
the ball by pressure into the form of a bloom, it is a claim for
a process long before known in the manufacture of iron, and
would therefore be void for want of novelty.
To avoid this difficulty, the statement of the claim goes on
to say that he claims the preparing these balls by causing them
to pass between curved or plane surfaces, in the manner described in his drawings and in the specification of the several
parts of the machine.
If the words "the particular method of the application" were
correctly held in Wyeth v. Stone, before cited, to mean the particular apparatus and machinery described in the specification;
is not the claim for preparing puddlers' balls, by causing them
to pass through a certain machine, as clearly a claim for the invention of the machine?
Wyeth claimed not only the art or principle of cutting ice of
a uniform size, but "the particular method of the application of

the principle;"1 and this last part of the claim was held to be
the only valid part of it, and to be a claim of the particular apparatus and machinery, described in the specification to, effect
the purpose of cutting ice.
So Burden's patent, if it be sustained at all, must be held to
be a patent for the particular apparatus and machinery, described in the specification to effect the "preparing the puddlers'
balls." See also the case of Blanchard v. Sprague, 3 Sumner, 535.
It was objected, on the trial in this last case, that the plain.
tiff's specification was defective; that he claimed the functions
of the machine, and not the machine itself."
Nr. Justice Story, at p. 540, says: "Looking at the present
specification, and constxuing all its terms together, I am clearly

256

SUPREME'COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

of opinion that it is not a patent claimed for a function, but it
is claimed for the machine specially descibed in the specification; that it is not for a mere function, but for a function as embodied in a particular machine, whose mode of operation and
general structure are pointed out."
If to claim a "method" or mode of operation in the abstract,
explained in the description of certain macainery, be a claim for
a machine, as was adjudged in Blanchard v. Sprague, is not the
claim of preparing puddlers' balls, by the operation of certain
machinery, much more a claim of a machine ? In other words,
is the claimn of a particular result before known, from the operation of a machine claimed to be new, any thing else than a claim
for the peculiar construction of the machine itself, by which that
result is effected?
3. Again, the result claimed by Burden is to produce a bloom
from a puddle ball by pressure, welding. together the particles
of iron, and expressing in part the impurities, and partly shaping the mass for the after operation of converting it into bars,
.also by pressure.
It cannot be pretended that Burden invented this, or any part
of it. This was all done before his invention, under the hammer and the alligator jaws. But it may be zSaid that he invented
an improvement in this process. This cannot be; for he only
compresses the mass to cement the particles, express the impurities; and give shape; all this was done before by the hammer and the jaws, and, in the opinion, of many, better done than
he does it.
4. Again, it may be said that he made an improvement in the
operation by making it continuous. This brings the matter to
a true test, and shows that it is the invention of a machine to
render the operation continuous which before had been intermittent.
5. It may be claimed that he has invented or introduced the
element of self-action. This establishes the defendant's proposition that Burden's patent is only for a m'achine. For the
meaning of this is, as the term self-action must be predicated
of material substances, that he has substituted an organization
of machinery to perform automatically what was before performed partly by hand and partly by machinery. Machines for
nail-cufting, making hook-head spikes, carding and spinning,
weaving, felting, are self-acting machines, which have been invented to carry on known processes; all have the element of
self-action, and yet all of them have been recognized as machines, and not processes.
IIl. The plaintiff in his declaration coumts upon his patent
as a patent for a machine only, and not for a process.

DECEMBER TER1, 1853.

257

Corning et al. v. Bnrden.

He ought to be permitted to recover only secundum allegata
et probata.
IV. But suppose the patent be for a process, and not for a
machine'; then we submit that the court erred in sustaining the
patent as a patent for a new process of preparing puddlers' balls,
by continuous pressure and rotation of the balls between converging surfaces.
1. For this process itself is a well known and common process in the arts, and therefore could not be patented at the time
of the alleged invention.
The operation to which the puddlers' ball is subjected, that
is, the process, produces common results necessarily arising from
pressure on all soft and porous substances, to wit: condensation, expression of matter, and change of form.
2. All the experts testify that Burden's invention consists in
carrying on the old process of reducing a puddler's ball to a
bloom, by pressure created and continued by his machinery.
That the machinery by which such pressure may be applied
is patentable, is obvious. But aside from the peculiar construction of Burden's machinery, there is pothing new in its application. It is merely the application of a known mode of operation in the arts, to produce a known result, that is, mechanical
pressure, to produce a bloom out of a puddler's ball. See Curtis, p. 78, sec. 88.
That this form of applying mechanical pressure is not new,
was proved by, &e. &c.
S. Notwithstanding the condition embodied in the second
proposition contained in the charge of the court, as follows:
"The machines for milling buttons, milling coin, and rolling.
shot, which have been given in evidence by the defendants, do
not show a want of novelty in the invention of the said patentee, as already described, if the processes used in them, the
purposes for -which they were used, and the objects accomplished by them, were substantially different from those of the said
letters-patent;" yet taken in connection with the construction
given by the court to the paten t, in the first proposition contained in the charge, the defendants were deprived of the defence to which they were entitled, to wit: That the reducing
puddlers' ball to blooms, by their rotation and pressure between
converging and continually approximaing surfaces, was but a
double use of a process or machine, long before used in milling
buttons, milling coins, and rolling shot.
For the court had decided, in the first proposition of the charge,
that Burden's patent was "for a new process of ionverting
puddlers' balls into blooms, by continuous pressure and rotation
of the ball between converging surfaces."
22 *

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

In other words, that the application by the plaintiff's machine
to the puddler's ball, of the old method of reducing and compacting metals by the continuous pressure of converging surfaces, constituted such a novel process in the manufacture of
iron, that (its utility not being questioned) the plaintiff's patent
was good, notwithstanding the previous use of the milling machine on copper, silver, and gold, and of the shot machine on
lead, in compacting and reducing those metals by the rotation
of the metals and the continuous pressure of converging surfaces.
4. Burden's patent is clearly a case of double use. See Curtis on Patents, sec. 85 to 89, and notes and cases therein cited;
Losh v. Hague, Webster's Patent Cases, :207; Howe v. Abbott, 2 Story, R. 190-193.
To this defence the defendants were clearly entitled. The
processes of milling thecoin, finishing the edges of the buttons,
making the shot or balls, and making the blooms, are strictly
identical.
V. The court erred in charging the jury as they did in the
latter clause of the first proposition contained in the charge, tq
wit: "And the said letters-patent secure to the patentee the
exclusive right to construct, use, and vend any machine adapted
to accomplish the objects of his invention as above specified,
by the process, mode, or method above mentioned."
Also in laying down the third proposition in his charge, to
wit: "That the machine used by the defendants is an infringement of the said letters-patent, if it converts puddlers' balls
into blooms by the continuous pressure -and rotation of the
balls betveen converging surfaces, although its mechanical construction and action may be different from that of the machines
described in the said letters-patent'
Also in excluding the testimony offered by the following
question, to wit: by changing the form of the rolling surfaces
in Mr. Winslow's machine, can it be made to roll a sphere ?
Also the testimony offered as follows: "1Thecounsel for the
defendants then off&ed to prove by this witness that the machine used by the defendants differed, in point of mechanical
construction and mechanical action, from the machines described
in Burden's specification."
All these propositions were thus erroneously adjudged against
the defendants, as a sequence or corollary following from the
first main proposition which the court had l.aid'down against
the defendants, to wit, that the plaintiff's patent was for a
process and not for a machine. The court :an substance held,
that although the mechanical construction and action of the
defendants' machine might be different from that of the plain-

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

259

Corning et al. v. Burden.

tiff's, it was still an infringement if it reduced the balls to
blooms by continuous pressure and rotation.
This was an erroneous position. For one thing was certain.
We had the right to reduce puddlers' balls to blooms by any
machine having a different action from that of the plaintiff.
Curtis, see. 96, n. 2; Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallison, 478491 ; Barrett v. H.U, 1 Mason, 470.
In the light of these authorities, proof of different mechanical
construction and different action was competent and highly
pertinent to establish "a peculiar structure," and the production
of a new effect.
VL The court erred in excluding the evidence offered to be
given by the witness, Hibbard, to wit: " That the practical
manner of giving effect to the principle embodied in the machine used by the defendants was entirely different from the
practical manner of giving effect to the principle embodied in
Ar. Burden's machine - that the principle of the two machines,
as well as the practical manner of carrying out those principles,
was diffeient; and that the machine used by the defendant
prodaced by its action on the iron a different mechanical resuit,
on a different mechanical principle, from that .produced in
Burden's machine."
The witness was an expert, and no objection was urged on
that score, or to the form of the question. Silsby v. Foote, 14

Howard, 218, 225.
This offer embraced legitimate proof tending to Pstablish a
general proposition material to the issue, to wit:
That the defendant's machine was constructed on a different
principle, or had a different mode of operation from the plain-

tiff's.
Proof that tne principle of one machine was different from
that of the other, was tantamount to proof that their mode of
operation was different; for two machines, different in principle,
cannot well have the same mode of operation, although they
may 'produce the same result.
But the defendant not only offered to prove that the machines
were different, but also that they produced on the iron a different mechanical result. See Curtis on Pat. p. 264, ยง 222: also
p. 285; also p. 286, ยง 241.
In conclusion, the court in this case should have held that
the plaintiff's patent was for a machine. And on the question
of novelty the c6urt should have left it to the jury as a question
of fact, to find upon the testimony whether the plaintiff's machine was the same in its principle or modus operandi as the
milling, button, or shot machines. And- on the question of infringement, the court should have left it to the jury, upon the

260

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

testimony, to find whether the defendants' machine was the
same in its distinctive character or principle as the plaintiff's.
Brief on the part of defendant in error.
First. The whole question in this cause depends upon the
correctness of the construction contended for by the counsel for
the defendant in error, and which the jud.ge gave to the patent
on the trial. If this construction be correct, the other two instructions given by the learned judge to the jury are also correct
and follow as necessary corollaries. Curtis on Patents, ยง 146 7-8.
Second. The construction of the patent given by the court
on the trial, by the first instruction to the jury, was correct.
I. The patent (that is the parchment ) made out at the
patent office, by the proper officer in that department, does not
in any case, according to the patent law of this country, describe
the thing patented. To ascertain the thing patented, the specification, which is filed before the patent is issued, is the test in
all cases, as to what the patent secures to the patentee; and to
ascertain that, the whole specification must be consulted; and
the modern decisions have declared, that a liberal construction
must be given to it in favor of the patentee. Patent Act of
1836, ยง 5; Curtis of Patents, ยง 122, 123, 126, 127; Ames v.
Howard, 1 Sumner, 482, 485; Hogg v. -Emerson, 6 Howard,
437,482; Davoll v. Brown, 1 Wood. & Min. 53, 57.
It is undoubtedly true, if the description or title of the invention, as stated in the patent, is irreconcilably repugnant to the
description of the invention contained in the specification, as if
the description in the patent be a machine :for making nails, and
the invention described in the specification is of a machine for
carding wool, the patent would be void, upon the ground that
the government had not given to the patentee a legal exclusive
title to his invention. But nothing can be deduced from this
principle of law to sust~in the position that the invention is
only what it is stated-to be in the title stated in the patent, but
on the contrary, the very reverse of that position is what renders
the patent void in such cases.
In this case there is no such repugnancy. True, the patent
states the invention to be of a new and useful machine for rolling puddle balls, &c., but this is not so repugnant to the description of the invention contained in the specification, as would
preclude the court from adjudging that the government intended
to and did grant the patent, for the in-ention described in the
specification, to wit, -for an improvement in 'the process, &c.
Unless the title of the invention described in the patent is
clearly repugnant to the description of the invention in the

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

261

Corning et al. v. Burden.

speciflcaior, the patent will be deemed to be a grant of the
exclusive right to the invention described in the specification,
but it cannot diminish the extent of the invention described, and
claimed in the specification.
In short, the description of the invention in the specification
is the act of the inventor, for which, if it be new and useful,.
the government is bound to grant him a patent. The granting
of the patent is the act of the government, and if the description in that grant be not clearly repugnant to that which the
inventor claimed and was entitled to, it will be deemed to be
a grant of the thing to which he was entitled.
IL By any just .or legal construction of the specification
forming a part of the patent in question, and giving the only
description of the invention for which the patent issued, said
patent is for a new process, mode, or method, of converting
puddlers' balls into blooms, by continuous pressure and rotation
of the ball between converging surfaces; thereby dispensing
with the hammer, alligator jaws, and rollers accompanied with
manual labor, previously in use to accomplish the same pur.
pose, and is not confined to the particular machines described
in the specifications and drawings.
The specification commences in these words: "To all whom
it may concern, be it known, that I, Henry Burden, of the city
of Troy, in the county of Rensselaer, and State of New York,
have invented an improvement in the process of manufacturing
iron" Now let us here pause, for an instant, to inquire if the
patentee really intended to represent his invention as one consisting in a new or improved machine, to be used in the manufacture of iron; why, with his thoughts upon the subject, did
he not say so, instead of calling it an "improvement in the
process of manufacturing iron? " I confess my utter inability
to divine any reasonable answer to this question. The improbability of such a wilful misnomer, is greatly enhanced by the
conceded and well-known fact, that a new or improved process
is patentable, no less than a new or improved machine: process
or method, which, in the patent law, are said to be synonymous,
are among the few words in familiar use, machine being another
of these words, expressive of the few pxopersubjects of a patent;
so that to hold this to be a patent for a machine, is to impute
to the patentee the absurdity not only of omitting to call his
invention by its proper name, but of substituting, at the outset,
another name of well-known signification in law, expressly appropriated to another and widely different subject of a patent.
But the specifications contain other expressions which are in
strict accordance with the language already quoted, and require
the same interpretation. After particularly and clearly describ-

262

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v Burden.

ing the process in question, and the means by which it is accomplished, the patentee proceeds as follows: "It will be readily
perceived also, by the skilful machinist, that the principle upon
which I proceed may be carried out under various modifications,
of which I have given two examples; and these might be easily
multiplied, but this is not necessary, as I believe that those which
have been given must suffice to show, in the clearest manner,
the nature of my invention, and point out fully what I desire to
have secured to me under letters-patent of the United States."
Does this look like only claiming to be the inventor of a specific
machine? On the contrary, the patentee lefers to the descriptions he has given of the mechanical contrivances by which his
process may be carried on, as illustrative only of the 11principle 11
on which he "proceeds ;" and, referring to the two machines
thus described, he adds, "and these might be easily multiplied."
Does this language import an intention to limit his claim to
them? But an equally decisive test of ihe patentee's claim
remains yet to be considered. His specification concludes with
a summary. "In order to ascertain the true construction of
the specification in this respect, we must'look to the summing
up of the invention, and the claim thereof asserted in the specification; for it is the duty of the patentee Io sum up his invention, in clear and determinate terms; and his summing up is
conclusive upon his right and title." Wyeth v. Stone, 1 Story's
R. 273, 285.
The patentee's summary is as follows: "Having thus fully
made known the nature of my said improvE ment, and explained
and exemplified the manner in which I construct the machinery
for carrying the same into operation, what 3.claim as constituting my invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is the
preparing of the puddlers' balls as they are delivered from the
puddling furnace, or of other similar masses of iron, by causing
ieln to pass between a revolving cylinder and a curved segmental trough adapted thereto, constructed and operating substantially in the manner of that herein'described and represented
in figures 2 and 3, of the accompanying drawings, or by causing the said balls to pass between vibratory or reciprocating
curved surfaces, operating upon the same piinciple, and producing a like result by analogous means."
Now by his "improvement," mentioned at the commencement
of this summary, it is indisputdble that the patentee means his
invention; and this he describes as being carried into operation
by means of machinery constructed for the purpose. With
what propriety, then, can it be said that the invention claimed
is of the machinery itself? "What I claim," he adds, as
"constituting my invention, is the preparing of the puddlers'

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

263

Corning et al. v. Burden.
balls," &c. Is the process of preparing puddler's balls a machine?
If not, is it not a flat contradiction of the language of the
patentee to say that he claims to be the invehtor of a machine
and not of a process? And what is there in the other parts of
the specification to neutralize this explicit'and unequivocal language? It is said that the patentee describes and has furnished
drawings representing two several machines used by him, the
one in his first essays and the other subsequently. This is true,
and it is also true, that the two are wholly different, not only in
form, but in mechanical construction, having, irl fact, nothing in
common except their mutual adaptation to a like process and
effect.
Besides, the court will please to observe that the specification
claims no particular form of apparatus for carrying his mode or
method of converting puddlers' balls into blooms, into effect.
The patent cannot, therefore, be construed as confining the invention to the two particular machines which he has described,
that would accomplish that mode, method, or process. Curtis
on Patents, ยง 80, 81; Minter v. Wells, Webs. Pat. Cases, 130.
The specification should be so construed as to make the claim
coextensive with the actual discovery, if the fair import of the
language used will admit of it. Curtis on Patents, ยง 132.
III. The patent is not for a principle merely, but for a mode,
method, or process, giving two practical means for accomplishing
it.
The patentee shows, by his specification, that he had succeeded
in embodying the principle by inventing some mode of carrying
it into effect, and thus converting it into a process. "You oannot," said Alderson, B., in Jupe v. Pratt, Webs; Pat. Cases, 146,
"you cannot take out a patent for a principle; yoq may take
out a patent for a principle coupled with a mode of carrying the
principle into effect. If you have done that, you are entitled to
protect yourself fiom all other modes of carrying the same
Principle into effect, that being treated by the jury as a piracy
of your original invention.'"
"A mere principle," says Mr. Curtis, "is an abstract discovery;
but a principle, so far embodied and connected with corporeal
substances as to be in a condition to act and produce effects in
any art, trade, mystery, or manual occupation, becomes the
practical manner of doing a practical thing. It is no longer a
principle, but a process." Curtis on Patents, ยง 72; see also ยง 77,
78, and notes, p. 59, 66.
With the requirements of the law in this respect, the patentee
has complied in a manner perfectly unexceptionable, and perfectly consistent with the construction of his patent, insisted on
by the plaintiff. There is not, in the specification, a single

264

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et al. v. Burden.

expression indicative of an intention to limit his claim as an
inventor to one or both of the machines described by him, while,
on the contrary, the language plainly infers a fixed purpose to
guard against such an interpretation. Curtis on Patents, ยง 148,
and note 1.
IV. If this construction of the patent is correct, it necessarily
follows, that the patent protects the patentee from all other
modes of carrying the same mode, process, or method into effect,
which'is in substance and effect the principle held by the judge
in the last clause of his first instruction to the jury. Jupe v.
Pratt, Webs. Pat. Cases, 146; Curtis or Patents, ยง 148, and
note 1.
Tkird. The rejection of the evidence offered on page 84 of
the record, constitutes no ground of error.
I. The decision, if wrong, was cured by the evidence of the
same facts afterwards elicited from the witnesses.
II. If the construction of the patent co:atended for by plaintiff below, and held by the court, is corect, the testimony was
properly excluded. Jupe v. Pratt, Webs. Fat. Cases, 146, supra;
Curtis on Patents, ยง 148, and note 1.
Fourth. The decision, excluding the evidence of Winslow's
patents, was clearly right.
If the machine used by defendant was an infringement of
plaintiff's patent, the fact that Winslow had obtained a patent
for it would be no defence, and if it was not an infringement
of*plaintiff's patent, it was not material in this suit whether it
had or had not been patented.
Fifth. Ip the argument in the court below, on the motion for
a new trial on this bill of exceptions, the counsel for the defendants objected that there was a variance between the declaration
and the patent given in. evidence, unless the court held the patent
was for a particular machine or machines. That objection was,
however, justly and legally disregarded by both members of the
court in their decisioi of the motion.
The objection is technical, and it is entirely settled by the
practice of the State of New York, that such objection cannot
avail the party unless taken when the evidence is offered.
No such objection was taken on the trial of this cause, nor
was there any decision of the court, or aay exception on any
such question raised on the trial. Watson's Executors v. McLarien, 19 Wend. Rep. 563.
MTany other authorities might be cited, but it is unnecessary.
The member of this court from the State .,f New York knows
this to be- the rule, and both the judges of the court below
disregarded the objection.
'esides, if the objection had been made at the trial, that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

patent given in evidence varied from that described in the
declaration, the court would have directed the declaration to be
amended by substituting the word process in the place of machine. The defendants could not have been misled or prejudiced by such inaccuracy of description. 2d Revised Statutes
of New York, 3d ed. p. 504, ยง 98, p. 520, ยง 7, subdivision 14,
and ยง 8; 2d Revised Statutes of New York, 4th ed. p. 510,
ยง 169, 170.
Six-th. No question as to the novelty of the invention for
which this patent was issued, is presented by the record in this
cause, except that contained in the 2d instruction of the judge
to the jury. That instruction was right in point of law, and
the jury found the fact with the plaintiff below, (defendant in
error.)
Air. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Peter A. Burden, who is assignee of a patent granted to Henry
Burden, brought this suit against the plaintiffs in error for infringement of his patent. The declaration avers that Henry
Burden was "the first inventor of a new and useful machine.for
rolling puddle balls," for which a patent was granted to him in
1840, and that the defendants, Corning and Winslow, "1made,
used, &c., this said new and us eful machine in violation and infringement of the exclusive right so secured to plaintiff."
The defendants below, under plea of the general issue, gave
notice that they would prove, on the trial, that Henry Burden
"was not the first and original inventor of the supposed new
and useful machine for rolling" puddle balls, &c.;" that the. machine of the plaintiff, and the principle of its operation was not
new, and that the common and well-known machines called
nobbling rolls, which were in use long before the application of
Burden for a patent, embraced the same invention and improve.
ments used for substantially the same purpose. And after setting forth many other matters to be given'in evidence, affecting
the novelty of plaintiff's machine, the notice denies that the ma.
chine used by the defendant was an infringement of that patented by plaintiff, and avers that the machine used by them was
described in a patent issued to the defendant, Winslow, in December, 1847, "for rolling and compressing puddlers' balls," differing in principle and mode of operation from that described in
the plaintiff's patent.
To support the issue, in his behalf, the plaintiff gave in evidence a patent to Henry Burden, dated 10th of December, 1840,
for "aanew and useful machine for rolling puddlers' balls and
other masses of iron in the manufacture of iron;" and followed
it by testimony tending to show the novelty and utility of his
VOL. XV.

23

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et al. v. Burden.

machine, and that the machine used by the defendants was
constructed on the same principles, and there rested his case.
The defendants then offered to read in evidence the patent of
Winslow for his "new and useful improvement in rolling and
compressing puddlers' balls." The plaintiff objected to this evidence as irrelevant, and the court sustained the objection and
overruled the evidence. This ruling of the court forms the subject of defendant's first bill of exceptions.
The defendants then proceeded to introduce testimony tending to show want of originality in the plaintiff's machine; and
also that the principle and mode of operation of the defendant's
machine was different from that described in the plaintiff's patent; and finally called a witness named Hibbard. This witness gave a history of the various processes and machines used
in the art of converting cast iron into blooms or malleable iron.
He spoke of the processes of puddling, shingling, and rolling,
and attempted to define the difference betvieen a process and a
machine. The introduction of this philological discussion seems
at once. to have changed the whole course of investigation, to
the entire neglect of the allegations of the declaration and of
the issues set forth in the pleadings, in support of which all the
previous testimony had been submitted to the jury. The defendant's counsel then proposed the following question to the
witness: "Do you consider the invention of Mr. Burden, as set
forth in his specification, to be for a process or a machine?"
This question was objected to, overruled by the court, and a bill
of exceptions sealed.
The counsel for the defendants then offered to prove, by this
witness, "that the practical manner of giving effect to the principle embodied in the machine used by the defendants, was entirely different from the practical manner of giving effect to the
principle embodied in Mr. Burden's machine; that the principles
of the two machines, as well as the practical manner of carrying
out those principles, vere different; and that the machine used by
the-defendants produced, by its action on the iron, a different
mechanical result on a different mechanical principle from that
produced in Mr. Burden's machine." To the introduction of
this testimony the plaintiff's counsel objected, and it was overruled by the court, and, at the defendant's instance, a bill of exceptions sealed.
The defendant's counsel then proposed to prove "that the machine used by the defendants differed in point of mechanical
structure and mechanical action from the machines described in
the plaintiffs specification." This testimony was also overruled
and exceptions taken.
After'some further examination of witnesses, the learned judge

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

267

Corming et al. v. Burden.

announced his intention of instructing the jury, in the three following propositions, upon which the defendant's counsel declhied
to give further testimony, and excepted to his instructions.
"1. The letters-patent to Henry Burden, which have been
given in evidence by the plaintiff, are for a new process, mode,
or method of converting puddler's balls into blooms, by continuous pressure and rotation of the ball between converging surfaces; thereby dispensing with the hainmer, alligator jaws, and
rollers accompanied with manual labor, previously in use to accomplish the same purpose. And the said letters patent-secure
to the patentee the exclusive right to construct, use, and vend
any machine adapted to accomplish the objects of his invention
as above specified, by the process, mode, or method above mentioned."
"92. The machines for milling buttons, milling coin, and rolling shot, which have been given in evidence by the defendants,
do not show a want of novelty in the invention of the said patentee, as already described, if the processes used in them, the
purposes for which they were used, and the objects accomplished
by them, were substantially different from those of the said letters-patent."1
"3. That the machine used by the defendants is an infringemene of the said letters-patent, if it converts puddlers' balls into
blooms by the continuous pressure. and rofation of the balls between converging surfaces, although its mechanical construction
and action may be different from those of the machines described in the said letters-patent."
As the first instruction of the court contains the most important point in the case, and a decision of it will dispose of most
of the others, we shall consider it first in order.
Is the plaintiff's patent for a process or a machine?
A process, eo nomine, is not made the subject of a patent in
our act of Congress. It is included under the general term
" useful art." An art may require one or more processes or machines in order to produce a certain result or manufacture. The
term machine includes every mechanical device or combination
of mechanical powers and devices to perform some function
and produce a certain effect or result. But where the result or
effect is produced by chemical action, by the operation or application of some element or power of nature, or of one substance
to another, such modes, methods, or operations, are called processes. A new process is usuagly the result of discovery; a
machine, of invention. The arts of tanning, dyeing, making
water-proof cloth, vulcanizing India rubber, smelting ores, and
numerous others, are usually carried on by processes, as distinguished from machines. One may discover a new and useful

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et el. v. Burden.

improvement in the process of tanning, dyeing, &c., irrespective
of any particular form of machinery or mechanical device.And another may. invent a labor-saving machine by which this
operation or process may be performed, and each may be entitled to his patent. As, for instance, A :aas discovered that by
exposing India rubber to a certain degree of heat, in mixture or
connection with certain metallic salts, he can produce a valuable
product, or manufacture; he is entitled to a patent for his discovery, as a process or improvement in the art, irrespective of
any machine or mechanical device. B, on the contrary, may
invent a new furnace or stove, or steam apparatus, by which
this process may be carried on with much saving of labor, and
expense of fuel; and he will be entitled to a patent for his machine, as an improvement in the art. Yet A could not have a
patent for a machine, or B for a process; but each would have a
patent for the means or method of producing a certain result, or
effect, and not for the result or effect prodt.ced. It is for the discovery or invention of some practicable method or means of
producing a beneficial result or effect, tha; a patent is granted,
and not for the result or effect itself. It is when the term process is used to represent the means or method of producing a
result that it is patentable, and it will include all methods or
means which are not effected by mechanism or mechanical cornnations.
But the term process is often used in a more vague sense, in
which it cannot be the subject of a paten:. Thus we say that
a board is undergoing the process of being planed, grain of
being ground, iron of being hammered, or rolled. Here the
term is used subjectively or passively as applied to the material
operated on, and not to the method or mode of producing that
operation, which is by mechanical means, or the use of a machine,
as distinguished from a process.
In this use of the term it represents the function of a machine,
or the effect produced by it on the "material subjected to the
action of the machine. But it is well seted that a man cannot
have a patent for the function or abstract effect of a machine,
but only for the machine which produces it.
It is by not distinguishing between the primary and secondary
sense of the term "process," that the learned judge below appears to have fallen into an error. It is clear that Burden does
not pretend to have -discovered any new process by which cast
iron is converted into malleable iron, but a new machine or
combination of mechanical devices bywhich the slag or impurities of the cast iron may be expelled o:r pressed out of the
metal, when reduced to the shape of puddlers' balls. The machines used before to effect this compression, were tilt hammers

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

and alligator's jaw , acting by percussion and pressure, and by
nobbling rolls -with eccentric grooves, which compressed the
metal by use of the inclined plane in the shape of a cyclovolute
or snail cam. In subjecting the metal to this operation, by the
action of these machines, more time and manual labor is
required than when the same function is performed by the machine of Burden. It saved labor, and thus produced the result
in a cheaper, if not a better manner, and was, therefore, the
proper subject of a patent.
In either case the iron may be said, in the secondary sense of
the term, to undergo a process in order to change its qualities
by pressing out its impurities, but the agent which effects the
pressure is a machine or combination of mechanical devices.
The patent of Burden alleges no discovery of a new process,
but only that he has invented a machine, and, therefore, correctly
states the nature of his invention.
The patent law requires that" every patent shall contain a short
description or title of the invention or discovery, indicating its
nature and design," &c. The patent in question recites that,
"Whereas Henry Burden, of Troy, New York, has alleged that
he has invented a new and useful machine for rolling puddle
balls, or other masses of iron, in the manufacture of iron, which
he states has not been known or used before his application;
has made oath that he is a citizen of the United States; that
he does verily believe that he is the original and first inventor or
discoverer of the said machine, &c."
The specification declares that his improvement consists in
"the employment of a new and useful machine for rolling of puddlers' balls;" again he calls it "my rolling machine," and
describes his "machine as consisting of a cast iron cylinder,"
&c. In fine, his specification sets forth the "particulars" of his
invention, in exact accordance with its title in the patent, and
in clear, distinct, unequivocal, and proper phraseology.
It is true that the patentee, after describing his machine, has
set forth his claim in rather ambiguous and equivocal terms,
which might be construed to mean either a process or machine.
n such case the construction should be that which is most
favorable to the patentee, "lt res magis valeat quam pereat."
His patent having a title which claims a machine, and his specification describing a machine, to construe his claim as for the
function, effect, or kesult of his machine, would certainly endanger, if not destroy, its validity. His claim cannot change
or nullify his previous specification with safety to his patent.
He cannot describe a machine which will perform a certain
function, and then claim the function itself, and all other machines that may be invented to perform the same function.
1

23 *

270

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. Burden.

We are of opinion, therefore, that the learned judge of the
court below erred in the construction of the patent, and in his
first proposition or instruction to the jury. And as the second
and third instructions are based on the first, they must fall with
it. Taking the bills of exception to rejection of evidence in
the inverse order, it is clear that the last -two rulings being
founded on the erroneous construction or the patent, are, of
course, erroneous. The testimony offered was directly relevant
to the issues trying, and should have been received.
The refusal of the court to hear the opinion of experts, as to
the construction of the patent, was proper. Experts may be
examined as to the meaning of terms of art on the principle of,
"cuique in sua arte credendum," but not as to the construction
of written instruments.
It remains only to notice the first bill of exceptions, which
was to the rejection of the defendant's patent.
This is a question on which there may Ie some difference of
opinion. In some circuits it has been the practice, when the
defendant has a patent for his invention, to read it to the jury
without objection; in others, it is not received, on the ground
that it is irrelevant to the issue, which is a contest between
the machine of the defendant and the patent of the plaintiff,
and that a posterior patent could not justify an infringement
of a prior one for the same invention.
By the patent act of 1793, any person desirous of obtaining
a patent for. an alleged invention, made application to the
Secretary of State, and received his patent on payment of the
fees, and on a certificate of the Attorney-General that his application "was conformable to the act." No examination was
made by persons qualified to judge whether the alleged invention was new or useful, or had been patented before. That
rested wholly on the oath of the applicant. The patent act of
1790 had made a patent primd facie eviden ce; but this act was
repealed by that of 1793, and this provision was not reenacted in
it. Hence a patent was not received in courts of justice as
even .primdffacie evidence that the invention patented was new
or useful, and the plaintiff was bound to -?rove these facts in
order to make out his case. But the act of 4th of July, 1836,
introduced a new system, and an entire change in the mode of
granting patents. It provided for a new officer, styled a commissioner of patents, to "1superintend, execute, and perform all
akts and things touching and respecting the granting and iss uing
of patents, &c." The commissioner -wasaathorized to appoint
a chief clerk, and three examining clerks, machinist, and other
officers.
On the filing of an application the commissioner is required

DECEMBER TERM, 18,3.

271

Corning et al. v. Burden.

to make, or cause to be made, an examination of the alleged
invention, ir% order to ascertain whether the same had been
invented or discovered by any other person in this country, p:ior
to the application; or whether it had been patented in this or
any foreign country, or had been on public use or sale, with the
applicant's consent, prior to his application; and if the connissioner shall find that the invention is new and useful, or
important, he is authorized to grant a patent for the same. In
case the decision of the commissioner and his examiner is
against the applicant, and he shall persist in his claim, he may
have an appeal to a board of examiners, to consist of three
persons, appointed for that purpose by the Secretary of State,
who, after a hearing, may reverse the decision of the commissioner in whole or in part. By the act of 1839, the Chief
Justice of the District of Columbia, -was substituted to the
board of examiners.
It is evident that a patent, thus issued after an inquisition
or examination, made by skilful and sworn public officers, appointed for the purpose of protecting the. public against false
claims or useless inventions, is entitled to much more respect,
as evidence of novelty and utility, than those formerly issued
without any such investigation. Consequently such a patent
may be, and generally is, received as privid facie evidence of
the truth of the facts asserted in it. And in cases where the
evidence is nicely balanced, it may have weight with a jury in
making up their decision as to the plaintiff's right; and if so,
it is not easy to perceive why the defendant who uses a patented
machine should not have the benefit of a like presumption in
his favor, arising from a like investigation of the originality of
his invention, and the judgment of the public officers, that his
machine is new, and not an infringement of the patent previously granted to the plaintiff. It shows, at least, that 4he
defendant has acted in good faith, and is not a wanton infringer
of the plaintiff's rights, and ought not, therefore, to be subjected to the same stringent and harsh rule of damages which
Might be justly inflicted on a mere pirate. It is true the mere
question of originality or infringement generally turns on the
testimony of the witnesses produced on the trial; but if the
plaintiff 's patent in a doubtful case may have some weight in
turning the scale in his favor, it is but just that the defendant
should have the same benefit from his; valeat quantum valeat.
The parties should contend on an equal field, and be allowed
to use the same weapons.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the court erred in refusing
to permit the defendants' patent to be read to the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, reversed, and
a venite de wovo awarded.

272

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et al. v. Burden.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, and wait argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here crdered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the maid Circuit Court, in
this cause, be, and the same is hereby, revarsed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venire facias de
1zOvo.

JOHN GARROiV, THOMrAS Y. How, JR., JAMES SEYMOUR, AND
GEORGE MILLER, APPELLANTS, V. Alios DAvIs, GEORGE X.
PICKERING, WILLIAM MCCRILLIS, AND EPHRAIM PAULK.
Black, as agent for the owners, contracted to sell a large quantity of land in aine,
which contract was assigned by the vendee, until it came, through mesne assignments, into the hands of Miller and others.
Payments were made from time to time on account; hut at length, in consequence of
a failure to make the payments stipulated in the coatract, and by virtue of a clause
contained in it, the contract became void.
In this state of things, Miller employed one Paulk to ascertain from Black the lowest
price that he would take for the land, and then to sl to others for the highest
price that he could get.
Paulk sold and assigned the contract to Davis for $1,050.
Upon the theory that Paulk and Davis entered into a f-audulent combination, still,
Miller and others are not entitled to demand that a court of equity should consider
Davis as a trustee of the lands for their use. They had no interest in them, legal
or equitable, nor any thing but a good will, which alone was the subject-matter of
the fraud, if there was any.
But the evidence rows that this good will did not exist; for Black was not willing
to sell to 'Miller and others for a less price than to any other person.
Although Paulk represented himself to be acting for Millr gnd others, when in reality he was representing Davis, yet he did not obtain Lho land at a reduced price
thereby; but, on the contrary, at its fair market value.
The charges of fraud in the bill are denied in the answers, and the evidence is not
sufficient to sustain the allegations.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Un.t'ed
States for the District of Maine, sitting as a court of equity.
The appellants were complainants below, whose bill was. digmissed under the circumstances stated in the opinion of the
court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Seward, for the appellants,
and by .Mr. S epley and M"fr. Rowe, for the appellees.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

278

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

Complainants' Points.
Point L The complainants, assignees of the contracts of
February 17, 1835, for 28,804 acres of pine lands, had an interest in those contracts and lands, which subsisted until they
were surrendered by Davis to Black, in November, 1844; and
this interest was, if not a legal chose in action, at least a chose
in equity of some, and even considerable value. These instruments were executory contracts for the purchase of land, of a
value, variously estimated at different, times, of from $86,000
to $172,000.
Point II. The complainants are proper parties, and are entitled to maintain their suit against the defendants.
Point III. The defendant Paulk, while acting as agent of the
complainants, in procuring possession of the ?ontracts and the
power to assign them, and in conducting the negotiations in
their behalf with ColoRel Black, on the one side, and with the
defendants and others, as purchasers, on the other side, conmiffed the frauds charged in the complainants' bill. The allegations of the bill on this important issue are sustained.
Point IV. The defendants, Davis, Pickering, and MeCrillis,
by means of frauds comnirtted by Paulk with their knowledge,
had, by colluding with him in the perpetration of these frauds
against the complainants, acquired from Colonel Black, at the
cost of the complainants, and under false representations to
him that they were the assignees of the complainants, and that
the complainants were the real beneficiaries, the contracts for
the 28,804 acres of pine land in Maine, which was of very
considerable value.
Point V. The defendants' excuses and attempts to explain
are unavailing.
Point VL The complainants are entitled to a decree, according to the prayer of their bill. The account to be decreed is an
account of future as well as past profits; and the defendants
ought to be decreed to assign the contract of Black to the complainants upon just terms, so as to secure the defendants their
advances, and to the complainants their profits.
Defendants' Points.
1. None of the parties plaintiff had any interest in or under
the Black contract at the time of the alleged fraud.
2. The claim, if any, is stale, and is lost by laches of the
plaintiffs.
They have never refunded to Davis the money he paid; nor
offered to do so.

274

SUPREME COURT.
Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

They never offered to repay the cash payment of $7,500; or
to take up, or to indemnify Davis and PE.ulk against the notes
given for the land; but mwaited till September, 1847, till the
result of the operations on the township showed the speculation
to be a good one; and then they filed their bill claiming the
benefit of it.
No court can allow one party to hold himself prepared to
take advantage of all favorable contingencies, without being
affected by those which are unfavorable. Marshall, C. J., in
Brashier v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 528; 13 Ves. 238; 4 Dall. 345; 14
Pet. 170; Benedict v. Lynch, 1 Johns. Ch. R. 370.
3. The plaintiffs had not the means nor the intention of purchasing the lands at such a price as they would fetch in the market. They were embarrassed in their finances, disgusted with
speculations in Eastern lands, and "in "gnorance, doubt, and
uncertainty, as to the real value of said lands, and the true quantity of pine timber thereon;" their only intention being to sell
the contracts. Paulk was directed to a ,certain the final and
lowest price that Black would take for the lands of the persons
holding the contracts, for -the purpose of aiding him in the sale
of the contracts, and not for the purpose of enabling his principals to decide whether they would or not become purchasers of
the lands.
Years after, when the price had been quite or nearly repaid,
by the proceeds of the timber, plaintiffs claim to be the equltable owners, without having advanced, or offered to advance, a
single dollar.
That of which the bill charges that the defendants defrauded
the plaintiffs -that is, the difference between the price at which
Black would sell the lands to the plaintiffs, and the price at which
he would sell to others; or, "so much as the said John Black,
by compromise, should agree to take less than the fair value of
the lands "- did not exist.
4. There was no fraud on the part of either of the defendants.
Each denies all combination, fraud, &,-., on his own part;
and knowledge, or belief, of any, on the part of his co-defendants, &c.
As each stands, in relation to this question of fraud, in a position different from the others, it will be necessary to consider
their position separately.
Paulk was the agent of Miller alone of plaintiffs, p. 43; and
of Norton. The case shows no precedent authority, or subsequent ratification, from the others.
By his answer. it appears that the only instructions he had
from Norton were to sell, for $1,000; and if he could not get

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

275

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

that, to take less, and "to close the matter in the shortest possible
time."

That Miller's instructions were, to endeavor to find some one
who would buy the-lands, and give the holders of the bonds
some portion of the lands, or of the profits (if any) of the speculation; and," if he could not make such an arrangement, to
sell the contracts for the most he could get, as the holders had
neither the intention nor the means of buying themselves."
He attempted to make such an arrangement with Pickering,
and failed. Any further attempt would have been useless, as
Black asked him more for the land than it would fetch in the
market.
He then sold.the contracts for the highest sum offered.
Upon these points, the answer is responsive and uncontradicted.
There is no evidence that he could have got any more for
the contracts; there is no evidence that they were worth any
more.

The answer denies that he was bound by his instructions to
ascertain Black's lowest price before selling; and is not contradicted.
He did, however, first ascertain all that was material on this
point, namely, that Black would make no reduction in favor of
his principals; nor sell the lands for less than the full market
value.

The answer denies all improper disclosures to the defendants.
The answer donies that any false statement was made to
Miller or Norton; and sets out the statements which were
made.
There is no evidence which contradicts it, in this respect, in
any material point.
The agreement, that he should continue the negotiation with
Black for Davis's benefit, was not a provision for his own private benefit, but a necessary consequence of the idea of reduction in price, which he held out as inducement to Davis.
The answer denies that he had any interest in the purchase
from Black, and that he received any money, property, or securities from any of the defendants, for any thing done before the
assignment to Davis.
The payment of $1,500 was for honest and proper services
rendered to Davis afterwards.
The answer on this point is responsive, and not contradicted,
-that he acted with fidelity to his principals, to the extent even
of wronging Davis, by suppressing facts which he should have
disclosed to him.

(Then followed an analysis of all the answers.)

276

SUPREME

COURT.

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

M~r. Justice CURFTIS delivered the opirion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the District of Maine, dismissing the complainants' bill. The substance of the bill is, that John Black,
as agent for the trustees under the will oF William Bingham,
on the 17th of February, 1835, contracted, in writing, with
Charles Ramsdale to sell to him a township and adjacent tracts
of land in that State, containing twenty thousand eight hundred
and four acres, for the price of three dollars per acre, payable
one fifth in sixty days, and the residue in four equal annual
payments-the contract of sale expressly providing that, in
case of failure to make either of these payments, the contract
was to be void. That, on the 1st day of April, 1835, Ramsdale
assigned these contracts to Nathaniel Norton and Jairus Keith,
in consideration of their agreement to pay to him the sum of
two dollars for each acre of the said lands; and that, at a still
further advance of one dollar on an acre, the contracts of Black
came to the complainants and one Herman Norton, by assign
ment, in November, 1835.
That Ramsdale made the first, and the complainants some
other payments, amounting in the whole to about forty thou.
sand dollars, but failed to pay the residue. That subsequent
to the year 1840, nothing was done by them concerning the
lands until after July, 1844, when one of the complainants
received from Black a letter stating that, though all their rights
were terminated many years since, he desired to know whether
they wished to do any thing respecting the payments for the
lands. That, thereupon, Miller, one of the complainants, emplbyed Ephraim Paulk, one of the defendants, to negotiate with
Black, and finally instructed him, to ascertain from Black the
lowest price at which he would let the complainants have the
land, and then to sell the complainants' rights and interests
under the contracts for the highest price he could obtain-the
supposition of the complainants being, that Black would sell
the lands to them for much less than he could obtain from
others, by reason of their having already paid a large sum
towards the purchase-money, under the contracts above mentioned. The bill further states, that Paulk sold and assigned
the contracts to Davis for the sum of $1,050; and it charges
that, before doing so, he entered into a fraudulent combination with Davis and the other defendants, to obtain from the
complainants an assignment of these contracts for a trifling
sum, and then to negotiate with Black as if for the complainants, and thus defraud the complainants of what Black should
be willing to discount from the fair value of the lands, on
account of their peculiar equities; that he, in combination

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

277

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

with the other defendants, actually executed this scheme,
and obtained the lands from Black for a much less price
than could have been got from others, by reason of Black's
belief that he was abating the price for the benefit of the complainants. And the bill prays that the defendants may be
treated as trustees of the complainants, in respect to these
lands, and for an account, and- for other relief.
So far as respects the title to these lands, or any claim of the
complainants to have them charged -with a trust in their favor,
we think the complainants, upon the statements in their bill,
and upon the proofs, have made no case. They had no legal
or equitable title under their contracts with Black. Being in
default for more than se-,en years, and about four years having
elapsed since any thing ยฑad been done by them under these' expired contracts, they were not in a condition to insist on any
rights or claims to the land; and, as will be presently more
fullr stated, Black did not treat with them or their agent upon
the basis of any legal or equitable right, nor is it alleged that
they had any intention or took any measures to acquire the
lanas. In consequence chiefly of Black's letter, of the 22d of
July, 1844, inquiring what they wished to do about the payments, they conceived that Black might be willing to sell the
lands to them for less than he would sell them to others, and
that, this good vll might be a valuable subject of sale. To dispose of it, they employed the defendant, Paulk. If they have
been defrauded, in its. sale, by the defendants, they are entitled
to relief; but in the lands themselyes they had no interest, and
did not intend by Paulk's agency, to acquire any; and if all
the fraud charged in the bill was perpetrated, it affected not
any tiile of theirs to the land, or any negotiation for its acquisi.
tion, but solely the compensation which they might otherwise
have obtained for Black's good will towards them, as the
holders of the expired contracts. This was the only subject.
matter upon which the alleged fraud could operate.
To this subject-matter our inquiries must be limited. To
entitle themselves to relief, the complainants must proire fraud
and damage; or, to state the principle less abstractly, they must
show that their agent disposed of what he was employed to sell,
for less than its value, and that he did thisfraudulently.
The value of the complainants' interest is alleged by the bill
to have consisted in the intention of Black to sell the lands to
the complainants for less than their fair value; and this intention is alleged to have been actually executed by Black, by a
sale to the defendants at a price far less than he could have
obtained from others, under the belief that this abatement of
price was for the benefit of the complainants. If this were so,
VOL. XV.

24

278

SUPREME COURT.
Garrow et a.

v. Davis et al.

it could not be doubted that the complainants' interest was a
valuable one, and that its value was capale of being precisely
ascertained; for it would then amount to -the sum which Black
thus abated from the market price of the lands.
But the proofs not only fail to show that Black intended to
abate any thing from the price, but they leave no doubt that he
actually sold the lands for their fair market -value, without any
abatement whatever. The complainants have taken his testimony, and he declares, that he did not ccnsider the complainants had any legal or equitable claims originating from the
contracts; that he never intended to make them any allowance
or consideration on the renewal of the bonds or contracts that
when he sold the lands, he did not consider that he had .a de
any deduction on account of any claims of the complainants;
that if any other person had offered him more for the lands than
Paulk did, he should have sold them to such other person; and
if Paulk had not taken the lands at $30,000, he should have
sold at that price to any one who offered it. So far, therefore,
as respects the motives of Black, and his own views of the
nature of the trarisaction, his testimony is in direct conflict with
the allegations in the bill. And so far as it tends to prove that
he did not sell the lands for less than he could have obtained
from others, but demanded and received -:he fair market price
for them, it is corroborated by every witness who has been examined concerning its value. Dwinal and George N. Black,
two of the complainants' witnesses, say $30,000 was a fair
price for the lands; and Addison Dodge, who is proved to be
a person of uncommon experience and judgment concerning the
timber lands of that country, and whose testimony was taken
by the defendants, explored these lands in 1843 for Black, and
reported to him that $30,000 was all theyWere worth; and he
testifies that this was his opinion, formed from a careful examination. Though Black does not so state, there can be no
doubt that he fixed this price in consequence of Dodge's report
to him;, for he employed Dodge to make the examination, and
he expresses, in his deposition, entire confidence in his skill and
integrity. It follows from this, as well as from what Black
directly testifies to, that the price at which the lands were
actually sold, was fixed as the fair market value of the lands,
for which Black, as an agent to sell, was willing to sell them to
any one, though he preferred to sell to the complainants, if no
one should offer more.
It is true Black at first demanded of Paulk $43,206 for these
lands. This was before the sale by Paulk to Davis, of the complainants' interests; and it has- been argued that as the lands
were actually obtained for $30,000, this proves that Davis was

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

279

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

benefited by the acquisition of the complainants' interest to the
extent of $13,000. If Davis, when he purchased the complainants' interests had been aware that Black asked $43,000 for the
lands, and had been willing to acquire the complainants' interest
to endeavor thereby to get them for a less sum, this would have
a tendency to prove that he was willing to give somewhere
about $43,000, and that any reduction, below that sum, might
be treated as the value of the complainants' interests. But it
is explicitly denied by the answers of Paulk and Davis, and
there is nothing in the case to control that denial, that Davis
knew when he negotiated with Paulk that Black asked $43,000
for the lands.
We think the fair result of the evidence is that Paulk concealed this fact from Davis, and that Davis believed he could
get the lands for one dollar per acre. So that he actually paid
the fair value and something more than he expected to pay.
Upon these facts we are unable to come to the conclusion
that.when the complainants parted with this expectancy of good
will from Black for $1,050, they received less than they could
have justly obtained; or that when Davis purchased, he got any
appreciable pecuniary advantage from representing the complainants.
Upon this ground, therefore, the case fails.
But inasmuch as there are charges of fraud contained in the
bill we think it proper briefly to examine them.
As respects the two defendants, McCrillis and Pickering, they
were not connected with the purchase from Paulk by Davis.
They came into the purchase subsequently, in the manner stated
in their answers, which it is unnecessary to detail, and there is
no evidence which tends to show that they were guilty of any
fraud.
In reference to Paulk and Davis, there are circumstances
-which, if unexplained, would certainly be fraught with much
suspicion, to say the least.
After the. sale by Paulk to Davis of the complainants' interests, Paulk continued to act in*the negotiation with Black,
and it is admitted that he received $1,500 from Davis. But
the explanation offered is that, from the necessity of the case,
Paulk'must continue to negotiate with Black as if for the complainants; that they understood he was t6 do so; that only in
this way could their expectancy of favor from Black be sold;
and that no contract was made or understanding had with
Davis by Paulk, save what appears on the face of the papers,
that Davis was to pay him for his services subsequent to the
assignment. That when Davis gave his notes to Black, the
latter required a surety, and the parties being at Ellsworth,

280

SUPREME COURT.
Garrow et al. v. Davis et aL

Davis for the first time requested Paulk to sign the notes.
That Paulk at first declined, saying he was insolvent, but at
last consented on being assured that Davis would pay him
what Pickering, a mutual friend, should say was proper, and
Pici- ring afterwards fixed the sum at $1,500 for all his services.
The answers of both Davis and Paulk, deny, with clearness and
precision, every charge of fraud, and especially negative the fact
that this payment of $1,500 had any connection with or influence upon the sale by Paulk to Davis of ihe complainants' interest. Their account of the matter may'be true. There is no
evidence to prove it is not so, and, grave a', the causes of suspicion may be, they are not sufficient to "overcome these precise
and clear statements in the answers.
The letters of Paulk to the complainant Miller and his failure
to give him notice of an inquiry by Black what -was the inost
they coiAd afford to pay, are relied on to show that Paulk kept
IMiller in ignorance of the material facts, and pressed him to a
sale in undue and unnecessary haste and -ith unfair intentions.
In his note of the 24th of October, 1844, Paulk tells Miller,
that "what is done with Col. Black must be done this w ek."
It does not appear affirmatively that Black had said so, and he.
does not remember saying so. But after the lapse of six years
he might have forgotten it, if hl did say so, and he testifies that
he does not recollect the particulars of the different conversalions with Paulk. But however this may be, the negotiations
actually went on until the 16th of November, before a sale was
made by Paulk, and upon learning from Miller that he thought
he could effect something by personally vis.ting Black, he wrote
to Miller informing him he had sold the bonds for $1,050, but
that he had obtained the consent of the purchasers to suspend
the transfer until the 25th of November; that they were not
willing to wait longer, Decause they desired to operate on the
lands the coming -winter, and in order to do so the matter
must be decided on"immediately; and he then strongly urges
Miller to come at once to Bangor, in season to avail himself of
the contract he had made, if he should find that to be most for
his infterest. This letter he sent to him by express to ensure its
reception in season.
This can hardly be reconciled with the charges in the bill, or
the deductions made by the complainants Aom some of the circumstances, that Paulk had unduly hastened the transfer, and
intended to keep Miller in the dark and to sell to Davis for less
than he might have obtained from another..
Upon consideration of the charges of fraud in the bill, and
the answers denying those charges, and the proofs ih the case,
we are of opinion that the complainants have failed to make

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

281

Mlagniac et al. v. Thomson.

out the fraudulent combination between Paulk and Davis which
they have alleged, and that upon this ground also the bill must
be dismissed.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maine, and was argued by counsel. On%
consideration whereof
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

HOLLINGSWORTH M AGNIAC, DANIEL SMIITH A'AGNrAC, AND WILLIAU JARtDINE, LATE TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF MAGNIAC &
COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN M. THoMsoN.
A plaintiff in a judgment having the defendant in execution under a ia. sa., entered
into an agreement with him that the plaintiff should, without prejudice to his rights
and remedies against the defendant, permit him to be forthwith discharged from
custody under the process, and that the defendant should go to the next session of.
the Circuit Court of the United States and on the law side of that court make up
an issue with the plaintiff, to try the question whether the defendant was possessed
of the means, in or out of a certain marriage settlement, of satisfying the judgment
against him.
The debtor was released; the issue made up; the cause tried in the Circuit Court;
brought to this court, and reported in 7 Peters, 348.
By ยงuing out the ca. sa., taking the defendant into custody, entering into the arrangement above mentioned, and discharging the defendant from custody, the plaintiff,
in all legal intendment, admitted satisfaetion of his demand, released the defendant
from all liability therefor, and destroyed every effect of his judgment as the foundation of legal right'.
In such a state of things a court of equity will not interfere at the instance of the
plaintiff.
The allegation of fraud in the marriage contract is not sustained by the evidence;
nor was the refusal of the defendant to apply the property which accrued to him
upon the death of his wife, to the discharge of the debt, a violation of the agreement under which he was released.
The averment in the bill that the rights of the plaintiff under the judgment, remained
unimpaired, is incompatible with a right to resort to a court of equity.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, sitting as a court
of equity.
Magniac & Company) being English subjects, had two judg-

ments against Thomson, one in the Circuit Court of the United
States for Pennsylvania, in 1827, and the other in the Circuit
Court for New Jersey, in 1829.
24*

282

SUPREME COURT.
Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

On the 1st April, 1829, the appellants sued out a writ of capias
ad satisfaciendum on the judgment in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to April
session, 1829, to which the marshal, on the 8th April, 1830, returned wn est ipventus, and on the same day an alias capiasad
satisfaciendum was sued out to April session, 1830, Number 9,
to which on the 12th April, 1830, the marshal made return of
"C. C. and enlarged by agreement of plaintiff's attorney."
The appellee was discharged out of custcdy by the consent of
the plaintiffs in the judgment, under the following agreement, viz.
.1agniac v. Thomson. Wo. 18, Circuit Court of the United States,
tennsylvania District, October, 1826.
Defendant having been taken by ca. sa. in this suit, at his
instance it is agreed that he be set at liberty on giving security
to abide the event of an issue to be formed for ascertaining, by
judicial decision, whether he has the means, by the property in
his marriage settlement or otherwise, of satisfying the judgment,
which issue is to be formed by plaintiff's affirmance and defendant's denial of such means; both parties hereby consenting to
t-v such issue Qgt the ensuing session of the Circuit Court, of the
United States for this district, on the merits, without regard to
form or to the time when the jury may be summoned; it being
expressly acknowlbdged by defendant thc.t this agreement is
made for his accommodation, without any prejudice whatever
to arise to the plaintiff's rights by the defendant's enlargement
on security as aforesaid or otherwise howsoever.
JON R. TaomsoN.
April 8th, 1830.
I hereby become answerable for the performance of the terms
R. F. STOCKTON.
above stated, which I guarantee.
Witness, J. P. Nofris, Jr.
On the part of the .plaintiffs in this case, I hereby consent to
the defendant's enlargement on the terms stated in his within
proposition and agreement of this date.

9th April, 1830.

C. J. INGERSOLL, Attorney.

In pursuance of this agreement, a new suit was entered by
agreement on the 3d June, 1830, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of :Pennsylvania, in the
third circuit, by these appellants against the appellee, to try the
issue to be formed under the above agreement of the 9th April,
3830.
The case was tried and is reported in Baldwin's Reports, 344.
It resulted in a verdict for the defendant. Being brought to
this court upon a bill of exceptions, the judgment of the Circuit
Court was affirmed, as reported in 7 Peters, 348.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

283

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

The death of ir. Thomson's wife being supposed to place at
his disposal certain property which might be properly applied to
the payment of the judgment, Magniac & Co. applied for a rule
to show cause why a scirefacias should not issue to revive the
judgment. Thomson set up his arrest and discharge under the
ca. sa. as a legal satisfaction of the judgment. Mlagniac & Co.
then withdrew the rule and filed the present bill.
The substance of the bill is very fully stated in the opinion
of the court, and need not be repeated. The bill was demurred
to, and, upon argument, the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill.
The complainants appealed to this court.
The cause was argued here by 11r. E. lng ersoll and Mr. C.
Lig ersoll, for the appellants, and by 1r. ohn II. Read and Hr.
Cadwallader,for the appellee.
Only such of the points will be mentioned as are involved in
the opinion of the court.
Appellants' Points.
Constrnction of the Agreement of 8th of April, 1830. If the
meaning of this paper were less than is insisted by the plaintiff,
its last sentence, beginning "it being expressly acknowledged,"
would have been omitted altogether. That sentence is not
merely without purpose or sense, but is directly in the teeth of
the meaning of the parties to the' contract, if not intended to
bind the defendant by a promise to stand by the judgment after
the discharge as much as before. The words "or otherwise
howsoever," which the defendant supposes we rely upon, may
be rejected without injury to the plaintiffs. Such general words,
in the case of extremely formal papers, in which the meaning
of the parties is expressed at great lengh, might perhaps have
little force, but in a brief stipulation, such as this, drawn up in
haste, probably, and in order to an immediate and pressing object, they ought to have their full force and popular construction. They should be interpreted to signify that if by the -words
which precede them the plaintiff's interests under the judgment
are not fully guarded, the defendant shall give them protection
"otherwise howsoever." They amount to a covenant for further assurance.
The agreement, interpreted in any other way, leads to this
absurd conclusion, namely, that the plaintiff perilled his whole
debt without a motive, while the defendant obtained his enlargement from custody, giving no equivalent therefor.
If the plaintiff had refused all arrangement, and simply per-

SUPREME

COURT.

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

mitted the defendant to remain. in custody he would have
fesorted to the insolvent law of Pennsylvaria, or of the United
States. In the former case he must have given fuller security
than he gave under the agreezhent of 8th of April; 1830, and
there would have been a trial of the question whether the defendant was possessed of property, more advantageous to the
plaintiff than the trial in the federal court. In the latter case,
of. an application by the defendant under the United States
insolvent law of 1800, the plaintiff, had he succeeded in breaking the trust, would have got the whole trust property, and,
whether he failed or succeeded, would have had security of the
most binding sort in the custody of the defendant's person.
The plaintiff therefore gined nothing by the agreement, for it
is not pretended, on the other side, that he got any thing by it
if he did not get security of a superior character for his debt,
or a better tral of the question upon which it tuned. He simply, as expressed by the agreement, set the defendant at liberty
at the defendant's instance. He did an act of lindness, upon
the defendant's agreement that it should be without prejudice.
The defendant, on the other hand, acquired, first, his immediate liberty, which he could get only by agreement, and,
second, a trial of the question of property in the federal court;
a better trial for him than one in the Common Pleas, and much
better than under the insolvent law of 1800, because that would
have detained him in custody during the time the cause was
pending, which was about three years.
It is submitted, that to give any other interpretation to the
agreement would be to stultify the plaintiff, who dealt with
the defendant liberally enough, but did not go the length of
giving away his debt.
The question whether, under this agreement, the plaintiff
was entitled to a second ca. sa., is one which is without difficulty, the fact once established that the defendant has evaded
by fraud, or violated the agreement; for Baker v. Ridgway, (2
Bing. 41,) and other cases, are precedents for a second ca. sa.,
when the plaintiff has been fraudulently induced to discharge
from the first.
In Baker v. Ridgway, a commission of bankruptcy having been
stied out against a defendant in custody, under a ca. sa., the
plaintiff, in order to prove his debt, dischqrged defendant from
the execution. The commission having afterwards been superseded, plaintiff took defendant in executioa again. Defendant
moved for his discharge, but the plaintiff alleging that the commission had been fraudulently procured to. induce him to dis.
charge the defendant from the original ca. sa., the court refused
the motion, refetring it to a jury to try the question of fraud)

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

285

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

holding that if there were fraud in defendant's procurement of
discharge from the first ca. sa., the second was well issued.
Best, .f. J., says: "If there has been no fraud in the transaction, I am of opinion the defendant is entitled to his discharge;
if there has been fraud, we are all of opinion he is not so entitled. I have looked through all the cases on execution against
the person, from the earliest period down to the present time,
and I am aware of the great jealousy of the law on the subject
of personal restraint. I am aware that where a party had been
discharged on account of privilege of parliament, it was doubted
whether he could be retaken after that pyivilege expired, and
the interference of the legislature became necessary to sanction
such a proceeding; so, when he died in confinement, it was
doubted whether the creditor, having resorted to the highest
remedy the law afforded, could have any further means for the
recovery of his debt, though the debtor left property behind him:
that doubt was also set at rt by the authority of the legislature. I am therefore clea7, that where a commission of bankrupt is sued out against a party in execution, he not being privy
thereto, if the plaintiff abandons his execution and proceeds
against the effects of, the party, by proving his debt under the
commission, he has taken his chance, and though there should
be no assets forthcoming, the defendant is secure in his discharge. (However, I consider myself no more bound by an
opinion delivered in the present summary mode of treating the
question than I should be by an opinion delivered at nisiprius;)
but if, the debtor, in concert with others, procures a commission
of bankrupt to be sued out against him, or it is procured with
his approbation and consent, in order to entrap the plaintiff to
come in and prove his debt, and is then superseded for some
latent defect unknown to the plaintiff, that does not entitle the
debtor to his discharge ;- and if we were to hold otherwise, we
should violate a principle of law which has never been broken
in upon, namely, that a party shall not be allowed to take advantage of his own wrong. I say this, because in Jacques v.
Withey, though Ashhurst, J., says, II know of only one case
where a debtor in execution, who obtains his liberty, may afterwards be taken again for the same debt, and that is when he
has escaped, and the reason of that is, because he was not
legally out of custody, yet Butler, J., did not assent to the generality of the proposition thuslaid down by Ashhurst,J., andwished
to introduce qualifications. Indeed, even according to the proposition laid down by Ashhurst J., if this discharge has been
obtained by a fraudulent commission, and the plaintiff has afterwards been cheated by a supersedeas out of the benefit sought
by the proof of his debt, the defendant may be taken again,

286

SUPREME COURT.
Alagniac et al. v. Thomson.

because the fraud has avoided the whole transaction, and the
defendant has never been legally out of custody."
That it may be seen that under the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania a second ca. sa. would have issued against the defendant had he been defeated in the Insolvent Court upon the
question of the validity of the marriage settlement, the following extract is given from Ingraham on Insolvency, pp. 28, 29.
"cWhere, from any cause, the petitioner s refused the benefit
of a discharge, he must surrender himself to prison."
"Where a party gives bond and fails to comply with the
condition, either by not attending, in consequence of which his
petition is dismissed, or by not surrendering himself if the
prayer of his petition be not granted, another execution may be
issued against him ; and if he neglect to file his petition within
the time prescribed by law, the creditor is not obliged to wait
for the day of hearing, but may issue another execution the
moment he can legally ascertain the fact. The surety in the
bond would be liable, in such a case, notwithstanding the second execution, which would be no discharge of his responsibility, being for his benefit."
Also, with the same object, is quoted part of the syllabus of
Palethorpe v. Lesher, 2 Rawle, 272:
"Where a defendant in custody gives bond with surety to
take the benefit of the insolvent laws and forfeits his bond, a
second execution may be issued against him."
Section 1 of the United States insolvnt law of the 6th
of January, 1800, (2 Stat. at Large, 4, 5, 6,) shows that the
debtor remains in custody until his right to discharge is finally
decreed; and therefore that, had the defendant applied for the
benefit of this act, he must have lain in prison pending the
question of the validity of the settlement.
Assuming, then, our construction of the agreement to be the
true one, the next question is,
Whether the case is one for relief, On taie part of the plaintiff, the defendant's reasoning is not appreciated, whereby he
denies the plaintiff's right to relief under the head of fraud and
mistake. It is submitted, however, that, whatever may be the
appropriate term for his title to relief, the "principles and cases
found under these two heads of equity are directly applicable
to the facts before the court. And, knowing no other names
under which to classify those facts, the question of relief will
be considered under the two titles of fraud and mistake.
Fraud. If it were a case of mere breach of contract, as alleged by defendant, it would not be cognizable in equity. Nor
would it be cognizable in equity if it were a case of fraudulent
breach of contract, and not more, for even fraud is cognizable

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

at law unless there -be iri the case something to oust the juris-

diction.
If A purchase commodities of B, and do not pay for them,
this is a breach of contract cognizable at law. If A purchase
commodities of B, with the preconceived design not to pay for
them, afterwards carried into effect, this is a fraud as well as a
breach of contract, but does not entitle the party to relief in
equity.
But here is a case where there can be no relief at law, because (we assume for the sake of argument) the courts of law
have declared that a judgment is paid when the defendant is
taken under a ca. sa., and that even the defendant's own agree.
ment to the contrary shall not change the rule. That a de-,
fendant's conduct, in entering into such an agreement and then
violating it, is "scandalous," as the courts have termed it, but
that there is no remedy at law.
The fraud is palpable. The defendant is in custody. He
says to the plaintiff, the rule of law is, that if you discharge me
the judgment is satisfied; but I pledge myself that; as between
you and me, there shall be no such rule, and that if you will let
me go your judgment shall stand exactly as it did before your
ca. sa. was issued. This solemn agreement the defendaiit, having had the benefit of it, utterly violates. He declares the juidgment to be good for nothing, and the agreement good for nothing, and when the plaintiff takes proceedings at law he sets
them at defiance. That is,
having trepanned the plaintiff into
the bargain by means of a promise that he will not exact the
penalty of the position, he turns round and insists upon it.
The plaintiff then 'comes into equity. This case is like that
of a man who, holding a note fize years and eleven months old,
is told by the drawer to wait six weeks longer before he sues,,
and that the note shall be as good at six years old as it was before, and then, being refused payment, and having gone into
court, the defendant pleads the statute of limitation against
him. The case is like that of a plaintiff, in a judgment, who
enters satisfaction in order that the defendant- may be able to
make title to a certain portion of the real estate bound by the
judgment, the defendant having agreed in writing that the
satisfaction should be cancelled, and the lien of the judgment
restored, as to the rest of his real estdte, immediately after his
sale k~as effected, and then is told by the defendant, your judgment is gone, and you will never get another. Like the case
of one who, ha--ing given his receipt irifull, but without value,
to a debtor, in order that he might settle with a third person, is
turned upon by the debtor, and told that his debt is paid, and
here is the receipt for it. Like the case of an obligee who,

SUPREME

COURT.

Alagniac et al. v. Thomson.

having released one of two co-obligors, for the mutual purposes
of obligee and obligors, and, with the agreement that the discharge should be without prejudice as to the remaining obligor,
is informed by him, after the object of the discharge has been
accomplished and the advantages from it attained, that he does
not mean to hold himself liable after the release of his coobligor.
These are cases not distinguishable from that before the
court, and they are obviously for relief in Equity. They are all
cases in which a party has gained a fraudulent advantage of
another, which, not being relievable at law, will be relieved in
equity, unless something can be shown to -:he contrary.
It is pretended by the defendant here, to the contrary, that to
relieve under this agreement of 8th April, 1830, would be to
run counter to that policy which, favoring liberty of the person,
has refused to permit a second ca. sa. for the same debt. To
this the answers are:
1. The whole question of the liberty of the person, so far as
ca. sas affect it, is now at rest, for they have been abolished by
statute, and, thougli not abolished when this agreement was
entered into, they . 3re when the violation of it took place, and
the present question arose.
2. There are two cases to the point, that this rule concerning
the liberty of the person yields before proof of the defendant's
fraud in procuring his discharge. Baker v. Ridgway. 2 Bing.
41; 9 Moore, 114; Holbrook v. Champlin, 1 Hoff. C. R. 148.
3. On principle it would be strange, indeed, if that policy of
law and equity, and of all society which sets its face against
fraud, should give way before the so-called policy here invoked,
which amounts to nothing at all since arrest for debt has been
abolished, and which never did amount to more than a train of
unfortunate decisions, vhich, if they could be recalled, would
never be made again.
It is also pretended by the defendant, that to relieve the plaintiff would be to favor a stale claim.
(The counsel then proceeded to examine this branch of the
subject.)
Points for Appellee.
On the principal question of laN- involved in the case, the
position of the pppellee is that, by his relkase from imprisonment, on the 8th of April, 1830, the execution and judgment
against hini were satisfied, and the original debt wholly extinguished.
This position is the necessary result of the fundamental principles of English law on the subject of executions, their various

DECEM2BER TERM,

1853.

Mbagniac et al. v. Thomson.

sorts and relative effects. The whole doctrine of the common
law, as understood both in England and America, and as applicable to the present case, may be stated thus: The creditor,
by issuing a capias ad satisfaciendum, chooses the body of the
debtor in preference to his lands or goods, as the source of his
satisfaction. By making an arrest, he secures to himself the
satisfaction he has chosen, and is thereby estopped from resorting to any other mode of execution. As long as he holds the
body in custody, he is in the possession and receipt of a continuing satisfaction; and when, with his consent the body is released, he confesses that his satisfaction is complete, and the
debt for which he demanded it thereby extinguished; and if
the release is accompanied by any agreement with the debtor,
or third parties acting for him, such agreement (whatever may
be its terms) is a new and original contract, which can in no
way affect the completeness of the satisfaction previously received.
From a series of decisions upon these points, covering fun.
four centuries, it is belie-.d that only a single case can be cited
in conflict with the rule thus stated. As Blumfield's case, 5
Rep. 87, is much relied upon, it is proper to examine it at some
length. The statement of facts by Lord Coke is simply this:
"Two men were bound jointly and severally in a bond - one
was sued, condemned, and taken in execution, and afterwards
the other was sued, condemned, and taken in execution, and
afterwards the first escaped and thereupon the other brought
audita querela," Judgment was given against the prayer, and
the decision is undoubtedly clear law, and is perfectly in harmony with the principles above laid down. Lord Coke, however, in his annotation, cites the case of Jones and Williams,
(elsewhere unreported,) "where two men were condemned in
debt, and one was taken and died in execution, yet the taking
of the other was lawful." This case may also be very good
law, but makes nothing against the present appellee. Lord
Coke proceeds, "and then" (in Jones v. Williams) " it was
resolved by the whole court, that, if the defendant in debt
dies in execution, the plaintiff may have a new execution by
eleg-it or ft. fa. for divers reasons," which he goes on to enumerate. It is for this passage that the case has been often heretofore and is now cited, the value of the' authority being merely
this: that Lord Coke, in reporting a principal case, which is en-'
tirely with us, refers to an unreported case, which is also with
us, but in which there is a dictumr against us of which he appears to approve. But, whatever may have been its original
authority, this dictum has been repeatedly declared not to be
law. Blumfield's ease was argued in 39 Eliz., and published
.5
VOL. Xv.

SUPREME

COURT.

Mlagniac ei al. v. Thomson.

in 3 James, and must consequently have been well known in 4
James, when the case of Williams v. Cutteris, also cited as Cutter v. Lamb, was decided. Croke Jac. 1313. Yet, in the lastmentioned case, the defendant having died in execution, the
court held, that the plaintiff had no further remedy. In Foster v. Jackson, (Hobart, 52, 57,) where the same point arose,
Hobart, C. J., makes the same decision, and, in the course of an
elaborate opinion, approves the cases of Blumfield, and Jones
v. Williams, but condemns the dictum whic1h accompanies them.
Since then, in Sir Edward Coke's case, and in Cave v. Fleetwood, it was pronounced "not to be law ;" and in Taylor v.
Waters, where a similar point arose, and counsel urged its authority, it was wholly disregarded by the court. Godbolt, 294;
Littleton, 325; 5 Maule & S. 103. From that tine up to the
present, though similar questions have freq:aently z~lcn, it is believed that this citation has never been olfred to th. consideration of an English tribunal.
Having disposed of this dictum, we will proceed tt. examine,
in the first place, those cases in which it has been held, that the
release of a debtor in execution, by the plaintiff's consent, is
a satisfaction of the judgment and execution, and also an extinguishment of the debt.
The counsel then cited and commented upon the following
cases: Cro. Car. 75; Styles, 117, 387; 2 Mod. 136; Barnes's
Notes, 205; 4 Burr. 2482 ; 1 T. R. 557; 1. Bos. & Pul. 242;
6 T. R. 525; 7 Id. 420; 2 East, 9A3; 1 Barn. & Ald. 303; 2
Moore, 235; 6 Man. & Gr. 755; 4 Jur. 600; 11 Id. 800; Law
Com. Rep. 48 ; 15 Law Magazine, 132 - 3.
In all the above cases, the discharge was by the plaintiff's
consent, and it is believed that they establish incontrovertibly
the .position assumed, that every such discharge operates to
satisfy the judgment, the execution, and the original debt. It
remains, in the second place, to examine iato the effect of an
arrest and imprisonment upon a ca. sa. generally; the position
of the defendant being, that such an arrest and imprisonment,
if. regular, constitute a perfect satisfaction, so long as the imprisonment continues, and that the nature of the satisfaction
can only be impaired by an interruption of the imprisonment
through the tortious act of the defendant himself, or the operation of the law ir. invitum, as against the plaintiff.
In Year Book, 33 Hen. VI., it is said by Davers, "Suppose
a man recover against me, and take my bcdy in execution, he
shall have neither eleg'' nor fi. fa., nor any other execution, because this amounts, in. law to satisfaction." Page 48, 1455.
So, in 13 Hen. VIL, it is said by Keble, "If, on a ca. sa., the
sheriff return cepi carpus, the plaintiff shall never have' another

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

291

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

ca. sa., for he learns, from the return of the sheriff, that he was
in execution, and then he had the object of his suit." Page 1.
But perhaps the most carefully considered case on this-whole
subject is that of Foster v. Jackson, where the defendant died
in execution, and the plaintiff brought scire facias against his
executors. After examining Blumfield's case, and reviewing
the whole.subject at length, C. J. Hobart says, "But now singly
out of the very point, I hold that a capias ad satisfaciendum is
against that party as not only an execution, but a full satisfaction by force and act and judgment of law, so as against him
he can have no other, nor against his heirs or executors, for
these make but one person at law." And, in concluding, he
lays down the broad principle on which many of the decisions
already referred to are based, especially those where an agreement to surrender has been held to bevoid, "that the body of a
freeman cannot be made subject to distress or imprisonment by
contract, but only by judgment." Hobart, 52.
The law, as laid down in Foster v. Jackson, governed all
subsequent cases of death in execution, until parliament interfered, and, by the statute of 21 Jac. 1, c. 24, gave the creditor a
further remedy against the estate of the deceased. 1 Strange,
653; 8 T. R. 123; Ambler, 79; 5 laule & S. 73; 13 Ves. 193;
3 Mer. 224, 233-4-5; 20 L. J. Ch. 174; 15 Jur. 49; 13 Beav.
229; 1 Eng. L. & E. R. 146; 8 Dow. & Ry. 42.
The above cases not only sustain the position to which they
are cited, but they also prove that it is not merely a sharp point
of law, adhered to out of respect for ancient authority, but that
it has been treated at all times, both by judges and chancellors,
as a well-founded principle, to which a controlling force should
be given, in every case where it is either directly or collaterally
involved. The original debt has uniformly, and for all purposes
for which it has ever been attempted to be used, whether as a
set-off, the foundation of an assumpsit, or of a claim in bankruptcy, been held to be satisfied, and the judgment to be valueless.
It only remains, in the third place, to examine some particular cases, which are considered by the plaintiffs as exceptions
to the general rule, but which in reality go far to illustrate and
strengthen it.
1. Cases of escape. 'By the oldest authorities an eteape was
considered as effectual a discharge of the debt as a release, and
Blumfield's case-is the first decision to the contrary. Y. B. 33
Hen. VI. p. 47. The opposite doctrine was finally established
in Whiteacres v. Hamkinson, and the reason of it was given
by Ashhurst, J., in Jacques v. Withey: "I know of only one
case where a debtor in execution, who obtains his liberty,

292

SUPREME COURT.
Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

may afterwards be taken again for the same debt, and that is
where he has escaped; and the reason cf that is, because he
was hot legally out of custody." Sup. p. 11, 12. The result
of these cases then is, that where the prisoner has escaped of
his own wrong, although the satisfaction which the plaintiff
was receiving is temporarily interrupted ia fact, yet, in .intendment of law, the defendant is still in custody, and may be
retaken.
2. Cases of rescue, which depend upon t;he same principle as
those of an escape. The defendant was never, in contemplation
of law, out of custody. Jacques v. Withey, vt sup.
3. Arrest of privileged defendants. Th- arrest of a member
of parliament has, from the earliest times, been held irregular;
and it was occasionally doubted whether such an arrest, followed, as it necessarily was, by a discharge, either upon writ of
privilege, or without it, did not operate, like a release by consent,
as a total discharge of the debt. 1 Hatsell, 48; May's Practice.
of Parliament, 107, 113, 114; 2 Man. & Gr. 437,471; 1 Cr.
AL & R. 525; 5 Tyrrwhitt, 147; 10 Ad. & Ellis, 225; t Ad.
& El. N. S. 525; 2 Gale & Day. 473; Goclbolt, 327.
4. Cases of discharge from imprisonment by the lord's act,
&6. The discharge in these cases has alwrays been held to be
the act of the law, and not to imply any consent on the part of
the plaintiff. In compliance, therefore, with the old maxim, the
courts have taken care that this act of law'shall in no way injuriously affect the plaintiff's rights. Thus, in Nadin v. Baffle
et al. 5 East, 147, where two were in prison, and one was
discharged because of the plaintiff' refusal to pay the prison
charges, Lord Ellenborough, on an applicaion to discharge the
other, decided that "the discharge cannot be said to have been
with the plaintiff's assent, because he did not choose to detain
the party in prison at his own expense. Nor can the law, which
,works detriment to no -man, in consequence of having directed
the discharge of one defendant, so far'implicate the plaintiff's
consent against the fact, as to operate a, a discharge of the
other."
The same, as will be seen hereafter, has been the ruling of
the American courts, and for the same reasons here assigned.
5. Cases of debts payable by instalments. Where the judgment is to be satisfied by instalments, arfd execution is to issue
upon non-payment of any of the instalmeats, it is held that a
release from imprisonment upon one instalment with the plaintiff's consent, will not affect the remedy, or bar the execution
upon a second instalment. Davis v. Gompertz, 2 Nev. &
Man. 607. This is expressly upon the g:.ound that the two
executions are not for the same debt. Such was the principle

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

293

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

that governed the case of Atkinson v. Bayntun, which has been
relied upon as an authority against the appellee. 1 Bing. N. C.
444.
6. It may be proper, in this connection, to notice the case of
Baker v. Ridgway, which has also been cited against the appellee. 3 Bing. 41; S. C. 9 Moore, 114.
There, the defendant w-as in custody under a ca. sa.; a commission of bankruptcy was issued against him; the plaintiffs
were compelled, by the statute 49 Geo. III., c. 121, to discharge
him out of custody, before they could be admitted to prove
their debt under the commission; the commission was afterwards superseded on the ground of irregularity; and the
defendant was again arrested. Affidavits were submitted by
the plaintiffs, and relied on by the court, tending to prove that
the irregularity, by which the commission had been avoided,
was the result of fraudulent collusion between the debtor and a
portion of his creditors. This was a motion to discharge the
defendant, and enter satisfaction upon the judgment. The rule
was discharged.
Such being the facts, it does not seem that the case differs
materially from that of an escape. It was, in reality, an escape
effected by an abuse of the forms of law, and the same may be
said'of it, as Ashhurst, J., sad of Jacques v. Withey, "The defendant was never legally out of custody." At any rate, he
was never discharged by the consent of the plaintiff. That
these were the grounds of the court's opinion, may be seen
from many of the remarks reported by Bingham. Thus Best,

C. J.: "1If this discharge has been obtained by a fraudlulent
commission, and the plaintiff has-afterwards been cheated by a
supersedeas out of the benefit sought by the proof of his debt,
the defendant may be taken again, because the fraud has
avoided the whole transaction, and the defendant has never
been legally out of custody."
From all the cases, then, we draw the conclusion that the
English law is, and has been for more than four centuries, that
the writ of ca. sa. is the highest sort of execution known; that
it is capable of affording the plaintiff complete and'absolute
satisfaction; and that its execution will satisfy the judgment
and extinguish the debt, unless this its regular legal effect be
avoided by some after contingency. The only after contingencies, whether existing at common law, or provided for by
statute, which are allowed to havp this effect are, an escape by
the defendant's own wrong, or effected by his actual fraud; a
rescue; an avoidance of the writ for irregularity; an enlargement of the prisoner by act of law; or (since the 21st Jac. 1) his
death in execution. Upon the happening of any of these con25 *

294

SUPREME COURT.
MIagniac et al. v. Thomson.

tingencies, the plaintiff having been deprived, without his own
default, of the complete satisfaction to which his writ entitled
him, the law -will supply him with other means of enforcing it.
If, however, after the execution of the writ, the plaintiff voluntarily consent to the discharge of the defendant from custody,
while by such execution and discharge the judgment is satisfied
and, the debt extinguished at law, so the plaintiff's consent
operates further as a confession of such satisfaction, and if
properly presented to the court, will be entered of record on the
roll. The poli'y of the law, moreover, prohibits the defendant
from entering into any agreement by which the judgment or
debt, upon which he is in custody, shall, for any purpose whatevery be made to survive his release, and prbnounces all such
agreements null and void. Nevertheless, the discharge of the
defendant shall be a good consideration for an originll and
independent contract, which, if afterwards violated, may be enforced by new proceedihgs. This last rule avoids the hardship
to which creditors might otherwise, even against their inclination, be compelled to subject their imprisoned debtors, who are
unable to liquidate. their debt by actual payment, but can give
satisfactory security in consideration of a d:.scharge. Archbold's
New Com. Law Pr. p. 257, Ed. 1853; Sewell on Sheriffs, 198.
We have next to ascertain whether the American courts have
adhered to the doctrines of the common .[aw as expounded in
England.
The precise question as to the effect of the voluntary discharge
of the debtor from custody, has, it is believed, never been decided by this court. But, in two cases, the nature of the writ of
ca. sa. has been incidentally discussed, so far as it bore collate.
rally upon points then before the court. It was only necessary,
therefore, tQ enter into the subject, and to press the conclusions far 'enough to meet the particular question presented.
Thus, in the United States v. Stansbury, 1 Peters, 573, the
question btfore-C. J. Marshall was,_Nvhethcr the rights of a par-.
ticular debtor were to be governed by the common law or by
an act of Congress. Having decided in favor of the latter position, he waives all argument upon the cormon law, and intro.
duces his opinion by stating it in a form that-was unquestioned
on either side. "It is not denied, that at common law, the release of a debtor whose person is in execution, is a release of
the judgment itself. Yet .thebody is not satisfaction in reality,
but is held as the .surest means of coercing satisfaction. The
law will not permit a man to proceed at the same time against
the person and estate of his debtor; and when the creditor has
elected to take the person, it presumes satisfaction, if the person
be voluntarily released. The release of the judgment is therefore

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

295

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

the legal consequence of the voluntary discharge of the person
by the creditor."
So, in the case of Snead v. M'Coull, 12 How. 407, the question was, whether a creditor's lien upon the lands of his debtor
could survive the execution of a ca. sa. upon his person. Judge
Daniel, delivering the opinion of the court, after showing that
no lien on lands carl be of superior binding force to that of an
elegit, the capacity to issue which never survives a fully executed ca. sa., incidentally alludes to the nature of this latter writ,
and the effect of a plaintiff's voluntary releasing a defendant
who is in custody under it. In so doing, he cites at length the
strong language of the Lord Chancellor in Ex parte Knowell,
sup. 23, and refers to the leading cases of Vigers v. Aldrich,
Tanner v. Hague, and Blackburn v. Stupart
But, in the United States v. Watkins, 4 Cranch. C. C. R. 271,
the whole subject was fairly brought before the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia, and C. J.
Cranch, in the course of a most learned opinion, in which almost every English authority is examined, fully sustains all the
positions taken by the appellee as to the English law, recognizes
them as forming part of the law of Maryland, and therefore
binding in the District of Columbia.
Since this decision, the case of Harden v. Campbell, 4 Gill,
29, has been adjudicated in Maryland, and C. J. Martin fully
sustains the conclusions arrived at by C. J. Cranch.
The counsel then commented upon the following American
cases: - 2 Leigh, 361 - 7; 5 Leigh, 186 ; 6 Mass. 58 ; 16 Mass.
63; 3 Cush. 463; 16 Law Reporter, 629; 1 Chipman, 151; 1
R. L Rep. 143; 5 Johns. 364; 1 Cowen, 56; 8 Cowen, 171;
9 Cowen 128; 2 South. 508, 799; 2 Green, 102; 10 Ohio, 362;
6 Blackf. 36; 3 MICord, 165; 4 Dallas, 214; 3 Serg. & R. 463.
In Pennsylvania the statute of 21 James 1, ch. 24, for the relief of creditors against such persons as die in executiofi, was
reported by the Judges to be in force, but not the statute of 1
James 1, ch. 13, relative to privilege of parliament, nor that of
8 & 9 William 3, ch. 27, s. 7, where in case a prisoner escapes,
it is provided he may be retaken on a new capias.
This law was altered by the 31st section of the act of 16th
June, 1836, which enacted that "a judgment shall not be deemed to be satisfied by the arrest or imprisohment of the defendant upon a capias ad satisfaciendum,if such'defendant die in
prison, or escape, or be discharged therefrom by reason of any
privilege, "or at his own request;" but the party entitled to the
benefit of the judgment may have such remedies at law for the
recovery thereof as he would have been entitled to if such capias
ad satisfaciendunt had not been issued: saving nevertheless all

SUPREME

COURT.

Maganac et al. v. Thomson.

rights and interests which may have accrued to any other person
between the execution of such writ and the death or escape of
such party."
This section was taken from the 32d section of the bill reported by the revisers of the civil code on the 4th of January,
1836, but the words in italics, "or at his own request," were
-inserted by the legislature.
The section as reported by the revisers, is stated by them to
be "derived from the statutes 1 Jac. 1, c. 13; 21 Jac. 1, c. 24;
and 8 & 9 William 3, c. 27, sect. 7."
The case of Jackson v. Knight, 4 Wattzs & S. 412, decided in
1842, occurred after the passage of the -act of Assembly, and
was governed by the 31st section of the act of 16th June, 1836.
The agreement to discharge the defendant from imprisonment
was dated 10th October, 1840, and on the argument the counsel
for the plaintiff in error cited the said 31st section.
Ar. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The appellants, by their bill in the Circuit Court, alleged that,
being creditors of the appellee in a very la:ge amount of money
previously lent and advanced to him, they, in the year 1828, instituted their action for its recovery on the law side of the court,
when it was agreed, by writing filed of record, that a judgment
should be entered against the appellee as of the 26th of November, 1827, in favor of the appellants, for the sum of $22,191.71.
That this judgment, with a large accumulation of interest, remained unappealed from and unsatisfied, either in whQle or in
part. That the appellants, after obtaining this judgment, beieking that the appellee was possessed of concealed means of
satisfying it, and especially that when in a state of insolvency,
and with a view of defeating his creditors, b- had settled upon
his -xife a large amount of property, -and,as afterwards appeared,
made transfers of property to her between the date of the judgment and of the execution thereon, they st.ed out upon the said
judgment a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, returnable to the
April term of the court, 1830, and in virtue of that process
caused to be taken into actual custody the body of the appellee.
That under the exigency of this process and arrest, the appellee
would have been compelled to continue in close confinement,
or could have obtained his release therefrom solely by the laws
of Pennsylvania passed for the relief of insolvent debtors, which
laws would have exacted of the appellee an assignment to his
creditors of all estate, property, or interests whatsoever, held by
himself or by others for him, or unlawfully settled upon his

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

297

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

wife; and would have conferred upon him only an immunity
against further bodily restraint by reason of the non-payment
of such debts as were due and owing from him at the date of
such proceedings in insolvency; but that the appellee, being at
the time of his arrest a citizen of the State of New Jersey, could
not have been admitted to the benefits of the insolvent laws of
Pennsylvania until after remaining three months in actual confinement under the writ of capias ad satisfaciend'm.
That on the 19th of November, 1825, a marriage contract
was executed between the appellee and Annis Stockton, his
intended wife, and Richard Stockton, ยฐthe father of said Annis,
by which agreement the said Richard Stockton was invested
with a large amount of real and personal property in trust for
the benefit of the appellee and his intended wife during their
joint lives, and if the said appellee should survive his intended
wife and have issue by her, in trust for his benefit and for the
maintenance and support of his family, and if there should be
no child or children of the said marriage, then after the- death
of the husband or wife, in trust to convey the property to the
survivor in fee-simple.
That the appellee being arrested and in actual custody undex
tile capias ad satisfacifrdur , sued out as aforesaid, it was then
and there agreed in writing between the appellants and the appellee, that the former should, without prejudice to their rights
and remedio against the latter, permit him to be fonthwith
discharged from custody under the said process, and that the
appellee should go to the next session of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of PennSylvania, and
on She law side of that court make up an issue with the appellants, to try the question whether the appellee was possessed of
the means, either in or out of the marriage settlement, of satisfying the judgment against him; the said issue to be tiied
without regard to form, or to the time when the jury for the
trial thereof should be summoned, the appellee also giving security to abide the result of the trial of said issue. That upon the
execution of this agreement, the appellee was released. from
custody, and the marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, to whom the writ of capiasad respondendun was directed,
made a return upon the -rit that he had taken the body of the
appellee into custody, and that he had been discharged by the
consent and'direction of the appellants. That the trial of the
issue, Which was provided for in the said agreement, actually took
place, and resulted in a verdict by which, so far as concerned
the purposes of the said trial, it was found that the appellee
had not the means, either in or out of the said marriage settlement, of satisfying the judgment of the- appellants.

298

SUPREME COURT.
Magniac et al. v. Thom.on.

The bill alleges that by the force and bTect of the agreement
in writing and of the proceedings in pursuance thereof, the appellee obtained no farther or other right or advantage, than a
present discharge from close custody, and the, judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction that he -was then possessed of
no means, whether in or out of the said. marriage settlement,
wherewith to satisfy the judgment of the appellants. It farther
states, that since the judgment upon the issue made up and
tried as aforesaid, the wife of the appellee had died without
issue, and in consequence of that fact, all estate and property
vested in the trustee by the marriage sett:ement, and found by
the issue tried as aforesaid to be then protected thereby from
the creditors of the appellee, had become the absolute property
and estate of the appellee, and had either by the original trustee
in the marriage settlement or by his successor, been conveyed
and delivered over to the appellee as hi, own estate and property, free and clear of any trust whatsoever.
That the trust created by the marriage settlement, and by
which the above property comprised therein was adjudged to be
protected against creditors, having expired by its own limitation,
that property had become liable to the creditors of the appellee,
who was bound to a full account of the value thereof and for
the satisfaction of the rights and demands of the appellants out
of the same. That the appellants had accordirigly applied to
the appellee for payment of their judgment, to be made out of
the property comprised in and protected by the marriage settlement or out of any other resources at his command, but had
been met by a refusal on the part of the appellee, founded not
upon his inability to satisfy the just claim of the appellants for
money actally loaned, but upon an alleged exemption from all
liability resulting from the facts of his having been once arrested
under a capias ad satisfaciendumn, and subsequently released
from custody by consent of the appellants. The bill alleges
this refusal, and the foundation on which it is placed, to be in
direct violation of the written agreement, which explicitly declared that it was made for the accommodation of the appellee,
and without any prejudice whatever to arise to the plaintiffs'
(the appellants') rights, by the defendant's (the appellee's) enlargement. It charges the refusal and objection now interposed
to be fraudulent, and made in bad faith, E.nd as such, though it
might avail at law to embarrass or prevent the enforcement of
the judgment of the appellants, yet that a court of equity should
prohibit a resort thereto on account of its unconscientious and
fraudulent character. The bill concludes with a prayer, that
the appellee may be enjoined from setting up, as a discharge
from the judgment against him, his releak.e from custody under

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

299

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.
the circumstances of the case set'forth; that an account may be
taken of the several subjects of property comprised in the mar.:
riage settlement, and of the rents, profits, interest, and dividends
accruing therefrom, since the death of thewife of the appellee;
that satisfaction out of those subjects, of the judgment and
claim of the appellants may be decreed: the bill seeks also for
general relief.
To this bill the appellee (the defendant in the Circuit Court)
demurred, assigning, for causes of demurrer, that if the taking
into custody of the body of the defendant under the capias ad
satisfacienduntwas a legal discharge of the alleged debt, the
complainants are not relievable in equity from the effect thereof
for or by reason of any act, matter, or thing in the bill alleged;
and if the taking into custody was not such a legal discharge,
then th complainants have full, adequate, and complete remedy
at law; and farther that the taking into custody under the said
writ was and is to be deemed to have been a discharge and extinction of the judgment of the plaintiffs at law, and a discharge
and extinction as well at law as in equity of the debt for which
the same was obtained; and the cause coming on to be heard
upon the demurrer, the court by its decree sustained the demurrer and dismissed the complainants' bill with costs.
The correctness, or incorrectness of the decree thus pronounced, are now the subjects of our consideratiom.
Extensive or varied as may be the range of inquiry presented
by the bill with respect to what is therein averred to appertain
to the merits of this controversy, or to the character of the acts
of the parties thereto, the view and the action of this court.in
relation to that cause must be narrowed necessarily to the questions of law arising upon the demurrer. In approaching these
questions there may be propounded as postulates or legal truisms,
admitting of no dispute, the following propositions:
1. That wher'ever the rights or the situation of parties are
clearly defined and established by law, equity has no power to
change or unsettle those rights or that situation, but in all such
instances the maxim eqzitas sequitur legem. is strictly applicable.
2. That wherever there exists at law a complete and adequate
power, either for the prosecution of a-rigit or the iedressing of a
wrong, courts of equity, with the exception of a few cases of
concurrent authority, have no jurisdiction or power to act.
To the test of these rules the case before us, in common with
every appeal to equity, khould be brought; and if thd effect of
such test should prove to be adverse, that effect should e "sought
in the character of the appeal itself, and not in objections to
maxims which judicial experience and wisdom have long established. Recurring now to the history of this cause, let us in-

300

SUPRE31E COURT.
Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

quire what was the precise situation of the parties, what their
legal rights and responsibilities at the date of the judgment and
arising therefrom, what have been their acts and proceedings
subsequently to that judgment, and the consequences flowing
from their acts to their previous relative position. Upon the
recovery of their judgments the appellants had their election of
any of the modes of final process known Io the courts of law, or
they might in equity have impeached the marriage settlement
for any vice inherent in its consideration, or for an attempt
fraudulently to interpose that settlement between the appellants'
judgment and its legal satisfaction. But in their election of
any of the forms of final process, the appellants must be held to
have known the nature of that process, and the consequences
incident to its choice and consummation. To permit an ignorance of these, or in other words an ignorance of the law, to. be
alleged as the foundation of rights, or in excuse for omissions
of duty, or for the privation of rights in others, would lead to
the most serious mischief, and would disturb the entire fabric
of social order. In choosing the writ of calias ad satisfaciendum,
theref6re, for the enforcement of their ju67gment, the appellants
can derive no benefit from a presumption of ignorance or misapprehension as to the effects of calling into activity this severest and sternest attribute of the law. Such a presumption is
wholly inadmissible. They must be affected with knowledge
of whatever has been settled as to the nature of this writ, and
of whatever regularly follows a resort to its use. They were
bound to know, 1st, that the service of a capias ad satisfaciendum, by taking into custody the body of the debtor, operates a
satisfaction of the debt; and for that reason deprives the creditor -of all recourse to the lands, or chattels, or property of any
description belonging to his debtor. For :a doctrine well settled
and familiar as is that, it may appear superfluous to cite authorities; but we may refer to some of these; commencing with the
early cases of Foster v. Jackson, Hob. 52; 'Williams and Criteris,
Cro,. Jac. 136, and Rolle's Abr. 903; and coming down through the
more modern authorities of Mr. Justice Blackstone's Commentaries, vol. 3, p. 415; 4 Burrow, 2482; 1 T. R. 557; 2 East,
43, and 13 Ves. 193. To these cases might be added many
* decisions in the courts both of England and in the different
States of this country; sad, as conclusive of the same doctrine, in
this court the case of Snead v. I'Coull, 12 Howard, 407. So unbending and stringent was the application of the doctrine maintained by the earlier cases, that prior to the statute of 21st Jac.
1, cap, 24, the death of a debtor whilst charged in execution, an
event which rendered the process absolutely unvailable to the
creditor, deprived the latter nevertheless of a right to a farther

DECEMtBER TERM, 1853.

301

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

execution; the jealouy of the common law denying to him any
power beyond that he had exerted in the privation of the personal liberty of the debtor. The statute of James authorized the
exception of the death of the debtor to this inhibition of the
common law, and to this exception has been added the instances
of escape or rescue, seemingly upon the ground that in these instances the debtor should not be regarded as legally 'out of custody. The taking of the body under a capiasad satisfaciendum
being thus held the complete and highest satisfaction of the
judgment, it would follow ex consequenti, that a discharge of the
debtor by the creditor would imply an acknowledgment of such
satisfaction, or at any rate would take from that judgment the
character of a warrant for resorting to this highest satisfaction in
repeated instances for the same demand. But the authorities
have not stopped short at a mere technical restraint upon the
creditor who may seek to repeat the arrest of the debtor whom
he once had in confinement; they have gone the length of declaring, that if a person taken on a capias ad respondendum was
discharged, the plaintiff had no farther remedy, because he had
determined the choice by this kind of execution, which, affecting
a man's liberty, is esteemed the highest and most rigid in the
law. See the cases from Hobart, Croke Jac. and Rolle's Abr. before cited. Again it has been ruled that if the plaintiff consent to
the defendant being discharged out of execution, though upon
an agreement,, he cannot afterwards retake him although the
security given by the defendant on his discharge should be set
aside. 4 Burr. 2482; 1 T. R. 557; 2 East, 243; and the Lord
Chancellor, in 13 Yes. 193, uses this explicit language, "It is
clear, that by taking the body in execution, the debt is satisfied
to all intents and purposes."
Many American cases may be avouched in support of the
same doctrine. In the case of the United States v. Stansbury,
1 Peters, 573, Chief Justice Marshall says, " It is not denied
that at common law the release of a debtor 'whose person is
in execution,' is a release of the judgment itself. The law will
not permit a man to proceed at the same time against the
person and estate of his debtor; and when the creditor has
elected to take the person, it presumes satisfaction if the person
be voluntarily released. The release of the judgment is, therefore, the legal consequence of the voluntary release of the
persoti by the creditor."
In the case of Wrendrum v. Parker, 2 Leigh, 361, it is said
by Carr, J., that the "levy of a ca. sa. and the release of the
debtor from execution by the plaintiff or his agent, is an extinguishment of the debt, I have considered as well settled as
any point can be by an unbroken series of decisions." And in
VOL. xv.

26

SUPREME

COURT.

Al'agniac et al. v. Thomson.

the case of Noyes v. Cooper, 5 Leigh, 186, Brockenbrough,
J., says, ,"It has been undoubtedly established by a series of
decisions, that where a defendant in execution has been discharged from imprisonment by direction or with the consent of
the plaintiff, no action will ever again lie on the judgment,
nor can any new execution issue on that jrudgment, even though
the defendant was discharged on an express understanding that
he should be liable again to be taken in execution on his failure
to bomply with the terms on which the discharge took place."
Upon a collation of the authorities applicable to the acts and
proceedings of the parties to this controversy at the time, and
subsequently to the judgment in favor of the appellants against
the appellee, we are led to the following conclusions, viz.: that
by suing out a capias ad satisfacienduni upon their judgment,
and by taking into actual custody the lZody of the appellee
under this process, the appellants had obtained that complete
and highest satisfaction of their demand, of which they could
be deprived only by the 'act of God, by operation of law, or by
their own voluntary acknowledgment, or by a release of their
debtor; that by entering into the arrangement stated in the bill,
and by discharging the appellee from custody, the appellants
have, in all legal intendment, admitted satisfaction of their
demand, released the appellee from all 1 ability therefor, and
destroyed every effect of their judgment as the foundation
of legal rights. Such being our conclusions upon this branch
of the case, and the same conclusions being implied in the
application of the appellants for equitable interposition, the
inquiry here presents itself, whether a coxrt of equity can be
called upon to abrogate or impair or in any manner or degree,
to interfere with clear, asoertained, and perfect legal rights ? The
simple statement of such an inquiry suggests this ready and
only correct reply:
Equity may be invoked to aid in the completion of a just
but imperfect legal title, or to prevent the successful assertion
of an unconscientious and incomplete legal advantage; but to
abrogate or to assail a perfect and independent legal right, it
can have no pretension. In all such instanzes, equity must follow, or in other words, be subordinate to the law. With the
view doubtless of giving color to their application, the appellants have intimated (for they can hardly be said to have
charged it positively and directly) that the marriage settlement
of the appellee was made in fraud of his creditors, and they
have directly averred that the refusal of the appellee after the
death of his wife to apply the property comprised in that settlement, in satisfaction of the judgment of the appellants, was at
once fraudulent, and in direct violation of the agreement in

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

303

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

pursuance of which the appellee was discharged from custody.
With respect to each of these allegations, however, the appellants are entirely deficient in their proofs, and in the latter, the
statement does not accord with the document, that is, the written agreement between the parties on which this averment is
founded. No evidence seems to have been adduced upon the
trial which took place in pursuance of the agreement, to impeach the fairness of the marriage contract; and the absence
of any attempt to establish its unfairness, together -with the
charge of the court to the jury, would seem to exclude the existence, or at that time the belief of the existence, of fraud in the
settlement. The agreement entered into at the time of the appellee's release from custody contains no stipulation that he
would hold himself liable to another execution dependent on
the event that the issue contemplated by that agreement, or that
he would consider the judgment as still in full force against
him. And if there had been a stipulation of the kind, we have
seen that it could not have averted the consequences flowing
from the discharge of the appellee from custody; but the only
conditions for which the appellee covenanted were that he would
make up and try the issue proposed and would abide the resut of
the trial; with both of which conditions the appellee has literally
complied. This charge of fraud then, even if it could in any
aspect of this question have been available, is entirely unsustained.
With regard to the question raised by the demurrer as to the
obligation of the appellants to pursue their remedy at law, under
the allegation in the bill, that such legal remedy had been
reserved to them by the terms of the agreement, there can be no
doubt, upon the supposition that this remedy remained unimpaired, that the appellants could not arbitrarily abandon' it, and
seek the interposition of equity in a matter purely legal. The
averment therefore by the appellants of the continuation of
their judgment, and of their right to enforce it by execution in
all their original force and integrity, is wholly irreconcilable
with any known head or principle of equity jurisdiction, and
their bill is essentially obnoxious to objection on that account.
We are of the opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court,
sustaining the demurrer to the bill of the appellants, (the complainants in the Circuit Court,) is correct, and ought to be, as it
is, hereby affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On

804

SUPREME COURT.
Curran v. State of Arkansas at al.

consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JAmES N. CURRAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF ARKANSAS, THE BANK OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS, JOHN A. Ross,
FINANCIAL RECEIVER, AND DAVID
NEY.

WV.

CARROL, BANK ATTOR-

In 1836, the Legislature of Arkansas incorporated a bank with the usual banking powers of discount, deposit, and circulation, the State being the sole stockholder.
The bank.went into operation, and issued bills in the usual form, but in November,
1839, suspended specie payments.
Afterwards, the legislature passed several acts of the following description:
1843, January, continuing the corporate existence of tie bank, and subjecting its
affairs -to the management of a financial receiver and an attorney, who were directed to cancel certain bonds of the State, held by the benk. for modney borrowed by
the State, and reduce the State's capital in. the bank by an equal amount.
1843, February, directing the officers to transfer to the Stare a certain amount of specie,
for the purpose of paving the members of the legislature.
1845, January, requiring the officers to receive the bonds of the State which had been
issued as part of the cap'tal of the bank in payment for debts due to the bank.
1845 January, another ac, taking away certain specie and par funds for the purpose
of paying members of: e legislature, and placing other funds to the credit of the
State, subject to be drawn out by appropriation.
1846, vesting in the State all titles to real estate or other property taken by the bank
in paypent for debts due to -it.
1849, requiring the officers to receive, in payment ofdebts due to the bank, not only
the bonds of the State, which had been issued to constitut tie capital of the bank,
but those also which had been issued to constitute the capital of other banking carporations which were then insolvent.
U n general principles of law a creditbr of an insolvent; corporation can pursue its
assets into the hands of all other persons except toad fide creditors or purchasers,
and-there is nothing in the character of the parties in the present eae or in the laws
transferring the property, to make it an exception to ths general rule. For the Supreme court of Arkansas has decided thqt the State car be sued in this case.
The bills of the bank being payable on demand, there was a contract with the holder
to pay them; and these laws, which withdrew the assets of the bank into a different
channel, impaired the obligation of this contract.
Nor does the repeal or modification of the charter of the bank by the legislature prevent this conclusion from being drawn. But in this czse the charter of ihe bank
has never been repealed..
Besides the contract between the bill-holder and the haul:, there was a contract between the bill-holder and the State, which had placed funds in the bank for the purpose of paving its debts, and which had no right to wihdraw those funds after the
right of a creditor to them had accrued.
The State had no right to pass these laws, under the circurastances, either as a creditor
of the bank or as a trustee taking possession of the real estate for the benefit of all
the creditors.
The several laws examined.
The Supreme Court of the State held these laws to be valid, and consequently the
jurisdiction of this court attaches under the 25th section of the judiciary act.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Arkansas, by a writ of error issued under tha 25th section of the
judiciary act

DECE MBER TERM, 1853.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

It was argued by llr.Lawrence and Mr. Pike, for the plaintiff
in error, and by .Mr. Sebastian, filing a brief prepared by Mr.
Hempstead, for the defendants in error.
The arguments of counsel upon both sides were in such an
unbroken train of reasoning, that the reporter cannot compress
them into a mere report; and as, together, they made upwards
of sixty pages of print, he cannot publish them entire. The
reader who desires to examine into the case thoroughly, can consult the opinion of the Supreme Court of Arkansas, delivered in
Nover-ber, 1851. In that opinion the court maintains its doctrines Nith great earnestness.
Mr. Justicn CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Arkansas.
The plaintiff in error filed his bill in equity in the Circuit
Court of that State for the county of Pulaski, against the State
of Arkansas, the State Bank of Arkansas, and the financial receiver and the attorney of the bank; and the defendants having
demurred thereto, the Circuit Court overruled the demurrers
and, as the defendants elected to rest thereon, the court made a
decree in favor of the complainant. The defendants appealed
to the Supreme Court, where the demurrers were sustained,
and the bill ordered to be dismissed. This decree the plaintiff
has brought here for reexamination, under the 25th section of
the judiciary act.
As the questions to be determined arise on a demurrer to the
bill, the substance of the case, therein made and confessed by
the demurrer, must be stated, to exhibit the grounds on which
our decision rests.
The bill shows that the Bank of the State of Arkansas was
incorporated by the legislature of that State in 1836, with the
usual banking powers of discount, deposit, and circulation, and
that the State in fact was, and was designed by the charter
to be, its sole stockholder. That the capital stock of the bank
consisted of $1,146,000, raised by the sale of bonds of the State,
together with certain other sums paid in by the State as part
of the capital stock, amounting in the aggregate to the sum of
$350,753, being in the whole $1,496,753; all which was in specie, or specie funds. That the bank was required by its charter'
to have on hand at all times sufficient specie to pay its bills on
demand. That the plaintiff, being the owner and bearer of bills
of this bank, amounting to upwards of $9,000, which the bank
had refused to pay, instituted suits and recovered judgments
thereon at law, upon which executions, running against the
goods, chattels, and lands of the bank, have been duly returned

806

SUPREME COURT.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

wholly unsatisfied. The general scope of the bill, therefore, i4
to obtain the aid of a court of equity to reach such assets of
the bank as ought to be appropriated to satisfy this judgment
debt. The parties in whose hands it is alleged these assets are,
are the State of Arkansas and two other defendants, who are
alleged to have charge of certain effects of the bank, in behalf,
and under the authority of the State.
To make a case against these parties, and show that they
hold property, which in equity belongs lo its creditors, and
ought to be appropriated to pay their debts, the bill states, that
the bank having gone into operation, and issued bills to a large
amount, which were then in circulation, gave public notice, on
the 7th day of November, 1839, that the payment of specie was
definitely and finally suspended; and thenceforward, with some
comparatively trifling exceptions, has refused to redeem any of
its bills.
That in January, 1843, the bank still continuing insolvent,
an act was passed by the legislature to licuidate and settle its
affairs. That the assets of the bank then amounted to $1,S:32,120,
of which the sum of $1,000,000, was good and collectible; and
that it had then on hand the sum of $90,301 in specie. This
act expressly continued the corporate existence of the bank; its
affairs were subjected to the management of a financial receiver
and an attorney, who were to apply the :moneys collected by
them to redeem the outstanding circulatior., of the bank; but, at
the same time, bonds of the State, held by the bank, for ioney
borrowed by the State, amounting to at least $200,000, -were
required by this act to be given up and cancelled, and their
amount to be credited to the bank against a part of the capital
stock put in by the State. The bill further shows, that by another act passed at the same February session, in 1843, the officers of the bank were required to transfer, -o the State the sum
of $15,000 in specie, which was appropriated by the act to ppay
the members of that legislature. That on [he 4th day of January, 1845, another act was passed, authorizing th6 officers of the
bank to compromis6 its debts receivable, ad take specific property in payment, and requiring those officers to receive in payment the bonds of the State, issued to raise capital stock for
the bank, notwithstanding the bills of the bank might not have
been taken up.
That on the 10th day of January, 1845, another act was passed,
depriving the bank of all its specie and par funds, and appropriating the specie, first, to pay the members of that legislature, and
declaring that certain funds which had, been placed in the bank,
and made by the charter to form a part of its capital stock,
should be deemed to be deposited there to the credit of the State,
subject to be drawn out-by appropriations.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

307

Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

That by another act, passed on the 23d day of December,
1846, the title to all real estate and property of every kind, purchased by said bank, or taken in payment of debts due to it,
vas declared to be vested in the State, and titles to property
received on account of debts due to the bank were required to
be thereafter taken in the name of the State; and the bill avers,
that many different parcels of land specifically mentioned and
described, have been conveyed to the State, under this law, by
debtors of the bank, in satisfaction of their indebtedness.
The bill further states, that, by another act, passed on the 9th
day of January, 1849, the officers of the bank were required to
receive in payment of its debts, bonds of the State, issued to
raise capital for the Real Estate Bank of Arkansas, and other
banking corporations theretofore chartered by the General Assembly, and then insolvent; which last-mentioned bonds amounted
to at least $2,000,000.
The bill prays, among other things, for satisfaction of the
plaintiff's judgment debt out of the assets of the bank thus
shown to have come into the custody, or to stand in the name,
or to have gone to the use of the State by force of the laws
hbove-mentioned; and the jurisdiction of this court, under this
writ of error, is invoked, upon the ground that these laws, or
some of them, impair the obligation of a contract, and that the
highest court of the State has held them valid, and by reason
of such decision, dismissed the complainant's bill.
It follows, that there are three questions for our consideration.
1. What would have been the rights of the complainant under the contracts shown by his bill, if uncontrolled by the particular laws of which he complains?
2. Do those laws, or either of them, impair the obligation of
any contract with the complainant?
3. Does it appear, by the record, that the Supreme Court of
Arkansas held these laws to be valid, and by reason thereof
made a final decree against the complainant.
The first of these questions may be answered "without much
difficulty. The plaintiff is a creditor of an insolvent banking
corporation. The assets of such a corporation are a fund for
the payment of its debts. If they are held by the corporation
itself, and so invested as to be subject to legal process, they may
be levied on by such process. If they have been distributed
among stockholders, or gone into the hands of others than bond
fide creditors or purchasers, leaving debts of the corporation
unpoid, such holders take the property charged with the trust
in lavor of creditors, which a court of equity will enforce, and
cormipel the application of the property to the satisfaction of
their debts.

SUPREME COURT.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

This has been often decided, and rests upon plain principles.
In 2 Story's Eq. Jur. ยง 1252, it is said," Perhaps, to this same
head of implied trusts upon presumed intention, (although it
might equally well be deemed to fall undex the head of implied
trusts by operation of law,) ;ve may refer that class of cases
where the stock and other property of private corporations is
deemed a trust fund for the payment of the debts of the corporation; so that the creditors have a lien, or right of priority of
payment on it, in preference to any of tht: stockholders of the
corporation. Thus, for example: "The capital stock of an incorporated bank is deemed a trust fund for all the debts of the
corporation: and no stockholder can entitle himself to any dividend or share of such capital stock, until all the debts are paid,
and if the capital stock should be divided, leaving any debts
unpaid, every stockholder, receiving his share of the capital
stock, would, in equity, be held liable pro ratd to contribute to
the iischarge of such debts out of the fund in his own hands."
In conformity with this is the doctrine held by this court in
Mumma v. The Potomac Company, 8 Peters, 281.
The cases of Wood v. Dummer, 3 Mason, 308; Wright v.
Petrie, 1 Smedes & Marsh. 319; Nevitt v. Bank of Port Gibson, 6 Id. 513 ; Hightower v. Thornton et al. 8 Georgia R. 493 ;
Nathan v. Whitlock, 3 Edwards, C. R. 215, affirmed by the
chancellor, (9 Paige, 152,) contain elaborate' examinations of
this doctrine, and it has been affirmed and applied in many
other cases.
So far, therefore, as the property of this bank has become
vested in the State or gone tb its use, it is so vested and used,
charged with a trust in favor of this complainant, as an unpaid
creditor, unless there is something in the character of the parties, or the consideration upon which, or 1;he operation of the
lqws by fdrce of which, it has been transferred, taking the case
out of 'the principles above laid down.
Afd, first, as to the character of the parties. By the charter of
this bank, the State, of Arkansas became its sole stockholder.
But the bank was a distinct trading corportion, having a complete separate existence, enabled to enter -into valid contracts
binding itself alone, and having a specific capital stock, provided, and held out to the public as the means to pay its debts.
The obligations of its contracts; the funds. provided for their
performance, and the equitable rights of its creditors were in
no way affected by the fact, that a sovereign state paid in its
capital, and consequently became entitied to its profits. When
paid in and vested in the corporation, the capital stock became chargeable at once with the trusts, and subject to the
uses declared and fixed by the charter, to the same extent, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

309

Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

for the same reasons, as it would have been if contributed by
private persons.
That a State, by becoming interested with others in a banking corporation, or by owning all the capital stock, does not
impart to that corporation any of its privileges or prerogatives,
that it lays down its sovereignty, so far as respects the transactions of the corporation, and exercises no power or privilege in
respect to those transactions not derived from the charter, has
been repeatedly affirmed by this cburt, in the Bank of the
United States v. The Planters Bank, 9 Wheat. 904; Bank of
Kentucky v. Wistar et al. 3 Pet. 431; Briscoe v. The Bank of
Kentucky, 11 Id. 324; Darrington et al. v. The Bank of Alabama, 13 How. 12. And our opinion is, that the fact that the
capital stock of this corporation came from the State which
was solely interested in the profits of the business, does not
affect the complainant's right, as a creditor, to be paid out of its
property; a right which, as we have seen, follows the fund into
the hands of every person, save a bond fidd creditor or purchaser, and which a court of equity is bound to enforce by its
decree against any party except such a creditor or purchaser
capable by law of being brought within its jurisdiction.
That the State of Arkansas is capable of being thus sued,
has been decided, after a careful examination, by the Supreme
Court of that State, in this suit; and as this is purely a question of local law, depending on the constitution and statutes of
the State, we follow that decision, and hold, in conformity therewith, that by its own consent the State has become liable to a
decree in favor of the complainant in this suit, if the complainant has valid grounds entitling him to the relief prayed.
Whether there was any thing in the consideration or circumstances of the transfers of the property of the bank to the State,
or to its use, which relieved that property from the trust in favor
of creditors, may best be examined under the next question,
which is, do the laws, by force of which these transfers were
made, impair the obligation of any contract with the complainant.
This question can be answered only by ascertaining what
contracts existed, and what obligations were attached to them,
and then by examining the actual operation of those laws upon
those contracts and their obligations.
The plaintiff was the bearerof bills of the bank, by each of
which the bank promised to pay him, on demand, a certain sum
of money. Of course these payments were to be made out of
the property of the bank. By the laws of the State, existing
when these contracts were made, their bearer had the right, by
legal process, to compel their performance by the levy of an

310

SUPREME COURT.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

execution on the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements 'of the
bank, by garnisheeing its debtors, and by resorting to a court of
equity to reach- equitable assets, or property conveyed to others
than creditors and bond fide purchasers.
Such were these contracts and their obligations; and it would
seem to require no argument to prove that a law authorizing
and requiring such a corporation to distribute its property
among its stockholders; or transfer it to its sole stockholder,
leavfmg its bills unredeemed, would impair the obligation of the
contracts contained in those bills. The cases of Bronson v.
Kinzie et al. 1 How. 311; and McCracken v. Hayward, 2 Id.
60S,which wvill be mbre particularly adverted to hereafter, leave
no d7oubt on that point. - Indeed it has not been attempted to
maintain, that such a law, operating on the property of a mere
private corporation, whose charter the legislature could not repeal, would be valid. But it is argued tat this is a different
case. That the. egislafure has power to destroy this corporation and thereupon its contracts are no longer in e,istence, and
cannot be enforced against the property of the corporation,
which, upon the repeal of its charter, reverts to the grantors of
its lands and esoheats, so far as it is personalty, to the State,
and that, if it be in the power of the State thus to destroy the
remedies of creditors, by repealing the charter, their rights must
be considered to be entirely subject to the will of the State, and
.no law can impair the obligation of their contracts, because
subjection to any law which may be passed belongs to the very
existence of such contracts. Or, to express the same ideas in
different words, that the State created and can destroy the corporation and all its contracts, Lnd, as it can thus destroy them
by repealing the charter, it can modify, obstruct, and abridge the
rights of creditors and the obligations 'of their contracts, without repealing
'the charter.
Neither these premises, nor thd conclusion deduced from them,
can be admitted.
This banldng corporation, having no other stockholder than
the State, it i not doubte that the State might repeal its charter; but that the effect of such a repeal would le entirely to
destroy the executory contracts of -,he corporation, and to withdraw its property from the just claims of its creditors, cannot
be adroittefd. If such -were the effect of :. repeal of an act incorporating a bank containing no express power of repeal, it
might be difficult to encouiter the objection, that the repealing
law was invalid, as conflicting with the- Constitution of the
Unired States. This arguiient was pressed on this court, in
the case of 'Mumma v. The Potomac Company, (8 Pet.) and it
was met by the following explicit language:

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

811

Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

"We are of opinion, that the dissolution of the corporation,
under the acts of Virginia and Maryland, cannot in any just
sense be considered, within the clause of the Constitution of the
United States on this subject, an impairing of the obligation of
the contracts of the company by those States, any more than
the death of a private person can be said to impair the obliga.
tion of his contracts. The obligation of those contracts sur.
vives; and the creditors may enforce their claims against any
property belonging to the corporation, which has not passed into
the hands of bonl fide purchasers, but is still held in trust fox
the company, or for the stockholders thereof, at the time of its
dissolution, in any mode permitted by the local laws."
Indeed, if it be once admitted that the property of an insolvent trading corporation, while under the management of its
officers, is a trust fund in their hands for the benefit of creditors, it follows, that a court of equity, which never allows a
trust to fail for want of a trust.ee, would see to the execution
of that trust, although by the dissolution of th6 corporation, the
legal title to its property had been changed. Mumma v. The
Potomac Company, 8 Pet. 281; Wright v. Petrie, 1 S.&. A.
Ch. 1. 319; Nevitt v. The Bank of Port Gibson, 6 S. & M. 513;
1 Ed. Ch. R.; S. C. 9 Paige; Read v.. Frankfort Bank, 23
Maine R. 318. And, in this point of view, the decision of this
court, in Lennox et al. v. Roberts, (2 Wheat. 373,) is applicable.
It was a suit in equity, brought by persons to whom, at the
expiration of the charter of the Bank of the United States, its
effects were conveyed by deed, in trust for creditors and stockholders. Among these effects were certain promissory notes
indorsed by the defendant, which the bill prayed he might be
compelled to pay. The complainants had not the legal title
transferred to them by indorsement upon the notes. This court
held that the suit was maintainable. And this decision necessarily involves two points. First. That the expiration of the charter had not released the indorser. Second. That a court of
equity would lend its aid to trustees for creditors of the bank,
to enforce payment .of the notes. We do not think that the
omission of the bank to appoint a trustee, would vary the sub.
stantial rights of creditors in a court of equity.
Whatever technical difficulties exist in maintaining an action
at law by or against a corporation after it6 charter has been repealed, in the apprehension of a court of equity, there is no
difficulty in a creditor following the property of the corporation
into the hands of any one not a bondfide creditor or purchaser,
and asserting his lien thereon, and obtaining satisfaction of his
just debt out of that fund specifically set apart for its payment
when the debt was contzacted and charged with a trust for all

312

SUPREME COURT.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

the creditors when in the hands of the corporation; which trust
the repeal of the charter does not destroy. Chancellor Kent,
in 2 Com. 307, n., says, "The rine of the common law has in
fact become obsolete. It has never been applied to insolvent
or dissolved moneyed corporations in England. The sound doctrine now is, as shown by statutes and judicial decisions, that
the capital and debts of banking and other moneyed corporations, constitute a trust fund and pledge for the payment of creditors and stockholders, and a court of equity will lay hold of
the fund, and see that it be duly collected and applied. The
c.ase of Hightower v. Thornton, 8 Georgia R. 491, and other
cases-before referred to in this opinion, are in conformity with
this doctrine; and, in our judgment, a law distributing the property of an insolvent trading or banking corporation among its
stockholders, or giving it to strangers, or seizing it to the use of
the State, would as clearly impair the obligation of its contracts
as a law giving to the heirs the effects of a deceased natural
person, to the exclusion of his creditors, would impair the obligation of his contracts.
But if it could be maintained, that the repeal of the charter
of this corpoi-ation would be operative to destroy the obligation
of its contracts, it would not follow that any thing short of a
repeal could have that effect. The only ground upon which
such a power could be claimed is, that inasmuch as the power
of repeal exists when the contract is made, and inasmuch as the
necessary effect of a. repeal is to put an end to the obligation
of the contracts of the corporation, ail its contracts are made
subject to this contingency, and with an inherent liability to be
thus de5stroyed.' We have already said, that it is not the necessary ffect -of a repeal of the charter to destroy the obligations
of contracts; but if it were, and they were entered into subject
to.this liability, upon what ground could it be maintained, that
merely suspending certain powers of the corporation, its existence being preserved, can be followed by any such consequence?
Surely it is not the negessary effect of a prohibition to transact
new business, ,to destroy contracts already made; and if not,
how can the right and power to destroy them be considered to
wow out of a power to make such a prohibition? or how can
itbe fairly assumed, bepause the creditor knew when he received
the contract of thebank that the legislature could at any time
deprive it of power to enter into new engagements, and therefore must be taken to have assented to the exercise of that
power at the discretion of the legislatre, that he must also be
considered as assenting to the exercise of a totally different
power viz. fhe power to destroy contracts already made? Legislative powers, over contracts lawfully existing when the con-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

313

Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

tracts are formed, affect the nature and enter into the obligations of those contracts. But such powers can be exerted only
in the particular cases in reference to which they have been reserved; and they are inoperative in all other cases. And, until
such a case arises, the obligation of such a contract can no
more be impaired tlhan if it were under no circumstances subject to legislative control. The assumption that, because the
legislature may destroy a contract by repealing the charter of
the corporation which made it, therefore such a contract may
be impaired, or altered, or destroyed, in any manner the legislature may think fit, without repealing the charter, is wholly
inadmissible.
Now the charter of this bank has never been repealed. On
the contrary the 28th section of the act of the 31st day of January, 18413, expressly provided, " That nothing in this act shall
be so construed as to impair or destroy the corporate existence
of the svid Bank of the State of Arkansas, but the charter of
the said institution is only intended to be so limited an& modified as that said bank shall collect in and pay off her debts, abstain from discounting notes, or loaning money, and liquidate
and close up her business as is hereinafter provided." Subsequent laws have still further limited and modified the corporate
powers, but the corporate existence has not been touched, and
the corporation is made a party to this suit, and appears on the
record.
We do not consider, therefore, that the power of the State to
repeal this charter enables the State to pass a law impairing the
obligation of its contracts.
We have thus far considered only the contracts between the
complainant and the bank, arising out of the bills of the bank
held by him, and some of the obligations of those contracts.
But this is not the only contract with the complainant. It is
true.that, as the State was the sole stockholder in this bank, the
charter cannot be deemed to be such a contract between the
State and the corporation as is protected by the Constitution
of the United States. But it is a very different question
whether that charter does not contain provisions, which. when
acted upon by the State and by third persons, constitute in law
a binding cortract with them, the obligation of which cannot
be impaired.
If a person deposit his property in the hands of an agent, he
may revoke the agency and withdraw his property at his pleasure. But if he should request third lpersons to accept the
agent's bills, informing them, at the same time, that he 'had
placed property in the hands of that agent to meet the bills at
their maturity, and upon the faith of such assurance the ggent's
"OL. XV.

27

814

SUPREME COURT.
Currantv. State of Arkansas et al.

bills are accepted,-the principaLcannot, by revoking the agency,
acquire the right to withdraw his property from the hands of
the agent.
.It
is no longer exclusively his. They who, on the faith of its
deposit, have changed their condition, have acquired rights in it.
The matter no longer rests in a mere delegation of a revocable
authority to an agent, but a;contract has arisen between the
principal and. the third persons from the representation made,
and the acts done on the faith of it, and the property cannot be
withdrawn without impairing the obligation of that contract.
Now the charter of this bank provides, .(ยง 1,) that it shall
have a capital stock of one million of dollars, to be raised by
the sale of the bonds of'the State, and also, (ยง 13,) that certain
other funds,.which are specifically described, shall be deposited
therein by the State, and constitute a part of the capital of the
bank, and the bill avers that the bonds of the State, amounting
to one million of dollars, .and also other bonds of the State
amounting to one hundred and forty-six tbousand dollars, authorized 'by a subsequent act of the Assembly, were sold, and
their proceeds, together with the other funds mentioned, were
paid into the bank to constitute its capital stock.
-The bank received this money from the State as the fund to
meet.is engagements with third persons which the State, by the
charter, expressly authorized it to nale for the profit of the State.
Having thus set apart this fund in the hands of the bank, and
invited the public tO give creditkto it, under an assurance that it
had been placed there forthe pufrpose of paying the liabilities
of the bank;, whenever such credit was gien, a contract between
the State and the creditor not to withdraw that fund, to his injury, at once arose. That the charter, followed by the deposit
to an assurance, held out to the
of.the capital stock, amounted
public by the Stte, that anyone who should trust the bank
might rely on that capital for payment, we cannt doubt. And
when a third person aeted on this assurance, and parted with his
property on the faith of it, the transaction had all the elements
of a binding contract, and the State could not withdraw the
fund, or any part of it, without impairing itas obligation.
We proceed, therefore, to examine the laws complained of, to
of the
obligations
upon thethe
operationand
ascertain what is their:the
bank, which are
with
Stat
several contracts with
abve declared to exist. The -learned counsel for the State of
u these laws
Arkansas has, with great ability, presented view of
.hat so far as these
which requires conseation. If is this.
laws withdraw specie and funds from the bank, and appropriate
them to the uses of the State, the State acted in the character of
a creditor, tking a preference over other creditors, and paying

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

315

Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

itself a debt; and that the other laws, by force of which all the
real property of the bank was vested in the State, are not to be
deemed to have been passed in denial of the rights of creditors,
but only the better to protect and give effect to those rights;
that the trust in favor of creditors .still subsists, to be worked
out in such manner as the State shall deem proper.
To maintain the first proposition, it must appear that the
State stood in such a relation to this bank and its creditors at
the time these laws were passed; that it was a creditor, and
could provide by law for the payment of its debt in preference
to other creditors; and secondly, that these laws do not withdraw and apply to the use of the State any greater sum than
the amount of such debt.
In our judgment, the State cannot be considered to have
occupied this position. It had placed its bonds in the possession of the bank, -*ith authority to sell them and hold- their
proceeds as capital. It had also paid over to the bank certain
other funds, with an express declaration, contained in the thirteenth section of the charter, that these also were to b- part of
its capital, and were to. have credited to them their proportion
of dividend of the profits of the business. All these moneys
were thus set apart, in the hands of the bank, as a fund, upon
the credit of which it was to issue bills, and which was to be
liable to answer the engaigements of the bank contracted to its
creditors, in the course of the business which it was authorized
to transact for the profit of the State. Such is the necessary
effect of the express declaration 'in the charter, that these funds
constitute the capital of the bank.
'"hen this bank became insolvent, and all its assets were insufficient to perform its engagements, it is manifest that every
part of these assets stood bound by the contracts which had
been made with the bank upon the faith of the funds thus set
apart by the charter; and it is"equally clear, that the bank no
longer had in its possession any capital stock belonging to the
State. 'Whatever losses a bank sustains, are losses of the
capital paid in by its stockholders; that is the.only fund it has
to lose. When it has become insolvent, it has lost all that
fund, and has nothing belonging to its stockholders. In some
sense a bank may be said to be indebted to its stockholders for
the capital they have paid in. With the leave of the State,
they have a right to withdraw it, after all debts are paid, and,
if the State is itself the sole stockholder, it may withdraw its
capital while any of it shall remain. But, from the very nature
of things, it cannot withdraw capital from an insolvent bank,
because it has none of their capital remaining. When insolvent, its assets belong solely to its creditors.

816

SUPREMiE COURT7.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

It is unnecessary, therefore, to decide whrct were the rights and
powers of the State, in respect to any portion of thesefunds,
while the bank continued solvent. When it became insolvent,
when its entire property was insufficient to pay its debts, it no
longer had any capital stock belonging to the State, and, therefore, none could be withdrawn, without appropriating by law
to the use of the State what by the charter stood pledged to
creditors, and such a law impairs the obligations of the contracts
of the bank, and also the obligation of the zontract between the
State and the creditors, arising from the provisions of the
charter devoting these funds to the payment of the debts of
the bank.
In addition to this, it must be observed that the averments
of the bill, which are confessed by the demurrer, show that the
whole amount of the funds mentioned in the thirteenth section
of the charter, which it is claimed the State had the right to
withdraw, was $350,753; and that the amount actually withdrawn and appropriated to the use of the State, was at least
$400,000. On an investigation of the accounts, these averments
might appear to be erroneous; but we are obliged to consider
them to be true, as they are confessed on the record.
Our opinion is, that these laws, which withdraw from the
bank the sum of $400,000, according to ihe averments in the
bill, cannot be supported upon the ground that the State had
the right, as a creditor of the bank, to appropriate these funds
to its own use.
Nor can we find sufficient support for the other position, that
the laws divesting the bank of its property and vesting it in the
State, do not impair the obligations of th6 plaintiff's contracts,
because they were not passed in denial, but in furtherance of
the rights of creditors, and to afford them a remedy, and for the
prevention of further loss.
Passing over the laws which, upon thei: face, not only withdrew funds from the bank, but appropriated those funds to the
use of the State, and which, therefore, cannot be supposed to
be in furtherance of the rights of creditors, or intended to protect them from loss, or not to be in denial. of their rights, to so
much the property of the bank as was thus withdrawn, there
are four acts complained of by the bill, which require examination, with a view to see whether they can be considered as
remedial only, and in that point of view consistent with the
obligations of the contracts of the plaintiff. The first is the act
of January 4, 1845. The seventeenth section of this act is as
follows: "That said financial receivers b 3 required to receive,
in whole or in part Payment of any debt due the bank, the
bonds of the State which weresold in good faith to put said

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

bank and branches in operation, notwithstanding the outstanding circulation of said bank and its branches may not be taken
UP.,,
We cannot attribute to this provision of law any other
meaning or effect than what is plainly apparent on its face.
It authorizes and requires the assets of the bank to be appropriated to pay debts of the State; and we cannot conceive how
this can be reconciled with the rights of creditors to those assets,
or how it can consistwith the execution of a trust in their favor,
or how it differs from the other laws appropriating the property
of this insolvent bank to the use and benefit of the State.
The circumstances that these bonds were sold by the State,
through the agency of the bank, to obtain funds to constitute
the capital of the bank, do not make them debts of the bank.
They were bonds under the seal of the State, signed by the
governor, and countersigned by the treasurer, containirrg an
acknowledgment that the State of Arkansas stood indebted,
and a promise by'the State to pay. The president and cashier
of the bank are empowered to transfer them by indorsement;
but no liability, even of the conditional character which arises
from the indorsement of negotiable paper by the law merchant,
is attached by the charter to these indorsements, and, from the
nature of the casewe do not see how any such could have been
intended. We do not deem it necessary to determine, whether,.
under the fifteenth section of the charter, the bank was made
liable for the accruing interest on the bonds. It would seem
that this section is merely directory to the general board, and
was intended to provide for the payment of interest out of expected profits; but however this may be, to suppose that the
charter intended the fund raised by the sale of these bonds, and
which it held out to creditors as capital of the bank, could, at
any time, be appropriated to pay thesebonds, leaving the creditors, who had dealt with the bank on the faith of that capital,
wholly unpaid, would be to give it a construction not supported
by any provision which we have been able to discover in it, and
directly in conflict with its manifest purpose and meaning. For
in no fair sense can the bank be considered to have had the
proceeds of these bonds as so much capital, if it was liable, at
the pleasure of the State, to be swept away at any moment to
pay the debts which'the State had contracted to borrow it. In
such a condition of things, these proceeds would be nothing
more than a deposit, payable on demand; and to call*them
capital, and allow the public to trust to them as such, would
involve a plain contradiction.
Indeed, upon this construction of the chqrter, taken in connection with the alleged right to withdraw at pleasure all the other
27*

SUPREME COURT.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

funds deposited, the bank had no proper capital which was
bound by its contracts; and this would render it extremely
difficult to maintain the validity of the charter under the tenth
section of the first article of the Constitution of the United
States, prohibiting the States from emitting bills of credit. It
is well known that the power of the several States to create
corporations, to issue bills, and transact business for the sole
benefit of the State which appointed the corporate officers, and
was alone interested in the bank, has been from time to time
seriously questioned. The cases of Briscoe v. The Bank of
Kentucky, 11 Peters, 257, ad Darrington et al. v. The Bank
of Alabama, 13 Howard, 12, have settled this question, in reference to such banks as were involved in those cases. But the
principal ground on which such bills were distinguished from
bills of credit emitted by the State, was, that they do not rest
on the credit of the State, but on the credit of the corporation
derived from its capital stock.
But if the charter of the .bank has not provided any fund,
effectually chargeable with the redemption of its bills, if what
is called its capital is liable to be withdrawn at the pleasure of
the State, though no means of redeeming the bills should remain,
then the bills rest wholly upon the faith of the State and not
upon the credit o! the corporation, founded on its property.
We do not perceive, in the charter of the State Bank of Arkansas,
an intention.to create such a bank and emit such bills; on the
contrary we think it plainly appears to have been intended to
make a bank having a real capital, on the credit of 'which its
business was to be transacted; and this intention is necessarily
in conflict with the existence of the power anywhere to appropriate the funds of the bank, after it became insolvent, to pay
debts of the State contracted to borrow the. money which constituted that capital.
By the act of December 23, 1846, the fine.ncial receivers were
authorized in certain cases to pay judgmert creditors in notes
of non-resident debtors, provided such judgment creditors would
convey to the State all lands of the bank on which they had
levied; and by another act, passed on the same day, all conveyances of real estate purchased for, or taken in payment of, any
debt due to the bank, were required to be made to the State, and
all such titles were declared to be vested in the State. The
second section of this law is in the following words: " That
the governor is hereby authorized to exchange any property, so
taken by the said bank, for an equal amo-ant of the bonds of
the State executed for the benefit of said istitution ;.provided
that such 'property shall not be exchariged with the holders of
such bonds at less prices than were allowed by the bank for the

DECEMBER TER9, 1863.

319

Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

same, and that the governor be authorized to make titles and
give acquittances for the same; and this act shall take effect and
be in force from and after its passtge."1
If this law had contained only the frst section vesting the
real property of the bank in the State, and providing no remedy
by which this complainant, as a creditor of the bank, could
reach it, we think it would have impaired the obligation of his
contracts. True, it does not touch the right of action against
the bank; if only withdraws the real property from the reach
of legal process, and thus affects the remedy.- But it by no
means follows, because a law affects only the remedy, that it
does not impair the obligation of the .contract. The obligation
of a contract, in the sense in which those words are used in the
Constitution, is that duty of performing it, which'is recognized
and enforced by the laws. And if the law is so changed that
the means of legally enforcing this duty are materially impaired,
the obligation of the contract no longer remains the, same.
This has been the doctrine of this court from a very early
period. In Green-v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, Mr. Justice Washington, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It is no answer
that the acts of Kentucky now in question, are regulations of
the remedy and not of the right to the lands. If these acts so
change the nature and extent of existing remedies as materially
to impair the rights and interests of the owner, they are just as
much a violation of the compact as if they directly overturned
his rights and interests." In Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311,
M. Chief Justice Taney, delivering the opinion of the court,
and speaking of the above rule, as laid down in Green v. Biddle,
said: " We concur entirely in the porrectness of the rule above
stated. The remedy is the part of the municipal law which
protects the right, and the obligation by which it enforces and
maintains it. it is this protection which this clause in the Constitution was mainly intertded to secure."
The difficulty of determining, in some cases, whether the
change in the remedy has materially impaired the rights and interest of the creditor, must be admitted. But we do not think
any such difficulty exists in this case. The decision of this court
in McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 608, must be considered as
settling this question. In that case the law under consideration
provided that a sale should not be made of property levied on
under an execution, unless it would bring. two thirds of its
valuation by three householders. It was held that such a law,
so obstructed the remedy as to impair the obligtion of the con-.
tract. The law now in question certainly presents a far more
serious obstruction, for it withdraws the real property of the
bank altogether from the reach of legal process, provides no

320

SUPREM1E COURT.
Curran v. State of Arkansas et al.

substituted remedy, and leaves the creditor, as is truly said by
the Supreme Court of Arkansas, in its opinion in this case, "in
a condition in which his rights live but in grace, and his remedies in entreaty only."
But not only does this law withdraw the real property from
the bank, and vest it in the State, but by the second section, the
terms of which have been given, the property so withdrawn is
expressly appropriated to pay the bonds of the State. An appropriation, which, as has been above stated, cannot be reconciled with the preservation of the rights of creditors, whether
those rights are to be protected by existing legal remedies, or in
any other manner.
The same observations apply to so much of the act of the
9th of January, 1849, as required the officers of the bank to receive in payment of debts due to the bank, bonds of the State
issued to obtain capital to put in operation the Real Estate
Bank of the State of Arkansas, which bonds are averred in the
bill to have amounted to $2,000,000. If a law which withdrew
assets of the bank to pay bonds sold to raise its capital, impaired the obligation of the complainant's contracts, it would
probably not be supposed that a law applying such assets to
pay bonds of the State sold to raise capital for another bank,
could be free from that objection.
It only remanms to consider the third question: whether it appears by the record that the Supreme Court of Arkansas held
these laws to be valid, and by reason thereof dismissed the
complainant's bill.
Each of thpse laws is specifically referred to in the bill, and
its operation upon the.property of the bank averred, and made
a subject of complaint. If a private person had received assets
of the bank in the same manner they are alleged in the bill to
have been received by the State, he must have been held amenable to the complainants as a creditor of the bank, in a court
of equity. We have already stated that, by the local law of
Arkansas, the State stands in the same predicament as a private
person, in respect to being chargeable as a trustee, unless it is
exempted by force of the laws in question It necessarily follows, therefore, that the Supreme Court of the State hela these
laws valid, and that by force of them the State was not subject
to the principles upon which it would otherwise have been
chargeable.,
It is sufficient, to give this court jurisdiction under the 25th
section of the judiciary act, that it appears by the record that
the question, whether a law of a State impaired the obligation
-of a contract, was necessdrily involved in the decision; and that
such law was held to be valid, and the decision made against

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

321

Curran v. State of Arkansag et al.

the plaintiff in error by reason of its supposed validity. Armstrong v. The Treasurer of Athens County, 16 Peters, 281';
Crowell v. Randell, 10 Peters, 392; McKenney v. Carroll, 12
Peters, 66.
The result is, that so much of each of the said laws of the
State of Arkansas, as authorized and required the cancellation
of the bonds of the State, given for money borrowed of the Bank
of the State of Arkansas, or authorized and required the withdrawal of any part of the specie or other property of that bank,
and the appropriation thereof to the use of the State, or authorized and required the application of any part of the assets or
property of that bank to pay bonds issued by the State and sold
to raise capital for the Bank of the State of Arkansas, or for the
Real Estate Bank of the State of Arkansas, or authorized and
required real property purchased for the Bank of the State of
Arkansas, or taken in payment of debts due to the Bank of the
State of Arkansas to be conveyed to and the title thereof vested
in the State of Arkansas, impaired the obligation of contracts
made with the complainant as the lawful holder and bearer of'
bills of the Bank of the State of Arkansas, and so were inoperative and in-valid. And, consequently, the judgment of the Supreme Court of that State must be reversed, and the cause remanded, that it may be proceeded in as the Constitution of the
United States requires.
Mr. Justice CATRON, lr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr. Justice NELSON, dissented.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
As this case comes up from a State court under the 25th
section of the judiciary act, the first question presented is,
whether we have jurisdiction to decide the merits; and I am of
opinion, that no violation of any contract rendered, which the
complainant sets vp a right to recover, has occurred within the
sense of the Constitution, by the laws passed by the State of
Arkansas, and which laws are complained of in the bill.
On the merits, I have formed no opinion, not having authority
to inquire into them, as I apprehend
Mr. Justice. DANIEL.
From the decision of this court, just announced 1 am constrained to declarc my dissent. According to my apprehension
there is no legitimate ground of jurisdiction and of course for
the interference of this court in this case, within the just intent
and objects of the 10th section of the 1st article of the Cbnstitution. By the legislature of the State of Arkansas, '-hich has

322

'SUPREME COURT.
Curran i7. State of Arkansa3 et al.

been assailed, the obligation of no contract is denied. The claims
of every stockholder and every noteholder of the Bank of the
State of Arkansas are, in reference to that corporation, fully
recognized. The utmost that can .be ojected to the action
of the State is, that in a contest amongst the creditors of
a failing corporation, the State, as one oF those creditors, and
the largest creditor of the number, may have appropriated to
herself a portion of the- assets of that corporation greater than
would have been warranted by perfect equity, or other eauality,
amongst all the creditors. But should thi: conclusion be con-.
ceded, the concession implies no attempt to deny or impair
any obligation of the bank to satisfy every creditor. It might
raise a question of fraud or unfairness in tLe action of the State
in reference to the other creditors of the bank, but it carries with
it no interference with the obligation or the sanctity of their contract with the corporation, whatever that irdght be. The mere
question of fraud, in the execution or non..performance of contracts, surely the Constitution never intended to constitute as a
means by which the federal authorities were to supervise the
polity and acts of the State governmenti. Such a claim of
power in the federal govemment'would justify the interference
with, and the supervision by this court of any act of the State
legislatures, and of every transaction of pilvate life, and in the
necessarily imperfect attempts to exercise inch a power, would
encumber it with a mass of business, which would disappoint
and entirely prevent the performance of its legitimate duties.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court 6f Arkansas, and.was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme
Court in this cause. be, and the same'is h-reby, reversed, with
costs, and that this cause be, and-the same is hereby, remanded
to the said Supreme Court, in order that such further proceedings may be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this
court, as to law and justice. and the Constitetion of the United
States, shall appertain. '

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Anderson et al. v. Bock.

REUBEN

A-NDERSON AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. -.CHAZL

BocK.

The city of 'New Orleans sold a lot in the city for a certain srm of money, the paymcnt of whi h was not eacted, but the interest of it, payable quarterly, remained
a a ground rent upon the l'jt. It was further stipulated, that if two of these payments
should be in arrear, the city could proceed judicially for the recovery of possession,
with damages, and the vendees were to forfeit their title.
Six Years afterwards, the city conveyed the Eame lot to another person, who transferred it to an assignee.
The twl of the first vendee could not be divested without some judicial proceeding,
and the dissolution of the contract could not be inferred merely from the fact that
the city had made a second conveyance.
ThervR'me, the deed to the second vendee, and from him to his assignee, were not, of
then selves, evidence to support the plea of prescription. The city, not having resurned itv title in the regular mode, could not transfer either alawful title or possession to its ,:cond vendee.
The Circuit Court having instructed the jury that, in its opinion, under the written
pro_,fs and law of the case, the plea of prescription must prevail, and the written
proofs not being in the record, this court cannot test the accuracy of its conclusion.

THrs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The facts in the case are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted, on printed briefs, by Mr. Bemis, for the
plaintiff in error, with a brief by M4essrs. Stockton and Steele,
and by .MlIr. Bealamin, for the defendant in error.

Plaintiffs' Points.
I. The charge of the court was manifestly improper and illegal, as the judge stated to the jury, "it was his opinion, that
under the written proofs and law of the case, the defence of
prescription, set up by the defendant, must prevail."
This was not a deduction for him to draw, but it was pecu-

liarly the province of the jury to decide on the evidence.

The

defence of prescription involves both matter of fact and law;
of the former the jury are exclusive judges, and of the latter

they are also judges, under the instruction of the court as to
what the law is.
This expression of opinion by the judge, in delivering his
charge, could form, legally, no part of the charge.
He does not tell the jury what the law is, but only that, as

the law stands, the proofs in the cause make out the defence
of prescription.
II. The court erred in charging the jury, that the act of sale
from the city to John Clay, datbd 18th November, 1816, and the
act of sale from Clay to defendant, dated 30th January, 1823,

SUPREME

COU.RT.

Anderson et al. v. Bock.

were of themselves evidence of possession in the defendant and
his vendor, Clay, to support the plea of prescription.
Possession is a matter in pats, and it can:aot be established by
a mere paper conveyance of the property.
II. The court erred in refusing to instruct the jury, as required l y the plaintiffs, "that by the acts of sale, dated 15th
October, 1810, from the city of New Orleans to Sticher and
Anderson, the said city transferred to Sticher and Anderson
the title and possession of the property, and that neither the
title nor possession thereof can be presumed to be afterwards
in the city; but, on the contrary, the city must show, by proper
evidence, that the title and possession again came lawfully into
its hands.
This was simply a requirement, on the part of the plaintiffs,
that the court should instruct the jury that the elder title, emanating from the city to Sticher and Anderson, must nrevail
over the younger title from the city to Clay.
The deeds to Sticher and Anderson were made on consideration of an annual ground rent, to be paid by them for a certain number of years, and the further consideration of a stipulated price, to be paid by them after the texm for the continuance of the ground rent should have expired. This term for
the continuance of the ground rent had -xpired many years
before the institution of this suit. No complaint has been
made rhat Sticher and Anderson did not pay the considerations stipulated in the deed to them. There can, then, be no
good reason why their prior title shall not prevail over the junior
title of the defendant.
Defendant's Points.
The first bill of exceptions complains, that " the judge refused
to charge the jury, that, by the act of sale, dated 15th October,
1810, from the city of New Orleans, to Sticher and Anderson,
the city transferred to them the title and pc.ssession of the property; that neither could afterwards be presumed to be in the
city, but, on the contrary, the city must show, by proper evidence, that the title and possession came lawfully into its
hands ;" and further complains that the judge, on the contrary,
charged the jury, "that the act -of sale from the city of New
Orleans to John Clay, dated the 18th November, 1816, and the
act of sale from Clay to defendant, dated the 30th January,
1823,- were of themselves evidence of possessign in the defendant, Bock, and his vendor, Clay, to support the plea of prescription set up by the defendant."
The second bill of exceptions complains that "the judge
stated to the jury, that it was his oninion, that, under the written

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

325

Anderson et al. v;Bock.
proofs and law of the case, the defence of prescription, set up
by the defendant, must prevail."
Now, in relation to these bills of exceptions, it is to be observed that aeither of them pretends on its face to set forth
all the evidence offered in the cause, but only a part of the
As regards the second bill of exceptions,
written evidence.
therefore, it is clear that this court is without the means of determhiing whether the charge of the judge was correct or not;
and, in the absence of such means, the presumption of law is,
that the judgment of the lower court was supported by the written
proofs. For aught that appears in the record, there may have
been offered in evidence a written admission by the plaintiffs
that the defendant had been in possession, as is alleged in the
answer, for a length of time sufficient to establish prescriptive
right to the property; or written contracts, receipts,,or other
documents, proving him to have inclosed and built upon the
property, or leased it to tenants, and collected rents. Without
a statement showing what the written evidence was, it is impossible to say that there was error in the charge "that under the
written proofs and law of the case, the defence of prescription
must prevail."
In order to determine the propriety of the charge complained
of in the first bill of exceptions, the issues presented by the
pleadings must be taken into consideration.
The petition alleges possession by the defendant, but asserts
the possession to be unlawful.
. The answer admits the possession, and asserts it to have
been lawful under just title for upwards of thirty years, and
sets forth the deed under which the possession was acquired,
to wit, the deed of 30th January, 1823.
The fact of possession being thus asserted by both parties,
the only question was, whether the possession was lawful, or in
good faith.
It appears, by the bill of exceptions, that the defendant
showed, as the basis of his possession, the deed from Clay, of
30th January, 1823, being at a date twenty-seven years anterior
to the institution of the suit.
By reference to the act of sale to defendant, it wvill appear,
that when it was executed, " Michael Bock, being prcsdnt delared that he accepts this act of sale and conveyane., is in
possession of the said property, and contented therewith." This

deed was in evidence without objection, exception, or reservati6n.
Now the article 2455, of the Civil Code, provides that "t1he
law considers the tradition or delivery of iinmovables as always
accompanying the public act which transfers the property."
28
VOL. XV.

326

SUPREIE COURT.
Anderson et al. v. Bock.

The judge, therefore, had before him,
1st. The admission by plaintiffs of the fact of defendant's
possession.
2d. The proof that this possession had originated in 1823, and
was held by virtue of the sale made in thaxI year, as recited in
the deed itself.
3d. The legal presumption established by article 2455 of the
actual delivery of the immoyable sold.
4th. The absence of any allegation or pretenqe by plaintiffs
of adverse possession in themselves or any other person than
the defendant between the year 1823 and the institutior of the
suit
The article 3442 of the Civil Code provides that "he who
acquires an immovable in good faith and by a just title, prescribes for it in ten years, if the real owner resides in the State,
and after twenty years if the owner resides out of the State."
It is obvious, from these premises, that the sole question before the court and jury was, whether the defendant had acquired
a good title by prescription, and that the court did not err in
charging the jury that the defence had been established.
The prayer of the plaintiff that the judge should charge the
jury in relation to the effect of the sale from the city to Sticher
and Anderson, was properly refused, because wholly irrelevant.
The question was not whether Sticher and Anderson had acquired a valid title in 1810, but whether the defendant had
subsequently acquired a good title to the same. property by
prescription, and the judge properly confined his charge to the
latter inquiry, the only one relevant to the issue.
The language of the charge is, that the azts of.sale set up by
defendants "were of themselves eyidence of possession in the
defendant, Bock, and his vendor, Clay, to support the plea of
prescription."
The Judge did not charge that these acts were conclusive or
sufficient proofs, but that they were evidence of possession; ana
that they were evidence is fully established by the terms of the
article 2455, above quoted. See also articles 3405, 6, 7, 3414,
3450.
The point in dispute is fully settled in the jurisprudence of
Louisiana.
In the case of Ellis v. Prevost et al., 13 La. Rep. 230, 235,
the principle is thus stated:
"No physica:. act, in taking posses.-ion under a sale by notarial act, is necessary. The intention
of the purchaser, which the law presumes, coupled with the
power which the act of sale gives, vests the possession in him.
The right is taken for the fact, and he is seized of the thing corporally. Article 3405 goes on to provide that when a person has

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Anderson et al. v. Bock.

once acquired corporal possession, the intention which he has
of possessing suffices to preserve it in him, although he may
have ceased to have the thing in ac ial custody."
It it, therefore, respectfully submitted that the plaintiffs have
failed to show error as alleged, and that there is no legal ground
for disturbing the verdict and judgment of the lower court.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court
The plaintiffs commenced a petitory action, as heirs at law
of Thomas Anderson, to recover a lot of land in the city of New
Orleans, of which they aver he died seised and that the defendant wrongfully detains
The defendant denied their claim to the property, and pleaded
prescription under a just and Yali- . title, with undisputed possession for upwards of thirty years.
Upon the trial, the plaintiffs produced a conveyance of the lot
by a notarial act from the city of New Orleans to Sticher and
Anderson, dated in 1810, upon the consideration of fifteen huffdred and eighty dollars. This sum was to remain a charge
upon the lot, and the interest upon it, at the rate of six per cent.
per annum, was to be paid in quarterly instalments. Upon a
failure to pay two of these instalments, the city was authorized
to proceed judicially for the recovery of possession, and for the
damages arising from a deterioration of the property, and the
vendees were to forfeit their title. The -other stipulations in
this conveyance are immaterial to the decision of the case.
The defendant relied upon a notarial act from the city of New
Orleans, dated in 1816, conveying the property in the same lot
to one Clay, upon a contract of sale, and an act dated in 1823
from Clay conveying the property to the defendant. In each of
these the vendees acknowledge that possession of the lot had
been delivered at the date of the deeds.
The plaintiffs requested the court to instruct the jury that the
city of New Orleans, by the notarial act of 1810, had transferred
to Sticher and Anderson the title, and the possession of the
property, and that neither the title nor the possession can-be presumed to be afterwards in the city, but that the city should show
that the title and possession came lawfully into its hands. This
request ,as refused by the court, atid the jury was instructed
that the deeds from the city to Clay of 1816, and from Clay to
the defendant in 1823, were of themselves evidence of possession
in the defendant and his vendor to support the plea of prescription. The court further instructed the jury that, under the written proofs and law of the case, the plea of prescription must
prevail These instructions were excepted to, and are here assigned as error.

328

SUPREME COURT.
Anderson et al. v. Bock.

The conveyance from the city to Sticher and Anderson, of
1810, was upon a resolutory condition. The contract between
the parties was not dissolved of right by the non-fulfilment of the
condition, but the party complaining of the breach might have
insisted upon its dissolution, with damages, or upon a specific
performance. C. C. 2041, 2042.
The dissolution of the contract for the non-fulfilment of the
conditions, could not be inferred merely from the fact of a subsequent conveyance by the city of the same property. The title
of the city to the"lot passed to Sticher and Anderson by the
notarial act of 1810, and, to sustain a posterior conveyance of
the city, it should'have been shown, 'either ihat the first contract
had been revoked, or that another title had been acquired. The
court erred, therefore, in refusing the instruztion requested by thp
plaintiffs.
2. To sustain a title by prescription to immovable property,
according to either of the articles of the civil code, referred to in
the pleas, the defendant was required to show "a public, unequivocal, continuous, and uninterrupted possession," "under
the title of owner." " The possessor must have held the property in fact and in right as owner," "though a civil possession
would suffice, if it had been preceded by the corporeal possession." C. C. 3466, 3467, 3453; Devall v. Choppin, 1.5 Lou,
566.
The court has been referred to the civil code, (C. C. 245.5,) to
prove that the claims of the articles of the code we have cited
are fulfilled by the public acts produced by the, defendants.
This article is "that the law considers the tradition or delivery
of immovables as always accompanying the public act which
transfers the property. Every obstacle which the seller afterwards imposes, to prevent the corporeal possession of the buyer,
is considered as a trespass.'
This article was designed to deucrare the operation of a contract for the tralisfer of property when embodied in a public act,
as between the parties to the act. It establishes, that the transfer is complete by the use of apt words of conveyance in such
an act, without the formality of a real deliyery; that the power
of control and enjoyment, transferred by a grantor in such an
act, is equivalent to a manual or physical tradition. $o exactly
the equivalent, that an "interfering obstacle," interposed by the
grantor afterwards, may be treated as ; trespass-that is,
disturbance of the possession of the grantee.
This rule from the Louisiana code, corresponding with that
of the code 'Napoleon, deviates froimthe rule of the Roman and
feudal law, which exacted a formal delivery, to perfect the
transfer of the property.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
al. v. Bock.
Anderson et
I

The rule is in complete harmony with the American system
of conveyancing, which accomplishes the cession of property,
with its incidents of possession and enjoyment, without a resort
to symbolical acts, or inconvenient ceremonies, by the consent
of the owner, legally authenticated.
This explanation of the object of the article of the code, will
enable us to define the limits of its operation. A vendor cannot
transfer a title, or a possession, which is not vested in him. He
cannot, by his conveyance or admissions, affect the claims of
persons whose title is adverse to his. It follows, therefore, that
the recitals in these acts, that possession had been delivered,
and that the vendor was satisfied therewith, are not evidence
roithat corporeal possession, which is the foundation of a pre
scriptive right, in a case like the present. Tropl. De Vente, ยง
26, 40 , C. C. 2233, 223.5; Emmerson v. Fox; 3 La. I. 183;
Ellis v. Prevost, 19 La. 251.
3. As a general rule, the possession necessary to sustain a
prescription is founded upon facts, -which it is the province of a
jury to ascertain. Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. R. 41; Beverly v.
Burke, 9 Geo. R. 4,40.
But the "written proofs," upon which the Circuit Court felt
authorized to instruct the jury that the plea of prescription must
preavail, are not exhibited in the record, and this court cannot,
therefore, test the accuracy of its conclusion.
For the errors in the charge that'we have noticed, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings.
Order.
to
be
heard on the transcript of the
'This cause came on
recotd from the Circuit- Court of the United States, for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions for further proceedings to
be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

330

SUPREME COUR T.
Winans v. Denmead.

Ross WINANs, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v. ADAx, E IwVAR,

AN

TALBOT DENMEAD.
A patent was taken out for making the body of &. burden railroad car of sheet iron,
the upper part being cylindrical, and the lower part n the form of a frustum of a
cone, the under edge 'ofwhich has -aflange secure-I upon it. to which flange a
movable bottom Ls ,ached.
The claim was this. "What I claim as my invention and desire to secure by letterspatent, is, making the body of a ear for the transportation of coal, &c., in the form
of a frustum of a cone, substantially as herein described, whereby the force exerted by the weight of the load presses equally in all directions anld does not tend
to change the form thereof, so that every part resists its- equal proportion, and by.
which aLso the lower part is so reduced as to pass doom within the truck frame ald
between the axles, to lower the centre of gravity of the load without dimiaisling
the capacity of the ear as described. I also claim extending the body of the c,.r
below the connecting pieces of the truck frame and the line of draught, by passing
the connecting bars of the truck frame and the drauht bar, through the body of
the car substantially described."
This patent was not for merely char .ng the form of a machine, but by means of
such change to introduce and employ other mechanical principles or natural powers,
or a new mode of operation, and thus attain a new and useful result.
Hence, where, in a suit brought by the patentee against persons who had constructed
octagonal and pyramidal cars, the District Judge ruied that the patent was good
for conical bodies, but not for rectilinear bodies, this raling was erroneous.
The structure, the mode of operation, and the result atttined, were the same in both,
and the specification claimed in the patent covered ti e rectilinear cars. With this
explanation of the patent, it should have been left to the jury to decide the question
of infringement as a question of fact.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United S ates for the District of Maryland.
It was an' action brought by Ross Wanans for the infringement of a patent-right. The jury, under the instruction of the
District Judge, the late Judge Glenn, then sitting alone, found
a verdict for the defendants; and the plaintiff brought the case
to this court by a writ of error.
The nature of the, case is set forth in 1.he explanatory statement prefixed to the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff
in error.
It was argued by Mr1t. Latrobe, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr.Campbell, for tfe defendant in errcr.
Statement and points of 'plaintiffin error.
On the 26th'June, 1847, Ross Winans, the plaintiff in error,
obtained letters-patent of the United States, for a new and useful improvement in cars for transportation of coal, &c.
The occasion for the invention thus patented, and the prin.
ciple of it, are well set forth in the specification, thus,-..
i"The transportation of coal, and all other heavy articles in
lumps,-has been attended with great injury to the cars, requir-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Winans v. Denmead.

ing the bodies to be constructed with great strength, to resist
the outward pressure on the sides, as well as the vertical pressure on the bottom, due, not only to the weight of the mass, but
the mobility 6f the lumps amongst each other, tending 'to pack,'
as it is technically termed. Experience has shown, that cars on
the old mode-of construction cannot be made to carry a load
greater than their own weight; but, by my improvement, I am
enabled to make -cars of greater durability than those heretofore
made, which will transport double their weight of coal.
"The principle of my invention, by which I am enabled to
olrtain this important end, consists in making the body, or a
portion thereof, conical, by which the area of the bottom is regtuced, and the load exerts an equal strain on all parts, and which
does nQt tend to change the form, but to exert an equal strain
in the direction of the circle; at the same time this form presents the important advantage, by the reduced size of the lower
part thereof, to extend down within the truck and between .the
axles, thereby lowering the centre of gravity of the load."
The specification then gives a detailed description, of the mode
of constructing the cars in question, and proceeds thus: .
"What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent is, making the body of a car for the transportation
of coal, &c., in the form of a frustum of a cone, substantially as
herein described, whereby the force exerted by the weight of the
load presses equally in all directions, and does not tend to
change the form thereof, so that every part resists its equal proportion, and by which also the lower part is so reduced as to pass
down within the truck frame, and between the axles, to lower
the'centre of gravity of the load, without diminishing the capacity of the car as described."
And the specification concludes with a claim for a portion of
the construction, not important in this connection.
From the testimony it appears that cars, constructed by the
plaintiff, in accordarice with the specification, while they weighed but 5.750 lbs. each, carried 18.550 lbs. of coal - making the
weight of the load, in proportion to the weight of the car, as
3.3 to 1 -that the thickness of the sheet iron used in the construction of the bodies was but 3.32ds of an inch, and that the
dimensions of the band around the top .were I of an inch by 2
inches; and it is further shown, in illustration of the importance
of the invention, that the plaintiff, had constructed a model car,
which, weighing but 2,1 tons, carried, nevertheless, 91 tons of
coal "in perfect safety and satisfactorily from Cumberland to
Baltimore." The proportion of the weight of the car, in this
instance, to the weight of coal carried in it, was as 1 to -I
nearly. It appears further, from the testimony, generally, that

SUP REME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

the cars referred to were used in. the transportation of coal from
the mines near Cumberland to Baltimore.
It then appears that the defendants, "1in view for a call for
cars from the mining roads near Cumberland," in 1849, '60,
required their draftsman, Cochrane, to get up a car that would
suit their purposes; that he went to the Reading rcad, and "finding nothing there, returned to Baltimore, and went to the plaintiff's shops, where he saw a car nearly finished, which he examined and measured." That it first occurred to hin. to make.
a square car, but that, as this would inte:.fere with the wheels.
he made an octagonal one.
Another witness proves, that the iron used in the car, thus
built by the defendants, was of the same thickness as that used
by the plaintiff, to wit, 3.32ds of an inch, while the band
around the top was of the same thickness, -- to wit, Aof an inch,
and 11 inches in width.
It thus appears that a pafent was granted, in 1847, to Ross
Winans for a car for carrying coal, whose merits may be summed up thus; -that it carried more coal in proportion to its own
weight than any car previously in use, and that the load instead
of distorting it, preserved it in shape, acting as a framing.
These eminent advantages, which increased the available
power of the locomotive engine, looking to revenue on coal as a
freight, from 50 to 100 per cent. were to be attributed to the
peculiar shape of the car body, consisting of a frustum of a cone,
which permitted the use of iron, as thin as has been described,
lessening, in proportion, the weight of the car, or the weight,
the transportation of which by the locomot.ve gave no return in
revenue; and it appears that, in view of obtaining the best results from his invention, the plaintiff, in 1849, '50, at the instance of the witness Pratt, perfected a nmodel car for certain
mining roads near Cumberland ; - that this model car was
examined and measured by the defendan;'s draftsman, to aid
him in getting up coal cars for other mining companies in 1849
and 1850; and, subsequently, cars of the same weight of material in the bodies, which differed from the plaintiff's in this
only, that while the latter were cylindrical and conical, the
others were octagonal and pyramidal, - were built by the defendants, to the number of 24.
Believing that the cars thus built by the defendants were
built in palpable violation of his patent, the plaintiff brought the
present suit.
It will be seen, by examining the record, that the main question before the jury was, whether the car., so built by the defendants, were substantially the same in principle and mode
of operation with the car described and claimed by the plain-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

333

Winans v. Denmead.

tiff in his specification, and experts were examined on both sides
on this point.
On the part of the defendants it was contended, that the cars
of the defendants were octagonal in shape, while the plaintiff's
were cylindrical.
On the part of the plaintiff it was insisted, that this was immaterial, provided the octagonal car obtained the same useful
results, through the operation of the same principles in its construction; and it was suggested that, if the original construction
of the body in right lines saved the infringement, an hundredsided polygon would be without the patent; and also that, in
poiat of fact, even the conical car was oftener a polygon than
a true curve, owing to the character of the material from which
it was built; and that if, by accident, it came from the shops a
true theoretical cone, a day or two's use made a polygon of it;
and that the immediate tendency of the load of coal, when put
into an octagon car, was to bulge out its size and convert it into
a conical one. All of which was urged for the purpose of showing that the question was necessarily a question as to whether
a question
the change of form was colorable or substantial
of fact, which it belonged to the jury to determine.
It is not necessary, in this statement, and in view of the
questions arising on this appeal, to go into evidence in regard
to the merely colorable difference of construction in detail. All
the 'witnesses, on both sides, proved that the advantages which
Winans proposed to obtain were substantially obtained in the
defendant's cars - the plaintiff's witnesses swearing to the fact
directly, and the defendant's witnesses admitting it on crossexamination; and the only testimony qioted now is that of the
defendant's own and leading witness.
"That the advantage of a reduced Lottom of the car thus
obtained, whether the car was conical or octagonal; that the
strengthening of the bottom, due to the adoption of the conical
form, was the same when the octagonal form was adopted or
the circular; that the circular form was the best to resist the
pressure, as, for instance, in a steam boiler, and an octagonal
one better than the square form; that the octagonal car was not
better than the conical car; that for practical purposes, one was
as good as the other; that a polygon of many sides would be
equivalent to a circle; that the octagon car, practically, was as
good as the conical one; and that, substantially, witness saw no
difference between the two."
The testimony must indeed be all one way, where the plaintiff is willing to rest his case on the defendant's own showing.
In the view of the plaintiff below, there were two questions;
the first for the courti being the construction of the patent; the

334

SUPREME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

second for the jury, being the substantial, or only colorable
difference between the cars in principle and mode of operation.
The plaintiff prayed the Circuit Cout (his Honor, the late
Judge Glenn, sitting alone) accordingly.
In framing the prayer for the court's construction of the specification, the language of the specification was adopted, in
describing the object of the invention; and the court were
asked to say to the jury "that what they had to look at was
not simply whether, in form and circumstances, 'Which may be
more or less immaterial, that which had been done by the defendant varied from the specification of the plaintiff's patent,
but to see whether, in substance and effect, the defendants,
having the same object in view as that set forth in the plaintiff's specification, had, since the date thereof, constructed cars
which, substantially, on the same principle and on the same
mode of operation, accomplished the same result." And to give
more certainty to the prayer, the plaintiff added the instruction
as prayed for by him, "that to entitle the plaintiff to a verdict, it
was not necessary that the body of the defendants' cars should
be conical, in the exact definition of the term, provided the jury
should believe that the form adopted by the defendants accomplished the same result, substantially, with that in view of the
plaintiff, and upon substantially the same principle and in the
same mode of operation."
The language of the first part of the prayer, here quoted, was
taken verbatim, nearly, from the charge of Sir N. C. Tindal to
the jury in the case of Walton v. Potter and Horsfall, Webster's Pat. Cases, 587.
This was a case where the plaintiff's patent was for the substitution of sheets of India rubber for leather for the insertion
of the teeth, in the manufacture of cards for carding wool; and
the infiingement lay in the use of cloth saturated with a solution of India rubber for the same purpose; and the court, after
determining the construction of the specification, gave substantially the same instruction that the plaintiff prayed for here. It
is in this case that C. J. Tindal says, "That if a man has, by
dint of his own genius and discovery, after a patent has been
obtained, been able to give the public, without reference to the
former one, or borrowing from the former one, a new and superior mode of-arriving at the same end, there can be no objection
to his taking out a patent for that purpose. But he has no
right whatever to take, if I may so say, a leaf out of his neighbor's book, &c."
It would be hard indeed to find a case where the court's decision, applied to the facts in this cause, more completely n egatived the right, set up by the defendants, to build the cars

DECEMfB'ER TERM, 1853.

335

Winans v. Denmead.

which they did build; for here, the taking of the leaf out of the
book is not left to inference, but day and date are given for
the act.
To the same point is the case Huddart v. Grimshaw, also
cited in the court below. Webster's Patent Cases, 95.
Here a patent had been obtained for making rope, a part
of the process being. the passage of the strands, while being
twisted, through a tube; and it appeared that they had formerly
passed through a hole in a plate. If the tube and the plate -were
the same, substantially, the difference being colorable only, then
the patent was void, otherwise it was good; and the question
was left to the jury, who found for the plaintiff.
To the same point is the case of Russell v. Cowley & Dixon,
Webster's Patent Cases, 463.
This was the case of a patent for welding iron tubes, by
drawing them, at a welding heat, through a conical hole. The
infringement was the passing them between rollers; and the
question of colorable or substantial difference, was referred to
the jur.
So in the case of Morgan v. Seaward, Webster's Patent Cases,
170, which -was upon Gallaway's patent for paddle wheels of
steam-vessels, and where the question of infringement having
arisen, the Court, Alderson, B., told the jury "that the question would be, simply, whether the defendant's machine was
only colorably different; that is, whether it differed merely in
the substitution of mechanical equivalents for the contrivances
which were resorted to by the patentee." And after referring to
points of construction, the court continues, "Therefore, the two
machines were alike in principle; one man was the first inventor
of the principle, and the other has adopted it; and though he
may have carried it into effect by substituting one mechanical
equivalent for another, still you (the jury) are to look to the
substance, and not the mere form, and if it is in substance an
infringement, you ought to find so."
So, too, in the case of Crossley v. Beverly, growing out of
Clegg's patent for a.gas meter; and referred to by Alderson, B.,
in the case of Jupe v. Pratt and others, Webster's Patent Cases,
144, as follows : "There never was a more instructive case than
that. I remember very well the argument put by the Lord
Chief Baron, who led on that case, and succeeded. There never
were two things to the eye more different than the plaintiff's invention, and what the defendant had done in contravention of
his patent-right. The plaintiff's invention was different inform;
different in construction; it agreed with it only in one thing,
and that was, by moving in the water. A certain point was made
to open either before or after, so as to shut up another, and the

336

SUPREME

COURT.

Winans v. Denmcad.

gas was made to pass through this opening; passing through it,
it was made to revolve it; the scientific men, all of them, said,
"the moment a practical, scientific man has got that principle
in his head, he can multiply, without end, the forms in which
that principle can be made to operate."
As in the case under discussion; the moment a practical,
scientific man is furnished with the idea of giving to the car a
shape which will, by dispensing with th.- framing ordinarily
used, enable him to make it lighter in proportion to its load,
than it has ever been made before, he can iuultiply without end
the forms in which this principle can be made to operate. He
can make the car a polygon of an hundred sides, of twenty
sides, or of eight sides. He can vary the angle of the cone, or
pyramid, through which the coal is discharged, ad infinitum.
He can make the opening at the bottom larger or smaller to
please his fancy. He can avail himself or not of the advantage
of lowering the car, in position, so as tc lower the centre of
gravity. Still the question must always be, whether, whatever
the shape he adopts, he is not availing himself of the principle
first suggested by the patentee; a question which, in a court
of law, is at all times a question not for the court, but the jury;
after the former -hall have given to the specification that construction which 's to govern the latter in determining whether
the infringement complained of falls, subsiantially, in principle
and mode of operation, within the plaintiff's patent.
The authorities here cited, and which were relied on in the
court below, are held to sustain the prayer of the plaintiff; that,
having pronounced upon the construction of the specification,
thequestion of infringement should be left to the jury.
The court below thought differently, ho-wever, and, rejecting
the, prayers of both plaintiff and defendants, instructed the jury,
11That while the patent is good for what is described therein;
a conical body in whole or in part, supported in any of the
modes indicated for a mode of sustaining a conical body on a
carriage or.truck, and drawing the same, and for those principles which are due alone to conical vehicles and not to rectilinear bodies; and it being admitted that the defendant's car
was entirely rectilinear, that there was no infringement of the
plaintiff's patent." See Record, pages 16, 17.
Upon this instruction nothing was left for the jury but to
render a verdict for the defendant. The court had not only settled the construction, but the infringement also.
The present appeal is from this decision of the late district
judge.
The points of the plaintiff in error are,
1. That the court below erred in the construction which it

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

337

Winans v. Denmead.

gave to the specification, should it be held that this construction
limited the plaintiff to the strictly conical form.
And upon this point the authority relied on is the patent itsdlf.
2. That the court below erred, even supposing that its construction of the specification was correct, in excluding the inquiry whether the cars of the defendants were not substantially
the same in principle and mode of operation with those of the
plaintiff; admitting that these last were rectilinear in their sections and not curvilinear.
And upon this point the authorities relied on, are, Walton v.
Potter, Webster's Patent Cases, 687; Huddart v. Grimshaw,
Id. 95; Jupe v. Pratt, citing Crossley v. Beverly, Id. 144: Morgan v. Seaward, Id. 170; Russel v. Crowley, 1l 463; Phillips
on Patents, 125, 6, 7.
(Infringement.) Curtis on Patents, 263, 265, 264, 5, 268;
Citing, Wyeth v. Stone, 1 Story, 273; Odiorne v. Winkley, 2
Gall. 61; Gray v. James, Peters, C. C. R. 394; Bovili v. Moore,
Dav. Pat. Ca. 361.
3. That the court below erred in taking the question of fact
:for the jury.
Upon which point the authorities already cited are relied on.
Defendant's Points.
The defendant in error submits that the court below was right
in refusing the prayer on the other side and giving the instruction
which it did.
1. As to the rejected prtyer of the plaintiff
This prayer asserted the essence of the invention to consist in
the conical form adopted by the patentee, and rightly so asserted,
but the conclusion thence drawn was a noz sequitur. It was
that any other form was a violation. Had the patent claimed
the application of a principle operating through the form of a
cone, and more or less through other forms, and claimed the
principle or mode of operation through whatever shape permitted
it, there would have been some ground for the deduction. But
the claim is confined to a single form, and only through and by
that form to the principles which it embodies; and if, out of
many forms embodying more or less perfectly the same mode
of operation, the plaintiff in error has made his choice of the best,
he is confined to that choice and the rejection which it involves
of all other forms less felicitous. It may be admitted, without
hesitation, that the substitution of mechanical or chemical equivalents, as they are called, will mt affect the rights of a patenteo,
but the cases in which this principle holds are where the mudvuz
operandiembraces more than a single way to reach the desired
end. Where the invention consists of a principle embodied in
VOL. XV.

29

.838

SUPREM1E COURT.
Winans v. Denmead

a single form, the form is the principle a:ad the principle the
form, and there can be no violation of the -principle without the
use of the form. Davis v. Palmer, 2 Brockenbrough, 309.
2. As to the court's instruction.
The construction of the patent was exchsively for the judge.
He construed it correctly as embracing only a curvilinea form.
It necessarily followed that, as the infringements relied on consisted only in the construction of rectilinear- forms, there was no
evidence to go to the jury of any violation of the patent, and it
was proper in him so to instruct them. Greenleaf v. Birth, 9
Peters, 292.
r. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the Distiict of Maryland. The plaintiff in error
brought his action in that court for an infringement of the exclusive right to .make, use, and sell "an improvement in cars for
the transportation of coal," &c., granted to him by letters-patent
bearing date on the 26th day of June, 1847; and, the judgment
of that court being for the defendants, h6 has brought the record
here by this writ of error.
It appears, by the. bill of exceptions, that the letters-patent
declared on were duly issued, and that their validity was not
questioned; but the defendants denied that they had infringed
upon the exclusive right of the plaintiff.
On such a trial, two questions arise. The first is, what is the
thing patented; the second, has that thing been constructed,
used, or sold by the defendants.
-The first is a question of law, to be deleimined. by the court,
construing the lettels-patent, and the desciption of the invention and specification of claim annexed to them. The second
is a question of fact, to be submitted to a juy.
In this case it is alleged the court construed the specification
of claim erroneously, and thereby withdrew from the jury
questions which it was their province to decide. This renders
it necessary to examine the letters-patent, and the schedule
annexed to them, to see whether their construction by the
Circuit Court was correct.
In this, as in most patent cases, founded on alleged improvements in machines, in order to determine what is the thing
patented, it is necessary to inquire.
1. What. is the structure or device, described by the patentee,
as embodying his invention.
2. What mode of operation is introduced and employed by
this structure or device.
3. What result is attained by means of this mode of operation.

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

339

Winans v. Denraead.

4. Does the specification of claim cover the described mode
,of operation by which the result is attained.
Without going into unnecessary details, or referring to drawings, it may be stated that the structure, described by this patent,
is the body of a burden railroad car, made of sheet iron, the
upper part being cylindrical, and the lower part in the form of a
frustum of a cone, the under edge of which has a flange secured
upon it, to which flange a movable bottom is attached. This
bottom is made movable, in order to discharge the load through
the aperture left by removing it.
To understand the mode of operation introduced and employed by means of this form of the car body, it is only
n,--cessary to state, what appears on the face of the specification,
and was testified to by experts at the trial as correct, that, by
reason of the circular form of the car body, the pressure of the
load outwarcis was equal in every direction, and thus the load
supported itself in a great degree; that, by making the lower
part conical, this principle of action operated throughout the
car, with the exception of the small space to which the movable
bottom was attached; that, being conical, the lower part of the
car could be carried down below the truck, between the wheels,
thus lowering the centre of gravity of the load; that the pressure outwards upon all'parts of the circle being equal, the tensile
strength of the iron was used to a much greater degree than in
a car of a square form; and, finally, that this form of the lower
part of the car facilitated the complete discharge of the load
through the aperture, when the bottom was removed.
It thu appears that, by means of this change of form, the
patentee has introduced a mode of operation not before employed in burden cars, that is to say, nearly equal pressure in
all directions by the entire load, save that small part which rests
on the movable bottom; the effects of which are, that the load,
in a great degree, supports itself, and the tensile strength of the
iron is used, while at the same time, by reason of the same form,
the centre of gravity of the load is depressed, and its discharge
facilitated.
The practical Yesult attained by this mode of operation is correctly described by the patentee; for the uncontradicted evidence
at the trial showed that he had not exaggerated the practical
advantage of his invention. The specification states:
"The transportation of coal, and all other heavy articles ir
lumps, has been attended with great injury to the cars, requiring
the bodies to be constructed with great strength to resist the
outward pressure on the sides, as well as the vertical pressure
on the bottom, due not only to the weight of the mass, but the
mobility of the lumps among each other tending to 'pack, as

SUPREME COTTRT.
Winans v. Denmead.

it is technically termed. Experience has shown that cars, on
the old mode of construction, cannot be :made to carry a load
greater than its own weight; but, by my improvement, I am
enabled to make cars of greater durability than those heretofore
made, which will transport double their own weight of coal," &c.
Having thus ascertained what is the structure described, the
mode of operation it embodies, and the practical result attained,
the next inquiry is, does the specification of claim cover this
mode of operation, by which this result is affected ?
It was upon this question the case turned at the trial in the
Circuit Court.
The testimony showed that the defendants had made cars
similar to the plaintiff's, except that the form was octagonal
instead of circular. There was evid(ence tending to prove that,
considered in reference to the practical uses of such a car,
the octagonal car was substantially the same as the circular.
Amongst other witnesses upon this point was James Miliholland, who was called by the defendants. He testified.
"That the advantage of a reduced bottom of the car was
obtained, whether the car was conical or octagonal; that the
strengthening of the bottom, due to the adoption of a conical
form, was the same when the octagonal form was adopted, or
the circular. That the circular form was the best to resist the
pressure, as, for instance, in a steam boiler, and an octagonal
one better than the square form; that the octagonal car was not
better than the conical car; that, for practical purposes, one was
as good as the other; that a polygon of many sides would be
equivalent to a circle; that the octagon car, practically, was as
good as the conical ones; and that, substantially, the witness
saw ho difference between the two."
The district judge, who presided at the trial, ruled,
That while the patent is good f6r what [is] described therein,
a conical body, in whole or in part, supported in any of the
modes indicated for a mode of sustaining a conical body on a
carriage or truck, and drawing the same, and to those principles
which were due alone to conical vehicles, and not to rectilinear
bodies, and it being admitted that the defendants' car was entirely rectilinear, that there was no infringement of the plaintiff's
patent.
The substance of this ruling was, that the claim was limited
to the particular geometrical form mentioned in the specification; and as the defendants had not made cars in that particular
form, there could be no iffringement, even if the cars made by
the defendants attained the same result by employing, what
-was in fact, the same mode of operation as that described by
the patentee. We think this ruling was erioneous.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

341

Winans v. Denmead.

Under our law a patent cannot be granted merely for a change
of form. The act of February 21, 1793, ยง 2, so declared in express terms; and though this declaratory law was not reenacted
in the Patent Act of 1836, it is a principle which necessarily
makes part of every system of law granting patents for new
inventions. Merely to change the form of a machine is the
work of a constructor, not of an inventor; such a change cannot be deemed an invention. Nor does the plaintiff's patent
rest upon such a change. To change the form of an existing
machine, and by means of such change to introduce and employ other mechanical principles or natural powers, or, as it is
termed, a new mode of operation, and thus attain a new and
useful result, is the subject of a patent. Such is the basis on
which the plaintiff's patent rests.
Its substance is a new mode of operation, by means of which
a new result is obtained. It is this new mode of operation
which gives it the character of an invention and entitles the
inventor to a patent; and this new mode of operation is, in
view of the patent law, the thing entitled to protection. The
patentee may; and should, so frame his specification of claim as
to cover this new mode of operation which he has invented;
and the only question in this case is, whether he has done so;
or whether he has restricted his claim to one particular geometrical form.
There being evidence in the case tending to show that other
forms do in fact embody the plaintiff's mode of operation, and,
by means of it, produce the same new and useful result, the
question is, whether the patentee has limited his claim to one
out of the several forms which thus embody'his invention.
Now, while it is undoubtedly true, that the patentee may so
restrict his claim as to cover less than what he invented, or may
limit it to one particular form of machine, excluding all other
forms, though they also embody his invention, yet such an interpretation should not be put upon his claim if it can fairly be
construed otherwise, and thi for two reasons:
1. Because the reasonable presumption is, that, having a just
right to cover and protect his whole invention, he intended to do
so. Haworth v. Hardeastle, Web. P. C. 484.
2. Because specifications are to be construed liberally, in accordance with the design of the Constitution and the patent
laws of the-United States, to promote the progress of the useful arts, and allow inventors to retain to their own use, not any
thing which is matter of common right, but what they themselves have created. Grant v. Raymond, 6-Pet. 218; Ames v.
Howard, 1 Sunnn. 482, 485; Blanchard v. Sprague, 3 Id. 535,
539; Davoll v, Brown, 1 Wood. & Mlinot, 53, 57; Parker v. Ha29

*

342

SUPREME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

worth, 4 McLean's R. 372; Le Roy v. Tatham, 14 How. 181,
and opinion of Parke, Baron, there quoted; Neilson v. Henford
Web. P. C. 341; Russell v. Cowley, Id. 470; Burden v. Winislow, (decided at the present term,) 15 Hcward.
The claim of -the plaintiff is in the following words:
"What I claim as my'invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is making the body of a car for the transportation
of coal, &c., in the form of a frustum of a cone, substantially
as herein described, whereby the force exested by the weight of
the load presses equally in all directions, and does not tend to
change the-form thereof, so that every paii; resists its equal proportion, and by which, also, the lower part is so reduced as to
pass down within the truck frame and between the axles, to
ower the centre of gravity of the load without diminishing the
capacity of the car as described.
"I also claim extending the body of the car below the connecting pieces of the truck frame, and the line of draught, by
'passing the connecting bars of the truck f:ame, and the draught
bar, through the body of the -car, substantially as described."
It is generally true. when a patentee describes a machine,
and then claims it at described, that he is understood to intend
to claim, and does by law actually cover, n6t only the precise
forms he has described, but all other forz.s-which embody his
invention; it being a familiar rule that, to copy the principle
or mode of operation described, is an infringement, although
such copy should be, totally unlike the oiginal in form or proportions.
Why should not this rule be applied to this case?
It is not sufficient to distinguish this case to say, that here the
invention consists in a change of form, and the patentee has
claimed one form only.
Patentable improvements in machinery are almost always
made by changing some one or more forms of one or more
parts, and thereby intrqducing some mechanical principle or
mode of action not treviously existing in the machine, .and so
securing a new or improved result. And, .n the numerous cases
in which it has been held, that to copy the patentee's mode of
.peration was an infringement, the infringer had got forms and
proportions not described, and not in terms claimed. If it -were
not so, lio question of infringement could arise. If the machine
c-omplaired of were a copy, in form, of t:he machine described
in-the specification, of course it would be at once seen to be an
infringement. It could be nothing else. -It is only ingenious
diversities of form and proporti6n, presenting the appearance
of something unlike the thing patented, which give rise to questions; and the property of inventors would be valueless, if it

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

343

Winans v. Denmead.

were enough for the defendant to say, your improvement consisted in a change of form; you describe and claim but one
form; I have not taken that, and so have not infringed.
The answer is, my improvement did not consist in a change
of form, but in the new employment of principles or powers,
in a new mode of operation, embodied in a form by means of
which a new or better result is produced; it was this which
constituted my invention; this you have copied, changing only
the form; and that answer is justly applicable to this patent.
Undoubtedly there may be cases in which the letters-patent
do include only the particular form described and claimed.
Davis v. Palmer, 2 Brock. '09, seems to have been one of
thr(ce cases. But they are in entire accordance -with what is
':oove stated.
The reason why such a patent covers only one geometrical
form, is not that the patentee has described and claimed that
form only; it is because that form only is capable of embodying his invention; and, consequently, if the f6rm is not copied,
the invention is not used.
Where form and substance are inseparable, it is enough to
look at the form only. Where they are separable; where the
whole substance of the invention may be copied in a different
form, it is the duty of courts and juries to look through the
form for the substance of the invention -for that which entitled the inventor to his patent, and which the patent was designed to secure; where that is found, there is an infringement;
and it is not a defence, that it is embodied in a form not described, and in terms claimed by the patentee.
Patentees sometimes add to their claims an express declaration, to the effect that the claim extends to the thing patented,
however its form or proportions may be varied. But this is un-'
necessary. The law so interprets the claim without the addition of these words. - The exclusive right to the thing patented
is not secured, if the public are at liberty to make substantial
copies of it, varying its form or proportions. And, therefore,
the patentee, having described his invention, and shown its
principles, and claimed it in that form which most perfectly embodies it, is, in contemplation of law, deemed to claim every
form in which his invention may be copied, unless he manifcsts
an intention to disclaim some of those forms.
Indeed it is difficult to perceive how any other rule could
be applied, practicably, to cases like this. How is a question of
infringement of this patent to be tried? 'It.may safely be assumed, that neither the patentee nor any other constructer has
made, or will make, a car exactly circular. In practice, deviations from a true circle will always occur. How near to a

SUPREME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

circle, then, must a car be, in order to infringe ? N'Iay it be
slightly elliptical, or otherwise depart from a true circle, and, if
so, how far?
In our judgment, the only answer that can be given to these
questions is, that it must be so near to a true circle as substantially to embody the patentee's mode of operation, and thereby
attain the same kind of result as was reached by his invention.
It is not necessary that the defendant's cars should employ the
plaintiff's invention to as good advantage as he employed it, o
that the result should be precisely the same in degree. It must
be the same in kind, and effected by the employment of his
mode of operation in substance. Whether, in point of fact, the
defeffdants cars did copy the plaintiff's iavention, in the sense
above explained, is a question for the jury, and the court b.elow
erred in not leaving that question to them upon the evidence in
the case, which tended to prove the affirmative.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, M. Justice CATRON, Mr. Jus-tice DANIEL, and M. Justice CAMPBELL, dissented.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case.
The plaintiff claims to have designed and constructed a car
for the transportation of coal on railroads which shall carry the
heaviest load, in proportion to its own weight. His design consists in the adoption of the "conical form"
โขfor the body of the car," "whereby the weight of the load
presses equally in.all directions;" does no-; "tend to change the
form of the car; I"permits it "to extend dcwn within the truck,"
lowering "the centre of gravity of the load," and by its reduced
size at ยฑhe bottom adding to its strength and durability. He
claims as his invention, and it is the -whole of the change which
he has made in the manufacture of cars, "the making of the
body of the car in th&form of the frustum of a cone."
It is agreed that a circle contains a greater a~ea than any
figure of the same perimeter; that the conical form is best suited
to resist~pressure from within; and that the reduced size at the
bottom of the car is favorable to its strength. The introduction
of the cars of the plaintiff, upon the railroad, for the transportation of coal, was attended by a great increase of the loads in
proportion to the weight of the car. The merits of the design
are frankly conceded. Nevertheless, it is notorious, that there
does exist a very great variety of vessels in common domestic
use "of a conical form," or, "of the form of the frustum of a
cone," for.the reception and transportation of articles of prime

DECEMBER TERM, 1.853.

345

Winans v. Denmead.

necessity and constant demand, such as water, coal, food, clothing, &c. It is also true that the properties of the circle, and of'
circular forms alluded to in the patent of the plaintiff, are understood, and appreciated, and have been applied in every department of mechanic art. One cannot doubt that a requisition
from the transportation companies for cars of a diminished
weight, and an increased capacity, upon the machinists and
engineers connected with the business, would have been answered promptly by a suggestion of a change in the form of
the car. The merit of the plaintiff seems to consist in the
perfection of his design, and his clear statement of the scientific pinciple it contains.
There arises in my mind a strong if not insuperable objectipn
to the admission of the claim, in the patent for "the conical
form," 'or the form of the frustum of a cone," as an invention.
Or that any machinist or engineer can appropriate by patent a
forn whose properties are universally understood, and which is
in very common use, in consequence of those properties, for purposes strictly analogous. The authority of adjudged cases seems
to me strongly opposed to the claim. Hotchkiss v. Greenwood,
11 How. 249; Losh v. Hague, Web. Pat. Cas. 207; Winan v.
Prcvidence Railroad Company, 2 Story, 412; 2 Id. 190; 2 Car,
& Kir. 1022; 3 W. H. & Gord. 427.
Conceding, however, that the invention was patentable, and
this seems to have been conceded in the Circuit Court, the inquiry is, what is the extent of the claim? The plaintiff professes
to have made an improvement in the form of a vehicle, vhich has
been a long time in use, and exists in a variety of forms. He
professes to have discovered the precise form most fitted for the
objects in view.. He describes this form, as the matter of his
invention, and the principle he develops applies to no other
form. For this he claims his patent. We are authorized to
conclude, that his precise and definite specification and claim
were designed to ascertain exactly the limits of his invention.
Davis v. Palmer, 2 Brock. 298.
The car of the defendants is of an octagonal form, with an
octagonal pyramidical base. There was no contradiction, in
the evidence given at the trial, in reference to its description,
nor as to the substantial effects of its use and operation. In
the size, thickness of the metal employed in its construction,
weight, and substantial and profitable results, the one car does
not materially vary from the other. The difference consists in
the form, and in that, it is visible and palpable.
The Circuit Court, acting upon these facts, of which there
was no dispute, instructed the jury that an infringement of the
plaintiff's patent had not taken place. I do not'find the ques-

346

SUPREME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

Lion before the court a compound question of law and fact.
The facts were all ascertained, and upon no construction of
those facts was the plaintiff, in my opinion, entitled to a judgment.
In theory, the plaintiff's car is superior to all others. His car
displays the qualities which his specification distinguishes. The
equal pressure .of -the load in all directions ; the tendency to
preserve the form, notwithstanding the pressure of the load; the
absence of the cross strain; the lowering of the centre of thrgravity of the load, - are advantages which it possesses in a superior degree to that of the defendants'. Yet the experts say
that there is no appreciable difference in the substantial results
affbrded by the two.
The cause for this must be looked for in a source extrinsic to
the mere form of the vehicles. Nor is it difficult to detect the
cause for this identity in the results in such a source.
The coarse, heavy, cumbrous operations of coal transportati on
do not admit of the manufacture of cars upon nice mathem a.tical formulas, nor can th6 loads be adjusted with much reference to exactness. There is a liability to violent percussion s
and extraordinary strains, which must be provided for by arn
excess in the weight and thickness of the material used. Then,
unless the difference in the weight -of the load is great, there
will be no correspondent difference in th&receipts of the transportation companies.
The patentee, not exaggerating the theorefical superiority of
the form of his car) overlooked those facts which reduced its
practical value to the level of cars of a form widely variant
from his own. The object of this suit is to repair that defect
of observation. It is, that this-court shall extend, by construction, the scope and operation of his patent, to embrace every
form which in practice will yield a result substantially equal or
appr6ximate to his own.
In the instruction asked for by the plaintiff, "form and cirCumstances" are teated as more or less immaterial, but the
verdict is claimed if the defendants have constructed cars
"which, substantially on the same principle and in the same
mode of operation, accomplish the same result."
. The principle stated in the patent applies only to circular
forms.
The modes of operation in coal transportation have experienced no change from the skill of the plaintiff, except by the
change from the rectilineal figare to the circular.
The defendant adheres to the rectilinEal form. The result
accomplished by the .use of the two cars i: the same - a more
economical transportation of coal. This result it is that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

847

Winans v. Denmead.

plaintiff desires to appropriate, but this cannot be permitted.
Curtis on Patents, ยง 4, 26, 27, 86, 87, 88; 2 Story, 408, 411.
In the case of Aiken v. Bemis, 3 Wood. & A. 349, the lear.ed
judge said, "When a p tentee chooses to cover with his patent
the material of which a part of his machine is composed, he
entirely endangers his right to prosecute when a different and
inferior material is employed, and one which he himself, after
repeated experiment, had rejected."
The plaintiff confines his claim to the use of the conical form,
and excludes from his specification any allusion to any other.
He must have done so advisedly. He might have been unwilling to expose the validity of his patent,'by the assertion of a
right to any other. Can he abandon th&'ground of his patent,
and ask now, for the exclusive use of all cars which, by experiment, shall be found to yield the advantages which he anticipated for conical cars only?
The claim of to-day is, that an octagonal car is an infringement of this patent. %ill this be the limit to that claim ?.Who
can tell the bounds within which the mechanical industry of the
country may freely exert itself? What restraints does this patent impose in this branch of mechanic art?
To escape the incessant and intense competition whidh exists
in every department of industry, it is not strange that persong
should seek the cover of the patent act, for any happy effort of
contrivance or construction; nor that patents should be very
frequently employed to obstruct invention, and to deter from
legitimate operations of skill and ingenuity. This danger was
foreseen, and provided for, in the patent act. The patentee, is
obliged, by law, to describe his invention, in such full, clear, and
exact terms, that from the description, the invention may be
constructed and used. Its principle and modes of operation
must be explained; and the invention shall particularly " specify
and point" out what he claims as his invention. Fulness,
clearness, exactnessi preciseness, and particularity, in the description of the invention, its principle, and of the matter claimed
to be invented, will alone fulfil the demands of Congress or the
wants of the country. Nothing, in the administrtion of this
law, will be more mischievous, more productive of oppressive
and costly litigation, of .exorbitant and unjust pretensions and
vexatious demands, more injurious to labor, than a relaxation
of these wise and salutary requisitions of the act of Congress.
In my judgment, the principles of legal interpretation, as well
language of this statute
as the public interest, require, that
import.
and this
shall have its full significance
In this case the language of the patent is full, clear, and exact. The claim is particular and specific.

348

SUPREME COURT.
Walworth v. Kneeland eD al.

Neither the specification nor the claim, in my opinion, embrace the workmanship of the defendants. I therefore respectfully dissent from the judgment of the court, which implies the
contrary.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
frorni the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued. by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is no-w here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

CLINTON WALWORTH, PLAINTIFF IN ER.OR, V. JAMES KNEELAND AND HANNAH HIS WIFE, AND FRANCES CORNELIA FosTER AND WILIAm FOSTER, INFANTS, BY THEIR NEXT FRIEND,

JAMES KNEELAND.
Where a case was decided in a State court against a-paity, who was ordered to con.
* vey certain land, and he brought the case up to this court upon the ground that the
contract for the conveyance of the land was contrarr to the laws of the United
Ptates, this is not enough to give jurisdiction to this court under the 25th section
Uf the judiciary act.
The State court decided against him upon the ground that the opposite party was
innocent of all design to contravene the laws of the United States.
But even if, the Stato'court had enforced a contract, which was fraudulent and void,
the losing party has no right which he can enforce in this court, which cannot therefore take jurisdiqtion over the case.
.

THis case'was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Wisconsin, by a writ of error istsued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It -was submitted, on a printed briefby Mr. Smith, on behalf
of' the plaihfiff in error, and argued by M. Baxter, for the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the following
points.

1st. The contract in which this suit originated was made in
violation of the act of Congress, approved March 3d, 1807, en
titled "An act to prevent settlements being made on lands ceded
to the United States, until authorized by law. 2 U. S. Stat. 445.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

849

Walworth v. Kneeland et al.

The first section prohibits the occupation and cultivation of
the public lands, under the penalty of forfeiture of all the right
and claim of the occupant.
The f6urth section provides for the removal of such occupants
and their punishment by fine and imprisonment..
At the time all the contracts connected with the land in question, to which Walworth was a party, were made, there was no
preemption law of the United States in force. Every occupant
of the public lands was a trespasser and occupied in violation
of the act of 3d of larch, 1807, unless he had permission pursuant to the provisions of the second section of that act.
2d. The bond of Walworth tq Arnold, and the contract in
which it originated, were made in violation of the 4th section
of the act of Congress, of the 31st of March, 1830. U. S. Stat.
vol. 8, p. 278.
3d. These agreements respecting this land between Frisbee
and Walworth, Frisbee and Arnold, and Walworth and Arnold,
all originated in, and were part of, a combination to hinder and
prevent, at first any other person than Frisbee, and after his sale,
any other than Walworth from'purchasing the land at the public sales of the United States. There was a double combination. Walworth, Arnold, and Frisbee, combined together, and
they also combined with and became a part of the general organization of the settlers upon the public lands in the Mlilwaukie land district, to prevent any one, excepting the actual claimant under the rules of such organization, from purchasing such
lands at the public sales.
4th. Frisbee testifies that whether the title was obtained by
preemption or under the claim laws, the title to the land, according to the original contract, was to come to him; that is,
he was to purchase direct from the United States, and convey
one half to Walworth; and he (Walworth) for that one half
was to furnish money to pay for the whole, in addition to the
$100 he paid Frisbee at the time of making-the original contract. In other words, he was to give something more than the
price for which the land should be purchased of the United States.
This contract was clearly within both the spirit and the letter
of the act of 31st March, 1830, which declares all such contracts
absolutely void.
5th. The contract between Walworth and Arnold, if ever valid,
was annulled or rendered impossible to be performed by the act
of Congress, passed 18th day of June, 1838, entitled "An act to
grant a quantity of land to the Territory of Wisconsin for the
purpose of aiding to open a canal to connect the waters of Lake
Michigan with those of Rock River.
The counsel for the defendant in error moved to dismiss the
VOL. Xv.

so

350

SUPREMIE
WValworth

y..

COURT.

Kneeland et al.

case for want of jurisdiction, and on that motion and on the
argument of the case, relied on the following points:
I. Foster, the plaintiff in the court below, purchased from
Arnold the land in question, and took the assignment of the
title bond executed by Waworth, without any knowledge of,
or participation in, the illegality (if any existed) between Frisbee
and Walworth. He expended his money in the purchase and
improvement of the land, without any design to violate 6r encourage the violation of law.
He therefore contends that Walworth cannot set up the defence of illegality against him.
1. Because they are not in pari delicto.
2. Because he was able to establish his case as stated in is
bill, and claim specific performance of the contract, without relying on the illegal contract alleged by Waworth to exist between Frisbee and Walworth.
On this point the defendant in error will rely on the following
cases: Faikney v. Reynous, 4 Burr. 2070; S. C. 1 W. Blackstone's Rep. 633; Petrie ',. Hannay, 3 T. R. 418; Simpson v.
Bloss, 7 Taunt. 246; Fivaz v. Nicholls, 2 ANL G. & S. 501-52;
Eng. Com. Law Rep. 501; Bunn v. Winthrop, 1 Johns. 0. R.
337 ; Ellis v. Nimm,, Lloyd & Goold, 333; 10 Cond. Eng. C.
Rep. 533; Lewis v. Davison, 4 Mfees. &N iels. 654.
IL This court has not jurisdiction,.because the deqision of
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin- does not question the validity
of any of the statutes referred to in the assignment of errors,
nor has the plaintiff in error set up any right, title; privilege, or
exemption under said statutes or any of them.
III. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin has not misconstrued
the acts of Congress named in the assignment of errors.
On these points the defendant in error will refer to the acts
of Congress and authorities"mentioned below.
The Judiciary Act, 1 Stat. at Large, I5, L. & B.'s edition.,
An act to prevent Settlements, etc. 2 Id. 45. An act for the
relief, etc. 4 Id. 391-2. An act to grant, etc., 5 Stat. at Large,
245. An act regulating grants, etc., south of Tennessee, 2 Id.
pp. 229-30, ยงยง 2, 3, 1803. An act supplementary, etc. 2 Id.
c. 43, ยง 5, 1805. An act to authorize tie State of Tennessee, etc., 1806, c. 31, ยง 2, condition and 2d proviso, 2 Id. 3S3.
An act regulating grants of land in Michigan, 1807, c. 34, ยง 2,
p. 438, vol. 2. .An act supplemental, e'c., 1808, c. 10, ยง 1,
p. 455, vol. 2. 1808, c. 40, ยง 6, p. 480, an act concerning sales.
1808, c. 67, ยง 3, p. 503, an act supplemental, etc. Act of 1811,
c. 46, ยง 4, 1st proviso, vol. 2, p. 664, preference given to occupants. 1813, c. 20, 1p. 797, preference in sales in Illinois
tenitory, given to settlers. 1814, c. 61, ยง 4, p. 126, vol. 3, pre-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

351

Walworth v. Kneeland et al.

emption to settlers in Illinois prior to February 5, 1813. 1815,
c. 63, ยง 3, p. 218, vol. 3. 1816, c. 101, ยง 1, p. 307, vol. 3. 1816,
c. 163, ยงยง 1, 2, and pp. 330,331. 1820, c. 86, p. 573. 1826, c. 28,
vol. 4, p.'154, preemptions to settlers in Alabama, Mississippi,
and Florida. 1830, c. 208, vol. 4, p. 420. 1834, c. 54, vol. 4,
p. 678. 1838, c. 119, vol. 5, p. 251. Piatt v. Oliver and others,
2 McLean, 278; Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 410,411.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by a writ of error directed to
the Supreme Court of the State.of Wisconsin.
A bill in equity was filed in the Milwaukie District Court of
that State by Gustavus A. Foster, against Walworth, the plaintiff in error, to obtain the specific performance of a contract for
the conveyance of a certain quarter section of land described
in the bill. The contract under which, the complainant claims
is set out in the bill; and, as he alleges, was made by WalWorth
with a certain Jonathan E. Arnold; that the land in question
had at that time been surveyed by the government, but not
offered for sale; and that Arnold, in pursuance of and in execution of the agreement with Walworth, entered upon and took
possession of it, and afterwards assigned his interest* to the
complainant, who took possessioh, and still held the possession
when -his bill was filed; that Walworth had become the purchaser, pursuant to his agreement with Arnold, and obtained a
legal title from the United States; and was bound, under that
agreement and the assignment of Arnold above nentioned, to
convey the land to the complainant.
Foster died pending the suit, and the defendants in error are
his legal representatives.
Walworth, in his answer, alleges that the original contract in
relation to this land, was between him and d man by the name
of Frisbee; that Frisbee transferred his interest to Arnold, who
agreed to take his place, and fulfil his part of the agreement;
and that the contract with Arnold was made upon that condition. He admits that Arnold conveyed his interest to Foster.
He also gives in much detail the several contracts; the understanding of the respective parties at the time, as he alleges it to
have been; their acts afterwards; the object of the agreement;
and the circumstances under which he afterwards became the
purchaser of the land claimed. And he denies that there was
any valuable consideration moving from Frisbee or Arnold to
him to support the contract; and if there was, he denies the
construction given by the complainant to the agreement; and
denies, also, that his subsequent purchase from the government
was made under it. He alleges that neither Frisbee .nor Arnql4

352

SUPREME COURT.
Walworth v. 3Kneeland et al.

performed their part of the contract; and, moreover, that the
contract was void, because its object and purpose was to prevent competition for public lands, when offered at auction by
the government, and therefore against the policy of the law.
Testimony was taken on both sides; and, at the final hearing,
the court, by its decree directed Walworth to convey to the defendants in error the one half of the quarter section in question.
Walworth appealed to the Supreme Cour; of the State, where
the decree was affirmed. And this writ of error is brought to
revise that decree.
Upon looking into the proceedings in the State court, we
should be at a loss to understand how this court could be supposed to have jurisdiction upon this writ of error, over any of
the questions decided in the State court, if the printed argliment
in behalf of the plaintiffs in error had not p ointed to the one on
which he relies. For we do not see that Walworth set up any
right or title under an act of Congress; or that any of the contingencies took place at the trial which give jurisdiction to this
court under the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789.
But it appears that he claims lhe right to remove the case to
this court upon the following ground: He alleges in his answer
that, at the time of his contract with Frisbee, and also with Arnold, there was no act of Congress which authorized them to
settle on this land, or gave any right of .?re~mption to those
who had settled on them; that they were trespassers, and had
illegally combined with a large body of men of like character,
who had settled upon the public lands in that district, to prevent them from selling for more than one dollar and twenty-five
cents the acre, and to secure to each other at that price the land
they had respectively selected. And he further states, that these
settlers had adopted rules and established a land office in which
their respective claims were to be entered; and had agreed that,
if the government refused to grant the right of preemption at
the pice above named, and directed them to be sold at public
auction, the settlers would, by force and terr6r-or, as he terms
it, "by club or Lynch law"-prevent any one from bidding
against the settler for the land he had entered at their land
office; and would, by such means, enable him to buy it at the
lowest government price, that is, at 6ne doliar and twenty-five
cents an acre. And that, under the agreement between Frisbee
and himself, Frisbee was to hold possession, and have his claim
entered at the settlers' land office; and, if Congress should give
the right of pregmption at the lowest government price, he and
Frisbee or Arnold were to share in the profits, Walworth to
furnish the money to pay for it. And, if no right of preemption
was given, Walworth was to be permitted to buy, under the

