CORPORATION COMMISSION v. LOWE.

431

,Syllabus.

CORPORATION COMMISSION OF OKLAHOMA
ET AL. v. LOWE, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE TRADE
NAME OF CAPITOL HILL GIN COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 454. Argued April 29, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. One who attacks a state law under the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment must show clearly that it creates
against him the discrimination complained of. P. 438.
2. It is to be presumed that the State, in enforcing its local policies,
will conform to the requirements of federal guaranties; and doubts
on this point are to be resolved in favor of the State. Id.
3. An individual, licensed to operate cotton gins in Oklahoma, sought
to enjoin a state commission from issuing to a farmers' coperative company a license to gin cotton in his locality, claiming that
inasmuch as the cotton-ginning business is regulated by Oklahoma
as a public utility, including the rates chargeable, he wouTd be
inhibited from reducing his rates indirectly by returning any part
of his earnings to his customers, whereas the company, in virtue
of the Act under which it was incorporated, was expressly authorized
to distribute a portion of its net earnings among those who would
deal with it, whether co6perative members or not, in proportion
to their dealings, and would thus be allowed an unreasonable, discriminatory advantage in the same line of competitive business,
contrary to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Held that, as the plaintiff adduced no law or regulation cf
the State denying him the privilege of distributing net earnings
to patrons upon the basis and in a manner similar to that allowed
to the corporation, and as the counsel for the Commission stated at
the oral argument that he knew of no such law or regulation, the
statute with respect to distribution of net earnings must be regarded as a declaration that such a distribution among patrons
of cotton gins is in accord with the policy of the State, and, until
the contrary appears, it must be assumed that in giving effect to
such policy the State will not permit injurious and unreasonable

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

discrimination, leaving to the plaintiff his appropriate remedy if
discrimination should be practiced in the future. P. 437.
Reversed.

'APPEAL from a decree of the District Court permanently
enjoining the Corporation Commission from granting a
cotton-ginning license.
Messrs. S. P. Freeling and E. S. Ratliff for appellants.
Mr. Robert M. Rainey, with whom Messrs. Streeter B.
Flynn and Alger felton were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit was brought by the appellee, William Lowe,
to restrain the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma
from issuing a license to the Farmers Union Co6perative
Gin Company to construct and operate a cotton gin at
Packingtown, Oklahoma. The appellee operates a cotton
gin at Capitol Hill, Oklahoma City, under a license issued
by the Corporation Commission, and the ground of the
suit was that the issuing of a license to the Farmers Union
Co6perative Gin Company, in view of the privileges with
which that company would be able to operate under the
applicable statute of Oklahoma, would constitute an injurious invasion of the appellee's business and an unreasonable discrimination against him, thus depriving him
of his property without due process of law and denying
him the equal protection of the laws in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
The District Court, composed of three judges, entered
a final decree granting a permanent injunction against
the issuing of the license, and the defendants in the suit,
the Corporation Commission and the Farmers Union
Co6perative Gin Company, have brought this appeal.

CORPORATION COMMISSION v. LOWE.
431

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the hearing in the District Court there was an
agreed statement of facts, from which it appears that
the appellant company is a domestic corporation of Oklahoma, organized under Article XIX of Chapter 34, Compiled Statutes of Oklahoma of 1921; that the company
filed with the Corporation Commission an application for
a license to operate a cotton gin as a public utility at
Packingtown, a part of Oklahoma City; that the place
where it was proposed to locate the gin is about two and
one-half miles from appellee's gin at Capitol Hill; that
the appellee also operates a cotton gin at Wheatland, Oklahoma, about ten miles from the proposed site of the gin
of the appellant cbmpany; and that these gins of the ap.pellee ard of the appellant company would be in the
same cotton producing territory and would be in competition.. It was also agreed that the appellee had filed with
the Corpbration Commission his written protest against
the granting of the license to the appellant company;
that the Corporation Commission had heard the application and considered the objection, and that unless restrained by the court the Corporation Commission would
issue the license to the appellant company and its proposed gin would be put in operation.
The bill of complaint alleged that cotton gins are public
utilities under the law of Oklahoma and that the Corporation Commission is vested with authority to regulate
them and to fix the rates, charges, and rules to be observed in their operation. There is'no controversy upon
these points. The dispute grows out of the privileges
accorded by statute to the appellant company as a corporation formed to conduct business upon a coperative
plan. Compiled Statutes of 1921, secs. 5637-5652, as
amended in 1923. The particular statutory provision involved is found in section 5648, as follows:
"Dividends and profits-reserve fund. The directors,
subject to revisioD by the stockholders, at any general or
9S:4-8

u0-2s

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

special meeting lawfully called, shall apportion the net
earnings and profits thereof from time to time at least
once in each year in the following manner:
"(1) Not less than ten per cent thereof accruing since
the last apportionment shall be set aside in a surplus or
reserve fund until such fund shall equal at least fifty per
cent of the paid up capital stock.
"(2) Dividends at a rate not to exceed eight per cent
per annum, may, in the discretion of the directors, be
declared upon the paid up capital stock. Five per cent'
may be set aside for educational purposes.
"(3) The remainder of such net earnings and profits
shall be apportioned and paid to its members ratably
upon the amounts of the products sold to the corporation
by its members, and the amounts of the purchases of
members from the corporation: provided, that if the bylaws of the corporation shall so provide the directors may
apportion such earnings and profits in part to nonmembers upon the amounts of their purchases and sales from
or to, the corporation."
The precise contention of the appellee is that under- this
statute, if a license is granted to appellant company, it
will be able to carry on its business on more favorable
terms than are available to the appellee, since, it is said,
it "will be: compelled, although engaged in a regulated
public business as a public utility, to grant refunds and
rebates to its patron members and will have the right
and privilege of making such refunds and rebates to nonmember patrons upon the amount of their patronage."
The appellee argues that he is prohibited from making
refunds and rebates, and is compelled, in the performance
of his public duty, to charge rates fixed by the Corporation Commission, which will compel him to compete with
appellant gin company upon unequal terms."

CORPORATION COMMISSION v. LOWE.
431

Opinion of the Court.

In Frost v. Corporation Commission of Oklahoma, 278
U. S. 515, the Court concluded that one who had complied
with the statutes of Oklahoma and had obtained a permit
to operate a cotton gin, held a franchise which constituted
a property right, aid that while this right did not preclude
the State from making similar valid grants to others, it
was an exclusive right as against attempts to operate a
competing gin without a permit or under a void permit.
In this view, it was decided that a state statute which
permitted an individual to engage in such a business only
upon his first showing a public necessity, but allowed a
corporation to engage in the same business, in the same
locality, without such a showing, discriminated against
the individual in violation of the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. The appellee invokes
the principle of this decision upon the ground that in the
present case he will be subject, under the state law, to an
unjustifiable discrimination in the competition which will
ensue if a license is granted to the appellant company.
The appellants take issue with this contention. They
urge, in substance, that at best the appellee's complaint
is premature, that he has not yet suffered, and does not
know that he will suffer, any injury as a result of the
statutory provision of which he complains. But if the
appellant company, by virtue of the statute, is placed
on a more favorable basis in the conduct of its business,
by being able to hold out to its patrons the prospect of
returns which the appellee by reason of the law binding
upon him cannot offer to his patrons, it is apparent that
the injury of this discrimination may be inflicted at the
outset.
Assuming that the complaint is not premature in this
respect, and that the discrimination, if it exists under the
law, would be immediately effective, we are brought to

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the question whether the appellee is prevented by the
law of Oklahoma from offering, and actually making, a
distribution of profits to his patrons similar to that permitted by the statute in the case of the appellant company. The appellee is an individual, transacting business
as such, as his bill of complaint shows, and he is no
bound by provisions governing corporate organization.
He must conduct the business of cotton ginning in conformity with the law of the State, but he may deal with
the profit§ of that business as he sees fit, if he does not
act contrary to that law. The question is not as to the
mere economic advantage or disadvantage to an individual
owner of a cotton gin of a distribution of net earnings
upon a basis similar to that permitted by the statute in
the case of the appellant company, or of the mere disinclination of an individual owner to make such a distribution. The quesilion is whether the appellant company has
a privilege under the statute in this respect which the law
of the State.refuses to the appellee and hence the appellee
is denied the equal protection of the laws.
The statutes of Oklahoma characterize the business of
cotton ginning as. a "public business," and provide that
the Corporation Commission "shall have the same power
and authority and be charged with the duty of regulating
and controlling such cotton gins in all matters relating to
the performance of public duties and the charges therefor,
and correcting abuses and preventing unjust discrimination and extortion, as is exercised by said Commission as
to transportation and transmission companies and shall
have the same power to fix rates, rules, charges and regulations to be observed by such person or persons, or cor.poration, operating gins, and the affording of all reasonable conveniences, facilities and service as it may impose
as to transportation or transmission companies." Coin-

CORPORATION COMMISSION v. LOWE.
431

437

Opinion of the Court.

piled Statutes of Oklahoma of 1921, secs. 3712, 3715, as
amended. Under this authority, the Corporation Commission establishes rates and charges for the ginning of
seed cotton, and it is agreed that these rates are applicable
to all engaged in the cotton ginning business for the general public. There is no basis for an assumption that
there will be any difference in rates and charges as applied
to the appellee and the appellant company for similar
services.
With respect to the distribution of net earnings, the
Corporation Commission and the appellant company
have argued "that there is no law in the State of Oklahoma against rebates," and, further, that the so-called
"patronage dividend," or a ratable distribution of net
earnings to patrons upon the basis of their purchases and
sales, as contemplated by the statute in question, "is
not a rebate as embraced within any definition of the
word as heretofore used." Apart from terminology, the
important point is whether, under the law of Oklahoma,
appellee may do in his business what the appellant is permitted to do, in distributing net earnings. The appellants, both the Corporation Commission and the company,
say that he may.
The question was distinctly raised upon the oral argument of the present case before this Court. Not only
was the appellee unable to bring to our attention any
provision of the law of the State, or any regulation of the
Corporation Commission, denying to the appellee the
privilege of distributing net earnings to his patrons upon
the basis of purchases and sales in a manner similar to
that provided in the statute relating to the appellant
company, but the counsel for the Corporation Commission in response to direct inquiry stated to the Court that
he knew of no such provision of law or regulation of the

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Corporation Commission. See Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S.
554, 557, 558.
It was incumbent upon the appellee in invoking the
protection of the Fourteenth Amendment to show with
convincing clarity that the law of the State created
against him the discrimination of which he complained.
An infraction of the constitutional provision is not to be
assumed. On the contrary, it is to be presumed that the
State in enforcing its local policies will conform its requirements to the Federal guarantees. Doubts on this
point are to be resolved in favor of, and not against, the
State. Grenada County Supervisors v. Brogden, 112
U. S. 261, 269; St. Louis, Southwestern Railway Company
v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 369; Hendrick v. Maryland,
235 U. S. 610, 621; Pullman Company v. Richardson, 261
U. S. 330, 340; South Utah Mines v. Beaver County, 262
U. S. 325, 331.
In the present instance, the authority given to the appellant company by the statute with respect to the distribution of net earnings may be regarded as a declaration that such a distribution of net earnings among patrons
of cotton gins is not contrary to, but in accord with, the
policy of the State, and, until the contrary appears, the
assumption must be that in giving effect to its policy,
the State will not permit an injurious and unreasonable
discrimination. If, hereafter, in the regulation of his
business, the appellee is subject to such a discrimination
in violation of his constitutional rights, he will have his
appropriate remedy.
The decree of the District Court is reversed a~d the
cause remanded with direction to dismiss the bill of
complaint.
It is so ordered.

