SPRUNT & SON v. UNITED STATES.
245

Syllabus,

Under the established general rule a statute of limitation runs against the United States only when they assent
and upon the conditions prescribed. Here assent that
the statute might begin to run was conditioned upon the
presentation of a return duly sworn to. No officer had
power to substitute something else for the thing specified.
The return so long as it remained unverified by oath of
proper corporate officers did not meet the plain requirements. The necessity for meticulous compliance by the
taxpayer with all named conditions in order to secure the
benefit of the limitation was distinctly pointed out in
Florsheim Bros., etc. v. United States, supra.
The Board of Tax Appeals reached the proper result.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
Reversed.

ALEXANDER SPRUNT & SON, INC.,

ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 19. Argued October 31, November 1, 1929.-Decided April 14,
1930.

1. Where an order .of the Interstate Commerce Commission finding a
rate differential unduly prejudicial and preferential as to certain
shippers and prescribing a readjustment, has been acquiesced in
by the carriers affected, a shipper who is thereby deprived of an
economic advantage over competitors incident to the exercise of
the supposed right of the carriers to maintain the old differential
but none of whose own rights is violated by its elimination, has
no standing to maintain an independent suit to set the order aside
upon the ground that there was no basis for the finding. P. 254.
2. An order of that character was attacked under the Act of June 18,
1910, as amended by the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22,
1913, in a suit brought by some of the carriers, and in another
'brought by shippers who enjoyed the alleged preference, the suits
being consolidated and heard as one case. Upon dismissal of the
bills, the plaintiff carriers took no appeal and joined the other

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

281 U. S.

carriers in complying with the order by filing the new rates prescribed. Held:
(1) That the shippers could not maintain an appeal to this
Court upon the issue of undue preference, first, because they lacked
an independent standing and, second, because, through the carriers'
acquiescence, that issue had become moot. Pp. 254, 257.
(2) That the suit could not be mahiitained upon the ground that
the order, in alleged excess of thep uthority conferred by § 15 of
the Interstate Commerce Act, had iricreased certain rates without a
prior finding and hearing as to the reasonableness of the rate levels,
since the order left open any question of reasonableness and shippers aggrieved in that regard had their remedy before the Commission under §§ 13 and 15. P. 258.
3. The Commission's order in this case leaves the appellant shippers
free to demand allowances for transportation service performed by
them under contract with the carriers and which properly should be
performed by the carriers. P. 259.
4. A decree dismissing on the merits a consolidated suit which became moot after the decree was entered should, as far as concerns
the plaintiffs in one bill, who appealed, be reversed with directions
to dismiss their bill without costs, but should stand as to the plaintiffs in the other bill, who took no appeal. P. 260.
23 F. (2d) 874, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing the bills in two consolidated suits to set
aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The appellant shippers were the plaintiffs in one of the
suits. Plaintiffs in the other, who were carriers, took no
appeal.
Messrs. John W. Davis and R.
appellants.

C. Fulbright for

Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Hughes and Messrs. George C. Butte and Daniel W.
Knowlton were on the brief, for the United States and
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Albert L. Reed, with whom Messrs. Mart H. Royston and C. B. Cochran were on the brief, for Arkansas
Cotton Trade Association et al., interveners.

SPRUNT & SON v. UNITED STATES.
249

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Interstate Commerce Commission entered, on
April 4, 1927, an order directed to the railroads operating in Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas and Louisiana, which
required them to remove, in a manner prescribed, undue
prejudice and preference caused by their rates on cotton
shipped from interior points to Houston and other ports
on the Gulf of Mexico. Application of Rates on Cotton
to Gulf Ports, 100 I. C. C. 159; 123 I. C. C. 685. Two
suits, under the Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539,
as amended by Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22,
1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, were promptly brought in
the- federal court for southern Texas, to enjoin the enforcement of the order and to set it aside. The first suit
was brought by Alexander Sprunt & Son, Inc., and others
interested in cotton compresses and warehouses located
at wharves on the waterfront. The second, by the Texas
& New Orleans Railroad Company and other rail carriers. The two cases were, with the consent of the parties, ordered consolidated as a single cause with a single
record. The consolidated case was heard by three judges.
An interlocutory injunction issued. Upon final hearing,
the District Court sustained the validity of the order;
dissolved the injunction; and entered a decree dismissing
the bills. 23 F. (2d) 874.
None of the carriers appealed from the decree. Acquiescing in the decision of the District Court, and in
the order of the Commission, the railroads promptly established the prescribed rate adjustment; and it is now
in force. This appeal was taken by Alexander Sprunt
& Son, Inc., and those shippers and associations of shippers which had joined below as co-plaintiffs in the bill
filed by it. No stay of the decree pending the appeal was
granted or sought. And no railroad was made a party
to the proceedings on the appeal. At the argument, this

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Court raised the preliminary question whether there is
any substantive ground for appeal by the shippers alone.
In order to answer that question, a fuller statement is
necessary of the matter in controversy before the Commission and of the terms of the order entered by it.
From interior points in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma
and Arkansas to the several ports on the Gulf of Mexico
there were on all the railroads two schedules of rates on
cotton-the domestic or city-delivery rates and the export or ship-side rates. The latter were, prior to the entry
of the order complained of, 3 or 3.5 cents per 100 pounds
higher than the former. All rates permit concentration
and compression in transit and include free switching, to
and from the warehouses and compresses.' Complaint
was made that in applying these rates the railroads unjustly discriminated against other shippers and in favor
of Alexander Sprunt & Son, Inc., and other owners of
warehouses and compresses at the wharves, by applying
the domestic rates on shipments to their plants of cotton
intended for export or for transshipment by vessel coastwise. It was sought to justify this practice on the ground
I Cotton is usually ginned at country points and put in bales
weighing 525 pounds with a density of 11 or 12 pounds per cubic foot.
Before these bales can be dealt in on the cotton exchanges they must
commonly go through two further processes. Concentration-for
purposes of merchandising; that is, grading and assorting into lots
of quality and quantity demanded by the ultimate purchasers. Compression-for purposes of transportation; that is, reducing the size
of the bale by increasing its density, which, in order to secure favorable rail rates, must commonly be 22.5 pounds per cubic foot, and, in
order to secure favorable vessel rates, must commonly be 32 pounds
per cubic foot. The former is called standard density; the latter,
high density. Some concentration and high density compression
plants, are located at interior points. Many are located in the ports,
at places remote from the watbr-front, or the wharves. These are
called up-town plants. Since 1921, several plants have been located
at the water-front, in close proximity to the vessels by which the cotton is shipped abroad or coastwise.

SPRUNT & SON v. UNITED STATES.
249

Opinion of the Court.

that the conditions which had led to charging the higher
rate for export cotton were absent in the case of these
water-front plants.
The difference of about 3.5 cents per 100 pounds between the domestic and the export rates is approximately
equal to the cost of transporting the cotton, by dray or
by switching, from up-town concentrating and high density compressing plants in the ports to ship-side. This
difference served to equalize rates as between the up-town
plants and the interior plants. Louisiana Cotton, 46 I.
C. C. 451; Galveston Commercial Asso. v. Alabama &
Vicksburg Ry. Co., 77 I. C. C. 388. In 1921, and later,
warehouses and high density compressing plants were
located at the water-front, almost within reach of the
ship's tackle. From these plants, there was no need of
local transportation by dray or switching, to ship-side.
The lower domestic rates were accordingly applied on
cotton shipped to them, even though intended for export.
This practice gave to the water-front plants an obvious
advantage over those located up-town in the ports and
over those located in the interior. Widespread complaint
of undue prejudice and preference led the Commission
to institute upon its own motion, a general investigation
concerning the lawfulness of the practices of the carriers
in connection with the application of the city-delivery
and ship-side rates, with a view to determining, among
other things, " whether any change should be made in
existing tariff regulations or rates in order to avoid or
remove such-undue preference, if any, that results or may
result in favor of said water-front shippers or localities."2
Practically all the railroads operating in the four southwestern states were made respondents to that proceeding.
this general investigation, there was consolidated a formal
complaint, Weatherford, Crump & Co. v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co.
et al., which had been filed earlier. 100 I. C. C. 159, note 1.
2 With

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

After extended hearings, the Commission found that
the existing adjustment of rates to ports was unduly
prejudicial to the warehouses and compresses up-town
and in the interior; that it was unduly preferential of
those at the water-front; and that the rates should be
readjusted so that one rate would apply for all deliveries
within the usual switching limits of the respective ports,
except that the export rates should be made higher than
the domestic rates by an amount equal to the wharfage.
The Commission did not, at fint, specify the particular
rate adjustment to be established to accomplish the result
directed. Without inquiring into the reasonableness of
the rates, it stated that the equality of treatment might
be effected by any readjustment which would preserve,
but not increase, the carriers' revenues. 100 I. C. C. 159,
167. But upon reopening the proceeding, pursuant to
petitions therefor, the Commission prescribed specifically
what the rate adjustment should be. It found that "for
the purposes of this case, a fair and reasonable basis for
equalizing the city-delivery and ship-side'rates will be
to increase the city-delivery rates 1 cent per 100 pounds
and reduce the ship-side rates, exclusive of wharf or pier
terminal charges equivalent to 2 cents per 100 pounds, to
the basis of the increased city-delivery rates." 123
I. C. C. 685, 695.
First. The appellants contend that there is no basis
for the Commission's finding of undue prejudice and preference. We are of opinion that appellants have no standing, in their own right, to make this attack. In so far as
the order directs elimination of the rate differential previously existing, it worsened the economic position of the
appellants. It deprived them of an advantage over other
competitors of almost 3.5 cents per hundred pounds. The
enjoyment of this advantage gave them a distinct interest
in the proceeding before the Commission under § 3 of the
Interstate Commerce Act. For, their competitive advan-

SPRUNT & SON v. UNITED STATES.
249

Opinion of the Court.

tage was threatened. Having this interest, they were entitled to intervene in that administrative proceeding.
And if they did so, they became entitled under § 212 of
the Judicial Code to intervene, as of right, in any suit
"wherein is involved the validity" of the order entered
by the Commission.3 But that interest alone did not give
them the right to maintain an independent suit, to vacate
and set aside the order. Such a suit can be brought by
a shipper only where a right of his own is alleged to have
been violated by the order. And his independent right to
relief is no greater where by intervention or otherwise he
has become a party to the proceeding before the Commission or to a suit brought by a carrier. In the case at bar,
the appellants have no independent right which is violated by the order to cease and desist. They are entitled
as shippers only to reasonable service at reasonable rates
and without unjust discrimination. If such service and
rates are accorded them, they cannot complain of the
rate or practice enjoyed by their competitors or of the
retraction of a competitive advantage to which they are
not otherwise entitled. The advantage which the appellants enjoyed under the former tariff was merely an incident of, and hence was dependent upon, the right, if
any, of the carriers to maintain that tariff in force and
their continuing desire to do so.
Why the carriers filed the new rate structure now in
force is no concern of the appellants. If the carriers had
done so wholly of their own motion, obviously these shippers would have had no ground of complaint, before any
tribunal, unless the new rates were unreasonable or unjust. If they were believed by the appellants to be so,
a complaint before the Commission would be the appropriate remedy. Texas and Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene
Originally the Commerce Court Act, June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36
Stat. 542; U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 45a.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; United States v. Merchants
& Manufacturers Traffic Association, 242 U. S. 178, 188;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259
U. S. 285, 295. The appellants' position is legally no
different from what it would have been if the carriers
had filed the rates freely, pursuant to an informal suggestion of the Commission or one of its members; or if
the filing had been made by carriers voluntarily after
complaint filed before the Commission, which had never
reached a hearing, because the rate structure complained
of was thus superseded.' The carriers who were respondents before the Commission filed the new rates presumably because they now desire them. Nothing to the contrary is shown. So far as the carriers are concerned, it
is as if the new rates had been filed wholly of their own
accord and as if there had never been a controversy before
the Commission. Since the appellants' economic advantage as shippers was an incident of the supposed right
exercised by the carriers, the appellants cannot complain
after the carriers are satisfied or prefer not to press their
right, if any.
Appellants' present position resembles in all essentials
one which was put forward in Edward Hines Trustees v.
United States, 263 U. S. 143, 147, 148 and United States
v. Merchants & Manufacturers Traffic Association, 242
U. S. 178, 188. There, as here, the plaintiffs were deprived by the order of the Commission of a competitive
advantage. But the plaintiffs there, as here, were not
4 Compare Rules of Practice (Revised to December 2, 1919) IV(i);
Manufacturers' & Jobbers' Union of Mankato v. Minneapolis & St.
Louis Ry. Co., 1 I. C. C. 227; Lincoln Board of Trade v. Union Pacific Ry. Co., 2 I. C. C. 229; The Pennsylvania Co. v. Louisville, New
Albany & Chicago Ry., 3 I. C. C. 223; American Wire Nail Co. v.
Queen & Crescent Fast Freight Line, 3 I. C. C. 224; Alan Wood Iron
& Steel Co. v. Pa, R. R. Co., 24 I. C. C. 27, 33.

SPRUNT & SON v. UNITED STATES.
249

Opinion of the Court.

subjected to or threatened with any legal wrong. And,
since the carriers acquiesced in the order of the Commission, the plaintiffs could not maintain an independent
actlon to annul the order. Appellants' present position
is unlike that of the plantiffs in the cases relied upon.
United States v. Village of Hubbard, 266 U. S. 474; The
Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258; Skinner & Eddy
Corporation v. United States, 249 U. S. 557; Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42. In
each of those cases, an independent legal right of the
praintiff was affected by the order whici- it was sought to
set aside.'
Moreover, by the action of the carriers, the issue of
undue prejudice and unjust preference, which had been
passed upon by the Commission, has become moot. Compare United States v. Anchor Coal Co., 279 U. S. 812.
Most of the carriers never sought to annul the order.
Those that joined in the suit to set it aside have since voluntarily severed themselves from the shippers who object
5 Two suits were involved in the Diffenbaugh case. One was against
a carrier to recover allowances for substituted transportation facilities
alleged to be due under § 15 of the Act. The Interstate Commerce
Commission was joined and its order prohibiting the allowances sought
to be enjoined because the order would otherwise have constituted a
defense to the suit. In the other action, interested carriers intervened
as parties plaintiff and persisted in their effort to set aside the order.
In Slcinner & Eddy Corporationv. United States, the right under the
last paragraph of § 4 of the Act, not to pay increased rates except
when due to reasons other than the elimination of water competition,
was clearly the right of the shipper. In the Chicago Junction Case,
the order violated the plaintiff's right under paragraph 2 of § 5 to
equal treatment; and the plaintiff, with those similarly situated, was
the only person in interest against the order. In the Hubbard case,
the challenged order increasing rates was alleged to violate a contract
between the plaintiff and the carrier, who, it was alleged, was not subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.
982W°-3-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

to it. The fact that some carriers at one time protested
is of no significance, among other reasons, because their
protest may have been directed, not against that part of
the order which commanded an equalization of rates, but
against the particular figure at which equalization was
ordered.' There is nothing to show that any carrier is
now in sympathy with the appellants' attack on the order.
A judgment in appellants' favor would be futile. It would
not restore the appellants to the advantage previously
enjoyed. If the Commission's order is set aside, the carriers would still be free to continue to equalize the rates;
and for aught that appears would continue to do so.
Second. Appellants complain of the order also on the
ground that it authorized an increase in the local or domestic delivery rates withouf a hearing and findings as to
the reasonableness of the level of either the old or the new
rates. It is urged that'§ 15 of the Act does not authorize
the Commission to fix the rates necessary to remove undue
prejudice without such hearing and findings. But plainly appellants cannot, in their own right, be heard to complain in this suit of this part of the order. The Commission's first order left the carriers-free to choose the
method for the removal of the preference. Compare
American Express Co. v., Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 625;
United States v. Illinois Cent. R. R. Co., 263 U. S. 515,
521. If the carriers had, of their own accord, adopted the
plan later prescribed by the Commission, appellants could,
obviously, not be heard to complain of the reasonableness
of the rate adopted, except in a proceeding before the
Commission instituted under §§ 13 and 15 of the Act.
For reasons which it is unnecessary to detail, the carriers
were unable to agree upon a plan. They petitioned the
6 See 123 I. C. C. 685, 693; 23 F. (2d) 874, 876.

SPRUNT & SON v. UNITED STATES.
249

Opinion of the Court.

Commission for help. In reopening the proceedings, the
Commission notified the parties that one of the issues to
be decided was "what rates shall be established to comply with [its] findings and order." The carriers have accepted the rate fixed by the Commission. In prescribing
the rate, the Commission in no way prejudiced any preexisting rights or remedies of the appellants. Any question as to the reasonableness of the level of the rate was
expressly left open by the Commission.! It did not prescribe any rate as the minimum. If appellants are aggrieved by the level of the new rates, they still have their
remedy before the Commission under §§ 13 and 15 of the
Act,
Third. The appellants urged a further objection. In
order to avoid congestion in heavy traffic periods and undue detention of cars, shippers from uptown warehouses
customarily deliver their cotton to shipside by dray or
barge, in lieu of switching by the carriers; and they are
paid allowances by the carriers for this substituted service. The Commission's first report stated: "This finding
is not to be construed as condemning the practice of the
carriers of absorbing drayage charges in lieu of switching." 100 I. C. C. 159, 167. In its second report, the
Commission reaffirmed this position. But in response
to questions raised by the carriers, it stated that no allowances could lawfully be made with respect to what it
termed the "intraplant" movement by hand truck, overhead trolley, etc., to ship-side from warehouses and compresses on and adjacent to the wharves operated as part
The Commission said, with reference to the rate, "the . . .
finding is without prejudice to further inquiry into the reasonableness
of the above rates in connection with other cases now pending."
123 I. C. C. 685, 695.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

-281 U. S.

of such warehouses or compresses.' Appellants urge that
this prohibition is arbitrary and should be enjoined.
The question of these allowances was only incidentally
raised in the proceedings before the Commission. It
made no order with respect to them. The statements
complained of appear only in the report and are not
specifically referred to in the order. The Commission
recognized the right of shippers to allowances for substituted transportation service furnished by them. It did
not undertake to define what such services might be for
all cases. Nor did it specifically refer to the services
rendered by any of the appellants. Indeed, appellants
insist that their warehouses or compresses are not operated as part of or in conjunction with the adjacent
wharves or piers. If, under their contracts with carriers,
the appellants perform services which properly should be
performed by the carriers, the appellants are free to demand allowances therefor and to enforce their demands
by appropriate proceedings before the Commission and
in the courts. In such proceedings, specific issues will
be presented and decided.
The decree below dismissed the consolidated suit on the
merits. As the matter insofar as it relates to the bill
filed by these appellants has become moot since the decree
was entered, the decree, should be reversed, so far as it
8"

But upon cotton delivered to shipside from and by water-front

warehouses or compresses over adjacent wharves or piers operated as

a part of, or in conjunction with, such warehouses or compresses, a
different condition exists. The hand or electric trucking, or movement by overhead trolley, from the part of the water-front facility
known as the warehouse or compress to that part known as the wharf
is not a substitute for rail transportation, but is an intraplant movement just the same as the handling of cotton from the interior of an
uptown warehouse to the railroad car or dray is an intraplant
movement. No allowance may lawfully be made for these intraplant
movements." 123 I. C. C. 685, 697.

MILLER v. McLAUGHLIN.
249

Syllabus.

concerns appellants; and the District Court should be
directed to dismiss their bill without costs. See United
States v. Anchor Coal Co., 279 U. S. 812. So far as concerns the carriers-no appeal having been taken by them
-the decree entered belbw should stand.
Reversed with direction to dismiss.
The CHIEF JUSTICE did not take part in this case.

MILLER v. McLAUGHLIN, SECRETARY OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE OF NEBRASKA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 261.

Argued February 28, March 3,. 1930.-Decided April 14
1930.

Iowa and Nebraska are bounded by the middle of the main channel
of the Missouri River. The Act of Congress admitting Iowa into
the Union gave her "concurrent jurisdiction on" the river. An
Iowa statute made it lawful for any person to take fish with nets
and seines from the river, within the jurisdiction of the State, upon
procuring a license. A Nebraska statute forbade the taking of fish
with nets and seines from the waters within the State and prohibited the possession of nets and seines. This suit was brought by
a resident of Nebraska to enjoin enforcement of the Nebraska
statute. Held:
1. That the two statutes as applied to the Missouri River,
though not concurrent, are not inconsistent, each relating only
to the part of the river within the jurisdiction of the State enacting
it, and that the Nebraska prohibition is valid at least as against
residents of Nebraska. P. 263.
2. That a State may regulate or prohibit fishing within its waters,
and, for the proper enforcement of such statutes, may prohibit the
possession within its borders of the special instruments of violation.
regardless of the time of acquisition or the protestations of lawful
intentions on the part of a particular possessor. P. 264.
118 Neb. 174, affirmed.

