NILES BEMENT POND CO. v. U. S.
351

Statement of the Case.

for the absence from the leading car of the other evidences of the injury found on the other cars. As evidence
to support the special finding of the jury that the deceased was struck by the first car, this testimony is without substance. See Gulf, Mobile & Northern R. R. v.
Wells, 275 U. S. 455. If allowed to sustain the verdict
it would remove trial by jury from the realm of probability, based on evidence, to that of surmise, and
conjecture.

Reversed.
NILES BEMENT

POND COMPANY

v. UNITED

STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 314.

Argued March 7, 12, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. Findings by the Court of Claims that the controlling plan-of a
taxpayer's accounts was to show income upon an accrual basis
and that its tax returns were on that basis, are conclusive on
review. P. 360.
2. Under the Revenue Acts of 1916 and 1918, the Commissioner may
correct a return so as to reflect true income by conforming to
the dominating and controlling character of the taxpayer's system
of accounts. Id.
3. In computing the net income of a domestic corporation keeping
its books on the accrual basis, foreign taxes paid in the tax years
should not be deducted if they accrued in prior years and their
deduction in those years was necessary to ascertain true income. Id.
4. It is to be presumed that taxes paid are rightly collected upon
assessments correctly made by the Commissioner; and in a suit
to recover them the burden rests upon the taxpayer to prove all the
facts necessary to establish the illegality of the collection. P. 301.
67 Ct. Cls. 693, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 543, to review a judgment for the
United States in a suit to recover money alleged to have

been illegally collected as income and excess profits taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Mr. Karl D. Loos, with whom Messrs. E. Barrett
Prettyman and Preston B. Kavanagh were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Attorney General Mitchell,
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, Messrs. Sewall
Key and Barhain R. Gary, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, Ralph C. Williamson, Clarence M.
Charest, General Counsel, and Ottamar Hamele, Special
Attorney, Bureau of Internal Revenue, were on the brief.
for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on certiorari, 280 U. S. 543, to review
a judgment of the Court of Claims denying recovery
of a part of petitioner's income and excess profits
taxes for the year 1918, alleged to have been illegally exacted. 67 Ct. Cls. 693. Petitioner is a New
Jersey corporation having an office and principal place
of business in New York. It maintains a London branch,
through which it paid the British government in 1918
income tax for the fiscal year April 6, 1917 to April 5,
1918, upon income received from sources in Great Britain in 1916 and earlier years, and based on a tax return
made prior to 1918. Sjmilarly, it paid in 1918 a tax for
the year ending December 31, 1916, upon income and
excess profits from sources within Great Britain. In
making its tax return for the year 1918 petitioner deducted these payments from gross income. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue refused to allow the
deductions, and collected a. correspondingly increased tax,
which is the subject of the present suit.
The applicable provision of § 238 of the Revenue Law
of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, authorizes the deduction
'from the gross income of corporations, income and excess
profifs taxes " paid " to foreign countries during the taxa-

NILES BEMENT POND CO. v. U. S.
357

Opinion of the Court.

ble year. But § 200 defines the term "paid" in § 238 as
"paid or accrued" or "paid or incurred," and provides
that "paid or accrued" shall be construed according to
the method of accounting upon the basis of which the net
income is computed under "§212. Section 212 (b) requires that net taxable income shall be computed "in
accordance with the method of accounting reguarly employed in keeping the books of such taxpayer; but if no
such method of accounting has been so employed or if
the method employed does not clearly reflect the income,
the computation shall be made upon such basis and in
such manner as, in the opinion of the Commissioner does
clearly reflect the income."
Section 13 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1916, c. 463, 39

Stat. 756, in force until the Act of 1918 became effective,
provided that a corporate taxpayer "keeping accounts
upon any basis other than that of actual receipts and
disbursements, unless such other basis does not clearly
reflect its income, may, subject to regulations made by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue with the approval
of the Secretary of the Treasury,. make its return upon
the basis upon which its accounts are kept, in which case
the tax shall be computed upon its income as so returned." Treasury Decision 2433 of January 8, 1917,
interpreting this section, states: "This ruling contemplates that income and authorized deductions should be
computed and accounted for on the same basis," and Income Tax- Uuling, January-June, 1921, Cum. Bulletin
No. 4, p. 147, provides: " Section 13 (d) of the Revenue
Act of 1916 is a qualifying section and when accounts
of a corporation are kept on a basis other than that of
receipts and disbursements, it qualifies the manner of
making deductions authorized in § 12 (a) of the Act,
and the word 'paid' in the latter section is to be read
'paid or accrued,' depending on how the accounts of the
corporation are kept."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the. Court.

281 U. S.

The Court of Claims found that the books of the petitioner were kept on the accrual basis; that while there
were some'exceptions of small items, of deferred charges
and credits and the expenses of the London- office which
were entered on its books only when paid or received,
%'the principal and dominant purpose and plan of its
-accounts were to show income upon an accrual basis as
the general and controlling character of the account."
It also found that the petitioner's return for 1918 was on
.the accrual basis, as were its tax returns for 19116, 1917
and 1919.
These findings are conclusive here. Luckenbach S. S.
Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 533, 538. Under them
petitioner's liability for the tax collected'must turn on
the propriety of deducting the foreign tax payments from
income for the year 1918, when paid, in order to arrive
at the true income of the taxpayer. Under the 1916 Act
where the taxpayer's books are kept and his returns made
on the accrual basis, taxes charged on the books as they
accrue must be deducted when accrued, if true income
is thus reflected. United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S.
422. Even if not so charged, it was .competent for the
Commissioner, under the Act of 1916, as well as under
the express provisions of § 212 (b) of the Act of 1918,
to correct the taxpayer's return by deducting the payments in the year in which they accrued so as to reflect
true income by conforming to the dominating or controlling character of the taxpayer's system of accounts.
United States v. American Can Co., 280 U. S.412. See
United States v. Mitchell, 271 U. S.9, 12-13.1
1Treasury Regulations 45 (1920 Ed.) promulgated under the
Revenue Act of 1918 contained the following:
"ART. 23. Bases of computation.-(1) Approved standard methods
-of accounting will ordinarily be regarded as clearly reflecting income.
A method of accounting will not however, be regarded as clearly

NILES BEMENT POND CO. v. U. S.
357

Opinion of the Court.

The findings do not disclose whether the foreign taxes
paid in 1918 had accrued in that or in earlier years, or
whether under the petitioner's system of bookkeeping
their deduction in some earlier year was necessary in
order to ascertain true income. But the presumption is
that taxes paid are rightly collected upon assessments
correctly made by the Commissioner, and in a suit to
recover them the burden rests upon the taxpayer to prove
all the facts necessary to establish the illegality of the
collection. United States v. Anderson, supra; see United
States v. Rindskopf, 105 U. S. 418. In the absence of
findings determining the fact, it cannot be assumed in
petitioner's favor that the British taxes paid in 1918 did
not accrue earlier, or that their deduction if made in 1918,
would reflect truly the income of the taxpayer whose
books and tax return were on the accrual basis.
Petitioner argues that as its payments of foreign taxes
were charged on its books in the year when paid, as were
other expenses of the London branch, its return was made
on the basis upon which its accounts were kept and that
under § 13 (d) its tax should have been computed upon
its income as so returned, if that method reflected true
income. It is insisted that in the absence of a finding
to the contrary, this must be assumed, since the Commissioner made no readjustment of petitioner's account of
the London office expenses, except the item of foreign
taxes, and as it affirmatively appears in the findings that
returns were made and accepted on the same basis as the
reflecting income unless all items of gross income and all deductions

are treated with reasonable consistency. See section 200 of the statute
for definition of 'paid ', 'paid or accrued', and 'paid or incurred'
...in any case in which it is necessary to use an inventory, no
accounting in regard to purchases and sales will correctly reflect
income except an accrual method. See section 213 (a) of the statute."
This regulation has been continued without material change.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

1918 return, for the tax years 1919 and 1924. But this
argument likewise rests upon the assumption of facts
which arc without support in the findings; that the other
expenses of the London office for 1918 and the foreign
tax paym6nts deducted in the 1919 and 1924 returns did
not accrue in those years. If that assumption is made,
failure of the Commissioner to correct the returns in these
respects is as attributable to his error or oversight or lack
of information as to any opinion on his part as to the
propriety of the deductions in the years made.
Affirmed.
I)OHANY v. ROGERS, STATE HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER OF MICHIGAN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 33S.

Argued March 14, 1930.-Decidea April 14, 1930.

1. Decisions of the state supreme court as to the propriety of condemnati6n proceedings under the state constitution and laws,
followed in a suit brought in the federal court to enjoin like condemnation proceedings involving the same project and contract.
P. 365.
2. A state highway project included in the highway an adjacent
railroad right of way, to be acquired from the railroad in exchange
for other lands which the State was to condemn and upon which
the railroad was to be relocated. Held that 'the taking of private
land to he so exchanged is a taking for a 'public purpose. P. 365.
3. Requiring a land-owner to surrender possession in condemnation
proceedings before he is paid is not a denial of due process. so long
as payment is insured by the State. P. 366.
4. In a suit in the District Court to enjoin proceedings whereby
the State of Michigan sought to take private land in order to
exchange it with a railroad company for other land desired by
the State for highway purposes, the land-owner claimed the right
to have the proceeding brought under the Railway Condemniation Act which allows consequential damages and damages without deductidn of benefits, and that another statute, by authorizing

