138

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

a matter within the discretion of Congress. Panama
Railroad Company v. Johnson, supra. In the present instance, had the petitioner been engaged in intrastate commerce, his case still would have been within the maritime
jurisdiction of the Federal courts, and he would have been
denied the benefit of the state compensation law. See
London Guarantee & Accident Company v. Industrial
Accident Comnission, 279 U. S. 109. In these circumstances Congress dealt with the maritime employment of
longshoremen whose injuries sustained on navigable
ivaters would fall within the exclusive maritime jurisdiction, without regard to the distinction between intrastate
and interstate transportation.
It is also pointed out that in the Act of May 17, 1928
(c. 612, 45 Stat. 600), applying the provisions of the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act
to employees in the District of Columbia, a special exception was added of the case of an employee of a common
carrier by railroad when engaged in interstate or foreign
commerce or commerce solely within the District of
Columbia. The fact that a similar exception was left
out of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and was inserted in the later statute works
against, rather than for, the petitioner's contention.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. UNZEUTA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 509.

Argued March 12, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. When the United States acquires title to lands by purchase with
the consent of the legislature of the State within which they are
situated "for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards
and other needful buildings" (Const., Art. I, § 8,) the federal jurisdiction is exclusive of all state authority. P. 142.

UNITED STATES v. UNZEUTA.
138

Argument for the United States.

2. But when an area of public lands of the United States is set aside
as a military reservation and jurisdiction over it is ceded to the
United States by the State, the State may attach to the cession
conditions that are not inconsistent with the carrying out of the
purpose of the reservation, and the terms of the cession, to the
extent that they may be lawfully prescribed, determine the extent
of the federal jurisdiction. P. 142.
3. Public land of the United States in the State of Nebraska was reserved by Executive Order as a military reservation. Congress
granted to a railroad company a right of way across it to be located
subject to the approval of the Secretary of War and not to interfere with any buildings or improvements. The State thereafter
ceded to the United States its jurisdiction over the reservation, with
a proviso that the jurisdiction ceded should continue no longer'
than the United States should own and occupy the reservation and
reserving to the State jurisdiction to execute civil and criminal process within the reservation and the right to open or repair public
roads over it. Held, construing the Act of cession,
(1) That the condition as to execution of process had relation
to crimes committed outside of the reservation. P. 143.
(2) The proviso looked to the future and did not apply to the
railroad right of way existing when the cession was made. Id.
(3) The fact that the right of way was actually used by the
railroad and under a permanent grant, was not incompatible with
the maintenance of the federal jurisdiction over it, since that jurisdiction might be necessary in order to secure the benefits intended
to be derived from the reservation. P. 144.
(4) A murder committed on the right of way, within the reservation, was punishable by the United States. Pp. 140, 146.
35 F. (2d) 750, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court sustaining a plea to the jurisdiction in a prosecution for murder.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General
Luhring, and Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, and W. H. Ramsey were on the
brief, for the United States.
The Act of Congress granting the right of way was not
intended to affect the sovereignty or control of the United
States over the land embraced in the right of way.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The cession by Nebraska constituted a convention and
agreement, and the federal jurisdiction rests upon that
convention and agreement and is limited accordingly.
The interpretation of the cession by Nebraska and by
the War Department with respect to this right of way
supports the conclusion that the cession of exclusive jurisdiction covers such right of way.
The Government relied particularly on: Ft. Leavenworth Ry. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525; Chicago & Pac. Ry.
Co. v. McGlinn, 114"U. S. 542; Benson v. United States,
146 U. S. 325; Arlington Hotel v. Fant, 278 U. S. 451.
And see People v. Hillman, 246 N. Y. 467; Baker v.
State, 47 Tex. Cr. Rep. 482.
Distinguishing: Clairmont v. United States, 225 U. S.
551; Utah & Northern Ry. v. Fisher, 115 U. S. 28..
Mr. Allen G. Fisher submitted for appellee.
Appellee relied partly upon the proposition that the
railroad is a post road subject as a highway to the jurisdiction of the State, citing in this and other connections:
Cleveland, etc. R. Co. v. Franklin Canal Co., 5 Fed. Cas.
No. 2890; Atlantic, etc. Tel. Co. v. Chicago, etc. R. Co.,
2 Fed. Cas. 632; Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 34; Utah &
Northern Ry. v. Fisher, 116 U. S. 30; Buck v. Kuykendall,
295 Fed. 197; Commission v. Closson, 229 Mass. 329.
Distinguishing: Anderson v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co.,
102 Neb. 578.
•M'R.

CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The respondent was indicted for murder alleged to have
been committed on a freight car on the right of way of
the Chicago & Northwestern Railway Company on the
Fort Robinson Military Reservation in Nebraska. He
filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the United States upon

UNITED STATES v. UNZEUTA.
138

Opinion of the Court.

the ground that the right of way was within the jurisdic•tion of the State of Nebraska. The District Court sustained the plea (35 F. (2d) 750) and the Government
'brings the case here under the Criminal Appeals Act (34
Stat. 1246, U. S. C., Tit. 18, sec. 682)..
When Nebraska was admitted to the Union, the United
States retained all right and title to the unappropriated
public lands lying within the territory of Nebraska. Act
of April 19, 1864, c. 59, sec. 4, 13 Stat, 47, 48; Act of
February 9, 1867, c. 36, sec. 2, 14 Stat. 391, 392. By
Executive Order of November 14, 1876, a portion of these
lands was reserved for the Fort Robinson Military Reservation. In 1885, Congress granted the right of Way in
question to the Fremont, Elk Horn & Missouri Valley
Railroad Company, a Nebraska corporation, "across and
through the Fort Robinson Military Reservation, located
in said State of Nebraska, not to interfere with any buildings or improvements thereon, and the location thereof
to be subject to the approval of the Secretary of War."
Act of January 20, 1885. c. 26, 23 Stat. 284. In 1887,
Nebraska ceded to the United States "the jurisdiction
of the State of Nebraska in and over the military reservations known as Fort Niobrara and Fort Robinson" on the
following conditions (Laws of Nebraska, 1887, p. 628):
"Provided, That the jurisdiction hereby ceded shall
continue no longer than the United States shall own and
occupy said military reservations.
"Sec. 2. The said jurisdiction is ceded upon the express
condition that the State of Nebraska shall retain concurrent jurisdiction with the United States in and over the
said military reservations so far as that all civil process in
all cases, and such criminal or other process may. issue
under the laws or authority of the state of Nebraska
against any person or persons charged with crime or misdemeanors committed within said state, may be executed
therein in the same way and manner as if such jurisdiction

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

had not been ceded except so far as such process may
affect the real and personal property of the United States;
"Provided, That nothing in the foregoing act shall be
construed so as to prevent the opening and keeping in
repair public roads and highways across and over said
reservations."
When the United States acquires title to lands, which
are purchased by the consent of the legislature of the
State within which they are situated "for the erection of
forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards and other needful
buildings," (Const. Art. I, sec. 8) the Federal jurisdiction
is exclusive of all State authority. With reference to land
otherwise acquired, this Court said in Fort Leavenworth
Railroad Company v. Lowe, 114 U. S.525, 539, 541, that
a different rule applies, that is, that the land and the
buildings erected thereon for the il- s of the national
government will be free from any such interference and
jurisdiction of the State as would impair their effective
use for the purposes for which the property was acquired.
When, in such cases, a State cedes jurisdiction to the
United States, the State may impose conditions which
are not inconsistent with the carrying out of the purpose
of the acquisition. Fort Leavenworth Railroad Company
v. Lowe, supra; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway
Company v. McGlinn, 114 U. S. 542; Benson v. United
States, 146 U. S. 325, 330; Palmer v. Barrett, 162 U. S.
399, 403; Arlington Hotel Company v. Fant, 278" U. S.
439, 451. The terms of the cession, to th6 extent that
they may lawfully be prescribed, determine the extent of
the Federal jurisdiction.
In the present instance, mere is no question of the
status of the Fort Robinson Military Reservation. Nebraska ceded to the United States its entire jurisdiction
over the reservation save in the matter of executing
process and opening and repairing roads or highways. It
was in this view that the Federal Circuit Court decided

UNITED STATES v. UNZEUTA,
138

143

Opinion of the Court.

that, after this jurisdiction had been accepted by the
United States, it could not be recaptured by the action
of the State alone, and hence that an act of the legislature
o Nebraska, passed in 1889, seeking to amend the act
of cession was not effective, and that the statutes of the
State regulating .the sale of liquors were not in force
within the ceded territory. In re Ladd, 74 Fed. 31. The
conditions of the cession relating to the execution of
criminal process were construed as intended to save the
right to execute process within the reservation for crimes
committed outside,, that is, to prevent the reservation
from being a sanctuary for fugitive offenders.
Accepting this construction of the conditions attached
to the cession, we come to the question whether the jursdiction over the reservation covered the right of way
which Congress had granted to the railroad company.
There was no express exception of jurisdiction over this
right of way, and it can not be said that there was any
necessary implicat'on creating such an exception. The
proviso that the jurisdiction ceded should continue no
longer than the United States shall own and occupy the
reservation had reference to the future and cannot be
regarded as limiting the cession of the entire reservation
as it was known and described. As the right of way to
be located with the approval of the Secretary of War
ran across the reservation, it would appear to be impracticable for the State to attempt to police it, and the Federal jurisdiction may be considered to be essential to the
appropriate enjoyment of the reservation for the purposes
to which it was devoted. There is no adequate ground
for cutting down the grant by construction.
In 1911, a controversy arose with respect to fencing
the right of way. The Secretary of War forbade the fencing and, in his communication to the railway company,
said: "The State, by Act of March 29, 1887, ceded exclusive jurisdiction over this reservation, subject to the

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

usual reservations for service of process, and no statute
of the State requiring railways to fence their rights of
way can be regarded as operative within the reservation
of Fort Robinson. Your right of way across the reservation. divides it into two nearly equal parts. To place
fences thereon would very greatly restrict the use of the
reservation for drill and maneuver purposes, and, even
though you should put in numerous passage-ways,
would cause great inconvenience to the troops there
stationed. . . . By reason of the foregoing considerations, I am constrained to inform you that the Government will not permit the erection of fences along the
right of way of your company within the Fort Robinson
military reservation, and you are hereby notified to remove all such fences heretofore erected by your company." The Supreme Court of Nebraska in the case of
Anderson v. Chicago & Northwestern,Railway Company,
102 Neb. 578, held that this refusal of the Secretary of
War to permit the erection of fences along the right of
way constituted a defense to an action against the railway company for the killing of cattle, although a statute
of the State, if it had governed the case, would have made
the company liable because of the failure to enclose its
tracks.
The mere fact that the portion of the reservation in
question is actually used as a railroad right of way is not
controlling on the question of jurisdiction. Rights of way
for various purposes, such as for railroads, ditches, pipe
lines, telegraph and telephone lines across Federal reservations, may be entirely compatible with exclusive jurisdiction ceded to the United States. In Benson v. United
States, supra, the jurisdiction of the Federal court was
sustained with respect to an indictment for murder committed on a portion of the Fort Leavenworth Military
Reservation in Kansas which was used for farming purposes. In Arlington Hotel Company v. Fant, supra, the

UNITED STATES v. UNZEUTA.
Opinion of the Court.

138

jurisdiction of the United States was upheld as to the
.portion of the reservation there in question which had
been leased for use as a hotel. While the grant of the
right of way to the railroad company contemplated a
permanent use, this does not alter the fact that the maintenance of the jurisdiction of the United States over the
right of way, as being within the reservation, might be
necessary in order to secure the benefits intended to be
derived from the reservation.
We do not consider the decisions cited by the District
Court as requiring a different view. In the case of Utah
& Northern Railway v. Fisher, 116 U. S. 28, there was
involved the right of the Territory of Idaho to tax the
land and other property of the railroad which the company contended were within an Indian reservation and
therefore not taxable. The company argued that the Indian reservation was excluded from the limits of the Territory by the Act of Congress creating the Territory and
also by a treaty with the Indians. The Court held that
neither position could be sustained. It appeared that no
treaty with the Indians was in existence at the time
Congress created the Territory. The subsequent treaty
did not require that the reservation should be excluded
from the jurisdiction of the Territory when the exercise
of hat jurisdiction would not defeat the stipulations of
the treaty for the protection of the Indians, and the Court
found that the just rights of the Indians would not be
impaired by the taxation of the railroad property. It
also appeared that the Indians for a pecuniary consideration had ceded to the United States their title to so much
of the reservation as might be needed for the uses of the
railroad and that this strip of land was relinquished by
Congress to the company. The Court decided that in
these circumstances and by force of the cession the land
was withdrawn from the reservation. In Clairmont v.
United States, 225 U. S. 551, the Court held that one who
.)8234o----1o

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

had liquor in his possession on a railroad train running
on a right of way through the Flathead Indian Reservation in Montana was not guilty of the offense of introducing liquor into the " Indian country." By agreement
between the Indians and the United States, the Indians
had surrendered all their "right, title and interest," the
land had been freed from the Indian right of occupancy,
and the Indian title had thus been entirely extinguished.
The land could not be considered " Indian. country."
We conclude that the District Court erred in sustaining
the plea.
Judgment reversed.
OHIO OIL COMPANY v. CONWAY, SUPERVISOR
OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS OF LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOIH THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 440.

Argued March 4, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. A Louisiana severance tax on crude petroleum at specific rates per
barrel, the rates varying in accordance with a classification of the
oils based on the Baumn Scale of Gravity, held consistent with Art.
X, § 21 of the Louisiana Constitution, which provides that such natural resources "may be classified for the purpose of taxation and
such taxes predicated upon either the quantity or the value of the
product at the time and place where it was severed." P. 158.
2. The Fourteenth Amendment imposes no iron rule of equality prohibiting the flexibility and variety appropriate to schemes of state
taxation. P. 159.
3. A State may impose different specific taxes on different products
and in so doing is not required to make close distinctions or to maintain a precise, scientific uniformity wilh reference to composition,
use, or value. It may classify broadly the subjects of taxation if it
does so on a rational basis, avoiding classification that is palpably
arbitrary. P. 159.
4. In laying a graduated specific severance tax per barrel on oils
sold primarily for their gasoline content, resort to Baum6 gravity

