OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

harmful liquid into her ears thereby causing her pain, suffering and some injury in and about her ears. It was not
necessary for the trial court in passing upon the motion
to determine, and we need not consider, whether under
the rules laid down in the decisions of this court the evidence was sufficient to warrant a finding that the perforation of either eardrum or permanent deafness resulted
from defendant's treatment.
Defendant seeks reversal on a number of grounds that
were not mentioned in his petition for the writ. But this
court is not called on to consider any question not raised
by the petition. Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co., 264 U. 'S.
463, 464.
Judgment affirmed.
STATEN ISLAND RAPID TRANSIT RAILWAY
COMPANY v. PHOENIX INDEMNITY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 307.

Argued March 7, 1930.-Decided March 17, 1930.

Under the Workmen's Compensation Law of New York, § 15, subdivisions 8 and 9, when an employee, in the course of his employment,
suffers an injury causing death, and there are no persons entitled
to compensation from the employer, the employer or his insurer
shall be required by award to make payments of $500 each to the
state treasurer for two special funds, which are used in furnishing
additional compensation and vocational training to certain classes
of disabled employees (see Sheehan Co. v. Shuler, 265 U. S. 371).
These provisions are applicable where the death was due to the act
of a stranger to the employment and the right of the employee's
dependent to compensation under the Compensation Law was
waived by collection oi an equal or greater sum through settlement
)f an action for negligence in causing the death, brought by the
decedent's personal representative, on behalf of the dependent,
under § 130 of the Decedent's Estate Law. In such case, by § 29
of the Compensation Law, as amended, an insurer who has paid the

STATEN ISLAND RY. v. PHOENIX CO.
98

.

99

Statement of the Case.

awards under § 15, subdivisions 8 and 9, may obtain reimbursement,
in an action against the alleged wrong-doer, in which action, however, the latter is at liberty to. contest both his own liability in the
negligence action and the validity of the awards as against the
insurer. Held:
1. That in subjecting one who has made restitution under the
wrongful death statute to this added liability of indemnifying the
employer's insurer for payments to the specil funds, § 29 does not
violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 106 et seq.
2. A State does not exhatist its power to compel redress for a
wrongful death by providing for recovery of the loss sustained
by the dependents, or next of kin of the decedent; it may exact
penalties in addition. P. 106.
3. The mode in which penalties shall be enforced and the
disposition of the amounts collected are matters of legislative
discretion. P. 107.
4. In this instance, thQre is no reason why the State may not.
penalize the wrong-doer by compelling him to indemnify the
employer and his insurance carrier for payments properly required
of them and made to the State, the liability for such payments
having arisen from the wrongful act. P. 107.
5. Inmsmuch as the provisions for the creation and application
of the special funds, and for requiring the payments by employers
and their insurance carriers to maintain.them, have been sustained
as an appropriate and constitutional part of the plan of the Workmen's Compensation Law, (Sheehan Co. v. Shuler, 265 U. S. 371,)
an insurer thus compelled to piy because of a death caused by
wrongful act is not a stranger to that act and his indemnification
by the wrong-doer is a natural and reasonable requirement in
consequence of that act. P. 107.
6. Section 29 does not deny equal protection of the laws, since
it operates uniformly against all wrongdoers in like circumstances,
i. e., whenever awards, as required by § 15, subdivisions 8 and 9,
have been made against the employer, or his insurer, and have been
paid to the state treasurer. P. 108.
251 N. Y. 127, affirmed.
tAPPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, entered on remittitur from the Court of Appeals.
The case was an action by the Indemnity Company under § 29 of the Workmen's Compensation Law, begun in

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellant.

281 U.S.

the Supreme Court by the filing of an agreed statement of
facts, and submitted to the Appellate Division of that
Court. The judgment of the Appellate Division, 244
App. Div. 346, was in favor of the plaintiff qnd was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
Mr. Frederick H. Wood for appellant.
This case presents none of those considerations by reason of which the workmen's compensation laws have been
sustained; and the particular provision under review may
be sustained, if at all, only as an exercise of the power
of the State to create a new cause of action for a penalty
or damages for causing death by negligence.
The provision under review is neither an integral nor
an essential part of the Workmen's Compensation Law,
nor has it any relation to its objects and purposes.
It derives no aid from the considerations by reason of
which the validity of workmen's compensation laws have
been sustained. On the contrary, such considerations are
persuasive that such provision'is invalid. N. Y. Central
R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Arizona Employers' Lia"'
bility Cases, 250 U. S. 400. 'Sheehan Company v. Shuler,
265 U. S. 371, and N. Y. State Railways v. Shuler, 265
U.' S. 379, were decided on the authority of Mountain
Timber Company v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, in which
employers' contributions to such funds were sustained as
being in the nature of "occupation taxes." It will
scarcely be contended that indemnification of the insurance company is in the nature of an occupation tax for
those in the business of wrongfully killing others, or for
the privilege of continuing such occupation.
The provision in question constitutes a mere arbitrary
exaction, whereby the property of one person is taken for
a purely private purpose for the benefit of another, to
whom the party liable is a complete stranger and towards
whom it has committed no breach of duty.

STATEN ISLAND RY. v, PHOENIX CO.
98

Argument for Appellant.

As an attempted exercise of legislative power to create
new causes of action, the provision violates both the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Conceivably a State, in the exercise of its power to establish offenses and prescribe punishment therefor, could
declare afny person wrongfully causing the death of another to be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to fine,
to be paid to the State, in addition to being responsible
civilly to the deceased's next of kin. This, however, is not
such a statute, nor is it conceivable that the legislature
could create such a penalty to accrue to a complete
stranger, against whom the wrongdoer committed no
breach of duty.
In Pizitz Company v. Yeldell, 274 U. S. 112, the punitive damages were recoverable by the personal representative of the deceased, not by a stranger. Furthermore
in the present case, as pointed out in the dissenting opinion, the payments required to be made into the special
funds are in no true sense damages.
These occupation taxes could not have been imposed
upon the third party wrongdoer in the first instance.
Whether, in lieu thereof, the State could have provided
for the creation of special funds through the exaction of
a penalty accruing to the State in all cases of wrongful
death of a person entitled to the benefits of the Workmen's Compensation Law, it is unnecessary to consider.
The provision under review is not of this nature, and such
a provision, if valid, would obviously have to be sustained
on some ground other than the levy of an occupation or
industrial tax.
It would also appear to be clear that these payments,
being exacted as an occupation or industrial tax (the
theory on which they were sustained by this Court), cannot consistently therewith be shifted by law to the third
party wrongdoer as damages caused by him. No person

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellant.

281 U. S.

may be said to suffer damage by reason of the payment of
a lawful tax, whatever its nature, or upon whatever contingency its payment may be conditioned.
The particular employers against whom such occupation taxes were levied, in addition to being the beneficiaries of the general scheme under which in common
with all others they were relieved of the payment of all
additional compensation to be paid under subsections 8
and 9, were those who, by reason of the absence of surviving dependents, had escaped the payment of any compensation growing 'ut of the death of a person in their employ. It will also be observed that the court found that
the amount of such taxes did not exceed the average
compensation which would have been otherwise payable
and was much less than the maximum compensation for
which such employers would otherwise have been liable.
The inference is plain that if the payments exacted had
exceeded such compensation they would have been held
to be arbitrary and unreasonable. But under § 29 they
are sought to be shifted to persons who have been relieved
of no existing liability and are required to pay them in
addition to making full restitution in the shape of compensatory damages.
As for the insurance company, its obligations grew out
of its contract of insurance, under which, for a consideration, it insured the employer against all liability accruing under the Workmen's Compensation Law, including
the payment of these occupation taxes. Its liability did
not grow out of any wrongful act upon the part of the
appellant but out of such contract of insurance.
Under the interpretation placed upon the statute by the
state court, and as applied to the facts of this case, appellant's wrongful act was not even the proximate cause of
the respondent's payments. Under such interpretation,
these payments were required to be made, not because the

STATEN ISLAND RY. v. PHOENIX CO.
Opinion of the Court.

98

appellant negligently caused the death of the deceased
but because the deceased's widow collected from the appellant a sum in excess of the compensation. for which the
insurance company would otherwise have been liable.
If she had taken her full compensation, or if the amount
recovered had been less than such compensation, the respondent would have been required to pay nothing into
these special funds.
The provision under review violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because the
classification upon which it depends is arbitrary, capricious and without substantial basis. See Gulf, C. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
Mr. Jeremiah F. Connor was on the brief for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case was submitted to the state ourt upon an
agreed 'statement of facts, and presented the question of
the validity of a provision of section twenty-nine of the
Workmen's Compensation Law of New York under the
due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Joseph Perroth, -in the course of his employment by
one Anderson, was killed through the negligence of the
appellant, The Staten Island Rapid Transit Railway Company. Perroth left surviving him a dependent, his widow.
The adniinistratrix of Perroth brought an action against
the appellant to recover damages caused by his death, and
the claim was settled by the paympnt of an amount in excess of that which the dependent would have been entitled
to receive under the Workmen's Compensation Law. In
these circumstances, there being no right of recovery by
the dependent of Perroth against his employer, subdivi-

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

sions eight and nine of section fifteen of the Workmen's
Compensation Law became applicable.Subdivisions eight and nine of section fifteen, as they stood at the
lime of Perroth's death, were as follows:
§ 15. Schedule in Case of Disability. The following schedule of
compensation is hereby established:
"S. Permanent total disability after permanent partial disability.
If an employee who has previously incurred permanent partial disability through the loss of one hand, one arm, one foot, one leg, or
one eye, incurs permanent total disability through the loss of another
member or organ, he shall be paid, in addition to the compensation
for permanent partial disability provided in this section and after
the cessation of the payments for the prescribed period of weeks
special additional compensation for the remainder of his life to the
amount of sixty-six and two-thirds per centum of the average weekly
wage earned by him at the time the total permanent disability was
incurred. Such additional compensation shall be paid out of a special
fund created for such purpose in the following manner: The insurance
carrier shall pay to the state treasurer for every case of injury causing death in which there are no persons entitled to compensation the
sum of five hundred dollars. 'The state treasurer shall be the custodian of this special fund, and the commissioner shall direct the
distribution thereof.
"9. Expenses for rehabilitating injured employees. An employee,
who as a result of injury is or may be expected to be totally or partially incapacitated for a remunerative occupation and who, under the
direction of the state department of education is being rendered fit,
to engage in a remunerative occupation, shall receive additional
compensation necessary for his rehabilitation, not more than ten dollars per week of which shall be expended for maintenance. Such
expense and such of the administrative expenses of the state department of education as are properly assignable to the expense of
rehabilitating employees entitled to compensation as a result of injuries under this chapter, shall be paid out of a special fund created in
the following manner: The employer, or if insured, his insurance
carrier, 'shall pay into the vocational rehabilitation fund for every
case of injury causing death, in which .there are no persons entitled
to compensation, the sum of five hundred dollars. The state treasurer
shall be the custodian of this special fund ..

STATEN ISLAND RY. v. PHOENIX CO.
Opinion of thc Court.

98

The scheme of these provisions was the' creation of two
special funds in the hands of the state treasurer, the one
to be used in paying additional compensation to employees incurring permanent total disability after permanent partial disability; and the other, in the vocational
education of employees so injured as to need rehabilitation. These special funds were to be maintained by payments by the insurance carrier, as defined in the act,'
of five hundred dollars for each of the two funds in those
cases of injury causing death where there were no persons 6ntitled to compensation under the act, and the payments made out of these special funds for the benefit of
employees of the described classes were to be over and
above the compensation which the act -required to be
made by the respective employers of such employees.
In the present instance, the respondent, as ,the insurer
of Perroth's employer, paid to the state treasurer the
amount of two awards, of five hundred dollars each, made
jointly against Perroth's employer and the respondent
under subdivisions eight and nine of section fifteen. The
respondent then brought this suit under section twentynine of the Workmen's Compensation Law to recover this
amount from the appellant which had wrongfully caused
the death. That section provides:
"In case of the payment of an award to the state treasurer in accordance with subdivisions eight and nine of
section fifteen such payment shall operate to give to the
employer or insurance carrier liable for the award a cause
of action for the amount of such payment together with
the reasonable funeral expenses and the expense of mediThe definition is as follows: "' Insurance carrier' shall include the
stat fund, stock corporations or mutual associations with which
employers have insured, and employers permitted to pay compensation directly . .."
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of thc Court.

281 U. S.

cal treatment which shall be in addition to any cause of
action by the legal representatives of the deceased."
Two questions were submitted to the state court:
"First. Was the state treasurer entitled to the awards
made in his favor and paid by the plaintiff?
"Seeond. If the first question is answered in the affirmative, is the plaintiff entitled to recover the amount
of said awards from the defendant by reason of section
twenty-nine of the Workmen's Compensation Law?"
The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of the
State answered both questions in the affirmative, and the
judgment entered accordingly for the respondent was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals. That court decided
that the provision of section twenty-nine which was held
to justify the recovery did not violate the Fourteenth
Amendment as denying either due process of law or the
equal protection of the laws.
The due process clause is invoked on the ground that
there, is no reasonable basis for the creation of a cause
of action against the appellant, and that the statute arbitrarily takes the property of one person for the private
use and benefit of another. It is recognized that the
State may create new rights and duties and provide for
their appropriate enforcement. Recovery for an injury
causing death and employers' liability and workmen's
compensation acts are familiar illustrations. But it is
argued that the appellant committed no wrong against the
respondent, and that for the wrong against the deceased
and his widow the appellant has made full restitution.
The fact of this restitution, however, is an inadequate
basis for the conclusion sought. It can not be said that
in providing for the recovery of the loss sustained by the
dependents or next of kin of a deceased, the State has exhausted its authority to provide redress for the wrong.

STATEN ISLAND RY. v. PHOENIX CO.
98

107

Opinion of the Court.

The State may permit the recovery of punitive damages
in an action by the representatives of the deceased in
order to strike effectively at the evil to be prevented.
Pizitz v. Yeldell, 274 U. S. 112, 116. The State might
also, if it saw fit, provide for a recovery by the employer
for the loss sustained by him by reason of the wrongful
act. The wrong may also be regarded as one against the
State itself, in depriving the State of the benefit of the
life of one owing it allegiance. For this wrong the State
might impose a penalty. This is not contested. And it
is well settled that the mode in which penalties shall be
enforced, and the disposition of the amounts collected are
matters of legislative discretion. Missouri Pacific Railway Company v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512, 523.
But it is said that the legislature can not cause a liability
to accrue to a stranger against whom the wrongdoer committed no breach of duty. If, however, the State might
penalize the wrongdoer by requiring a payment to be made
by him directly to the state treasury, there would seem to
be no reason why the State can not compel the wrongdoer
to indemnify the employer, and his insurance carrier, for
payments properly required of them and made to the
State where the liability for such payments has arisen by
reason of the death caused by the wrongful act. The
State in this instance could have imposed a penalty on
the wrongdoer and turned the amount over to the employer or his insurer for their indemnity. It could accomplish the same purpose without circumlocution.
There is no question here as to the Validity of the provisions for the creation of the special funds in the hands of
the state treasurer, in order to provide additional compensation to employees in cases requiring special consideration, or as to the validity of the requirement of payment
by employers and their insurance carriers in order to maintain such funds. The constitutionality of these statutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

provisions has been sustained by this Court. R. E. Sheehan Co. v. Shuler, 265 U. S. 371; New York State Railways v. Shuler, 265 U. S. 379. These provisions were an
appropriate part of the plan of the Workmen's Compensation Law. It was not considered that the due process
clause was violated because the additional compensation,
to be made in the described classes of cases, was not paid
to the injured employees by their immediate employers
or because payment was to be made out of public funds
established for the purpose. R. E. Sheehan Co. v. Shuler,
supra. Thus, the respondent is in no proper sense a
stranger to the wrongful act of the appellant. The respondent under the law of the State insured the employer
of the deceased, and, as insurer, was required by the statute to make the payments in question to the state treasury. As these payments became obligatory because of the
death caused by appellant's wrongful act, the indemnification of the respondent was a natural and reasonable requirement in consequence of that act. In creating the
cause of action in order to obtain this indemnification,
there was no lack of due process of law, as there was none
in the means afforded by the State for enforcing the liability. In the action to enforce it the appellant could, as.
the state court has held in the present case, "avail itself
of any defense which it has or ever had. It has a right to
establish, if it can, that there could have been no recovery
in the negligence action which it settled, and may test
the validity of the awards against the insurance carrier
by any defense which the carrier could have interposed,
as it was not a party to that proceeding and is not bound
thereby".
Nor do we find any sufficient ground for the contention
that the statutory provisions in question denied the equal
protection of the laws. The classification is attacked as
arbitrary because it is said to rest on the circumstance

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
98

Syllabus.

whether or not there are persons entitled to compensation under the statute in the particular case, and that this
depends on the further circumstance whether there are
dependents and, if there are, whether they recover at
least as much as the compensation for which the act provides. But this is the classification with respect to the
requirement of the payments by the employer or his insurer for the maintenance of the special funds. That can
not be said to be an unreasonable classification, as it provides for those cases where there are no' persons entitled
to compensation under the act, and thus the immediate
employer and his insurer are relieved of the obligation to
pay compensation. And, in view of the decisions of this
Court, above clted, the validity of subdivisions eight and
nine of section fifteen of the statute, as construed by the
state court, requiring the payments by the employer and
the insured in this instance, have not been questioned. So
far as the provision of section twenty-nine is concerned,
it operates uniformly against all wrongdoers in like circumstances, that is, whenever awards as required by subdivisions eight and nine of section fifteen have been made
against the employer, or his insurer, and such awards have
been paid to the state treasurer.
Judgment affirmed.
OKLAItOMA v. TEXAS; UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
No. 6, Original.

Report submitted October 14, 1929.--Decree
entered March 17, 1930.

Final decree confirming report of the Commissioner heretofore designated to run, locate and mark the boundary between Oklahoma and
Texas along the 100th meridian; establishing the boundary as set
forth in the report and accompanying maps; discharging the Commissioner; and directing the Clerk to send to the Chief Magistrates

