OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

the Matter of Petition of Mutual Life Insurance Co., 89
N. Y. 530, 531, 533, the court held that a street grade
fixed and established by an ordinance of the city council,
duly authorized- thereto, was one "fixed and established
by law."
We find no ambiguity in the phrase "under the age
limit fixed by law" contained in the exclusion clause of
the policy; and think that, by reason of the ordinance,
liability on the part of the Company is precluded.
The judgment is
Reversed.
LINDGREN, ADMINISTRATOR, v. UNITED

STATES

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 25.

Argued October 25, 28, 1929.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. The Merchant Marine Act establishes as a modification of the
prior maritime law a rule of general application in reference to
the liability of the owners of vessels for injuries to seamen, and
supersedes all state legislation on that subject. P. 44.
2. Where a seaman in the course of his employment suffers injuries
resulting in death, but leaves no survivors designated as beneficiaries by th4 Employers' Liability Act,-made applicable in case of
the-death of a seaman by § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act,--the
administrator is not entitled to maintain an action for the recovery
of damages under the provisions of the federal Act, nor may he
resort to the death statute of a State, either to create a right of
action not given by the Merchant Marine Act, or- to establish a
measure of damages not provided by that Act. P. 47.
3. Prior to the enactment of the Merchant Marine Act, the maritime
law gave no right of recovery for the death of a seaman, although
occasioned by negligence of the owner or other members of the
crew or by unseaworthiness of the vessel. P. 47.
4. The right of action given' by the second clause of § 33 of the
Merchant Marine Act to the personal representative to recover
damages,. for and on behalf of designated beneficiaries, for the,

LINDGREN v. UNITED STATES.
38

Opinion of the Court.

death of a seaman when caused by negligence, is exclusive, and precludes a right of recovery of indemnity for the death by reason of
the unseaworthiness of the vessel, irrespective of negligence, notwithstanding that the right be predicated upon the death statute
of the State in which the injury was received. P. 48.
28 F. (2d) 725, affirmed.
CERTIoRAR, 279 U. S. 827, to review a decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed a decree of the
District Court allowing a recovery against the United
States in an action for the death of a seaman.

Messrs. D. Arthur Kelsey, pro hac vice, by special
leave of Court, and Jacob L. Moreuwitz, with whom
Messrs. L. B. Cox aid R. Arthur Jett were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor Generl Hughes,
Assistant Attorney General Farnum and Mr. J. Frank
Staley were on the briefs, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case depends upon the construction and effect of
§ 33 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920,1 which amended
§ 20 of the Seamen's Act of 1915 2 so as to provide:
"That any seaman who shall suffer personal injury in
the course of his employment may, at his election, maintain an action for damages at law, with the right of trial
by jury, and in such action all statutes of the United
States modifying or extending the common-law right or
remedy in cases of personal injury to railway employees
shall apply; and in case of the death of any seaman as
a result of any such personal injury the personal repre141 Stat. 988, c. 250; U. S. C., Tit. 46, § 688.
238 Stat. 1164, c. 153.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

sentative of such seaman may maintain an action for damages at law with the right of trial by jury, and in such
action all statutes of the United States conferring or regulating the right of action for death in the case of railway
employees shall be applicable.
By this Act, as heretofore construed by this Court, the
prior maritime law of the United States was modified by
giving to seamen injured through negligence the rights
given to railway employees by the Federal Employers'
Liability Act and its amendments, and permitting these
new and substantive rights to be asserted and enforced in
actions in personam against the employers in federal and
state courts adninistering common law remedies, or in
suits in admiralty in courts administering maritime
remedies. Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375;
Engel v. Davenport, 271 U. S. 33; Panama R. R. v.
Vasquez, 271 U. S. 557; Baltimore S. S. Co. v. Phillips,
274 U. S. 316; Pacific S. S. Co. v. Peterson, 278 U. S. 130.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act,3 which was incorporated in the Merchant Marine Act by reference, related to the liability of common carriers by railroad to their
employees in interstate and other commerce, as specified.
Sec. 1 provided that every such carrier "shall be liable in
damages" to any employee suffering injury, "or, in case
of the death of such employee, to his or her personal representative, for the benefit of the surviving widow or husband and children of such employee; and, if none, then of
such employee's parents; and, if none, then of the next of
kin dependent upon such employee, for such injury or
death resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of
any of the officers, agents, or employees of such carrier, or
by reason of any defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track,
roadbed, works, boats, wharves, or other equipment." By
3 35

Stat. 65, c. 149; U. S. C., Tit. 45, § 51.

LINDGREN v. UNITED STATES.
38

Opinion of the Court.

this section, if the injury to the employee results in death
his personal representative-while not given any right of

action in behalf of the estate-is invested, solely as trustee
for the designated survivors, with the right to recover for
their benefit such damages as will compensate them for
any pecuniary loss which they sustained by the death.
See St. Louis & Iron Mtn. Ry. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648, 656;
C. B. & Q. R. R. v. Wells-Dickey Co., 275 U. S. 161, 163.
And if the employee leaves no survivors in any of the
classes of beneficiaries alternatively designated, it necessarily follows that the personal representative can not
maintain any action to recover damages for the death,
since there is no beneficiary in whose behalf such an action
can be brought.
In 1926, Barford, a seaman employed as third mate on a
merchant vessel owned by the United States--then lying
at the port of Norfolk, Virginia, in a floating drydock of
Colonna's Shipyard, Inc., in which it was being recondi-

tioned-while working in a lifeboat swinging on the vessel's davits, was thrown on the dock by the sudden release
of one end of the lifeboat and instantly killed. Lindgren,
the administrator of his estate, proceeding under the Suits
in Admiralty Act,4 filed a libel in personam against the

United States in the Federal District Court for Eastern
Virginia to recover damages for his death.' The libel declared specifically "in a cause of tort and death by wrongful act"; alleged that Barford's death was occasioned by
negligence and wrongdoing on the part of the United
States, its officers, servants, and employees in respect to
the fastening of the lifeboat and various other matters;
and averred that the libellant, as administrator of BarStat. 525, c. 95; U. S. C., Tit. 46, c. 20.
The Shipyard was also impleaded as a co-defendant; but at the

441
5

hearing in the District Court, pursuant to a concession made by
counsel for the administrator, the libel was dismissed as against it.
This is not here in question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

ford's estate, was 6ntitled to recover, "for and on behalf
of the decedent's dependents and heirs," damages for his
death. It d'd not allege, however, that Barford left surviving him either a widow, child, or parent, or any next of
kin dependent upon him; nor that his death was caused
by unseaworthiness of the vessel.
The United States unsuccessfully excepted to the libel
on the' ground that it "failed to state a cause of action,"
and then answered on the merits, averring; inter alia, that
in any event it would not be liable to damages in excess
of the proved dependency of such dependents as Barford
might have left surviving him.
At the hearing it was not shown, that Barford left any
survivor in any of the classes designated as beneficiaries
by the Federal Employers' Liability Act; there being no
evidence that his heirs, a nephew and niece, were dependent upon him.
The District Court found that Barford's death was
caused by the negligent installation of the releasing gear
in the lifeboat, which permitted it to fall and made this
device unseaworthy; held that, although the administrator could not recover under the Merchant Marine Act,
applying the rule under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, since the surviving nephew and niece were not dependent, he was entitled to recover under the Virginia
Death Statute,' which provided that a personal representative might maintain a suit for damages on account
of the death of a person caused by the wrongful act of
another-under which dependency was not a necessary
condition and the probable earnings of the decedent might
be shown; and fixed the damages under this statute at
$5,000, for which the administrator was given a decree
against the United States.
On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
right of action given to the personal representative of a
0

Code of Virginia, § 5786, et seq.

LINDGREN v. UNITED STATES
38

Opinion of the Court.

seaman by the Merchant Marine Act for personal injury
resulting in death, was exclusive and superseded the Virginia Death Statute; and since, under the provisions of
the Federal Employers' Liability Act incorporated in the
Merchant Marine Act, there could be no recovery, reversed the decree of the District Court and dismissed the
libel. 28 F. (2d) 725.
It is clear that, as Barford left no survivors designated
as beneficiaries by the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
the administrator was not entitled to maintain an action
for the recovery of damages under the provisions of that
Act, made applicable in case of the death of a seaman by
§ 33 of the Merchant Marine Act. But while this is
not questioned by the administrator, he urges that the
right of action given the personal representative by the
Merchant Marine Act is not exclusive, and that it neither
supersedes the right of action given him by the death
statute of the State in which the injury was sustained,
nor precludes his right to recover indemnity for the death
under the old adniralty rules on the ground that the injuries were occasioned by the unseaworthiness of the vessel. These contentions can not be'sustained.
1. Prior to the adoption of the Merchant Marine Act
the general maritime law of the United States did not
authorize any recovery of damages or indemnity for the
death of a seaman, whether the injury was caused by
the negligence of the owner or other members of the crew
or the unseaworthiness of the vessel. See The Harrisburg,
119 U. S. 199; The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175; Western
Fuel Co. V. Garcia, 257 U. S. 233, 240. In this situation
it was held, in the absence of any legislation by Congress,
that where a seaman's death resulted from a inaritime tort
on -navigable waters within a State whose statutes gave
a right of action on account of death by wrongful act,.
the admiralty courts could entertain a libel in personam
for the damages sustained by those to whom such right

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

was given. Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,supra, 242; Great
Lakes Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479, 480.7 But, as said
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, such statutes "were not
a part of the general maritime law " and were recognized
only because Congress had not legislated on the subject.
By the Merchant Marine Act, however, the prior maritime law was modified by giving' to persofial representatives of seamen whose death had resulted from personal
injuries, the right to maintain an action for damages in
accordance with the provisions of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. It is plain that the Merchant Marine Act
is one of general application intended to bring about the
uniformity in the exercise of admiralty jurisdiction required bk the Constitution, and necessarily supersedes
the application of the death statutes of the several States.
This has been determined in two prior decisions of this
Court. In PanamaRailroad Co. v. Johnson, supra, 392the pioneer case in which the constitutionality and effect
of § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act were considered and
dealt with at length-in answering the assertion that the
Act departed from the constitutional requirement that it
should be coextensive with and operate uniformly in the
whole of the United States, the Court said: "The statute
extends territorially as far as Congres can make it go,
and there is nothing in it to cause it operation to be
otherwise than uniform. The national legislation respecting injuries to railway employees engaged in interstate and
foreign commerce which it adopts has a uniform operation,
and neither is nor can be deflected therefrom by local
statutes or local views of common law rules. Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 51, 55; Baltimore
& Ohio R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 378. Of course
that legislation will have a like operation as part of this
7 In each of these cases the death had occurred before the adoption
of'the Merchant Marine Act; in the Garcia case in 1916 (238); and in
the Kierejewski case in 1919 (see 280 Fed. 125, 126).

LINDGREN v. UNITED STATES.
38

Opinion of the Court.

statute." And recently we said in Northern Coal Co. v.
Strand, 278 U. S. 142, 147: "We think it necessarily follows from former decisions that by the Merchant Marine
Act-a measure of general application-Congress provided a method under which the widow of [a seaman]
might secure damages resulting from his death, and that
no state statute can provide any other or different one."
To the same effect is Patrone v. Howlett, 237 N. Y. 394,
397, in which the court said that the administrators of a
seaman killed in the course of his employment, "did not
have a remedy under the state act after the [Merchant
Marine] Act occupied the field and became a part of the
general maritime law."
These decisions are in accordance with the long settled
rule that since Congress by the Federal Employers' Liability Act took possession of the field of the employers'
liability to employees in interstate transportation by rail,
all state laws on the subject are superseded. Second Employers' Liability Cases, supra, 54; Seaboard Air Line v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 501; New York Central R. R. Co.
v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 149; Erie R. R. Co. v. Winfield,
244 U. S. 170, 172; and cases cited. In the Second Em,
ployers' Liability Cases, supra, 54, this Court said: "True,
prior to the present act the laws of the several States were
regarded as determinative of the liability of employers
engaged in interstate commerce for injuries received by
their employ6s while engaged in such commerce. But that
was because Congress, although empowered to regulate
that subject, had not acted thereon, and because the subject is one which falls within the police power of the
States in the absence of action by Congress. Sherlock v.
Ailing, 93 U. S. 99; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 473,
480, 482; Nashville, &c. Railway v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96,
99; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 146. The inaction
of Congress, however, in no wise affected its power over

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the subject. The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 581;
Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196, 215.
And now that Congress has acted, the laws of the States,
in so far as they cover the same field, are superseded, for
necessarily that which is not supreme must yield to that
which is. Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fe Railway Co. v.
Hefley, 158 U. S. 98, 104; Southern Railway Co. v. Reid,
222 U. S. 424; Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370."
In New York Central R. R. Ca. v. Winfield, supra, 150,
153, the Court furthermore held that although the Federal
Employers' Liability Act "does not require the carrier to
respond for injuries occurring where it is not chargeable
with negligence," this is "because Congress, in its discretion, acted upon the principle that compensation
should be exacted from the carrier whet e, and only where,
the injury results from negligence imputable to it "; that
the Act "is as comprehensive of injuries occurring without negligence, as to which class it impliedly excludes liability, as it is of those as to which it imposes liability "
and "is a regulation of the carriers' duty or obligation as
to both "; and that "the reasons which operate to prevent the States from dispensing with compensation where
the act requires it equally prevent them from requiring
compensation. where the act withholds or excludes it."
This was followed and approved in Erie R. R. Co. v. Winfield, supra, 172, in which the Court said that the Act
"establishes a rule or regulation which is intended to
operate uniformly in all the States, as respects interstate
commerce, and in that field it is both paramount and
exclusive."
In the light of the foregoing decisions and in accordance
with the principles therein announced we conclude that
the Merchant Marine Act-adopted by Congress in the
exercise of its paramount authority in reference to the
maritime law and incorporating in that law the pi ovisions
of the Federal Employers' Liability Act-establ'shes as

LINDGREN v. UNITED STATES.
38

Opinion of the Court.

a modification of the prior maritime law a rule of general
application in reference to the liability of the owners of
vessels for injuries to seamen extending territorially as
far as Congress can make it go; that this operates uniformly within all of the States and is as comprehensive
of those instances in which by reference to the Federal
Employers' Liability Act it excludes liability, as of those
in which liability is imposed; and that, as it covers the
entire field of liability for injuries to seamen, it is paramount and exclusive, and supersedes the operation of all
state statutes dealing with that subject.
It results that in the present case no resort can be had
to the Virginia Death Statute, either to create a right of
action not given by the Merchant Marine Act, or to establish a measure of damages not provided by that Act.
2. Nor can the libel be sustained as one to recover indemnity for Barford's death under the old maritime rules
on the ground that the injuries were occasioned, by the
unseaworthiness of the vessel. Aside from the fact that
the libel does not allege the unseaworthiness of the vessel'
and is based upon negligence alone, an insuperable objection to this suggestion is that the prior maritime law,
as herein above stated, gave no right to recover indemnity
for the death of a seaman, although occasioned by unseaworthiness of the -vessel. The statemeht ini The
Osceola, supra, 175, on which the administrator relies,
relates only to the seaman's own right to recover for personal injuries occasioned by unseaworthiness of the vessel,
and confers no right whatever- upon his personal representatives to recover indemnity for his death. Apparently for this reason the words "at his election,"-which
appear in the first clause of § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act, relating to the personal right of action of an injured
seaman, and, as held in Pacific Co. v. Peterson, supra, 139,
gave him, as alternative measures of relief. "an election
between the right under the new rule to recover compensatory damages for injuries caused by negligence, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the right under the old rules to recover indemnity for
injuries occasioned by unseaworthiness "-were omitted
from the second clause of § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act, relating to the right of the personal representative to
recover damages for the seaman's death, since there was
no right to indemnity under the prior maritime law which
'he might have elected to pursue. And, for the reasons
already stated, and in the absence of any right of election,
the right of action given the personal representative by the
second clause of § 33 to recover damages for the seaman's
death when caused by negligence, for and on behalf of
designated beneficiaries, is necessarily exclusive and precludes the right of recovery of indemnity for his death by
reason of unseaworth.iness of the ve-el, irrespective of
negligence, which cannot be eked out by resort to the
death statute of the State in which the injury was
received.
3. It is suggested in argument that if the statutes of the
several States are superseded by the Merchant Marine Act
it would follow that the Death on the High Seas Act,8
which had been previously adopted, would 1ikewise be
superseded. That Act, however, concededly has no application here, since Barford's death did not occur on the high
,seas but within the territorial limits. of the State of Virginia. We have no occasion to consider its scope and effect
here and do not determine what effect, if any, the Merchant Marine Act has upon it; and nothing stated in this
opinion is to be considered as having any reference to
those questions. Nor do we consider or determine the
effect of the Federal Employees Compensation Act," upon
which, although incidentally referred to in argument,
neither the administrator nor the United States here relies.
The decree is
Affirmed.
841 Stat. 537, c. 111, U. S. C., Tit. 46, c. 21.

939 Stat. 742, c. 458, U. S. C., Tit. 5, c. 15.

