580

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

281 U. S.

UNIVERSAL BATTERY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
VESTA BATTERY CORPORATION v. SAME.
BASSICK MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. SAME.
F. W. STEWART MANUFACTURING
TION v. SAME.

CORPORA-

GEMCO MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 127, 275, 350, 351, and 352. Argued January 21, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.
1. The construction of the terms "parts" and "accessories" adopted
in administrative regulations issued under ยง 900 of the Revenue
Acts of 1918 and 1921 (which imposed a manufacturers' excise
tax upon the sale of automobile parts and accessories), whereby
articles primarily adapted for use in motor vehicles are to be
regarded as parts or accessories of such vehicles, even though there
has been some other use of the articles for which they are not so
well adapted, is reasonable, and, having been adhered to in the
Internal Revenue Bureau for about ten years, should be upheld.
P. 583.
2. Applying that construction to sales of specific articles, it is held
that storage batteries, of a type specially suitable for use on automobiles as replacements, and not adapted to any other primary
purpose or use, and replacement parts for speedometers and bumpers, were properly regarded as parts or accessories; while storage
batteries, of a type alleged to be not primarily adapted for use on
automobiles, and gascolaters, a device alleged to be sold for general
use on various types of internal combustion engines as well as
automobiles, could not properly be regarded as parts or accessories
unless there are affirmative finding on the issue of primary adaptation. P. 584.
66 Ct. Cls. 748; 68 id. 366, reversed.
67 Ct. Cls. 275; id. 287; id. 711, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 539, 546, 547, to review judgments

of the Court of Claims sustaining excise taxes under ยง 900

UNIVERSAL BATTERY CO. v. U. S.
580

Opinion of the Court.

of the Revenue Acts of 1918 and 1921, upon the sales of
articles classed as "parts or accessories" for motor
vehicles.
Mr. George M. Morris for the Universal Battery Company and the Vesta Battery Corporation.
Mr. George M. Wilmeth for the Bassick Manufacturing Company, the F. W. Stewart Manufacturing Corporation, and the Gemco Manufacturing Company.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Youngquist, Messrs. Sewall Key and Andrew D.
Sharpe, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, and
Ralph C. Williamson were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
These are cases brought against the United States to
recover taxes paid under ยง 900 of the Revenue Acts of
1918 and 1921, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1122; c. 136, 42 Stat. 291,
upon sales of articles which the revenue officers regarded
as "parts or accessories for" motor vehicles the sale of
which is subjected to a tax by subdivisions 1 and 2 of that
section. In each case the facts were found specially and
judgment was given for the defendant. In all this Court
granted certiorari.
We pass the details relating to protests, claim to a refund and administrative denial of those claims, and come
directly to the terms of the section under which the taxes
were exacted. It provides:
"See. 900. That there shall be levied, assessed, collected
and paid upon the following articles sold or leased by the
manufacturer, producer, or importer, a tax equivalent to
the following percentages of the price for which so sold
or leased-

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

"(1) Automobile trucks and automobile wagons, (including tires, inner tubes, parts, and accessories therefor,
sold on or in connection therewith or with the sale thereof), 3 per centum;
"(2) Other automobiles and motorcycles, (including
tires, inner tubes, parts, and accessories therefor, sold on
or in connection therewith or with the sale thereof), except tractors, 5 per centum;
"(3) Tires, inner tubes, parts, or accessories, for any of
the articles enumerated in subdivision (1) or (2), sold
to any person other'than a manufacturer or producer of
any of the articles enumerated in subdivision (1) or (2),
5 per centum; "
The claimants do not manufacture or sell any of the
vehicles enumerated in subdivisions 1 and 2, but each does
manufacture and.sell the article on sales of which the challenged tax was assessed and collected. These sales were
all to persons other than a manufacturer or producer of
any of the enumerated vehicles. In each case the question

presented is whether the article sold is a "part or accessory for" such a vehicle within the meaning of subdivision 3.
Taking the three subdivisions together it is apparent
that the words "parts" and " accessories" have the same
meaning in all; that they comprehend articles having
some relation to the enumerated motor vehicles; and that
it is because of that relation that the tax is laid on their
sale.
Subdivisions 1 and 2, with the introductory provision,
contemplate that parts and accessories may be sold along
with the vehicle by the manufacturer of the latter, and
show that where this is done the tax is t.o
be paid by the
manufacturer of the vehicle. Subdivision 3, with the introductory provision, contemplates that parts and accessories may be sold separately from the vehicle by the

UNIVERSAL BATTERY CO. v. U. S.
580

Opinion of the Court.

manufacturer of the former to others than a manufac..
turer of the latter, as where the sale is for replacement purposes, and show that the tax on such a sale is to be paid
by the manufacturer of the parts and accessories. And
it is implicit in the three subdivisions, with the introductory provision, that where parts and accessories are sold
by their manufacturer to a vehicle manufacturer to bc
resold along with the vehicle by the latter, the sale by the
former is to be tax free, while the resale by the latter,
when incidental to the sale of the vehicle, is to be taxed
against the latter as already indicated.
Thus the scheme of taxation embodied in these provisions centers around the motor vehicles enumerated therein. Their sale is the principal thing that is taxed, and
the sale of parts and accessories "for" such vehicles is
taxed because the parts and accessories are within the
same field with the vehicles and used to the same ends.
The administrative regulations issued under ยง 900 uniformly have construed the term "part" in that section
as meaning any article designed or manufactured for the
special purpose of being used as,. or to replace, a com-,
ponent part of such vehicle, and which by reason of some l
characteristic is not such a commercial article as ordi-'
narily would be sold for general use, but is primarily
adapted for use as a component part of such vehicle.
The regulations also have construed the term "accessory"
as meaning any article designed to be used in connection
with such vehicle to add to its utility or ornamentation
and which is primarily, adapted for such use, whether or
not essential to the operation of the vehicle.
* This. construction of those terms has been adhered
to
in the Internal Revenue Bureau for about ten years and
it -ought not to be disturbed now unless it be plainly
wrong. We think it is rlot so, but is an admissible construction. Certainly it would be unreasonable to hold

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

that articles equally adapted to a variety of uses and
commonly put to such uses, one of which is use in motor
vehicles, must be classified as parts or accessories for such
vehicles. And it would be also unreasonable to hold that
articles can be so classified only where they are adapted
solely for use in motor vehicles and are exclusively so
used. Magone v. Wiederer, 159 U. S. 555, 559. Wb think
the view taken in the administrative regulations is reasonable and should be upheld. It is that articles primarily adapted for use in motor vehicles are to be regarded as parts or accessories of such vehicles,: even
though there has been some other use of the articles for
which they are not so well adapted.
It remains to apply that view to the cases in hand.
In No. 127 the claimant was taxed on the sale of storage batteries to divers dealers. In the petition it was
alleged that batteries of the type sold were not primarily
adapted for use in motor vehicles, but on the contrary
were, and long had been, used for various other purposes particularly named. This was a material issue; but
the court, although finding that the batteries were, and
had been for several years, used for the purposes alleged,
made no finding as to whether they were primarily
adapted for use in motor vehicles or were equally adapted
for the other uses named. There should have been a
definite finding on the matter. The other findings are
such that, in view of that omission, the judgment should
be reversed and the case remanded for complete findings
and such further proceedings as may be appropriate.
In No. 275 the articles sold were storage batteries.
There is a special finding that the batteries were of a
type specially suitable for use on automobiles as replacements and ivere not adapted to any other primary purpose or use. With this matter of fact so found the judgment should be affirmed.

UNIVERSAL BATTERY CO. v. U. S.
580

585

Opinion of the Court.

In No. 350 the tax was on sales of gascolaters, a device used on internal combustion engines to strain dirt,
water and foreign matter from the gasoline before it
reaches the carburetor. The petition alleged that gascolaters were not parts or accessories of motor vehicles but
commercial articles sold for general use and used on
various internal combustion engines other than those in
motor vehicles. This was a material issue. The findings make no definite response to it but leave the matter
where conflicting inferences may be drawn respecting it.
Because of this, the judgment should be reversed and
the case remanded for definite and complete findings
and such further proceedings as may be appropriate.
In No. 351 the articles sold were gears, flexible shafts
and flexible housings, all being replacement parts for
speedometers used on motor vehicles. It is conceded that
speedometers are accessories; but it is insisted that parts
of a speedometer cannot be such. We think they can.
The finding is that these parts were specially designed,
manufactured and sold for use on automobiles and are
not adapted to any other purpose .or use. It is not questioned that when sold they had reached such a stage of
manufacture that they were adapted for ready replacement and use; so it is not as if the process of manufacture
were not complete. A speedometer consists of distinct
and separate parts, and we perceive no reason why one
or more of these when manufactured and sold for the
purpose shown by the finding should not take the same
classification as speedometers. The judgment should be
affirmed.
In No. 352 the tax was laid on sales of bars, brackets
and fittings for use as replacement parts for bumpers on
automobiles. They were designed, manufactured and
sold for such use and were not adapted for any other. It
is said that while bumpers are accessories these parts can-

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

281 U.S.

not be so regarded. We think they are on the same plane
as the parts of speedometers just dealt with. The judgment should be affirmed.
In Nos. 127 and 350 judgments reversed and cases
remanded for further findings.
In Nos. 275, 351 and 352 judgments affirmed.
BALDWIN ET AL. V. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF
MISSOURI.

No. 417.

Argued April 23, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

A resident of Illinois, dying there, willed all her property to her
son, also a resident of that State. The will was probated in
Illinois and an inheritance tax was there laid upon all her intangible personalty, wherever situate. At the time of her. death
she owned credits for cash deposited in banks located in Missouri,
and coupon bcnds of the United States and promissory notes, all
physically within that State. Some of the notes had been executed by citizens of Missouri, and some were secured on lands
there. Held that the credits, bonds and notes were not within the
jurisdiction of Missouri for taxation purposes, and that to enforce
Missouri transfer or inheritance taxes reckoned upon their value
would violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 591.
323 Mo. 207, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri, which reversed a judgment of the 'state Circuit
Court and sustained an inheritance tax., assessed by ihe
Probate Court, which the Circuit Court, on appeal, had
found invalid.

Messrs. John F. Garner and Harry Carstarphen, for
plaintiffs in error and appellants.
A bank deposit is an'ordinary debt. Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1. Bonds and notes are not things
tangible, but are evidences of debt only. Blodgett v.

