464

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

or even probable issues that have not yet arisen. See
Willing v. Chicago Auditorium Association, 277 U. S. 274.
The controversy here was between the plaintiff and the
painters in Somerville who prevented its finishing its job.
If the case had needed to be considered on its merits, it
would have been likely to involve a discussion more or
less far 'reaching of the powers of the Union, but the
plaintiff could not impose a duty to go into that discussion when before the time for it the resistance had been
withdrawn and the job had been done.
Decree affirmed.

FEDERAL RADIO COMMISSION v. GENERAL

ELECTRIC COMPANY

-T AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 122. Argued January 17, 20, 1930.--Decided May 19, 1930.
1. This Court is a constitutional, as distinguished from a legislative,
Court, and can have no jurisdiction other than of cases and controversies falling within the classes enumerated in the judiciary article
of the Constitution; it cannot give decisions which are merely advisory, nor can it exercise or participate in the exercise of functions
which are essentially legislative or administrative. P. 469.
2. A proceeding in the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
under the Radio Act of 1927, to review an order of the Radio Commission refusing an application for the renewal of an existing license
for full time operation of a broadcasting station, is not a case or
controversy within the meaning of the judiciary article of the Constitution, but is an administrative proceeding, and the decision
therein is not reviewable by this Court. Pp. 466, 470.
3. The action of the .Court of Appeals in assessing costs against the
Commission did not alter the nature of the proceeding. P. 470.
Certiorari to 31 F. (2d) 630, dismissed.

RADIO COMM. v. GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. 465
464

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 537, to review a decision of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which reversed an order of the Radio Commission refusing an
application to renew an existing license for full time operation of a broadcasting station.

Mr. Bethuel M. Webster, Jr., Special Counsel, Federal
Radio Commission, pro hac vice, by special leave of Court,
with whom Messrs. Paul M. Segal and Louis G. Caldwell
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Charles Neave,.Stephen H. Philbin, and John
W. Guider were on the brief -for the General Electric
Company.
Messrs. Hamilton Ward, Attorney General of New York,
Henry S. Manley, Assistant Attorney General, and Claude
T. Dawes, Solicitor General, were on the brief for the
State of New York.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.

A review is sought here of a decision of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia given on an appeal
from an order of the Radio Commission.
The General Electric Company owned and was operating a broadcasting station at Schenectady, New York,
when the Radio Act of 1927 went into effect. Thereafter
it sought and obtained from the commission successive
licenses under that act for the further operation of the
station. The last license was issued' November 1, 1927,
for that calendar month and was prolonged until November 11, 1928, by successive short extensions.
98234°-30-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

January 14, 1928, the company made application for a
renewal of that license. The application was not acted
upon until October 12, 1928, and then the commission
ordered that a license be not issued with terms like those
of the existing license, but that one be issued with other
terms much less advantageous to the company and the
communities which it was serving-the chief change being
a pronounced reduction in the admissible hours of service.
The company regarded this order as a refusal of its application for a renewal of the existing license and prosecuted
an appeal, under section 16 of the act of 1927, to the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia. After a hearing
that court found from, the record returned by the commission that public convenience, interest and necessity
would be served by renewing the existing license without
change in its terms,'and on that basis held that such a
renewal should be granted and that the proceeding should
be remanded to the commission with a direction to carry
the court's decision into effect. Costs were assessed against
the commission. 31 F. (2d) 630. On the petition of the
commission certiorari was then granted by this Court.
Our jurisdiction to review the decision of the Court of
Appeals is challenged.
The act of 1927, c. 169, 44 Stat., pt. 2, 1162, was enacted
as a regulation of interstate and foreign radio communication; and it is in such activities that the company's
broadcasting station is used. The act, as amended in
1928, c. 263, 45 Stat. 373, and 1929, c. 701, 45 Stat. 1559,
directs that no broadcasting station be used in such communication except in accordance with the act and under
a licerse granted for the purpose; authorizes the Radio
Commission to grant station licenses and renewals thereof,
both for periods not exceeding three months, and otherwise gives it wide powers in administering the act; restricts the granting of station licenses and renewals to
instances "where public convenience, interest or necessity

RADIO COMM. v. GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. 467
464

Opinion of the Court.

will be served thereby "; authorizes the commission to determine the question of public convenience, interest or
necessity; declares that decisions of the commission in
all matters over which it has jurisdiction "shall be final,
subject to the right of appeal" therein given; provides
(§ 16) that any applicant for a station license or the
renewal of such a license, whose application is refused by
the commission, may appeal from such decision to the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia; directs
that the grounds of the appeal be stated and the revision
be confined to them; requires the commission, where an
appeal is taken, to transmit to the court the originals or
certified copies of all papers and evidence presented upon
the application refused, together with a copy of the commission's decision and a statement of the facts and grounds
of the decision; authorizes the court to take additional
evidence upon such terms and conditions as it may deem
proper; and provides that the court " shall hear, review
and determine the appeal upon said record and evidence,
and may alter or revise the decision appealed from and
enter such judgment as to it may seem just."
We think it plain from this resume of the pertinent
parts of the act that the' powers confided to the commission respecting the granting and renewal of station licenses
are purely administrative and that the provision for appeals to the Court of Appeals does no more than riake
that court a superior and revising agency in the same
field. The court's province under that provision is essentially the same as its province under the legislation which
up to a recent date permitted appeals to it from administrative decisions of the Comipissioner of Patents.' Indeed, the provision in the act of 1927 is patterned largely.
'Sections 59-62, Title U. S. C. The jurisdiction vested in the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia by'this legislation wap
transferred to the Court of Customs aiod Patent Appeals by the' Act
of March 2, 1929, c. 488, 45 Stat. 1475.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

after that legislation. And while a few differences are
found, there is none that is material here.
Referring to the provisions for patent appeals this
Court said in Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, 60, that
the function of the court thereunder was not that of exercising ordinary jurisdiction at law or in equity, but of
taking a step in the statutory proceeding under the patent
laws in aid of the Patent Office. And in Postum Cereal
Company v. CaliforniaFig Nut, Company, 272 U. S. 693,
698, which related to a provision for a like appeal in a
trade-mark proceeding, this Court held: "The decision of
the Court of Appeals under § 9 of the act of 1905 2 is not
a judicial judgment. It is a mere administrative decision. It is merely an instruction to the Commissioner of
Patents by a court which is made part of the machinery
of the Patent Office for administrative purposes." Another case in point is Keller v. Potomac Electric Power
Co., 261 U. S. 428, 442-444, which involved a statutory
proceeding in the courts of the District of Columbia to
revise an order of a commission fixing the valuation of
the property of a public utility for future rate-making
purposes. There this Court held that the function assigned to the courts of the District in the statutory proceeding was not judicial in the sense of the Constitution,
but was legislative and advisory, because it was that of
instructing and aiding the commission in the exertion
of power which was essentially legislative.
In the cases just cited, as also in others, it is recognized
that the courts of the District of Columbia are not created
under the judiciary article of the Constitution but are
legislative courts, and therefore that Congress may invest
them with jurisdiction of appeals and proceedings such
as have been just described.
This jurisdiction also was trans2 Now § 89, Title 15, U. S. C.
ferred to the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals by the act cited
in note 1.

RADIO COMM. v. GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. 469
464

Opinion of the Court.

But this Court cannot be invested with jurisdiction of
that character, whether for purposes of review or otherwise. It was brought into being by the judiciary article of
the Constitution, is invested with judicial power only
and can have no jurisdiction other than of cases and
controversies falling within the classes enumerated in
that article. It cannot give decisions which are merely
advisory; nor can it exercise or participate in the exercise
of functions which are essentially legislative or administrative. Keller v. Potomac Electric Power Co., supra,
p. 444, and cases cited; Postur Cereal Co. v. California
Fig Nut Company, supra,pp. 700-701; Liberty Warehouse
Co. v. Grannis, 273 U. S. 70, 74; Willing v. Chicago Auditorium Association, 277 U. S. 274, 289; Ex parte Bakelite
Corporation,279 U. S. 438, 449.
The proceeding on the appeal from the commission's
action is quite unlike the proceeding, under sections 1001
(a)-1004 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat.,
pt. 2, 109, on a petition for the review of a decision of
the Board of Tax Appeals; for, as this Court heretofore
has pointed out, such a petition (a) brings before the
reviewing court the United States or its representative on
the one hand and the interested taxpayer on the other,
(b) presents for consideration either the right of the
United States to the payment of a tax claimed to be due
from the taxpayer or his right to have refunded to him
money which he has paid to satisfy a tax claimed to have
been erroneously charged against him, and (c) calls for
a judicial and binding determination of the matter so
presented-all of which makes the proceeding a case or
controversy within the scope of the judicial power as
defined in the judiciary article. Old Colony Trust Co. v.
•Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 279 U. S. 716,
724-727:
And what is said in some of the cases already cited
respecting the nature and purpose of suits to enforce or

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
281 U. S.

Syllabus.

set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
as also orders of the Federal Trade Commission, makes
it apparent that the jurisdiction exercised in those suits
is not administrative, but strictly judicial, and therefore
quite unlike the jurisdiction exercised on appeals from
the Radio Commission.
Of course the action of the Court of Appeals in assessing
the costs against the commission did not alter the nature
of the proceeding.
Our conclusion is that the proceeding in that court was
not a case or coritroversy in the sense of the judiciary
article, but was an administrative proceeding, and therefore that the decision therein is not reviewable by this
Court.
Writ of certioraridismissed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

did not participate in the

consideration or decision of this case.

GRUBB v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF
OHIO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 491.

Motion to Dismiss or Affirm submitted January 27, 1930.Decided May 19, 1930.

1. A judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio, affirmed, upon review
under Gen. Code, §§ 544, 545, an order of the StAte Public Utilitie,
Commission, which, in granting to the appellant a license to operate
a line of passenger motor buses within the State, forbade his adding
to the route a loop to a point in an adjacent State near the state
line and back. Held conclusive as res judicata in a suit in the
federal court, upon the questions whether the prohibition in the
order violated rights of the appellant under the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution and under the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 475.

