OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

281 U. S.

It cannot be supposed that any distinction was intended
to be drawn between the consequences of operating a
car within the District by one whose right to operate
under a foreign license had been suspended and one
whose right to operate under a District license had been
revoked or suspended. We can find nothing in the sections cited or the Traffic Acts as a whole to suggest that
there is.
Reversed.

COLLIE

ET AL.

v. FERGUSSON

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 423.

Argued January 13, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. Rev. Stats., § 4529, providing that the owner of any vessel making
coastwise voyages who refuses or neglects to pay a seaman's wages
in the manner therein prescribed "without sufficient cause," shall
pay the seaman a sum equal to two days' pay for each day
during which payment is delayed, does not apply where delay in
payment is due to the insolvency of the owner and the arrest of
the vessel subject to accrued claims beyond its value. P. 54.
2. Evidence in an admiralty suit not reviewed when sufficient to support the concurrent action of twc courts below. P. 57.
3. Seamen who appealed unsuccessfully to the Circuit Court of Appeals from a decree in admiralty properly denying their claims to
payment of' double wages for waiting time from the proceeds of a
vessel, held entitled to two-thirds of the costs in that court because
payment of wages from such proceeds, adjudged in their favor,
was withheld through a suspension of the decree pending the
appeal, ordered by the District Court at the instance of their
opponents, who took no cross appeal; P. 57.
31 F. (2d) 1010, modified and affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 547, to review a decree of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals affirming a decree in admiralty.
Mr. Jacob L. Morewitz, with whom Mr. Percy Carmel
was on the brief, for petitioners.

COLLIE v. FERGUSSON.
52

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Leon T. Seawell and Henry Bowden, with
whom Messrs. D. Arthur Kelsey, R. Arthur Jett, Walter
Sibert and Samuel E. Forwood were on the brief, submitted for respondents.
MR. JCSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on writ of certiorari, granted October
28, 1929, to review a decree of the Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit, which affirmed, without opinion, a
decree of the District Court of Eastern Virginia, denying,
also without opinion, the claims of petitioners, who are
seamen, for double wages for "waiting time," under R. S.
§ 4529; Tit. 46, U. S. Code, § 596; (Act of July 20, 1790,
c. 29, § 6, 1 Stat. 133; Act June 7, 1872, c. 322, § 35, 17
Stat. 269, as amended, Act December 31, 1898, c. 28, § 26,
30 Stat. 764; Act March 4, 1915, c. 153, § 3, 38 Stat. 1164).
The power boat "Dola Lawson," licensed .for coastwise
trade, and Fergusson, her owner, were libelled for repairs
and materials supplied to the vessel. Intervening petitions were filed, setting up claims for wages and the statutory allowance for waiting time in the case of the present
petitioners, and for repairs, materials and supplies in the
case of other libellants. The'vessel was sold by order of
the court, and the proceeds, which are insufficient to satisfy. the claims allowed, were paid into the registry of the
court to the credit of the cause.
The employment of two of the petitioners was terminated by the seizure of the vessel. That of the third,
Rowe, was tei-minated by mutual consent some six months
before the seizure. There was evidence from which the
trial court might have concluded that he consented to
deferred payment of his wages because of the financial
necessities of the owner. It was admitted on the argument that the owner, because of his insolvency, was unable
to pay seamen's wages and that petitioners must look alone
to the proceeds of the vessel for the satisfaction of their

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
/

Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

claims,-admissions which find support in the confused,
and in many respects unsatisfactory, record.
The District Court denied petitioners' claims for double
wages for waiting time, but decreed payment of the wages
due, with interest, as prior liens. Although the other
lienors did not appeal, the court, at their instance, but for
reasons which do not appear, suspended the decree pending the appeal, so that the wages allowed could not be
paid from the proceeds of the vessel. To the amounts
found due the petitioners, the Court of Appeals added
interest until payment.
Section 4529, so far as relevant, provides: "The master
or owner of any vessel dnaking coastwise voyages shall
pay to every seaman his wages within two days after the
termination of the agreement under which he was shipped,
or at the time such seaman is discharged, whichever first
happens. . . . Every master or owner who refuses or
neglects to make payment in the manner hereinbefore
mentioned, without sufficient cause, shall pay to the seaman a sum equal to two (lays' pay for each and every day
during which payment is delayed . . ., which sum
shall be recoverable as wages in any claim made before
the Court
"
The claim for double wages which, when valid, is by the
terms of the statute " recoverable as wages," has been held
to be embraced in the seaman's lien for wages with priority
over other liens, and governed by the procedure applicable to suits for the recovery of scamen's wages. The
Trader, 17 F. (2d) 623; Gerber v. Spencer, 278 Fed. 886;
The Nika, 287 Fed. 717; Thc Great Canton, 299 Fed. 953;
The Fort Gaines, 18 F. (2d) 413; The St. Paul. 77 Fed.
998; Buckley v: Oceanic S. S. Co., 5 F. (2d) 545; The
Charles L. Baylis, 25 Fed. 862; The British Brig Wexford,
3 Fed. 577; Cox v. Lykes Brothers, 237 N. Y. 376; cf. The
Morning Star, I F. (2d) 410, 411.

COLLIE v. FERGUSSON.
52

Opinion of the Court.

With these rulings as a premise, petitioners argue that
the statutory allowance is compensatory; that it accrues
upon mere delay in payment of wages, and may be recovered by including it in petitioners' liens for wages,
which have priority over the liens of materialmen, notwithstanding the general rule that events subsequent to
the seizure do not give rise to liens against a vessel in custodia legis. See The Young America, 30 Fed. 789, 790;
The Nisseqoque, 280 Fed. 174, 181; The Grapeshot, 22
Fed. 123. Cf. New York Dock Co. v. The Poznan, 274
U. S. 117.
But the increased payment for waiting time is not
denominated wages by the statute, and the direction that
it shall be recovered as wages does not purport to affect
the condition prerequisite to its accrual, that refusal or
neglect to pay shall be without sufficient cause. The
phrase "without sufficient cause" must be taken to embrace something more than valid defenses to the claim
for wages. Otherwise, it would have added nothing to
the statute. In determining what other causes are sufficient, the phrase is to be interpreted in the light of the
evident purpose of the section to secure prompt payment
of seamen's wages (H. R. Rep. 1657, Committee on
the Merchant Marine and Fisheries, 55th Cong., 2nd
Sess.) and thus to protect them from the harsh consequences of arbitrary and unscrupulous action of their
employers, to which, as a class, they are peculiarly
exposed.
The words "refuses or neglect to make payment . ..
without sufficient cause" connote, either conduct which
is in some sense arbitrary or wilful, or at least a failure
not attributable to impossibility of payment. We think
the use of this language indicates a purpose to protect
seamen from delayed payments of wages by the imposition of a liability which is not exclusively compensatory,

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
. Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

but designed to prevent, by its coercive effect, arbitrary
refusals to pay wages, and to induce prompt payment
when payment is possible. Hence we conclude that the
liability is not imposed regardless of the fault of the
master or owner, or his retention of any interest in the
vessel from which payment could be made. It can afford
no such protection and exert no effective coercive force
where delay in payment, as here, is due to the insolvency
of the owner and the arrest of the vessel, subject to
accrued claims beyond its value. Together these obstacles to payment of wages must be taken to be a sufficient cause to relieve from the statutory liability. The
Trader,supra; Feldman v. American Palestine Line, Inc.,
supra. Cf. Gerber v. Spencer, supra. Otherwise, it would
not be imposed on the owner directly or through his interest in the ship, but only upon the lienors, who are
neither within the letter nor the spirit of the statute.
That the liability is not incurred where the refusal to
pay is in some reasonable degree morally justified, or
where the demand for wages cannot be satisfied either
by the owner or his interest in the ship, has been the
conclusion reached with practical unanimity by the lower
federal courts. The Wenonah, Fed. Cas. No. 17, 412;
The General McPherson, 100 Fed. 860; The Alice B.
Phillips, 106 Fed. 956; The George W. Wells, 118 Fed.
761; The Express, 129 Fed..655; The St. Paul, supra; The
Sadie C. Sumner, 142 Fed. 611; The Amazon, 144 Fed.
153; The Sentinel, 152 Fed. 564; Pacific Mail S. S. Co. v.
Schmidt, 214 Fed. 513, 520; The Moshulu, 276 Fed. 35;
The Acropolis, 8 F. (2d) 110; Villigas v. United States,
8 F. (2d) 300; The Trader, supra; Feldman v. American
Palestine Line, Inc., supra; cf. The City of Montgomery,
210 Fed. 673, 675; Burns v. Fred L. Davis Co., 271 Fed.
439; Gerber v. Spencer, supra; The Lake Galewood,
21 F. (2d) 987.

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. CRAIL.
52

Syllabus.

The evidence affecting the claim of Rowe is not reviewed, since, as already indicated, there is evidence
which, in the light of the statute as now interpreted, supports the concurrent action of the two courts below.
It is unnecessary to pass upon the contention, apparently first made here, that § 4529 does not apply to fishing vessels (see Notes to § 596, Tit. 46, U. S. C. A.), and
that the "Dola Lawson," although licensed for the coastwise trade, must be deemed excluded from the operation
of the Act because of her use as a fishing vessel.
In view of the unwarranted retention of the amount
awarded to petitioners, as wages, by that part of the
decree of the District Court from which no appeal was
taken, the costs in the Court of Appeals will be divided,
two-thirds to appellants and one-third to appellees, and
the decree below as so modified will be
Affirmed.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD OMPANY v.
CRAIL, DOING BUSINESS AS P. McCOY FUEL
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 75.

Argued January 10, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. Under the Cummins Amendment and the cqmmon law of compensatory damages, the amount which a coal dealer is entitled to
recover from a rail carrier for failure to make delivery of part of
a car-load shipment of coal, is the full actual loss at point of destination. P. 63.
2. Where the shortage was capable of replacement and was, in fact,
replaced in the course of the dealer's business from purchases made
in car-load lots at wholesale market price without added expense,
the recovery is measured by the wholesale price, including any
profit over cost at the mine plus freight, and not by the retail
market price, which includes costs of delivery to retuil customers

