OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

with the rule as thus stated,' the distinction, with respect
to the effect of state legislation, has come to be clearly
established between substantive and remedial rights. A
state statute of a mere remedial character, such as that
which the petitioner invokes, can not enlarge the right
to proceed in a Federal court sitting in equity, and the
Federal court may, therefore, be obliged to deny an
equitable remedy which the plaintiff might have had in
a state court. Pusey & Jones v. Hanssen, supra.
The provision of the act of Congress does not extend
to the jurisdiction of the Federal court, but governs the
proceedings in equity and, unless the case is one where
the objection may be treated as. waived by the party entitled to raise it, the prohibition is not to be disregarded.
Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, 395; Singer Sewing
Machine Company v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481, 484; American Mills Company v. American Surety Company, 260
U. S. 360, 363. There was no waiver in the present case
and, as the petitioner had an adequate remedy at law,.
the District Court could not properly entertain the suit.
Decree affirmed without prejudice to proceedings
at law.
NOGUEIRA v. NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT,

No. 248.

Argued February 28, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

N. was injured while employed by a railroad company as one of a
gang of freight handlers in loading freight into railroad cars on a
car float lying in navigable waters at a pier. The float was a yes'See Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153, 157; Greeley v.
Lowe, 155 U. S. 58, 75; Cowley v. Northern Pacific Railroad Company, 159 U. S. 569, 582; Grether v. Wright, 75 Fed. 742.

NOGUEIRA v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO.
128

Opinion- of the Court.

sel of '500 tons belonging to the company and was used in the
transportation of such cars. The injury occurred on the float
while N. was handling a piece of interstate freight. Held:
1. That the car float, being in navigable waters, was subject to
the maritime law like any other- vessel. P. 134.
2. Since the injury was within the exclusive admiralty and maritime jirisdiction, a recovery for it through workmen's compensation proceedings could not validly be provided by state law. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205. Id.
.3.The case is governed by the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, which prescribes exclusively the liability of
employers where employees engaged in maritime employment suffer disability or death from injuries occurring upon the navigable
waters of the United States and recovery through workmen's compensation proceedings may not validly be provided by state law,
and which excepts the master, and members of the crew of any
vessel and .persons engaged by the master to load or unload or
repair any vessel under eighteen tons net, but makes no exception
of railroad employees engaged in interstate or foreign commerce.
Pp. 131, 134, et seq.
32 F. (2d) 179, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 541, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment dismissing
the complaint in an action under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act.
Mr. Sol Gelb, with whom Mr. Humphrey J.'Lynch was
on the. brief, for petitioner.
Mr, Edward R. Brumley, with whom Messrs. John M.
Gibbons, Fleming James, Jr., and Edmund J. Moore were

on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUsTicE, HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In this action, brought in the District Court of the
United' States under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, the complaint was dismissed upon the ground that
98234 *-30-----9

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation
Act of March 4, 1927, was applicable and afforded an
exclusive remedy. (c. 509, 44 Stat. 1424; U. S. C. Tit.
33, secs. 901-950). The judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 32 Fed. (2d) 179.
The petitioner was injured on a car float of five hundred tons belonging to the defendant railroad company.
The float was a vessel used in the transportation of. railroad cars and at the time of the injury was lying in navigable waters at pier 42, East River, New York harbor.
The petitioner was employed by the railroad company
as one of a gang of freight handlers in loadi.ng freight
into cars on the float. He was using a hand truck in
carrying a bale of paper, a piece of interstate freight, and,
as the float was several feet lower than the dock, it was
necessary to move the bale over a plank which ran from
the dock to the middle of the float at a steep incline.
Several men were assigned to help the petitioner in order
to control the movement of the bale by handhooks. The
petitioner was in front of the 'truck holding its handles
and alleged that by the negligence of the other men, who
failed to hold the bale properly, it got out of control and
skidded down the plank, throwing the petitioner on the
floor of the float and crushing his leg.
The contention is that the car float was used as an
adjunct to railroad transportation in interstate commerce,
and that it was not the intention of Congress to substitute
the remedy under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act for that afforded by the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. The Circuit Court of Appeals
assumed that the petitioner would have been entitled to
prosecute his claim under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act if the later act did not apply. If the latter was applicable the remedy thereunder was made exclusive by

NOGUEIRA v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO.
128

131

Opinion of the Court.

the explicit provision of section 5. 44 Stat. p. 1426;
U. S. C., Tit. 33, see. 905.'
The general scheme of the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Compensation Act was to provide compensation
to employees engaged in maritime employment, except as
stated, for disability or death resulting from injury occuring upon the navigable waters of the United States
where recovery through workmen's compensation proceedings might not validly be provided by state law. Employers are bound to secure the payment of the prescribed
benefits to those of their employees whose employment
to be payis covered -by the act, and this compensation is,
able irrespective of fault as a cause of the injury.
Employers are thus defined in section 2, subdivision (4)
(44 Stat. 1425, U. S. C. Tit. 33, sec. 902): "The term'
'employer' means an employer any of whose employees
are employed in maritime employment, in whole or in
part, upon the navigable waters of the United States (ineluding any dry dock.)" The term is not defined otherwise, with respect either to the nature or the scope of
1Section 5 provides: "The liability of an employer prescribed in

Section 4 shall be exclusive and in place of all other liability of such

employer to the employee, his legal representative, husband or wife,
parents, dependents, next of kin, and anyone otherwise entitled to
recover damages from such employer at law or in admiralty on account of such injury or death, except that-if an employer fails to
secure payment of compensation as required by this Act, an injured
employee, or his legal representative in case death results from the
injury, may elect to claim compensation under this Act, or to maintain an action at law or in admiralty for damages on account of
such injury or death In such action the defendant niay not plead
as a defense that the injury was caused by the negligence of a
fellow servant, nor that the employee assumed the risk of his employment, nor that the injury was due to the contributory negligence
of the employee."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the enterprises in which the employer is engaged. The
definition is manifestly broad enough to embrace a railroad company, provided it has employees who "are employed in maritime employment, in whole or in part, upon
the navigable waters of the United States."
The employees subject to the act are not defined affirmatively, but section 2, subdivision (3) (id.) contains the
following limitation: "The term 'employee' does not
include a master or member of a crew of any vessel, nor
any person engaged by the master to load or unload or
repair any small vessel under eighteen tons net." In this
instance, the petitioner was not the master or member of
the crew of the vessel, and the vessel was not under
eighteen tons.
The 'coverage' of the act is stated in section 3, subdivision (a) (44 Stat. 1426, U. S. C. Tit. 33, sec. 903):
"Sec. 3. (a) Compensation shall be payable under this
Act in respect of disability or death of -an employee, but
only if the disability or death results from an injury
occurring upon the navigable waters of the United States
(including any dry dock) and if recovery for the disability
or death through workmen's compensation proceedings
may not validly be provided by State law."
In Atlantic Transport Company v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S.
52, the libelant was engaged as a stevedore in loading a
ship lying in port in navigable waters. The court had no
doubt that he was performing a maritime service and
that the rights and liabilities of the parties were matters
within the admiralty jurisdiction. In Southern Pacific
Company v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, the Southern Pacific
Company, a common carrier by railroad in interstate
commerce, also operated a steamship between New York
and Galveston. Jensen, an employee of the company,
was killed while he was engaged in unloading the ship
which was berthed at a pier in the North River, New

NOGUEIRA v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO.
128

Opinion of the Court.

York harbor. He was operating a small electric freight
truck which he drove out of the vessel upon a gang plank
running to the pier. The Court of Appeals of New York
held that the Workmen's Compensation Act of th' State
applied to his employment and that the statute was not
obnoxious to the Federal Constitution. In this Court,
two questions were presented, first, whether the Federal
Employers' Liability Act was applicable and hence the
state statute could not control; and, second, whether the
Workmen's Compensation Act of the State conflicted with
the general maritime law which constitutes an integral
part of the Federal law under Article III, section 2, of
the Federal Constitution. Concluding that the case was
not within the Federal Employers' Liability Act, as the
ship could not properly be regarded as a part of the railroad's extension or equipment, the Court took up the
second question and decided that the New York Workmen's Compensation Act could not constitutionally
govern the case of one injured upon navigable waters
while engaged in maritime service. It was said that the
state statute attempted to give a remedy unknown to
the common law, incapable of enforcement by the ordinary proceedings of any Court, which was not saved to
suitors from the constitutional grant of exclusive jurisdiction to the Federal District Courts.
In State Industiial Commission v. Nordenholt Corporation, 259 U. S. 263, a longshoreman was injured on a
dock while engaged in unloading a vessel. It was decided
that in such a case, where the injury took place on an
extension of the land, the maritime law did not prescribe
the liability and the local law had always governed. The
Workmen's Compensation Law of the State was accordingly held to be applicable. The distinction was thus
maintained between injuries on land and those which
were suffered by persons engaged in maritime employment
on a vessel in navigable waters.

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281U.S.

From the standpoint of maritime. employment, it obviously makes no difference whether the freight is placed
in the hold or on the deck of a vessel, or whether the vessel
is a car float or a steamship. A car float in navigable
waters is subject to the maritime law like any other vessel.
The injury caused to petitioner in this case is thus as
much within the exclusive admiralty and maritime jurisdiction as was that of the employee in Southern Pacific
Company v. Jensert, supra, and recovery for the injury
" through workmen's compensation proceedings" could
not "validly be provided by state law."
As the present case falls directly within the affirmative
provisions of section 3 of the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Compensation Act, we look next to the cases
specially excepted. Section 3, after the provision quoted
above, continues:
" No compensation shall be payable in respect of the
disability or death of"(1) A master or member of a crew of any vessel, nor
any person engaied by the master to load or unload or
repair any small vessel under eighteen tons net; or
"(2) An officer or employee of the United States or any
agency thereof, or of any State or foreign government, or
of any political subdivision thereof."
The case of the petitioner does not come within any of
these exceptions. Their limited character is significant.
No exception is made of the employees of a railroad company employed in maritime service on the navigable
waters of the United States or with respect to the question whether such employment was in connection with an
extension of railroad transportation. As to the master
and crew of a vessel, it should be noted that section 33 of
the Merchant Marine Act, 1920 (c. 250, 41 Stat. 988,
1007), gave to seamen the rights and remedies under all
statutes of the United States which were applicable to
railway employees in cases of personal injury, thus carry-

-

NOGUEIRA v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO.
128

Opinion of the Court.

ing to seamen the benefit of the provisions of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. PanamaRailroad Company v.
Johnson, 264 U. S. 375; Engel v. Davenport, 271 U. S.33.
Longshoremen engaged on a vessel at dock in navigable
waters, in the work of loading or unloading, have been
held to be seamen. International Stevedoring Company
v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50; Northern Coal Company v.
Strand, 278 U. S. 142. But seamen, including longshoremen engaged in loading or unloading, if injured on
a vessel in navigable waters, .could not constitutionally
have the benefit of a state workmen's compensation act,
even if an act of Congress so provided. After the decision
in Southern Pacific Company v. Jensen, supra, Congress
amended clause three of section 24 and clause three of
section 256 of the Judicial Code relating to cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, by adding to the clause
saving to suitors common law remedies the words "and
to claimants the rights and remedies under the workmen's
compensation law of any State" (Act of October 6, 1917,
.c.
97, 40 Stat. 395). In Knickerbocker Ice Company v.
Stewart, 253 U. 'S.149, this Co urt held that the attempted amendment was unconstitutional as being an
unwarranted delegation of the legislative power of Congress and as destroying the uniformity which the Constitution had established and thus defeating the constitutionar grant of jurisdiction to the Federal Courts. By
the Act of June 10, 1922 (c. 216, 42 Stat. 634), Congress
again amended clause three of section 24 and clause three
of section 256 of the Judicial Code: There was added to
the saving clause the words "and to claimants for compensation for injuries to or death of persons other than
the master or members of the crew of a vessel their rights
and remedies under the workmen's compensation law of
any State, District, Territory, or possession of the United
States, which rights and remedies when conferred by such
law shall be exclusive." This Court decided that the ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

ception of the master and crew of a vessel was insufficient
to meet the objections which had been pointed out and
the amendment was held to be unconstitutional. Washington v. Dawson & Company, 264 U. S. 219.
When the bill which became the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act was pending in Congress, the importance of the policy of compensation acts,
and their advantages in providing for appropriate compensation in the case of injury or death of employees
without regard to the. fault of the employer, were- distinctly recognized. It appears that the bill originally
excluded a master or members of a crew of a vessel, but
was amended so as to extend to them the benefits of
compensation (House Rep. No. 1767, 69th Cong., 2d sess.).
As these seamen preferred to remain outside of the provisions of the bill, they were finally excluded and the bill
was passed with the exceptions above-quoted. (Cong.
Rec., 69th Cong., 2d. sess., vol. 68, pt. 5, p. 5908.) There
was no exclusion of stevedores or of those sustaining injuries upon navigable waters in loading or unloading a
vessel unless it was under eighteen tons net. The application of the act in such cases was explicitly made to
depend upon the question whether the injury occurred
upon navigable waters and recovery therefor could not
validly be provided by a state compensation statute.
The bill, as reported to, and first passed by, the Senate,
contained a provision in section 3 excepting " an employee
of a common carrier by railroad engaged in interstate or
foreign commerce or in commerce within any Territory
or the District of Columbia if the injury from which the
disability or death results occurred while the employee
was employed in such commerce." (Sen. Rep. No. 973,
69th Cong., 1st sess.) This exception was eliminated
from the bill as finally passed.
It is hardly necessary to go further, as the clear and
constitutional requirements of the act of Congress in the

NOGUEIRA v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO.
128

137

Opinion of the Court.

furtherance of the policy conceived to be in the interest
of employees can not be escaped by any permissible
process of construction. For the opposing view it is said
that repeals by implication are not favored. But it is
not a case of resort to implication. The act expressly
provides that liability thereunder " shall be exclusive and
in place of all other liability of such employer to the employee, his legal representative . . . at law or in admiralty." It is further provided that if the employer in the
case of the described employees engaged in maritime
employment does not give the required compensation, the
employee or his legal representative can maintain an action at law for damages, and in such an action, not only
are the defenses of contributory negligence and the negligence. of a fellow servant excluded, but also that of
assumption of risk, a defense which is still open under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act save in specified cases.
Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492;
Pryor v. Williams, 254 U. S. 43. Not only is the payment
of compensation under the act a bar to recovery at law
but, if the compensation is not given, the remedy then
available at law has its special incidents.
. Nor is there anything of substance added to the argument for the petitioner by reference to the possible effect
on the application of other liws in cases which come
within the purview of the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Compensation Act, for the question still is to
what cases does that act apply according to its terms.
The fact that the same employee of a railroad company
may have different rights at different times is a familiar
consequence of the application of different laws, as, for
example, when the employee of a railroad company is
engaged at one time in intrastate commerce and at another time, even on the same day, in interstate commerce;
and the application of Feeral laws where the employment falls within the Federal jurisdiction is manifestly

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

a matter within the discretion of Congress. Panama
Railroad Company v. Johnson, supra. In the present instance, had the petitioner been engaged in intrastate commerce, his case still would have been within the maritime
jurisdiction of the Federal courts, and he would have been
denied the benefit of the state compensation law. See
London Guarantee & Accident Company v. Industrial
Accident Comnission, 279 U. S. 109. In these circumstances Congress dealt with the maritime employment of
longshoremen whose injuries sustained on navigable
ivaters would fall within the exclusive maritime jurisdiction, without regard to the distinction between intrastate
and interstate transportation.
It is also pointed out that in the Act of May 17, 1928
(c. 612, 45 Stat. 600), applying the provisions of the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act
to employees in the District of Columbia, a special exception was added of the case of an employee of a common
carrier by railroad when engaged in interstate or foreign
commerce or commerce solely within the District of
Columbia. The fact that a similar exception was left
out of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and was inserted in the later statute works
against, rather than for, the petitioner's contention.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. UNZEUTA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 509.

Argued March 12, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. When the United States acquires title to lands by purchase with
the consent of the legislature of the State within which they are
situated "for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards
and other needful buildings" (Const., Art. I, ยง 8,) the federal jurisdiction is exclusive of all state authority. P. 142.

