586

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

281 U.S.

not be so regarded. We think they are on the same plane
as the parts of speedometers just dealt with. The judgment should be affirmed.
In Nos. 127 and 350 judgments reversed and cases
remanded for further findings.
In Nos. 275, 351 and 352 judgments affirmed.
BALDWIN ET AL. V. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF
MISSOURI.

No. 417.

Argued April 23, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

A resident of Illinois, dying there, willed all her property to her
son, also a resident of that State. The will was probated in
Illinois and an inheritance tax was there laid upon all her intangible personalty, wherever situate. At the time of her. death
she owned credits for cash deposited in banks located in Missouri,
and coupon bcnds of the United States and promissory notes, all
physically within that State. Some of the notes had been executed by citizens of Missouri, and some were secured on lands
there. Held that the credits, bonds and notes were not within the
jurisdiction of Missouri for taxation purposes, and that to enforce
Missouri transfer or inheritance taxes reckoned upon their value
would violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 591.
323 Mo. 207, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri, which reversed a judgment of the 'state Circuit
Court and sustained an inheritance tax., assessed by ihe
Probate Court, which the Circuit Court, on appeal, had
found invalid.

Messrs. John F. Garner and Harry Carstarphen, for
plaintiffs in error and appellants.
A bank deposit is an'ordinary debt. Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1. Bonds and notes are not things
tangible, but are evidences of debt only. Blodgett v.

BALDWIN v. MISSOURI.
586

Argument for Appellee.

Silberman, supra; State Tax on Foreign Held Bonds, 15
Wall. 300; Rhode Island Hospital Trust Co. v. Doughton,
270 U. S. 69; Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota,
280 U. S. 204.
It may no longer be questioned that the situs of intangible personal property is the domicile of the owner
of the choses in action or debt. Frick v. Pennsylvania,
268 U. S. 473; Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton,
supra; Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, supra;
Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S. 83.
To avoid confiscation of property and yet to give full
force and effect to constitutional taxing provisions, only
onb State should be permitted to tax the devolution of
the same property and that State is the State of the legal
situs.
Messrs. Stratton Shartel, Attorney General of Missouri, and A. M. Meyer, Assistant Attorney General, with
whom Mr. Lieutellus Cunningham, Assistant Attorney
General, was on the brief, for defendant in error and
appellee.
This case, so far as it relates to a tax measured by bank
deposits, is distinguishable from Farmers Loan & Trust
Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, and it is not necessarily
within the principle criticized in that case as having
formed the basis of Blackstone v. M7l1er, 188 U. S. 189.
To sustain the tax it is not necessary to say that a
chose in action necessarily has a situs for taxation purposes at the domicile of the debtor, nor that the Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent the taxation of
the same property by different States upon inconsistent
principles.
Succession and inheritance taxes may be measured by
the value of the United States bonds of a non-resident
decedent when found within the jurisdiction of the State
levying the tax. Blackstone v. Miller, supra.

• OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

On this phase th e case differs from Farmers Loan &
Trust Co. v. Minnesota, in that here the evidences of debt
were actually present in Missouri.
Succession and inheritance taxes may be measured by
the value of promissory notes secured by mortgages on
Missouri real estate and owed by residents of Missouri,
where the notes and securities were in Missouri, even
though they belonged to the estate of a non-resident
decedent. In re Merriam's Estate, 147 Mich. 630; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S.189.
The unsecured notes probably stand on the same footing as the bank deposits, save that the record does not
disclose that any evidence of indebtedness issued by the
bank to the decedent was found in Missouri.
MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The validity of Sec. 558, R. S. of Missouri, 1919, was
duly challenged in the court below; by the judgment
there the rights of the parties were finally determined;
the cause is properly here on appeal.
While a resident of Quincy, Adams County, Illinois,
Carrie Pool Baldwin died, October 4, 1926. By will she
left all her property to Thomas A. Baldwin, her son, a
resident of the same place, and appointed him sole executor. The will was duly probated at her residence and
under the statute of Illinois an inheritance tax was there
laid upon the value of all her intangible personalty,
wherever situated.
Ancillary letters of administration with the will annexed issued out of the probate court of Lewis County,
Missouri, to Harry Carstarphen, October 22, 1926. A
report to that court revealed that at the time of her
death Mrs. Baldwin owned real estate in Missouri;
credits for cash deposited with two or more banks located
there; also certain coupon bonds issued by the United

BALDWIN v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

586

States and sundry promissory notes which were then
physically within that State. Most of these notes were executed by citizens of Missouri and the larger part were
secured by liens upon lands lying therein.
Under Sec. 558, R. S. 1919,* (copied in margin) the
State of Missouri demanded transfer or inheritance taxes
reckoned upon the value of all the above described property. No denial of this claim was made in respect of the
real estate; but as to the personalty it was resisted up~on
the ground that the property was not within the jurisdiction of the State for taxation purposes and to enforce
the demand would violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
*

Section 558, Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1019, Chapter 1, Ar-

ticle XXI:
"A tax shall be and is hereby imposed upon the transfer of any
property, real, personal or mixed or any interest therein or income
therefrom, in trust or otherwise, to persons, institutions, associations,
or corporation, not hereinafter exempted, in the 'following cases:
When the transfer is by will or by the intestate laws of this state
from any person dying possessed of the property while a resident of
the state. When the transfer is by will, or intestate law of property
within the state or within the jurisdiction of the state and decedent
was a non-resident of the state at the time of his death. When the
transfer is made by a resident or by a non-resident when such nonresident's property is within this state, or within its jurisdiction, by
deed, grant, bargain, sale or gift made in contemplation of the death
of grantor, vendor or donor, or intending to take effect in possession
or enjoyment at or after such death. Every transfer by deed, grant,
bargain, sale or gift made within two years prior to the death of
grantor, vendor or donor, of a material part of his estate or in the
nature of a final disposition or distribution thereof without an adequate valuable consideration shall be construed to have been made in
contemplation of death within the meaning of this section. Such tax
shall be imposed when any person, association, institution-or corporation actually comes into the possession and enjoyment of the property,
interest therein, or income therefrom, whether the transfer thereof
is made before or after the passage of this act: Provided, that property
which is actually vested in such persons or corporations before this
act takes effect shall not be subject to the tax."

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The Lewis County Circuit Court declared the transfer
of the personal property not subject to taxation; the Supreme Court reached a different conclusion and directed
payment.
It does not appear and is not claimed that either the
decedent or her son ever resided in Missouri. The record
discloses nothing tending to show that the personal property had been given a business situs in that State.
Among other things, the Supreme Court said"In recent cases we have held, for the purpose of property tax, that the situs of a credit is the domicile of the
creditor, . . .
"If we could apply the same rule to an inheritance tax,
we might have less difficulty in disposing of this case.
The inheritance, tax statute, Article XXI, Ch. 1, R. S.
1919, provides an entirely independei,. method of ascertaining the property subject to inheritance tax from that
applicable for general tax. The definition of the term
'property' in the last section, 589, of that Article, makes
inapplicable any definition relating to general property
tax. An inheritance tax is not a property tax, but an
excise tax, or a tax upon succession. (In re Zook's Estate,
317 Mo. 986, 296 S. W. 780, and cases cited.) . . .
"These notes, bonds and cash were all in the possession of the administrator in Missouri. For what purpose
they were in Missouri is not shown. We cannot assume
that they were in the State of Missouri for the purpose
of escaping taxation in the State of Illinois. It is a
reasonable inference that the cash and notes in such
large quantities in Missouri, when none of it was held
in Illinois, was retained in this State for the purpose of
investment. They may hale established a business situs
in this State, in which case it would be subject to a general tax as well as the inheritance tax. . ..
"It [the personalty] possibly acquired a business situs
in this State. Whether it did or not it was within the

BALDWIN v. MISSOURI.
586

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of the State and property subject to the transfer tax. It would have been a proper subject of inquiry
by the trial court to determine how and why and under
what conditions these evidences of debt were in this State,
but whatever the determination of that question the property was legally within the jurisdiction of the probate
court of Lewis county in this State and subject to the
tax."

The challenged judgment rests upon the broad theory
that a State may lay succession or inheritance taxes measured by the value of any deposits in local banks passing
from a non-resident decedent; also upon the value of
bonds issued by the United States and promissory notes
executed by individual citizens of the State, when devised by such non-resident, if these bonds or notes happen to be found within the confines of the State when
death occurs. The cause was decided below prior to
our determination of Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S.
189, was cited in support of the conclusion reached. Considering Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota and previous opinions there referred to, the theory upon which
the court below proceeded is untenable and its judgment
must be reversed.
Ordinarily, bank deposits are mere credits and for purposes of ad valorem taxation have situs at the domicile of
the creditor only. The same general rule applies to negotiable bonds and notes, whether secured by liens on real
estate or otherwise.
In Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S.491, 498, 499, this
Court declared" Plainly, therefore, our only duiy is to inquire whether
the Constitution prohibits a State from taxing, in the
hands of one of its resident citizens, a debt held by him
upon a resident of another State, and evidenced by the
bond of the debtor, secured by deed of trust or mortgage

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

upon real estate situated in the State in which the debtor
resides.
"The question does not seem to us to be very difficult
of solution. The creditor, it is conceded, is a permanent
resident within the jurisdiction of the State imposing the
tax. The debt is property in his hands constituting a
portion of his wealth, from which he is under the highest
obligation, in common with hs fellow-citizens of the same
State, to contribute for the support of the government
whose protection he enjoys.
"That debt, although a species of intangible property,
may, for purposes of taxation, if not for all others, be regarded as situated at the domicile of the creditor. It is
none the less property because its amount and maturity
are set forth in a bond. That bon,' wherever actually
held or deposited, is only evidence of the debt, and if destroyed, the debt-the right to demand payment of the
money loaned, with the stipulated interest-remains. Nor
is the debt, for the purposes of taxation, affected by the
fact that it is secured by mortgage upon real estate situated in Illinois. The mortgage is but a security for the
debt, and, as held in State 'Tax on Foreign-held Bonds,
supra [15 Wall. 300], the right of the creditor 'to proceed against the property mortgaged, upon a given contingency, to enforce by its sale the payment of his demand, . . . has no locality independent of the party in
whom it resides. It may undoubtedly be taxed by the
State when held by a resident therein,' etc. Cooley on
Taxation, 15, 63, 134, 270. The debt, then, having its
situs at the creditor's residence, both he and it are, for the
purposes of taxation, within the jurisdiction of the State."
And in Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, 14"The question here is whether bonds, unlike other
choses in action, may have a situs different from the owner's domicile such as will render their transfer taxable in
the State of that situs and in only that State. We think

BALDWIN v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

586

bonds are not thus distinguishable from other choses in
action. It is not enough to show that the written or
printed evidence of ownership may, by the law of the
State in which they are physically present, be permitted
to be taken in execution or dealt with as reaching that
of which they are evidence, even without the presence
of the owner. While bonds often are so treated, they are
nevertheless in their essence only evidences of debt. The
Supreme Court of Errors expressly admits that they are
choses in action. Whatever incidental qualities may be
added by usage of business or by statutory provision,
this characteristic remains and shows itself by the fact
that their destruction physically will not destroy the debt
which they represent.

They are representative and not

the thing itself."
We find nothing to exempt the.effort to tax the transfer of the deposits in Missouri banks from the principle
applied in Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, supra.
So far as disclosed by the record, the situs of the credit
was in Illinois, where the depositor had her domicile.
There the property interest in the credit passed under
her will; and there the transfer was actually taxed. This
passing was properly taxable at that place and not otherwhere.
The bonds and notes, although physically within Missouri, under our former opinions were choses in action
with situs at the domicile of the creditor. At that point
they too passed from the dead to the living, and there
this transfer was actually ta.xed. As they were not within
Missouri for taxation purposes the transfer was not
subject to her power.- Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S. 69.

It has been suggested that should the State of the
domicile be unable to enforce collection of the tax laid
by it upon the transfer, then in practice all taxation thereon might be evaded. The inference seems to be that
9S23 V-30-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

double taxation-by two States on the same transfershould be sustained in order to prevent escape from liability in exceptional cases. We cannot assent. In Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230, 240, a similar notion
was rejected.
"The presumption and consequent taxation are defended upon the theory that, exercising judgment and
discretion, the legislature found them necessary in order
to prevent evasion of inheritance taxes. That is to say,
'A' may be required to submit to an exactment forbidden
by the Constitution if this seems necessary in order to
enable the State readily to collect lawful charges against
'B.' Rights guaranteed by the federal Constitution are
not to be so lightly treated; they are superior to this supposed necessity. The State is forbidden to deny due
process of law or the equal protection of the laws for any
purpose whatsoever."
If the possibility of evasion be considered from a practical standpoint, then the federal estate tax law, under
which credit is only allowed vhere a tax is paid to the
State, Sec. 1093, Title 26, U. S. C., must be given due
weight. Also, the significance of the adoption of reciprocal exemption laws by most of the States, Farmers Loan
& Trust Co.v. Minnesota, supra, cannot be disregarded.
Normally, as in the present instance, the State of the
domicile enforces its own tax and we need not now consider' the possibility of establishing a situs in another State
by one who should undertake to arrange for succession
there and thus defeat the collection of the death duties
prescribed at his domicile.
This cause does not involve the right of a State to tax
either the interest which a mortgagee as such may have
in lands lying therein, or the transfer of that interest.
Reversed. The cause will be remanded to the Supreme Court of Missouri for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.

BALDWIN v. MISSOURI.
586

HOLMES, J., dissenting.

MR. JusTicE HOLMES.

Although this decision hardly can be called a surprise
after Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S.
204 and Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S.
83, and although I stated my views in those cases, still,
as the term is not over, I think it legitimate to add one
or two reflections to what I have said before. I have
not yet adequately expressed the more than anxiety that
I feel at the ever increasing scope given to the Fourteenth
Amendment in cutting down what I believe to be the
constitutional rights of the States. As the decisions now
stand, I see hardly any limit but the sky to the invalidating of those rights if they happen to strike a majority of
this Court as for any reason undesirable. I cannot believe that the Amendment was intended to give us carte
blanche to embody our economic or moral beliefs in its
prohibitions. Yet I can think of no narrower reason that
seems to me to justify the present and the earlier decisions to which I have referred. Of course the words "due
process of law," if taken in their literal meaning, have no
application to this case; and while it is too late to deny
that they have been given a much more extended and
artificial signification, still we ought to remember the
great caution shown by the Constitution in limiting the
power of the States, and should be slow to construe the
clause in the Fourteenth Amendment as committing to
the Court, with no guide but the Court's own discretion,
the validity of whatever laws the States may pass. In
this case the bonds, notes and bank accounts were within the power and received the protection of the State of
Missouri; the notes, so far as appears, were within the
considerations that I offered in the earlier decisions mentioned, so that logically Missouri was justified in demanding a quid pro quo; the practice of taxation in such
circumstances I think has been ancient and widespread.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

281 U. S.

and the tax was warranted by decisions of this Court.
Liverpool & London & Globe Ins. Co. v. Assessors for the
Parish of Orleans, 221 U. S. 346, 354, 355. Wheeler v.
Sohmer, 233 U. S. 434. (I suppose that these cases and
many others now join Blackstone v. Miller on the Index
Expurgatorius-but we need an authoritative list.) It
seems to me to be exceeding our powers to declare such
a tax a denial of due process of law.
And what are the grounds? Simply, so far as I can see,
that it is disagreeable to a bondowner to be taxed in two
places. Very probably it might be good policy to restrict taxation to a single place, and perhaps the technical
conception of domicil may be the best determinant. But
it seems to me that if that result is to be reached it should
be reached through understanding among the States, by
uniform legislation or otherwise, not by evoking a constitutional prohibition from the void of 'due process of
law,' when logic, tradition and authority have united to
declare the right of the State to lay the now prohibited
tax.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and

MR. JUSTICE STONE

agree

with this -opinion.

Opinion of MR.

JUSTICE STONE.

I agree with what MR.

HOLMES has said, but
as I concurred, on special grounds, with the result in
Farmers Loan & Trust Company v. Minnesota, 280 U. S.
204 and Safe Deposit & Trust Company v. Virginia, 280
U. S. 83, I would say a word of the application now given
to those precedents. I do not think that the overturning
of one*conclusion in Blackstone v. Miller by those cases
should be deemed to carry with it Scottish Union & National Insurance Co. v. Bowland, 196 U. S. 611, Wheeler
v. Sohmer, 233 U. S. 434, upholding a tax measured by a
non-resident's bonds and notes, located within the taxing
JUSTICE

BALDWIN v. MISSOURI.
586

STONE,

J., dissenting.

state; Savings Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S.
421, upholding a tax measured by a non-resident's notes,
secured by mortgages on land within the taxing state; or
Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133 and Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. v. New Orletans, 205 U. S. 395,
upholding a tax upon intang'bles having a "business
situs" within the taxing state, but owned by a non-resident. These cases rest upon principles other than those
applied in Blackstone v. Miller and are not dependent
upon it for support.
It is true that the bonds and notes located in Missouri
are choses in action, rights in which may be transferred
at the domicil of the owner as well as in any other state
in which he may chance to be. But the transfer made
there is not completely effected without their delivery,
which ordinarily can be compelled only in Missouri and
in accordance with its laws. If negotiable, which so far
as appears some of them were, their transfer by delivery.
within Missouri could defeat the transfer made in Illinois.
When secured by mortgage on real estate, the transfer of
the security, which is an inseparable incident of the
chose in action, Carpenterv. Longan, 16 Wall. 271, Lipscomb v. Talbott, 243 Mo. 1, 31, may be affected by the
recording laws, availed of only through the recording facilities where the land is located. See Pickett v. Barron,
29 Barb. 505; Curtis v. Moore, 152 N. Y. 159, 163.
These circumstances, I think, are sufficient to give the
jurisdiction which I thought lacking in Farmers Loan &
Trust Company v. Minnesota, to tax the transfer in Missouri, see Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152 and Rogers v.
Hennepin County, 240 U. S. 184; to say nothing of the
further fact that Missouri laws alone protect the physical
notes and bonds and the security located there. Apart
from the question of jurisdiction, that one must pay a
tax in two places, reaching the same economic interest,
with respect to which he has sought and secured the bene-

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

281 U. S

fit of the laws in both, does not seem to me so oppressive
or arbitrary as to infringe constitutional limitations.
Taxation is a practical matter and if, in the choice uf
the rule we adopt, we may, as the Court has said in
Farmers Loan & Trust Company v. Minnesota, give some
consideration to its practical effect, we ought not, I think,
to overturn long established rules governing the c nstitutional power to tax, without some consideration of the
necessity and of all consequences of the change. Under
the law as it has been, no one need subject himself to
double taxation by keeping his securities in a state different from his domicil, or by seeking the protection of
its laws for his mortgage investments. But it is a practical consideration of some moment that taxation becomes increasingly difficult if the securities of a nonresident may not be taxed where located, and where alone
they may be reached, but where the courts are not
open to the tax gatherers of the domicil. See Moore v.
Mitchell, ante, p. 18, 30 F. (2d) 600; Colorado v.
Harbeck, 232 N. Y. 71.
It is said that the present record discloses nothing
tending to show that the decedent's personal property
had been given a business situs in Missouri. The Supreme Court of Missouri said: " It is a reasonable inference that the cash and notes in such large quantities in
Missouri, when none of it was held in Illinois, was retained in this state for the purpose of investment. They
may have established a business situs in this state .
The burden is not on the state to establish thQ constitutionality of its laws, nor are we limited in supporting
their constitutionality to the reasons assigned by the
state court. I do not assume, from anything that has
been said in this or the earlier cases, that constitutional
power to tax the transfei of notes and bonds at their
business situs, no longer exists. As this Court has often
held, the burden rests upon him who assails a statute to

CAMPBELL v. GALENO CHEMICAL CO.
586

599

Syllabus.

establish its unconstitutionality. Upon this ambiguous
record it is for the appellant to show that the stock and
bonds subjected to the tax had no business situs within
thd taxing jurisdiction. See Corporation Commission of
Oklahoma v. Lowe, ante, p. 431; Toombs v. Citizens Bank
of Waynesboro, decided this day, post, p. 643.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS join

in this opinion.

CAMPBELL, FEDERAL PROHIBITION ADMINISTRATOR, ET AL. v. GALENO CHEMICAL COMPANY ET. AL.

SAME v. D. P. PAUL & COMPANY, INCORPORAfED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 443 and 444.

Argued April 25, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

1. A basic permit granted under § 4, Title II, of the Prohibition
Act, to manufacture articles such as toilet, medicinal and antiseptic preparations, containing intoxicating liquor but unfit for
beverage purposes, is not within the provision of § 6 that "permits to manufacture, prescribe, sell or transport liquor
shall expire on the 31st day of December next succeeding the
issuance thereof." P. 606.
2. Such a basic permit issued under § 4, to be in force until "revoked,
suspended or renewed. as provided by law or regulations," sufficiently complies with the provision of § 6 (assuming but not. deciding it to be applicable,) that every permit shall designate the
time when the permitted acts may be performed P. 608.
3. Such a basic permit issued under § 4 to remain in force "until
revoked, suspended or renewed as provided by law or regulations,"
is, not subject to be revoked by a subsequent regulation fixing-a
time limit for unexpired permits, but is revocable only for cause
as provided in §§ 5 and 9, upon notice and hearing, with a right
to judicial review. P. 609.

