ELIASON v. WILBORN.
Counsel for Parties.

ELIASON

ET AL.V. WILBORN ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.'

No. 347. Argued April 28, 29, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. Under the Illinois "Torrens" land registration Act, whqre the
owner of.registered land entrusts his certificate of title to another
person, and the latter, by presenting it, with a forged deed, secures
from the Registrar, without notice to the owner, a new certificate
of title in himself, and thereafter conveys to a bona fide purchaser,
purchasing in reliance upon that certificate, 'such innocent grantee,
even after being notified of the fraud, may obtain a valid certificate
of title in himself. Held, that, so construed, the Act does not deprive
the defrauded land-owner of property without due process of law,
since the bringing of the land within the provisions of the Act, and
subsequent purchases of it subject to those provisions, are purely
voluntary. P. 459.
2. As between two innocent persons, one of whom mmst suffer the
consequence of a breach of trust, the one who made it possible by
his act of confidence must bear the loss. P. 461.
352, affirmed.
3?5 Ill.

APPEAL from a judgment, of the Supreme Court of
Illinois affirming the dismissal of a petition. under. the
state Torrens Act for the cancellation of certain deeds
and certificates of title, and for other relief.
Mr. Matthias Cancannon, with whom Mr. Franklin E.
Vaughan was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Floyd E. Thompson, with whom Mr. Henry Jackson Darby was on the brief, for appellees. Messrs. J.
Scott Matthews and Nathan W. MacChesney also appeared for the appellees.
Mr. J. Scott Matthews, by special leave of Court, filed
a brief as amicus curio, on behalf of Clayton F. Smith,
Registrar of Titles of Cook County, Illinois.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. 6

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
The appellants had been holders of a certificate of title
under the Torrens Act of Illinois. As a result of negotiations they entrusted this certificate to one Napletone,
who is alleged to have presented it together with a forged
conveyance to himself to the Registrar and by those
means to have obtained from the Registrar a new certificate of title in Napletone, on May 19, 1926. Napletone
a few days later sold and conveyed to the Wilborns, appellees, whose good faith is not questioned. After the
Wilborns had bought but before a new certificate was
issued to them, they had notice of the appellants' claim
and the appellants notified the Registrar of the forgery
and demanded a cancellation of the deeds and certificates
to Napletone and the Wilborns and the issue of a certificate to themselves. The Registrar refused and this petition is brought to compelhim to do what the appellants
demand. It was dismissed on demurrer by the Circuit
Court of the State, and the judgment was affirmed by
the Supreme Court. 335 Ill. 352. The Supreme Court
construed the statutes as giving title to the Wilborns, who
purchased in reliance upon the certificate held by Napletone. Whether we are bound to or not we accept that
construction and its result. The petitioners appealed to
this Court on the ground that the statute, construed as
it was construed below, deprived the appellants of their
property without due process of law contrary to the
Constitution of the United States, by making, the certificate of title issued by the Registrar upon a forged deed
without notice to them conclusive against them.
The sections objected to are appended. They are as in
the original Act of 1897, except ยง 40, amended by the laws
1925, p. 250.*
* Section 40:

"The registered owner of any estate or interest in land brought
under this Act shall, except in cases of fraud to which he is a party,

ELIASON v. WILBORN.
457

459

Opinion of the Court.

The appellants seem to claim a constitutional right to
buy land that has been brought under the Torrens Act
free from the restrictions that that Act imposes. But
they have no right of any kind to buy it unless the present
owner assents, and if, es in this ease, the owner from whom
the appellants bought, offered and sold nothing except a
Torrens title we do not perceive how they can complain
that that is all that they got. Even if the restrictions were
of a kind that was open to constitutional objection, the
appellants bought knowing them and got what they paid
or of the person through whom he claims without valuable consideration paid in good faith, hold the same subject to the charges hereinabove set forth and also only to such estate, mortgages, liens, charges
and interests as may be noted in the last certificate of title in the
registrar's office and free from all others except:
(1). Any subsisting lease or agreement for a lease for a period not
exceeding five years, where there is actual occupation of the land
under the lease. The term lease shall include a verbal letting.
(2) General taxes for the calendar year in which the certificate of
title is issued, and special taxes or assessments which have not been
confirmed.
(3) Such right of appeal, writ of error, right to appear and contest the application, and action to make cbunterclaim as is allowed by
this Act."
Section 42:
"Except in case of fraud, and except as herein otherwise provided,
no person taking a transfer of-registered land, or any estate or interest therein, or of any charge upon the same, from the registered
owner shall be held to inquire into the circumstances under which or
the consideration for which such owner or any previous registered
owner was registered, or be affected with notice, actual or constructive, of any unregistered trust, lien, claim, demand or interest; and
the knowledge that an unregistered trust, lien, claim, demand or
interest is in existence shall not of itself be imputed as fraud."
Section 46:
"The bringing of land under this act shall imply an agreement
which shall run with the land that the same shall be subject to the
terms of the act and all amendments and alterations thereof. And
all dealings with Jand or any estate or interest therein, after the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

for, and knew that they were liable to-lose their title without having parted with it and without being heard. Even
if they had been the original holders under the Torrens
Act and had attempted to save their supposed rights by
protest the answer would be that they were under no
compulsion when they came into the system, that an
elaborate plan was offered of which the provisions objected to were an important part, and that they could
take it as it was or let it alone. There are plenty of
cases in which a man may lose his title when he does not
mean to. If he entrusts a check indorsed in blank to a
servant or friend he takes his chance. So when he entrusts goods to a bailee under some factors' acts that are
well known. So, more analogous to the present case, a
man may be deprived of a title by. one who has none;
as when an owner who has conveyed his property by a

deed not yet recorded executes a second deed to another
person who takes and records the later deed without notice
of the former. There are few constitutional rights that
may not be waived.
has been brought under this act, and all liens, incumbrances and
charges upon the same, subsequent to the first registration thereof,
shall be deemed to be subject to the terms of this act."
Section 47:
"A registered owner of land desiring tQ transfer his whole estate or
interest therein, or some distinct part or parcel thereof, or some
undivided interest therein, or to grant out of his estate an estate
for life or for a term of not less than ten years, may execute to the
intended transferee a deed or instrument of conveyance in any form
authorized by law for that purpose. And upon filing such deed or
other instrument in the registrar's office and surrendering to the
registrar the duplicate certificate of title, and upon its being made to
appear to the registrar that the transferee [sic] has the title or interest
proposed to be transferred and is entitled to make the conveyance,
and that the transferee has the right to have such estate or interest
transferred to bim, he shall make out and register as hereinbefore
provided a new certificate and also an owner's duplicate certifying
the title to the estate or interest in the land desired to be conveyed

ELIASON v. WILBORN.
457

Opinion of the Court.

But there is a narrower ground on which the appellants
must be denied their demand. The statute requires the
production of the outstanding certificate, as a condition
to the issue of a new one. The appellants saw fit to
entrust it to Napletone and they took the risk. They say
that according to the construction of the act adopted the
Registrar's certificate would have had the same effect even
if the old certificate had not been produced. But that,
if correct, is no answer. Presumably the Registrar will
do his duty, and if he does he will require the old certificate to be handed in. It does not justify the omission of
a precaution that probably would be sufficient, to point
out that a dishonest official could get around it. There
is not the slightest reason to suppose that Napletone
to be in the transferee, and shall note upon the original and duplicate
certificate the date of the transfer, the rlame of the transferee and
the volume and folium in which the new certificate is registcred, and
shall stamp across the original and surrendered duplicate certificate
the word ' canceled.'"
Section 54:
"A deed, mortgage, lease or other instrument purporting to convey, transfer, mortgage, lease, charge or otherwise deal with registered land, or any estate or interest therein, or charge upon the same,
other than a will or a lease not exceeding five years where the land is
in actual possession of the lessee or his assigns, shall take effect only
by way of contract between the parties thereto, and as authority to
the registrar to register the transfer, mortgage, lease, charge or other
dealing upon compliance with the terms of this act. On the completion of such registration, the land, estate, interest or charge shall
become transferred, mortgaged, leased, charged or dealt with according to the purport and terms of the :deed, mortgage, lease or other
instrument."
Section 58, (omitting immaterial parts):
"In the event of a duplicate certificate of title being lost, mislaid
or destroyed, the owner . . . may make affidavit . . . and the registrar, if satisfied as to the truth of such affidavit and the bona fides
of the transaction, shall issue to the owner a certified copy of the
original certificate . . . and such certified copy shall stand in the
place of and have like effect as the missing duplicate certificate."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

281 U. S.

would have got a certificate on which the Wilborns could
rely without the delivery of the old one by the appellants.
As between two innocent persons one of whom must suffer
the consequence of a breach of trust the one who made it
possible by his act of confidence must bear the loss.
Decree affirmed.
BARKER PAINTING COMPANY v. LOCAL NO. 734,
BROTHERHOOD OF PAINTERS, DECORATORS,

AND PAPERHANGERS OF AMERICA

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CTRCUIT.

No. 477.

Argued May 2, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.

A bill to enjoin a trade union from calling a rike is properly to
be dismissed as moot when, as the result of a preliminary injunction in the suit, the men have continued at work and the job
which the bill sought to protect has been completed. P. 463.
34 F. (2d) 3, affirmed.

280 U. S. 550, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of the
District Court dismissing the bill in a suit to enjoin two
trade unions and their agents from calling or fomenting
a strike. The petitioner here contended that wage rules
which the unions sought to enforce against it were unreasonable; that defendants were in a conspiracy illegal
at common law, and violative of the public policy of New
Jersey, and of the United States as evinced by the Sherman Act, and that the District Court had placed a construction on a New Jersey statute offensive to the Fourteen th Amendment. The opinion of the District Court
on interlocutory hearing is in 12 F. (2d) 945.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Merritt Lane for petitioner.
Mr. Morris Hillquit for respondents.

