ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. CRAIL.
52

Syllabus.

The evidence affecting the claim of Rowe is not reviewed, since, as already indicated, there is evidence
which, in the light of the statute as now interpreted, supports the concurrent action of the two courts below.
It is unnecessary to pass upon the contention, apparently first made here, that § 4529 does not apply to fishing vessels (see Notes to § 596, Tit. 46, U. S. C. A.), and
that the "Dola Lawson," although licensed for the coastwise trade, must be deemed excluded from the operation
of the Act because of her use as a fishing vessel.
In view of the unwarranted retention of the amount
awarded to petitioners, as wages, by that part of the
decree of the District Court from which no appeal was
taken, the costs in the Court of Appeals will be divided,
two-thirds to appellants and one-third to appellees, and
the decree below as so modified will be
Affirmed.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD OMPANY v.
CRAIL, DOING BUSINESS AS P. McCOY FUEL
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 75.

Argued January 10, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. Under the Cummins Amendment and the cqmmon law of compensatory damages, the amount which a coal dealer is entitled to
recover from a rail carrier for failure to make delivery of part of
a car-load shipment of coal, is the full actual loss at point of destination. P. 63.
2. Where the shortage was capable of replacement and was, in fact,
replaced in the course of the dealer's business from purchases made
in car-load lots at wholesale market price without added expense,
the recovery is measured by the wholesale price, including any
profit over cost at the mine plus freight, and not by the retail
market price, which includes costs of delivery to retuil customers

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioner.

281 U. S.

not incurred by the dealer and a retail profit not earned by him
by any contract of re-sale. Pp. 63-65.
31 F. (2d) 111, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 833, to review a judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment
of the District Court, 21 F. (2d) 831, against the Railroad
Company in an action for non-delivery of coal. See also
2 F. (2d) 287; 13 id. 459.
Mr. Edward C. Craig, with whom Messrs. Edwin C.
Brown and R. V. Fletcher were on the brief, for petitioner.
If respondent be paid the market value of the coal in
car at destination he will be compensated for loss -of
what he would have had if contract of shipment had been
performed. Chicago, M. & St. P: R. Co. v. McCaullDinsmore Co., 253 U. S.97; Hicks v. Guinness, 269 U. S.
71; Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245
U. S. 531; United States v. New River Collieries,262 U. S.
341, at pp. 343, 344.
The respondent did not buy this coal separate and apart
from its being a part of the carload of coal. He did not
buy any particular quantity. He bought a carload of
coal which happened to contain so much coal.
The measure of damages is the difference between the
market value of a car of coal delivered in accordance with
the contract and the market value of the car as it was in
fact delivered. Barry v. Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co., 56
Utah 69.
In cases of damage to a carload of, for example, perishables, where the carrier's breach consists of failure to
transport the shipment safely, the measure of damages
and rule of computation are generally stated by the courts
to be the difference between the fair, reasonable cTestination value of the 6arload in the condition in which it
should have been delivered, i. e., undamaged, and the fair,

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. CRAIL.
57

Argument for Respondents.

reasonable destination value of the carload in the condition in which it was delivered. In such cases plaintiff's
"full actual loss, damage or injury" is invariably and
properly computed by taking the difference between carload values, as such. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Texas
Packing Co., 244 U. S. 31, 37; New York, L. E. & TV. R.
Co. v. Estill, 147 U. S. 591, 616-7; Peterson v. Case, 21
Fed. 885, 891.
The fundamental thing in all breach of contract cases
is not that plaintiff be paid the value of what is not delivered or lost, ,but-that he be made whole. The primary
thing is compensation to him for his loss; the secondary
thing is the value of what was lost. The latter is only
one method of arriving at the former.
Respondent if allowed to recover more than the market value of the coal in the car will be more than compensated for the loss suffered.
This case is but a case of a breach of contract and the
damages are those which will compensate for the "full
actual loss, damage or injury to such property." Globe
Refining Co. v. Landa Cotton Oil Co., 190 U. S. 540;
Wehle v. Haviland, 69 N. Y. 448, 451.
See the cases cited in the dissenting opinion below and
in the case of Brown Coal Co. v. Illinois Cent. R. Co.,
196 Iowa 562.
Mr. Stanley B. Houck, with whom Mr. W. Yale Smiley
was on the brief, for respondents.
The measure of damages for the loss in
transit of a part
of a shipment is the value of what has been lost at-the
time and place at which it should have been delivered,
with interest, less the transportation charges, if they have
not been paid. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. McCaullDinsmore Co., 253 U. S. 97; Leominster Fuel Co. v. New
York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 258 Mass. 149; Crutchfield &
Woolfolk v. Hines, 239 Mass. 84; Woonsocket M. & P.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondents.

281 U. S.

Co. v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 239 Mass. 211;
Hoover & Co. v. Denver & R. G. V. R. Co., 17 F. (2d)
881; Allen v. Adams Express Co., 77 Pa. Super. Ct. 174;
Atlantic Coast Line Ry. Co. v. Roe (Fla.), 118 So. 155.
If the commodity lost in transit be a staple which, like
coal, is produced for sale and consumption', not for retention and long use, the only inquiry to be made in reckoning its value is its worth as an article of sale. If it be
shown that at the destination, at the time the remainder
of the shipment arrived there, there was a market in
which like coal in like volume was openly bought and
sold, the price current in such market will be regarded
as its fair market value and likewise the measure of just
coriipensation for its loss. Cliquot's Champagne, 3 Wall.
114, 125, 142; Muser v. Magone, 155 U. S. 240, 249; Murray v. Stanton, 99 Mass. 348; Stanford v. Peck, 63 Conn.
486, 493; United States v. New River Collieries Co., 262
U. S. 341.
The market value at destination of the quantity of coal
lost is the amount it would have been necessary for the
shipper to pay in the open market, at the time and place
of delivery, for such a quantity and kind of coal as the
carrier failed to deliver as agreed. TVendnagel v. Houston, 155 Ill. App. 664; United States v. New River Collieries Co., supra.
There can be no quibble about the statutory liability
being forthe full, actual loss, damage or injury. Neither
can there be any real doubt that where the property lost
has a readily ascertainable market value at the proper
time and place, that value is the measure of full, actual
loss, damage, or injury. Such is the holding of this court
in United States v. New River Collieries Co., supra. In
that case also, this court answers petitioner's argument
about the justness of a recovery at $13.00 per ton by
holding that "the lower courtsrightly held that market

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. CRAIL.
57

Argument for Respondents.

prices prevaijing at the times and place of the taking
constitute just compensation."
Where the law has established a rule for measuring
damage for breach of contract, such as loss in transit by
a carrier, the parties are conclusively presumed to contemplate a measurement of such a loss by that rule.
1 Sedgwick on Damages (9th ed.) § 40, p. 45; 1 Sutherland
on Damages (4th ed.), § 105, p. 367; Brown v. Chicago,
M. & St. P. Ry.Co., 54 Wis. 342.
In determining the value of the commodity which has
been lost, the inquiry is limited to the time when the
shipment from which- the loss occurred was delivered at
destination. It is improper to inquire into later events
such as whether plaintiff in error was under any necessity
of making replacement, or did in fact replace, or that he
was a, coal dealer, making purchases in carload lots from
time to time as his hecessity required, which purchases
included coal of the kind and quality here in question,
of which, on the arrival of the carload from which the
loss occurred, he had sufficient for his needs until the
arrival of the next carload of the same kind which should
be purchased, etc., Stone v. Codman, 15 Pick. (Mass.)
297, 300; Olds v. Mapes-Reeve Construction Co., 177
Mass. 41, 44; Southern Pac. Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co.,
245 U. S. 531, 534.
The simple market value, not its component parts nor
the sources from which it is derived nor its other concomitants, shall measure such damages. The Rossend
Castle, 30 Fed. 462; The Erroe, 17 Blatchf. (C. C.) 16,
Fed. Cas. 4522; Moelring v. Smith, 7 Ind. App. 451;
Waggoner Undertaking Co. v. Jones (Mo.), 114 S. W.
1049.
Messrs. Frederic D. McKenney, W. F. West, S. R.
Prince,A. W. Blackman, F. M. Rivinus, CharlesE. Miller,

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

M. K. Rothschild, W. E. Kay, F. G. Dorety, George A.
Kingsley, C. W. Wright, E. E. McInnes and Joseph M.
Bryson, by special leave of Court, filed a statement and
suggestions in support of the petition for certiorari, on
behalf of certain railroad companies, as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case certiorari was granted May 27, 1929, to
review a ruling of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit upon the measure of damages recoverable in a
suit brought under the Cummins Amendment of March 4,
1915, 38 Stat. 1197, as amended 41 Stat. 494 [49 U. S. C.,
§ 20(11),] against a rail carrier for failure to deliver a
part of an interstate shipment of coal.
Respondent, plaintiff below, a coal dealer in Minneapolis, purchased, while in transit, a carload of coal weighing at shipment 88,700 pounds. On delivery at destination, the respondent's industrial siding, there was a
shortage of 5,500 pounds. At the time of arrival, respondent had not resold any of the coal. It was intended to
be, and was, added to his stock of coal for resale, but the
shortage did not interfere with the maintenance of his
usual stock. He lost no sales by reason of it, and purchased no coal to replace the shortage, except in carload
lots. In the course of his business, respondent could and
did, both before and after the present shipment, purchase
coal of like quality in carload lots of 60,000 pounds or
more, delivered at his siding, at $5.50 per ton, plus freight.
The market price in Minneapolis for like coal sold at retail in less than carload lots was $13.00 per ton, including
$3.30 freight.
The case was twice tried'. On the first trial, the District
Court gave judgment for the wholesale value of the coal
not delivered. 2 F. (2d) 287. The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment, holding that it should have been for
the retail value of the coal. 13 F. (2d) 459. Ppon

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. CRAIL.
57

Opinion of the Court.

retrial, the District Court gave judgment accordingly, 21
F. (2d) 831, which was affirmed below. 31 F. (2d) 111.
.By the Cummins Amendment the holder of a bill of
lading issued for an interstate rail shipment is entitled to
recover for failure to make delivery of any part of the
shipment without legal excuse, "the full actual loss,
damage or injury to such property" at point of destination. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore
Co., 253 U. S. 97.
It is not denied that a recovery measured by the wholesale market price of the coal would fully compensate the
respondent, or that the retail price, taken as the measure
of the recovery allowed below, includes costs of delivery
to retail consumers which respondent did not incur, and
a retail profit which he had not earned by any contract
of resale. But respondent contends, as was held below,
that the established measure of damage for non-delivery
of a shipment of merchandise is the sum required to
replace the exact amount of the shortage at the stipulated
time and place of delivery, which, in this case, would be
its retail value, and that convenience and the necessity
for a uniform rule require its application here.
This contention ignores the basic principle underlying
common law remedies that they shall afford only compensation for the injury suffered, Milwaukee & St. Paul R.-,
Co. v. Arms, 91 U. S.489, 492; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.
Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore Co., supra, 100; Robinson v.
Harman,1 Exch. 850, 855; Sedgwick, Damages (9th Ed.),
25; Sutherland, Damages (4th Ed.,) § 12; Williston on
Contracts, § 1338, and leaves out of account.the language
of the amendment, which likewise gives only a right of
recovery for "actual loss." The rule urged by respondents was applied below in literal accordance ivith its conventional statement. As so stated, when applied to cases
as they usually arise, it is a convenient and. accurate
method of arriving at an amount of recovery which is

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

compensatory. As so stated, it would have been applicable here if there had been a failure to deliver the entire
carload of coal, since the wholesale price, at which a full
carload could have been procured at point of destination,
would have afforded full compensation, Chicago, M. &
St. P. Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore Co., supra; Central
of Georgia Ry. Co. v. American Coal Co., 28 Ga. App. 95;
Wendnagel v. Houston, 155 Ill. App. 664; Lake Erie, etc.
R. R. Co. v. Frantz, 85 Ind. App. 569; Cutting v. Grand
Trunk Ry., 13 Allen 381; Crutchfield & Woolfolk v.
DirectorGeneral of R. R., 239 Mass. 84; Smith v. N. Y. 0.
& Western Ry. Co., 119 Misc. Rep. (N. Y.)' 506; Yazoo
& M. V. R. Co. v., Delta Grocer Co., 134 Miss. 846;
Chicago, R I. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Broe, 16 Okla. 25; Roth
Coal Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., 142 Tenn. 52;
Quanah A. & P. Co. v. Novitt, 199 S. W. 496 (Tex. Civ.
App.), or, in some circumstances, if respondent had been
under any constraint to purchase less than a carload lot
to repair his loss or carry on his business, for in that event
the measure of his loss would have been the retail market
cost of the necessary replacement. Haskell v. Hunter, 23
Mich. 305, 309. But in the actual circumstances the cost
of replacing the exact shortage at retail price was not the
measure of the loss, since it was capable of replacement
and was, in fact, replaced in the course of respondent's
business from purchases made in carload lots at wholesale market price without added expense.
There is no greater inconvenience in the application of
the one standard of value than the other and we perceive
no advantage to be gained from an adherence to a rigid
uniformity, which would justify sacrificing the reason of
the rule, to its letter. The test of market value is at best
but a convenient means of getting at the loss suffered.
It may be discarded and other more accurate means resorted to if, for special reasons, it is not exact or otherwise

ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO. v. CRAIL.
57

Opinion of the Court.

not applicable. See Wilmoth v. Hamilton, 127 Fed. 48,
51; Theiss v. Weiss, 166 Pa. St. 9, 19; Pittsburg Sheet
Mfg. Co. v. West Penn Sheet Steel Co., 201 Pa. St. 150;
Williston on Contracts, §§ 1384, 1385. In the absence of
special circumstances, the damage for shortage in delivery
by the seller of fungible goods sold by quantity is measured by the bulk price rather than the price for smaller
quantities, both at common law, see Morgan v. Gath, 3 H.
& C. 748; Avery v. -Wilson, 81 N. Y. 341, and under § 44
of the Uniform Sales Act. Likewise, we think that the
wholesale market price is to be preferred as a test over the
retail when in circumstances like the present, it is clearly
the more accurate measure, Brown Coal Co. v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 196 Iowa 562; see State v. Smith, 31
Mo. 566; Wendnagel v. Houston, supra, 666, 667; Wpod
Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 320 Ill.
341. Compare HeidritterLumber Co. v. Central R. R. of
N. J., 100 N. J. Law, 402, Leominster Fuel Co. v. New
York, N. H. & H. Ry. Co., 258 Mass. 149, cited as supporting the conclusion of the court below In these cases
it does not clearly appear whether the consignee suffered
special damage by reason of the shortage, measured by
the retail price, or whether he did or could replace it at
the wholesale price in the ordinary course of business.
The court below thought that the fact that the award
to respondent of the expense and profit, included in the
retail price to consumers, did not militate against the.
rule it applied, for the reason that the wholesale price, as
is often the case where market price is the measure of loss,
likewise included a profit over mine cost plus freight.
But respondent had done every act and incurred every expense prerequisite to procuring delivery at destination.
Any profit included in its market value at the stipulated
time and place of arrival was, therefore, appropriately
included in the measure of his loss. In this respect it is
98234°-30----5

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
281 U. S.

Syllabus.

distinguishable. from the expense and prospective profit
not actually incurred or earned by respondent, represented
by the retail price. See Central of Georgia R. R. Co. v.
American Coal Co., supra; Yazoo & M. V. R. Co. v.
Delta Grocer Co., supra, 146. Compare Cincinnati,N. 0.
& T. P. Ry. Co. v. Hansford, 125 Ky. 37; Smith v. N. Y.
0. & Western Ry. Co., supra; Quanah A. & P. Co. v.
Novitt, supra.
Reversed.
CARLEY & HAMILTON, INC., ET AL. v. SNOOK,
CHIEF OF THE DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLES,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
COTTINGHAM

ET AL.

v. SAME.

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 86 and 267.

Submitted January 9, 1930.-Decided
February 24, 1930.

1. Fees exacted y the California Motor Vehicle Act for the registration of specified classes of motor vehicles u-ed for intrastate transportation of passengers for hire and of property, the revenue from
which fees is applied by the Act to the support of the State
Division of Motor Vehicles and to the construction and maintenance of public roads, held exactions made in the exercise of
the state taxing power for the privilege of operating such vehicles
over public highways, expended for state purposes, and not in
conflict with the due process clause of. the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 71.
2. There is nothing in the Federal Constitution which requires a State
to apply such fees, for the benefit of those who pay them. P. 72.
3. The proposition that, although the fees' are not per se dispioportionate to the privilege of operating over all the highways of the
State, owners are entitled to licenses limiting the operation of their
motor vehicles to a few highways which they wish to use (e. g. to
streets in particular cities) upon payment of correspondingly reduced fees, is not supported by any constitutional principle. P. 72.

