670

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

PANAMA MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY v.
VARGAS.
.CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 425. Argued April 23, 24, 1930X-Decided June 2, 1930.
Where the District Court gave a decree in admiralty for damages on
doubtful and conflicting evidence, without delivering an opinion
or making any finding of fact other than might be implied in the
decree, and affirmance by the Court of Appeals was based solely
upon the ground that appellate courts, in the absence of plain
error, refuse to review decisions of trial courts upon conflicting
testimony taken before them, this Court, being unable to determine from the record upon what premise of fact ox law the decree
of the District Court was based, held that both decrees below
should be vacated and the case remanded to the District Court
with a direction to make specific findings of fact, retrying the case
if necessary, and to take such further proceedings as might be in
conformity with law. P. 671.
33 F. (2d) 894, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 546, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a recovery of damages
for an assault alleged to have been committed upon a
passenger aboard ship by a ship's steward.

Mr. Thomas A. Thacher with whom Messrs. Harrison
A. Jones and W. Kevin Casey were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. H. W. Hutton for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a suit in admiralty brought in the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of California against a company owning and operating an American steamship as a common carrier, between ports in

PANAMA MAIL S. S. CO. v. VARGAS.
670

Opinion of the Court.

Central America and the port of San Francisco, to recover damages for an alleged assault constituting rape
committed by an employee of the ship on a young woman
while being carried thereon as a passenger. The plaintiff
was given a decree, which the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed, 33 F. (2d) 894; and the case is here on certiorari.
The District Court delivered no opinion and made no
findings of fact other than such as may be implied from
the decree. The Circuit Court of Appeals described the
evidence as conflicting, the plaintiff's case as not free
from suspicion, and the defense as weak; and it then
affirmed the decree on the stated ground that appellate
courts refuse to review decisions of trial courts based
on conflicting testimony taken before them, unless the
record discloses some plain error of fact or some misapplication of the law.
Thus we have a case in which the evidence is conflicting-pronouncedly so according to the argument in
this Court-and in which there has been no distinct finding of the facts by the court primarily charged with their
determination. No doubt a finding of some kind is to be
implied from the decree-a finding that would suffice as
against a collateral attack. But the present attack is
direct, not collateral. It is made in an appellate proceeding where the review, unlike that on a writ of error
at law, extends to the findings of fact as well as to the
rulings on questions of law. The decree does not show on
what premise of fact it was given, but only that it was
given on some premise which in the court's opinion entitled the plaintiff to the decree. The court may have
regarded the evidence as showing seduction rTather than
rape and may have given the decree on the theory that
the defendant was equally liable in either case. In the
absence of distinct findings an appellate court cannot
know how the questions of fact were resolved. The situation is much like that described in the following extract

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

from Lawson v. United States Mining Co., 207 U. S.
1,11:
"It is insisted that the findings of the Circuit Court
should have bound and concluded the Court of Appeals
upon questions of fact. The difficulty with this contention is that there is nothing to show what the Circuit
Court found to be the facts. Whatever might have been
suggested by the course of the argument at the hearing,
the comments of the court upon such argument, or in
announcing its decision, there is nothing in the record to
indicate whether its decision was based upon a question
of fact or a matter of law. The record only contains its
decree, dismissing the bill. All else is a matter of surmise, except as may be inferred from the allegations of
the pleadings and the scope of the testimony While it is
apparent that the Circuit Court must have based its
decision upon one of two or three grounds, yet upon
which it is not certain."
And see City of New York, 54 Fed. 181.
Formerly it was the general practice in suits in admiralty to make distinct findings on the issues of fact ;
and while that practice placed an added duty on trial
judges it was attended with undoubted advantages, in
that it made for greater precision in the disposal of such
suits in the trial courts and facilitated the presentation
and consideration of appeals from decrees therein.
In the present case we think the situation requires that
the decrees in both courts below be vacated and the case
remanded to the District Court with a direction to make
specific findings of fact and to take such further proceedings as may be in conformity with law.
If the judge who presided at the trial and rendered the
decree is prepared to make such findings without a further trial, that -course may be taken; otherwise the case
should be retried.
Decrees vacated and cause remanded for further
proceeding in conformity with this opinion.

