LUCAS v. EARL.
Argument for Respondent.

109

panying maps, now in the clerk's hands, save that he shall
retain twenty copies of each for purposes of certification
and other needs that may arise in his office.
LUCAS, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. EARL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 99. Argued March 3, 1930.-Decided March 17, 1930.
Under the Revenue Act of 1918, which taxes the income of every
individual, including "income derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal service . . . of whatever kind ard in

whatever form paid," the income of a husband by way of salary
and attorney's fees is taxable to him notwithstanding that by a
contract between him and his wife, assumed to be valid in California where they reside, all their several earnings, including salaries
and fees, are to be received, held and owned by both as joint
tenants. P. 113.
30 F. (2d) 898, reversed.

280 U. S. 538, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a decision of the
Board of Tax Appeals upholding a tax upon the respondent's income.
CERTIORARI,

Solicitor General Hughes, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist and Messrs. Millar E. McGilchrist, Claude R. Branch, Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Warren Olney, Jr., with whom Messrs. J. M. Mannon, Jr., Robert L. Lipman and Henry D. Costigan were
on the brief, for respondent.
The agreement is valid under the law of California.
Wren v. Wren, 100 Cal. 276; Kaltschmidt v. Weber, 145
Cal. 596; Perkins v. Sunset, etc., Company, 155 Cal. 712;

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondent.

281 U. S.

Moody v. Southern Pacific Co., 167 Cal. 786; Cullen v.
Bisbee, 68 Cal. 695.
It necessarily follows from the manner in which the
agreement operates under the California law that the income of both parties, including the personal earnings of
both, is to be taxed as the joint income of both, and not
as community property.
The basic principle of the income tax law is that it is.
a tax on income beneficia'lly received. Applying this
principle the income in this case must be taxed as the
joint income of the respondent and his wife. United
States v. Robbins, 269 U. S; 315; see Old Colony Trust
Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of California hold
that such agreements do not operate by way of assignment
but by way of establishing the incidents of property. Even
if it were true that the agreement operated by way of an
equitable assignment and there was at the moment of the
receipt of the property an instant of time when the husband held it as exclusively his own, he would so hold it
only as a naked trustee. The basic purpose of the income
tax law is to tax income beneficially received. Income
received as a trustee is taxable as income of the beneficiary.
O'Malley-Keyes v. Eaton, 24 F. (2d) 436; Young v.
Guichtel, 28 F. (2d) 789; Bowers v. New York Trust Co.,
9 F. (2d) 548.
Under the community property system, in a case where
husband and wife agree that the latter's earnings are to be
hqr separate property, the earnings of the wife are to be
taxed as part of her income and not as a part of her husband's. Louis Gassner, 4 B. T. A. 1071; E. C. Busche, 10
B. T. A. 1345; FrancisKrull, 10 B. T. A. 1096; Allen Harris, 10 B. T. A. 1374.
The claim that saiarez, wages and compensation for
personal services are to be taxed as an entirety and therefore must be returned by the individual who has per-

LUCAS v. EARL.
Opinion of the Court.

111

formed the services which produced the gain, is without
support either in the language of the Act or in the decisions of the courts construing it. Not only this, but it is
directly opposed to provisions of the Act and to regulations of the Treasury Department which either prescribe
or permit that compensation for personal services be not
taxed as an entirety and be not returned by the individual
performing the services.
It is to be noted that by the language of the Act it is
not "salaries, wages or compensation for personal service" that are to be included in gross income. That which
is to be included is " gains, profits and income derived "
from salaries, wages or compensation for personal service.
Salaries, wages or compensation for personal service are
not to be taxed as an entirety unless in their entirety they
are gains, profits and income. Since, also, it is the gain,
profit or income to the individual that is to be taxed, it
would seem plain that it is only the amount of such salaries, wages or compensation as is gain, profit or income
to the individual, that is, such amount as the individual
beneficially receives, for which he is to be taxed.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents the question whether the respondent,
Earl, could be taxed for the whole of the salary and attorney's fees earned by him in the years 1920 and 1921,
or should be taxed for only a half of them in view of a
contract with his wife which we shall mention. The
Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the Board of Tax
Appeals imposed a tax upon the whole, but their decision
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 30 F. (2d)
898. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
By the contract, made in 1901, Earl and his wife agreed
"that any property either of us now has or may hereafter
98234 -30--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

acquire ...
in any way, either by earnings (including
salaries, fees, etc.), or any rights by contract or otherwise, during the existence of our marriage, or which we
or either of us may receive by gift, bequest, devise, or inheritance, and all the proceeds, issues, and profits of any
and all such property shall be treated and considered and
hereby is declared to be received, held, taken, and owned
by us as joint tenants, and not otherwise, with the right
of survivorship." The validity of the contract is not
questioned, and we assume it to be unquestionable under
the law of the State of California, in which the parties
lived. Nevertheless we are of opinion that the Commissioner and Board of Tax Appeals were right.
The Revenue Act of 1918 approved February 24, 1919,
c. 18, §§210, 211, 212 (a), 213 (a), 40 Stat. 1057, 1062,1064,
1065, imposes a tax upon the net income of every individual including " income derived from salaries, wages, or
compensation for personal service . . . of whatever kind
and in whatever form paid," § 213 (a). The provisions
of the Revenue Act of 1921, c. 1.36, 42 Stat. 227, in sections bearing the same numbers are similar to those of
the above. A very forcible argument is presented to the
effect that the statute seeks to tax only income beneficially
received, and that taking the question more technically
the salary and fees became the joint property of Earl and
his wife or. the very first instant on which they were received. We well might hesitate upon the latter proposition, because however the matter might stand between
husband and wife he was the only party to the contracts
by which the salary and fees were earned, and it is somewhat hard to say that the last step in the performance
of those contracts could be taken by anyone but himself
alone. But this case is not to be decided by attenuated
subtleties. It turns on the import and reasonable construction of the taxing act. There is no doubt that the
statute could tax salaries to those who earned them and

LUCAS v. EARL.

115

Opinion of the Court.

111

provide that the tax could not be escaped by anticipatory
arrangements and contracts however skilfully devised to
prevent the salary when paid from vesting even for a second in the man who earned it. That seems to us the
import of the statute before us and we think that no distinction can be taken according to the motives leading to
the arrangement by which the fruits are attributed to a
different tree from that on which they grew.
Judgment reversed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in this case.

LUCAS, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. OX FIBRE BRUSH COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 250.

Argued February 28, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. Reasonable compensation allowed by the board of directors of a
corporation to its officers in addition to their salaries, for valuable
services rendered by them to the corporation, held deductible in
computing the net income of the corporation, under § 234 (a)' (1)
of the Revenue Act of 1918, which permits deduction of "All the
ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year in carrying on any trade or business, including a reasonable allowance for salaries or other compensation for personal services actually rendered." P. 117.
2. Such additional compensation, though made for services rendered
in previous years, is deductible from the income of the taxable year
in which it was allowed and paid if there was no prior agreement
or legal obligation to pay it. P. 119.
3. Section 212 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1918, which provides that
the net income shall be computed upon the basis of the taxpayer's
accounting period in accordance with the method of accounting
regularly employed in keeping the taxpayer's books, but that if such
method does not clearly reflect the income, the computation shall
be made upon such basis and in such manner as in the opinion of
the Commissioner does clearly reflect the income, does not justify

