642

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

ALPHA STEAMSHIP CORPORATION

281 U. S.
ET AL.

v. CAIN.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 457.

Argued April 29, 30, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

An assault on a seaman by a superior authorized to direct his work
and who committed the assault for the purpose of reprimanding
him for tardiness and compelling him to work, held, negligence of
the employer within the meaning of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, and actionable against the employer under that Act
as made applicable by the Merchant Marine Act. Jamison v.
Encarnacion, ante, p. 635.
35 F. (2d) 717, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 549, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Cou'rt of Appeals aiffirming a recovery by a seaman
for injuries resulting from an assault committed upon him
by a superior aboard ship.

Mr. Carver W. Wolfe for petitioners.
Mr. Vine H. Smith, with whom Messrs. Thomas J. Cuf,
Milton Pinkus, and Dix W. Noel were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent was a seaman employed as a fireman on
the American steamship Alpha navigating the high seas.
The corporation petitioner owned and operated the vessel
and the other petitioners were in possession of her.
Respondent sued petitioners in the federal court for the
Southern District of New York to recover damages for
personal injuries caused by an assault upon him by his
superior, one Jackson, an assistant engineer in charge of
the engine room. The complaint charged and the eviLdence was sufficient to warrant a finding that Jackson was
authorized by defendants to direct plaintiff about his

TOOMBS v. CITIZENS BANK.
642

Syllabus.

work and that, for the purpose of reprimanding him for
tardiness and compelling him to work, Jackson struck
plaintiff with a wrench and seriously injured him. That
was the basis of fact upon which the jury under the
charge of the court was authorized to find for plaintiff.
The jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff for
$12,000 and the judgment thereon was affirmed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
That court expressed th6 opinion, 35 F. (2d) 717, 721,
that § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act, 46 U. S. C., § 688,
and the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 45 U. S. C.,
§§ 51-59, did not apply and held defendants liable under
the general maritime law without regard to these Acts.
But in Jamison v. Encarnacion,decided this day, ante, p.
635, we hold that such an assault is negligence within the
meaning of § 1 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
which is made available to seamen by § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act. The ruling in that case controls in
this. We need not examine the grounds upon which the
Circuit Court of Appeals put its decision..
Judgment affirmed.
TOOMBS v. CITIZENS BANK OF WAYNESBORO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 485.

Submitted April 28, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

1. A Georgia statute provides that, upon being required by the
Superintendent of Banks to make good an impairment of capital
by an assessment upon stockholders, the officers and directors of
a bank shall call a special meeting of the stockholders for the purpose
of making such assessment. In a case from the state court in
which a stockholder challenged an assessment, under the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, held that, in the
absence of a controlling decision by the state court, it can not
be assumed either that notice of the stockholders' meeting at which

