UNITED STATES v. UPDIKE.
479

489

Syllabus.

decree is affirmed without prejudice to the right, if any,
of the Pittsburgh to enjoin in a proper proceeding action
by the Wheeling.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. UPDIKE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 340. Argued April 15, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. Under §§ 278 (d) and 280 of the Revenue Act of 1926, a suit in
equity against stockholders of a dissolved corporation to charge
them, as distributees of its assets, with the amount of a tax
assessed against the corporation, is a proceeding to collect the tax
and is barred if not brought within six years after the assessment.
P. 492.
2. Where, under the Revenue Act of 1926 in a " no return" case, an
assessment, which, under § 278 (a), may be made at any time, has
in fact been made, a proceeding to collect must be begun within
six years thereafter; but where there has been no assessment, the
proceeding may be begun at any time. P. 494.
3. The provision of § 278 (d) of the Revenue -Act of 1926, that,
"Where the assessment . . . has been made . . . within
the statutory period of limitation properly applivable thereto, such
tax may be collected . . . by a proceeding in court
but only if begun (1) within six years after the assessment of the
tax," applies to an assessment in 1920 of 1917 taxes, notwithstanding that in 1920 when the assessment was made, there was, and had
been, no provision of law which in any form limited the time for
assessing or collecting taxes. P. 495.
4. The saving clause, "within the statutory period of limitation
properly applicable thereto," in § 278 (d) of the Revenue Act of
1926, was inserted solely for the protection of the taxpayer; that is
to say, in order to preclude collection of the tax even within six
years after the assessment, if that assessment, when made, was
barred by the applicable statutory limitation. P. 496.
5. Taxing acts, including provisions of limitation embodied therein,
are to be construed liberally in favor of the taxpayer. Id.
32,F. (2d) 1, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI,

281 U. S.

280 U. S. 543, to review a decree of the

Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a decree of the
District Court, 25 F. (2d) 746, against the.United States
in a suit brought against stockholders of a dissolved corporation to recover a tax.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Mr. Sewall Key and Helen R.,Carloss, Special Assistants
to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States.
Messrs. Francis A. Brogan and Alfred G. Ellick, with
whom Messrs. Anan Raymond and Dana B. Van Dusen
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR..JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Prior to the passage of the Revenue Act of 1917, the
Updike Grain Company, a Nebraska corporation, filed its
income tax and excess profits tax returns for the eleven
months ending June 30, 1917, that being the end of the
fiscal year which the corporation had selected as its annual
period for federal taxation. The returns in form complied with the provisions of the law then in force, and
were correct in point of fact. The full amount of the tax,
as shown by the returns, was paid. In August, 1917, the
corporation was lawfully dissolved and its assets, after
payment of all debts, were distributed among its stockholders. Shortly after the passage of the Revenue Act
of October 3, 1917, which, among other changes, increased
the rate of taxation, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue issued a regulation providing that corporations which
had dissolved in 1917 prior to the date of that act, should
file tax returns, in accordance with its provisions for the
period preceding dissolution. A blank form for that purpose was mailed to the corporation, but was returned by

UNITED STATES v. UPDIKE.
489

Opinion of the Court.

its former secretary unexecuted with the information that
the corporation, prior to its dissolution, had filed tax
returns and paid all taxes due under existing laws.
In October, 1918, a revenue agent examined the books
of the corporation and made a return in regular form,
upon which, in January, 1920, additional income and
excess profits taxes were assessed for the period ending
June 30, 1917. The return so made wes not verified or
signed in behalf of the corporation, or otherwise. The
present suit to recover the amount was brought against
respondents, stockholders of the corporation, in 1927,
more than seven years after the -assessment. The theory
upon which the suit was begun and prosecuted is, that the
assets of the corporation distributed to the stockholders,
to the extent of the additional taxes, became trust funds
received to the use of the United States. The federal
district court entered a decree dismissing the bill. 25 F.
(2d) 746. Upon appeal the circuit court of appeals
affirmed the decree upon the ground that the suit was
barred by the provisions of § 278 of the Revenue Act of
1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 59; U. S. C. Supp., Title 26, §§ 1058,
1060, 1061. 32 F. (2d) 1.
The principal question presented here, and the only
one we need consider, is whether the suit, having been
brought more than six years after the assessment, was
barred by the provisions of § 278 quoted below.
"(a) In the case . .. of a failure to file a return the
tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at
any time.

"(d) Where the assessment

has been made (whether
before or after the enactment of this Act) within the
statutory period of limitation properly applicable thereto,
such tax may be collected by distraint or by a proceeding
..

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

in court (begun before or after the enactment of this
Act), but only if begun (1) within six years after the
assessment of the tax, . . ." U. S. C. Supp., Title 26,
§§ 1058, 1061.
In accordance with the claim of the government the court
below held that there was a failure to file a return within
the meaning of paragraph (a). See also Updike v. United
States, 8 F. (2d) 913. We assume without deciding
the correctness of that view and consider the case
accordingly.
The government contends-(1) that § 278 (d) relates
only to proceedings to collect taxes qua taxes, and
not to suits in equity to reccver " trust funds," and that
the present suit is of the latter character; but (2) that
the present case is not within the provisions of that section even if a suit against the stockholders be controlled
by the same rule as a proceeding against the corporation
itself.
First. The first point turns upon the question whether
this is a proceeding to collect a tax, as to which it is
said that the provision of § 278(d) that " such tax may
be collected . . .by a proceeding in court," etc., refers
only to a direct proceeding against the taxpayer; and
that this view is borne out by a consideration of § 280
(c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 61; U. S. C. Supp., Title 26, § 1069),*
*

Sec. 280. (a) The amounts of the following liabilities shall, ex-

cept as hereinafter in this section provided, be assessed, collected,
and paid in the same manner and subject to the same provisions and
limitations as in the case of a deficiency in a tax imposed by this title
(including the provisions in case of delinquency in payment after
notice and demand, the provisions authorizing distraint and proceedings in court for collection, and the provisions prohibiting claims
and suits for refunds):
(1) The liability, at law or in equity, of a transferee of property of
a taxpayer, in respect of the tax (including interest, additional
amounts, and additions to the tax provided by law) imposed upon

UNITED STATES v. UPDIKE.
489

493

Opinion of the Court.

which prescribes a mode of procedure against transferees
of the property of a taxpayer.
The contention is that by the language of §280 Congress has clearly differentiated between taxpayers and
-transferees by referring to the liability of the latter as
"the liability at law or in equity, of a transferee of property of a taxpayer, in respect of the tax . . . imposed
upon the taxpayer," and then, apparently realizing that
the limitation periods as to the collection of taxes qua
taxes would have no application to the remedy against
transferees, creating a distinct period of limitation in
respect thereof.
This view of the statute is not admissible. The'plain
words of § 280(a) are, that, "except as hereinafter in this
section provided," the liability of the transferee shall be
"assessed, collected, and paid" subject, among other
things, to the same "provisions and limitations as in
the case of a deficiency in a tax imposed by this title
the taxpayer by this title or by any prior income, excess-profits, or.
war-profits tax Act.
(b) The period of limitation for assessment of any such liability
of a transferee or fiduciary shall be as folloAvs:
(1) Within one year after the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer; or
(2) If the period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer
expired before the enactment of this Act but assessment against the
taxpayer was made within such period-then within six years after
the making of such assessment against the taxpayer, but in no case
later than one year after the enactment of this Act.
(c) For the purposes of this section, if the taxpayer is deceased,
or in the case of a corporation, has terminated its existence, the
period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer shall be the
period that would be in effect had the death. or termination of
existence not occurred.

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

(including . . . the provisions authorizing ... proceedings in court for collection. . .)." Nothing thereinafter
provided in that section affects the application to the
present case of these general words in respect of limitat.ions, for, while the succeeding paragraphs contain pro-'
visions of limitation in respect of assessment, they contain
none in respect of collection. It seems plain enough,
without stopping to cite authority, that the present suit,
though not against the corporation but against its transferees to subject assets in their hands to the payment of
the tax, is in every real sense a proceeding in court to
collect a tax. The tax imposed upon the corporation is
the basis of the liability, whether sought to be enforced
directly against the corporation or by suit against its
transferees. The aim in the one case, as in the other, is
to enforce a tax liability; and the eLLttct of the language
above quoted from § 280 is to read into that section, and
make applicable to the transferee equally with the original
taxpayer, the provision of § 278(d) in relation to the
period of limitation for the collection of a tax. Indeed,
when used to connote payment of a tax, it puts no undue
strain upon the word "taxpayer" to bring within its
meaning that person whose property, being impressed
with a trust to that end, is subjected to the burden.
Certainly it would be hard to convince such a person
that he had not paid a tax.
Second. It follows that if by § 278(d) the period'of limitation had run in favor of the corporation, it had run in
favor of the transferees. The couitention of the government that the section does not apply under the facts of
the present case, depends upon the meaning of the phrase
which we have italicized: "Where the assessment . . .
has been made . . . within the statutory period of limi-

UNITED STATES v. UPDIKE.
489

Opinion of the Court.

tation properly applicable thereto, such tax may be collected . . . by a proceeding in court . . . but only if
begun (1) within six years after the assessment of the
tax . . ." The argument, in effect, is this: In 1920 when
the assessment was made, there was, and had been, no
provision of law which in any form limited the time for
assessing or collecting taxes, and, therefore, an assessment
in 1920 of 1917 taxes could not fulfil the requirements of
§ 278(d), because, in that view, there was no "statutory
period of limitation properly applicable thereto "; and,
assuming the applicability of statutes passed after 1920,
the provision in these statutes is that the assessment may
be made "at any time." and that is not a period of limitation within the meaning of § 278(d), for the word
"period" connotes a stated interval of time commonly
thought of in terms of years, months and days.
The clear intent of § 278, as applied to the facts of the
present case, was to designate the extent of time for the
enforcement of the tax liability. Where, in a "no return" case, an assessment, which, under paragraph (a),
may be made at any time, has in fact been made, a proceeding to collect must be begun within six years thereafter; but where there has been no assessment, the proceeding may be begun at any time. In the present case
there was an assessment, and it would not be doubted
that the suit was barred at the expiration of the six-year
period of'limitation, unless for the presence of the words
italicized above. Have these words the effect of averting
the bar? We think not. An actual assessment having
been made, - it must be assumed that the government was
in possession of the facts which gave rise to the liability
upon which the assessment was predicated. In such case
to allow an indefinite time for proceeding to collect the

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

tax would be out of harmony with the obvious policy of
the act to promote repose by fixing a definite period *after
assessment within which suits and proceedings for the
collection of taxes must be brought.
In the light of that policy, it seems reasonably clear
that the saving clause, "within the statutory period of
limitation properly applicable thereto," was inserted solely
for the protection of the taxpayer-that is to say, in order
to preclude collection of the tax even within six years
after the assessment, if that assessment, when made, was
barred by the applicable statutory limitation. This conclusion is confirmed, if confirmation be necessary, by the
provisions of paragraph (a), which clearly contemplate
that the six-year period shall apply, except where the
proceeding to collect is brought "without assessment," in
which event it may be brought "at any time."
It may be that the saving clause was not strictly necessary; but was inserted from excessive care to put the
right of the taxpayer beyond dispute. In any event,
we think this is the fair interpretation of the clause, and
the one which must be accepted, especially in view of the
rule which requires taxing acts, including provisions of
limitation embodied therein, to be construed liberally in
favor of the taxpayer. Bowers v. N. Y. & Albany Co., 273
U. S. 346, 349.
This disposes of the case and it becomes unnecessary
to determine whether the phrase, ' at any time," imports
a "period of limitation," or to consider other questions
presented in argument.
Decree affirmed.

