DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. THOMPSON.

25

Statement of the Case.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. THOMPSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 44.

Argued December 4, 1929.-Decided February 24, 1930.

Pursuafit to an Act of Congress, the Commissioners of the District
of Columbia condemned a strip of land for the extension of a
street, and levied and collected a special assessment of benefits
for the contemplated improvements. Fourteen years elapsed during
which time the District neither made the extension nor took any
steps towards that end. It showed no obstacle which had prevented the extension; it had built a sidewalk and curb across the
strip which constituted an obstruction to vehicular traffic; and
it made no claim in its pleading and proof that it desired or intended to make such extension at any future time. Upon review
of a judgment for the plaintiff in an action to recover the sum of
$200 thus assessed as benefits and paid to the District, held:
1. That the District had abandoned the purpose for which thc
special assessment was levied and collected. P. 32.
2. That the District was properly required to return to the plaintiff, as for failure of consideration, the amount of the assessment
paid. P. 31.
3. That the action was one within the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court of the District of Columbia, as a claim for debt arising
out of an implied contract. P. 33.
4. That plaintiff's right of action was not barred by limitation
of three years, since the claim accrued not at the time when the
assessment was confirmed or was paid, but rather at the time of
the abandonment of the project. P. 34.
30 F. (2d) 476, affirmed.
CERTIORARI;

279 U. S. 829, to review a decision of the

Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia affirming a
judgment of the Municipal Court in an action against
the District to recover the amount of a special assessment
of benefits for contemplated improvements which were
subsequently abandoned.

26

OCTIOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondent.'

281 U. S.

Mr. Alexander H. Bell, Jr., Assistant Corporation
Counsel, with whom Mr. William IV. Bride, Corporation
Counsel, District of Columbia, was on the brief, for the
petitioner.
The record fails to disclose a single instance where the
Commissioners "have expressed by word or action an intention not to exercise the power so delegated." .On the
contrary, they have taken no action looking to the abandonment of the street. There is nothing in the case,
therefore, to support a finding of fact that the Commissioners had abandoned the project.
The Commissioners are merely ministerial officers deriving their powers solely through special grant by Congress, and Congress having once directed them to extend
Lamont Street, it is absolutely beyond their power to
alter or disregard such direction.
The verdict of condemnation having bcen ratified on
February 3, 1913, the claim is barred.
If, on the other hand, the acceptance by the Collector
of Taxes of the amount involved constituted a new
promise to pave and improve Lamont Street, the limitation had been exceeded by three months when the suit
was filed in the Municipal Court..
Mr. William E. Furey, with whom Mr. Paul V. Rogers
was on the brief, for respondent.
All the elements of proof generally accepted by the
courts of this country as tending to establish abandonment were before the trial court. Valentine v. St. Paul,
34 Minn. 446; Bradford v. Chicago, 25 Ill. 349; McConville v. St. Paul, 75 Minn. 393; San Antonio v. Walker,
56 S. W. 952; Neer v. Salem, 149 Pac. 478; San Antonio
v. Peters, 40 S. W. 827.
Time is an important element on the question of abandonment and particularly goes to the intent to abandon.

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. THOMPSON.
25

Argument for Respondent.

The lapse of time alone may be sufficient; and a lapse of
time with slight circumstances may likewise be sufficient
to establish abandonment. Holt v. Sargent, 15 Grey
(Mass.) 97; Harkraderv. Carroll, 76 Fed. 474; Johnson v.
Rasmus, 237 Mo. 586; Burke v. Bishop, 175 Fed. 167;
Smith v. Gorrell, 81 Ia. 218.
The present case clearly falls within the doctrine of
abandonment by acts in pais. The argument that abandonment, to be effective, must be based on formal renunciation by the proper officials of the municipality, is obviously fallacious. Such a rule of law would permit the
municipality indefinitely to conceal its true intention behind a cloak of silence, and thereby preclude a taxpayer
from the assertion of a just claim.
The taking of respondent's money, being based on the
realization by her of an equivalent benefit to her land,
is a matter cognizable by a court of law, and in a case
such as the present the doctrine of estoppel operates to
preclude any defense based on the limited authority of
individual public officers, where the grievance complained
of flows from the corporation itself.
The levying and collecting of special assessments in
anticipation of a street improvement must be considered
as raising a condition that the purpose for which the
assessment is levied and collected will be carried out. It
is the violation of this condition, and not the breach of a
supposed contract, which gives rise to respondent's right
to recover back the assessment paid. Such being the
case, we submit that the statute of limitations commences
to run from a breach of the condition after notice of such
breach can reasonably be imputed to the respondent.
American Security & Trust Co. v. Rudolph, 38 App. D. C.
42. When the purpose for which the land in question
was condemned is abandoned a right immediately accrues
to the taxpayer to recover the amounts so paid. Any other

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

conclusion would sanction the taking of private property
for public use without compensation.
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Pursuant to an Act of March 1, 1912,1 authorizing and
directing them so to do, the Commissioners of the District
of Columbia instituted in the Supreme Court of the District, under and in accordance with the District Code of
Law, a proceeding in rem to condemn the land necessary
to extend Lamont Street, northwest, with a width of
ninety feet, through two designated squares west of its
termination at 19th Street.2 The strip of land necessary
for this extension' was condemned and title vested in the
District, and the damages were awarded and the benefits
assessed by a-verdict 6f the jury. This was confirmed by
the court in February 1913. The sum of $200 was assessed as benefits against a lot owned by the respondent,
Georgiana Thompson. Under the District Code this became a lien upon the lot, collectible as special improvement taxes and payable in five annual instalments.3 In
March, 1921, the lot was sold for nonpayment of the assessment, and in March, 1923, was redeemed by the respondent from such sale by the payment of the $200 and
interest to the Collector of Taxes of the District.
In June, 1927, the respondent-hereinafter called the
plaintiff-brought an action against "the District in the
Municiprl Court, alleging that she had paid the assessment of benefits under obligation of law; that the-District
had wholly failed to extend Lamont Street through the
137 Stat. 71, c. 48.
2The Act specifically provided that the amount awarded by the
jury as damages for the land condemned for the extension, plus the
costs and expenses of the proceeding, should be assessed by the jury
as benefits.
3District Code of Law, § 491(j).

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. THOMPSON.
25

. Opinion of the Court.

designated squares, the strip of land condemned being yet
unimproved by a street extension, and had abandoned the
purpose of the condemnation authorized by the Act of
Congress; and that she was entitled to the repayment
of the $200 assessment-for which she claimed judgment.
The District filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the court
over the cause of action; and also an affidavit of defense,
denying that it had abandoned the purpose of the condemnation for the extensidn of Lamont Street, and alleging that more than three years had elapsed since the time
when the plaintiff's right of action, if any, had accrued to
her. It was not alleged that the District intended to extend Lamont Street over the condemned strip at any
future time.
At the trial the following facts-which are undisputed-were shown: Lamont Street, when the condemnation proceeding for its extension was instituted, had been
paved, graded and laid out, east of 19th Street, with a
roadway, sidewalks, curbing and parking spaces, and was
open for vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Since the acquisition of the strip west of 19th Street and the-confirmation of the verdict in 1913, no official action had been
taken by the Commissiouers or by Cbngress looking to the
abandonment of the title thereto, or of the right of the.
District to improve it.. However, sipce that time and up
to the -filing of the plaintiff's suit in 1927, Lamont Street
had not been extended as an improved street, and the condemned strip had not been laid out for a roadway, sidewalk or parking space, nor graded, paved or otherwise
improved for highway purposes; nor had Congress made
any specific appropriation therefor. And although lying
between two improved highways, 19th Street and Adams
Mill Road, it still remained open, vacant property. For
a short'distance along its south side, at a time not shown,
a dement sidewalk had been laid by a private person as
an entrance to an apartment house, under a District per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

mit. In March, 1924, the District had laid a. cement sidewalk and curb along the west side of 19th Street and
across the east end of the condemned strip, which constituted an effective obstruction to any vehicular traffic
over it. And in January, 1926, in a letter declining to
entertain an application made by the attorney for the
plaintiff and others for a refund of the assessments on the
ground that the District appeared to have abandoned the
project for the extension of the street, the Auditor of the
District had stated that the official files of the engineer department indicated that it had never been the intbntion
to open the extension of Lamont Street to vehicular traffic
because of the excessive grade, but that the principal
reason for condemning the strip was to provide a vista and
access to Zoological Park, and it was intended to treat the.
extension with terraces and steps.' It was not shown
that the District had taken any step at any time looking
towards the extension of Lamont Street over the condemned strip, or indicating its intention to make such
extension at any future time.
The Municipal Court gave judgment for the plaintiff;
and this, on writ of error, was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals of the District. 30 F. (2d) 476.
We think the judgment should be affirmed.
1. Pursuant to the Act of Congress the strip of land
was condemned for the extension of Lamont Street, an
improved thoroughfare open for vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and all the ordinary uses of a street. In the condemnation proceeding the jury were necessarily required
'This letter was introduced by the plaintiff and admitted over the
defendant's objection, to show her first knowledge that the defendant
intended to abandon or had abandoned the purpose of the condemnation; but the defendant's exception to the overruling of its objection
was not brought up by any assignment of error in the Court of
Appeals.

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. THOMPSON.
25

Opinion of the Court.

to assess the benefits which would accrue from such extension, that is, from the extension of a street where one
had not theretofore existed, and not from an unimproved
strip of land merely. See Washington R. & E. Co. v.
Newman, 41 App. D. C., 439, 445; and cases cited. That
is, the consideration for the assessment of the benefits was
the extension of Lamont Street over the condemned strip.
2. Under the undisputed facts we think the District was
under an obligation imposed by law to return, as for a
failure of consideration, the assessment of benefits that
had been paid by the plaintiff.
In Valentine v. City of St. Paul, 34 Minn. 446, 448,
benefits had been assessed against the plaintiff's land by
reason of the proposed opening and extension of a street,
and he had been compelled to pay the amount of this assessment to redeem his land from sale. No part of the
street having been opened, and the project for opening
and extending it having been abandoned by the city, he
was held entitled to recover the amount paid as upon a
failure of the consideration for the assessment. The
court said that "the effect of the abandonment by the
city of the project of 'extending and opening' the proposed
street for and on account of which, and which only, the
assessment was made, is that the consideration of the
assessment has wholly failed. So that the city stands in
the position of holding in its treasury money collected from
the plaintiff which it has no right in equity, good conscience, or common honesty to retain, because the purpose for which it was collected has been completely abandoned. In such circumstances no statute is required to
impose upon the city a legal obligation to make restitution. An action lies as at common law for money had and
received

. . . That the city is a municipal corporation

does not distinguish it from a private person in this respect." To the same effect are McConville v. City of St.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Paul, 75 Minn. 383, City of San Antonio v. Peter's (Tex.
Civ. App.,) 40 S. W. 827, City of San Antonio v. Walker
(Tex. Civ. App.,) 56 S. W. 952, and Bradford v. City of
Chicago, 25 Ill. 411, involving assessments for the opening,
extension and widening of streets. And see Ward v. Love
County, 253 U. S. 17, 24, and cases cited.
In two of these cases the abandonment of the proposed
street improvement for which the benefits had been assessed, although not shown by any affirmative act on the
part of the municipality, was established by circumstances;
in one where there had been the lapse of a reasonable
time during which the city had done nothing to carry on
the improvement, and there was no claim in its answer
or proof that it desired or ever intended so tc0 do, McConville v. City of St. Paul, supra, 386; and in the other
where there had been the lapse of a reasonable time during
which the city had done nothing to carry out the improvement, and there was no proof that it had been prevented
by any obstacle in the way thereof, Bradford v. City of
Chicago, supra, 417.
Here, although the Commissioners had been instructed
by Congress to condemn the strip of land for the extension of Lamont Street, more than fourteen years had
elapsed during which the District had neither made this
extension nor taken any step towards that end; it showed
no obstacle which had prevented such extension; it had
built a sidewalk and curb across the strip which constituted an obstruction to vehicular: traffic; and it made
no claim in its pleadings -or proof that it desired or intended to make such extension at any future time. We
think that these circumstances established, as a matter of
reasonable and necessary inference, the fact that the District had abandoned the purpose of extending the street
over the condemned strip; and that, this being so, for

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. THOMPSON.
25

. Opinion of the Court.

the reasons well stated in the Valentine case, the District
was properly required to return to the plaintiff, as for failure of consideration, the amount- of the assessment that
she had paid, which it liad retained contrary to equity and
good conscience and held, by implication of law, as money
had and received to her use.
3. As the basis of the plaintiff's cause of action was the
obligation imposed by law upon the District by reason
of the failure of consideration for the assessment of benefits, it was one, we think, of which the Municipal Court
had jurisdiction as a claim for debt arising out of an "implied" contract, not exceeding $300.'
4. Nor was the plaintiff's right of action barred by the
statute of limitations of three years.6 The District contends that the plaintiff's claim accrued 'either when the
verdict of the jury assessing benefits was confirmed in February, 1913, or when she paid the assessment in March,
1923. This contention entirely misconceives the nature of
the plaintiff's cause of action, which is not based upon
any :illegality in the original assessment that would have
given rise to any right of action when the benefits were
either assessed or paid, but entirely upon the abandonment by the District of the proposed extension. See City
of San Antonio v. Walker, supra, 953. The Court of Appeals held upon the evidence that such right of action
did not accrue until January, 1926; and this is not
controverted.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
, District Code, § 9; Act of Feb. 17, 1909, 35 Stat. 623, c. 134.
[Modified by Act of March 3, 1921, 41 Stat., pt. 1, p. 1310, enlarging jurisdictional amount to $1,000.]
o District Code, § 1265.
98234°-30-3

