UNITED STATES v. WORLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. WORLEY, ADMINISTRATRIX,
ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 548.

Argued March 4, 5, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. A certified question (U. S. C., Title 28, § 346) need not be answered
when objectionable because of its generality and when an answer
is not necessary for the decision of the case. P. 340.
2. In an action on a war risk insurance contract the judgment should
not include instalments maturing after the action began and as
to which there was no supplemental petition, nor should it include
instalments to mature in-the future. P. 341.
3. Interest on the instalments is not allowable. Id.
4. Costs can not be awarded against the United States in such
actions. P. 344,
ANSWERS

to questions certified by the Circuit Court of

Appeals in relation to a judgment of the District Court
against the United States in an action on a war risk insurance contract.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General. with whom Messrs. J. Frank Staley and
TV. Clifton Stone were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Clarence T. Spier, with whom Mr. Charles Battelle
was on the brief, for Worley.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The deceased enlisted in the army April 2, 1917, and
was discharged March 18, 1918. He obtained insurance
for $10,000 payable in the event of death or total permanent disability at the rate of $57.50 per month. Act of
October 6, 1917, 40 Stat. 398, 409. The contract was in
force when he was discharged. He presented to the Veterans' Bureau a claim for permanent total disability from

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

that date. It was rejected December 29, 1926. He died
January 7, 1927.
April 23, his mother as administratrix brought this action in the United States court for Nebraska to recover
on account of his disability from the date of discharge to
the time of his death. 38 U. S. C., § 445. July 6, she
intervened as beneficiary to recover installments maturing after his death. There was a verdict on which, October 31, 1928, judgment was entered in her favor as
administratrix for $6,095 and as beneficiary for $3,905.
Later the District Court entered a supplemental judgment that as beneficiary she was then entitled to $1,265
on account of the installments falling due before the
original judgment; that the balance, $2,640, should be
paid pt the rate of $57.50 per month commencing November 1, 1928; that she have interest on all installments
from the dates on which they became due to the date of
judgment and thereafter interest on the amount of the
judgment, and that she recover costs. The United States
appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals certified the
four questions which are given below. 28 U. S. C., § 346.
" 1. Upon the facts stated [in the certificate] does the
United States, as matter of law, stand in the position of
one who has gone into the business of insurance, and
must, therefore, be assumed to have accepted the ordinary
incidents of suits in such business? '
Apparently, this question was suggested by language
in our decision in Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 267
U. S. 76, 79. While the answer sought might aid in the
determination of the proper application of that opinion,
it is not necessary for the decision of the case. The question is one of objectionable generality. United States v.
Mayer, 235 U. S. 55, 66. It need not be answered.
"2. May judgment be entered against the United
States for the amounts of insurance installments maturing after the action was instituted? "

UNITED STATES v. WORLEY.
339

341

Opinion of the Court.

Undoubtedly, when one's right to recover is established
by judgment, the Veterans' Bureau will pay him installments maturing in his favor after the commencement of
the action. It therefore is a matter of no practical
importance whether the installments maturing between
date of intervention and entry of the judgment be included. But the certificate does not disclose any supplemental petition in respect of such installments, and the
judgment should not include them. Hamlin, Hale & Co.
v. Race, 78 Ill. 422. Carter-Crume Co. v. Peurrung, 99
Fed. 888, 890.
Section 514, Tit. 38, U. S. C.,* provides that if the
designated beneficiary does not survive the insured or
dies prior to receiving all of the 240 installments, or all
such as are payable and applicable, the present value of
the monthly installments thereafter payable shall be paid
to the estate of the insured. A judgment for the designated beneficiary for all installments thereafter to mature
would not protect the United States against a claim by
the estate of the insured for any installments falling due
after the death of the beneficiary. The judgment should
not govern payment of installments later to mature.
The question should be answered in the negative.
"3. Is interest allowable against the United States
upon the monthly installments from the date they are
found to be due?"
The rule is that the United States will not be required
to pay interest except where the liability is imposed by
statute or assumed by contract. An implied agreement
to pay interest arises upon a taking by the United States
of private property for public use where interest is an
element in the just compensation guaranteed by the Constitution. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. United States, 261
§ 303, Act of June 7, 1924, 43 Stat. 625 as amended by § 14, Act
of March 4, 1925, 43 Stat. 1310.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

UT. S. 299, 304. Where the United States came into admiralty to assert a. claim as owner pro hac vice of a vessel
it thereby agreed by implication to accept whatever decision the courts might make, and was held liable for
interest. United States v. The Thekla, 266 U. S. 328,
339-340. And see The Nuestra Senora de Regla, 108
U. S. 92, 104. The Paquete Habana, 189 U. S. 453, 465,
467.
Appellee relies on Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
supra, a libel on war risk insurance policies issued upon
an American vessel and its cargo under the War Risk
Insurance Act of September 2, 1914, 38 Stat. 711. The
United States was held liable for interest upon the ground
that (p. 79): "When the United States went into the
insurance business, issued policies in familiar form and
provided that in case of disagreement it might be sued,
it must be assumed to have accepted the ordinary incidents of suits in such business. The policies promised
that claims would be paid within thirty days after complete proofs of interest and loss.
The Act authorized the Bureau to adopt and publish
forms of policies and to establish reasonable rates. The
policies adopted by the Bureau and used in that case contained a promise to pay losses within a specified time.
Under that form of contract private underwriters are
liable for interest when payment is not made as agreed.
There was nothing in the statute to disclose an intention
on the part of the United States to bear any part of the
cost. of the insurance or to give pecuniary aid to the
owners of vessels or other property insured. And as a
matter of fact a large profit resulted from the operation
of the business. Annual Report of the Director of the
U. S. Veterans' Bureau, 1923, p. 675.
On the other hand, the Act of October 6, 1917, discloses
a purpose on the part of the United States to protect

UNITED STATES v. WORLEY.
339

Opinion of the Court.

those engaged in war service and their dependents and to
contribute to their financial welfare. It provides for payment by the United States of family allowances in certain
cases and of compensation for death or disability of
officers, enlisted men and members ,of the army and navy
nurse corps in active service resulting from injury or
disease contracted in the line of duty. Arts. II and III.
And "in order to give to every commissioned officer
and enlisted man and to every member of the Army
Nurse Corps (female) and of the Navy Nurse Corps
(female) when employed in active service under the War
Department or Navy Department greater protection for
themselves and their dependents than is provided in Article III" the United States provided life and disability
insurance. Art. IV. Its benefits were extended without
application therefor to those who were totally and permanently disabled or who died in active service after our
entry into the war, April 6, 1917, and prior to the expiration of 120 days after the publication of the terms of the
insurance. All such persons were deemed to have applied
for and to have been granted insurance. § 401. The
United States bore expenses of administration and excess
mortality and disability cost resulting from the ha~zards
of war. The. insurance was limited to $10,000 and was
made payable in 240 equal monthly installments; it was
made not assignable nor subject to claims of creditors of
the insured or of the beneficiary. The premiums were
not adequate. The Congress intended that the United
States should bear, and undoubtedly it has borne, a large
part of the cost. Consequently the payments include
both insurance and pension. White v. United States, 270
U. S.175, 180.
The Act does not provide for the payment of any interest on past due installments. It has been uniformly construed by the Bureau not to allow any. There is noth-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

281 U. S.

ing in the conduct of the United States in respect of life
and disability insurance from which an agreement on its
part to pay interest may reasonably be implied.
This question is not within the principle upon which
interest was allowed in Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
supra. It should be answered in the negative.
"4. May costs be awarded generally against the United
States, upon condition that they be paid from accumulated funds in the hands of the Veterans' Bureau, if any,
available for that purpose? "
The rule is that in the absence of a statute directly authorizing it courts will not give judgment against the
United States for costs or expenses. United States v.
Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1, 20. There is no
statute permitting costs to be awarded against the government in this case.
The question should be answered in the negative.
Question 1 is not answered.
Question 2 is answered: No.
Question 8 is answered: No.
Question 4 is answered: No.
JACKSON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 463.

Argued March 4, 5, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930

A judgment against the United States for accrued instalments under
a war risk policy of insurance against permanent total disability
should not include interest.
34 F. (2d) 241, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U.

S. 549, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of
the District Court, 24 F. (2d) 981, in an action on a war
risk insurance policy.

