LIABILITY ASSURANCE CO. v. COOK,

233

Argument for Petitioner.

EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED, v. COOK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 81.

Argued January 14, 15, 1930.W-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. The unloading of a ship is a matter maritime in character and not
of purely local concern. P. 236.
2. A claim arising out of injuries received by a workman while in the
hold of a ship assisting in unloading cargo is within the exclusive
maritime jurisdiction, notwithstanding that his general employment
contemplated non-maritime duties. Id.
3. The fact that a state workmen's compensation act is elective in
form does not affect the rights and liabilities of the parties in respect
of a claim that is within the exclusive maritime jurisdiction. Id.
31 F, (2d) 497, reversed,
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 538, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a recovery in an action
for personal injuries, based on a state workmen's compensation law, which was removed to the District Court
from a state court.
Messrs. Win. A. Vinson and Clyde A. Sweeton submitted for petitioner.
There is no distinction between the case at bar and the
case of Northern Coal Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142.
The argument that because the injury to the employee
in the case at bar was not caused by tort, but was a pure
accident and there was no relief in admiralty, the State
of Texas could properly and legally legislate upon the
subject, is not sound. Congress is given exclusive jurisdiction over all matters of admiralty and admiralty
jurisdiction. Its failure to make provision in admiralty
for accidental injuries does not leave the field of legisla-

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

tion in that respect open to the States. Southern Pacific
Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205.
Distinguishing: Grant Smith-Porter Co. v. Rohde, 257
U. S. 469; Millers' Ind. Underwriters v. Braud, 207
U. S. 59.
Mr. Sam C. Polk, with whom Messrs. D. A. Simmons
and Ira J. Allen were on the brief, for respondents.
The enforcement of the rights of the employee under
the provisions of the state compensation act, which both
tie employee and employer have elected to accept, does
not work a material prejudice to any characteristic feature
of the general maritime law, and is not in conflict with the
constitutional provision extending the judicial power of
the United States "to all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction." Citing: Alaska Packers Ass'n v. Industrial Comm'n, 276 U. S.467; Grant Smith-Porter Co. v.
Rohde, 257 U. S.469; Millers' Ind. Underwritersv. Braud,
27C U. S.59; Lindberg v. Southern Cas. Co., 18 F. (2d)
453, cert. denied, 274 U. S.759; State Industrial Comm'n
v. Nordenholt Corp'n, 259 U. S. 263; State Industrial
Board v. T. & T. Co., 273 U. S.639; Ketchikan L. & S.
Co. v. Bishop, 24 F. (2d) 63; Ex parte Havard, 211 Ala.
605; Ex parte Rosengrant, 213 Ala. 202, aff'd 273 U. S.
664; Oakland v. Industrial Comm'n,'198 Cal. 273; Atlantic Coast Shipping Co. v. Royster, 148 Md. 433; Toland's
Case, 258 Mass. 470; Southern Surety Co. v. Crawford,
274 S.W. 280, cert. denied, 270 U. S.655; Scott v. Dep't
of Labor, 130 Wash. 598; Eclipse Mill Co. v. Dep't of
Labor, 141 Wash. 172.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In January, 1927, while regularly employed by the
Ford Motor Company and "open for any kind of work"
Hal Cook was instructed as "a part of his contract of em-

LIABILITY ASSURANCE CO. v. COOK.
233

Opinion of the Court.

ployment to assist in unloading cargo off" the steamship
Lake Gorian, lately arrived at Houston, Texas, from the
high seas and then tied up at the dock. While at work
in the hold of the vessel he received serious injuries from
which it is asserted he died March twenty-eighth.
The Ford Motor Company carried a policy of Workmen's Compensation Insurance with the petitioner, Employers' Liability Assurance Corporation, Ltd., of London,
England, which undertook to protect the assured against
loss by reason of injuries to its employees.
Purporting to proceed under the Workmen's Compensation Act of Texas respondents presented to the Industrial Accident Board a claim for compensation because
of Cook's death, against both the Motor Company and
the insurer. This was denied upon the ground that the
death "was due to a condition in no way incident to or
associated with his employment." As permitted by the
statute respondents refused to abide by the action of the
Board and brought suit in the state court.
They alleged-" While in the course of his employment, said Hal Cook was instructed by said Ford Motor
Company to assist in unloading a ship or vessel belonging to the said Ford. Motor Company then anchored at
the wharves at Houston Ship Channel at Houston, Texas,
and while so engaged said Hal Cook suffered severe injuries in that while he and other employees of the said
Ford Motor Company were unloading from said ship the
cargo thereon, consisting of axles 'and various other parts
of automobiles, and transferring the same to the wharves
where said ship was anchored, the said Hal Cook, while
lifting said automobile parts, received a severe strain to
the internal muscles of his back . . . ," which caused his
death.
They asked for judgment setting aside the award of
the Board and for' compensation as provided by the
statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The cause was removed to the United States District
Court. It heard the evidence, denied a motion for an
instructed verdict in favor of the petitioner, submitted
the matter to a jury and upon a verdict in respondents'
favor entered judgment. Appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit which held"We think it fairly can be said that the matter of unloading these two ships of the Ford Motor Co. at rare
intervals was 'of merely local concern, and its regulation
by the state will work no material prejudice to any
feature of the general maritime law.'"
The record plainly -discloses that while in the course of
his employment and at work in the hold assisting in
unloading a vessel afloat on navigable waters Cook received injuries out of which this suit arose. There is
nothing in principle.to differentiate this case from Northern Coal Company v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142, and the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed.
See Nogueira v. New York, N. H. & H. R. R. Co.,
decided this day, ante, p. 128.
The proceeding to recover under the State Compensation Act necessarily admitted that the decedent was
employed by the insured when injured. Any right of
recovery against the insurance carrier depends upon the
liability of the assured. Whether Cook's employment
contemplated that he should work regularly in unloading
vessels or only when specially directed so to do is not
important. The unloading of a ship is not matter of
purely local concern as we have often pointed out. Unde,
the circumstances disclosed the State lacked power to
prescribe the rights and liabilities of the parties growing
out of the accident. The fact that the Compensation
Law of the State was elective in form does not aid the
respondents. The employer did not surrender rights

LIABILITY ASSURANCE CO. v. COOK.
233

-STONE, J., dissenting

guaranteed to him by the Federal law merely by electing
to accept one of two kinds of liability in respect of matters within the State's control, either of which she had
power to impose upon him.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

Opinion of MR.

JUSTICE STONE.

As the Court, in Northern Coal & Dock Company v.
Strand, 278 U. S. 142, held that one engaged as a stevedore in unloading a ship lying in navigable waters is a
seaman within the meaning of the Jones Act, 41 Stat.
1007, 46 U. S. C. A., § 688; International Stevedoring
Company v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50, and that by that Act
Congress had occupied the field and excluded all state
legislation having application within it, I am content to
rest this case on that ground. See Nogueira v. N. Y., N.
H. & H. R. R., decided this day, ante, p. 128. But I do not
agree that the present case is so exclusively controlled
by the maritime law that workmen otherwise in the situation of respondent, but who are not seamen and therefore not given a remedy by the Jones Act, and who are
not within the purview of the Employers' Liability Act,
35 Stat. 65 (45 U. S. C. A., § 51), are excluded from the
benefits of a compensation act like that of Texas. The
Court held otherwise in Rosengrant v. Havard, 273 U. S.
664, commented on in my opinion in John Baizley Iron
Works v. Span, decided this day, ante, p. 222.
The present case arose before the effective date of the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act, 44 Stat. 424
(33 U. S. C. A., § § 901, 950). But the remedies given by
that Act are withheld where recovery may be had under
local compehsation acts, and not all persons engaged in

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.

238

Argument for Petitioners.

281 U. S.

unloading a vessel are entitled to recover under it, even
though without remedy under local compensation laws.
See § 3 (a) [33 U. S. C. A., § 903 (a)].
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

con-

cur.

MAY

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS, v. HEINER, COLLECTOR
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 311.

Argued March 7, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. A transfer in trust by a grantor since deceased, under which
the income was payable to decedent's husband during his lifetime
and after his death to the decedent during her lifetime, with remainder over to her children, held not made in contemplation of
or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after
death, within the legal significance of those words, and that, there-

fore, the corpus of the trust should not be included in the value of
the gross estate of the decedent for purposes of -estate tax under
§ 402 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1918. P. 243.
2. The estate tax of- the Revenue Act of 1918, § 401, imposes an
excise upon the transfer of an estate upon the death of the owner.
P. 244.
32 F. (2d) 1017, reversed.

280 U. S. 542, to review a judgment of-the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of
the District Court, 25 F. (2d) 1004, sustaining a federal
estate tax.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Charles H. Sachs, with whom Mr. Louis Caplan
was on the brief, for petitioners.
The transfer in this case was effective to pass the title
to the property and the economic benefits to be derived
therefrom immediately when it was made, on October
1, 1917.

