276

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

PATTON

ET AL.

281 U. S.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 53. Argued February 25, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.
1. After the commencement of a trial in a federal court before a jury
of twelve men upon an indictment charging a crime, punishment
for which may involve a penitentiary sentence, if one juror becomes incapacitated and unable to proceed further with his work as
a juror, the defendant and the Government, through its official
representative in charge of the case, may consent to the trial's proceeding to a finality with eleven jurors, and defendant thus may
waive the right to a trial and verdict by a constitutional jury of
twelve-men. P. 287 et seq.
2. The phrase "trial by jury," as used in the Federal Constitution
(Art. III, § 2, and the Sixth Amendment) means a trial by jury as
understood and applied at common law, and includes all the essential elements as they were recognized in this country.and England
when the Constitution was adopted; viz: (1) that the jury should
consist of twelve men, neither more nor less; .(2) that the trial
should be in the presence and under the superintendence of a
judge having power to instruct them as to the law and advise them
in respect of the facts; and (3) that the verdict should be unanimous. P. 288.
3. These common law elements of a jury trial are embedded in the provisions of the Federal Constitution relating thereto, and are beyond the authority of the legislative department to destroy or
abridge. P. 290.
4. There is no difference in substance between a complete waiver of
a jury and consent to be tried by a less number than twelve.
Id.
5. A question involving a claim of constitutional right cannot be settled by the simple process of ascertaining that the infraction assailed is unimportant when compared with similar but more serious
infractions which might be conceived; to uphold the voluntary
reduction of a jury from twelve to eleven upon the ground that
the reduction is only a slight reduction, is not to interpret the Constitution, but to disregard it. P. 292.
6. The effect of the constitutional provisions in respect of trial by
jury is not to establish a tribunal as a part of the frame of govern-

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

277

Argument for Patton.

ment, but only to guarantee to the accused the right to such .a
trial. P. 293.
7. The first ten amendments and the original Constitution were substantially contemporaneous, and should be construed in pari
materia. P. 298.
8. The provision of Art.-III, § 2, of the Constitution, relating to trial
by jury, is not jurisdictional, but was meant to confer a right
upon the accused which he may forego at his election. Id.
9. A federal district court has authority in the exercise of a sound
discretion to accept a waiver of jury trial in a criminal case, and
to proceed to the trial and determination of the case with a reduced
number or without a jury, the. grant of jurisdiction by § 24 of the
Judicial Code, U. S. C., Title 28, § 41 (2), being sufficient to that
end. P. 299.
10. The view that power to waive a trial by jury in criminal cases
should be denied on grounds of public policy is rejected a.unsound.
P. 308.
11. The power of waiver of jury trial by the defendant in a criminal
case is applicable to cases of felonies as well as to misdemeanors.
P. 309.
12. Before a waiver of jury trial in a criminal case can become effective, the consent of government counsel and the sanction of the
court must be had, .inaddition to the express and intelligent consent of the defendant, and the duty of the trial court in this
regard is to be discharged with a sound and advised discretion.
P. 312.

ANSWER to a question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon review of a judgment of the District Court
imposing sentence in a criminal prosecution for conspiring
to bribe a federal prohibition agent.
Mr. Claude Nowlin, with whom Messrs. Jacob R. Spielman and M. M. Thomas were on the brief, for Patton et al.
Where defendants are tried in the United States District Court for a felony upon their plea of not guilty, the
jurisdiction of the court to pronounce judgment of conviction and sentence upon them rests upon a unanimous verdict of guilty duly returned by a constitutional jury of

twelve, and no agreement between the representative of
the Government and the defendants and their counsel

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U. S.

can change the tribunal provided by the Constitution so
as to confer jurisdiction upon the court to pronounce judgment and sentence upon a finding of guilty by eleven
jurors. Citing: Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Low v. United States, 169 Fed.
36; Cancemi v. People, 18 N. Y. 128; Rassmussen v. United
States, 197 U. S. 516; Frank v. United States, 192 Fed.
864; Dickinson v. United States, 159 Fed. 801; Freeman
v. United States, 227 Fed. 732; Lamb v. Lane, 4 Oh. St.
167; Capital Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 13; Crain v.
United States, 162 U. S. 625; Grove v. United States, 3 F.
(2d) 965; Gibson v. United States, 31 F. (2d) 19; Montana v. Ah Wah, 4 Mont. 149; State v. Mansfreed, 41 Mo.
470; Hill v. People, 16 Mich. 357.
Distinguishing: Commonwealth v. Daily, 12 Cush. 80;
Queenan v. Oklahoma, 190 U. S. 548; Schick v. United
States, 195 U. S. 65; State v. Kaufman, 51 Iowa 578;
Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 442.
Solicitor General Hughes, with whom Messrs. George
C. Butte, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
Robert P. Reeder, and Erwin N. Griswold were on the
brief, for the United States.
The Federal Constitution gives a defendant charged
with sugh an offense as is here involved, an inviolable
right to trial by a jury of twelve, but does not preclude
his express waiver thereof. It is conceded that the
defendants, being charged with felonies of a serious
nature, were entitled to trial before a jury of twelve.
Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540; Thompson v. Utah, 170
U. S. 343; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Rassmussen v.
United States, 197 U. S. 516.
Decisions of this Court and of other courts tend to
support the conclusion that the Constitution does not
preclude waiver of a jury trial. Diaz v. United States,
223 U. S. 442; Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65. Dis-

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Argument for the United States.

tinguishing Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343. See also
In re Belt, 159 U. S. 95; Territory v. Soga., 20 Hawaii 71.
Decisions of the lower federal courts generally are conflicting. Low v. United States, 169 Fed. 86; Coates v.
United States, 290 Fed. 134; United States v. Praeger,
149 Fed. 474; United States v. Shaw, 59 Fed. 110. In the
territorial courts the waiver of a jury in a misdemeanor
case was upheld in Ex parte Dunlap, 5 Alaska 521; but
in In re Virch,. 5 Alaska 500, and In re McQuown, 19
Okla. 347, such a waiver was held invalid.
In decisions involving the validity of trials before a
jury of eleven with the defendant's consent, conclusions
negativing the validity of the waiver of jury trial have
been expressed by the majority of the court in Dickinson
v. United States, 159 Fed. 801, and in two decisions by
territorial courts. Territory v. Ah Wah, 4 Mont. 149;
Territory v. Ortiz, 8 N. M. 154.
There is substantial uniformity in the decisions of the
state courts in which the question of the constitutionality
of statutes providing for the waiver of the entire jury has
been presented. The validity of such statutes has been
expressly adjudicated in a great number of States, and
in every instance the constitutionality of such a statute
has been upheld. Connelly v. State, 60 Ala. 89; Ireland
v. State, 11 Ala. App. 155; Baader v. State, 201 Ala. 76;
State v. Shearer,27 Ariz. 311; State v. Worden, 46 Conn.
349; State v. Rankin, 102 Conn. 46; Logan v. State, 86
Ga. 266; Moore v. State, 124 Ga. 30; Brewster v. People,
183 Ill. 143; People v. Fisher, 303 Ill. 430; Murphy v.
State, 97 Ind. 579; In re Clancy, 112 Kan. 247; League v.
State, 36 Md. 257; Commonwealth v. Rowe, 257 Mass. 172;
Ward v. People, 30 Mich. 116; People v. Steele, 94 Mich.
437; People v. Jones, 220 Mich. 633; People v. Henderson,
246 Mich. 481; State v. Woodling, 53 Minn. 142; State v.
Graves, 161 Minn. 422; State v. Moody, 24 Mo. 560;

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U. S.

State v. Bockstruck, 136 Mo. 335; Edwards v. State, 45
N. J. L. 419; Miller v. State, 3 Oh. St. 475; Dailey v. State,
4 Oh. St. 57; Dillingham v. State, 5 Oh. St. 280; Billigheimer v. State, 32 Oh. St. 435; Hoffman v. State, 98 Oh.
St. 137; Lee v. State, 86 Tex. Cr. Rep. 203; Armstrong v.
State, 98 Tex. Cr. Rep. 335; State v. Griggs, 34 W. Va. 78;
State v. Denoon, 34 W. Va. 139; In re Staff, 63 Wis. 285.
In civil cases, the only constitutional provision is that
of the Seventh Amendment prioviding that "the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved," but it is provided by a
statute which is applicable both to civil and criminal
cases that " the trial of issues of fact . . . shall be
by jury." Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, §§ 9, 12,
1 Stat. 73; Rev. Stats. §§ 566, 648, U. S. C., Title 28,
§ 770. Thus, trial by jury is prescribed by statute in civil
cases in identically the same terms as those in which it is
prescribed for criminal cases by the Third Article of the
Constitution. But this Court has uniformly held that
this statute does not prevent the waiver of the jury in
civil cases if the parties so desire. Guild v. Frontin, 18
How. 135; Campbell v. Boyreau, 21 How. 223; Kearney
v. Case, 12 Wall. 275; Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604;
Perego v. Dodge, 163 U. S. 160; Comm'rs of Road Dist.
v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., 257 U. S. 547; Law v. United
States, 266 U. S. 494; Duignan v. United States, 274 U. S.
195; Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65.
The Sixth Amendment was substantially contemporaneous with the original Constitution and in pari
materia with the jury provision in the Third Article.
That the amendment was phrased in terms of right is
strong indication that the original clause had no different
purpose. If so, there is no reason why the right to trial
by jury should be regarded as standing upon any different
footing than other rights conferred by the Fifth, Sixth,
and Seventh Amendments, which have been held to be
waivable. Trono v. United States, 199 U. S. 521; Fitz-

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Argument for the United States.

patrick v. United States, 178 U. S. 304; Powers v. United
States, 223 U. S. 303; Worthington v. United States, 1 F.
(2d) 154; Phillips v. United States, 201 Fed. 259; Diaz v.
United States, 223 U. S. 442.
If it be assumed that the constitutional provisions for
trial by jury should be construed as guaranteeing a right,
there is no valid reason why their benefit should not be
waivable. The argument usually advanced to support the
contrary view is that the matter concerns the public as
well as the individual, and that "no one has a right, by
his own voluntary act, to surrender his liberty or part
with his life." Cancemi v. People, 18 N. Y. 128. But
unless the intention of the Constitution was to require
trial by jury in such sense that its absence goes to the
jurisdiction of the court, the argument fails. A man may
effectively "by his own voluntary act surrender his liberty or part with his life" by pleading guilty. No public
policy forbids this, and a defendant's right so to do is
nowhere forbidden by the Constitution.
The historical background of the constitutional provisions tends to support the view that their purpose was
to create a right and not a mandatory requirement.
Waiver of trial by jury, even in trials for serious
offenses, was not unknown in Colonial times, and at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution. F. W. Grinnell,
in 8 Mass. L. Q., No. 5, p. 7, 1923; Commonwealth v.
Rowe, g57 Mass. 172; "Body of Liberties" of 1641, printed
in Colonial Laws of Mass. (Boston, 1889) 29; Laws and
Liberties of Massachusetts of 1648 (reprinted in Cambridge in 1929), p. 51; Revision of 1660, p. 77, and Revision of 1672, p. 152, reprinted, in the Colonial Laws of
Massachusetts, supra; The Compact, Charter and Laws
of the Colony of New.Plymouth (Boston, 1836), 242;
Records of the Court of Assistants, vol. I, published by
County of Suffolk, Mass., 1901, pp. 102, 104, 114-115,
285-286, Cases of Benanuel Bowers, p. 3, and of Robert

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U. S.

Maior, p. 84; Cutt Laws of 1679, 1 N. H. Province Laws
25; Slade, Vermont State Papers, 1823, p. 553; State v.
Taylor and Warren, 1 Root 226; State v. Shaw and six
others, 1 Root 134; State v. Ford, 2 Root 93; N. J: Laws,
c. LIX, p. 235, c. LXXII, p. 272; Paterson, Laws, N. J.,
pp. 213, 221, §§ 32, 79; Bond, Maryland Practice of Trying Criminal Cases, etc., 11 A. B. A. J. 699; Hudson v.
United States, 272 U. S. 451; Jenifer v. The Lord Proprietary, 1 H. & McH. 535; Miller v. The Lord Proprietary,1
H. & McH. 543; State v. Tibbs, 3 H. & McH. 83; Md.
Laws, 1781, c. XI.
The Maryland practice since the eighteenth century
has had a continuous development into the modern trial
by the court. In the year 1924 over 90 per cent. of all
the cases tried in the Criminal Court of Baltimore City
were tried without a jury (11 A. B. A. J. 701) under this
procedure which finds its origin quite definitely in the
provincial practice.
See also, Proprietorv. Wilkins, (1685/6) p. 88; Pennypacker's Colonial Cases, Phila., 1892; Respublica v.
Askew, 2 Dall. 189.
It may be argued that, even though waiver of the entire
jury in advance of trial might validly be authorized under
the Constitution, the court has no jurisdiction to try a
felony case without jury under the present statutes.
It is true that the weight of state court authority tends
to support that view. While in a few cases (involving
misdemeanors) state courts have held that trial by jury
might be waived in the absence of statutory authority
therefor (Zarresseller v. People, 17 Ill. 101; Darst v. People, 51 Ill. 286; see State v. Potter, 16 Kan. 80; Metzner
v. State, 128 Tenn. 45; Miller v. State, 116 Neb. 702), the
greater number of such decisions hold that waiver of the
entire jury is invalid either because the statutes relating
to jury trial are construed to be mandatory or because no
express provision is made by statute for waiver. Wilson

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the United States.

v. State, 16 Ark. 601; State v. Maine, 27 Conn. 281; State
v. Carman, 63 Iowa 130; Commonwealth v. Rowe, 257
Mass. 172; Neales v. State, 10 Mo. 498; Commonwealth v.
Hall, 291 Pa. 341; State v. Hirsch, 91 Vt. 330; Mays v.
Commonwealth, 82 Va. 550; State v. Smith, 184 Wis. 664.
The usual ground of such decisions is that "While a defendant may waive his right to jury trial, he can not by
such waiver confer jurisdiction to try him upon a tribunal
which has no such jurisdiction by law." Harris v. People,
128 Ill. 585.
There are no decisions of this Court which lend support
to the view that the absence of express statutory provision
for the waiver of a jury or the existence of statutory provisions prescribing jury trial deprives the court sitting
without a jury of jurisdiction. Indeed, its decisions tend
to uphold the validity of such a waiver under the general
statutes prescribing trial by jury in the lower federal
courts.
Under the provisions of the Judiciary Acts, it has been
held by this Court in both criminal and civil cases that a
court sitting without a jury is fully organized and has
jurisdiction to determine the controversy before it.
Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65; Guild v. Frontin,18
How. 135; Campbell v. Boyreau, 21 How. 223. See also
Rogers v. United States, 141 U. S. 54S and Campbell v.
United States; 224 U. S. 99.
Trials in civil cases without juries under waivers which
are not in writing axe still permissible, although in such
cases the only questions open on appeal are those which
arise on the process, pleadings, or judgment. Kearney v.
Case, 12 Wall. 275; Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604;
Comm'rs of Road District v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., 257
U. S. 547; Law v. United States, 266 U. S. 494; Duignan
v. United States, 274 U. S. 195.
These cases are of significance on the statutory question, because of the fact that the statutory provisions re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U.S.

lating to jury trial (so far as oral waivers are concerned)
are the same in both civil and criminal cases.
The result of the cases above cited is that the court,
sitting without a jury upon the waiver of the parties, has
jurisdiction and is fully organized to try the case.
On the facts of the present case there has been no substantial departure from the mode of trial by jury. Even
if waiver of the entire jury in advance of trial were held
to be unauthorized either by the Constitution or by the
statutes, defendants' right to waive an irregularity of the
sort here involved should be recognized.
The considerations above stated have led many state
courts to hold that where, through unavoidable and
unforeseeable circumstances, a juror has become unable
to serve, the defendant may validly waive his continued
presence and the verdict of the remaining eleven is valid.
Many of these cases were decided on grounds equally
applicable to the waiver of the entire jury. But in others
the rationale of the decision seems to be that there has
been a substantial compliance with the system of trial by
jury.
In the following cases a verdict rendered by eleven
members of a jury with the consent of the defendant was
upheld: State v. Kaufman, 51 Iowa 578; State v. Grossheim, 79 Iowa 75; State v. Browman, 191 Iowa 608; Commonwealth v. Dailey, 12 Cush. 80; Commonwealth v.
Lawless, 258 Mass. 262; State v. Sackett, 39 Minn. 69;
Miller v. State, 116 Neb. 702; State v. Borowsky, 11 Nev.
119; State v. Baer, 103 Oh. St. 585; Commonwealth v.
Egan, 281 Pa. 251; Commonwealth v. Beard, 48 Pa. Sup.
Ct. 319; State v. Ross, 47 S. D. 188; State v. Tiedeman,
49 S. D. 356.
On the other hand, a number of state decisions have
taken the opposite position. Some of these cases are distinguishable for it appears that the trial began with less
than twelve jurors. Cleghorn v. State, 22 Ala. App. 439;

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Argument for the United States.

Brown v. State, 16 Ind. 496; Hunt v. State, 61 Miss. 577;
State v. Sanders, 243 S. W. 771; see also State v. Wyndham, 80 W. Va. 482. But in other cases it appears that
the presence of the twelfth juror was waived during the
course of the trial. Allen v. State, 54 ind. 461; State v.
Mansfield, 41 Mo. 470; Cancemi v. People, 18 N. Y. 128;
State v. Rogers, 162 N. C. 656; State v. Hall, 137 S. C. 261;
Jones v. State, 52 Tex. Cr. Rep. 303; Dunn v. State, 88
Tex. Cr. Rep. 21; State v. Ellis, 22 Wash. 129; Jennings v.
State, 134 Wis. 307.
In Kansas the waiver of one juror during the trial has
been held valid in the case of a misdemeanor, State v.
Wells, 69 Kan. 792, but invalid in that of a felony. State
v. Simons, 61 Kan. 752. Cf. Murphy v. Commonwealth,
1 Met. 365; Tyra v. Commonweal'th, 2 Met. 1; Phipps v.
Commonwealth, 205 Ky. 832; Branham v. Commonwealth, 209 Ky. 734; Jackson v. Commonwealth, 221 Ky.
823.
There is a conflict of decisions under the Federal Constitution. Dickinson v." United States, 159 Fed. 801;
Territory v. Ah Wah, 4 Mont. 149; Territory v. Soga, 20
Hawaii 71; Territorjjv. Ortiz, 8 N. M. 154. Cf. State v.
Kaufman, 51 Iowa 578; State v. Carman, 63 Iowa 130;
State v. Sanigan, 66 Iowa 426; State v. Grossheim, 79
Iowa 75; State v. Browman, 191 Iowa 608; State v. Williams, 195 Iowa 374; State v. Stricker, 196 Iowa 290;
Commonwealth v. Dailey, 12 Cush. 80; Commonwealth v.
Rowe, 257 Mass. 172; Commonwealth v. Lawless, 258
Mass. 262; State v. Borowsky, 11 Nev. 119; Commonwealth v. Beard, 48 Pa. Sup. Ct. 319; Commonwealth v.
Egan, 281 Pa. 251; Commonwealth v. Hall, 291 Pa. 341;
State v. Baer, 103 Oh. St. 585; State v. Ross, 47 S. D. 188;
State v. Tiedeman, 49 S. D. 356; Queenan v. Oklahoma,
190 U. S. 548.
That a tribunal consisting of a judge and eleven jurors
is not, as defendants contend, without jurisdiction, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

that a trial before such a tribunal is not a nullity or a
mere arbitration is, we submit, clearly indicated by the
case of Riddle v. Dyche, 262 U. S. 333.
Even if it should be held that the Constitution requires
trial by jury in the case of all crimes in terms so mandatory that provision for waiver may not validly be
made, or that the present statutes preclude any other
form of trial, it is submitted that the present case presents no departure therefrom of such a substantial nature
that it could not be waived.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The defendants (plaintiffs in error) were indicted in a
federal district court, charged with conspiring to bribe a
federal prohibition agent, a crime punishable by imprisonpent in a federal penitentiary for a term of years. A
-Jury of twelve men was duly impaneled. The trial began
on October 19, 1927, and continued before the jury of.
twelve until October 26 following, at which time one
of the jurors, because of severe illness, became unable
to serve further as a juror. Thereupon it was stipulated
in open court by the government and counsel for defendants, defendants personally assenting thereto, that the
trial should proceed with the remaining eleven jurors. To
this stipulation the court consented after stating that
the defendants and the government both were entitled
to a constitutional jury of twelve, and that the absence'
of one juror would result in a mistrial unless both sides
should waive all objections and agree to a trial before the
remaining eleven jurors. Following this statement, the
stipulation was renewed in open court by all parties.

During the colloquy counsel for defefidants stated that
he had personally conferred with all counsel and with
each of the defendants individually, and it was the desire
of all to finish the trial of the case with the eleven jurors

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

if the defendants could waive the presence of the twelfth
juror.
The trial was concluded on the following day, and a
verdict of guilty was rendered by the eleven jurors. Each
of the defendants was sentenced to terms of imprisonment
in the penitentiary on the several counts of the indictment. An appeal was taken to the circuit court of appeals upon the ground that the defendants had no power
to waive their constitutional right to a trial by a jury of
twelve persons.
The court below, being in doubt as to the law applicable to the situation thus presented, and desiring the instruction of this court, has certified the following question:
"After the commencement of a trial in a Federal Court
before a jury of twelve men upon an indictment charging
a crime, punishment for which may involve a penitentiary sentence, if one juror becomes *incapacitated and
unable to further proceed with his work as a juror, can
defendant or defendants and the Government through
its official representative in charge of the case consent to
the trial proceeding to a finality with eleven jurors, and
can defendant 'or defendants thus waive the right to a
trial and verdict by a constitutional jury of twelve men?"
The question thus submitted is one of greaf importance,
in respect of which there are differences of opinion among
the various lower federal and state courts; but which this
court thus far has not been required definitely to answer.
There are, however, statements in some of our former
opinions, which, if followed, would require a negative
answer. These are referred to and relied upon by the
defendants.
The federal Constitution contains two provisions' relating to the subject. Article III, Section 2, Clause 3
provides:

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

"The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury; and such trial shall be held in
the State where the said crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the
trial shall be at such place or places as the Congress may
by law have directed."
The Sixth Amendment provides:
"In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy
the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial
jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall
have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the
nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with
the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process
for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel for his defense."
Passing for later consideration the question whether
these provisions, although varying in language, should
receive the same interpretation, and whether taken together or separately the effect is to guaranty a right or
establish a tribunal as an indispensable part of the government structure, we first inquire what is embraced by
the phrase "trial by jury." That it means a trial by
jury as understood and applied at common law, and includes all the essential elements as they were recognized
in this country and England when the Constitution was
adopted, is not open to question. Those elements were(1) that the jury should consist of twelve men, neither
more nor less; (2) that the trial should be in the presence
and under the superintendence of a judge having power
to instruct them as to the law and advise them in
respect of the facts; and (3) that the verdict should be
unanimous.
As to the first of these requisites, it is enough to cite
Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343, 350, where this court

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

reversed the conviction of a defendant charged with grand
larceny by a jury of eight men, saying:

"It must consequently be taken that the word 'jury'
and the words' trial by jury' were placed in the Constitution of the United States with reference to the meaning
affixed to them in the law as it was in this country and in
England at the time of the adoption of that instrument;
and that when Thompson committed the offence of grand

larceny in the Territory of Utah-which was under the
complete jurisdiction of the United States for all purposes
of government and legislation-the supreme law of the
land required that he should be tried by a jury composed
of not less than twelve persons."

The second requisite was expressly dealt with in Capital
Traction Company v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1, 13-16, where it is
said:
"'Trial by jury,' in the primary and usual sense of
the term at the common law and in the American constitutions, is not merely a trial by a jury of twelve men
before an officer vested with authority to cause them to
be summoned and empanelled, to administer oaths to
them and to the constable in charge, and to enter judgment and issue execution on their verdict; but it is a
trial by a jury of twelve men, in the presence and under
the superintendence of a judge empowered to instruct
them on the law and to advise them on the facts, and
(except on acquittal of a criminal charge) to set aside
their verdict if in his opinion it is against the law or
the evidence. This proposition has been so generally admitted, and so seldom contested, that there has been little occasion for its distinct assertion."
The third requisite was held essential in American
Publishing Company v. Fisher, 166 U. S. 464, 468; Springville v. Thomas, 166 U. S. 707; Maxwell v. Dow, 176
U. S. 581, 586.
98234o-:0-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

These common law elements are embedded in the constitutional provisions above quoted, and are beyond the
authority of the legislative department to destroy or
abridge. What was said by Mr. Justice Brewer in American Publishing Company v. Fisher,supra, with respect to
the requirement of unanimity, is applicable to the other
elements as well:
"Whatever may be true as to legislation which changes
any mere details of a jury trial, it is clear that a statute
which destroys this substantial and essential feature
thereof is one abridging the right."
Any such attempt is vain and ineffectual, whatever
form it may take. See In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 594.
The foregoing principles, while not furnishing a precise
basis for an answer to the question here presented, have
the useful effect of disclosing the nature and scope of the
problem, since they demonstrate the unassailable integrity of the establishment of trial by jury in all its parts,
and make clear that a destruction of one of the essential
elements has the effect of abridging the right in contravention of the Constitution. It follows that we must
reject in limine the distinction sought to be made between the effect of a complete waiver of a jury and consent to be tried by a less number than twelve, and must
treat both forms of waiver as in substance amounting to
the same thing. In other words, an affirmative answer
to the question certified logically requires the conclusion
that a person charged with "acrime punishable by imprisonment for a term of years may; consistently with the
constitutional provisions already quoted, waive trial by
a jury of twelve and consent to a trial by any lesser number, or by the court without a jury.
We are not unmindful of the decisions of some of the
state courts holding that it is competent for the defendant to waive the continued presence of a single juror who
has become unable to serve, while at the same time deny-

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

ing or doubting the validity of a waiver of a considerable
number of jurors, or of a jury altogether. See, for example, State v. Kaufman, 51 Iowa 578, 580, with which
compare State v. Williams, 195 Iowa 374; Commonwealth
ex rel. Ross v. Egan, 281 Pa. 251, 256, with which compare Commonwealth v. Hall, 291 Pa. 341. But in none
of these cases are we able to find any persuasive ground
for the distinction.
Other state courts, with; we think, better reason, have
adopted a contrary view. In State v. Baer, 103 Ohio St.
585, a person charged with manslaughter had been convicted by eleven jurors. The trial began with a jury of
twelve, but, one of the jurors becoming incapable of
service, the trial was concluded with the remaining eleven.
In disposing of the case, the state supreme court thought
it necessary to consider the broad question (p. 589):
". .. whether the right of trial by jury, as guaranteed
by Sections 5 and 10 of the Bill of Rights, can be waived."
After an extensive review of the authorities and a discussion of the question on principle, the court concluded
that since it was permissible for an accused person to
plead guilty and thus waive any trial, he must necessarily
be able to waive a jury trial.
In Jennings v. State, 134 Wis. 307, 309, where, again,
a juror during the trial was excused from service because
of illness, and the case was continued and concluded before the remaining eleven, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin also disposed of the case as involving the power
of the defendant to waive a jury altogether, saying:
"It seems necessarily to follow that if a person on trial
in a criminal case has no power to waive a jury he has
no right to be tried by a less number than a commonlaw jury of twelve, and when he puts himself on the
country it requires a jury of twelve to comply with the
demands of the constitution. The fact that the jury in

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the instant case had the required number of twelve up
to the stage in the trial when the cause was to be submitted to them under the instructions of the court cannot operate to satisfy the constitutional demand. At
this point the trial was incomplete, for the very essential
duty of having the jury deliberate upon the evidence
and agree upon a verdict respecting defendant's guilt or
innocence remained unperformed. Without the verdict of
a jury of twelve it cannot be said to be a verdict of the
jury required by the constitution. Such a verdict is
illegal and insufficient to support a judgment."
We deem it unnecessary to cite other cases which deal
with the problem from the same point of view.
A constitutional jury means twelve men as though
that number had been specifically named; and it follows
that when reduced to eleven it ceases to be such a jury
quite as effectively as though the number had been reduced to a single person. This conclusion seems self evident, and no attempt has been made to overthrow it save
by what amounts to little more than a suggestion that by
reducing the number of the jury to eleven or ten the infraction of the Constitution is slight, and the courts may
be trusted to see that the process of reduction shall not
be unduly extended. But the constitutional question cannot thus be settled by the simple process of ascertaining
that the infraction assailed is unimportant when compared with similar but more serious infractions which
might be conceived. To uphold the voluntary reduction
of a jury from twelve to eleven upon the ground that the
reduction-though it destroys the jury of the Constitution-is only a slight reduction, is not to interpret that
instrument but to disregard it. It is not our province
to measure the extent to which the Constitution has been
contravened and ignore the violation, if in our opinion,
it is not, relatively, as bad as it might have been.

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

We come, then, to the crucial inquiry: Is the effect
of the constitutional provisions in respect of trial by jury
to establish a tribunal as a part of the frame of government, or only to guaranty to the accused the right to
such a trial? If the former, the question certified by the
lower court must, without more, be answered in the negative.
Defendants strongly rely upon the language of this
court in Thompson v. Utah, supra, at page 353:
"It is said that the accused did not object, until after
verdict, to a trial jury composed of eight persons; and
therefore he should not be heard to say that his. trial by
such a jury was in violation of his constitutional rights.
It is sufficient to say that it was not in the power of one
accused of felony, by consent expressly given or by his
silence, to authorize a jury of only eight persons to pass
upon the question of his guilt. The law in force, when
this crime was committed, did not permit any tribunal to
deprive him of his liberty, except one constituted of a
court and a jury of twelve persons."
But this statement, though positive in form, is not authoritative. The case involved the validity of a statute
dispensing with the common law jury of twelve and providing for trial by a jury of eight. There was no contention that the defendant, Thompson, had consented to
the trial, but only that he had not objected until after
verdict. The effect of an express consent on his part to
a trial by a jury of eight was not involved-indeed he had
been silent only under constraint of the statute-and
what the court said in respect of that matter is, obviously,
an obiter dictum.
Defendants also cite as supporting their contention two
decisions of federal circuit courts of appeal, namely, Low
v. United States, 169 Fed. 86; and Dickinson v. United
States, 159 Fed. 801.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

In the first of these cases the opinion, rendered by
Judge Lurton, afterwards a justice of this court, definitely
holds that the waiver of trial of a crime by jury involves
setting aside the tribunal constituted by law for that purpose and the substitution by consent of one unknown to
the law, and that this cannot be done by consent of the
accused and the district attorney. "Undoubtedly," the
opinion concludes, "the accused has a right to waive
everything which pertains to form and much which is of
the structure of a trial. But he may not waive that which
concerns both himself and the public, nor any matter
which involves fundamentally the jurisdiction of the
court. The jurisdiction of the court to pronounce a judgment or conviction for crime, when there has been a plea
of not guilty, rests upon the foundation of a verdict by a
jury. Without that basis the judgment is void." This
is strong language fromt a judge whose opinion is entitled
to great respect.
In the second case, involving the completion of a trial
by consent with a jury of eleven persons, substantially
the same was held; but in a scholarly and thoughtful
dissenting opinion, Judge Aldrich reviews the common
law practice upon the subject antedating the Constitution, and in the course of his opinion, after referring to
Article III, Section 2, and the Sixth Amendment, says
(pp. 813-814, 820-821):
"The aim of the constitutional safeguards in question
is a full, fair, and public trial, and one which shall reasonably and in all substantial ways safeguard the interests
of the state and the life and liberty of accused parties.
Whether the idea is expressed in words or not, as is done
in some of the bills of rights and constitutions, a free and
fair trial only means a trial as free and fair as the lot of
humanity will admit.
"All will doubtless agree, at least the unquestioned authority is that way, that these protective provisions of

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution are not so imperative that an accused
shall be tried by jury when he desires to plead guilty; or
that his trial, in the event of trial, shall be held invalid
for want of due process of law, based upon the ground
that he was not confronted with his witnesses when he
had waived that constitutional right and consented to the
use of depositions; or because he had not had compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor when he had
waived that; or because he had not had the assistance of
counsel when he had intelligently refused such constitutional privilege and insisted upon the right to go to trial
without counsel; or upon the ground that he had not had
a speedy trial when he had petitioned the court for delay;
or that his trial was not public when he had consented to,
or silently acquiesced in, a trial in a courthouse with a
capacity for holding only 12 members of the public rather
than 1200.
"Beyond question, the right of an accused in a case like
this to have 12 jurors throughout is so far absolute as
a constitutional right that he may have it by claiming
it, or even by withholding consent to proceed without
that number, and doubtless, under a constitutional government like ours, the interests of the community so far
enter into any incidental departure from that number, in the course of the trial, as to require the discretionary approval of the court, and that the proper representative of the government should join the accused
in consent."
"It is probable that the history and debates of the
constitutional convention will not be. found to sustain
the idea that the constitutional safeguards in question
* were in any sense established as something necessary to
protect the state or the community from the supposed
danger that accused parties would waive away the interest
which the government has in their liberties, and go to jail.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

"There is not now, and never was, any practical danger of that. Such a theory, at least in its application
to modern American conditions, is based more upon useless fiction than upon reason. And when the idea of giving countenance to the right of waiver, as something
necessary to a reasonable protection of the rights and
liberties of accused, and as something intended to be
practical and useful in the administration of the rights
of the parties, has been characterized as involving innovation 'highly dangerous,' it would, as said by Judge Seevers in State v. Kaufman, -51 Iowa, 578, 581, 2 N. W.
275, 277, 33 Am. Rep. 148, 'have been much more convincing and satisfactory if we had been informed why it
would be highly dangerous.' "
"Traced to its English origin, it would probably be
found, so far as the right of waiver was there withheld
from accused parties, that in a very large sense the reason
for it was that conviction of crime, under the old English
system, operated to outlaw and to attaint the blood and
to work a forfeiture of official titles of inheritance, thus
affecting the rights of third parties.
" In every substantial sense our constitutional provisions in respect to jury trials in criminal cases are for
the protection of 'the interests of the accused, and as
such they may, in a limited and guarded measure, be
waived by the party sought to be benefited."
The record of English ahd colonial jurisprudence antedating the Constitution will be searched in vain for evidence that trial by jury in criminal cases was regarded
as a part of the structure of government, as distinguished
from a right or privilege of the accused. On the contrary, it uniformly was regarded as a valuable privilege
bestowed upon the person accused of crime for the purpose of safeguarding hirm against the oppressive power
of the King and the arbitrary or partial judgment of the

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

court. Thus Blackstone, who held trial by jury both
in civil and criminal cases in such esteem that he called
it "the glory of the English law," nevertheless looked
upon it as a "privilege," albeit "the most transcendent
privilege which any subject can enjoy." Book III, p.
379. And Judge Story, writing at a time when the adoption of the Constitution was still in the memory of men
then living, speaking of trial by jury in criminal cases said:
"When our more immediate ancestors removed to
America, they brought this great privilege with them, as
their birthright and inheritance, as a part of that admirable common law which had fenced round and interposed
barriers on every side against the approaches of arbitrary
power. It is now incorporated into all our State constitutions as a fundamental right, and the Constitution of
the United States would have been justly obnoxious to
the most conclusive objection if it had not recognized
and- confirmed it in the most solemn terms." 2 Story on
§ 1779.
the Constitution,
In the light of the foregoing it is reasonable to conclude
that the framers of the Constitution simply were intent
upon preserving the right of trial by jury primarily for
the protection of the accused. If not, and their intention
went beyond this and included the purpose of establishing the jury for the trial of crimes as an integral and
inseparable part of the court, instead of one of its instrumentalities, it is strange that nothing to that effect appears in contemporaneous literature or in any of the debates or innumerable discussions of the time. This is all
the more remarkable when we recall the minute scrutiny
to which every provision of the proposed Constitution
was subjected. The reasonable inference is that the concern of the framers of the Constitution was to make clear
that the right of trial by jury should remain inviolable,
to which end no language was deemed too imperative.
That this was the purpose of the Third Article is rendered

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

highly probable by a consideration of the form of expression used in the Sixth Amendment.
"In all crimiral prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy
the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial
jury . . ."
This provision, which deals with trial by jury clearly
in terms of priilege, although occurring later than that
in respect of jury trials contained in the original Constitution, is hot to be regarded as modifying or altering the
earlier provision; and there is no reason for thinking such
was within its purpose. The first ten amendments and
the original Constitution were substantially contemporaneous and should be construed in pari materia. So construed, the latter provision fairly may be regarded as reflecting the meaning of the former. In other words, the
two provisions mean substantially the same thing; and
this is the effect of the holding of this court in Callan v.
Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 549, where it is said:
"And we do not think that the amendment was intended to supplant that part of the third article which
relates to trial by jury. There is no necessary conflict
between them."
Upon this view of the constitutional provisions we conclude that Article III, Section 2, is not jurisdictional, but
'was meant to confer a right upon the accused which he
may forego at his election. To deny his power to do so,
is to convert a privilege into an imperative requirement.
But the question remains whether the court is empowered to try the case without a jury; that is to say,
whether Congress has vested jurisdiction to that end.
We think it has, although some of the state, as well
as some of the federal, decisions suggest a different
conclusion.
By the Constitution, Article III, Section 1, the judicial
power of the United States is vested in the Supreme Court
and such inferior courts as Congress may from time to

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the 'Court.

time ordain and establish. In pursuance of that authority, Congress, at an early day, established the district and circuit courts, and by § 24 of the Judicial Code
(U. S. Code, Title 28, § 41 (2)), the circuit courts having
been abolished, expressly conferred upon the district
courts jurisdiction "pf all crimes and offenses cognizable
under the authority of the United States." This is a
broad and comprehensive grant, and gives the courts
named power to try every criminal case cognizable under
the authority of the United States, subject to the controlling provisions of the Constitution. In the absence
of a valid consent the district court cannot proceed except
with a jury, not because a jury is necessary to its jurisdiction, but because the accused is entitled by the terms of
the Constitution to that mode of trial. Since, however,
the right to a jury trial may be waived, it would be unreasonable to leave the court powerless to give effect to
the waiver and itself dispose of the case. We are of
opinion that the court has authority in the exercise of a
sound discretion to accept the waiver, and, as a necessary
corollary, to proceed to the trial and determination of the
case with a reduced number or without a jury; and that
jurisdiction to that end is vested by the foregoing statutory provisions. The power of waiver being established,
this is the clear import of the decision of this court in
Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65, 70-71.
"By section 563, Rev. Stat., [superseded by § 24, Judicial Code] the District Courts are ,given jurisdiction
'of all crimes and offenses cognizable under the authority
of the United States, committed within their respective
districts, or upon the high ses, the punishment of which
is not capital.' There is no act of Congress requiring that
the trial of all offenses shall be by jury, and a court is
fully organized and competent for the transactionof business without the presence of a jury."

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

See also In re Belt, 159 U. S. 95, and Riddle v. Dyche,
262 U. S. 333, both of which are out of harmony with the
notion that the presence of a jury is a constitutional prerequisite to the jurisdiction of the court in a criminal
case. The first of these cases involved the validity of an
act of Congress authorizing waiver of a jury in criminal
cases in the District of Columbia. The Court of Appeals
of that District upheld the statute in Belt v. United
States, 4 D. C. App. Cas. 25. Leave was asked of this
court to file a petition for writ of habeas corpus. Upon
this application, the question to be answered was (p. 97):
"Does the ground of this application go to the jurisdiction or authority of the Supreme Court of the District, or rather is it not an allegation of mere error? If
the latter, it cannot be reviewed in this proceeding. In
re Schneider, 148 U. S. 162, and cases cited." After reviewing authorities, it was held that the Supreme Court
of the District had jurisdiction to determine the validity
of the act which authorized the waiver, and that its action
could not be reviewed on habeas corpus.
In the second case, Riddle, on habeas corpus, assailed
a conviction in a federal district court upon the ground
that the jury was composed of only eleven men. This
court held that the trial court had jurisdiction, and a
record showing upon its face that a lawful jury had been
impaneled, sworn and charged could not be collaterally
impeached. The remedy was by writ of error.
This conclusion in respect of the 'jurisdiction of the
courts, notwithstanding the peremptory words of the
Third. Article of the Constitution, is fortified by a consideration of certain provisions of the Judiciary Act of
1789. That act was passed shortly after the organization of the government under the Constitution, and on
the day preceding the proposal of the first ten amendments by the first Congress. Among -the members of
that Congress were many who had participated in the

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

convention which framed the Constitution and the act
has always been considered, in relation to that instrument, as a contemporaneous exposition of the highest
authority. Capital Traction Company v. Hof, supra,pp.
9-10, and cases cited. Section 9 of that act provides that
"the trial of issues in [of] fact, in the district courts,
in all causes except civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, shall be by jury." Section 12 provides
that "the trial of issues in [of] fact in the circuit courts
shall, .in all suits, except those of equity, and of admiralty,
and maritime jurisdiction, be by jury."
It will be observed that this language is mandatory in
form, and is precisely the same as that of Article III,
Section 2, of the Constitution. It is fair to assume that
the framers of the statute, in using the words of the Constitution, intended they should have the same meaning;
and if the purpose of the latter was jurisdictional, it is
not easy to avoid the conclusion that the purpose of the
former was the same. But this court has always held,
beginning at an early day, that, notwithstanding the imperative language of the statute, it was competent for
the parties to waive a trial by jury. The early cases are
collected in a footnote to Kearney v. Case, 12 Wall. 275,
281, following the statement:
"Undoubtedly both the Judiciary Act and the amendment to the Constitution secured the right to either party
in a suit at common law to a trial by jury, and we are
also of opinion that the statute of 1789 intended to point
out this as the mode of trial in issues of fact in such
cases. Numerous decisions, however, had settled that
this right to a jury trial might be waived by the parties,
and that the judgment of the court in such cases should
be valid."
The Seventh Amendment, which is here referred to,
provides, in respect of suits at common law involving a
value exceeding twenty dollars, that "the right of trial

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

by jury shall be preserved"; and it is significant that
this language and the positive provision of the statute
that "the trial of issues of fact . . .shall be by jury"
were regarded as synonymous.
Another. ground frequently relied upon for denying
the power of a person accused of a serious crime to
waive trial by jury is that such a proceeding is against
public policy. The decisions are conflicting. The leading case in support of the proposition, and one which
has influenced other decisions advancing similar views,
is Cancemi v. The People, 18 N. Y. 128, 137-138. In
that case Cancemi was indicted for the crime of murder.
After a jury had been impaneled and sworn, and the
trial begun, under a stipulation made by the prisoner
and his counsel and counsel for the people, and with the
express consent and request of the prisoner, a juror was
withdrawn, and a verdict subsequently rendered by the
remaining eleven jurors. On appeal a judgment based
upon this verdict was reversed. The case was decided
in 1858, and the. question was regarded by the court as
one of first impression. The following excerpt from the
opinion indicates the basis of the decision:
"The state, the public, have an interest in the preservation of the liberties and the lives of the citizens, and
will not allow them to be taken away 'without due
process of law' (Const., art. 1, § 6), when forfeited, as
they may be, as a punishment for crimes. Criminal
prosecutions proceed on the assumption of such a forfeiture, which, to sustain them, must be ascertained and
declared as the law has' prescribed. Blackstone (vol. 4,
189) says: 'The king has an interest in the preservation of all his subjects.' . . . Objections to jurors may
be waived; the court may be substituted for triers to
dispose of challenges to jurors; secondary in place of
primary evidence may be received; admissions of facts

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

303

Opinion of the Court.

are allowed; and in similar particulars, as well as in relation to mere formal proceedings generally, consent will
render valid, what without it would be erroneous. A
plea of guilty to any indictment, whatever may be the
grade of the crime, will be received and acted upon if
it is made clearly to appear that the nature and effect
of it are understood by the accused. In such a case the
preliminary investigation of a grand jury, with the admission of the accusation in the indictment, is supposed
to be a sufficient safeguard to the public interests. But
when issue is joined upon an indictment, the trial must
be by the tribunal and in the mode which the constitution and laws provide, without any essential change. The
public officer prosecuting for the people has no authority
to consent to such a change, nor has the defendant.
"Applying the above reasoning to the present case, the
conclusion necessarily follows, that the consent of the
plaintiff in error to the withdrawal of one juror, and that
the remaining eleven might render a verdict, could not
lawfully be recognized by the court, at the circuit, and
was a, nullity. If a deficiency of one juror might be
waived, there appears to be no good reason why a deficiency of eleven might not be; and it is difficult to say
why, upon the same principle, the entire panel might
not be dispensed with, and the trial committed to the
court alone. It would be a highly dangerous innovation,
in reference to criminal cases, upon the ancient and invaluable institution of trial by jury, and the constitution
and laws establishing and securing that mode of trial,
for the court to allow of any number short of a full panel
of twelve jurors, and we think it ought not to be tolerated."
A decision flatly to the contrary, and one fairly representative of others to the same effect, is State v. Kaufman, 51 Iowa 578. The defendant there was indicted

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

for forgery. Upon the trial, one of the jurors, being ill,
was discharged with the consent of the defendant, and
the trial concluded with the remaining eleven. There
was a verdict of guilty. Upon appeal the verdict was
upheld. The authorities upon the question are reviewed,
and in the course of the opinion the court says (pp. 579580):
"A plea of guilty ordinarily dispenses with a jury trial,
and it is thereby waived. This, it seems to us, effectually
destroys the force of the thought that 'the State, the
public, have an interest in the preservation of the lives
and the liberties of the citizens, and will not allow them
to be taken away without due process of law.' The same
thought is otherwise expressed by Blackstone, vol. 4, p.
189, that 'the king has an interest in the preservation of
all his subjects.'
"It matters not whether the defendant is, in fact, guilty;
the plea of guilty is just as effectual as if such was
the case. Reasons other than the fact that he is guilty
may induce a defendant to so plead, and thereby the State
may be deprived of the services of the citizen, and yet
the State never actually interferes in such case, and the
right of the defendant to so plead has never been doubted.
He must be permitted to judge for himself in this respect.
So in the case at bar. The defendant may have consented to be tried by eleven jurors, because his witnesses
were then present, and he might not be able to get them
again, or that it was best he should be tried by the jury
as thus constituted. Why should he not be permitted to
do so? Why hamper him in this respect? Why restrain
his liberty or right to do as he believed to be for his interest? Whatever rule is adopted affects not only the
defendant, but all others similarly situated, no matter
how much they may desire to avail themselves of the
right to do what the defendant desires to repudiate.
We are unwilling to establish such a rule."

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

Referring to the statement in the Cancemi case, that
it would be a highly dangerous innovation to allow any
number short of a full panel of twelve jurors and one not
to be tolerated, it is said (p. 581):
'"This would have been much more convincing and
satisfactory if we had been informed why it would be
'highly dangerous,' and should 'not be tolerated,' or, at
least, something which had a tendency in that direction.
For if it be true, as stated, it certainly would not be difficult to give a satisfactory reason in support of the strong
language used."
See also State v. Sackett, 39 Minn. 69, where the court
concludes its discussion of the subject by saying (p. 72):
"The wise and beneficent provisions found in the constitution and statutes, designed for the welfare and protection of the accused, may be waived, in matters of form
and substance, when jurisdiction has been acquired, and
within such limits as the trial court, exercising a sound
discretion in behalf of those before it, may permit. The
defendants, having formally waived a juror, and stipulated to try their case with 11, cannot now claim that
there was a fatal irregularity in their trial."
It is difficult to see why the fact, frequently suggested.
that the accused may plead guilty and thus dispense with
i trial altogether, does not effectively disclose the fallacy
)fthe public policy contention; for if the state may interpose the claim of public interest between the accused and
his desire to waive a jury trial, a fortiori it should be able
to interpose a like claim between him and his deterinination to avoid any form of trial by admitting his guilt. If
he be free to decide the question for himself in the latter
case, notwithstanding the interest of society in the pres3ervation of his life and liberty, why shouldihe be denied the
power to do so in the former? It is no answer to say
that by pleading guilty there is nothing left for a jury to
try, for that simply ignores the question, which is not
98L134 -3o

-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

what is the effect of the plea? the answer to which is
fairly obvious, -but, in view of the interest of the public
in the life and liberty of the accused, can the plea be accepted and acted upon, or must the question of guilt be
submitted to a jury at all events? Moreover, the suggestion is wholly beside the point, which is, that public
policy is not so inconsistent as to permit the accused to
,dispense with every form of trial by a plea of guilty, and
yet forbid him to dispense with a particularform of trial
by consent.
The truth is that the theory of public policy embodies
a doctrine of vague and variable quality, and, unless deducible in. the given circumstances from constitutional or
statutory provisions, should be accepted as the basis of
a judicial determination, if at all, only with the utmost
circumspection. The public policy of one generation may
not, under changed conditions, be the public policy of
another.
It may be conceded, at least generally, that under the
rule of the common law the accused was not permitted to
waive trial by jury, as generally he was not permitted to
waive any right which was intended for his protection.
Nevertheless, in the Colonies such a waiver and trial by
the court without a jury was by no means unknown, as
the many references contained in the b, ief of the Solicitor
General conclusively show. But this phase of the matter
we do not stop to consider, for the rule of the common
law, whether exclusive or subject to exceptions, was justified by conditions which no longer exist; and as the Supreme Court of Nevada well said in Reno Smelting Works
v. Stevenson, 20 Nev. 269, 279:
"It is contrary to the spirit of the common law itself
to apply a rule founded on a particular reason to a law
when that reason utterly fails--cessante ratione legis,
cessat ipsa lex."

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

The maxim seems strikingly apposite to the question
iere under review. Among other restraints at common
law, the accused could not testify in his own behalf; in
felonies he was not allowed counsel (IV Sharswood's
Blackstone, 355, Note 14), the judge in such cases occupying the place of counsel for the prisoner, charged with
the responsibility of seeing that the prisoner did not suffer
from lack of other counsel (id.); and conviction of crime
worked an attaint and forfeiture of official titles of inheritance, which, as Judge Aldrich points out (quotation
supra), constituted in a large sense the reason for withholding from accused parties the right of waiver.
These conditions have ceased to exist, and with their
disappearance justification for the old rule no longer rests
upon a substantial basis. In this respect we fully agree
with what was said by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
in Hack v. State, 141 Wis. 346, 351-352:
"The ancient doctrine that the accused could waive
nothing was unquestionably founded upon the anxiety
of the courts to see that no innocent man should be convicted. It arose in those days when the accused could not
testify in his own behalf, was not furnished counsel, and
was punished, if convicted, by the death penalty or some
other grievous punishment out of all proportion to the
gravity of his crime. Under such circumstances it was
well, perhaps, that such a rule should exist, and well that
every technical requirement should be insisted on, when
the state demanded its meed of blood. Such a course
raised up a sort of a barrier which the court could utilize
when a prosecution was successful which ought not to
have been successful, or when a man without money,
without counsel, without ability to summon witnesses,
and not permitted to tell his own story, had been unjustly
convicted, but yet under the ordinary principles of waiver,

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

as applied to civil matters, had waived every defect in the
proceedings.
"Thanks to the humane policy of the modern criminal
law we have changed all these conditions. The man
now charged with crime is furnished the most cQmplete
opportunity for making his defense. He may testify in
his own behalf; if he be poor, he may have counsel furnished him by the state, and may have his witnesses summoned and paid for by the state; not infrequently he is
thus furnished counsel more able than the attorney for
the state. In short, the modern law has taken as great
pains to surround the accused person with the means to
effectively make his defense as the ancient law took pains
to prevent that consummation. The reasons which in
some sense justified the former attitude of the courts have
therefore disappeared, save perhaps in capital cases, and
the question is, Shall we adhere to the principle based
upon conditions no longer existing? No sound reason
occurs to us why a person accused of a lesser crime or
misdemeanor, who comes into court with his attorney,
fully advised of all his-rights and furnished with every
means of making his defense, should not be held to waive
a right or privilege for which he does not ask, just as a
party to a civil action waives such a right by not asking
for it."
The view that power to waive a trial by jury in criminal cases should be denied on grounds of public policy
must be rejected as unsound.
It is not denied that a jury trial may be waived in the
case of petty offenses, but the contention is that the rule
is otherwise in the case of crimes of the magnitude of the
one here under consideration. There are decisions to that
effect, and also decisions to the contrary. The conflict
is marked and direct. Schick v. United States, supra, is
thought to favor the contention. There the prosecution

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

309

Opinion of the Court.

was for a violation of the Oleomargarine Act (24 Stat.
209), punishable by fine only. By agreement in writing
a jury was waived and the issue submitted to the court.
Judgment was for the United States. This court held
that the offense was a petty one, and sustained the waiver.
It was said that the word " crimes" in Article III, Section 2, of the Constitution, should be read in the light of
the common law, and so read, it does not include petty
offenses; and that neither the constitutional provisions
nor any rule of public policy prevented the defendant
from waiving a jury trial. The question whether the
power of waiver extended to serious offenses was not directly involved, and is not concluded by that decision.
Mr. Justice Harlan, in a dissenting opinion, after reviewing the authorities, concluded (p. 83) that "The
grounds upon which the decisions rest are, upon principle, applicable alike in. cases of felonies and misdemeanors, although the consequences to the accused may
be more evident as well as more serious in the former
than in the latter cases."
Although we reject the general view of the dissenting
opinion that a waiver of jury trial is not valid in any
criminal case, we accept the foregoing statement as entirely sound. We are unable to find in the decisions any
convincing ground for holding that a waiver is effective
in misdemeanor cases but not effective in the case of
felonies. In most of the decisions no real attempt is
made to establish a distinction, beyond the assertion that
public policy favors the power of waiver in the former
but denies it in the latter because of the more serious
consequences in the form of punishment which may
ensue. But that suggested differentiation, in the light
of what has now been said, seems to us more fanciful
than real. The Schick case, it is true, dealt with a petty
offense, but, in view of the conclusions we have already

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

reached and stated, the observations of the court (pp.
71-72) have become equally pertinent where a felony is
involved:
"Article six of the amendments, as we have seen, gives
the accused a right to a trial by jury. But the same
article gives him the further right 'to be confronted with
the witnesses against him . . . and to have the assistance of counsel.' Is it possible that an accased cannot
admit and be bound by the admission that a witness not
present would testify to certain facts? Can it be that
if he does not wish the assistance of counsel and waives
it, the trial is invalid? It seems only necessary to ask
these questions to answer them. When there is no constitutional or statutory mandate, and no public policy
prohibiting, an accused may waive any privilege which
he is given the right to enjoy."
In Commonwealth v. Beard, 48 Pa. Super. Ct. 319, the
prosecution was for conspiracy, and there, as here, one
of the jurors was discharged and the trial concluded with
the remaining eleven. Judgment on a verdict of conviction was sustained. The court, after reviewing the
conflicting decisions, was unable to find any good reason
for differentiating in the matter of waiver between the
two classes of crimes. We fully endorse its concluding
words upon that subject (pp. 323-324):
"It surely cannot be true that the public is interested
in the protection of an accused in proportion to the
magnitude of his offending-that its solicitude goes out
to the great offender but not to the small-that there
is a difference in point of sacredness between constitutional rights when asserted by one charged with a grave
crime and when asserted by one charged with a lesser
one. Hence, when it is held in Schick v. U. S., 195
U. S. 65 (24 Sup. Ct. Repr. 826), that in trials for the
lowest grades of offenses the accused may waive, not only
the continued presence of the full number of jurors re-

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

quired to make up a jury, but the right to trial by jury,
the only possible conclusion is that the purely theoretical
element of public concern, as potential to override the
accused's own free choice and render him effectually unfree even before conviction and sentence, cannot be regarded as in reality much of a factor in any case."
This view of the matter subsequently had the approval
of the supreme court of the state in Commonwealth ex
rel. Ross v. Egan, 281 Pa. 251. After noting the conflict of authority, and that a waiver has been held to be
effective in a number of states which are named, it is
there said (pp. 255, 256, 257):
"A defendant is supposed to understand his rights,
and may be aided, if he so desires, by counsel to advise
him. There are many legal provisions for his security
and benefit which he may dispense with absolutely, as,
for instance, his right to plead guilty and submit to
sentence without any trial whatsoever."
"The theory upon which the opposing cases are decided seems to rest on the proposition that society at
large is as much interested in an impartial trial of a
defendant, who may be sentenced to imprisonment, as
he himself is, and therefore no permission to waive any
right, when charged with a felony, should be accorded
to him. There may be reason for applying. this rule to
capital cases, as has been done in Pennsylvania, but
such a principle ought not to be invoked to relieve those
charged with lesser offenses, such as larceny (though
technically denominated a felony), from the consequences
of their own voluntary act, and where it appears by the
record that consent to the course pursued was freely
given, the defendant should not be heard thereafter to
complain."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

"The solution of the question depends upon the determination whether a. trial by less than twelve is an
irregularity or a nullity. If the latter be held, no sentence imposed may be sustained, but the contrary is true
if the former and correct conclusion be reached. In the
case of misdemeanors, the Superior Court has sustained
the sentences where a voluntary vaiver appeared: Com.
v. Beard, supra. No real justification for a different
decision in the case of felonies, not capital, can be supported."
See also Commonwealth v. Rowe, 257 Mass. 172, 174176; State v. Ross, 47 S. D. 188, 192-193, involving a misdemeanor, but followed in State v. Tiedeman, 49 S. D.
356, 360, involving a felony.
In affirming the power of the defendant in any criminal case to waive a trial by a constitutional jury and
submit to trial by a jury of less than twelve persons, or
by the court, we do not mean to hold that the waiver must
be put into effect at all events. That perhaps sufficiently
appears already. Trial by jury is the normal and, with
occasional exceptions, the preferable mode of disposing
of issues of fact in criminal cases above the grade of petty
offenses. In such cases the value and appropriateness
of jury trial have been established by long experience,
and are not now to be denied. Not only must the right
of the accused to a trial by a constitutional jury be jealously preserved, but the maintenance of the jury as a
fact finding body in criminal cases is of such importance
and has such a place in our traditions, that, before any
waiver can become effective, the consent of government
counsel and the sanction of the court must be had, in
addition to the express and intelligent consent of the
defendant. And the duty of the trial court in that regard is not to be discharged as a mere matter of rote, but
with sound and advised discretion, with an eye to avoid
Un'easonable or undue departures from that mode of

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

trial or from any of the essential elements thereof, and
with a caution increasing in degree as the offenses dealt
with increase in gravity.
The question submitted must be answered in the
affirmative.
It is so ordered.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

participated in the consideration

and agreed to a disposition of the case in accordance with
this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, and MR.
JUSTICE STONE

MISSOURI

concur in the result.

EX REL.

MISSOURI INSURANCE COM-

PANY v. GEHNER, ASSESSOR OF THE CITY OF

ST. LOUIS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 222.

Argued February 26, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. A judgment of a state supreme court so construing a state statute
as to cause it to infringe federal rights is reviewable in this Court
even though the federal question was first presented to the state
court by a petition for rehearing which was denied without referring to the federal question, if the construction- was one that
the party- affected could not have anticipated and the federal
question was presented by him at the first opportunity. P. :320.
2. Property taxable by a State may not be taxed more heavily
because the owner owns also tax-exempt bonds of the United
States. P. 320.
3. A state statute providing generally that, in taxing the assets of insurance companies, the amounts of their legal reserves and unpaid
policy claims shall first be deducted, is unconstitutional in its application to an insurance company owning nontaxable United States
bonds if it require that the deduction, in suc.h case, shall be reduhed
by Ihe proportion tht the value of su.h bonds h:ars t) totl:dl assets,

