SURPLUS TRADING CO. v. COOK.
643

Syllabus.

quire corporate meetings to be called by reasonable notice
to stockholders. See Stow v. Wyse, 7 Conn. 214; Wiggin
v. First Freewill Baptist Church, 8 Metc. (Mass.) 301,
312; Stevens v. Eden Meeting-House Society, 12 Vt. 688,
689. That, we think, in the absence of a controlling decision of the highest court of Georgia, must be taken to be
the implied requirement of § 1.
Notice was in fact given in the present case, as appears
by the agreed statement of facts by mailing it fifteen days
before the meeting, addressed to petitioner at his address
last known to the bank. It does not appear whether he
received the notice. In the face of this record, we cannot
assume either that notice was not required by the law of
the state or that that actually given was insufficient.
In assailing the constitutionality of a state statute the
burden rests upon appellant to establish that it infringes
the constitutional guarantee which he invokes. If the
state court has not otherwise construed it and it is susceptible of an interpretation which conforms to constitutional
requirements, doubts must be resolved in favor of, and
not against the state. See Corporation Commission of
Oklahoma, etc. v. Lowe, etc., ante, p. 431; South Utah
Mines v. Beaver County, 262 U. S. 325, 331.
Affirmed.

SURPLUS TRADING COMPANY v. COOK,
SHERIFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 2. Argued November 21, 1928.-Decided June 2, 1930.
Under Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, of the Constitution, land purchased by
the United States for an Army -station, with the consent of
the legislature of the State in which it lies, comes under the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and private personal
property there situate can not be taxed by the State. P. 649.
174 Ark. 507, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Cook.

281 U. S.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas sustaining a tax on personal property located on a
federal military reservation.
ERROR

Mr. Charles D. Cherry argued the cause, and Messrs.
G. B. Rose, D. H. Cantrell, J. F. Loughborough, A. W.
Dobyns, and A. F. House were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Sam T. Poe, with whom Messrs. H. W. Applegate,
Attorney General of Arkansas, and Tom Poe were on the
hrief, for defendant in error.
The land in question was not acquired by the United
States in the manner contemplated by § 8, Art. I, cl. 17
of the Constitution. Ft. Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe,
114 U. S. 525. Therefore jurisdiction of the United
States over the reservation depends upon provisions of
the cession Act of Arkansas. Paliner v. Barrett, 162
U. .8. 399. That Act impliedly reserved the right to tax
privately owned personal property on the military
reservation.
The land was not actually purchased by the United
States, but Nias donated by public-spirited citizens of
Arkansas. " Purchase," as used in the Constitution,
means only acquisition by actual purchase. Ft. Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525.
Although the agreed statement of facts speaks of the
acquisition as by " purchase," this must be construed in
the light of the legislation of Congress, which shows no
money was appropriated or paid. Stipulation as to an
alleged fact will not be construed so as to allow one to
escape taxation when the legislation of Congress shows
the fact did not exist. Utah & N. Ry. Co. v. Fisher, 116
U. S. 28.
Tax exemptions are never lightly to be inferred.
•-Feiner v. Colonial Trust Co., 275 U. S. 232. A State

SURPLUS TRADING CO. v. COOK.
647

Opinion of the Court.

may tax personal property situated on a government
reservation within its limits and not belonging to the
United States or otherwise exempt. Thomas v. Gay, 169
U. S. 264; Wagoner v. Evans, 170 U. S. 588; Foster v.
Pryor, 189 U. S.325; Montana Catholic Missions v. Missoula County, 200 U. S. 118; Cassels v. Wilder, 23 Haw.
61; Rice v. Hammonds, 19 Okla. 419; County of Cherry
v. Thacher, 32 Neb. 350; Nikis v. Commonwealth, 144 Va.
618; Cosier v. McMillan, 22 Mont. 484; Noble v. Amoretti, 11 Wyo. 230; Oscar Daniels Co. v. Sault Ste. Marie,
208 Mich. 363; Ex parte Gaines, 56 Ark. 227.
MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was a suit by the sheriff and collector of taxes of
Pulaski County, Arkansas, to enforce payment by the
Surplus Trading Company of taxes for the years 1922 and
1923, with penalties, upon certain personal property.
The chancery court, in which the suit was brought, gave
a decree for the defendant, and on appeal the Supreme
Court of the State affirmed the decree as to the tax for
1923 and reversed it as to the tax for 1922 with a direction that a decree be entered for the plaintiff for the
mount of that tax and the penalty, both of which were
specified in the record, 174 Ark. 507.
The defendant resisted the collection of the tax for
1922 on the ground that the personal property on which
it was laid was located within Camp Pike-an army
mobilization, training and supply station of the United
States lying within the exterior limits of Pulaski
County-the lands in which had been purchased by the
United States, with the consent of the legislature of
the State, for the purpose of establishing, erecting and
maintaining such an army station; and that the tax laws
of the State could not be applied to property so located

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

without bringing them, in that regard, into conflict with
Article I, § 8, cl. 17 of the Constitution of the United
States, which prescribes that the Congress shall have
power"To exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding ten miles square) as
may, by cession of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the seat of the government of the
United States, and to exercise like authority over all
places purchased by the consent of the legislature of the
State in which the same shall be, for the erection of
forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful
buildings; . .
The.property attempted to be taxed consisted of a large
quantity of woolen blankets which the defendant, a New
York concern, purchased from the United States at an
advertised sale a few days before the day fixed by the
state law for listing personal property for taxation, and
which in much the greater part was on that day in the
army storehouses within Camp Pike awaiting shipment
therefrom.
The Supreme Court of the State, although recognizing
that the status of Camp Pike was as just stated and that
the property on which the tax was laid was in much the
,greater part located therein, rejected the contention that
the tax laws of the State could not be applied to property
so located consistently with the constitutional provision
cited.
It is not unusqal for the United States to own within a
State lands which are set apart and used for public purposes. Such ownership and use without more do not
withdraw the lands from the jurisdiction of the State. On
the contrary, the lands remain part of her territory and
within the operation of her laws, save that the latter
cannot affect the title of the United States or embarrass
-it in using the lands or interfere with its right of disposal.

SURPLUS TRADING CO. v. COOK.
647

651

Opinion of the Court.

A typical illustration is found in the usual Indian reservation set apart within a State as a place where the
United States may care for its Indian wards and lead
them into habits and ways of civilized life. Such reservations are part of the State within which they lie and her
laws, civil and criminal, have the same force therein as
elsewhere within her limits, save that they can have only
restricted application to the Indian wards. Private property within such a reservation, if not belonging to such
Indians, is subject to taxation under the laws of the State.
Another illustration is found in two classes of military
reservations within a State-one where the reservation,
although established before the State is admitted into the
Union, is not excepted from her jurisdiction at the time of
her admission; and the other where the reservation, al.
though established after the admission of the State, is established either upon lands set apart by the United States
from its public domain or upon lands purchased by it for
the purpose without the consent of the legislature of the
State. In either case, unless there be a later and affirmative cession of jurisdiction by the State, the reservation is
a part of her territory and within the field of operation of
her laws, save that they can have no operation which
would impai: the effective use of the reservation for the
purposes for which it is maintained. If-there be private
property within such a reservation which is not held or
used as an incident of military service it may be subjected
to taxation like other private property within the State.
As respects such a military reservation-that is, one
which is neither excepted from the jurisdiction of the
State at the time of her admission nor. established upon
lands purchased therefor with the consent of her legislature-the State undoubtedly may cede her jurisdiction
to the United States and may make the cession either
absolute or qualified as to her may appear desirable, provided the qualification is consistent with the purposes

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. 9

for which the reservation is maintained and is accepted
by the United States. And where such a cession is made
and accepted it will be determinative of the jurisdiction
of both the United States and the State within the
teservation.
But Camp Pike is not in the same class with any of the
reservations of which we have spoken and should not be
confused with any of them. Nor should it be confused
with military or other reservations within a Territory of
the United States. It is not questioned, nor could it well
be, that Camp Pike comes within the words "forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings"
in the constitutional provision. The land therefor was
purchased by the United States with the consent of the
legislature of the State in 1017. The constitutional provision says that Congress shall have power to exercise
"exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever" over a
place so purchased for such a purpose. "Exclusive legislation" is consistent only with exclusive jurisdiction. It
can have no other meaning as to the seat of government,
and what it means as to that it also means as to forts,
magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, etc. That no divided
jurisdiction respecting the seat of government is intended
is not only shown by the terms employed but is a matter
of public history.. Why as to forts, magazines, arsenals,
dock-yards, etc., is the power given made ,to depend on
purchase with the consent of the legislature of the. State
if the jurisdiction of the United States is not to be exclusive and that of the State excluded?'
The question is not an open one. It long has been
settled that where lands for such a purpose are purchased
by the United States with the consent of the state legislature the jurisdiction theretofore residing in the State
passes, in virtue of the constitutional provision, to the
United States, thereby making the jurisdiction of the
latter the sole jurisdiction.

SURPLUS TRADING CO. v. COOK.
647

Opinion of the Court.

The first reported decision on the question is Commonwealth v. Clary, 8 Mass. 72, The question there wawhether the law of Massachusetts restricting the sale of
intoxicating liquors to persons procuring and paying for
licenses could be applied to an arsenal of the United
States in Springfield, the land for which had been purchased with the consent of the Commonwealth. The
court held that the license law could not be so applied
and in that connection said, p. 77:
"An objection occurred to the minds of some members
of the court, that if the laws of the commonwealth have
no force within this territory, the inhabitants thereof cannot exercise any civil or political privileges, under the
laws of Massachusetts, within the town of Springfield.
We are agreed that such consequence necessarily follows;
and we think that no hardship is thereby imposed on
those inhabitants ;-because they are not interested in
any elections made within the state, not held to pay any
taxes imposed by its authority, nor bound by any of its
laws. And it might be very inconvenient to the United
States, to have their labourers, artificers, officers and other
persons employed in their service, subjected to the services required by the commonwealth of the inhabitants of
the several towns."
In Mitchell v. Tibbetts, 17 Pick. 298, the question was
whether a law of Massachusetts relating to vessels bringing stone within that Commonwealth could be applied to
a vessel landing stone at the Charlestown Navy Yard, the
land for which had been purchased by the United States
with thq consent of the Commonwealth. The court ruled
that the law could not be so applied because the Commonwealth no longer had any jurisdiction over the navy
yard.
In United Statcs v. Cornell, Fed. Case No. 14,867, Mr.
Justice Story, at circuit, held that a state consenting to
the purchase by the United States of land for a fort was

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.

without jurisdiction of a public offense subsequently committed therein, and he stated his reasons as follows:
"The constitution of the United States declares that
congress shall have power to exercise 'exclusive legislation' in all 'cases whatsoever' over all places purchased
by the consent of the legislature of the state in which the
same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards and other needful buildings. When
t herefore a purchase of land for any of these purposes
is made by the national government, and the state legislature has given its consent to the purchase, the land so
purchased by the very terms of the constitution ipso facto
falls within the exclusive legislation of congress, and the
state jurisdiction is completely ousted. This is the necessary result, for exclusive jurisdiction is the attendant
upon exclusive legislation; and the r"nsent of the state
legislature is by the very terms of the constitution, by
which all the states are bound, and to which all are
parties, a virtual surrender and cession of its sovereignty
over the place. Nor is there anything novel in this construction. It is under the like terms in the same clause
of the constitution that exclusive jurisdiction is now
exercised by congress in the District of Columbia; for if
exclusive jurisdiction and exclusive legislation do not import the same thing, the states could not cede or the
United States accept for the purposes enumerated in this
clause, any exclusive jurisdiction."
Of like import is the opinion of Mr. Justice Woodbury
given at circuit in United States v. Ames, Fed. Cas. No.
14,441.
In Sinks v. Reese, 19 Ohio'St. 306, which related to
lands purchased with the consent of the legislature of
Ohio for a national home for disabled volunteer soldiers,
a question arose respecting the effect of a proviso in the
act of consent declaring that nothing in the act should
be construed to prevent residents of the home from exer-

SURPLUS TRADING CO. v. COOK.
547

655

Opinion of the Court.

cising the right of suffrage within the township in which
the home was located. The Supreme Court of the State
held that through the purchase of the site for the home
with the consent of the state legislature the United States
acquired exclusive jurisdiction 'over the site and that the
residents of the home, being within that exclusive jurisdiction, were not residents of the State and therefore not
entitled to vote therein.
In Foley v. Shriver, 81 Va. 568, it was held of lands
within the State of Virginia purchased with her consent
for another national home for disabled volunteer soldiers,
that in virtue of the constitutional provision the purchase
invested the United States with complete jurisdiction of
the lands to the exclusion of the State, so that they were
"no longer a part of the State of Virginia." And there
was a like ruling in Bank of Phoebus v. Byrum, 110
Va. 708.
In State v. Mack, 23 Nev.359, which related to a purchase by the United States with the state's consent of
land for a post office and federal court building, it was
held, notwithstanding a, provision in the act of consent
purporting to "except the administration of the criminal
laws of the State," that the purchase operated under the
constitutional provision to pass full jurisdiction over the
land to the United States and to divest the State of all
jurisdiction thereover, criminal as well as civil.
Like views of the operation of the constitutional provision are stated by Chancellor Kent in his Commentaries,
Vol. 1, pp. *429-431; and by Judge Story in hiswork on
the Constitution, 5th Ed., Vol. 2, §§ 1224-1227.
In Fort Leavenworth R. R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525,
this Court said, p. 532:
"When the title is acquired by purchase by consent of
the Legislatures of the States, the federal jurisdiction is
exclusive of all State authority. This follows from the
declaration of the Constitution that Congress shall have

6,56

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

'like authority' over such places as it has over the district
which is the seat of government; that is, the power of
' exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever.' Broader or
clearer language could not be used to exclude all other
authority than that of Congress."
And after reviewing some of the earlier cases here cited
the Court further said, p. 537:
"These authorities are sufficient to support the proposition which follows naturally from the language of the
Constitution, that no other legislative power than that of
Congress can be exercised over lands within a State purchased by the United States with her consent for one of
the purposes designated; and that such consent under the
Constitution operates to exclude all other legislative
authority."
And the view thus expressed was given approving
recognition in our recent decision in United States v.
Unzeuta, ante, p. 138, where it is said that, where the
United States purchases lands by the consent of the legislature of the State within which they are situated for the
purposes named in the constitutional provision, "the federal jurisdiction is exclusive of all state authority."
Apparently some of the cases to which we have referred
were not brought to the attention of the Supreme Court
of Arkansas. In its opinion it appears to have been
guided largely by cases dealing with reservations in Territories and with reservations in States of lands which
were not purchased by the United States with the consent of the .States. Such cases are not in point, for they
do not turn on the constitutional provision which is of
controlling influence in cases like this. Another matter
to which that court attached some importance is that the
act by which the legislature consented to the purchase of
the site for Camp Pike declares that the State "releases
and relinquishes her right to tax" the lands and improvements during the ownership of the United States. Ark.

SURPLUS TRkADING CO. v. COOK.
Opinion of the Court.

647

Laws 1903, Act 180. These words of release it is argued
disclose a purpose to reserve the power to tax, save as to
the lands and improvements. But to this we do not assent. The words are ill-adapted to expressing such a purpose--so much so that, had it existed, there can be little
doubt that it would have been stated differently. Not
only so, but to construe the release as suggested would
lead to a serious question respecting the validity of the
release and would bring it into conflict with the preceding
section, which directly states that the State "hereby consents to the purchase " of the site, and " the jurisdiction
of this State within and over" the site " is hereby ceded"
to the United States. The release is not in form or substance a proviso but is an affirmative provision inserted
as an independent section and we think it means what it
says and no more. that the legislature understood how
to use a saving clause or proviso is evident from the following which appears at the end of the -first section:
" Provided, that this grant of jurisdiction shall not prevent execution of any process of this State, civil or criminal, upon any person who may be on said premises." Such
a proviso is common to nearly all acts giving consent to
purchase, and is regarded, says Chancellor Kent, as
amounting, when accepted, to " an agreement of the new
sovereign to permit the free exercise of such process, as
being quoad hoe his own process." Kent's Commentaries,
Vol. 1, p. *430.
For the reasons which have been stated we are of
opinion that the Supreme Court of the State erred in
holding that her tax laws could be applied to personal
property within Camp Pike consistently with § 8, cl. 17,
of Article I of the Constitution, and therefore that the
judgment of that court must be reversed.
But to avoid any misapprehension it is well to state
that our ruling is limited to the blankets which were
within Camp Pike on May 1, 1922, the (lay fixed for
9S.,::4 -30-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

listing personal property for assessment. We are led to
make this statement because the record suggests, if it does
not show, that on that day 21,235 of the blankets purchased by the plaintiff were held by it in a private warehouse in Little Rock, the county seat of Pulaski County,
and 64,371 was the number remaining in the government
storehouses at Camp Pike. Whether the assessment
which was on the whole can be proportionally sustained
as to the part in Little Rock so that the plaintiff will be
charged with only such portion of the tax as pertains to
that part of the blankets is a question of state law on
which we intimate no opinion.
The judgment will be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

ANN ARBOR RAILROAD COMPANY
UNITED STATES ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 7.

Argued February 25, 1929. Reargued October 21, 22, 1929.Decided June 2, 1930.

1. The Joint Resolution of January 20, 1925, known as the HochSmith Resolution, declares it to be the true policy in rate-making
that the conditions which at any given time prevail in the several
industries should be considered, in so far as it is legally possible
to do so; directs the Interstate Commerce Commission to proceed along stated lines for the purpose of securing prompt observance of existing laws requiring that a rates be just and reasonable and prohibiting all undue preferences and unjust discriminations, whether relating to shippers, commodities, classes of traffic,
or localities; declares that, in the adjustment of rates, the factors
to be considered shall include (a) the general and comparative
levels in market value of the various classes and kinds of commodities as indicated over a reasonable period of years, (b) a natural

