BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
528

Syllabus.

cannot be made or the forfeiture proceeded with, prosecution for any offense committed must be had under the
National Prohibition Act rather than other statutory
provisions.
Reversed.
BROAD RIVER POWER COMPANY ET AL. V. SOUTH
CAROLINA EX REL. DANIEL, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 528. Argued May 2, 1930.--Decided May 19, 1930.
1. Upon review of a decision of a state court denying the existence
under the local law of a right alleged to exist under that law and
for which protection was claimed under the Federal Constitution,
the province of this Court is to inquire whether the decision rests
upon a fair or substantial basis; and if there was no evasion of the
constitutional issue, and the non-federal ground has fair support,
this Court will not inquire whether the rule applied by the state
court is right or wrong, or substitute its own view of what should
be deemed the better rule for that of the state court. P. 540.
2. Two South Carolina corporations, one of them with a franchise
to establish and operate an electric street railway and power system
upon condition that the railway be in operation within five years,
and the other with a franchise to sell and distribute electricity for
light and power and for that purpose to erect poles and conductors,
were consolidated under a special act of the legislature, in a new
corporation, whose franchises and privileges were granted for its
corporate life, extending beyond the lives of the other companies.
Under the consolidation act the franchises of the old companies
were consolidated and became vested in the new one. The new
company established a street railway and an electric power and
lighting plant, using, so far as practicable, the same poles, wires
and rights of way for both systems, and for forty years operated
the properties as one business. In a suit brought by the State, the
South Carolina Supreme Court decided that, by virtue of the consolidation, the privilege of operating the street railway was in-

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U.S.

separable from that of operating the electric power and light system; that together they constituted a unified franchise, which
could not be abandoned in part and retained in part without the
consent of the State, and that, so long as the company retained
and operated its electric power and light system, it could not be
permitted to abandon its street railway system.
Held, that it can not be said that this interpretation of the
state statutes so departs from established principles as to be without substantial basis. P. 541.
3. Franchises are to be strictly construed, and that construction
adopted which works least harm to the public. P. 543.
4. A corporation operating an electric railway and an electric power
and light plant under an inseparable franchise from a State, may
constitutionally be forbidden by the State to abandon the railway
while continuing the other business. Id.
5. The order compelling the operation of the railway in this case
does not involve a dctermination whether or not the rate is confiscatory, nor does it foreclose a consideration of that question upon
appropriate proceedings. P. 544.
6. A legislative act (So. Car. Acts of 1925, p. 842) whose dominant
purpose was to effect a merger or consolidation of named corporations, and which authorizes the transfer of all or any part of
their franchises, providing, however, that the company acquiring
any franchise 'shall take it subject to the restrictions, requirements
and conditions therein contained, reasonably may be deemed to
preclude the breaking up of a unified franchise in such manner as
to do away with obligations imposed by it, no purpose to permit
this being disclosed in the body of the Act. Pp. 544-547.
7. The fact that Acts for the merger of corporations and transfers
of franchises are commonly prepared by tho~e interested in the
benefits to be derived from them, and that the public interest
requires that they' should be in such unequivocal form that the
legislative mind may be impressed with their character and import
so that privileges may be intelligently granted or purposely withheld, has firmly established the rule that they must be strictly
construed, and that any ambiguity or doubts as to their meaning
and purpose must be resolved in favor of the public interest.
P. 548.
8. Writ of certiorari to review a judgment of a state court, dismissed
because the judgment was supported by a substantial, non-federal
ground. Id.
Writ of certiorari to 157 S.C.1, dismissed.

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
537

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 551, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of South Carolina, in the nature of
mandamus, to compel the operation of an electric street
railway. [Rehearing granted, October 13, 1930.]
Mr. William Marshall Bullitt, with whom Messrs. C.
Edward Paxson, George M. Le Pine, and W. C, McLain
were on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Cordie Page, Assistant Attorney General of
South Carolina, and Irvine F. Belser, with whom Messrs.
John M. Daniel, Attorney General, C. T. Graydon, W. S.
Nelson, E. W. Mullins, and H. N. Edmunds were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is here on certiorari, 280 U. S. 551, to review
a judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina,
adjudging the petitioners, the Broad River Power Company and its subsidiary, the Columbia Railway Gas &
Electric Company, to be jointly responsible for the operation of an electric street railway system in Columbia,
South Carolina, and directing them to resume its operation, which they had abandoned. The proceeding, in
the nature of mandamus, was brought in the state
Supreme Court to compel the operation of the system
by petitioners. By their answer they set up that the
railway was being operated by the Railway Company at
a loss under a franchise separate and distinct from the
franchise to make and distribute electric light and power
of the Broad River Power Company, whose business is
concededly profitable; that the continued operation of the
railway under compulsion of the court would deprive
respondents of their property without due process of law
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal
Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The Supreme Court, upon consideration of the evidence
taken before a referee, held (a) that although the books
of the street railway showed large financial losses, it could
be operated at a profit if properly managed; (b) that the
charter and certain city ordinances under which the street
railway system was constructed and operated, and certain
extension-line and right-of-way agreements, are effective
as contracts imposing on petitioners a duty to operate
the system; and, (c) that the privilege of operating the
street railway is inseparable from that of operating the
electric power and light system, and that together they
constitute a unified franchise, which cannot be abandoned
in part and retained in part without the consent of the
state; that so long as respondents retain and operate their
electric power system they cannot be permitted to abandon their street railway system. Each of these conclusions is sharply challenged by respondents, but, in the
view we take, only the third need be considered here.
Whether the state court has denied to rights asserted
under local law the protection which the Constitution
guarantees is a question upon which the petitioners are
entitled to invoke the judgment of this Court. Even
though the constitutional protection invoked be denied
on non-federal grounds, it is the province of this Court
to inquire whether the decision of the state court rests
upon a fair or substantial basis. If unsubstantial, constitutional obligations may not be thus evaded. Fox
River Paper Co. v. Railroad Commission of Wisconsin,
274 U. S. 651, 655; Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 22;
EnterpriseIrrigationDistrict v. Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157,
164. But if there is no evasion of the constitutional issue,
Cole, 256 U. S. 222, 225; Vandalia Railroad v.
Nickel .v.
City of South Bend, 207 U. S. 359, 367; and the nonfederal ground of decision has fair support, Fox River
PaperCo. v. RailroadCommission, supra,657; Enterprise
IrrigationDistrict v. Canal Co., supra; Leathe v. Thomas,

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
537

Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S. 93; Vandalia Railroad Co. v. City of South
Bend, supra;Sauer v. New York, 206 U. S. 536, this Court
will not inquire whether the rule applied by the state
cdurt is right or wrong, or substitute its own view of
what should be deemed the better rule, for that of the
state court.
The predecessor in interest of the Columbia Electric
Gas & Railway Company, the petitioner, was incorporated
in 1890 by special act of' the legislature, S. C. Acts of
1890, p. 969, under the name of Columbia Electric Street
& Suburban Railway & Electric Power Company, later
changed to The Columbia Electric Street Railway Light
& Power Company, called the Consolidated Company
and, still later, in 1911, changed to its present name. Its
corporate life was fixed at thirty years and it was given
power, upon the consent of the city council, to construct
or acquire railway tracks through any streets of the City
of Columbia, to extend them into the country a distance
of five miles from the state capital, and to operate cars
with electric power over its tracks for the transportation
of passengers and freight and to contract for and provide
electric power for any other purpose. The act was continued in force provided the "Company begins to oper.ate its railways in said city within five years."
An act of December 16, 1891, S. C. Acts of 1891, p.
1453, authorized the consolidation of this company with
the Congaree Gas & Electric Company. The latter had
been incorporated under the Act of December 24, 1887,
S. C. Acts of 1887, p. 1103, for a period of thirty years,
with the power, not now involved, to manufacture and
distribute gas, and power to sell and distribute light,
power and heat "made from electricity," and for that
purpose, subject to municipal ordinances, to erect poles
and conductors. The Consolidation Act recited that
these two companies had agreed to consolidate their franchises and privileges and authorized them to do so by

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

transfer of their property, franchises, and privileges by
deed of indenture to the new consolidated company.
This company was incorporated for fifty years, with the
usual corporate powers. The act provided that it should
be vested with the franchises and subject to the liabilities
of the consolidated companies. It was also authorized to
acquire the property and franchise of the Columbia Street
Railway Company, incorporated for thirty years by Act
of February 9, 1882, with a franchise to operate horse
cars over tracks in the city streets.
The consolidation was effected as authorized. The
Consolidated Company acquired the line of street railway of the horse car company, established electric power
plants and, under authority of City Ordinance, §§ 561,
562, of 1892, laid additional tracks and electrified the
system by erecting poles and wires in the streets, also, so
far as practicable, using them andits rights of way in its
electric light and power business. From the organization
of the Consolidated Company until 1925, both the street
railway and power business of the Consolidated Company were expanded as a single business, its capital stock
was increased from time to time, and the system of
accounts was such that it did not disclose whether its
power system was constructed more from the proceeds of
its street railway or its power business.
Certain factsin this recital of corporate history are of
persuasive if not controlling. significance in determining
the status of the franchise of the Consolidated Company.
The Consolidated Company was a new corporation. Its
franchises and privileges were granted for its corporate
life, extending beyond the duration of the franchises of
the two companies consolidated, all of which would have
expired before 1921. It had'acquired the franchises of
the two consolidated companies, one in terms a franchise
to olerate a railway and a power system, the railway
system being for practical purposes dependent upon the

.BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
53

7

Opinion of the Court.

power system for its operation, and the privilege of operating both being conditional upon the establishment of
the railway system within five years. The Consolidation
Act plainly looked to a consolidation of the franchises by
the two companies. None of the special legislative acts
defining the privileges conferred upon these several corporations contains any words affirmatively providing that
any part of the privileges granted should be deemed separable, or that they might be exercised independently of
any other.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina, in referring to
this corporate history and the effect of the Consolidation
Act said: "When the new company, in compliance
with this Act, effected the consolidation and in pursuance
of the provisions of the Act built, constructed and operated its electric railway and power properties as parts of
one business for nearly forty years, -these rights, powers
and privileges became inseparably bound together and
cannot be separated. As contended by the petitioners
[respondents here], such diversity as there was in the
conditions of the former franchises became obliterated
and extinguished by the major purpose of the new act,
namely, the consolidation of all the powers in one company for the greater benefit of the public."
In the light of the familiar rule that franchises are to be
strictly construed, and that construction adopted which
works the least harm to the public, see Blair v. Chicago,
201 U. S. 400, 471; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S'.
659, 666; Slidell v. Grandjean, 111 U. S. 412, we cannot
say that this interpretation of statutes of the State of
South Carolina, by its highest court, so departs from
established principles as to be without substantial basis,
or presents any ground for the protection, under the Constitution, of rights or immunities which the state court
has found to be non-existent. It follows that it was
within the constitutional power of the State to refuse to

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

permit any partial abandonment of the consolidated franchise. United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission of
Kentucky, 278 U. S. 300, 308; Fort Smith Light & Traction Co. v. Bourland, 267 U. S. 330; Puget Sound Traction
Co. v. Reynolds, 244 U. S. 574; Ches. & Ohio Ry. v. Public
Service Comm., 242 U. S. 603; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262, 277. See Woodhaven Gas Light Co.
v. Public Service Comm. of N. Y., 269 U. S. 244; N. Y. &
Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, 245 U. S. 345; Atlantic Coast
Line v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206
U. S. 1, 25.
Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Comm., 251 U. S. 396,
upon which petitioners rely, is not apposite. It was
there held that where a railroad serving the public is
owned and operated by a corporation which also conducted a private business, it is the business of the Railroad and not the entire business of the Company which
determines whether the Railroad franchise may be abandoned as unprofitable. The private business was not devoted to a public use or a part of the public franchise.
Nor, as petitioners contend, are we here concerned with
the rule that a public service company may not be compelled to serve, even in a branch of its business, at a rate
which is confiscatory. See Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v.
North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585. The order compelling petitioners to serve does not involve a determination whether
or not the rate is confiscatory, nor does it foreclose a consideration of that question upon appropriate proceedings.
Woodhaven Gas Light Co. v. Public Service Comm'n of
N. Y., supra, 249.
But petitioners contend that, even if the franchise of
the Consolidated Company be deemed a unified one,
the privilege of operating the street railway systen was
separated from the franchise to operate the power system by the corporate reorganization under the so-called
Merger Act of March 19, 1925, S. C. Acts of 1925, p. 842.

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
537

Opinion of the Court.

The passage of this Act was procured by those interested
in promoting the interests of the Consolidated Company
and its subsidiaries, apparently for the purpose of facilitating the financing of the power business apart from
the street railway business. It is entitled "An Act to
authorize" the Consolidated and six other named companies, or any of them, "to merge, consolidate or sell,
transfer and convey all or any part of their respective
properties, assets, franchises, and charter or other rights
to one or more of them or to the Broad River Power
Company . . .and to authorize the Broad River Power
Compai.y . . . or any one or more of them to merge,
consolidate or purchase the same, and to vest in the said
Broad River Power Company or any other of said companies the property, assets, franchises and charter or
other rights so sold, transferred, conveyed, merged, consolidated or purchased . . ." Section 1, entitled "Merger
of certain corporations authorized," permits the named
companies or any of them "to merge or consolidate with
or to sell, transfer and convey to any .one or more of them
or -to the Broad River Power Company all or any part
of their respective properties, assets, franchises .. .and
each and every of said companies and the Broad River
Power Company are hereby authorized to merge and consolidate with or to purchase and to receive and hold all
or any part of the properties, assets, franchises . . . so
sold, transferred and conveyed. . . ." Section 2 declares "that in furtherance of the purpose of § 1 . . .
all franchises heretofore granted by the state to any of
the said companies may be transferred and assigned in
pursuance of the provisions of § 1 of this Act," and that
the company to which the transfer is made" shall hold
the same with all the rights, powers and privileges
granted to the original holder thereof, subject only to
the restrictions, requirements and conditions in said franchises contained."
98234°-3--- -35

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The Broad River Power Company had been organized
in July, 1924, for the purpose of acquiring the entire outstanding capital stock of the Consolidated Company.
Proceeding under the Merger Act, all the property and
franchises of the six subsidiaries, excepting only the street
railway property and so much of its franchises as authorized it to operate and maintain its street railway system,
were vested in the Broad River Company. That company thus acquired the entire power business, leaving only
the street 'car business and property in the Consolidated
Company. The deed, however, expressly conveyed to
the Broad River Power Company all its poles, including
those used for the street railway, which carried both
the trolley wires for the operation of the street railway
and those for the transmission of other electric power.
The Broad River Power Company then issued its own
stock to the extent of approximately three and a half
million dollars in exchange for the common stock of the
Consolidated Company and one of its subsidiaries, and
for certain cash subscriptions. After the acquisition of
the common stock of the Consolidated Company by the
Broad River Company, the capital stock of the former
was reduced to a relatively nominal amount, all of which
was held by the Broad River Company except 190 shares
.of preferred stock which remained outstanding. The
record indicates that the petitioners have deposited a
fund in a special bank account for the retirement of this
stock. Since this reorganization the same persons have
been executive officers of the Broad River Company and
the Consolidated Company, and for all practical purposes
the railway- business of the Consolidated Company has
been carried on as a branch or department of the Broad
River Power Company.
Upon these and more detailed findings of fact, both the
referee and the state court held that the reorganization
resulted in a merger by which all the properties and

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
537

Opinion of the Court.

franchises of the several companies concerned were
brought under the complete 'domination and control of
the Broad River Power Company, which, carried on the
street railway branch of its business through the merely
nominal agency of the Consolidated Company. For that
reason the Supreme Court reached the conclusion that
there had been no effective splitting up of the franchise
or the public obligations of the Consolidated Company,
and that they had devolved upon the Broad River Power
Company, which was liable to carry out the obligation of
the Columbia Gas & Electric Company to furnish an electric street railway service.
But we need not consider this aspect of the case, for we
think that there was substantial basis for the further conclusion of the state court that the Merger Act cannot be
taken to authorize the breaking up of the unified franchise of the Consolidated Company in such manner as to
relieve it or any successor company from its duties and
obligations as they existed before the merger. Nowhere
in this legislation is there any affirmative disclosure of a
purpose to relieve any of the corporations of existing
duties and obligations or to enlarge their privileges. As
appears from the title of the act and also that of § 1, the
dominant purpose was to effect a merger or consolidation.
The authority given by § 1 to transfer "all or any part"
of the franchises affords but slender basis for the argument that there was any purpose to effect such a separation. The use of this phrase seems only subsidiary to the
dominant purpose to authorize a merger or consolidation.
It is not repeated or in terms referred to in § 2, which
deals with franchises, and it is declared to be in furtherance of the.purpose of § 1. In any case, the limitation in
this section that the company 'acquiring any franchise
shall take it subject to existing restrictions, requirements
and conditions may, we think, reasonably be deemed to
preclude the possibility of relieving from franchise duties

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

and obligations when no such purpose is disclosed in the
body of the legislative act.
The very fact that legislative acts of this character are
commonly prepared by those interested in the benefits
to be derived from them, and that the public interest
requires that they should be in such unequivocal form
that the legislative mind may be impressed with their
character and import so that privileges may be intelligently granted or purposely withheld, has firmly established the rule that they must be strictly construed, and
that any ambiguity or doubts as to their meaning and
purpose must be resolved in favor of the public interest.
See Blair v. Chicago, supra, 471; Fertilizing Company v.
Hyde Park, supra, 666. "The rule is a wise one; it serves
to defeat any purposes concealed by the skillful use of
terms to accomplish something not apparent on the face
of the Act and thus sanctions only open dealing with
legislative bodies." Slidell v. Grandjean, supra, 438.
We conclude that the judgment below is supported by
a state ground which we may rightly accept as substantial.
Dismissed.

TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY

v. BROTHERHOOD
STEAMSHIP CLERKS ET AL.
ET

AL.

OF RAILWAY

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT (f

&

APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 469.

Argued May 1, 2, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

1. This Court accepts findings of fact in which the two lower federal courts concur, unless clear error is shown. P. 558.
2. Evidence in this case supports the conclusion of the courts below
that the defendant Railroad Company and its officers were ac-

