. WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.

179

Syllabus.

WISCONSIN BT AL. v. ILLINOIS ET AL.

MICHIGAN v. ILLINOIS

ET AL.

NEW YORK v. ILLINOIS

ET AL.

Nos. 7, 11, and 12, Original. Argued March 12, 13, 1930.-Decided
April 14, 1930.
1. Passing upon the Master's report in this case and the exceptions
thereto, the Court determines the amounts by which the unlawful
diversion of water from Lake Michigan (278 U. S. 367) should be
diminished from time to time and- the times to be fixed for each
step; the plans proposed for disposal of the Chicago sewage are
considered as material only as bearing on what those determinations
should be; the defendants must find the way to comply with the
determinations. P. 197.
2. The performance to be exaeted of the defendant State is to be
gauged by what is possible if it devotes all its powers to the exigency. The State can base no defences upon difficulties which it
has itself created, nor upon anything in its own constitution that
may stand in the way of prompt action. Id.
3. In determining the extent to which"the diversion of water should
be reduced and the times at, which the reductions should take
place, a recent rise in the level of Lake Michigan cannot be taken
into account, since, apart from speculation as to the duration
of the rise, delays are allowable* only 'for the purpose of limiting
within fair possibility, the requirements of immediate justice pressed.
by the complaining States. Id.
4. These 'requirements as between the parties are the constitutional
rights of those States, subject to whatever modification they may
hereafter be subjected to by Congress acting within its authority.

Id.
5. In present conditions there is no invasion of the authority of Congress by the former decision in these cases; and the right of the
plaintiffs to a decree is not affected by the possibility that Congress
may take some action in the matter. Id.
6. The Court approves the Master's recommendations as to the
amounts in which the diversion shall be successively reduced and
the times within which the reductions shall be made, with a provision requiring the defendant Sanitary District to file with the
Clerk of this Court, at stated periods, reports of the progress of

180

OCI!OBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

281 U. S.

the work involved, at the coming in of which either party may
make application to the Court for such action as may be
suitable. P. 198.
7. All action of the parties and the Court in this case will be subject
to any order that Congress may make in pursuance of its constitutional powers and any modification that necessity may show should
be made by this Court. Id.
8. The Court rejects the plaintiffs' demands that all diversion through
the Drainage Canal cease, that the canal be closed at its connection with the Des Plaines River, with an incidental return of the
flow of the Chicago River to'its original course into the Lake, and
*lso (a -demand not contemplated by their bills) that all water
pumped in the Sanitary District for domestic purposes be returned
to the Lake after being purified in sewage works, and adopts as
more reasonable the Maqter's report that, as the best uay of preventing the pollution of navigable waters, an outflow from the
canal into the Des Plaines should be permitted and that the interests of navigation in the Chicago River, as a part of the Port of
Chicago, will require the diversion of an annual average not exceeding 1500 c. f. s., in addition to domestic pumpage after sewage
treatment. P. 199.
9. The claims of the complaining States should not be pressed to a
logical extreme without regard to relative suffering and to the time
during which the plaintiffs have let the defendants go on without
complaint. P. 200.
10. If. the amount of water withdrawn for domestic purposes should
be excessive, it will be open :to complaint. Id.
11. Whether the -right for domestic use extends to great industrial
plants (not argued) may be open for consideration at some future
time. Id
12. The defendants, having made the-suits necessary by persisting in
unjustifiable- acts, must piy the costs of the litigation. Id.
Decree directed, subject to future modification.

SUITS brought originally in this Court by the States of
Wisconsin, Minnesota, Ohib, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and
New York, against the State of Illinois and the Chicago
Sanitary District, to enjoin further taking' of water from
Lake Michigan for the purpose of carrying off the sewage
of Chicago and vicinity through a drainage canal. Pursuant to the opinion reported'in 278 U. S. 367, the case

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Argument for Complainants.

was referred for the second time to Charles E. Hughes,
Esquire, as Special Master. The Master was directed to
take testimony on the practical measures needed to dispose of the sewage without the unlawful diversions of
water, and the time required for their completion, and
to report his conclusions for the formulation of a decree.
The decision now reported was rendered after a hearing
upon exceptions to the Master's report under the second
reference.
Messrs. Raymond T. Jackson, Special Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin; Gilbert Bettman, Attorney
General of Ohio; Wilbur M. Brucker, Attorney General
of Michigan; and Newton D. Baker, Special Assistant
Attorney General of Ohio; with whom Messrs. John W.
Reynolds, Attorney General, Herman L. Ekern, Special
Assistant Attorney General, and Herbert H. Naujoks, Assistant Attorney General, of Wisconsin; Henr# N. Benson,
Attorney General of Minnesota; and Cyrus E. Wood, Attorney General and Thoras E. Taylor, Deputy Attorney
General, of Pennsylvania, were on the brief, for the complainant States of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Michigan.
No diversion or flow at Lockport is necessary br legally
admissible for the purpose of maintaining navigation in
the Chicago River as part of the Port of Chicago, or for
any other purpose, upon the completion of the program
of practical measures.
The Master, in his original report, found that Illinois
had no power to divert water from the Great Lakes-St.
Lawrence Watershed as against the complainant States,
and that finding was confirmed by this Court. 278 U. S.
367. His later conclusion would overrule the previous
decision of this Court. It would not only authorize Illinois to withhold its entire natural contribution to the
Great Lakes System, but also to abstract from two to five

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Complainants..

281 U. S.

or six times the amount in addition (depending on
whether the domestic pumpage be included). This additional water, contributed by the lower riparian States,
would never have been within the boundaries of Illinois
except for her unlawful act. ' No equity to take it can be.
founded upon a claim that it is or will be useful to the
appropriator. It could not be said that the expense
which the defendant would save by the appropriation
would exceed the damage inflicted upon the complainants.
But a State can not justify the taking of waters of another
State upon the ground that it can derive a greater profit
from their use than could the rightful owner. Wyoming
v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419. The complainant States need
give no reason for keeping their own. Hudson County
Water Co. v. McCarter,209 U. S. 349.
This Court did not delegate to the Master the discretion or duty to apportion the waters between the complainant States and Illinois, on the basis of use which he
might think most beneficial, or on any other basis. His
exposition of the basis upon which his conclusion rests
demonstrates that it is without legal basis and not responsive to the mandate of re-reference issued by the Court.
The Court held that no diversion was admissible in the
interests of sanitation and that the defendahts must provide some method of disposing of the sewage other than
promoting or continuing the existing diversion. If any
diversion were to be justified by reason of or as incident
to the disposal of the sewage, the burden was on the defendants to establish both its necessity and extent as an
equitable defense pro tanto.
This Court expressly held that Congress had not
attempted to authorize any diveision for navigation purposes on the Illinois or* Mississippi Rivers and that no
diversion of water for such purposes could be allowed in
this case. The Master has specifically found that there
has been no subsequent action by the Congress. The

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Argument for Complainants.

question, therefore, here to be determined is solely
whether on the completion of this program, the diversion
of any quantity of water will be required in order to maintain such navigation as may use the Port of Chicago and
the Chicago River in connection with the Great LakesSt. Lawrence System. There is no navigation in any
practical sense coming into the Chicago River by way of
the Illinois Waterway or the Illinois-Michigan Canal.
Only a few canoes and small pleasure craft have passed
through the little lock of the Sanitary District.
With the cessation of all flow at Lockport, navigable
depths will be increased in the Chicago River and the
Drainage Canal because of the reversal of slope incident
to restoration of the natural flow into Lake Michigan.
The inquiry is then immediately reduced to the question
of whether any diversion of water is necessary after completion of this program in order to prevent a nuisance
which will obstruct navigation in the Chicago River Es,
part of the Port of Chicago.
With the completion of practical measures recommended by the Master (less control works) or of complainants' program, for the disposition of the sewage
without diversion and with no flow at Lockport, no interference with or obstruction in fact to navigation or navigable capacity will be created in the Chicago River as part
of the Port of Chicago.
Assuming, solely for the sake of argument, that the
Court, in adverting to the possibility of some negligible
quantity of diversion being necessary to maintain navigation in the Chicago River, referred not merely to the
preservation of adequate depths and widths, but to the
prevention of any nuisance conditions arising from the
disposal of the sewage which could create an interference
with, or obstruction to, navigation or navigable capacity,
complainants assume that the Court did not have in mind
any fanciful standard for the Chicago River, but intended

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Complainants.

281 U. S.

simply to secure practical conditions which have been
found adequate for navigation in line with the experience
in navigable harbors generally.
While defendants originally contended that the discharge of the entire volume of raw sewage into the Chicago River did not create any interference with navigation, ever since this Court held that diversion for sanitation is illegal and inadmissible, defendants have steadily
attempted to create an impression that, in order to maintain navigation at Chicago, it is necessary to eliminate all
possibility of contamination of the water in the River,
no matter how negligible, so that in effect it may be as
pure as it was when there was no City of Chicago. If
the contentions of the defendants were correct, there
would be no free and unobstructed navigation at any of
the substantial ports of the United States, and navigation, instead of growing, upon the lakes and elsewhere,
would have died out long ago, as the cities continued to
grow. On the contrary, it has rapidly increased. Cf.
New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296.
Analysis of the evidence demonstrates that no diversion
is necessary to maintain navigation in the Chicago River.
If it be assumed that the program of practical measures
recommended by the Master is not adequate to prevent
interference with navigation in the Chicago River as part
of the Port of Chicago, with no flow at Lockport, then
other available practical measures must be included in
the program; and with their inclusion, no claim of a
necessity for any diversion to maintain navigation in the
Chicago River can be supported.
If an unusual standard of purity and beauty in the interests of navigation is to be adopted for the Chicago
River, then there are available practical measures other
than diversion for accomplishing such a standard.
Practical measures are available to wholly eliminate the
effluent of the sewage treatment works and the discharge

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Argument for Complainants.

of any untreated sewage at times of storm from the Chicago River, if that is deemed necessary. In any event, no
permanent diversion in abridgement of complainants'
rights is admissible as a matter of law.
Diversion to remove a nuisance created by the sewage
of Chicago is not in aid of navigation.
Congress, by general and special legislation, has affirmatively determined that the discharge of local sewage and
street wash into any of the navigable waters of the United
States shall not constitute an obstruction to navigation or
navigable capacity as a matter of law. U. S. C., Title 33,
§§ 407, 421. This determination is conclusive. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 18 How. 421; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Olympian Dredging Co., 260 U. S. 205. It
seems that, in New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296,
this statute was not construed.
If the Court should find that there is any basis in fact
for any diversion, subsequent to the completion of the
program of practical measures, in the interests of navigation, complainants reassert their contentions (laid aside
without decision in the opinion of January 14, 1929) that
neither the State of Illinois nor the Federal Government
has the power to authorize the diversion of any water in
the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Watershed to the Mississippi Watershed without the consent of the complainant
States.
The City of Chicago does not divert the unconsumed
portion of its domestic pumpage; it would have no legal
right so to do against the objection of these complainants;
and if such a right be conceded for the sake of argument,
such a diversion could not be made the basis of diverting
an additional quantity of water in derogation of the rights
of the complainants.
Domestic pumpage does not cease to be water because
it has become in a greater or lesser degree contaminated
through its reasonable use for domestic purposes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Complainants.

281 U. S.

The State of Illinois under the circumstances of this
case has not the power to authorize Chicago to take its
domestic water supply from the Great Lakes Watershed
and divert the unconsumed portion to the Mississippi
Watershed. Holyoke Water Power Co. v. Connecticut
River Co., 22 Blatch. 131, 20 Fed. 71; Saunders v. Bluefield Imp. Co., 58 Fed. 133; Pine v. New York, 50 C. C. A.
145, 112 Fed. 98, reversed on other grounds, 185.U. S. 93;
Rutz v. St. Louis, 7 Fed. 438; Hoge v. Eaton, 135 Fed. 411.
The common law of waters obtains in the complainant
and defendant States. Every riparian owner is entitled
to the natural flow of the stream or watercourse without
substantial diminution in either quantity or quality, and
an upper riparian owner must return any waters diverted
from a watercourse before it leaves his land. Kimber7y
"& Clark Co.v. Hewitt, 79 Wis. 334; Priewe v. Wisconsin
Land & Imp. Co., 93 Wis. 534; Dwight v. Hayes, 150 IMI.
237; Minnesota Loan & T. Co. v. St. Anthony Falls
Waterpower Co., 82 Minn. 505; Pinney v. Luce, 44 Minn.
367; Clark v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 145 Pa. St. 438; Miller v. Miller, 9 Pa. 74; Strobel v. Kerr Salt Co., 164 N. Y.
303; Lorangerv. Flint, 185 Mich. 454; Stock v. Jefferson,
114 Mich. 357; Canton v. Shock, 66 Oh. St. 19; Stock v.
Hillsdale, 155 Mich. 375; Philadelphiav. Collins, 69 Pa.
St. 106; Haupt's Appeal, 125 Pa. St,.211; Lord v. Meadville Water Co., 135 Pa. 122; Crill v. Rome, 47 How. Pr.
Rep. 398; Sumner v. Gloversville, 71 N. Y. S.1088; Smith
v. Rochester, 92 N. Y. 463; Fulton Light, H. & P. Co. v.
State, 200 N. Y. 400; Minneapolis Mill Co. v. Water
Comm'n, 56 Minn. 485; Kimberly &. Clark Co. v. Hewitt,
79 Wis. 334; Green Bay & Co. v. Kaukauna Water Co.,
90 Wis. 370; Elgin v. Elgin Hydraulic Co., 85 Ill. App.
182, affirmed, 194 Ill. 476.
The Master committed no error in not allowing a longer
period of time for the construction and placing in operation of the practical measures recommended by him.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Argument for New York.

This Court has already decided, Wisconsin v. Illinois,
278 U. S. 367, that it has the jurisdiction to determine the
extent of diversion, if any, which is legal, and its right
so to do is clear.
The Master should have recommended that costs be
taxed against the defendants, including the fees of the
Master. Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359; South Dakota
v. North Carolina, 192 U. S. 286; New York v. New
Jersey, 256 U. S. 296; North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263
U. S. 583.
Mr. Hamilton Ward, Attorney General of New York,
submitted for the complainant State of New York.
The program outlined by the Master is not an adequate
program of practical measures for the disposition of the
sewage in the Sanitary District through other means than
lake diversion, as interpreted by the Master, and does not
comply 'with the order of this Court dated January 14,
1929.
The inclusion by the Master of controlling works as' a
part of his program of practical measures for the disposition of sewage was erroneous because it preserves
rather than prevents diversion and because it conditions
complainant's relief upon the discretion of the Secretary
of War.
Upon the completion of the sewage disposal program,
no diversion or flow at Lockport is necessary or legally
admissible to maintain navigation in the Chicago River
as part of the Port of Chicago.
Diversion is not necessar> in the interests of navigation on the Chicago River as a part of the Great Lakes
system.
SUpon completion of* the practical measures recommended by the Master, or of complainant's program,
there will be no nuisance in the Chicago River such as to
require the diversion of any lake water.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Defendants.

281 U. S.

In New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, the discharge 'of sewage into New York Harbor with only simple
preliminary treatment for the removal of gross material
was held not to be harmful to navigation.
Congress by general and special legislation has affirmatively determined that the discharge of local sewage and
street wash into any of the navigable waters of the United
States shall not constitute an obstruction of navigation or
navigable capacity as a matter of law, U. S. C., Title 33,
§§ 407, 421. This is conclusive; Monongahela Bridge
Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 177.
The time allowed by the Master for the constriction
and placing in operation of practical measures for sewage
disposal is sufficient.
The jurisdiction of this Court to fix the amount of
diversion in the interest of navigation has been decided.
v. Illinois, 278 U. S. 376.
Wisconsin
* The Master
was correct. in not allowing additional diversion in the alleged interest of navigation in the Illinois
River or Michigan Canal, and in finding it practicable to
determine permissible reductions in diversion during the
construction.
The decree proposed should have awarded costs to the
complainant including the fees of. the Master. North
Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 583. Messrs. John W. Davis, James M. Beck and Edmund
D. Adcock, with whom Messrs. Oscar E. Carlstrom,
Attorney General of Illinois, Walter E. Beebe, George F.
Barrett, James Hamilton Lewis, Louis J. Behan, William
P. Sidley and Cornelius Lynde were on the brief, for the*
defendants, the State of Illinois and the Sanitary District
of Chicago.*
Mr. Carlstrom appeared as representing the State of Illinois; Mr.
Beebe as -Attorney, and Messrs. Barrett and Adcock as Solicitors, of
the Sanitary District of Chicago. Messrs. Davis, Beck, Lewis, and

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Argument for Defendants.

The manner and conditions of the discharge and flow
of wastes in the navigable waters must be within the paramount power of Congress to regulate. Congress has provided for regulation by the Secretary of War on the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers. It would be improper for the Court to step over into this field of the
political department.
The bills do not seek to interfere with the discharge of
Chicago's sewage, wastes "and storm water to the Des
Plaines River.
Pursuant to these bills, much evidence was offered by
complainants at the 1926-27 hearings, and their witnesses
at those hearings never contemplated discharge of treated
or untreated sewage and storm waters into Lake Michigan.
This Court's opinion of January 14, 1929, does not contemplate preventing discharge of sewage effluent, waste,
storm water and rain water run-off to the Des Plaines
River, nor does it intend that diversion from the Lake
should cease. The Court understood that the only question involved was as to the amount of water that should
be "directly abstracted froni Lake Michigan."
The City of Chicago has the right to take water from
Lake Michigan for its domestic purposes and discharge
the drainage, sewage or effluent or wastes from sewage
purification works wherever in its judgment it may deem
most appropriate.
The Supreme Court, in original suits between States,
adopts the law of the complainants and defendants as
announced by Constitution, statute, or the opinions of
their courts. Wyoming v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46.
Behan appeared as counsel for the Sanitary District, as did also
Messrs. Sidley and Lynde, the last two representing the Association of
Commerce of Chicago.
Mr. Lewis was present at the argument, but yielded his time to
Mr. Adcock.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Defendants.

281 V. S.

The law of the complainant and defendant States is
that a city located upon a public navigable waterway has
the right to take water for its domestic purposes and appropriate it for all the uses to which the city may put it,
such as drinking, cooking, sanitary, manufacturing, fire department and such like, either as riparian owner or by
virtue of a grant by the State of such use of public waters,
and -nolower or other riparian owner can complain of such
use for domestic purposes. City of Canton v. Shock,
66 Ohio 19; Minneapolis Mill Co. v. Board of Water
Comm'r's, 56 Minn. 485; Lamprey v. Minnesota, 52 Minn.
181; Loranger'v. City of Flint, 185 Mich. 454; Appeal of
Frank Haupt, 125 Pa. St. 211; Philadelphiav. Collins,
68 Pa. 106; Philadelphiav. Comm'rs of Spring Garden,
7 Pa. 348; Filbert v. Dechert, 22 Pa. Sup. Ct. 362; Palmer
Water Co. v. Lehighton Water S. Co., 280 Pa. St. 492;
Boalsburg Water Co. v. State College Water Co., 240 Pa.
St. 198; Scranton Gas & W. Co. v. D. L. & W. R. Co., 240
Pa. St. 604; Crill v. The City of Rome, 47 How. Prac.,
Rep. 398; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387;
Strobel v. Kerr Salt Co., 164 N. Y. 303; United P. B. Co.
v. Iroquois P. & P. Co., 226 N. Y. 38; Haseltine v. Case,
46 Wis. 391; State v. Southerland, 166 Wis. 511; Metro-'
politan Investment Co. v. Milwaukee, 165 Wis. 216;
Thomas Furnace Co. v. Milwaukee, 156 Wis. 549; Wisconsin River Imp. Co. v. Lyons, 30 Wis. 61; Diana Shooting Club v. Husting, 156 Wis. 261; City of Elgin v. Elgin.
Hydraulic Co., 85 Ill. App. 182; Watuppa Reservoir Co.
v. Fall River, 147 Mass. 548; Fisk v. Hartford, 69 Conn.
375; City of Auburn v. Union Water Power Co., 90 Me.
576; Barre Water Co. v. Carnes, 65 Vt.' 626.
Diversions of water from one watershed to another have
been the common practice of complainant States. These
diversions have been acquiesced in and were undoubtedly
made for the purpose of taking advantage of the natural

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Argument for Defendants.

resources of the States making the diversions. gee
Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419, 466.
The Acts of Congress of 1822 and 1827, and the Acts
of Illinois, have brought Chicago within the watershed
of the Mississippi River, at least for the purpose of discharging the run-off of the Chicago River drainage area
and sewage. Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496.
Since about 1865, there has been discharged to the Des
Plaines River by way of tte Illinois and Michigan Canal,
or the Sanitary and Ship Canal, and from the Chicago
River, an amount of sewage and water equal to the
average rain water run-off of the Chicago River drainage
area and the sewage and wastes.
After the works recommended in the Master's report
for the treatment of sewage and wastes have been
installed, then there will have been disposed of and
eliminated all the sewage and wastes that may be so disposed of from a practicable standpoint. There will, be
left a residue of wastes in the effluents and in the storm
water after such works are put in operation. Therefore,
a reasonable amount of water will be required and may
be diverted from Lake Michigan to prevent nuisance to
or interference with navigation or nivigable waters in the
port and harbor of Chicago and in Lake Michigan, to
prevent pollution and impairment of the domestic water
supply, and bathing beaches, and to prevent other
nuisances.
The Court in exercising its jurisdiction in controversies
between States, will apply the principle of comity and
equality of right and opportunity and such equitable principles as will effect a just and equitable solution of the
problem under all the circumstances of the case.
Equality of right does not mean an equal division of
water. The States stand on an equal level or plane.
Each State has the right to take advantage of what nature

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Defendants.

281 U. S.

has by reason of its topography, natural resources and
other advantages provided it, even though in putting
such resources to the best available uses, the State may
encroach to some extent upon the solitary rights or the
equally full enjoyment of rights of some other State or
States. Each State has an equal right to use those great
natural assets which are available to many States in
common, and in appropriating part is not to be limited by
technical or narrow rules. Thus generally the public
welfare of the people of all the States will be advanced.
The discharge of the effluent and storm water, together
with a reasonable amount of water direct from Lake
Michigan, to the Des Plaines River, constitutes the natural
and logical method of disposing of these wastes and protecting navigation.
The ordinary rain water run-off of the Calumet and
Chicago River drainage areas must necessarily become
mixed with and a part of the sewage. In any event, this
ordinary rain water run-off has been discharged to the
Des Plaines River since 1865. In this there has been
such long acquiescence that there can be no possibility of
complaint. The amount of water required from Lake
Michigan to protect navigation is small, and the effect,
if any, upon the interests of complainant States, is negligible in comparison with the great financial burden that
would be placed upon the people of Chicago, and the
inconveniences from nuisance to the people living at
Chicago, as well as to the persons navigating the Lakes.
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 365; Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S.
419; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Kansas v.
Colorado, 185 U. S. 125.
The recent Colorado River compact is excellent authority in support of the doctrine of equal right and
opportunity between States, and becomes a persuasive

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Argument for Defendants.

precedent in applying interstate law principle., in controversies between the States.
The discharge into Lake Michigan of effluent from
treatment plants, storm water, untreated sewage therein
and drainage, as complainants propose, would forever
impair Chicago's only water supply.
The practicable measures required for the disposition of
the sewage and wastes of 'the Sanitary District, do not
embrace the additional wbrks which the complainants
now insist should have been included by the Master.
The diversion from Lake Michigan, when all the sewage
treatment works are in operation, should be fixed with
relation to the needs and interest of navigation not only
of the port and harbor of Chicago, but also of. the Des
Plaines and Illinois Rivers. Wisconsin v. Illinois, 278 U.
S. 367; New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296.
Considering the interests of navigation on the Illinois
River, as well as that at the port of Chicago, the evidence
is undisputed that approximately 5,000 c. f.\s. of diversion, including domestic pumpage, is required to maintain
unobjectionable conditions on the Illinois River.
Considering only the waters of the port of Chicago,
2,000 c. f. s., in addition to domestic pumpage and rain
water run-off is required for navigation.
The modern trend of thought, congressional legislation,
and official action of government and state officers is toward keeping and maintaining navigable and other waters
of the United States free from future pollution by sewage
and waste contamination of cities. Missouri v. Illinois,
200 U. S. 496; New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296.
The provision for controlling works to prevent reversals
of the Chicago River into the Lake, is part of the defendants' construction program to provide practical measures
in order that the amount of water diverted from the Lake,
when all the works are in operation, may be reduced to
98284"-30----18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Defendants.

281 U. S.

the lowest practicable amount consistent with the interests of navigation and prevention of nuisance to the
various interests involved.
Unless such controlling works are installed, it will be
impracticable, as the Master found, to reduce the diversion below 6,500 cubic second feet.
The drainage canal and the Chicago River are navigable waters of the United States, and it will be necessary
before such controlling works may be installed, that the
plans therefor be approved by the Secretary of War,
on the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers, under
§ 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of March 3, 1899.
Mortell v. Clark, 272 Ill. 201; People v. Economy Power &
L. Co., 241 Ill. 329; Ex parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 628; United
States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316; Perry v. Haines, 191 U. S.
17; DuPont v. Miller, 310 Ill. 140.
The Master has found that such controlling works will
not materially interfere with navigation, and has provided by his form of decree that the defendant Sanitary
District shall immediately submit plans to the War Department for such control works and that the control
works shall be constructed and installed by the Sanitary
District within two years after the date of the approval
of such plans 8~y the War Department. Consequently, an
exception on any prognosis that they may not be built is
without merit.
The amounts of the diversion at various times during
the period of construction, and the amount after all the
works are completed, should be fixed by the Secretary of
War, on the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers.
The opinion of January 14, 1929, intends that the Secretary of War, on the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers, shall continue the exercise of the functions heretofore exercised in fixing the amounts of the diversions in
the interests of navigation and its protection as the
exigencies of the situation may prompt.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Argument.,for Defendants.

The Court ought not to take any action in fixing the
amount of the diversion which will invade the sphere
of action of the political department. The Court's opinion of January 14, 1929, must not be so construed and, if
it may bear such construction, it should be modified.
Sanitary District v. United States, 266 U. S. 405; Pacific
TeL Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S. 118; Prentis v. Atlantic
'Coast Line, 211 U. S.:210..
It is impracticablefnow to fix amounts of the diversion.
The practical solution fs to provide by the. decree that the
dversion shall be, during the construction period, such
amounts as may be determined by permits issued according to law by the Secretary of War on the recommendation
of the Chief of Engineers; but that such permits shall be
subject to review by this Court on the evidence already
submitted and any further evidence that may then be
.
presented,
The time fixed by the Master's Jreport for the installation of all the different works is too short.
: The rise in lake levels since the introduction of the evi'dence on which the. Court's opinion of January 14, 1929,
was rendered, should have caused the Master to disregard
his conclusion that the Court intended to impose "an immediately heavy burden" in the installation of works.
Reasonable time for completion should have been allowed.' The shorter time which would impose such
immediately heavy burden is inequitable under the
circumstances.
Liberal allowance for unforeseeable delays in the construction of such vast and unusual works, should have
been made, which would have extended the construction
period beyond the date fixed by the Master.
It is inappropriate at this time to determine which one
of the parties shall pay the costs. Cf. North Dakota v.
Minnesota, 263 U. S. 583; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S.
46; Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 496.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

Messrs. Stratton Shartel, Attorney General of Missouri,
J. W. Cammack, Attorney General of Kentucky, Charles
H. Thompson, Attorney General of Tennessee, Percy
Saint, Attorney General of Louisiana, Rush H. Knox, Attorney General of Mississippi, Hal L. Norwood, Attorney
General of Arkansas, and Daniel N. Kirby, on behalf of
the Mississippi Valley States, intervening defendants,
joined in the foregoing brief.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These suits, brought to prevent the State of Illinois
and the Sanitary District of Chicago from continuing
to withdraw water from Lake Michigan as they now are
doing, have passed through their first stage in this Court.
The facts were set forth in detail and the law governing the parties was established by the decision reported
in 278 U. S. 367. It was decided that the defendant
State and its creature the Sanitary District were reduc
ing the level of the Great Lakes, were inflicting great
losses upon the complainants and were violating their
rights, by diverting from Lake Michigan 8,500 or more
cubic feet per second into the Chicago Drainage Canal
for the purpose of diluting and carrying away the sewage
of Chicago. The diversion of the water for that purpose
was held illegal, buc the restoration of the just rights
of the complainants was made gradual rather than immediate in order to avoid so far as might be the possible
pestilence and ruin with which the defendants have done
much to confront themselves. The case was referred
a second time to the master to consider what measures
would be necessary and what time required to effect the
object to be attained. The master now has reported.Both sides have taken exceptions, but, as we shall endeavor to show, the issues open here are of no great
scope.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

197

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants have submitted their plans for the disposal of the sewage of Chicago in such a way as to diminish so far as possible the diversion of water from the
Lake. In the main these plans are approved by the
complainants. The master has given them a most
thorough and conscientious examination. But they are
material only as bearing on the amount of diminution
to be required from time to time and the times to be fixed
for each step,'and therefore we shall not repeat the examination. It already has been decided that the defendants are doing a wrong to the complainants and that they
must stop it. They must find out a way at their peril.
We have only to consider what is possible if the State of
Illinois devotes all its powers to dealing with an exigency
to the magnitude of which it seems not yet to have fully
awaked. It can base no defences upon difficulties that it
has itself created. If its constitution stands in the way
of prompt action it must amend it or yield to an-authority that is paramount to the State.
The defendants' exceptions deal with the extent to
which the diversion of water should be reduced and to
the time at which the reductions slhould take place. They
argue that a recent rise in the level of Lake Michigan
should be taken into account. This cannot be done.
Apart from the speculation involved as to the duration
of the rise, there is a wrong to be righted, and the delays
allowed are allowed only for the purpose of limiting,
within fair possibility, the requirements of immediate
justice pressed by the complaining States. 'These requirements as between the parties are the constitutional
right of those States, subject to whatever modification
they hereafter may be subjected to by Congress acting
within its authority. It will be time enough to consider
the scope of that authority when it is exercised. In present conditions there is no invasion of it by the former
decision of this Court, as urged by the defendants. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

right of the complainants to a decree is not affected by
the possibility that Congress may take some action in
the matter. See Southern Utilities Co. v. Palatka, 268
U. S. 232, 233. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 117.
The master finds that, on and after July 1, 1930, the
diversion of water from Lake Michigan should not be
allowed to exceed an annual average of 6,500 cubic feet
per second in addition to what is drawn for domestic uses.
He finds that when the contemplated controlling works
are constructed that are necessary for the purpose of preventing reversals of the'Chicago River at times of storm
and the introduction of storm flow into Lake Michigan,
works that will require the approval of the Secretary of
War and that the master finds should be completed and
put in operation within two years after the approval is
given, -and probably by December 31, 1935, the diversion
should be limited to an annual average of 5,000 c. f. s.
"in addition to domestic pumpage." On this point we
deal only with the amount and the time. When the
whole system for sewage treatment is complete and the
controlling works installed he finds that the diversion
should be cut down to an annual average of 1,500 c. f. s.
in addition -to domestic pumpage. This, he finds, should
be accomplished on or before December 31, 1938; and
the full operation of one of the contemplated works, the
West Side Sewage Treatment Plant, which would permit a partial reduction of the diversion, is to be not later
than December 31, 1935.' These recommendations are
subject to the appointment of a commission to supervise
the work, or, better in our opinion, to the filing with the
clerk of this Court, at stated periods, by the Sanitary
District, of reports as to the progress of the work, at the
coming in of which either party may make application
to the Court for such action as may seem to be suitable.
All action of the parties and the Court in this case will
be subject, of course, to any order that Congress may

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

.i99

Opinion of the Court.

make in pursuance of its constitutional powers and any
modification that necessity may show should be made by
this Court. These recommendations we approve within
the limits stated above, and they' will be embodied in the
decree. The defendants argue for delay at every point
but we have indicated sufficiently why their arguments
cannot prevail. The master was as liberal in the allowance of time as the evidence permitted him to be.
The exceptions of the complainants go mainly to a
point not yet mentioned. *The sewage of Chicago at
present is discharged into a canal that extends to Lockport on the Des Plaines River, (which flows into the
Illinois, which in its turn flows into the Mississippi,)
from Wilmette on the north and a point on the Lake
near the boundary line of Indiana on the south, with
another intake midway between these two at the mouth
of the Chicago River, which has been r.eversdd from its
former flow into Lake Michigan to a flow from the
Lake. The change is narrated at length in the former
decision of this case. 278 U. S.367, 401, et seq. See also
Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S.208, 211, et seq. s. c. 200
U. S.496. It is partially to oxidize and carry off this
sewage that the main diversion of water is made. The
complainants 'demand that this diversion cease, and the
canal be closed at: Lockport, with an incidental return
of the Chicago River to its original course. They also
argue that what is' called the domestic puppage after
being purified in the sewage works be returned tQ the
Lake. These demands seem to us excessive upon the
facts in this case. The master reports that the best
way of preventing the pollution of navigable waters is to
permit an outflow from the Drainage .Canal at Lockport,
and that the interests of navigation in theoChicago River
as a part of the port of Chicago will require the diversion of an annual average of from 1,000" c. f. s. to 1,500
c. f. s. in addition to domestic pumpage after the sewage

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

treatment program has been carried out. The canal was
opened at the beginning of the century, thirty years ago.
In 1900 it already was a subject of litigation in this
Court. The amount of water ultimately to be withdrawn unless Congress may prescribe a different measure
is relatively small. We think that upon the principles
stated in Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 520, et seq.,
the claims of the complainants should not be pressed to
a logical extreme without regard to relative suffering and
the time during which the complainants have let the
defendants go on without complaint.
Perhaps the complainants would not be very insistent
with regard to the 1,000 or 1,500 c. f. s. which earlier in
this case they seemed to admit to be reasonable, if their
demand were allowed that the domestic pumpage be
purified and returned to the Lake-a demand not contemplated by their bill. But purification is not absolute.
How nearly perfect it will be with the colossal works that
the defendants have started is somewhat a matter of
speculation. The master estimates that with efficient
operation the proposed treatment should reach an average of 85 per cent purification and probably will be 90
per cent or more. Even so we are somewhat surprised
that the complainants should desire the effluent returned.
The withdrawal of water for domestic purposes is not
assailed by the complainants and we are of opinion that
the course recommended by the master is more reasonable
than the opposite demand. If the amount withdrawn
should be excessive, it will be open to complaint. Whether
the right for domestic use extends to great industrial
plants within the District has not been argued but may
be open to consideration at some future time.
We see no reason why costs should not be paid by the
defendants, who have made this suit necessary by persisting- in unjustifiable acts. North Dakota v. Minnesota,
263 U. S. 583.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
179

Opinion of the Court.

A decree will be entered to the effect that, subject to
such modifications as may be ordered by the Court hereafter,
1. On and after July 1, 1930, the defendants, the State
of Illinois and the Sanitary District of Chicago, are enjoined from diverting any of the waters of the Great
Lakes-St. Lawrence system or watershed through the
Chicago Drainage Canal and its auxiliary channels or
otherwise in excess of an annual average of 6,500 c. f. s.
in addition to domestic pumpage.
2. That on and after December 31, 1935, unless good
cause be shown to the contrary the said defendants are
enjoined from diverting as above in excess of an annual
average of 5,000 c. f. s. in addition to domestic pumpage.
3. That on and after December 31, 1938, the said defendants are enjoined from diverting as above in excess
of the annual average of 1,500 c. f. s. in addition to domestic pumpage.
4. That the provisions of this decree as to the diverting of the waters of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence system or watershed relate to the flow diverted by the defendants exclusive of the water drawn by the City of
Chicago for domestic water supply purposes and entering
the Chicago River and its branches or the Calumet River
or the Chicago Drainage Canal as sewage. The amount
so diverted is to be determined by deducting from the
total flow at Lockport the amount of water pumped by
the City of Chicago into its water mains and as so computed will include the run-off of the Chicago and Calumet
drainage area.
5. That the defendant the Sanitary District of Chicago
shall file with the clerk of this Court semi-annually on
July first and January first of each year, beginning July
first, 1930, a report to this Court adequately setting forth
the progress made in the construction of the sewage treatment plants and appurtenances outlined in the program
as proposed by the Sanitary District of Chicago, and also

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

setting forth the extent and effects of the operation of the
sewage treatment plants, respectively, that shall have
been placed in operation, and also the average'diversion
of water from Lake Michigan during the period from the
entry of this decree down to the date of such report.
6. That on the coming in of each of said reports, and
on due notice to the other parties, any of the parties to
the above entitled suits, complainants or defendants, may
apply to the Court for such action or relief, either with
respect to. the time to be allowed for the construction, or
the progress of construction, or the methods of operation,
of any of said sewage treatment plants, or with respect
to the diversion of water from Lake Michigan, as may be
deemed to be appropriate.
7. That any of the parties hereto, complainants or defendants, may, irrespective of the filing of the above-described reports, apply at the foot of this. decree for any
other or further action or relief, and this Court retains
jurisdiction of the above-entitled suits for the purpose
of any order or direction, or modification of this decree,
or any supplemental decree, which it may deem at any
time to be proper in relation to the subject matter in
controversy.
The CHIEF JUsTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
UNITED STATES v. ADAMS.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOI THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF. ARKANSAS. ,

Nos. 281 and 282.

Argued MaTch 6, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. Under Rev. Stats. § 5209, as amended; U. S. C., Title 12, § 592;
which punishes any officer. of a federal reserve or member .bank

