OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S

October 1, 1927, is a valid exercise of that power. This
contention, also, is unsound.
The limits of the power to issue regulations are well
settled. InternationalRy. Co. v. Davidson, 257 U. S. 506,
514. They may not extend a statute or modify its provisions. The regulation of October 1, 1927, purports to
revoke unexpired permits as of December 31, 1928, without resort to the proceedings prescribed by §§ 5 and 9.
It thus attempts to deprive permittees of rights secured
to them by these sections of the Act. As was said in
Higgins v. Foster, 12 F. (2d) 646, 648: "We cannot see
that the Commissioner, under the guise of legislation,
may do in gross what he had no power to do in detail."
Whether or not the power to make regulations, or the
provision in § 6, authorizes the Bureau to fix expiration
dates for permits when issued, it does not authorize the
revocation of existing permits in violation of the express
provisions of the Act.
Affirmed.

CAMPBELL, FEDERAL PROHIBITION ADMINISTRATOR, ET AL. v. W. H. LONG & COMPANY,
INCORPORATED.
WYNNE, FEDERAL PROHIBITION ADMINISTRATOR, ET AL. v. SWANSON CHEMICAL CORPORATION.
DORAN, PROHIBITION COMMISSIONER, v.
CASPER.
CERTIORARI TO AND CERTIFICATES FROM THE CIRCUIT COURTS
OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND AND THIRD CIRCUITS, RESPECTIVELY.

Nos. 445, 510 and 511.

Argued April 25, 1930.-Decided May 26,
1930.

1. A permit to manufacture denatured alcohol under the Prohibition

Act, (§ 4, Title II, § 10,.Title III,) is not a permit to manufacture

CAMPBELL. v. LONG & CO.
610

Argument for Campbell et al.

"liquor," within the meaning of §§ 1 and 6, Title II, the latter
of which provides that permits to manufacture "liquor" may be
issued for only one year. P. 615.
2. A provision in a permit that it shall be in force until surrendered
by the bolder.or canceled by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
for violation of the National Prohibition Act or regulations made
pursuant thereto complies with the requirement of § 6, Title II
of theAct, that every permit "shall designate and limit the
.
time when" the authorized acts may be performed. Id.
3. A pernit to operate a denatuting plant, which permit provides that
it shall be in force until surrendered by the holder or canceled by
the Commissioner o; Internal Revenue for violation of the National
Prohibition Act or regulations made pursuant thereto, may not be
terminated by a general regulation providing that all such permits
shall expire on a date named. Id.
4. A permit to use specially denatured alcohol in the manufacture
of toilet preparations, whicli provides that it shall be in effect
until surrendered by the holder or canceled by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue for violation of the provisions of Title III
of the National Prohibition Act or the regulations made pursuant
thereto, may not be terminated by a general regulation providing
that all such permits shall expire on a date. named. P. 617.
34 F. (2d) 645, affirmed.
Certified questions answered.

like those dealt with in the opinion on
p. 599, ante. The first of them came here by certiorari to
review a decree affirming an injunction. In the other
two, decrees of the District Court granting injunctions,
30 F. (2d) 400, were appealed to, the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which sent up questions by certificate.
THESE CASES are

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell, Messrs. Mahlon D. Kieferand

John H. McEvers were on the brief, for Campbell, Wynne,
and Doran.
A permit to use specially denatured alcohol is to be
distinguished from a permit to use liquor. The manu-

facture and use of liquor is governed by the statutory

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

permit system. The manufacture of denatured alcohol
requires the use of alcohol and is therefore also governed
by the statutory permit system. Denatured alcohol, however, after having been manufactured and prepared for
the market (for use) is expressly excluded from the provisions of the National Prohibition Act and is not to be
treated as liquor. The use of denatured alcohol, and its
alcoholic content, tax free, is controlled entirely by regulations. Permits may or may not be required. Having
the authority to require permits, the administrative
officers have the authority to provide for their revocation.
Revocations are governed by regulations, and not by
statute. Section 9 of Title II relates to the revocation of
statutory permits. It has no relation to permits required
solely by regulations. The power to issue regulations includes the power to repeal, amend, or modify such regulations. The promulgation of Article 113 of Regulations 3
was a valid exercise of that power.
If, however, it be held that § 9 of Title II applies to the
revocation of a permit to use denatured alcohol, § 6 of
Title II likewise has application.
Mr. Lewis Landes submitted for W. H. Long & Company.
Mr. Harry S. Barger submitted and Mr. Michael Serody
was on- the brief for Swanson Chemical Corporation.
Mr. Patrick J. Friel submitted for Casper.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These three cases deal with basic permits concerning
denatured alcohol. They were argued together with Nos.

CAMPBELL v. LONG & CO.
610

613

Opinion of the Court.

443 and 444, Campbell v. Galeno Chemical Co., ante, p.
599, decided this day, and involve, in the main, the same
questions.
In Nos. 445 and 510, the permits involved authorize the
operation of denaturing plants, the purchase and receipt
of alcohol thereat, and the removal therefrom of the denatured alcohol. In No. 511, the permit authorizes the
use of specially denatured alcohol' in the manufacture
of toilet preparations.2 In each of the three cases the
permit was issued prior to October 1, 1927, and was in
accordance with the regulations in force at the date of
issuance.' Each permit provides in terms that it shall
be in force "from the date hereof until surrendered by
the holder or cancelled by the Commissioner of Internal
I " Completely denatured alcohol is alcohol which has been denatured
by a limited number of fixed formulae, for sale to the general public
with very little supervision. Specially denatured alcohol is alcohol
which is not as completely denatured as the ' completely,' and can only
be obtained under a heavy bond for use in manufacturing processes in
which the alcohol is always protected by the bond."--Treasury Dept.,
Internal Revenue Regulations 61, Jan. 31, 1920 (T. D. 2986), Art.
92. "Specially denatured alcohol is ethyl alcohol so treated with
denaturants as to permit its use in a greater number of specialized
arts and industries than completely denatured alcohol." Regulations
61, revised July 1925, Art. 88.
2 As in Nos. 443 and 444, two permits are required from the plaintiffs in these cases. One, the basic permit conferring general authority
to engage in the business; the other, a supplemental permit, issued
from time to time, granting authority for specific withdrawals of
alcohol or specially denatured alcohol. Only the basic permits are
here involved.
' The first regulations promulgated under the Prohibition Act,
Regulations 61, January 31, 1920, provided that permits to operate
denaturing plants and permits to use specially denatured alcohol in
manufacture should "remain in force until voluntarily surrendered
or cancelled."--Articles 97 and 115. These provisions were continued
in Articles 93 and 111 of Regulations 61, revised July 1925. These
Regulations were superseded by Regulations 3, discussed in the text.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Revenue for violation of the national prohibition act 4 or
regulations made pursuant thereto."
While the permits of the several plaintiffs were still in
force, the Treasury Department, Bureau of Prohibition,
promulgated Regulations 3, effective October 1, .1927.
Article 95 there6f provides that all basic permits theretofore issued to operate denaturing plants and manufacture
denatured alcohol shall expire on December 31, 1928. unless renewed; and that thereafter only annual permits
shall be issued. Article 113 makes the same provision
for permits to use specially denatured alcohol in the
manufacture of toilet and other preparations. The plaintiffs, insisting on the effectiveness of their original permits, filed applications for renewal, which were denied.
These suits were then brought to enjoin interference with
their permits otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of § 9 of the Act, considered in the Galeno case.
In No. 445 an injunction was issued by the trial court;
the decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, 34 F. (2d) 645; and we granted
certiorari, 280 U. S. 548. Injunctions were granted by
the trial court also in Nos. 510 and 511, 30 F. (2d) 400 5;
appeals were taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit; and these cases are here on certificates
from that court.
Among the "articles " enumerated in § 4, Title II, of
the National Prohibition Act, (Oct. 28, 1919, c. 85, 41
Stat.'305, 309), which may be manufactured with the use
of liquor, under permits, and which are excepted from
operat~on of the act " after having been manufactured
and prepared for the market," are: "(a) Denatured al4 The

permit in No. 511 reads: " for violation of the provisions of

Title III of the national" etc.
3The District Court's opinion in No. 510 is not yet reported. The
case was heard by the court together with No. 511 and was disposed
of on the same grounds as No. 511. [Since reported, 41 F. (2d) 784.]

CAMPBELL v. LONG & CO.
610

Opinion of the Court.

cohol . . . produced and used as provided by laws and
regulations now or hereafter in force. .... (d) Toilet . . .
preparations and solutions that are unfit for use for beverage purposes." Title III, headed "Industrial Alcohol"
provides, in § 10: "Upon the filing of application and
bond and issuance of permit, denaturing plants may be
established . . and shall be used exclusively for the
denaturation of alcohol by the admixture of such denaturing materials as shall render the alcohol, or any compound in which it is authorized to be used, unfit for use
as an intoxicating beverage. Alcohol lawfully denatured
may, under regulations be sold free of tax either for domestic use or for export." There is no provision in the
Act specifically requiring permits for the manufacture
of toilet preparations with denatured alcohol.
First. The contentions of the Government in Nos. 445
and 510 are those already considered in Campbell v. Galena Chemical Co., supra. The questions certified in No.
510 are:
" 1. Is denatured alcohol, during its manufacture and
preparation for the market,,' liquor' within the meaning
of sections 1 and 6, Title II, of the national prohibition
act, the latter of which provides that permits to manufacture 'liquor' may be issued for only onE year?
"2. Does the provision of section 6, Title II, of the
national prohibition act, which directs that every permit
'shall designate and limit the . . . time when' the authorized acts may be performed, apply to a permit to
operate a denaturing plant, i. e., to use alcohol in the
manufacture of denatured alcohol?
"3. Does a provision in a permit that it shall be in
force until 'surrendered by the holder oF canceled by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue for violation of the
national prohibition act or regulations made pursuant
thereto,' comply with the above-mentioned requirement
of sect' on t oi'itle II of the national prohibition act, that

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

every permit 'shall designate and limit the
time
when' the authorized acts may be performed?
"4. May a permit to operate a denaturing plant, which
permit provides that it shall be in force ' until surrendered
by the holder or canceled by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for violation of the national prohibition
act or regulations made pursuant thereto,' be terminated
by a general regulation providing that all such permits
shall expire on a date named?"
We interpret the first question as inquiring whether a
permit to manufacture denatured alcohol is a permit to
manufacture liquor within the cited provision of § 6.
As thus construed, we answer it in the negative. For,
whether issued under § 4, Title II or under § 10, Title
III, the permits held by plaintiffs authorize them to convert something which is undoubtedly liquor into a product which is required to be unfit for use as a beverage;
that is, to convert liquor into something which is not
liquor.

Campbell v. Galeno Chemical Co., supra. For

r If read literally, the first question is irrelevant to'a decision and
need not be answered. For, calling the solution "liquor' during its
manufacture and preparation for the market-that is, before it is fully
denatured and becomes the "article," denatured alcohol--:-does not aid
in determining whether or not a permit to operate a denaturing plant
and manufacture denatured alcohol is a permit "to manufacture ...
liquor." The character of the permit is determined, not by the nature
of the solution in the process of manufacture, but by the character of
the finished article authorized to be produced.
7 We are not told what denaturants plaintiffs use; but we are
asked to take judicial notice that -denatured alcohol may be fitted
for beverage purposes by extracting the denaturant. We may also
take judicial notice that some denaturants cannot be successfully
extracted; and that any denaturant must b6 " such that it can not
be removed from the mixture and the treated product made fit for
beverage purposes without great difficulty." See "Industrial Alcohol," a monograph issued by the. Treasury Dept., Bureau of Prohibition, p. 4 (Gov't Ptg. Office, 1930). Moreover, from the standpoint
of caution, denatured alcohol, however treated, is not fit for beverage
purposes.

CAMPBELL v. LONG & CO.
610

617

Opinion of the Court.

the reasons stated in that case, our answer to the third
question is in the affirmative; and to the fourth question
in the negative. In view of the answer to the third question, the second question need not be answered.
Second. In No. 511, the Circuit Court of Appeals certified the following questions:
" 1. Does the provision of section 6, Title II, of the
national prohibition act, which directs that every permit
'shall designate and limit the . . . time when' the authorized acts may be performed, apply to a permit to use
specially denatured alcohol?
"2. (Same as question 3 in No. 510).8
"3. May a permit to use specially denatured alcohol in
the manufacture of toilet preparations, which permit provides that it shall 'be in effect until surrendered by the
holder or cancelled by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for violation of the provisions of Title III of the national prohibition act or the regulations made pursuant
thereto,' be terminated by a general regulation providing
that all such permits shall expire on a date named?"
In this Court, the Government concedes that the permit here involved is not one to manufacture liquor within
the meaning of either the special or the general time provisions of § 6. It contends, however, that since toilet
preparations and denatured alcohol used in their manufacture are both excluded by § 4 from the operation of
the Act, the.plaintiff's business is not one for which a permit is required by the statute; that if the plaintiff used
so-called completely denatured alcohol, no permit would
be required at all, Regulations 61 (1920), Art. 108; Regulations 3 (1927), Art. 106; that permits for the use of
specially denatured alcohol are required only by the regulations of the Bureau pursuant to its general authority,
conferred, among other sections, by § 13, Title III, to
1Except for the slight variation in the language of the permit mentioned in note 1, supra, and quoted in the third question.
-

618 *

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

make regulations to guard against the diversion of alcohol
for unlawful purposes and to protect the public revenue;
that the power to issue regulations includes the power to
repeal and amend them; that § 9, Title II, applies only
to the permits required by statute and does not abridge
the regulatory power with respect to permits required only
by administrative regulation. The conclusion is, in our
opinion, unsound.
Since no question has been raised as to the propriety of
plaintiff's permit, we do not inquire whether the permit
is required by the Act or whether its requirement by regulations is authorized thereby. But, if the requirement
of the permit is proper, it is so only because it is authorized by the Act, either explicitly or otherwise. There
is no suggestion that the regulations were made under
any other authority. If, then, the permit was issued under authority of the Prohibition Act, the plaintiff comes
within the description in § 9 of "any person who has a
permit "; and that section provides the exclusive procedure for the revocation of the permit. The attempt to
revoke it by regulations without complying with that section exceeds9 the authority, and violates rights, conferred
by the Act.
' The Government urges that under Act of October 3,
913, c. 16,
Section IV, N, subsec. 2, 38 Stat. 114, 199 and Act of June 7, 1906,
e. 3047, 34 Stat. 217 (U. S. C., Tit. 26, §§ 481-487), the requirement
of permits for the manufacture and denaturation of alcohol tax free,
in special cases, was governed entirely by regulations; that permits
under the regulations made pursuant to those Acts were limited
to specific amounts of alcohol (Regulations 30, Art. 60, 61, 77-90);
that §§ 10 and 11, Title III of the Act treat of similar subjects; and that the Prohibition Act, as shown by the report of
the House Judiciary Committee (H. R. Report No. 91, 66th Cong.,
1st sess., p. 2) purports to continue the policy of the prior Acts
and -regulations. There is a decisive difference between the Prohibition Act and those statutes. The latter are silent on the whole
subject of- permits; the former specifically provides how permits
should be revoked. Moreover, the plaintiffs in Nos. 443 and 444,

UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
610

Syllabus.

We answer the third question in the negative. For
reasons stated in connection with questions 2 and 3 in
No. 510, we answer the second question in the affirmative;
and do not answer the first.
No. 445-Affirmed.
No. 510--Question 1 answered No.
Question 2 not answered.
Question 3 answered Yes.
Question 4 answered No.
No. 511-Question 1 not answered.
Question 2 answered Yes.
Question 3 answered No.
UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
bEftTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 555.

Argued April 28, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

1. After entry of a plea of nolo contendere to an indictment charging
conspiracy unlawfully to transport intoxicating liquors in violation
of the National Prohibition Act, a stipulation of facts filed by a
relying on the same and even more specific portions of the House
Committee report referring to the Lever Act, August 10, 1918,
c. 53, §§ 15 and 16, 40 Stat. 276, 282, the Revenue Act of 1918,
February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1105-16, and Internal Revenue
conT. D. 2788, make quite as cogent an argument for a contrary
clusion. We need not consider the merits of either argument. For,
we are of opinion that § 9 is applicable to the permits involved in
all these cases. There is no need to seek light from debatable inferences from a general statement in the Committee report.
The Government also points out that, aside from the decisions in
Nos. 443, 444, 445 and 510, its contentions in No. 511 are of great
importance to the administrative officers in promulgating regulations
governing the use of specially denatured alcohol. Our decision merely
denies the power to revoke unexpired permits in a way other than
that prescribed in the Act. As in Nos. 443 and 445, we refrain from
deciding whether or not the Regulations are effective as to future
applicants for permits.

