OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

while it is for the state courts to determine the adjective

as well as the substantive law of the State, they must, in
so doing, accord the parties due process of law. Whether
acting through its judiciary or through its legislature, a
State may not deprive a person of all existing. remedies
for the enforcement of a right, which the State has no
power to destroy, unless there is, or was, afforded to him
some real opportunity to protect it? ' Compare Postal
Telegraph Cable Co. v. Newport, 247 U. S. 464, 475-6.
Third. The court's finding of laches was predicated entirely on the plaintiff's failure to apply to the State Tax
Coi]niission. In view of what we have said, this ground
is not sufficient independently to support the judgment.
And, as the Supreme Court of Missouri did not decide
whether the allegations of. the plaintiff's bill were sustained by the proof, we do not inquire into the merits of
the plaintiff's claim under the equal protection clause.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent. with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS did not-hear the argument
and took no part in the decision of this case.
NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE, INCORPORATED, v. CITY OF NEW ORLEANS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA..

No. 460.

Argued April 30, 1930.-Decided June 2, 1930.

Under authority contained i. a city ordinance granting it a franchise to construct and operate a street railway, along a city street,
Had -there been no previous construction of the statute by the
highest court, the plaintifq would, of course, have had to assume the
risk that the ultimate interpretation by the highest court might differ
from its own. Likewise, if the administrative remedy were still available to the plaintiff, there would be no denial of due process in that
regard.

N. 0. PUBLIC SERVICE v. NEW ORLEANS.
682

683

Counsel for Parties.

a company constructed, upon plans approved by the city, a singletrack viaduct for the passage of its cars over railroad tracks. When
the viaduct had long been in use, was about to' become inadequate, and was also unsafe and in need of extensive repairs, the city
by ordinance required the company to remove it and to construct
in its place double tracks at street level crossing the railroad. Held:
1. The later ordinance purports merely to regulate the use of
the streets for the convenience and safety of the public and does
not impair the company's franchise P. 685.
2. The ordinance is presumed to be valid and the burden is upon
the company to show that, having regard to the facts disclosed
by the record, removal of the existing viaduct and construction
of the crossings are so clearly unreasonable and arbitrary as to
amount to depriving the company of its property without due
process of law. P. 686.
3. The city, acting as the arm of the State, has a wide discretion in determining what precautions in the public interest are
necessary or appropriate under the circumstances. Id.
4. Enforcement of uncompensated obedience to a regulation
passed in the legitimate exertion of the police power is not a taking
of property without due process of law. P. 687.
5. The ordinance can not, upon the evidence, be held unreasonable because of the expense involved to the company in the sacrifice
of the viaduct and the construction of the new crossings. Id.
6. It is to be presumed, in support'of the ordinance, that the
city will make and enforce appropriate regulations to safeguard
against collisions at the grade crossing. Id.
168 La. 983, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree affirming a decree for the City in
its suit to require the appellant herein to remove a street
railway viaduct and construct double tracks at street level
across railroad tracks.
Mr. Alfred Charles Kammer, with whom Mr. Charles
Rosen was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Wm. F. Conkerton and Francis P. Burns, Assistant City Attorneys, with whom Mr. Bertrand I. Cahn,

City Attorney, was on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question presented by this appeal is whether an
ordinance of the city of New Orleans requiring the demolition of a viaduct and construction of grade crossings to
take its place violates the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution or the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. 28 U. S. C., ยง 344(a). King Mfg. Co. v.
Augusta, 277 U. S. 100.
Appellant has a franchise granted by the city for the
operation of a street railway system. One of its lines was
constructed along Franklin Avenue: That street intersects Florida Walk which is occupied by eight railroad
tracks now used by the Southern Railway Company.March 9, 1910, the city passed Ordinance 6445. It recited
that the railroad company objected to the street railway
crossing its tracks at grade, that the public interest would
best be served by a viaduct crossing and that the street
railway was willing to build one. It authorized the city
engineer to approve plans for. a viaduct to be constructed
approximately on the center line of Franklin Avenue and
to embrace earthen embankment approaches that would
not exceed the neutral space in Franklin Avenue or obstruct the roadways on either side of it. Following the
adoption of the ordinance the company built a singletrack trestle viaduct which has since been maintained and
used for the passage of its street cars over the railroad
tracks. November 7, 1926, the city passed Ordinance
9375 requiring appellant to remove the viaduct and to
construct in its place double tracks at street level across
the railroad tracks. Appellant refused and the city
brought this suit to compel compliance.
The complaint alleges: Because of increase of population, the single track is not sufficient to provide adequate
service for the people of that section. The viaduct has

N. 0. PUBLIC SERVICE v. NEW ORLEANS.
682

685

Opinion of the Court.

not been properly maintained and is dangerous to the
public. In order to eliminate grade crossings where
Franklin Avenue intersects the railroad tracks 6f the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, it would be
necessary to demolish the present viaduct and to construct across the tracks of both railroad companies a new
viaduct for two street-railway tracks, two vehicular roadways and two walks for pedestrians. The city would have
to contribute one-half the cost of such construction (Act
38 of 1924) and it is not finartcially able to do so at the
present time. The answer denies that the single track
viaduct is not sufficient to furnish adequate service or that
it is unsafe. It avers: The ordinance required the construction of the viaduct; it cost approximately $58,000,
and its purpose was to avoid having grade crossings over
much used railroad tracks. New crossings are not necessary. They will cost more than $135,000 and subject
users to hazards the viaduct was constructed to avoid.
The ordinance is arbitrary and violates the contract clause
of the Federal Constitution and the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. The trial court, without
making any specific findings of fact, entered a decree for
the city; the supreme court affirmed. 168 La. 983.
Appellant cites Grand Trunk Western Ry. v. South
Bend, 227 U. S.544, and Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 230 U. S.58, in each of which this Court condemned a city ordinance as repugnant to the contract
clause. In the former the ordinance attempted to repeal
a valid grant of a right to use a street for a railroad purpose that was found not to be injurious to the public. In
the latter the ordinance purported to require the telephone company to remove from city streets its poles and
wires which had been placed there under authority
granted by an earlier ordinance or to make payments not
provided for in the contract under which the telephone
lines were constructed. Neither of these cases has any

OCTOBER TERM, 1929,
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

application here. The ordinance now under consideration
does not aim to destroy or to exact payment for the right
of appellant to use the street for the operation of its street
railway. It purports merely to regulate the use of the
streets for the convenience and safety of the public. It
does not impair appellant's franchise.
The ordinance is presumed to be valid and the burden
is upon the appellant to show that, having regard to the
facts disclosed by the record, removal of the existing
viaduct and construction of the crossings are so clearly
unreasonable and arbitrary as to amount to the depriving
of appellant of its property without due process of law.
Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde, 275 U. S. 440, 447, 448.
Undoubtedly the city, acting as the arm of the State, has
a wide discretion in determining wb" precautions in the
public interest are necessary or appropriate under the
circumstances. Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 217.
Denver & R. G. R. R. Co. v. Denver, 250 U. S. 241, 244.
Regulations that are in principle fairly comparable to the
ordinance under consideration have been sustained by this
Court as within the scope of the police power.*
Ordinance 6445 merely authorized the street railway
company so to use the streets. No element of coercion
was involved. The opinion of the supreme court shows
that one of the roadways has been narrowed by the city's
construction of a sidewalk and, granting that the track is
not presently inadequate, indicates that additional capacity for service at this intersection is likely to be needed.
And, upon sufficient evidence, the court found that the
viaduct is unsafe and that extensive repairs are required
to put it in proper condition.
& R. G. R. R. Co. v. Denver, 250 U. S. 241. Chi., Mi. &
St. P. Ry. v. Minneapolis, 232 U. S. 430. Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Omaha, 235
U. S. 121. N. Y. & N. E. Railroad Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556.
Baltimore v. Baltimore Trust Co., 166 U. S. 673. New Orleans Gas
Co. v. Drainage Comm., 197 U. S. 453.
*Denver

N. 0. PUBLIC SERVICE v. NEW ORLEANS.
6S2

687

Opinion of the Court.

The value of the viaduct to be removed, the large expenditure involved for construction of the crossings in
its place, and the dangers incident to their use constitute
the sole basis of fact on which the ordinance is assailed.
It is elementary that enforcement of uncompensated
obedience to a regulation passed in the legitimate exertion
of the police power is not a taking of property without
due process of law. Chicago, B. & Q. Railroadv. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226, 251. C. B. & Q. Railway y. Drainagc
Conm'rs, 200 U. S.561, 594. Chicago & Alton R. R. v.
Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 67, 77. The sacrifice of the old
structure and the cost of the new crossings involve a large
amount of money. But the evidence fails to show that,
having regard to the circumstances, it is so large that the
regulation must be held to pass the limits of reasonable
judgment and amount to an infringement of the right of
ownership. While the elimination of grade crossings is
desirable in, the interest of safety, rere are. other means
that reasonably may be employea to safeguard against
collisions at intersections of public streets and railroad
tracks. Presumably the city will make and enforce appropriate regulations at this crossing. Appellant has failed
to establish facts sufficient to require a finding that under
conditions existing there it is not reasonably possible so
to do. And it has not shown that the ordinance is so
unreasonable that it transgresses constitutional limitations.
Decree affirmed.

