CHESAPEAKE &c. TEL. CO. v. U. S.
379

Syllabus.

would be extraordinary if the charges incident to a seizure
that the law did not intend the Custodian to make and
a possession that the law requires him to surrender, were
to be imposed upon the owner whose interests were
sacrificed up to the moment of restitution. It seems to
be going far enough to require him to bear the loss that he
has suffered, without compelling him to pay the Government for its outlay in doing him harm. See Hobbs v.
McLean, 117 U. S. 567, 582.
Decree reversed.
CHESAPEAKE & POTOMAC TELEPHONE COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 389.

Argued April 21, 22, 1930.-Decided May 5, 1930.

A telephone company, while under a standing written contract, made
with the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the Act of June
17, 1910, to furnish telephone equipment and service to the War
Department, installed in a building especially constructed for it
by the Government, an unusually large and very expensive switchboard to meet the growing needs of the Department during the
World War; and after the need was over and the switch-board
had been removed, it sued under the Dent Act to recover the cost
of installation less salvage. Held, upon the facts as found below:
1. That the switch-board was covered by the written contract,
and that the conduct of the parties following installation was
consistent with this view. P. 386.
2. That a contract for extra pay was not to be implied either
(a) from claims addressed to officials of the Department having
no authority to bind the Government and not assented to by them
or known to their superiors; or (b) from the fact that the plans
for the special building, showing the switch-board and equipment
proposed, were submitted to the Secretary of War; or (c) from
the fact that the Government had continued to use the switchboard after the claims were made. P. 388.
68 Ct. Cls. 273, affirmed.
98234 *-30

25

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI,

281 U. S.

280 U. S. 548, to review a judgment of the

Court of Claims, dismissing a petition to recover additional compensation upon a contract said to be implied
in fact.
Mr. Stanton C. Peelle, with whom Messrs. C. F. R.
Ogilby, Paul E. Lesh, Dale D. Drain, and Jerome F.
Barnardwere on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General
Rugg, and Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, and Heber H. Rice were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Cburt.

This is a suit under the Dent Act, March 2, 1919, c. 94,
40 Stat. 1272, to recover upon a contract said to be implied
in fact, to pay the cost of installing a very large telephone
switchboard for the War- Department during the late war,
less the amounts realized from the parts when the switch:
board was removed. The Court of Claims dismissed the
petition, and a writ of certiorari was granted by this
Court.
The decision of the Court of Claims went upon the
ground that the installation was covered by a written
contract between the plaintiff and the Secretary of the
Treasury, (Act of June 17, 1910, c. 297; 36 Stat. 468, 531;
U. S. Code, Tit. 41, ยง 7,) and that there was no subsequent contract enlarging the obligation of the Government; it being expressly found that the only persons to
whom any suggestion was made that additional pay was
expected had no authority to bind the Government, Jacob
Reed's Sons v. United States, 273 U. S. 200, 202; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S.592, 596,
and that the Secretary of War never heard the suggestion
or knew that a claim would be made until after the

CHESAPEAKE &c. TEL. CO. v. U. S.
385

Opinion of the Court.

armistice. We are of opinion that on the findings the
decision was right.
The contract in force when the work was completed,
June 22, 1918, bound the Telephone Company to "install,
equip, and maintain such telephone equipment as may
be required in the District of Columbia, and furnish
service in connection therewith" at rates set forth, one
item being "common battery private branch exchange
switchboards, including one operator's set of telephones
for each operator's position, each, per annum, $24.00."
Although it is argued that neither the Act of June 17,
1910, c. 297, nor the contract covered this unusually large
switchboard, we think it too plain for discussion that the
words used, taken literally, covered it in terms. The only
suggestion that needs a short answer is that this work
was so wholly outside anything that was contemplated
that a special agreement was necessary or at least just.
But war had been approaching and large additions had
been made without question until after war was declared,
April 6, 1917.. A little later the present structure was
placed in a separate building erected for it by the United
States. The understanding of the parties is shown by
the fact that a contract with similar terms was made for
the next year on September 25, 1918. The plaintiff sent
in and was paid bills for rental at the old rate, for increased
rates for the lines and stations, and other unquestioned
bills, without any attempt to charge for the expenses of
the new structure. The explanation of the slight charges
for rentals is simple and makes the whole business clear.
The settled policy of the Company was to rely for its chief
revenue on mileage charges upon 'station lines, charges for
telephone stations, and local messages. Had the war gone
on another year probably it would have made a good deal
of money. The American Telegraph and Telephone Company regarded the problem of increased telephone service
at the War Department as largely its own, and in fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

has more than reimbursed the plaintiff for its loss. When
the plaintiff's district manager told his superior officer
that the installation ought to be held up until they got
a written order, he was told that they wanted to do everything possible for the Government and would take their
chances of getting. paid.
There is nothing upon which the Company can found a
claim except that in January, 1918, it advised the person
who was in charge of the telephone service of the War
Department, but whose salary the plaintiff paid, and another under whose general direction the service was, that
it expected the Government to pay the cost of the new
switchboard, less salvage. There was no assent to this
expectation, nor did these officers have any authority to
give such assent, and as we have said there was neither
assent nor knowledge on the part of those higher up. The
fact that plans of the building to be erected by the Government showing the switchboard and equipment proposed were submitted to the Secretary of War is no help
to"the plaintiff. Of course they were, whichever was to
pay the bills. Neither was the continued use of the
structure after the plaintiff had made its claims. The
Government had to use it, and had the. right to use it,
whether the Government was bound to pay, or whether,
as the plaintiff's engineer said to its district manager, the
Telephone Company took the chances of getting paid.
The Government had the plaintiff's contract and would
have had the right to rely upon it even if it had been informed that the plaintiff was dissatisfied. It seems to us
that the dissent of two of the Judges of the Court below
is directed rather to the findings than to the statement of
the law upon the findings as they stand. These are not
open to question before us.
Judgment affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

