PITTSBURGH & W. VA. RY. v. U. S.
470

Syllabus.

cumbent on the appellant to present in support of his
asserted right of attack every available ground of which
he had knowledge. He was not at liberty to prosecute
that right by piecemeal, as by presenting a part only of
the available grounds and reserving others for another
suit, if failing in that. TVerlein v. New Orleans, 177 U. S.
390, 398, et seq; United States v. California and Oregon
Land Co., 192 U. S. 355, 358.
As the ground just described was available but not put
forward the appellant must abide by the rule that a judgment upon the merits in one suit is res judicata in another where the parties and subject matter are the same,
not only as respects matters actually presented to sustain
or defeat the right asserted, but also as respects any other
available matter which might have been presented to that
end. Baltimore S. S. Co. v. Phillips, 274 U. S. 316, 319;
United States v. Moser, 266 U. S. 236, 241; Cromwell v.
County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 352.
We think it follows from what has been said that the
objections taken to the decree below are so unsubstantial
that the motion to affirm without awaiting oral argument
should be sustained.
Decree affirmed.
PITTSBURGH & WEST VIRGINIA RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 680.

Argued April 15, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.

1. The fact that a railway company intervened before the Interstate
Commerce Commission to oppose the granting to another railway
company of a certificate of public convenience and necessity permitting the latter to abandon one of its stitions and to use instead
the facilities of a terminal established by other carriers, gives the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

tervening company no standing to bring an independent suit under
the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913, to set aside the
order of the Commission granting the certificate, in the absence of
resulting actual or threatened legal injury to such complainant.
P. 486.
2. An independent standing to bring such a suit can not be based upon
the fact that the lines of the complaining carrier connect with those
of the carrier to which the certificate is granted, where the connection is remote from the point to which the certificate relates and
there is no suggestion that the order can affect the complainant
as a carrier. Id.
3. An independent standing to bring such a suit cannot be grounded
upon the proposition that, by acting upon the certificate, the carrier to which it is granted may, through future regulation of the
rates of the terminal, incur liabilities threatening to its financial
stability and consequently threatening to the financial interest of
the complainant as a minority stockholder of such carrier. P. 487.
4. A railway company, as a minority stockholder of another which,
pursuant to a certificate granted by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, was about to abandon one of its stations- and avail
itself of other terminal facilities under contracts with other carriers, filed a bill in the District Court, joining the United States,
the Commission, the grantee of the certificate and the other carriers, as defendants, and praying (1) that the order granting the
certificate be set aside; (2) that the company holding the certificate be enjoined from abandoning its station and performing its
contracts upon the ground that its directors held office illegally
and, in making the contracts and applying for the certificate, were
guilty of a breach of trust and violated the rights of stockholders
under the state law. Held:
(1) That relief on the second ground, not being ancillary to nor
dependent upon the judgment as to the order of the Commission,
may not be included in a bill before three judges to set the order
aside, but is appropriate only to a suit invoking the plenary
equity jurisdiction of the District Court and to be heard in ordinary course by a single judge. The Chicago Junction Case, 264
U. S. 258, distinguished. P. 488.
.
(2) The decree of the District Court as to such general equitable
relief is not reviewable in this Court on direct appeal. Id.
(3) Grounds for general equitable relief can not give standing
in this Court on direct appeal under the Urgent Deficiencies Act to
a plaintiff who had no right to bring the suit under that Act. Id.

PITTSBURGH & W. VA. RY. v. U. S.
479

Opinion of the Court.

5. A decree dismissing on the merits a bill which should have been dismissed for want of standing in the plaintiff to sue, affirmed without
prejudice to enforcement of the plaintiff's rights in a proper proceeding. P. 489.
41 F. (2d) 806, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a bill to annul an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission and for other equitable relief. The three judge
court was of opinion that the grounds of complaint beyond
the attack on the order were not properly before it, but,
since diversity of citizenship existed and the district judge
concurred in the decree, it passed on them and reserved
to appellant the riglit (.of which it did not avail itself) to
sever those issues for purposes of appeal and treat its decision on them. as the decision of a single judge.
Mr. H. H. Hoppe, with whom Mr. C. F. Taplin was on
the brief, for'appellant.
Attorney Geieral Mitchell, Assistant to the Attorney
General O'Brian, Messrs. Elmer B. Collins, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, Daniel W. Knowlton,
Chief Counsel, Interstate Commerce Commission, and
Nelson Thomas were on the brief for the United Stateg
arid Interstate Commerce Commission.
Messrs. W. C. Boyle, Clan Crawford, Charles F. Close,
and Andrew P. Martin were on the brief for the Wheeling
& Lake Erie Railway Company.
Messrs. W. H. Boyd, H. H. McKeehan, L. C. Wykoif,
Charles W. Stage, and George William Cottrell were on
the brief for the eleveland Union Terminals Cpmpany and
th Cleveland Terminals Building Company.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1921, the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized the New York Central Railroad and other rail car98234*-30-31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

riers to join in establishing a union passenger station at
Cleveland, through a subsidiary, the Cleveland Union
Terminals Company.' The Cleveland Passeger Terminal Case, 70 I. C. C. 659. "The Wheeling & Lake Erie
Railway Company had for some years owned and maintained an independent passenger station at Ontario Street
in Cleveland in the line of the easterly approach to the
proposed union terminal. It was apparent from the outset that either ownership of or an easement in the Wheeling's site would be indispensable in order to provide the
necessary easterly approach to the terminal.2 Long negotiations culminated in a plan whereby the Wheeling
consented to sell its site and become a tenant in the new
terminal at an annual rental of $20,000. Cmntracts were
made embodying this plan, subject to approval of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
'Application for this authority had previously been dismissed. 70
I. C. C. 342. The Union Terminals Company is owned entirely by
the New York Central, the New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad
Co. (Nickel Plate), and the Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St.
Louis Railway Co. (Big Four).
2 The land upon which the station was to be constructed was
owned by the Cleveland Terminals Building Company. It conveyed
the ground to the Terminals Company, reserving the air rights to
itself. And it undertook to procure for Terminals an easement in
Wheeling's site.
I Five contracts were executed by the Wheeling: (a) A contract
with the Building Company containing an option to sell the Ontario
Street site for $1,600,000; (b) a contract with the Terminals for the
use of the union depot; (the provisions of this contract are set
out in detail in the report of the Commission); (c) a contract with
the Erie Railroad for the temporary use of its Superior Avenue station pending completion of the union terminal; (d) a contract with
the Big Four for the temporary use of its tracks in order to reach
the Erie's station; (e) a contract with the Terminals for reimbursement by it of the amounts which the Wheeling would have to pay
under its contracts with the Erie and the Big Four.

PITTSBURGH & W. VA. RY. v. U. S.
479

. Opinion of the Court.

Thereupon, the Wheeling filed before the Commission
two applications for certificates of public convenience and
necessity, one permitting it to abandon its Ontario Street
station,' the other authorizing it to use the facilities of
the union terminal and, pending its completion, to use the
facilities of the station of the Erie Railroad and the
tracks of the Big Four. These applications were heard
together as one case. The Pittsburgh & West Virginia
Railway, a minority stockholder and connecting carrier of
the Wheeling, was permitted to intervene and was heard
in opposition to the applications. It opposed them on
the grounds that the Ontario Street station was ample
for both the present and future needs of the Wheeling;
that the Wheeling's applications were authorized by directors elected by the votes of stock owned in violation of
the Clayton Act by the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, the
New York Central and the Nickel Plate (In'terstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 152
I. C. C. 721); that the contracts executed by the Wheeling
were made without first securing the consent of its stockholders, as required by the-laws of Ohio; that the Wheeling's directors were interested in the union terminal project and did not give the Wheeling the benefit of their
unbiased judgment; that the price to be paid the Wheeling for its site was inadequate and not the best price
obtainable; that the Terminals Company is a common
carrier whose rates are subject to regulation; that the
yearly rental to be paid by the Wheeling is unduly low and
unreasonably preferential of the Wheeling; that it is
4 This

authority was also sought from the Publip Utilities Commission of Ohio, but the application was dismissed for want of jurisdiction

and the order of. dismissal was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Ohio. Pittsburgh& West Virginia Ry. Co. v. Pub. Util. Comm., 120
0. S. 434. See also Wheeling & Lake Erie Ry. Co. v. Pittsburah&
West Virginia Ry. Co., 33 F. (2d) 390.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

therefore subject to be increased by the Interstate Commerce Commission; and that, if increased so as to eliminate the preference, it would confessedly be much more
than the Wheeling could afford to pay and would imperil
its financial condition.
The Commission held that the violation of the Clayton
Act was immaterial since the election of the directors
occurred prior to the Commission's finding of violation
and the finding was not made retroactive; that it lacked
jurisdiction to pass upon the alleged violations of Ohio
law or upon the adequacy of the price agreed to be paid
for the Wheeling's site; that under paragraph (4) of § 3
of the Interstate Commerce Act, the agreed rental for the
Wheeling's use of the union station was not subject to be
increased by it; and that in view of all the circumstances,
the rental v .s not unduly preferential of the Wheeling.
It found that public convenience and necessity would be
served by the granting of both applications; and accordingly issued its certificate as prayed for. Operation of
Passenger Terminal Facilities at Cleveland, Ohio, by
Wheeling & Lake Erie Ry. Co., 154 I. C. C. 516.
The Pittsburgh & West Virginia then brought this suit
in the District court for northern Ohio, eastern division.
It joined as defendants the Wheeling, the Erie, the Big
Four, the Terminals Company, the Building Company,
the Interstate Commerce Commission and the United
States. The purpose of the suit, as stated in the complaint, was two fold: first, to enjoin the Wheeling from
abandoning its Ontario Street station and from performing its contracts with the other defendants; secondly, to
set aside and annul the order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission granting the certificate of public convenience
and necessity. Separate relief was prayed for accordingly. As against the Wheeling, the prayer was founded
on the several grounds advanced before the Commission.
As against the United States and the Commission, on the

PITTSBURGH & W. VA. RY. v. U. S.
479

485

Opinion of the Court.

additional ground that the order was based on erroneous
conclusions of law; to wit, that the Commission had no
jurisdiction to pass on the adequacy of the price to be
paid for the land and on the alleged violations of the
laws of Ohio; that the Wheeling's directors were competent to act for it in this matter; and that the rental
agreed to be paid by the Wheeling for the use of the
union terminal facilities was not subject to be increased
by the Commission.
The Pittsburgh moved for an interlocutory injunction.
As the bill sought to suspend and set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, the District Judge
called to his assistance two additional judges pursuant to
the Urgent Deficiencies Act, October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38
Stat. 208, 219-20. By consent of the, parties, the case
was then heard, as upon final hearing; ' and the court
5 When

the motion for a preliminary injunction was reached for
hearing, the court formally " announced that the hearing, either.
temporary or as final, would be considered as involving two classes
of questions: First, those involving the validity of the order of
Interstate Commerce Commission as dependent upon the record
before it and thus involving questions of public interest in which the
United States and Interstate Commerce Commission are interested;
and second, those involving all other grounds of attack upon the
proposed action of the defendant [the Wheeling] and in which
neither the United States nor the Interstate Commerce Commission
was interested; and that the hearing would proceed upon the first
class of questions involved; that the court would then decide whether
to dispose of the matter upon those questions or to continue the hearing upon the other questions. . . . Thereupon . . . the record of the
proceedings and testimony before the Interstate Commerce Commission . . . was received . . . upon the first class of questions, and
the extent of its admissibility on the second class . . . reserved until
the hearing of that branch of the case." But no further hearings
were held. Appellant claimed the right to introduce additional evidence and excepted to the above ruling of the court. Compare Tagg
Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 442. Appellant's
consent to final submission was subject to the above claims,

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

entered a final decree dismissing the bill on the merits as
to both classes of relief prayed for. It declared, however,
that the questions concerning the alleged violation of
Ohio law, the competency of the Wheeling's directors and
the other grounds of attack on the Wheeling's action
were not properly before it as a three judge court. But,
since diversity of citizenship existed and the district judge
concurred in the judgment, the court passed on them and
reserved to appellant the right to sever these issues for
purposes of appeal and treat its decision on them as the
decision of a single judge. Pittsburgh & West Virginia
Ry.Co. v. United States, 41 F. (2d) 806. Appellant did
not avail itself of this privilege but prosecuted a direct
appeal to this Court from the whole decree. It repeats
here the *several grounds of attack urged before the district court. We have no occasion to consider the merits
of the controversy. For, we are of opinion that appellant
had no standing to bring this suit as one to set aside an
order of the Commission; and that, insofar as the suit
may be treated as one within the general equity jurisdiction of the District Court, we have no jurisdiction on a
direct appeal to review its decision.
First. The District Court held that the appellant was
entitled to bring this suit under the Urgent Deficiencies
Act to set aside the 'order, because it had intervened in
the proceedings before the Commission, and because it is
a connecting carrier and a minority stockholder of the
Wheeling. The court erred in so holding. The mere
fact that appellant was permitted to intervene before the
Commission does not entitle it to institute an independent
suit to set aside the Commission's order in the absence of
resulting actual or threatened 'legal injury to it, Alexander Sprunt & Son v. United States, ante, p. 249. Nor
does the mere fact that its lines connect with those of the

PITTSBURGH & W. VA. RY. v. U. S.
479

Opinion of the Court.

Wheeling near the City of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,'
entitle it to bring the suit. Its lines do not extend to
Cleveland; and there is no suggestion that the order can
affect it as carrier.' Finally, the claim that the order
threatens the Wheeling's financial stability, and consequently appellant's financial interest as a minority stockholder is not sufficient to show a threat of the legal injury
necessary to entitle it to bring a suit to set aside the
order. This financial interest does not differ from that
of every investor in Wheeling securities or from an investor's interest in any business transaction or lawsuit of
his corporation. Unlike orders entered in cases of reorganization, and in some cases of acquisition of control of
one carrier by another,8 the order under attack does
not deal with the interests of investors. The injury
feared is the indirect harm which may result to every
stockholder from harm to the corporation. Such stockholder's interest is clearly insufficient to give the Pittsburgh a standing independently t6 institute suit to annul
6The Pittsburgh's lines connect with .those of the Wheeling at
Mingo Junction and at Pittsburgh Junction, Ohio.

The Pittsburgh contends also that it is seeking to acquire control
of the Wheeling and that the Interstate Commerce Commission has
allocated the Wheeling and the Pittsburgh to one system in its plan
for the consolidation of the railroads. But these vague speculative
interests are clearly insufficient to give the Pittsburgh an independent
standing in this suit.
I See Control of Big Four by N. Y. Central, 72 I. C. C. 96; Nickel
Plate Unification, 105 I. C. C. 425; Control of Cincinnati, Indianapolis & Western R. R., 124 I. C. C. 476; Unification of Southwestern
Lines, 124 I.'C. C. 401; N. Y. Central Unification, 150 I. C. C. 278;
Lease of Louisville, Henderson & St. Louis Ry., 150 I. C. C. 741;
Control Erie R. R. & Pere Marquette Ry., 150 I. C. C. 751; Denver
& Rio Grande Western Reorganization, 90 I. C. C. 141. Compare
Stock of Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 131 I. C. C. 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

this order. The bill should have been dismissed without
inquiry into the merits.
Second. The prayer that the contemplated action of the
Wheeling should be enjoined because its directors hold
office illegally, are faithless to their trust, are acting in
violation of the rights of stockholders under the Ohio law,
and, hence, that the Wheeling could not legally exercise
the authority granted to it by the Commission, was not
properly joined in this suit and is not subject to review
in this Court on a direct appeal. An application for such
relief may not be included in a bill under the Urgent
Deficiencies Act to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Compare Cleveland, C. C. & St.
L. Ry. Co. v. United States, 275 U. S. 404, 414; Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 172, 181.
It is neither ancillary to nor dependent upon the judgment as to the order. Relief of that character may be
had only in a suit invoking the plenary equity jurisdiction
of the district court. Such a suit would be heard in ordinary course by a single judge; and it would be appealable
only to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The case at bar
is wholly unlike The Chicago Junction Case,, 264 U. S.
258, 269, where a prayer to set aside the illegal purchase
of stock and the lease already made was held proper as
ancillary to setting aside the order of the Commission
authorizing the same. There, the joinder was permitted
in order to carry out the purpose of, Congress to make
the judicial review effective. Here, 'such joinder is unnecessary for that purpose. Moreover, grounds for general equitable relief, obviously, cannot give the. Pittsburgh
a standing in this Court on direct appeal under the Urgent
Deficiencies Act, when it had no right to bring suit under
that Act.
While there was no occasion for the district court to
consider the merits, the bill was properly dismissed. The

UNITED STATES v. UPDIKE.
479

489

Syllabus.

decree is affirmed without prejudice to the right, if any,
of the Pittsburgh to enjoin in a proper proceeding action
by the Wheeling.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. UPDIKE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 340. Argued April 15, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. Under §§ 278 (d) and 280 of the Revenue Act of 1926, a suit in
equity against stockholders of a dissolved corporation to charge
them, as distributees of its assets, with the amount of a tax
assessed against the corporation, is a proceeding to collect the tax
and is barred if not brought within six years after the assessment.
P. 492.
2. Where, under the Revenue Act of 1926 in a " no return" case, an
assessment, which, under § 278 (a), may be made at any time, has
in fact been made, a proceeding to collect must be begun within
six years thereafter; but where there has been no assessment, the
proceeding may be begun at any time. P. 494.
3. The provision of § 278 (d) of the Revenue -Act of 1926, that,
"Where the assessment . . . has been made . . . within
the statutory period of limitation properly applivable thereto, such
tax may be collected . . . by a proceeding in court
but only if begun (1) within six years after the assessment of the
tax," applies to an assessment in 1920 of 1917 taxes, notwithstanding that in 1920 when the assessment was made, there was, and had
been, no provision of law which in any form limited the time for
assessing or collecting taxes. P. 495.
4. The saving clause, "within the statutory period of limitation
properly applicable thereto," in § 278 (d) of the Revenue Act of
1926, was inserted solely for the protection of the taxpayer; that is
to say, in order to preclude collection of the tax even within six
years after the assessment, if that assessment, when made, was
barred by the applicable statutory limitation. P. 496.
5. Taxing acts, including provisions of limitation embodied therein,
are to be construed liberally in favor of the taxpayer. Id.
32,F. (2d) 1, affirmed.

