OCTOBER TERM, 1929.

238

Argument for Petitioners.

281 U. S.

unloading a vessel are entitled to recover under it, even
though without remedy under local compensation laws.
See § 3 (a) [33 U. S. C. A., § 903 (a)].
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

con-

cur.

MAY

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS, v. HEINER, COLLECTOR
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 311.

Argued March 7, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. A transfer in trust by a grantor since deceased, under which
the income was payable to decedent's husband during his lifetime
and after his death to the decedent during her lifetime, with remainder over to her children, held not made in contemplation of
or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after
death, within the legal significance of those words, and that, there-

fore, the corpus of the trust should not be included in the value of
the gross estate of the decedent for purposes of -estate tax under
§ 402 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1918. P. 243.
2. The estate tax of- the Revenue Act of 1918, § 401, imposes an
excise upon the transfer of an estate upon the death of the owner.
P. 244.
32 F. (2d) 1017, reversed.

280 U. S. 542, to review a judgment of-the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of
the District Court, 25 F. (2d) 1004, sustaining a federal
estate tax.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Charles H. Sachs, with whom Mr. Louis Caplan
was on the brief, for petitioners.
The transfer in this case was effective to pass the title
to the property and the economic benefits to be derived
therefrom immediately when it was made, on October
1, 1917.

MAY v. HEINER.
238

Argument for Respondent.

The only interest which decedent had in the property
at the time of.her death was her contingent life estate.
If neither the value of the life estates, nor that of the
remainders, was required to be included in the gross
estate in the Reinecke case, 278 U. S. 339, notwithstanding
the fact that the remainders were intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment at or after settlor's death, the
value of the life estate given here to the settlor's husband,
and the value of the remainder given to her children,
should not be included in the gross estate. The circumstance that in this case there was the possibility of a life
estate in favor of settlor intervening does not detract from
the finality and irrevocability of the estates given to
others. In principle, there is no difference between the
gift of a life estate to A, with remainder to B, and a gift
of a life estate to A, a life estate to Z, if the latter survives
A, and the remainder to B.
A tax attaches only in those cases where there is a
shifting of the economic use and benefit of property upon
the death of the settlor, and the tax is measured by the
value of the economic benefits which pass from the settlor
to his successor by the settlor's death. Chase Nat'l Bank
v. United States, 278 U. S.327; Carnill v. McCaughn, 30
F. (2d) 696; Nichols v. Bradley, 27 F. (2d) 47.
If the Revenue Act of 1918, according to a correct construction, purports to authorize the tax here imposed, it is
unconstitutional. Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell and Messrs. Sewall Key and
J. Louis Monarch, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for respondent.
Congress has power, under the Constitution, to impose,
and by the Act of 1918 has imposed, an estate tax measured by the value of property irrevocably transferred by
a decedent in his lifetime, but subject to a reservation to
the decedent of a life estate therein. Y. M. C. A. v.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondent.

281 U. S.

Davis, 264 U. S. 47; Chase Nat'l Bank v. United States,
278 U. S. 327.
The general characteristics of a testamentary disposition, putting aside matters of form, are that the property
go over at the death of the testator, and that during his
lifetime he have the possession, enjoyment, or control.
It has been frequently held that a trust under which the
settlor receives the income of property during life, and
upon his death the corpus is distributed to designated
beneficiaries, involves a transfer to such beneficiaries intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or
after the settlor's death, and is subject to an inheritance
tax. The fact that the corpus of the trust estate is irrevocably vested at the time the trust is crejated is held to
be immaterial, as neither possession nor enjoyment within
the meaning of the law takes effect until the death of the
settlor. McCaughn v. Girard Trust Co., 11 F. (2d) 520;
Reed v. Howbert, 8 F. (2d) 641; Una Libby Kaufman,
5 B. T. A. 31; Matter of Green, r53 N. Y. 223; Crocker v.
Shaw, 174 Mass. 266; Carter v. Bugbee, 91 N.J. L. 438;
Todd's Estate, (No. 2), 237 Pa. 466. See also Tips v.
Bass, 21 F. (2d) 460. This principle is recognized generally. See Gleason & Otis, Inheritance Taxation, 2d ed.,
p. 125 et seq.
Carnill v. McCaughn, 30 F. (2d) 696, is to the contrary.
Cf. also Frew v. Bowers, 12 F. (2d) 625; Boyd v. United
States, 34 F. (2d) 488. Carnill v. McCaughn is now
pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit. In deciding it the District Court held that the
decisions of this Court in Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S.
531; Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339; and
Chase Nat'l Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327, have
modified the doctrine relied upon by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit in the present case and in
McCaughn v. Girard Trust Co., supra.

MAY v. HEINER.
238

241

Argument for Respondent.

The right to enjoy the income is what gives property
value, and the reservation of that right is equivalent to the
continued ownership of the property. The cessation by
death of such a present right to receive income constitutes
a taxable transfer.
The imposition of the tax is not affected by the fact
that the property transferred was subjected by the transferor to a further reservation of a life estate therein in
favor of her husband. If the husband's life interest continued beyond her death, the reservation would continue
during his lifetime. But in either case her death would
relieve the trust from the burden of her reserved life
interest; and in either case the trust was intended to and
did as to the children "take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after" her death.
In any event, we contend that the termination by
death of a contingent life estate will support the tax,
which is one imposed upon "an interest which closed by
reason of death." Y. M. C. A. v. Davis, 264 U. S. 47;
Edwards v. Slocum, 264 U. S. 1. The right of the decedent to receive the income of this trust for life in the
event she survives her husband is a right which may
postpone the enjoyment by the remaindermen of the
economic benefits of the property transferred. The termination of this right by the death of the decedent, freeing the remainder of the possibility of its exercise, is a
transfer within the meaning of the statute, properly
measured by the value of the property thus relieved of the
burden.
This transfer comprised the right to receive the income
which is "that which gives value to property." Pollock
v. Farmers' Loan & T. Co., 158 U. S. 601. Accordingly,
the tax was properly reckoned upon the value of the
corpus of the trust relieved of the burden of the settlor's
life estate, just as the tax in Reinecke v. Northern Trust
98234 *-30--16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Co., supra,was held to be rightly imposed on the transfers
of the corpus of the two trusts.
The taxable transfer was completed upon the settlor's
death in 1920, and the imposition of the tax by the Revenue Act of 1918 involves no question of retroactivity.
Mr. Arthur W. Machen, Jr., filed a brief on behalf of
Safe Deposit & Trust Company of Baltimore, as amicus
curie, by special leave of Court.
Mr. Ward Loveless filed a brief as amicws curiw, by
special leave of Court.
MR.JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By a written instrument dated October 1st, 1917,
Pauline May, wife of Barney May, "transferred, set over
and assigned " to him and others, as trustees, (with power
to change the investments) certain described securities-bonds, notes, corporate stocks, and money-in trust, to
collect the income therefrom and after discharging taxes,
expenses, etc., to pay the balance "to Barney May during his lifetime, and after his decease, to Pauline May
during her lifetime, and after her decease, all the property
in said Trust, in whatever form or shape it may be, shall,
after the expenses of the Trust have been deducted or
paid, be distributed equally among" her four children,
their distributees, or appointees.
Mrs. May died March 25, 1920. Thereafter the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, purporting to proceed
under authority of the Revenue Act of 1918, Title IV,
40 Stat. 1057, 1096, 1097, demanded that her executors
pay additional taxes reckoned upon the value of the property held under the above-described trust instrument.
Having paid the required sum, the executors-petitioners
here-asked that it be refunded. By order of February

MAY v. HEINER.
238

Opinion of the Court.

20, 1924, the Commissioner denied their request. In support of this action he said"This trust was included in decedent's gross estate on
final audit and review on the ground that it was intended
to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after
death. In this case the principal of the trust fund could
not take effect in possession until the death of the decedent. According to the provisions of the trust agreement,
if the decedent's husband died before her, the income
was to be paid to her until her death. The gift of the
principal, therefore, could not take effect during the
decedent's lifetime. This case comes literally within the
terms of the statute, and it has been held by a number of
courts in different States that such a transfer as this
is taxable, these cases being decided under statutes using
the same language as is contained in the Federal Estate
Tax Law."
Seeking to enforce their claim the executors sued the
Collector in the District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania; judgment in his favor was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. The matter is here upon
certiorari.
The record fails clearly to disclose whether or no Mrs.
May survived her husband. Apparently she did not.
But this is not of special importance since the refund
should have been allowed in either event.
The transfer of October 1st, 1917, was not made in
contemplation of death within the legal significance of
those words. It was not testamentary in character and
was beyond recall by the decedent. At the death of Mrs.
May no interest in the property held under the trust
deed passed from her to the living; title thereto had been
definitely fixed by the trust deed. The interest therein
which she possessed immediately prior to her death was
obliterated by that event.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Section 401, Revenue Act of 1918, lays a charge " upon
the transfer of the net estate of every decedent dying
after the passage of this Act," and Section 402 directs
that "the value of the gross estate of the decedent shall
be determined by including the value at the time of his
death of all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated . . . (c) to the extent of any
interest therein of which the decedent has at any time
made a transfer, or with respect to which he has at any
time created a trust, in contemplation of or intended to
take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his
death . . ."
The statute imposes "an excise upon the transfer of
an estate upon death of the owner." Y. M. C. A. v.
Davis, 264 U. S. 47, 50; Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S.
531, 537.
In Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, 347,
348, the estate tax prescribed by the Revenue Act of 1918,
Sec. 402 (c), and carried into the Act of 1921, 42 Stat.
278, as Sec. 402 (c) thereof, was under consideration.
This Court said"In its plan and scope the tax is one imposed on transfers at death or made in contemplation of death and is
measured by the value at death of the interest which is
One may freely give his property to
transferred ....
another by absolute gift without subjecting himself or his
estate to a tax, but we are asked to say that this statute
means that he may not nake a gift inter vivos, equally
absolute and complete, v ithout subjecting it to a tax if
the gift takes the form of a life estate in one with remainder over to another at or after the donor's death.
It would require plain and compelling language to justify
so incongruous a result and we think it is wanting in the
present statute. . ..
"In the light of the general purpose of the statute and
the language of § 401 explicitly imposing the tax on net

LUCAS v. PILLIOD LUMBER CO.
238

Statement of the Case.

estates of decedents, we think it at least doubtful whether
the trusts or interests in a trust intended to be reached
by the phrase in § 402 (c) 'to take effect in possession or
enjoyment at or after his death,' include any others than
those passing from the possession, enjoyment or control

of the donor at his death and so taxable as transfers at
death under § 401. That doubt must be resolved in favor
of the taxpayer.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is erroneous and must be reversed. The cause will be remanded

to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

Reversed.
LUCAS, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. THE PILLIOD LUMBER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 356. Argued January 14, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.
1. The five-year period of limitations prescribed by the Revenue Act
of 1924, § 277 (a) (2), limiting the time within which after the
filing of a return taxes under the Revenue Act of 1918 might be
determined and assessed, does not begin to run from the time of the
filing of a "tentative return," nor from the time of the filing of a
return not verified by the proper corporate officers as required by
§ 239 of the Act of 1918. P. 247.
2. A statute of limitations runs against the Government only when
it assents and upon the conditions prescribed. P. 249.
3. The requirement of § 239 of the Revenue Act of 1918 that returns
of corporations shall be sworn to as specified, is not subject to
waiver. Id.
33 F. (2d) 245, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 544, to review a decree of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a decision of the
Board of Tax Appeals, 7 B. T. A. 591, sustaining an as-

