OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

281 U. S.

ing in the conduct of the United States in respect of life
and disability insurance from which an agreement on its
part to pay interest may reasonably be implied.
This question is not within the principle upon which
interest was allowed in Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
supra. It should be answered in the negative.
"4. May costs be awarded generally against the United
States, upon condition that they be paid from accumulated funds in the hands of the Veterans' Bureau, if any,
available for that purpose? "
The rule is that in the absence of a statute directly authorizing it courts will not give judgment against the
United States for costs or expenses. United States v.
Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1, 20. There is no
statute permitting costs to be awarded against the government in this case.
The question should be answered in the negative.
Question 1 is not answered.
Question 2 is answered: No.
Question 8 is answered: No.
Question 4 is answered: No.
JACKSON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 463.

Argued March 4, 5, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930

A judgment against the United States for accrued instalments under
a war risk policy of insurance against permanent total disability
should not include interest.
34 F. (2d) 241, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U.

S. 549, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of
the District Court, 24 F. (2d) 981, in an action on a war
risk insurance policy.

NEW YORK CENT. R. CO. v. MARCONE.
344

345

Syllabus.

Mr. Thomas Amory Lee, with whom Mr. Turner W.
Bell was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Attorney General Mitchell and
Messrs. J. Frank Staley, W. Clifton Stone, and Erwin N.
Griswold were on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Milo J. Warner and Robert Newbegin filed a
brief as amici curiae, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This action was brought in the United States court
for Kansas to recoyer for permanent totdl disability on
a war risk insurance policy. The court gave plaintiff
judgment for the amount of the accrued installments with
interest on each to date of the judgment, and directed
that the judgment bear interest until paid. 24 F. -(2d)
981. The United States took the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and there contended that plaintiff was
not entitled to interest. The Circuit Court of Appeals
rightly reversed the judgment.. 34 F. (2d) 241.
The case is ruled by this court's decision on the third
question certified in United States v. Worley, announced
this day, ante,-p. 339.
Judgment affirmed.
NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MARCONE, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 212. Argued February 25, 26, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.
1. On the evidence it was f6r the jury to say whether the railroad
company exercised due care in moving an engine in a round-house
at night without more -effective and specific warning than the

