KENTUCKY v. INDIANA.
146

163-

Syllabus

distance of the fields from the common market and the
consequent difference in transportation charges. Whether
or not this is an adequate explanation, it can not be said
that the State, from the standpoint of the Federal Constitution, could'not put the same specific severance tax on
the same sort of oils'used in the same way, merely because
particular producers of such oils might obtain different
prices. There may be many reasons why one owner obtains more in gross return for the' same sort of commodities than another owner, and still other reasons why
the net returns of the one may be more than those of the
other. This Court recently decided that a tax imposed
by Alabama on those selling cigars and cigarettes, which
was based on the "wholesale sales price" was not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment because of an alleged
difference in the wholesale prices paid by dealers who
bought from the manufacturers and by those who did not.
Exchange Drug Company v. Long, decided March 12,
1930, post, p. 693. A classification of theatres for license
fees according to prices of admission was held to be valid,
although some of the theatres charging the higher admission, and paying the higher tax, had the less revenue.
Metropolis Theatre Company v. Chicago, 228 U. S. 61.
We find no ground for holding that the tax in this instance,
violated the Federal Constitution.
Judgment affirmed.
KENTUCKY v. INDIANA
No. 16, Original.

ET AL.

Argued March 3, 4 i930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

Kentucky sued Indiana i4 this Court on a contract between them for
the building, with the consent of Congress, of a bridge across the
OhiG River. Certain individuals, who were citizens, voters and
taxpayers of Indiana and who had brought a suit in an Indiana

court to restrain its officers from performing the contract, upon
the ground that it was unauthorized by the law of Indiana and

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

void, were joined as defendants in Kentucky's bill. The bill prayed
for a decree requiring Indiana to specifically perform the contract
and enjoining the individuals from prosecuting their suit. The individuals contested the jurisdiction of this Court and the validity of
the contract. But Indiana admitted its validity and averred her
desire to perform it, setting up as her only excuse for delay the litigation in the Indiana court and her unwillingness to proceed until
there had been a final adjudication establishing her right to per.form, adding that if this Court should grant the relief prayed
against her by Kentucky, she would proceed immediately to perform the contract. Held:
1. That a controversy between the two States is presented,
within the original jurisdiction of this Court. P. 173.
2. A State sued in this Court by virtue of the original jurisdiction over controversies between States, must be deemed to represent all its citizens, and its -appropriate appearance here by its
proper officers is conclusive upon that point. Id.
3. Citizens, voters and taxpayers of a State, merely..as such and
without showing any further or proper interest, have no separate,
individual right to contest in such a suit the position taken by the
State itself. Id.
4. An individual citizen may be made a party where relief is
properly sought against him in a suit between States, and in such
case he should have opportunity to show the nature of his interest
and why the relief asked against him individually should not be
granted. Id.
5. In the present instance, since the individuals have no interest
with respect to the contract or its performance other than that of
citizens and taxpayers generally of Indiana, and since they were
joined as defendants merely for relief against them incidental to the
relief sought by the plaintiff against the defendant State, they have
no standing to litigate the validity and enforceability of the contract as between the States. P. 174.
6. Inasmuch as a decree of this Court in this suit would bind
the State of Indiana and, on being shown, would bar any inconsistent proceedings in her courts, no sufficient ground appears for
maintaining the bill against the individual defendants, and it should
be dismissed, .a.againstthem. P. 175.
7. If, in accordance with the pleading of each State, the contract
be deemed authorized and valid, the mere pendency of the suit by
citizens to restrain its performance does not constitute a defense.
P. 176.

KENTUCKY v. INDIANA.
* 163

Argument for Kentucky.

8. Where States are before this Court for the determination of
-a controversy between them, the Court must pass upon every ques'tion eisential to such determination, although local legislation and
questions of state authorization may be involved. P. 176.
9..It being conceded by the parties that performance of the contract is a matter of grave interest to the two States and to the,
public, and that delay is causing irreparable injury to Kentucky
not, remediable at law, postponement of decision, merely that this
Court might have the advantage of a decision by the Indiana court
in ,the suit of the Indiana citizens, would not be justified. P. 177.'
10. Upon the record in this case, it is unnecessary for the Court
to search the legislation underlying the contract in order'to discover grounds of defense which the defendant State does not attempt to assert. P. 178.
Bill dismissed as to individual defendants.
Decree for plaintiff against defendant State.
FINAL HEARING, upon the pleadings and an agreed statement of facts, of a suit by Kentucky for specific performance by Indiana of a contract between them to build a
bridge, and for -an, injunction "'to. restrain individual
defendants from prosecuting litigation, in' Indiana imped
ing the performance of the contract by that State.

Mr. Clifford E. Smith, Assistant Attorney General of
Kentucky, with whom Messrs J. W. Cammack, Attorney
General, and M. B, Holifield, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, 'for the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
The individual defendants have no right to induce or
cause the State of Indiana to breach its contract with
Kentucky. It would be an anomaly if the contract entered into by the proper officers pursuant to legislative
authority could be declared invalid by the courts of either
State. If such were the rile, the courts -of one State
might hold the contract to be valid and the courts'of the
other State might hold it to be invalid. Cf. Arkansas v.
Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158.
The prosecution of the suit in Indiana is of little importance, for the reason that the decisions of the courts

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Kentucky.

281 U.S.

of Indiana cannot be binding on Kentucky; but the pendency of. the suit has led Indiana to refuse to perform the
covenants 'of the contract, and the only tribunal that does
or can have jurisdiction of all the parties, and which can
pass upon the validity of the contract and enforce- performance thereof is this' Court. Since this Court has
exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine the contirversy, it has power under § 263 of the Judicial Code to
prevent the further prosecution of the suit in the state
court and to, require the individuals to appear in this
Court and assert their claims here.
The bill presents a" cae " and !' controversy" between
Kentucky and Indiana, and citizens of the State-of Ibdiana, within the original jurisdiction of this Court under
Art. III, § 2, of the Constitution and § 233 of the Judicial
Code. Virginia v. West Virginia, 246 U. S. 565; Kansas
v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. &
S. F. R. Co., 220 U. S. 277; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co.,
127 U. S. 265; Louisianav. Texas, 176 U. S.. 1; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling ,& Belmont Bridge Co., 13 How. 519.
Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346; In re Pacific R.
Co., 32 Fed. 241; Foster & Elam v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253;
Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496; South Dakota v. North
Carolina,192 U. S.286; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264;
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657; Missouri v.
Illinois, 180 U. S.208; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S.46;
In re Ayers, 123 U. S.443.
The contract is fully authorized and supported' by the
statutes of Indiana, Kentucky, and the United States, and
was made pursuant to express consent of Congress.
The contract should be specifically enforced on the
grounds of the public interest, inadequacy of a legal
remedy; multiplicity of suits, and the definiteness of the
contract, as all of the technical and supervisory services
have been provided for by the employment of consulting
engineers.

KENTUCKY v. INDIANA.
163

Argument for Individual Defendants.

The provision of § 265 of the Judicial Code forbidding
injunctions to stay proceedings in state courts must be
construed in connection with § 262 of the Judicial Code;
and if a federal court has obtained jurisdiction of the case,
it can take such action as may be necessary to maintain
its authority and enforce its decree. In the case at bar
the Supreme Court of the United States has original and
exclusive jurisdiction, and the Indiana court has neither
jurisdiction of the parties to the contract involved, nor
of the subject matter.
Mr. Thomas P. Littlepage presented the oral argument,
and Messrs. Fred C. Gause, Walter Pritchard,Frank H.
Hatfield, and Louis L. Roberts, were on the brief, for the
individual defendants.
The bill presents no controversy between two States, or
between a State and another State and citizens of another
State.
The contract contains no limitation date for performance, nor does it provide that time is of the essence, nor
does it fix any dates for the performance of any of its
provisions. The mere fact that Indiana is unwilling to
proceed until the validity of the contract is determined,
does not constitute a breach; and inasmuch as both the
bill and the answer state that Indiana is willing to perform the contract in accordance with its terms, there can
be no controversy between the two States which would
authorize the institution of this suit.
There is no contractual or other obligation between the
individual defendants and Kentucky, nor can there be
any claim by Kentucky that such defendants by instituting their litigation violated any rights of Kentucky.
The relief sought by Kentucky against them is only to
restrain action in the state court in order to obviate the
allegation of Indiana that it is unwilling to proceed With
the contract until such litigation is disposed of.

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Individual Defendants.

281 U. S.

The bill*seeks an injunction to stay proceedings in a
state court of general jurisdiction. Under § 265 of the
Judicial Code, such injunction is prohibited. Slaughter
House Cases, 10 Wall. 273; Moran v. Storges, 154 U. S.
256; Iowa v. Schlimmer, 248 U. S. 115; Sargent v. Hilton,
115 U. S. 348; Essaner v. Kane, 258 U. S. 358.
.The contract was entered into by the State Highwuy
Commission of Indiana without authority and is unenforceable against Indiana.
Kentucky ha a plain, adequate and complete remedy
at law for any breach of the contract by suit in this Court
against Indiana for damages.
In so far as the bill prays for a decree of specific performance, such'-decree would require action by polifical
and legislative authority of another State, and this Court
would not ordinarily undertake such authority; and moreover, a court will not decree specific performance of a
building and construction contract such as that here
involved; and prayer for a decree restraining Indiana
from failing to perform the contract is in effect merely a
prayer for specific performance.
The only effective relief sought by the bill is an injunction to stay proceedings in a local state court attacking
the validity of the contract and the right of officers of the
State of Indiana to disburse funds in carrying out the contract, involving the interpretation of the Indiana law
with respect to which a decision of the Supreme Court of
Indiana would be final.
•Inasmuch as there is now pending in the Indiana state
courts of general jurisdiction a case involving the interpretation of Indiana statutes, as to which the opinion of
the Supreme Court of Indiana would be final, there is now
no occasion for this Court to'attempt to interpret such
statutes.,

KENTUCKY v. INDIANA.
163

169

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Arthur L. Gillion, former Attorney General of
Indiana, James M. Ogden, Attorney General, and Connor
D. Ross, Assistant Attorney General, were on the briefs
for the State of Indiana.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In September, 1928, the Commonwealth of Kentucky
and the State of Indiana, by their respective Highway
Commissions, entered into a contract for the building
of -a bridge across the Ohio River between Evansville,
Indiana, and Henderson, Kentucky. The contract was
approved by the Governor and, as to legality and form,
also by the Attorney General, of each State. The contract recited the acts of Congress and of the state legislatures which were deemed to authorize the ,enterprise.
Acts of Congress of July 11, 1916, 39 Stat. 355; March 2,
1927, 44 Stat. 1337; March 3, 1927, 44 Stat. 1398. Indiana, Act of 1919, Chap. 53; Act of 1927, Chap. 10.
Kentucky, Acts of 1928, chapters 172 and 174. The State
of Indiana immediately began thie performance of the
covenants of the contract on its part and, thereupon,
nine citizens and taxpayers of Indiana brought suit in the
Superior Court of .Marion County in that State to enjoin the members of the Highway Commission and other
officers of Indiana from carrying out the contract upon
the ground that it.was unauthorized and void.
The Commonwealth of Kentucky then asked leave
to file the bill of complaint in this suit against the State
of Indiana and the individuals who were plaintiffs in the
suit in the state court, seeking to restrain the breach
of the contract and the prosecution of that suit, and for
specific performance. In its return to the order to show

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

cause why this leave should not be granted, the State of
Indiana said that it had "no cause to show "; that the
State intended ultimately to perform the contract, if
performance were permitted or ordered by the courts in
which the, litigation over the contract was pending, but
that it did not intend to do so until after that litigation
had finally been disposed of favorably to its performance;
that the State of Indiana had entered into the contract
by virtup of authority of its own statutes and of the Act
of Congress of March 2, 1927; that as there was no court
having complete- jurisdiction over the parties and subject matter, other than this Court, the State yielded to
the jurisdiction of this Court, and that it was in the public interest that an early adjudication be had which would
be final and binding upon all parties interested.
Leave being granted, the bill of complaint herein was
filed. It set forth the contract and the pertinent statutes,
the pendency of the Indiana suit (to which the Commonwealth of Kentucky was not, and could not be made, a
party), that the delay in the construction of the bridge
would cause irreparable injury to the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, and that the complainant had no adequate
remedy other than through this suit. The complaint
further alleged that the northern approach to the bridge
would rest on and extend over Indiana- soil and the
southern approach would be on Kentucky soil; that the
State of Indiana' as well as .the Commonwealth of Kentucky had full authority to enter into the contract under
the state statutes cited, and that the contract was also authorized by the acts of Congress to which reference was
made. The complaint was later amnended to correct an
inaccurate citation.
Separate answers were filed by the State of Indiana
and by the individual defendants. The answer of the
State of Indiana admitted that the allegations of the complaint were true. The answer then averred:

KENTUCKY v. INDIANA.
163

Opinion of the Court.

"The only excuse which the State of Indiana offers for
failure to perform the contract set out in plaintiff's complaint is the litigation, mentioned in the complaint, instituted by her above-named co-defendants against the
officers of the State of Indiana whose function it is to
perform said contract. The resulting delay in performance of said contract is in breach of its terms, which contemplate immediate and continued performance."
After stating that as the validity of the contract had
been drawn in question in the litigation in the state court,
the State did not feel warranted in proceeding until there
was a final adjudication establishing its right to perform,
the answer added:
"The State of Indiana believes said contract is valid.
If this honorable court shall grant the relief prayed
against Indiana by plaintiff Commonwealth of Kentucky
in either of its paragraphs of complaint, the State of
Indiana will thereupon immediately- proceed with the
performance of said contract and will continue such performance until the objects of said contract shall have
been fully attained as contemplated by the terms thereof."
The individual defendants filed an answer and, at the
same time, moved to dismiss the complaint upon the
ground that there was no controversy between the two
States or between the Commonwealth of Kentucky and
the individual defendants; that under Section 265 of the
Judicial Code no injunction should be granted staying
proceedings in the suit in the state court; that the proceedings involved the interpretation of the statutes and
laws of Indiana; that the contract was not binding on
the State of Indiana, being made without authority of
law; and that the Commonwealth of Kentucky had an
adequate remedy at law. The answer of the individual
defendants admitted the making of the contract but denied its validity. The parties, pursuant to a stipulation,

172

OCTOBER TERM,- 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

moved to submit the case upon the pleadings and briefs,
including the separate motion of the individual defendants to dismiss. The motion to submit was denied, the
motion to dismiss was postponed, and the case was assigned for oral argument. Later, the Commonwealth of
Kentucky moved tQ strike out -the answers and for a
decree pro confesso.
After hearing argument, the court overruled the motion
to dismiss in so far as it questioned the jurisdiction of the
court to entertain the bill of complaint and to proceed
to a hearing and determination of the merits of the controversy, and directed that all other questions sought to
be presented by that motion be reserved .for further consideration at the hearing upon the merits.
A statement of facts, to which the complainant, the
defendant State and the individual defendants agreed,
was then filed. It admitted the allegations of the complaint with respect to the enactment of the various statutes mentioned and the making of the contract. It set
forth that the State of Indiana by its Highway Commission and proper officers were." now ready and anxious to
perform said contract," but would not do so until there
was a final adjudication by the Supreme Court of Indiana
or by this Court; that it was of great interest and concern to both States that the litigation should be determined as early as possible, consistently with the convenience of the Court, that the failiire of the State of
Indiana promptly to perform the covenants of the contract on its part had caused and will cause the Commonwealth of Kentucky injury and damage for which no adequate remedy at law exists; and that the Commonwealth
of Kentucky was, and had been, " ready, able and willing"' to perform the covenants of the contract on its part.
It was also stated that all the allegations made by the
State of Indiana in its answer were true. There was fur-

KENTUCKY v. INDIANA.
163

Opinion of the Court.

ther agreement to the effect that the blue prints and
drawings filed herein correctly showed the location approved for the bridge by both States, the boundary line
between the States, the location of the spans, bridge
structure and approaches, the high water lines and the
topography at the site of the bridge. It was agreed that
the individual defendants were citizens, voters and taxpayers of Indiana and the operators of automobiles on
which they paid license fees to that State. Pursuant to
a stipulation, the Highway Commission of Indiana filed
a statement showing the appropriations made by that
State bearing upon the construction of the bridge.
A motion to set the cause for hearing upon the pleadings and the agreed statement of facts was granted, and
the cause has been heard.
The question of the jurisdiction of this Court was determined on the hearing of the motion to dismiss. The
State of Indiana, while desiring to perform its contract,
is not going on with its performance because of a suit
brought by its citizens in its own court. There is thus a
controversy between the States, although a limited one.
A State suing, or sued, in this Court, by virtue of the
original jurisdiction over controversies between States',
must be deemed to represent all its citizens. The appropriate appearance here of a State by its proper officers,
either as complainant or defendant, is conclisive upon
this point. Citizens, voters and taxpayers, merely as
such, of either State, without a showing of any further
and proper interest, have no separate individual right
to contest in such a suit the position, taken by- the State
itself. Otherwise, all the citizens of both States, as one.
citizen, voter and taxpayer has as much right as another
in this respect, would be entitled to be heard. An individual citizen may be made a party where relief is properly
sought as against him, and in such case he should have

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

suitable opportunity to show the nature of his interest
and why the relief asked against him individually should
not be granted.
If the controversy within the original jurisdiction of
this Court is over a contract alleged to have been made
between two States, to which an individual defendant is
not a party, it is manifest that such an individual defendant, merely as a citizen, voter and taxpayer of the
defendant State, is not entitled to enter upon a separate
contest in relation to the merits of the controversy so far
as it relates to the making of the contract by the two
States and the obligations that the contract imposes upon
his State, and does not relate to any separate and proper
interest of his own. The fact that an individual citizen
in such a case is made a party defendant in order that
the complainant may obtain some pa: ucular relief against
him, which is .merely incidental to the complete relief
to which the complainant would be entitled if it should
prevail as against the defendant State, gives suchan
individual defendant no standing to litigate on his own
behalf the merits of a controversy which, properly viewed,
lies solely between the States, but only to contest the
propriety of the particular relief sought against him in
case the decision on the merits is against his State. This
gives an individual defendant in such a suit between
States full opportunity to litigate the only question which
concerns him individually as distinguished from the questions which concern him only in common with all the
citizens of his State.
In the pre~ent instance, there is no showing that the
individual defendants have any interest whatever with
respect to the contract and its performance other than
that of the citizens and taxpayers, generally, of Indiana,
an interest which that State in this suit fully represents.
The individual defendants have presented no. defense

KENTUCKY v. INDIANA.
163

175

Opinion of the Court.

other than that which they seek to make on behalf of
.their State with respect to the making of the contract
by that State and the obligations thereby imposed upon.
it. The particular relief asked against them is sought
only as an incident to the relief which the Commonwealth
of Kentucky seeks against the State of Indiana. The
individual defendants were made parties solely for the.
purpose of obtaining an injunction against them restraining the prosecution of the suit in the state court. Such
an injunction is not needed, as a decree in this suit would
bind the State of Indiana and on being shown would bar
any inconsistent proceedings in .the courts of that State.
As no sufficient ground, appears for maintaining the bill
of complaint against the individual defendants, it should
be dismissed as against them.
The question, then, is as to the case made by the Commonwealth .of Kentucky against the State of Indiana.
By admitting in its answer that the allegations of thecomplaint are true, the State of Indiana admits the making of the' contract and the authority of its officers to
make it under: the applicable legislation. Not only are
the allegations of fact in the complaint coiceded to be
true but there is also no dispute as to the legal import
of these facts. Instead of presenting any legal ground
for contesting the validity of the contract, the State of
Indiana expressly asserts in its answer that it believes
the contract is valid. There is no suggestion of any inadvertence in the answer. On the contrary it is the deliberate statement of the position of the State of Indiana
in the light of the litigation in the state court and of the
questions there sought to be raised. The only suggestion
of a defense for its failure to perform the contract, that
is, what the State of Indiana in its answer characterizes
as its "only excuse," is the pendency of this litigation
in the state court The State of Indiana avers that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

does not feel warranted in proceeding in the absence of
a final determination establishing its right to proceed
under the contract.
It is manifest that if, in accordance with the pleading,
of each State, the contract for the building of the bridge
is deemed to be authorized and valid, the mere pendency
of a suit brought by citizens to restrain performance does
not constitute a defense. In that aspect, the question
would be, not as to a defense on the merits, but whether.
this Court should withhold a final determination merely
because of the fact that such a suit is pending. This question raises important considerations. It can not be gainsaid that in a controversy with respect to a contract between States, as to which the original jurisdiction of this
Court is invoked, this Court has the authority and duty to
determine for itself all questions t&' pertain to the obligations of the contract alleged. The fact that the solution of these questions may involve the determination of
the effect of the local legislation of either State, as well
as of acts of Congress, which are said to authorize the
contract, in no way affects the duty of this Court to act
as the final, constitutional arbiter in deciding the questions properly presented. It has frequently been held
that when a question is suitably raised whether the law
of a State has impaired the obligation of a contract, in
violation of the constitutional provision, this Court must
determine for itself whether a contract exists, what are
its obligations, and whether they have been impaired by
the legislation of the State. While this Court always
examines with appropriate respect the decisions of state
courts bearing upon such questions, such decisions do not
detract from the responsibility of this Court in reaching
its own conclusions as to the contract, its obligations and
impairment, for otherwise the constitutional guaranty
could not properly be enforced. Larson v. South Dakota,
278 U. S. 429, 433, and cases there cited. Where the

KENTUCKY v. INDIANA.
163

Opinion of the Court.

States themselves are before this Court for the determination of a controversy between them, neither can deter-

mine their rights inter sese, and this Court. must pass
upon every question essential to such a determination,

although local legislation and questions of state authorization may be involved. Virginia v. Vest Virginia, 11
Wall. 39, 56; 220 U. S. 1, 28. A decision in the present
instance by the state court would not determine the controversy here.
It is none the less true that this Court might await such
a decision, in order that it might have the advantage of
the views of the state court, if sufficient grounds appeared
for delaying final action. The question is as to the
existence of such grounds in this case. The gravity of
the situation can not be ignored. The injury to the Commonwealth of Kerltucky by the delay in the performance
of the contract by the State of Indiana is definitely al-

leged and expressly admitted. That injury is concededly
irreparable-without adequate remedy at law. It is specifically set forth in the agreed statement of facts that
"it is of great interest and concern to the States of Indiana and Kentucky and the United States and the citizens thereof generally who will travel said Route 41 " (the
highway through the States which will be made continuous by the construction of the bridge) " to have as early
determination of this litigation as is possible." In these
circumstances there would appear to be no adequate
ground for withholding the determination of this suit
because of objections raised by individuals, merely in
their capacity as citizens, voters and taxpayers of Indiana, objections which the State itself declines to sponsor.
It would be a serious matter, where a State has entered into a contract with another State, the validity of
the contract not being questioned by either State, if
individual citizens could delay the prompt performance
which was admitte.y important, not only to the comf98234'-30

j2

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

plainant State but to the people of both States, merely
by bringing a suit. It is not difficult to institute suits,
and contracts between States, of increasing importance
as interstate interests grow in complexity, would be at
the mercy of individuals, if the action of the latter, without more, unsupported by any proper averments on the
part of the State itself questioning its obligations, should
lead this Court to stay its hand in giving the relief to
which the complainant State would otherwise be entitled
and of which it stood seriously in need.
On such a record as we have in this case, it is unnecessary for the Court to search the legislation underlying the contract in order to discover grounds of
defense which the defendant State does not attempt to
assert. The State of Indiana concludes its answer by
saying that if a decree goes against it as prayed for, the
State will at once proceed with the performance of the
contract and fully complete that performance according
to its terms.
We conclude that the controversy between the States
is within the original jurisdiction of this Court; that the
defendant State has shown no adequate defense to this
suit; that nothing appears which would justify delay in
rendering a decree; and that the Commonwealth of Kentucky is entitled to the relief sought against the State
of Indiana.
The complainant and the defendant State will be accorded twenty days within which to submit a form of
decree to carry these conclusions into effect. Costs 'will
be divided equally between the States.
Dismissed as to individual defendants.
Decree for complainant against the defendant
State.

