84

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioner.

281 U.S.

EARLY, RECEIVER, v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
OF RICHMOND.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 226.' Argued February 26, 27, 1930.-Decided March 12, 1930.
A circular of a federal reserve bank, authorized by law, provided that
.when checks were received by the reserve bank for collection and
forwarded to the member bank on which they were drawn, the
drawee should remit or. provide funds to meet them within an
agreed transit time, failing which the amount should be chargeable
against the reserve account of the drawee in the reserve bank;
but that the reserve bank reserved the right to charge checks-so
forwarded against the drawee's reserve account at any time when
in any particular case it deemed it necessary to do so. Held:
1. That the last provision, consented to by the drawee bank,
created a power, in the interest and for the security of. the owners
of such checks, which was not revoked by insolvency of the drawee
bank, and that upon learning of such insolvency it became the duty
of the reserve bank, even though the transit time had not expired,
to charge such checks against the reserve account of the drawee.
P. 89.
2. This lien was not affected by the fact that the drawee bank
had retaiped the right to draw drafts on the reserve. P. 90.
30 F. (2d) 198, affirmed.

280 U. S. 540, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversing in part a judgment of
the District Court recovered by the Receiver in a suit
against the Reserve Bank.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. George P. Barse and R. E. Whiting, with whom
Mr. F. G. Awalt was on the brief, for petitioner.
There was neither agreement of the parties, nor understanding implied from the terms of collection, to treat the
reserve deposit balance either as equitably assigned or as
a specified fund pledged to the payment of the accepted
checks,

EARLY v. FED. RESERVE BANK.
84

Argument for Petitioner.

All that the parties agreed was that the obligations incurred by the Lake City Bank by the acceptance of the
checks should be paid by specified dates, which dates
were shown in the cash letters in which the checks were
sent. See National City Bank v., Hotchkiss, 231 U. S.
50. It was left to the drawee bank to provide funds for
payment in the manner most convenient to itself, either
by special remittance for the particular purpose, or by
providing through general remittances for a sufficient balance in the reserve account, available at the expiration of
the transit period to the Reserve Bank, to meet the cash
letters. Either method served the same end-to pay a
debt which by agreement of the parties was to be paid at
Richmond on a fixed day.
Here, as in Commercial Nation'4 Bank v. Armstrong,
148 U. S. 50, the owners of the checks became general
creditors of the drawee when their checks were accepted
and canceled. The terms upon which the checks were
handled provided for a three day transit period. How
the funds might be provided-whether from existing reserve balances, prospective reserve .balances, shipments
of currency, drafts upon other depositories, or otherwisewas not the concern of the owners of the checks, and no
right was given them to demand that the reserve balances
of the drawee bank should not be drawn upon for other
purposes.
Customers of the Reserve Bank sending checks to it for
collection are charged with notice of the provisions in
the circular, permitting the drawee bank to pay for the
checks otherwise than by appropriation of its reserve balance. They are also charged with notice of the provisions of § 19 of the Federal Reserve Act permitting the
reserve accounts of member banks to be checked against
or withdrawn. It is also to be noted that the customer
banks assume the risk of failure and suspension of the
drawee bank and agree that in such event checks for

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioner..

281 U. S.

which remittance is not made -may be charged back to
their accounts by the Reserve Bank.
The right of the Lake City Bank to draw upon the
reserve at will is clearly inconsistent with any theory of
equitable charge or lien arising against the deposit. Distinguishing Fourth Street Bank v. Yardley, 165 U. S. 634.
An agreement to remit for collection items, even where
the remittance is to be made by a draft or a charge against
a particular deposit account, does not constitute an assignment or create an equitable charge against the deposit.
Christmas v. Russell, 14 Wall. 69.
An agreement to pay out of a particular fund, however
clear i s terms, is not an equitable assignment, if the assignor retains any control over the fund. Christmas v.
Russell, supra,84; Meyer v. DelawareR. Constr. Co., 100
U.. S. 457; Williams v. Everett, 14 East. 582, cited in Tiernan v. Jackson, 5 Pet. 580, 600; Smedley v. Speckman,
157 Fed. 815, 819.
The principles governing the right of equitable lien
likewise impose a duty on the part of the fundholder to
devote the pledged fund to the purpose intended. Interborough Consolidated Corp. case, 288 Fed. 334 (certiorari
denied, Porges v. Sheffield, 262 U. S. 752); Woodhouse v.
Crandall, 197 Ill. 104, 109; Pomeroy, Eq. Jur. (4th ed.)
§ 1235; United States v. Butterworth-Judson Corp., 267
U. S. 387. Distinguishing cases cited by the court below.
The exercise of the clearing-house functions of the Reserve Bank was not based on the faith of the reserve
balance of the member bank.
Under the terms of § 16 of the Federal Reserve Act,
the exercise of clearing-house functions was permissive
but not mandatory. U. S. C. Title 12, § 248 (m). This
was seemingly considered a minor part of the reserve system activities. There is no indication from any of the
provisions of the Act that clearing-house functions were

EARLY v. FED. RESERVE BANK.
84

Counsel for Parties.

even remotely in mind so far as the statutory provision
for reserve balances was concerned.
It seems clear that the customers of the Reserve Bank
do not send items to it on the faith of the reserve balance
of the drawee bank and that they rely entirely upon the
unsecured obligation of the drawee to provide available
funds at the expiration of the transit period.
The Reserve Bank has no right to apply the deposit
by way of set-off. See National Bank v. Insurance Co.,
104 U. S.54, 71; Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S.499.
The authority of the Reserve Bank to withdraw funds
from the reserve account of its member bank was revoked by the insolvency of the member bank. First
National Bank of Chicago v. Selden, 120 Fed. 212; Scott
v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499, 507; Edison Electric Illuminating Co. v. Tibbetts, 241 Fed. 468.
The provision in Circular No. 143 giving the Reserve
Bank the right to charge the Lake City Bank's reserve
account " at any time when in any particular case we
deem it necessary to do so," is on exactly the same fundamental basis as the authority to charge at the expiration
of the transit period, the only difference being as to the
point in time when such authority might have been executed. Its revocation resulted from the suspension of the
Lake City Bank, just as the revocation of the authority
to charge at the expiration of the transit period. Distinguishing McDonald v. Chemical National Bank, 174
U. S.610.
The lack of agency between the Lake City Bank and
the Reserve Bank does not prevent the application of the
revocation of authority doctrine.
Equitable Trust Co. v. FirstNational Banc of Trinidad,
275 U. S. 359, is authority against the position of the
Reserve Bank.
Mr. M. G. Wallace for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Messrs. F. G. Awalt and George P. Barse, by special
leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae, on behalf of
J. W. Pole, Comptroller of the Currency.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the receiver of a national bank
in South Carolina, a member of the Federal Reserve System, to recover the reserve balance of that bank in the
hands of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond at the
end of business on October 9, 1926, when the South Carolina Bank, being insolvent, closed its doors. Other matters tried below are not in question here. The Richmond
Bank claims the right to retain the balance on the following facts. - As authorized by agreement, on October 7 it
forwarded to the South Carolina Bank checks drawn upon
the latter which the Richmond Bank had received for
collection. These checks were received the next day,
marked paid and charged to the accounts of the drawers.
Other checks were forwarded on October 8 and marked
paid and charged to the drawers by the South Carolina
Bank on October 9. After notice of the failure the Richmond Bank on October 11 charged the account of the
South Carolina Bank with the amount of the checks forwarded on October 7 and the next day charged what was
left with the amount sent on October 8.
The relations between the two Banks were fixed by the
following terms of a circular of the Richmond Bank which
was authorized by law and agreed to by 'the other.
"Checks received by us drawn on our member banks will
be forwarded in cash letters direct to such banks and each
member bank will be required either to remit therefor in
immediately available funds or to provide funds available
to us to meet such cash letters within the agreed transit
time to and from the member bank. Therefore, the

EARLY v. FED. RESERVE BANK.
84

Opinion of the Court.

amount of any cash letter to a member bank is chargeable against available funds in the reserve account of such
member at the expiration of such transit time, which date
will be shown on each cash letter. The right is reserved,
however, to charge a cash letter to the reserve account of
a member bank at any time when in any particular case
we deem it necessary to do so." The transit time or time
allowed for collection in this case was three days, and had
not expired when the South Carolina Bank closed its
doors. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the claim
of the Richmond Bank. 3O F. (2d) 198. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
The petitioner contends that his bank had until the
end of the transit time to remit or to provide funds to
meet the cash letters, that until then the Richmond Bank
had a bare power of attorney to charge the reserve fund,
and that the power was revoked by the insolvency of the
petitioner's bank. He denies that the reserve fund was
subject to any lien until that date, and calls attention to
the right of his bank to draw checks against that fund
reserved to it by the law. Code, Tit. 12, § 464.
All parties must be taken to have dealt upon the terms
of the circular that we have quoted. The right of the
South Carolina Bank to draw against its reserve account
was subject to the right of the Richmond Bank that held
the account to charge it with a cash letter whenever
deemed necessary. This power is reserved more obviously in the interest of the depositors of the checks than
of the Richmond Bank. The latter received the checks
for collection with responsibility only for its own negligence. The depositor took the chance of finding that his
only debtor was a distant bank in place of the maker of
the check discharged (FederalReserve Bank of Richmond
v. Malloy, 264 U. S. 160, 166,)-a bank that might be
insolvent, as this one was. His situation was the one that

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllablis.

281 U. S.

most needed the power to charge the reserve. The language of the circular pointed to the depositor's interestfor the cash letter that was to be charged was merely
another name for the checks that the letter contained.
The existence of the power must be assumed to have been
one of the considerations inducing the owner of the check
to give the Richmond Bank authority to send it directly
to the drawee. All parties must be taken to have understood that in the event that happened it was the duty of
the Richmond Bank when it knew the facts to charge the
reserve account of the South Carolina Bank, and if so the
account should be charged. There was no overt act necessary in addition to what the parties had agreed upon.
The case of Equitable Trust Co. v. First National Bavk
of Trinidad,275 U. S. 359, cited by the petitioner, has no
application because there in the opinion of the Court
there was no attempt to create a lien upon an identified
fund, whereas here the reserve was identified. The fact
that the fund might be diminished by drafts of the South
Carolina Bank does not invalidate the lien, any more than
the right of a depositor to draw against his account invalidates a banker's lien, not to speak of the paramount
power of the Richmond Bank mentioned above.
Judgment affirmed.
GUNNING v. COOLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 31.

Argued November 26, 1929.-Decided March 12, 1930.

1. A mere scintilla of evidence is not enough to require the submission
of an issue to the jury in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia. P. 94.
2. Upon a motion for a peremptory instruction the question is not
whether there is literally no evidence, but whether there is any

