OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
281 U. S.

Syllabus.

set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
as also orders of the Federal Trade Commission, makes
it apparent that the jurisdiction exercised in those suits
is not administrative, but strictly judicial, and therefore
quite unlike the jurisdiction exercised on appeals from
the Radio Commission.
Of course the action of the Court of Appeals in assessing
the costs against the commission did not alter the nature
of the proceeding.
Our conclusion is that the proceeding in that court was
not a case or coritroversy in the sense of the judiciary
article, but was an administrative proceeding, and therefore that the decision therein is not reviewable by this
Court.
Writ of certioraridismissed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

did not participate in the

consideration or decision of this case.

GRUBB v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF
OHIO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 491.

Motion to Dismiss or Affirm submitted January 27, 1930.Decided May 19, 1930.

1. A judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio, affirmed, upon review
under Gen. Code, §§ 544, 545, an order of the StAte Public Utilitie,
Commission, which, in granting to the appellant a license to operate
a line of passenger motor buses within the State, forbade his adding
to the route a loop to a point in an adjacent State near the state
line and back. Held conclusive as res judicata in a suit in the
federal court, upon the questions whether the prohibition in the
order violated rights of the appellant under the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution and under the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 475.

GRUBB v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM.
Counsel for Parties.

470

2. The state and federal courts have concurrent jurisdiction over
civil suits arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, including the commerce clause, save in exceptional instances
where the jurisdiction has been restricted by Congress to the federal
courts. P. 475.
3. Where control over specific property is not involved, the fact, that
suit is begun first in a federal court does not preclude a state court
from entertaining a suit involving the same subject and parties.
The final judgment first rendered in either case becomes conclusive
in the other as res judicata. P. 476.
4. In determining the effect of a judgment of a state court as an
estoppel in the federal court, the state court's decision as to the
,jurisdiction intended to be conferred on it by state statutes is conclusive in the District Court and in this Court on appeal. P. 477.
5. A judgment of a state court affirming an order of a state commission over an objection distinctly raised undor the Constitution
is necessarily an adjudication of the federal question, although that
question be not mentioned by the court in itq opinion. Id.
6. Upon a judicial review attacking the validity of an order of an
administrative body, the party attacking must present every avail* able ground of which he-has knowledge. He is not at liberty to
prosecute his right by piecemeal. P. 478.
7. A judgment upon the merits in one suit is res judicata in another
where the parties and subject matter are the same, not only as
respects matters actually presented to sustain or defeat the right
asserted, but also as respects any other available matter which
might have been presented to that end. P. 479.
33 F. (2d) 323, affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing the bill in a suit to enjoin; in part, an
order of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio defining
the appellant's right to operate a line of passenger buses.
APPEAL

Messrs. John F. Carlisle, Frank M. Raymund, and
Andrew Wilson were on the brief for appellant.
Messrs. Gilbert Bettman, Attorney General of Ohio,
T. J. Herbert, Assistant Attorney General, A. R. Johnson,
and D. H. Armstrong were on the brief for appellees.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

281 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The appellant applied to the Public Utilities Commission of Qhio for a certificate to operate, solely in interstate
commerce, a line of passenger motor buses over certain
public highways in that State as part of an intended route
between Columbus, Ohio, and Huntington, West Virginia. In his application he described the route as including a short loop at Portsmouth, Ohio, whereby the
buses on reaching that point would cross the Ohio River
to a village at the Kentucky end of the interstate bridge
and then recross to Portsmouth before proceeding towards
their destination. Several carriers likely to be affected if
the application was granted intervened and filed protests.
A hearing was had, after which the Commission made an
order granting the requested certificate, but excluding the
loop at Portsmouth from the intended route-the exclusion being put in the form of an express prohibition,' and
the commission explaining that in its opinion the loop
was intended to be merely a device to enable the appellant to carry passengers between Portsmouth and other
points in Ohio and, by giving that service the appearance
of an interstate service, to avoid compliance with the laws
of that State relating to intrastate motor transportation.
A rehearing was sought by the appellant because the loop
at Portsmouth was excluded, and by the protestants because the certificate was granted; but the Commission
adhered to its order.
The appellant then brought a suit in equity against the
Commission in the District Court of the United States-for
I"Ordered that the said applicant be, and hereby he is, prohibited
from incorporating within the regular route, upon which he will herein
be granted a certificate to operate within the State ef Ohio, any movement which shall provide for the cross'-.g and recrossing of the Ohio
River at Portsmouth, Ohio."

GRUBB v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM.
470

Opinion of the Court.

the Southern District of Ohio to restrain and prevent the
enforcement of so much of the order as excluded from the
intended route the'loop at Portsmouth. The protestants
and some police officers who might be called on to assist
in enforcing the order were made codefendants with the
Commission. The parties were all citizens of Ohio, and
the sole ground advanced for invoking the jurisdiction
of the -federal court was that the suit was one arising
under the Constitution of the United States and involving more than three thousand dollars. See sections 41 (1)
and 380, Title 28, U. S. C.
In the bill so much of the order as excluded the loop at
Portsmouth was assailed as an attempted restriction and
regulation of interstate commerce by a state agency contrary to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States and to section 614-101 of the General Code
of Ohio, and as denying to the appellant rights, privileges
and immunities guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. The prayer was for both an interlocutory and a
permanent injunction, to be granted conformably to section 380, Title 28, U. S. C.
Three judges were called pursuant to that section to
act in the suit; an interlocutory injuncti6n was granted;
and upon the final hearing there was a decree dissolving
the injunction and dismissing the bill upon the ground
that in a litigation between the same parties, had in the
Supreme Court of Ohio while the suit in -the District
Court was pending, the Commission's order had been
adjudged valid, and that the appellant was barred and
estopped by that adjudication from further litigating the
same matter. 33 F. (2d) 323. After the decree was
entered, the appellant sought and the District Court
allowed a direct appeal to this Court under sections 345
and 380, Title 28, U. S. C.
The appellees now have interposed a motion, under
section 4 of rule 7 of the Rules of this Court, that the

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

decree be affirmed without awaiting oral argument upon
the ground that the objections taken to the decree are so
unsubstantial as not to admit of debate; and the parties
have submitted full briefs in this connection.
The laws of Ohio make provision for a review of final
orders of the Commission by the Supreme Court of the
State-a judicial review culminating in a judgment.
Gen. Code, § § 544, 545; Hocking Valley Ry. Co. v. Public
Utilities Commission, 92 0. St. 9, 14; Hocking Valley Ry.
Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 100 0. St. 321, 323;
Ohio Utilities Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 267
U. S. 359.
Shortly after the Commission denied their respective
applications for a rehearing the appellant and the protestants by two distinct petitions sought and obtained a
review of the Commission's order by the Supreme Court
of the State-the appellant complaining of the exclusion
of the loop at Portsmouth, and the protestants of the
granting of the certificate. The Commission was made
a party defendant to both petitions, and the petitions
were consolidated and heard together. Thus the court
had before it the entire order, the Commission, the appellant and the protestants. In that court the appellant
charged in his petition that so much of the order as excluded the loop from the intended route was unlawful
and should be reversed upon the grounds, among others,
that it was not sustained by the evidence, denied to the
appellant rights, privileges and immunities guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment, was in conflict with the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
and was in violation of section 614-101 of the General
Code of Ohio. The grounds on which the protestants
challenged the order 'are only obscurely indicated in
the present record-possibly because having no bearing
here.

GRUBB v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM.
470

Opinion of the Court.

After a hearing in which all of the parties participated
the state court rendered a judgment sustaining and affirming the Commission's order in its entirety. 119 0. S. 264.
No effort was made to have that judgment reviewed by
this Court, and after the three months allotted for applying for such a review had elapsed, the defendants in the
suit in the District Court, by leave of that court, interposed answers setting up the judgment as a bar to the
further prosecution of the suit. A hearing upon this plea
resulted in the decree now under review, which sustained
the plea and dismissed .the bill.
The case in the state court was so far identical with the
suit in the federal court as respects subject matter and
parties that there can be no doubt that the judgment in
the former, unless invalidated by some jurisdictional infirmity, operated to bar the further prosecution of the
latter. That the state court had jurisdiction of the parties is plain and not questioned. But the appellant does
question that it had jurisdiction of the subject matterand this although at the outset he treated that jurisdiction as subsisting and invoked its exercise. Of course, he
is entitled to raise this question notwithstanding his prior
inconsistent attitude, for jurisdiction of the subject matter must arise by law and not by mere consent. We
turn therefore to the grounds on which that jurisdiction
is questioned.
The appellant relies on the commerce clause of the Constitution as in some way operating to commit to the
federal courts and to withhold from the state courts. jurisdiction of all suits relating to the regulation or attempted
regulation of interstate commerce. This view of that
clause is quite inadmissible. It has no support in any
quarter, is at variance with the actual practice in this
class of litigation, Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Western

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Union Telegraph Co. v. Public Service Commission, 247
U. S. 105; Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 225 N. Y. 397; s. c. 252 U. S. 23; Peoples Gas
Co. v. Public Service Commission, 270 U. S. 550; Public
Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Co., 273 U. S. 83; Murray v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 62 Fed. 24, 42-43;
and is in conflict with the doctrine often sustained by this
Court that the state and federal courts have concurrent
jurisdiction of suits of a civil nature arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, save in exceptional instances where the jurisdiction has been restricted
by Congress to the federal courts. Ciaflin v. Houseman,
93 U. S. 130, 136-137; Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624,
635-637; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1,
56-57; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Bombolis,
241 U. S. 211, 221-223. There is no such restriction which
is applicable here.
It next is said that the suit in the federal court was
begun before resort was had to the state court, and therefore that the jurisdiction of the federal court was exclusive and precluded action in the state court. In this the
appellant is invoking a rule which is applicable to suits
dealing with specific property and involving actual or
potential control over the same, where necessarily the
court (whether federal or state) first obtaining. juriidiction of the res must hold it to the exclusion of another.
Here the litigation was not of that class, but was of such
a nature that it could proceed in both courts, in virtue
of their concurrent jurisdiction, until there was a final
judgment in one, Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260
U. S. 226, when that judgment would become conclusive
in the other as res judicata. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611, 616; Insurance Co.
v. Harris,97 U. S. 331, 336.
By way of further questioning the state court's jurisdiction, it is said that the state statutes, rightly under-

GRUBB v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM.
470

Opinion of the Court.

stood, do not invest that court with power to review
orders of the Commission relating to interstate commerce,
but only such as relate to other subjects, sections 502,
614-89, 614-101 of the Ohio General Code being cited.
And by way of questioning that court's power to render
the judgment in question, it is said that the state statute,
section 544, General Code, although distinctly empowering the court to reverse, vacate or modify orders of the
Commission found unlawfhl or unreasonable, contains no
provision for an affirmance of those not so found. The
powers of the state court in these particulars are questions of local law only. That court resolved them against
the present contentions, for it both reviewed and affirmed
the order. And that resolution is in accord with its earlier
and later rulings. Cannon Ball Transportation Co. v.
Public Utilities Commission, 113 0. S. 565; DetroitCincinnati C6ach Line, Inc. v. Public Utilities Commission, 119 0. S. 324; Wheeling Traction Co. v. Public
Utilities Commission, 119 0. S. 481. Plainly its solution
of these questions of local law must be accepted as controlling in this Court, as they were in the District Court.
Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, 281; Gasquet
v. Lapeyre, 242 U. S. 367, 369; Iowa Central Ry. Co. v.
Iowa, 160 U. S. 389, 393.
In the opinion of the state court there is no express
mention of the constitutional grounds on which the appellant asked a reversal of the order excluding the loop
over the Ohio River at Portsmouth; and from this it is
argued that the constitutional validity of the order was
not determined, and therefore as to that matter the judgment is not res judicata. But the argument is not sound.
The question of the constitutional validity of the order
was distinctly presented by the appellant's petition and
necessarily was resolved against him by the judgment
affirming the order. Omitting to mention that question
in the opinion did not eliminate it from the case or

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

make the judgment of affirmance any the less an adjudication of it. But while the opinion makes no specific
reference to the attack on the constitutional validity of
the order, it leaves no doubt that the court regarded that
and other objections to the order as untenable, and on that
basis affirmed it; for in the opinion the court says, "The
finding of fact by the commission as to the intent and
purpose of Grubb in seeking this side loop from Portsmouth to South Portsmouth and return was amply sustained by the records of the commission, and we see no
error in the action of the commission denying that part
of the application."
In his bill the appellant assails the validity of the order
upon one ground not brought to the attention of the state
curt-a ground arising out of the granting to another
interstate motor line of a certificate to operate buses over
a route including the loop at Portsmouth; and he insists
that this ground of objection is not concluded by the
judgment of the state court, and therefore is open to
examination and adjudication upon its merits by tfie District Court. But the judgment has a broader operation
as res judicata than is thus suggested. The certificate
referred to was granted several months before the appellant applied for a certificate and he had personal knowledge of it fronl the time it was granted. It was shown
upon the records of the Commission and was easily accessible when the hearing was had upon his application.
Thus it is a matter which, if having the bearine now suegested, could have been brought to the dctenL1l0 o mtn
Commission either at that hearing or in his request for a
rehearing, section 543, General Statutes; and, if it was
not then given proper effect, he could have brought it to
the attention of the state court and have made the same
claim in respect of it that is now made in his bill.
The thing presented for adjudication in the case in the
state court was the validity of the order, and it was in-

PITTSBURGH & W. VA. RY. v. U. S.
470

Syllabus.

cumbent on the appellant to present in support of his
asserted right of attack every available ground of which
he had knowledge. He was not at liberty to prosecute
that right by piecemeal, as by presenting a part only of
the available grounds and reserving others for another
suit, if failing in that. TVerlein v. New Orleans, 177 U. S.
390, 398, et seq; United States v. California and Oregon
Land Co., 192 U. S. 355, 358.
As the ground just described was available but not put
forward the appellant must abide by the rule that a judgment upon the merits in one suit is res judicata in another where the parties and subject matter are the same,
not only as respects matters actually presented to sustain
or defeat the right asserted, but also as respects any other
available matter which might have been presented to that
end. Baltimore S. S. Co. v. Phillips, 274 U. S. 316, 319;
United States v. Moser, 266 U. S. 236, 241; Cromwell v.
County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 352.
We think it follows from what has been said that the
objections taken to the decree below are so unsubstantial
that the motion to affirm without awaiting oral argument
should be sustained.
Decree affirmed.
PITTSBURGH & WEST VIRGINIA RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 680.

Argued April 15, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.

1. The fact that a railway company intervened before the Interstate
Commerce Commission to oppose the granting to another railway
company of a certificate of public convenience and necessity permitting the latter to abandon one of its stitions and to use instead
the facilities of a terminal established by other carriers, gives the in-

