PARISI v. DAVIDSON

1233

Opinion in Chambers

PARISI v. DAVIDSON, COMMANDING
GENERAL, ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

Decided December 29, 1969
Application by member of Armed Forces claiming he is entitled
to a conscientious-objector clasification for stay of deployment

outside the Northern District of California denied where (1) District Court, though refusing to issue a writ of habeas corpus or
to restrain respondents from transferring applicant outside that
district, issued protective order against his having to engage in
combat activities greater than his present duties required, pending
Army board's review of his classification and further court order;
(2) the Court of Appeals, though denying a deployment stay, specified that applicant will be produced in the Northern District if
he wins his habeas corpus case; and (3) the fact that the Secretary of the Army is party to the action precludes mooting of the
case by applicant's deployment. Quinn v. Laird, 89 S. Ct. 1491,
and companion cases distinguished.

Solicitor General Griswold in opposition.
Mr. JusTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant claims he is a conscientious objector entitled to classification as such. The Army did not
approve that classification and his appeal is now pending before the Army Board for Correction of Military
Records.
Meanwhile he applied to the District Court for the
Northern District of California for a writ of habeas
corpus, and for an order restraining respondents from
transferring him out of the Northern District of California. The District Court denied that relief but it did
restrain respondents from assigning applicant "to any
duties which require materially greater participation in

combat activities or combat training than is required in

1234

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

his present duties." The District Court retained jurisdiction of the case.
Applicant appealed to the Court of Appeals and asked
for an order staying his deployment pending disposition
of his appeal. That court denied his motion for a stay
"on condition that Respondents produce the Appellant
in this district if the appeal results in his favor." He
now seeks a stay from me, as Circuit Justice; and he represents that he is under orders to report for deployment
to Vietnam the day after tomorrow, December 31, 1969.
Applicant is at present assigned to duties of "psychological counseling." It would seem offhand that "psychological counseling" in Vietnam would be no different
from "psychological counseling" in army posts here. He
would, of course, be closer to the combat zones than he
is at home; and he says that he could end up carrying
combat weapons.
I heretofore granted like stays in cases involving deployment of alleged conscientious objectors to Vietnam.
See Quinn v. Laird, 89 S. Ct. 1491. But this case
is different because of the protective order issued by the
District Court and the assurance given the Court of
Appeals that the applicant will be delivered in the
Northern District if he wins his habeas corpus case.
Moreover, as the Solicitor General points out, the Secretary of the Army is a party to this action; hence the case
will not become moot by the deployment.
If it were clear that applicant would win on the merits,
a further protective order at this time would be appropriate. But the merits are in the hands of a competent
tribunal and as yet unresolved. And I cannot assume
that the Army will risk contempt by flouting the protective order of the District Court.
Application denied.

