FEBRE v. UNITED STATES

1225

Opinion in Chambers

FEBRE v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR BAIL PENDING APPEAL

Decided September 10, 1969
Application for bail pending appeal from conviction held in abey-

ance and matter remanded to Circuit Court Judge. The District
Court denied bail without making the written explanation mandated by Fed. Rule App. Proc. 9 (b), and it does not appear why
the Court of Appeals did not remand the matter to the District
Court for compliance with the Rule as it had done in case of a
codefendant's similar bail application.

Solicitor General Griswold for the United States.
Memorandum of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, Circuit Justice.
This is an application for bail pending applicant's
appeal to the Court of Appeals from a narcotics
conviction.
The Government, while not contending that the appeal
is frivolous or taken for purposes of delay, seeks to support the lower court's denial of bail on the score that it
was found that applicant, if released on bail, would
present a danger to the community, and further that
he was a poor bail risk. See 18 U. S. C. ยง 3148; Fed.
Rule Crim. Proc. 46 (a)(2).
My difficulty with this position is twofold: First, so
far as the papers reveal, the District Court in denying
bail did not "state in writing the reasons" for its action,
as required by Fed. Rule App. Proc. 9 (b). Second, it
does not appear why the matter was not remanded to
the District Court for compliance with Rule 9 (b), as
the Court of Appeals had done in the case of an earlier
similar bail application by a codefendant; and neither
Judge Smith, nor Judge Anderson on reapplication,
otherwise explained his refusal to disturb the District
Court's determination. With no record of the proceed-

1226

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U.S.

ings below before me, I cannot assume, as the Government would have me do, that either Judge Smith or
Judge Anderson regarded the District Court's findings
on remand respecting the codefendant as equally applicable to this applicant.
While I have always been particularly reluctant to
interfere with a denial of bail below pending appeal to
the Court of Appeals, I do not think that I should act
in this instance without more light from the lower courts.
I shall therefore remand the matter to Judge Smith or
Judge Anderson, as the case may be, for appropriate
explication, meanwhile holding this application in
abeyance.

