MATTHEWS v. LITTLE

1223

Opinion in Chambers

MATTHEWS ET AL. v. LITTLE, CITY CLERK
OF ATLANTA
ON APPLICATION FOR INJUNCTION

Decided September 9, 1969
Applicants claim that a recent Atlanta ordinance will exclude
political candidates who cannot afford the filing fees it fixes, and
apply to enjoin an election on the ground that the ordinance
violates ยง 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and on the ground

(upheld by the District Court) that it violates the Equal Protection Clause. Since the proximity of the election practicably
forecloses this Court's pre-election decision on the substantial

constitutional issue involved, and a court-ordered election postponement could be disruptive, an injunction is denied, but the

applicants are temporarily relieved from paying the fee, and the
candidates' filing time is extended.

Frederic S. LeClercq on the application.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, Circuit Justice.

Applicant Ethel Mae Matthews is a prospective candidate for alderman in an Atlanta, Georgia, municipal
election now scheduled for October 7. Applicant Julia
Shields is a duly qualified Atlanta voter. Both applicants claim that their constitutional and statutory rights
are abridged by the exclusion of potential candidates for
local offices who cannot afford the filing fees fixed by
an Atlanta municipal ordinance of August 26, 1969.
They challenge the ordinance on the ground that fees
sought to be exacted violate the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment and ยง 5 of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965, 79 Stat. 439, 42 U. S. C. ยง 1973c (1964
ed., Supp. I). The constitutional question appears to me
to be a substantial one which calls for decision by the
full Court. This question is all the more serious because
a three-judge district court decided in this case that
the collection of the filing fees fixed by the ordinance

1224

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

does unconstitutionally deny equal protection of the
laws. The city election is presently set for October 7,
and, although this Court meets October 6, it will not
have time to consider and decide the merits of the constitutional claim before the election is to be held. The
result is that applicants cannot have their case decided
unless some provision is made to take care of the problem. A court-ordered postponement of the election
could have a serious disruptive effect. On the other
hand, the refusal or inability to pay fees deemed unconstitutional might keep serious candidates from running,
thus depriving Atlanta voters of an opportunity to
select candidates of their choice. Both of these undesirable consequences should be avoided if possible, and
to some extent they can be. This can be done by temporarily relieving applicants from payment of the challenged fees until the entire Court has had an opportunity
to pass on all the questions raised. Should the applicants' claims be accepted by the Court, they would then
never be required to pay the challenged fees. Should
their claims be rejected, they would then be subject to
the fees. Because the time for candidates to file notice
of their candidacy is scheduled to expire on September 10, 1969, a necessary element of this order is
that the city should extend the date for candidates to
file notice of their candidacy at least until Tuesday,
September 16, 1969. This disposition permits Atlanta
to proceed with the election as now scheduled. In the
alternative, Atlanta officials could decide of their own
accord to postpone the municipal election until after this
Court has had an opportunity to hear and decide the
issues involved.
It is so ordered.

