502

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Stephens
V.

[LoCAL LAW.]

D'Car*go.
STEPHENS,

Appellant,
V.

M'CARGo and others, Respondents.
The land law ofVirginia, of 1779, makes a pre-emption warrant superior to a treasury warrant, whenever they interfere with each other,
unless the holder of the pre-emption warrant has forfeited that superiority, by failing to enter his warrant with the surla.or of the
county, within twelve months afte.r the end of the sessio4 at which
the land law was enacted; and on that period having expired, and
being prolonged by successive acts, during which timpt there was one
interval between the expiration of the law and the act of revival,
the original right of the holder of the pre-emption warrant was preserved, notwithstanding that in -rval, the entry of th. holder dT
the treasury warrant not havi j been made during the same Interval.

Afar

l eth.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi-

ni" of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree pronounced by
the Circdit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, directing the appellant to convey to the respondents certain lands mentioned in
their bill, and claimed by them under two distinct
titles.
The board. of commissioners granted a certificate of pre-emption on the 26th day of April,
1780, to Beinjamin Harrison, for 1000 acres of
land, which certificate contained, within itself, a
good location.
The entry with the surveyor was made on the
5th day of June, 1786; the land was surveyed on

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the 12th of December, 1187; and the grant was 1824.
issued on the 10th of February, 1789.
p.
The complainants deduce title from Harrison
to parts of this land.
D'Cargo
-The appellant claims under a grant.issued on
the 1st day of March, 1784, founded on a survey
of the 14th of February, 1783; and on an ent-y
made the 30th of May, 1780, on a treasury warrant.
In an ejectment brought against all the persons
occupying the land covered by his patent, judg.mpnt was rendered in. his favour; whereupon, several of the defendants filed their bill on the equity side of the Court, setting forth their better titIe'
under the pre-emption warrant of- Harrison, and
praying that Stephens might be enjoined from
proceeding farther at law, and might be decreed
to convey to them, respectively, the lands they
held under Harrison.
An amended bill was afterwards filed, with the
leave of the Court, in which two of the defendants
in the siuit at law, who were not parties to the original bill, united with the original complainants.
This amended bill sets forth, that on the 10th dayof May, 1780, Richard Barbour made a valid entry of 1000 acres 6f land, on a. treasury warrant,
which was surveyed in January; 1786, and patented in June, 1787. One of the original cornplamant , and the two complainants int roduced in
the amended bill, show a regular title under this
patent.
The answer of the defendant put the claims in
issue, and the Court sustained the titleg both QC

M04

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'I

1824.

Harrison and Barbour, and directed the defendS
ant, Stephens, to convey to the plaintiffs so much
Stephens
•,.
the land recovered by him in the suit at law, as
M'Cargo. of
was held by those titles.
From this decree Stephens has appealed; and
his counsel alleges, that it is erroneous, because,
1. The titles of Harrison and Barbour are united in the same bill.
2. Stephens has the better title in equity, as well
as law.
1. As to the form of the proceedings:
It may be admitted, that two persons cannot
,unite two distinct titles in an original bill, although
against the same person. Such a proceeding, if
allowed, might be extended indefinitely, and might
give such a complexity to Chancery proceedings,
as would render them almost interminable. But
we know of no principle which shall prevent a
person claiming the same property by different titles, from asserting all his titles in the same bill.
If this principle be correct, tien, as three of the
complainants held under both titles, there would
be a strict propriety in submitting both titles to
the Court.
This would not be questioned, so far as the same
land was claimed by both titles. So far as the
surveys of Barbour and of Harrison interfered with
each other, and the same person held under each,
he would be unquestionably correct in comprehending both claims in the same bill. If this were the
fact in only a small portion of the land, still the
two titles may be brought before the Court; and
if this may be done, it would follow, that all who

OF THE UNITED STATES.

505

claim under either, and who areproperly in Court, 1824.
may assert their claims
. .under both titles.
Stephei*
But a joint judgment has been rendered at law,
V.
M'Cargo.
unan
have
they
and
complainants,
these
all
against
questionable right to unite in their application to
a Court of equity, f'r an injunction to this judgment. The Court may, consequently, hear the
whole cause, for the purpose of determining whether this injunction shall be perpetuated; and it is
a rule, that a Court of equity, which has jurisdiction of a question,. may proceed to its final and
complete decision. Directing a conveyance, is only making tlat relief, which would be afforddd by a
perpetual injunction, more complete.
We think, that all those against whom the judgment at law was rendered, might properly unite
in this bill, aid assert their titles under Barbour
and Harrison, or either of them.
We pioceed, then, to the inquiry, whether the
appellant or the respondent have the better title
in equity.
This inquiry is confined to that part of the case
which respects tfie title under Harrison. Barbour's
entry, being prior to that of Stephens, gives a better equitable title, according to the settled course
of decisions in Kenthcky, if the entry be'a valid
one; as this is admitted to be.
The land law of Virginia, under which all parties claim, makes a pre-emption warrant superior
to a treasury warrant, wheneven. they interfere
with each-other, unless the holder of the pre-emption warrant shall have forfeited that superiority,
by failing to comply with some of the requisites of
VOL. IX.

64

CASES' IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

'

the law. One of these is, that the warrant shall
Saephen's" be e~htered with
. the surveyor of the county within
V. twelve months after the end of the session bfAsY Carga. sembly in which.the'law was enacted.
That session of Assembly ended on the 26th of June, 1779,
and, consequently, the time 'given by, this act for
making entries, expired on the 26th of June, 1780..
But the Legislature was induced, by weighty,
considerations, to prolong this time, and various
acts of Assembly were passed, which did prolong
it, until after this entry was made. It has been
supppsed, however, that there wds, at least, one interval between the expiration of the law and the
•act of revival; and this circumstance gives birth to
the present controversy.
The right of the Legislature.to give farther. tiuae
for entering pre-emption warrantshas never been
drawn into doubt; but th6 influence of such laws
on the rights or claims of others, has been questioned. The appellant contends, that by making
his entry. on.the 30th bf May, 1780, he acquired
an inchoate righ.tto the land, which could be defeated only by such an .observance of the law, on
the part of the person possessing tle pre-emption
warrant, as would preserve it from forfeiture; and
that thie land vested"in him, by virtue of his entry,
the instant the f6rfeiture took place.
We will inquire,-hDw far this prinbiple is countenanced by the words of.the act.
When the Virginia Assembly wvas about to open
a land office,. for the purpose of selling the immense tract of vacaht territory within its limits,
certain pre-existing rights were recognised and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

affirmed; and others, which had no previous legal ' 1824.
existence, were created, and conferred on merito- '#Stephens
rious individuals, as a reward for the fatigue and
V.
M'Cargo.
Of
the-countiy.
exploring
in
encountered
hazard
the latter description, was the pre-emptive right,
given to him who had marked and improved a tract
of land. When the Jaicl office was opened, it
was opened for the sale of waste and unappropriated land, not for the sale of land already appropriated, or of land, a right to appropriate which
was vested by law in another; consequently, no
entry, strictly speaking, was authorized, either by
the act or the words of the warrant, oi) lands
which were not at the time waste and unappropriated.
The words of the law opening the land office,
are, "Be it enacted, that any person may acquire
title to so much 'waste and unappropriated land,
as he or she'shall desire to purchase, on paying
the consideration of forty pounds for every hundred
acres," &e. The land, then, which was brought intomarketand offered for sale, on which the purchaser might place his warxant, and to which he might
.acquire a title, wad "waste and unappropriated
land ;" land to which another had by lawa pre-emptive right, could not be of this description. So long
as that pre-emptive right continued, it was withdrawn from the general mass of property brought
into market and *offered for sale ; it was land to
which the power of appropriation conferred by
the warrant did not extend.
The idea and intention of the Legislature,. on
this subject, is more olearly expressed in the clause

508 -

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

"1824. which provides for the disposition of the property
"-'v
in the event of• a failure to make the entry within
'Stephens
V.e the time limited by law. It is in theke words:
M'C.argo "And where any such warrant shal not be entered and located with the cotnty surveyor, within
the before mentioned space of twelve months, the
right of pre-emption shall be forfeited, and the
lands therein .mentioned may be entered for by
any other person holding another lan4 warrant;
but such pre-emption warrant may, nevertheless,
be located on any other waste and unappropriated
lands, or upon the same lands, where they -have
not, in the mean time, been entered for by some
other."
It would be, tt least, useless, to grant an express power to the holder of a common treasury
warrant, .to locate the land after the forfeiture of
the pre-emption right, if that power had been
previously granted .by the genbral clause, which
enables him to locate Yvaste and unappropriated
land ; and' the limitation on the right of lo~ation,"
which makes it to commence after the forfeiture
of,the'pre-emptive right, is op ,osed to the idea of
its pre-existence.
The subsequent words hIuthorize the holder of
the' pre-emption warrant to locate it " on any
other waste and unappropriated land8, or upon the
same lands, where they havo not, in the mean
time, been entered for by some other."
. There can be no doubt that the words, " in the
mean time," do of themselves import that interval
which occurred.between the forfeiture of the preemption right and the re-entry of ihe warrant.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.509

Only an entry.made in this interval, obstructs the 1824.
re-entry which may be made by the holder of the "t'h"
Stephfins
v.
pre-emption warrant. If the sense of these words
DMCargO.
done
be
would
it
plainer,
still
rendered
could be
by considering them in connekion with the other
parts of the seritence. The entry which is preserved and protected against the re-entry of the
pre-emption warrant, is that which had just before
been authorized; that is, an entry made after the
right of pre-emption had been forfeited. If the
pre-emption warrant of Harrison had been reentered, and had come in conflict.with the entry
of Stephens, made prior to its forfeiture, it must
have prevailed, or .the words of the law have been
entirely disregarded. The act of Assembly, prolonging the time for making his entry, is certainly
equivalent, while in force, to a re-entry made by
himself without such act. It was in force when
his entry. was made, on the 5th day of June, i 786.
Upon the words of the law, then, there can be
no doubt respecting the superiority of the title
under Harrison, so far as -it depends on the entries. The difficulty is produced by the circumst4nce- that a patent was issued to Stephens before the warrant of Harrison was ent.ered with
the surveyor.
The entry of Stephens'was made on the 30th
day of May, 1780, before the pre-emptive right
of Harrison had expired. The survey was made
on the 14th of February, 1783, while the act of
May session, 1782, -which prolbnged the time for
making these.entries until June, 1783, was in
force. The patent issued. on the 1st. of March,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

1784, at a time-when the act, passed in 1783, prolonging the time for mnakinj entries until nine
V. months after the end of that session of Apsembly,
M'Crgo. was in fc ce.
S
Stephens

-'It is not, we think, to be doubted, that the several act§ of Assembly, prolonging the time for
entering pre-emption warrants, have thle same effect, except as. to entries made " in the mean
time," that is, in the interval between a forfeiture
and arenewal of the right, that would be'allowed
to the original act, had it continued in force until
after Stephens obtained his patent.
The ict of 1783 expired in June, 1784, and'
-was revived andtcontinued, by a subsequent law,
until November, 1786. It was during the existence of, this law that Harrison's entry was made.
The pre-existing law was permitted to expire
before the act for its revival and continuance was
passed; and the appellant, contendy, that this inter al cured all the defects in his title, and placed
itbeyond the reach of any-legislative enactment.
In support of. this position, he relies on the prin6iple settled in Kentucky, that a patent is an appropriation of land, and that no subsequent entry
can-draw its validity into question. He relies
also on the case of Hoofnagle et al. v. Anderson,
(7 Wheat. Rep. 12.)
The Court has felt.great difficulty on this point,.
The proposition that a patent is an appropriation
-of the land it covers, although the proceedings
previous to its emanation may be irregular- and
defective, is unquestionably true; but this principle has never, so :far as is known to- th Court,

OF ThE UNrITED STATES.

bcven applied to a case in which the opposing title 1824.
to the particular land in controversy, had its corn- Stephens
mencement before the patent issued. In the case
.
of Iloofnagle and otlters.v. Anderson, the plain- lu'.
tifl sought to set aside a patent by an entry made
after the grant had issued, on a warrant which
gave no specific claim to the particular land in
controversy, but a general right to locate any unappropriated land in the military district. In
tha. case, too, the warrant, under which And rson's patent had been obtained, was issued
to an officer really in the Sthte line, but said, by
mistake, to belong to the continental line. It
was,- originally, equally entitled with that under
which Hoofnagle and others claimed, to be placed
in,
the military district north-west of the Ohio, and
had lost that equal right by an act of the Legislature, not entirely compatible with that strict regard to 'vested interests, which all governments
Aieem a sacred obligation. The mistake in the
warrant was a plain official error, not mingled
with the slightest, suspicion of fraud, and its
holder, Who was a purchaser without notice, had
lost, in consequence of that mistake, the chance
of acquiring any other land. The mistake, too,
had done no more than to restore him a right
which had been -taken from him, perhaps inadvertantly, certainly with a belief that no injury
was done him.
*The situation of both Aarties was different in
that ease from wIat it is in this. The party whoobtained the patent. had an original right, equal
to that of the pdrson who demanded the land.. In

5 CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

51 2 *
1824.

this case,, the appellant has no such original right.
of Hoofnagle and others gave them
-.
V. no particular claim to the land in controversy; but,
APoargo. in this case, Harrison's warrant gave hip, and

"'.Thewarrant
Stphens ,

those claiming under him, originally, an exclusive
right to the particular land in controversy. That
exclusive right, it is true, was forfeitable, ahd
was at one time forfeited. But the Legislature,
which created the right, and limited its duration,
might, with the strictest propriety, prolong its
existence; and might also prescribe the raanner
in which the property should be afterwards acquired by any other person. The Legislature has
prescribed that manner. It is by an entry made
when the pre-emptive right was -forfeited. With
the single exception of the claim given by such
an eitry, the Legislature -might certainly remit
th9 forfeiture, and rdinstate the pre-emptioner in
his original rights.
A title acquired according to law, might very
properly be considered. as obstructing the operation of this reinstating act, and be sustained
against him; but a title which, in no stage of its
progress, was authorized by law, appears under
circumstances much less favourable. That patents obtained on improper entries have prevailed
against persons whose titles. commenced after
such patents have issued, is no authority for the
opinion that such patents 'ought to prevail against
a title which traces its commencement to a time
anterior to the emanation of the patent. The
only difficulty in the case consists in connecting
the ilght of the pre-emptioner, at the time his

OF THE UNITED STATES.

5138

entry was made, with the original right given by 1824.
the act which opened the land office. That act '-",'
"
Stephen
gave the person who had marked'and improved a . v.
.piece of ground, the pre-emption to 1000 acres of MICargo.
land, to include his improvement, provided the
warrant was entered within twelve months. That
any act prolonging the time for making this entry,
would continue the original right, is not to be
questioned. It is plainly the intention of the Legislature, and nothing can prevent that intention
from being effectual, but the intervention of some
other title- bhich the Legislature cannot rightfully
remove. The original act shows how that other
intervening title may be obtained. It is by an
entry made while the pre-emptive right had no
existence.
Considering this question as being res integra,
entirely unaffected by the decisions made in the
Courts of Kentucky, the opinion of this Court
would be, that a title acquired while the pre-emptive right of Harrison was in force, could not be
sustained against his entry, if made according to
the act by which his right was continued. We
do not think that this opinion is opposed to the
decisions of Kentucky, because no decision has
ever been made in that country against a preemption fight, properly entered, under the acts of
Assembly for continuing the original law in favour
of a treasury warrant, located while those laws
were in force. Titles under treasury warrants,
entered during the existence of a prior right, have
been sustained against other subsequent entries,
VOL IX.

65

CASES IN THE4 SUPREME COURT

514
1824.
Stephens

StphV.
5Gargo.

made under similar circumstances; but never, so
as we are informed, igainst that prior right,
if completed according to acts of the Legislature
prolonging the time for its completion.

Sfar

In the case of Alsted et al. v. Miller, (Hardin,
193:) the Court of Appeals of Kentucky decided
in favour of a title founded on a pre-emption %varrant, entered in December, 1782, against a title
founded on a treasury warrant, entered on the
9th of* June, 1780. That'case is admitted to
differ essefitially from this, because, when Miller's
pre-emption warrant was entered, no interval had
occurred between the different acts, during which
the land might have been legally entered; and
because, too, Miller's appears to have been the
oldest patent. But in that case the Court decided
that the time for entering the pre-emption warrant
might be prolonged, notwithstanding the previous
entry of a treasury warrant on the same land.
The Court observed, that the holders of treasury
warrants purchased, subject to the reservations
made in favour of pre-emptioners; that the Legislature might have permitted this reserved land
to return to the common fund, on the failure of
the person holding the pre-emption warrant to
comply with the terms of the law, or might dispense with those terms in his favour, and prolong
the time allowed for making his entry. The
principle of this decision is, that an entry made
during the existence of the pre-emptivp right, is
not suci an inceptive title, as could be defeated
only by the performance of the ,condition on which

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the pre-emption right depended, at the time his
entry was made. It gave him no rights vhich
were not under the control of -the Legislature,
and might not be defeated by an act giving the
pre-emptioner farther time to enter his warrant.
So far, then, as th6, decisions of Kentucky go,
they are rather in favour of the opinion, that the
original right of Harrison was preserved, notwithstanding the interval during which it was forfeited,

515
1824.
Love

v.
Sinms.

since the entry of the appellant was not made in

that interval.
The decree of the Circuit Court affirmed, with
cost.

[LoCAL LAw.1

LovE, Plaintiff in Error.
V.

Sirm~s's lessee, Defendant in Erroi.
A question, under the regisu'y acts of Tennessee, whetli r a juntor
conveyance registered, should take precedence of a prior unrcgi"
tered deed. Rdd. that the rmgiitry did not, uuder the circmwn
stances. vest the 111le agaiint the eder deed.

ERROR to the. Circuit Court of West Tennessee.

This cause was argued by Mr. Eaton far the Fdaesd.

