REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1824.

[CONSTITUTIONAL Liw.

G(BBbNS,

Appelant, v.

OGDEN,

Respondent.

The acts of the Legislature of the State of New-York, granting to
Robert R. Livingston and RobertFultoh the exclusive navigation
of all the waters within the jurisdiction of that State, with boats
moved by fire or steam, for a term of years, are repugnant to that
clause of the constitution of the United States, which authorizes
Congress to regulate commerce, so far as the said acts prohibit vessels licensed, according to the laws of the United States- for carrying on the coasting trade, from navigating the said waters by
means of fire or stebm.

APPEAL from the Court for the Trial of Impdachments and Correction of Errors of the State
of New-York. Aaron Ogden filed his bill in tht
Court of Chanceryof that State, against Thorias
Gibbons, setting forth the several acts of the Legislature thereof, enacted for the purpose of securing
to Robert R. Livingston and Robert Fulton, the
VoL. IX.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
GibbonsI

v.

Ogden.

exclusive navigation of all the waters within the
jurisdiction of that State, with boats moved by
fire or steam, for a term of years which has not
yet expired; and authorizing the Chancellor to
award an injunction, restraining any-person whatever from navigating those waters with boats of
that description. The bill stated an aspignment
-from Livingston and Fulton to one John R. Livingston, and from him to the complainant, Ogden,
of the right to navigate thewaters between.Elizabethtown, and other places, in New-Jersey, and
the city of New-York; and that Gibbons, the defendant below, was in possession of two steam
boats, called the Stoudinger and the Bellona,
which were actually employed in running between
New-York and, Elizabethtown, in violation of the
exclusive privilege conferred on the complainant,
and praying an injunction to restrain the said Gibbons from using the said boats, or any other propelled by fire or steam, in navigating the waters
within the territory of New-York. The injunction having been awarded. the answer of Gibbons
was filed; in which he stated, that 4,. boats employed by him were duly enrolled and licensed, to
be employed in carrying on the coasting trade,
under the act of Congress, passed the 18th of February, 1793, c. 8. entitled, "An act for enrolling
and licensing ships and vessels to be employed
in the coasting trade and fisheries, and for regulating the same." And the defendant in. :sted on
his right, in virtue of such licenses, to navigate
the wateks between Elizabethtown and the city of
New-York, the aaid acts of the Legislature of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

State of New-York to the contrary notwithstand-

1824.

ing.

Gibbml

At the hearing, the Chancellor perpetuated

the injunction, being of the opinion, that the said
v.
acts were not repugnant to the constitution anc Qgdcn.
laws of the. United States, and were valid. This
decree wa affirmed in the Court for the Trial of
Impeachments and Correction of Errors, which is
the highest Court of law and equity in the State,
before which the cause could be carried, and it
was thereupon brought to this Court by appeal.
Mr. Webster, for the appellant, admnitted, that Feb. 4th, 5ts,
there was a very respectable weight of authority and sfh.
in favour of the decision, which was sought to
be reversed. The laws in question, he kqiew,
had been deliberately re-enacted bythe Legislature
of New-York; and they had also received the
sanction, at different times, of all her judicial tribunals, than which there were few, if any, in the
country, more justly entitled to respect and deference. The disposition of the Court-woulr be,
undoubtedly, to support, if it could, laws so
passed and so sanctioned. He admitted, therefore, that it was- jtwtly expected of him that ho
should make out a clear case; and unless he did
so, he did not hope for a reversal. It should be
remembered, however, that the whole of this
branch of power, as exercised by this Court, was
a power of revision. The question must be decided.by the State Courts, and deoided in a particular manner, before it could be Drought here at
all. Such decisions alone gave tie Court jurisdiction; and therefore, while they are to be re-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

spected as the judgments of learned Judges, they
are yet in the condition of all decisions from
which the law allows an appeal.
It would not be a waste of time to advert to the
existing state, of the facts connected with the subject of this litigation. The use of steam boats,
on the coasts; and in the bays and rivers of the
country, had become very general. The intercourse of its different parts essentially depended
upon this mode of conveyance and transportation.
Rivers and bays, in many cases, form the divisions between States; and thence it was obvious,
that if the States should make regulations for the
navigation of these waters, and such regulations
should be repugnant and hostile, embarrassment
would necessarily happen to the general intercourse of the community. Such events had actually occurred, and had created the existing state
of things.
By the law of New-York, no one can navigate
the bay of New-York, the North River, the Sound,
the 1 kes, or any of the waters of that State, by
steam vessels, without a license from the grantees
of New- York, under penalty of forfeiture of the
vessel.
1Dy the law of the neighbouring State of Connecticut, no one can enter her waters with a
steam vessel having such license.
By the law of New-Jersey, if an citizen of
that State shall be restrained, under the NewYork law, from using steam boats between the
ancient shores of New-Jersey and New-York, he
s1all be entitled to an action for damages, in

OF THE IINITED STATES.

New-Jersey, with treble costs against the party 1824.
who thus restrains or impedes" him under the law Gibbons
of New- Yprk! This act of New-Jersey is called
v.
gde
and'oppresillegal
the
against
an act of retortion.
sive legislation of New-York; and seems to be
defended on those grounds of public law which
justify r erisals between independent States.
It would hardly be contended, that all these acts
were consistent with the laws and constitution of
the United States. If there were no power in the
general government, to control this extreme belligerent legislation of the States,. the powers bf
the government were essentially deficient, in a
most important and interesting particular. The
present controversy respected the earliest of these
State laws, those of New-,York. On those, this
Court was now to pronounce; and if they should
be declared to be valid and operative, he hoped
somebody would point out where the State right
stopped, and on what grounds the acts of other
States were to be held inoperative and void.
It-would be necessary to advert, more particularly'to the laws of New-York, as they were stated
in the record. The first was passed March 19th,
1787. By this act, a sole-and exclusive right was
granted to John Fitch, of making and using every
kind of boat or vessel impelled by steam, in all
creeksi rivers, bays, and waters, within the territory and jurisdiction of New-York, for fourteen
years.
On the 27th of March, 1798, an act was passed,
on the suggestion that Fitch was dead, or had
withdrawn from the State, without having Made

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

any attempt to use his privilege, repealing the

n
Gibbons

grant to him, and conferring similar privileges on

V.

Ogden.

Robert R. Lipingston, for the term of twenty
years, on a suggestion, made by him, that he was
possessor of a mode oJ applying the steam engine
to p opel a boat, on new and advantageousprinciples. On the 5th of April, 1803, another act
was passed, by which it was declared, that the
rights and privileges granted to R. R. Livingston,
by the last act, should be extended to him and
.Robcrt Fulton,for twenty years, from the passing of this act. Then there is the act of April
11, 1808, purporting to extend the monopoly, in
point of time, five years for every additional boat,
the whole duration, however, not to exceed thirty
years; and forbidding any and all persons to navigate the waters of the State, with any steam bQat or
vessel, without the license of Livingston and Fulton, under penalty of forfeiture of the boat or
vessel. And, lastly, comes the act of April 9,
1811, for enforcing the provisions of the last mentione 4 act, and'declaring, that the forfeiture of
the boat or vessel, found navigating against the
provisions of the previous acts, shall be deemed
to accrue on the day on which such boat or vessel
should navigate the waters of the State ; and that
Livingston and Fulton might immediately .have
an action for such boat or vessel, in like manner as
if they themselves had been dispossessed thereof
by force; and that on bringing any such suit, the
defendant therein should be prohibited, by injunction, from removing the boat or Yessel out of the
State, or using it within the State. There were

OF THE UNITED STATES.

one or two other acts mentioned in the plead ags, 1824.
which principally respected*
y the time allowed for Gibbodts
complying with the condition of the grant, and
Ogdeb.
were not material tb the discussion of the case.
By these acts, then, an exclusive right is given
to Livingston and Fulton, to use steam navigadtion on all the waters of New-York, for thirty
years from 1808.
It is not necessary to recite the several conveyances and agreements, stated in the record, ky
which Ogden, the plaintiff below, derives title
under Liv-ingston and Fulton, to the exclusive
use of part of these waters.
The appellant being owner of a .steam-boat,
and being found navigating the waters between
New-Jersey and the city of New-York, over which
waters Ogden,. the plaintiff below, claimed an
exclusive right, under Livingston and Fulton,,
this bill was filed against him by Ogden, in October, 1818, and an injunction granted, restraining
him from such use of his boat. This injunction
was made perpetual, on the final hearing of the
cause, in the Court of Chancery; and the decree
of the Chancellor has been duly affirmed in the
Court of Errors. The right, therefore, which
the plaintiff- below asserts to have and maintain
his injunction, depends 4bviously on the general
validity of the New-York laws, and, especially,
on their force, and operation as against the right
set up by the defendant. This right he states, in
his answer, to be, that he. is a citizen of NewJersey, and owner of the tteam-boat in question;
1hat the boat was a 'oessel of more than twenty

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i824. tons burden,
'"
Gibbons ' rying on the
V. emp.oyed by
Ogden. bethtown, in

duly enrolled and licensed for carcoasting trade, and intended-to be
him, in that trade, between ElizaNew-Jersey, and the city of New-

York; and was actually employed in navigating
between those places, at the tinie of, and until
notice of the injunction from the Court of Chancery was served on him.
On these pleadings the substantial question is
raised: Are these laws such as the Legislature of
New-York had a right to pass? If so, do they,
secondly, in their operation, interfere with any
right enjoyed under the constitution and laws of
the'United States, and are they, therefore, void,
as far as such interference extends ?
. It may be well to state again their general purport and effect, and the purport and effect of the
other State'laws, which have been enacted by way
of retaliation.
A steam vessel, of any description, going to
New-York, is forfeited to the representatives of
Livingston and Fulton, unliss she have their license.
Going from New-York, or elsewhere, to Connecticut, she is prohibited from entering the waters of that State, if she have such license.
'Ifthe representatives of Livingston and Fulton, in New-York, carry into effect, by judicial
process, the provisiori of the New-York laws,
against any citizen of New-Jqrsey, they expose
themselves to a statute action, in New-Jersey, for
all damages, and treble costs.
The New-York laws extend to all steam vessels;

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ito steam -frigates, steam ferry-boats, and all in- 1824.
termediate classes.
Gibb=s
They extend to public as well as private ships;
v.
and to vessels employed in foreign commerce, as Ogden.
well as-to those employed in the coasting trade.
The remddy is as summary as the grant itself
is ample; for immediate confiscation, without
seizure, trial, or judgment, is the penalty of infringement..
In regard to these acts, he should contend, in
the first place, that they exceeded the power of
the Legislature; and, secondly,-that if they could
be considered valid, for any purpose, they were

void, still, as against any right enjoyed under the
laws of the United States, with which they came
in collision; and that, in this case, they were
found interfering Wvith such rights.
He -should contend, that the power of Congre s
to regulate commerce, was complete and entire,
and, to a certain extent, necessarily exclusive;
that the acts in question were regulations of commerce, in a most important particular; end af-

fecting it in those respects, in which-it was nder
the exclusive authority-of Congress: He stated
this first proposition -guardedly. He did not mean
to say that al .regulations which might, in their
operation, affect commerce, were exclusively in

the power of Congress; but that awk power as
had been exercised in this case, did not rfmain
with the States. Nothing was more complex'than
commerce; and in such an age as this, no -words
embraced a wider field than eommerdat rgzdzwvf
-ks. Almost alithe business and intercourse
M2
'VOLJ.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
v.

Ogden.

life may be connected, incidentally, more or less,
with commercial regulations. But it was only
necessary to apply to this part of the constitution
the well settled rules of construction.
Some
powers are holden to be exclusive in Cofigress,
from the use of exchisive words in the grant;
others, from the prohibitions on the States to
exercise similar powers; and others, again, from
the nature of the powers themselves. It has been
by this mode of reasoning that the Court has adjudicated on many important questions; and the
same mode is proper here. And, as some powers have been holden exclusive, and others not so,
ulder the same form of expression, from the nature of the different powers respectively; sQ, where
the power, on any one subject, is given in general
words, like the power to regulate commerce, the
true method of construction would be, to consider
of what parts the grant is composed, and which
of thdse, from the nature of the thing, ought to
be considered exclusive. The right set up in this
case, under the laws of New-York, is a monopoly. Now, .he thought it very reasonable to say,
that the constitution never intended to leave with
the States the power of granting monopolies,
either of trade or of navigation; and, therefore,
that as to this, the commercial power was exclu.sire in Congress.
It was in vain to look for a precise and exact
definition of the powers of Congress, onseveral
subjects. The constitution did not undertake the
task of making such exact definitions. In conferiing powers, It proceeded in the way of enumcra-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion, stating the powers conferred, one after ano- 1824.
Oibb s
ther; in few words; and, where the power was Gibbons
V.
general, or complex in its nature, the extent of
the grant must necessarily be judged of, and lhi- Ogden.
ted, by its object, and by the nature of the power.
Few things were better known, than the iRfiinediate causes which led to the adoption of the present constitution; and he thought nothing clearer,
than thai the prevailing motive was to regulate
commerce; to rescue it from the embarrassing and
destructive consequences, resulting from the legislation of so many different States, and to place
it under the protection of a. uniform law.

The

great objects were commerce and revenue; and
they were objects indissolubly connected. .By
the confederation, divers restrictions had been
imposed on the States; but these had not been
found sufficient. No State, it was true, could
send or receive an embassy; nor make any treaty;
nor enter into any compact with another state, or
with a foreign power; nor lay duties, interfering
with treaties which had been entered into by Congress. But all these were found to be far short of
what the actual condition of the country required.
The States could still, each for itself, regulate
commerce, and the consequence was, a perpetual
jarring and hostility of commercial ggulation.
In the history of the times, it was ticcordingly
found, that the great topic, urged on all occasions,
as showing the necessity of a new and different
government, was the state of trade and commerce.
To.benefit and improve these, was a great object
in itself: and it became greater when it was re-

CASES IN TIIE SUPREME COUR

1824.

-garded as the only means of enabling ie country
Gibbonsto pay the public debt, and to do justice to those
Gibbons
v.
who had most effectually laboured for its indepenOgden. dence. The leading state papers of the time aro
full of this topic. The New-Jersey resolutions"
complain, that the regulation of trade was in the
power of the several States, within their.separato
jurisdiction, in such a degree as to involve many
difficulties and embarrassments; and ihey express
an earnest opinion, that the sole and'exclusivo
power of regulating trade with foreign States,
ought to be in Congress. Mr. Witherspoon's
motion-in Congress, in 1781, is of the same general character; and the report of a committee of
that body, in 1785, is still more emphatic. It declares that Congress ought to possess the sole and
exclusive power of regulating trade, as well with
foreign nations, as between the States." The resolutions of Virginia, in January, 1786, which
were the immediate cause of -the convention, put
forth this same great object. Indeed, it is the
only object stated in those resolutions. There is
not another idea in the whole document. The.
entire purpose for which the delegates assembled
at Annapolis, was to devise means for the uniform
regulation of trade. They.found no means, but
in a general government; and they recommended
a convention to accomplish that purpose. Over
whatever other interests of the country this governinent may diffuse its benefits, and its blessings, it
cI

Laws U. S. p. 28.

6 Id. 5o.

up THE UNITED STATEz.

will always be true, as matter. of historical tihct, 1824.
that it had its imimediate origin i. the necessities Gibbons
of commerce ; and, for its immediate object, the
v.
relief of those necessities, by removing their Ogden.
causes, and by establishing a uniforn and steady
system. It would be easy to show, by reference
to the discussions in the several State conventions,
the prevalence of the same general topics; and if
any one woulh look to the proceedings of several
of the States, especially to fhose of Massachusetts and New-York, he would see, very plainly,
by the recorded lists of votes, that wherever this
commercial necessity was most strongly felt, there
*the proposed new constitution had most friends.
In the Now-York convention, the argument arising
from this consideration was strongly pressed, by
the distinguished person whose name is connected
with the present question.
We do not find, in the history of the formation
and adoption of the constitution, that any mart
speaks of a gene.ral concuTrent power, in the regulation of foreign and domestic trade, as still
residing in the State's. The very object intended,
more than any other, was to take away such
power. If it had not so provided, the constitution would not have been worth accepting.
He contended, therefore, th4 the. people intended, in establishing the constitution, to transfer, from the several States to a general government, those high and important powers over cominerce, which, in their exercise, were to maintain
an uniform and general system. From the very
nature of- the case, these powers must be exclit-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
(Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

sive; that is, the higher branches of commercial
regulation must be exclusively committed to a
single hand. What is it that is to be regulated?
Not the commerce of the several States, respectively, but the commerce of the United States.
Henceforth, the commerce of the States was to be
an 71nit; and the system by which it Ai'as to exist
and b' governed, must necessarily be complete,
entire, and uniform. Its character was to be
described in the flag which waved over it, E PLURiBUS Urum. Now, 'how could individual States
assert a right of concurrent legislation, in a case
oif this sort, without manifest encroachment and
confusion ? It should be repeated, that the words
used in the constitution, "to regulate commerce,"
are so very gneral and extensive, that they might
be construed to cover a vast field of legislation,
part of which has always been occupied by State
laws; and, therefore, the words must have a reasonable construction, and'the power should be
considered as exclusively vested in Congress, so
far, and so -far only, as the nature of thq power
requires. And he irnsisted, that the nature of the
case, and of the power, did imperiously require,
that such important authority as that of granting
monopolies of trade and navigation, should not be
considered as still retained by the States.
It is apparent, from the prohibit ns on the
power of the States, that the general coricurrent
power was not supposed to be left kith "them.
And the exception, out of these prohibitions, of
the inspec an laws, proves this still more clearly.
Which most coricerns the commerce of this coun-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

try, that New-York and Virginia should have an

1824.

uncontrolled power to establish their inspection

Gibbons

v.
for flour and tobacco, or that they should have an
Ogden.
monopoly
a
either
granting
of
power
uncontrolled
of trade in their own ports, or a monopoly of navigation over all the waters leading to those ports?
Yet, the argument on the other side must be,
that, although the constitution- has sedulously
guarded and limited the first of these powers, it
has left the last wholly unlimited and uncontrolled.
But, although much had been said, in the discussion on former occasions, about this supposed
concurrent power in the States, he found great difficulty in understanding what was meant by it.
It was generally qualified, by saying, that it was
a power, by which'the States could pass laws on
the subjects of commercial regulation, which
would be valid, until Congress should pass other
laws controlling them, or inconsistent .with them,
and that then the State laws must yielJ. What
sort of concurrent powers were these, which could
not exist together? Indeed, the very reading of
the clause in the constitution must put to flight
this notion of a general concurrent power. The
constitution was formed for all the States; and
Congress was to have power to regulate commerce.
Now, what is the import of this, but that Congress
is to give-sthe rule-to establih the system-to
exercise the control over the subject? And, cun
more than one power, in cases of this sort, give
the rule, establish the system, or exercise the
control? As it is not contended that the power
of Congress is to be exercised by a superrision

CASPS IN THE' SUPRPME COURT

1824.
%
v.

Ogden.

of State legislation; and, as it is.clear, that Congress is to give the geoeral rule, be-contended,
that this 'power of giving the general-rule was
transferred, by the coostitution, from the States
to Congress, to be exorcised as that body might
see fit. And, consequently, that all those high
exercises of power, which might be considered as
giving the rule, or establishing the system, in regard to great commercial interests, were necessarily left with Congress alone. Of this character
he considered monopolies of trade or navigation;
embargoes; the system of navigation laws; the
countervailing laws, as against foreign states;
and other important enactments respecting our
'connexion with such states. It appeared to him
a most reasonable construction, to say, that in
these respects, the power of Congress is exclusive, from the nature of the power. If it be not
so, where is the limit, or-who shall fix a boundary
for the exercise of the power of the States ? Can
a State grant a monopoly of trade ? Can NowYork shut her ports to all but her own citizens ?
Can she refuse admission to ships of particular
nations ? The argument on the other side is,
and must be, that she might do all these things,
until Congress should revoke her enactments.
And this is called concurrent legislation. What
confusion such notions lead to, is obvious enough.
A power in the States to do any thing, and every
thing, in regard to commerce, till Congress shall
undo it, would suppose a state of things, at least
as bad as that which existed before the -present
constitution. It is 'the true wisdom of these go-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vernments to keep their action as distinct as possi- 1824.
should not seek Gibbous
ble. The general government.
v.
to operate where the States can operate with
Ogdem.
$hould
nor
community;
the
to
advantage
more
the States encroach on ground, which the public
good, as well as tb.e constitution, refers to the
exclusive control of Congress.
If the present state of things-these laws of
New-York, the laws of Connecticut, and the laws
of NewrJersey, had been all presented, in the
convention of New-York, to the eminent person
whose name is on this record, and who acted, on
that occasion, so impprtant a part; if he had been
told, that, after all he had said in favour of the
new government, and of its salutary effects on
commercial regulations,, the time should yet come,
when the North River would be shut up 'by a
monopoly from New-York; the Sound interdicted
by a penal law of Connecticut; Tep'risas au,thorized by New-Jersey, ,agaihlst citizens of NewYork; and when one could not cross a ferry,
without transhipment; does any one suppose he
would have admitted all this, as compatible with
the government which he was recommending?
This doctrine of a general concurrent power in
the States, is insidious, and dangerous. if it be
admitthd, no one can say where it will stop. The
States may legislate, it is said, wherever Congress
has not made a plenary exercise of its power.
But who is to judge whether Congress has made
this plenary exercise of power? Congress has
acted on this power; it has done all that it dee med
wise; and are. the States now to do whatever
VOL. IX.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

Congress has left undone? Congress makes such
rules
as, in its judgment, the case requires; and
Gibbons
V.
those rules, whatever they are, constitute theOgden. system.
All useful regulation does not consist in restraint; and that which Congress sees fit to leave
free, is a part of its regulation, as much as the
rest.
He thoughttJe practice under the constitution
sufficiently evinced, that this portion of the commercial power was exclusive in Congress. When,
before this instance, have the States granted monopolies? When, until now, have they interfered
with the navigation of the country? The pilot
laws, the health laws, or quarantine laws; and
various regulations of that class, which have been
recognised by Congress, are no arguments to
prove, even if they are to be called commercial
regulations, (which they are not,) that other regulations, more directly and strictly commercial,
are not solely within the power of Congress.
There was a singular fallacy, as he humbly ventured to think, in the argument of very learned
and most respectable persons, on this subject.
That argument alleges, that the States have a
concurrent power with Congress, of regulating
commerde; and its proof of this position is, that
the States have, without any question of their
right, passed acts respecting turnpike roads, toll
bridges, and ferries. These are declared to be
acts of
nommercia regulation, affecting not only
the interior commerce of the Stpte itself, but also
commerce between different States. There'bre,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

as all these are commercial regulations, and are 1824.
yet acknowledged to be rightfully established by N
the States, it follows, as is supposed, that the
V.
States must have a concurrent power to regulate Ogden,
commerce.
Now,whatwas the inevitable consequence of this
mode of reasoning? Does it not admit the power
of Congress, at once, upon all these minor objects of legislation? If all these be regulations
of commerce,. within the meaning of the constitution, then, certainly, Congress having a con.
current power to regulate - commerce, may establish ferries, turnpikes, bridges, &c. and provide
for all this detail of interior legislatiQu. To sustain the inteiference'of the State, in a'high concern of maritime commerce,.fhe argument adopts
a principle which acknowledges the right of Congress, over a vast scope of internal legislation,
which no one has heretofore supposed to be within
its powers. But this is not all; for it is admitted,
that when Congress and the States have power
to legislate over the same subject, the power of
Congress, when exercised, controls 6r extinguishes the State power; and, therefore, the consequence would seem to follow, from the argument, that all State legislation,,over such subjects
as have been mentioned, is, at all times, liable to
the ,superior power of Congress; a consequence,
which no one-would .admit for a moment. The
truth was, -he thought, that all these things were,
in. their general character, rather regulations of
police than of co mnerce, in the constitutional
understanding of that term. A road, ihdeed,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
v

Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

might be a matter of great commercial concern.
In many cases it is so; and when it is so, he
thought there was no doubt of the power of Congress to make it. But. generally speaking, roads,
and bridges, and firrics, though, of course, they
affect commerce amud intercourse, do. not obtain
that imporiance and elevation, as to be deemed
commercial regulations. A reasonable construction must be given to the constitution; and such
construction is as necessary to the just power of
the States, as to the authority of Congress. Quarantine Yaws, for vxtimple, way be considered as
affecting commerce ; yet they are, in their nature,
health laws. In England, we speak of the power
of regulating commerce, as in Parliament, or the
King, as arbiter of commerce; yet the city of
London enacts health laws. Would any one infer
from that circumstance, that the city of London
had concurrent power with Parliament or the
Crown to regulate commerce? or, that it might
grant a monopoly of the navigaiion of the Thames?
While a health -law is reasonable, -it is .a health
law; but if, under colour of it, enactments should
be made for other purposes, such enactments
*might be void.
In the discussion in the New-York Courts, no
small reliance was placed on the law of that State
prohibiting the importation of slaves, as an example of a commercial regulation,' enacted by
State authority. That law may or may not be
Poonstitutional and valid. It has been referred to
generally, but itg particular provisions have not

OF 'T'HE UNITE D .'1 l.

been' stated.

When they are more qclearly seen,

1824.

its character may be better determined.

Gibbons
Gibbons

It might further be argued, that the power of
Congress over these high branches of commerce
was xclusive, from the consideration that Congress possessed an exclusive admiralty jurisdiction.
That it did possess such exclusive jurisdiction,
would hardly be contested. No State pretended
to exercise any jurisdiction of that kind. The
States had abolished their Courts of Admiralty,
when the constitution went into operation. Over
these waters, therefore, or, at least, some of them,
which are the subject of this monopoly, NewYork has no jurisdiction whatever. They are a
part of the high sea, and not within the body of
any county. The authorities of that State could
not punish for a murder, committed on board one
of these boats, in some places within the range of
-this exclusive grant. This restraining of the
States from all jurisdiction, out of the bodies of
their own counties, shows plainly enough, that
navigation on the high seas, was understood to be
a matter to be regulated'only by Congress. It is
not unreasonable to say, that what are called the
waters of New-York, are, to purposes of navigation and commercial regulation, the waters of the
United States. There iq no cession, indeed, of
the waters themselves, but their use, fdr those purposes, seemed to be entrusted to the exclusive
power of Congress. Several States have -enacted
laws, which would appear to imply their conviction of the power of Congress, over navigable
waters, to a: greater extent

V.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

If there be a concurrent power of regulating
commerce on the high seas, there must be a concurrent admiralty jurisdiction, and a concurrent
control of the waters. Itis a common principle,
that arms of the sea, including navigable rivers,
belong to the sovereign, so far as navigation is
concerned. Their use is navigation. The United
States possess the general power over navigation,
and, of course, ought to control, in general, the
use of navigable waters. If it be admitted, that
for purposes of trade and navigation, the North
River, and its bay, are the 'river and bay of NewYork, and the Chesapeake the bay of Virgiria,
very great inconveniences and much confusion
might be the result:
It might now be well to take a nearer view of
these laws, to see more xactly what their provisions were, what constequences have followed
from them, and what would and might follow from
other similar laws.
The first grant to John Fitch, gave him the
sole and exclusive right of making, employing,
and navigating, all boats impelled by fire or steam,
" in all creeks, rivers, bays, and waters, within
the territoryandjurisdictionof the State." Any
other person, navigating such boat, was to forfeit
it, and to pay a penalty of a hundred pounds;
The subsequent acts repeal this, and grant'similar privileges to Livingston and Fulton: and
the act of 1811 provides the extraordinary and
.summary remedy, which has been already'stated.
The river, the bay, and the marine league along
the shore, are all within the scope of thisgrant.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Any vessel, therefore, of this description, coming 1824.
into any of those waters, without a license, whe- Gibbons
v.
ther from another State, or from abroad, whether
Ogden.
forinstantly
is
vessel,
private
or
it be a public
feited to-the grantees of the monopoly.
Now, it must be remembered, that this grant is
made as an exercise of sovereign politicalpower.
It is not an inspection law, nor a health law, nor
passed by any derivative authority; it is professodly an act of sovereign power. Of course, there
is no limit to the power, to be derived from the
puIrpose for which it is exercised. If exercised
for one purpose, it may be also for another. No
one can inquire ito the motives which influence
sovereign authority. It is enough, that such power
manifests its will. The motive alleged in- this
case is, to remunerate the grantees for a benefit
conferred by them on the public. But there is no
necessary connexion between that benefit and this
mode- of rewarding it; apd if the State could
grant this monopoly for that purpose, it could also
grant it for any other purpose. It could make the
grant for money- and so make the monopoly of
navigation over those waters a direct source of
revenue. When this monopoly shall, expire, in
1838, the State may continue it, for any pecuniary
consideration-which the holders may see fit to offer,
and the State to receive.
If-the "tate may grant this'monopoly, it may
also grant another, for other descriptions of vessels; for instance' for all sloops.
If it can grant these exclusive privildges to a
few, it may-grant them to many; that, is, ,it may

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
Gibbons

V."
Ogden.

grant them to all its own citizens, to the exclusion of every body else.
But the waters of New-York are no more the
subject of exclusive granis by that State, than the
waters of other States are subjects of such grants
by those other States. Virginia may well exercise,
over the entrance of the Chesapeake, all the power
that New-York can exercise over the bay of NewYork, and the waters on the shore. The Chesapeake, therefore, upon the principle of these
laws, may be the subject of State'monopoly; and
so may the bay.of Massachusetts. But this is not
all. It requires no greater power, to grant a monopoly of trade, than a monopoli of navigation.
Of course, New-York, if these acts can be maintained, may give an exclusive right of entry of
vessels into her ports. And the other States way
do the same. These are not extreme cases. We
have only to suppose that other States should do
what New-York has already done, and that the
power should be parried to its full extent..
To all this, there is no answer to be given except this, that the concurrent power of the States,
concurrent though it be, is yet subordinateto the
legislation of Congress; and that, therefore, Congress may, when it pleases, annul the State legislation; but, until it does so annul it, the State legislation is valid and effectual. What. is there to
recommend a construction which leads to a result
like this ? Hdre would be a perpetual hostility;
one Legislature enacting laws, till another Legislature should repeal them; one sovereign power
gving the rule, till,r,auher sovereign power should

OF THE UNITED STATES.

abrogate it; and all this under the idea of con-

1824.

current legislation!
But further; under this concurrentpower, the
State does that which Congress cannot do; that
is, it gives preferences to the citizens of some
States over those of others. I do not mean here
the advantages conferred by the grant on the
grantees; but the disadvantages to .which it subjects all the other citizens of New-York. To impose an extraordinary tax on steam navigation
visiting the ports of New-York, and leaving it free
every where else, is giving a preference to the
citizens of other States over those of New-York.
This Congress could not do; and yet the State
does it: so that this power, at first subordinate,

Gibbonw

then concurrent, now becomes paramount.

The people of New-York have a right to be
protected -againstthis monopoly. It is one of the
objects for which they agreed to this constitution,
that they should stand on an equality in commercial regulations; and if the government should
not insure them that, the promises made to them,
in its behalf, would not be performed.
lie contended, therefore, in conclusion on this
point, that the power of Congress over these high
branches of commercial regulation, was shown to
be exclusive, by considering what was wished and
intended to be done, when the convention, for
forming file constitution, was called; by what was
understood, in the State conventions, to have been
accomplished by the instrument; by the prohibitions on the States, and the eXpress exception relative to inspection laws; by the nature of the
VOL. IX.

4.

V.
Ogdpn.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

power itself; by the terms used, as connected
with the nature of the powc.r; by the subsequent
understanding and practice, both of Congress and
the States; by the grant of exclusive admiralty
jurisdiction to the federal government; by the
manifest danger of the opposite doctrine, and the
ruinous consequences to which it directly leads.
It required. little now to be said, to prove that
this exclusive grant is a law regulating commerce;
although, in some of the discussions elsewhere,
it had been called a law of police. If it be not a
rek'ulation of commerce, then it follows, against
-the constant admission -on the other side, that
Congress, even by an express act, could not annul
or control it. For if it be not a regulation of
comrmerce, Congress has no concern with it. But
the granting of monopolies of 'this kind is always
referred to the power over commerce. It was as
arbiter of commerce that the King formerly
granted such monopolies.a This is a law regulating commerce, inasmuch as it imposes new
conditions and terms on the coasting trade, on
foreign trade .generally, and on fo;ign trade as
regulated by treaties; and inasmuch as it inter.
feres. with the free navigation of navigable waters.
If,then, the. power of commercial regulation,
pdsessed by Congress, be, in regard to the great
branches of it, exclusive; and if this grant.of NewYork be a commercial regtilation, affecting commerce,.'in respect to these great branches, then
a

I

ACom.27s. 4B. Con4'. 6(..

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the grant is void, whether any case of actual col- 1824.
lision had happened or not.
Gibbomns
But, he contended, in the second place, that
T.
Ogden.
wholly
as
regarded
be
to
were
grant
the
whether
void or not, it must, at least, be inoperative, when
the rights claimed under it came in collision with
other rights, enjoyed and secured under the laws
of the United States; and such collision, he maintained, clearly existed in this case. It would not
be denied that the law of Congress was paramount. The constitution has expressly provided
for that. So that the only question in this part of
the case is, whether the two rights be inconsistent
with each other. The appellant had a right to
go from New-Jersey to New-York, in a vessel,
owned by' himself, of the proper legal description,
and enrolled and licensed according to law. This
right belonged to him as a citizen of the United
States. It was derived under the laws of the
United States, and no act of the Legislature of
New-York can deprive him of it, any more than
such- act could deprive him of the right of holding"
lands in that State, or of suing in its Courts. It
appears from the record, that the boat in question
was regularly enrolled, at Perth Amboy, and properly licensed for carrying on the coasting trade.
Under this enrolment, and with this license, she*
was proceeding to New-York, when she was stopped by ihe injunction of the Chancellor, on the
application of the New-York grantees. There.
can be no doubt that here is a collision, in fact;
that which the appellant claimed as a right, the
respondent resisted; and there remains nothing

CASES IN THE SUPREME

1824.
Gb
Gibbons

v,
Ogden.

COURT

now but to determine, whether the appellant had,
as he contends, a right to navigate these waters;
because, if he had such right, it must prevail.
Now, this right was expressly conferred by the
laws of the United States. The first section of
the act of February, 1793, c. 8. regulating the
coasting trade and fisheries, declares, that all ships
and vessels, en'olled and licensed as that act provides, " and no others, shall be deemed ships or
vessels of the United States, entitled to the privileges of ships or vessels employed in the coasting trade or fisheries." The fourth section of
the same declares, ." that in order to the licensing
of any ship or vessel, for carrying on the coasting
trade or fisheries," bond shall be given &c. according to the provisions of the act. . And the
same section declares, that the owner having complied with the requisites o'f the law, " it shall be
the duty-of the Collector to grant a license for ,,arrying on the coasting trade ;" and the act proceeds
to give the form and words of the license, which
is, therefore, of course, to be received as a part
of the act; and the words of the license, aft'
the necessary recitals, ate, " license is hereby
granted.for the said vessel to be employed in carrying on the coasting trade."
Words could not make this authority more ex
press.
The Court. below seemed to him, with great
deference, to have mistaken the object and nature
of the license. It seemed to have been of opinion
that the license had no other intent or effect than
to ascertain the ownership and character of thd

01' THE UI.NI''ED S"ATLS.

vessel. But this was the peculiar office and object

1824.

of the enrolment. That document ascertains Gibbons
v.
that the regular proof of ownership and character
Ogden.
conto
given,
is
license
the
and
given;
been
has
fer the right, to which the party has shown himself entitled. It is the authority which the master
carries with him, to prove his right to nayigate
freely the waters of the United States, and to
carry on the coasting trade.
In some of the discussions which had been
Jiad on this question, it had been said, that Congress had only provided for ascertaining the ownership and property of vessels, but had not prescribed to what use they might be applied. But
this 1-. thought an obvious error; the whole object
of the act regulating the coasting trade, was to
declare what vessels shall" enjoy the benefit of
being used in the coasting trade. To secure this
use to certain vessels, and to deny it to others,
was precisely the purpose Rbr which the act was
passed. The error, or what he humbly supposed
to be the error, in the judgment of the Court below, eonsisted in that Court's having thought, that
although Congress might act, it had not yet acted,
in such a way as to confer a rigi.t on the appellant: whereas, if a right was not given by this
law, it never could be given; no law could be
more express. It had been adgiitted, that supposing there was a provision in the act of Congress, that all vessels duly licensed should be at
liberty to navigate, for the purpose of trade and
commerce, over all the navigable harbours, bays,
rivers and -lakes, within the several States, any

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

1824.

law of the States, creating particular privileges as
Gibbons to any particular class of vessels, to the contrary
.
notwithstanding, the only question that could arise,
Ogden. in such a case, would be, whether the
law was
constitutional; and that if that was to be granted
or decided, it would certainly, in all Courts and
places, overrule and set aside the Stat6 grant.
Now, he did not see that such supposed case
could be distinguished from the present. We
show a provision in an act of Congress, that all
vessels, duly licensed, may carry on the coasting
trade; nobody doubts the bonstitutional validity
of that law; and we show that this vessel was
duly licensed according to its provisions. This is
all that is essential in the case supposed. The
,presence or absence of a non obstante clause,
cannot affect the extent or operation of the act of
Congress. Congress has no power of revoking
State laws, as a distinct power. It legislates over
subjects; and over those subjects which are within
its power, its legislation is supreme, and necessarily overrules. all inconsistent or repugnant State
,legislation. If Congress were to-pass an act expressly revoking or annulling, in whole or in part;
this New-York grant, such an'act would be wholly
useless and inoperative. If:the New-York grant
be oppbsed to, or inconsistent with, any constitutional power which Congress has exercised, then,
so far as the incompatibility exists, the grant is
nugatory and void, necessarily, and by reason of
the supremacy of the law of Congress. But if
the grant be not inconsistent with any exercise of
the powers of Congress, then, certainly, Con-

OF THE UNITED STATES

gress has no authority to revoke or annul it. Such 1824.
an act of Congress, therefore, would be• either Gibbow
unconstitutional or supererogatory. The laws of
v.
Congress need- no non obstante clause. The Ogdox.
constitution makes them supreme, when State
laws come into, opposition, to thegn; so that in
these cases there is no question except this, Aihether there be, or be not, a repugnancy or hostility
between the law of Congress and the law of the
State. Nor is it at all material, in this view, whotier the law of the State be a law regulating commerce, or a law of police, or by whatever other
name or character it may be designated. If its
provisions be inconsistent with an act of Congress,
they are void, so far as that inconsistency extends.
The whole argument, therefore, is substantially
and clibetually given up, when it is admitted, that
Congress might, by express terms, abrogate the
State grant, or declare that it should not stahd in
the way of its own legislation; because, such express terms would add nothing to the effect and
operation of an act of Congress.
lie contended, therefore, u'ton the whole of
this point, that a case of actual collision had been
made out, in this cage, -between*the state grant
and the act- of Congress; and as the act of Congress was entirely unexceptionable, and clearly in
pursuance of its constitutional powers, the State
grant must yield.
There were other provisions of the constitutior
of the United States, which had more or less
fbearing on. this.questiqn: "No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any dtuty nf ton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
\Z0Vf/
0ibbons

V.
Ogden.

nage." Under colour of grants 'like this, that
prohibition might be wholly evaded. 'This grant
authorizes Messrs. Livingston and Fulton to iicese uavigation in the waters of New-York.
They, of course, license it on their own terms.
They may require a pecuniary consideration, ascertained by the tonnage of the vessel, or in any
other manner.' Probably, in fact, they govern
themselves, in this respect, by the size ar tonnage
of.the vessels, to which they grant licenses. Now,
what is this but substantially a tonnage duty, under
the law of the State? Or does it make any dlfference, whether the receipts go directly to her
own treasury, or to the hapds of those to whom
she has made the grant ?
There was, lastly, that provision of the constitution which gives Congress power to promote the
progress of science and the useful arts, by securing to authors and inventors, for a limited time,
an exclusive right to their own writings and discoveries. Congress had exercised this power,
and made all the provisions which it deemed useful or necessary. The States might, indeed, like
munificent individuals, exercise their own bounty
towards authors and inventors,, at their own discretion. But to confer reward by exclusive grants,
even if it were but a part, 6f the use of the writing
or invention, was not supposed to be a power
properly to be exercised by the States. Much less
could they, under the notion, of conferring rewards in such cases, grant monopolies, the enjoyment of which should be essentially iaoompatible
with the exercise of rights holden under the laws

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the United States. He should insist, however, .1824.
the less on these points, as they were• open to %
Gibbons
V.
counsel, who would come aftvr him, on the same
Ogden..
aiwhat
upon
much
so
side, and as he bad said
peared to him the-more important and interesting
part of the argument.
Mr. Oakly, for the respondent, stated, that
there were some general principles applicable to
this subject, which might be assumed, or which
had been settled by the decisions of this Court,
and which had a~quired the force of maxims of
political law. Among these was the principle,
that the States do not derive their independence
and sovereignty, from the grant or concessiofi of
the British crown, but from their own act in the
declaration of independence. By this act, they
became " free and independent States," and as
such, " have full power to levy war, conclude
peace, contract alliances, establish commerce,
and to do all other acts and things which independent States may of right-do." The State of NewYork, having thus become sovereign and independent, formed a constitution, by which the "supreme legislative power" was vested in its Legislature: and there are no restrictions on that power,
which in any manner relate to the present controversy. On the other hand, the constitution of the
United States is .one of limited and expressly delegated powers, which can only be exercised as
granted, or in the cases enumerated." This prina l'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. Rep. 405.

Per Makshall,

C. I. Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. Rep. 48. Per Story, I
5
VOL. IX.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

124.

ciple, which distinguishes the national from the
Gibbons SState governments, is derived from the nature of
the constitution itself, as being a delegation of
v.
:gden-. power, and not a restriction of power previously
possessed; and from the express stipulation in
the 10th amendment, that "the powers not delegated to the United States by the constitution,
nor prohibited by it to the States, arc reserved to
the States respectively, or to the people." The
national constitution must, therefore, be construed
strictly, as regards the powers expressly granted,
and the objects to which those powers are to be
applied. As it is a grant of power in derogation
of State sovereignty, every portion of power, not
granted, must remain in the State Legislature."
These principles are all founded on the doctrine, that a strict rule of construction, must be
applied, in ascertai~ing the extent and object of
those powers which are expressly delegated. The
powers delegated are of two classes: such as are
expressly granted, and such as are implied, as
"nevessary and proper" to carry into execution
the, powers expressly enumerated. As to these
implied powers, the constitution must be construed
liberally, as respects their nature and extent:
because the constitution implies that rule, by not
undertaking to enumerate these powers, and because the grant of these powers is general and
unlimited. But this rile has one exception:
When the meansof executing any expressly granta TAe Federalist,No. 82. Hotiston v. Moore, 5 IwPshat. R p.
48, Per Story, J.

OF THE UNITED STATE°

ed power are particularly enumerated, then no
other mode of executing that power can be implied or used by Congress, since the constitution
itself determines what powers .are "necessary and
proper" in that given case.
The e delegated powers, whether express or
implied, are, (1.) those which are exclusively vest-

.ed in the United States; and, (2.) those which are
concurrentin the United States and the respective
States.
It is perfectly settled, that an affirmative grant
of power to the United States does not, of itself,
devest the States of a like power." The authorities cited settle this question, and it is no longer
open for discussion in this Court.
The powers vested exclusively in Congress are,
(1.) Those which are granted in express terms.
(2.) Those which are granted to the United States,
and expressly prohibited to the States. (3.) Those
which are exclusive in their nature..
All powers, exclusive mn their nzature, may be
included under two heads: (1.) Those which have
their origin in the constitution, and where the object of them did not exist previous to the Uinion.
These may be called strictly national powers.
(2.) Those powers which, by other provisions in
the constitution, have an effect and operation,
when exercised by a State, without or beyond the
territorial limits of the State.
a Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Yheat. Rep. 193. Per Marshall, C. J. Houston v. Moore, 5 1Pneat. Rep. 15. 17. Per
Washington; J; Id. 45. Per Johnson, J. Id. 48. Per StoryJ.

1824.
Gibbonw

V.

Oden,.

CA6ES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

As examples of the first class, may be inon.

G
Gibbons

tioned, the " power to borrow money on the oredit of the United States." Here the object of the
power, (to borrow money for the use of the Uni-

v.
Ogden.

ted States,) and the means of executing it, (by
pledging their credit,) have their origin in the
Union, and did not previously exist. So .as to the
power " to establish tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court," the same remark will apply.
Of the second class, the power " to establish
an uniform rule of naturalization," is an instance.
This power was originally in the States, and was
extensively exercised by them, and would now be
concurrent, except for another provision in the
constitution, that " citizens of each State shall
be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several States."" It is not held to
be exclusive, from the use of the term "uniform
rule." This Court has held, that the use of an
analogous term, "uniform laws," in respect to the
associated subject of bankruptcy, docs not imply
an exclusive power in Congress over that subject.'
The true reason why the power of establishlng an
uniform rule of naturalization is exclusive, musi
be, that a person becoming a citizen in one State.,
would thereby become a citizen of another, perhaps even contrary to its laws, and the power thus
exercised would operate beyond the limits of the
.Atate.
As to concurr'ent powers: it is highly important
a Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. Rep. 268, 269.
b Sturees v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. Rep. 193.

01" THE UNITED STATES.

to hold all powers concurrent, where it can be 1824.
done without violating the plain
• - letter of the con- Gibohs
stitution. All these powers are essential to State
v.
Oqemthe
for
exercised
constantly
are
and
sovereignty,
good of the Stite. These powers can be best
exercised by the State, in relation to all its internal concerns, connected with the -objects of the
power. All powers, therefore, not expressly exelusive, or clearly exclusive in their nature, ought
to be deemed concurrent. All implied powers
are, of course, concurrent. It has never yet been
contended, that powers implied as necessary and
proper to carry into effect an exclusive power, are
themselves exclusive. Such a doctrine would deprive the States almost entirely of sovereignty, as
these implied powers must inevitably be very numerous, and must embrace a wide field of legislation.
So also, all enumeratedpowers are to be considered
concurrent,unless they clearly fall under the head
of exclusive: either as being granted, in terms,
exclusively to the United States, or as expressly
prohibited to the States, or as being exclusive in
their nature, as before explained.
A power exclusive in its nature, is said to be
Tepugnant and contradictory to a like power in
the States. This repugnancy exists only in cases
where a State cannot legislate, in any manner, or
under any circumstances, under a given power,
without conflicting with some existing act of Congress, or with some provision of the constitution.
Thus, it is laid down by the commentators on the
constitution, that "the power granted to the. Union
is exclusive, wherf the existence of a siiiilar power

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
ibbons
Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

in the States would be absolutely and totally contradictory and repugnant." "Or where an authority is granted to the Union, with which a similar authority in the State would be utterly incompatible." And again: " It is not a mere possibility of inconvenience in the exercise of powers, but an immediate constitutionalrepugnancy,
that can, by implication, alienate and extinguish a
pre-existing right of sovereignty."o These strong
expressions show that the repugnancy of power
to power must be such, as to produce actual interference and conflict, under all circumstances, and
in all cases, in which the power is exercised by the
two governments: or, in other words, must be
such that the States can pass no law on the subject matter of the power, without contravening
the express provisions o the constitution; or without actually interfering -ith the operati6n of some
statute of Congress. These terms are used by
the author of the papers from which they are
quoted, to distinguish those cases of absolute repugfiancy from others, " where the exercise of a
concurrent jurisdiction might be pro-ductive of occasional interference in the poliay of any branch
of administration, but would not imply any direct
contradiction or repugnancy in point of constitu'tional authority. ' The same principle has been
adopted by this Court on several occasions.'
a lhe Pederalist, No. 32.
b Id. No. 82.
c Id. No. 82.
d Id. No. 32.
e M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. Rep. 425.

Per Marshal,

C. J. Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. Rep. 49. Per Store 3.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

It appears, then, that the repugnancy.which 1824.
makes ipower exclusive, must be clear,' direct, Gibbons
V.
positive, and entire. It cannot be a matter of
speculation or theory, but must be practical: not Ogden.
a repugnancy that may arise in some "exercise of
tbe power by both governtdents; but one that
,mustarise, in any exercise of such power, which
is attempted by the States. To ascertain, then,
whether any given power be concurrent, we must
inquire, (1.) Whether it was possessed. by the
States, previous to the constitution, as appertaining to their sovereignty? (2.) Whether it is granted, in exclusive terms, to the Union? (3.) Whether
it is granted to the Union, and prohibited in express terms to the States? (4.) Whether.it is exclusive in its nature, either as operating, when exercised by the States, without their territorial limits,
and upon other parts of the Union; or as having
its origin and creation in the Union itself; or as
being so entirely repugnant, that no exercise of
it can take place by the States, without actual conflict with the constitution of the Union, in its practical operation and effects.
All concurrent powers may be divided into two
classes: (1.) Those where, from their nature,
when Congress has acted on the subject matter,
the States cannot legislate at all in any degree.
(2.) Those where the States may legislate, though
Congress has previously legislated on the same
subject matter.
The first class includes those instances where
-any act of Congress covers the whole ground of
legislation, and exhausts the subjects on which it

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

acts.

G
Gibbons

weights and measures.

V.
Ogden.

Such is the power to fix the standard of
Here, when the standard

of any particular weight or measure is fixed by
Congress, the whole power is executed as to that
particular; and so far the power of the States is at
an end. But, until Congress does this, itcannot
be doubted that a State may act on the subject;
and if the laws of Congress apily only to some
weights and measures, all others are subject to
State regulation. Thus, New-York has long had
a law to regulate weights and measures, which
establishes the English standard for that State,
"until Congress shall establish the standard for
the United States."a So, also, the power to regulate the value of foreign coin. An act fixing the
value of any species of coin, necessarily disposes
of the whple power as to that species. They are
both instances in which, when Congress has
acted at all, there immediately arises that entire
and absolute repugnancy, and that utter incompatibility, which exclude the States from all power
over the subject.
The second class of concurrent powers contains
those in which, from their nature, various regulations may be made, without any actual collision in
practice. These are, those where the power may
be exercised on different subjects ; or on the same
subject, in different modes; qr where the object,
of the power admits of various independent regulations, which may Ollerate together. In all those
cases, the State may legislate, though Congress
a I R. L. c. so. s. s6.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

has legislated under the same power. This resuits from the very nature of" concurrent po*er.
Each party possessing the power, may of cours&
use it. Each being sovereign as to thG power,
may use it in any form, and in relation to any
subject; and to guard against a conflict in practice,
the law of Congress is made supreme.
The provision, that the law of Congress shall
be the supreme law in such cases, is the ground
of a conclusive inference, not only that there are
concurrent powers, but that those powers may be
exercised by both governmerts at the same time.
One law cannot be said to be superior to another,
and to control it, unless it acts in a manner inconsistent with and repugnant to that other. The
question of supremacy, therefore, can never arise,
unless in cases of actual conflict or interference.
If the mere exercise of a power by Congress
takes away all right from the -State to act under
that power, then any State law, under such a
power, would be void; not as conflicting with the
supreme law of Congress, but as being repugnant
to the provisions pf the constitution itself, and as
being passed by the State, in the first instance,
without authority. If this doctrine were true,
then the provision that the laws of Congress should
be supreme, was entirely idle. It would have
been sufficient to have said merely, that the
constitution should be supreme.0 These positions
a Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. Rep.. 195, 196.

Per

Marshall, C. J. Houstoir v. Moore, 5 Wheat. Ret. 34. 45. Per
Johnson, J. Id. 49, 50. 55. Per Story, J. Livingston v. Vitt
Ingeo, 9 Jolns.Rep. 575, 576. Per Thompson, 3.
MOL.. IX.6

1824.
Gibtn*
I.

CASES IN'THE SUPREMN

CQURT

are all supported by the judgments of this Court,
and of other Courts whose authority deserves to
*W. be respected.
Ogden.
From this mass of authority, and the reasons oil
1824.

which it is founded, it results, (1.) That a State
may legislate in all cases of concurrent power,
though Congress has acted under the same powf?
and upon the same subject. matter. (2.) That the
question of supremacy cannot arise, except in the
case of actual and practical collision. (30) That
such collisi6n must be direct and positive, ond the
State law must operate to limit, restrict, or defeat, the effect of a statute of Congress. (4.) That
in such case, the ,State law yields in those particularsi, in which such actual collision arises, but
remains valid in all other respects.
The States have, accordingly, acted upon this
construction to a great extent: Thus, the power
to lay and collect tazes, is admitted on all hands
to be concurrent. It is constantly exorcised by
the States, in every form, and both real and personal estate have frequently been taxed by the
national and local governments, at the same time.
So, under'the power to lay. and collect excises, the
same article has frequently been taxed by both
governments. And the power to lay imposts, o
duties on exports, and imports, and tonnage, 'Ialso
concurrent, except that no State can lay any duty
on imports and exports, or duty of tonnage, unless.
such as are absolutely necessary for executing it.
inspection laws. So, also, the power to provide
for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities
and current coin of the United States, is a power

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which may be exercised by the States. A State
may make it an offence to counterfeit the coin of
any foreign country within its territory. Thus,
New-Yoik hds- provided for the punishment of
counterfeiting " atiy of the species of gold or silver coins, now current, or hereafter to be current
ih this State."a And Congress has provided for
the punishment of counterfeiting "any gold or silver coin of the United States," or of any "foreign
gold or silver coins, which, by law, now are, or
hereafter shall be made current, or be in actual
use and circulation as money, within the United
States." New-York has punished the counte
feiting of "any promissory note, for the payment
of money," including notes made by any body
corporate ;C and under this the counterfeiting of
the notes of the bank of the United States is
punished. Congress has punished the same offence in the law incorporating the bank of the
United States.' In all these acts of Congress,
relating to coins and bank notes, it is provided,
"that nothing in them contained shall be so construed as to deprive the Courts of the individual
States of jurisdiction, under the laws of the several States, over any offence made punishable by
these acts." This shows that Congress considered
the power to punish these offences as concurrent,
and that it could be exercised by the Sthtes on the
a 1R. L. p. 406. s. 5.6.
b 4 L. U.S.67.
c IR.L. 404.
d4L. U.S.91. 61d. 47.

1824.
Gibbong

V.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUiT

1824.
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

ground of their own inherent authority, as it is
held that Congress cannot delegate any part of
the criminal jurisdiction of the United States to
the State tribunals.' Again: the power to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the
militia, is a concurrent power, according to the
same principles' But the States have been in
the constant habit of superadding to the regulations of Congress, additional provisions, suited
to cheir own views and local circumstances.' Those
inRtances, which might be greatly multiplied, show
the practical. construction put, both by Congress
and the State Legislatures, upon these concurrent
powers.
The learned counsel here recapiiulated the principles laid down, and proceeded to apply-them to
the discussion of the cause, which he divided into
two branches. (1.) The supposed repugnancy
of the laws of New-York to the power of Congress on the subject of patents and copy-rights.
(2.) Their supposed conflict with the power of
Congress to regulate commerce.
As to the first, the words of the constitution
are, " Congress shall have power to promote the
progress of science and the useful arts, by securing, for limited times, to authors and inventors,
the exclusive right to their'respective writings and
discoveries."
a Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. Rep. 69. Per Story, J.
b Id. 51.
c 1 Ii. L. of N. Y. 216.
7Vennstlvania, 320.

Laws of Georgia, 468, 6 Lw of

OF-THE UNITED STATES.

This power -is concurrmnt, according to all the 1824.
principles before laid down. It is clearly a power Gibbons
v.
appertaining to sovereignty, and, as such, vested
in the Legislature of New-York, before the for- Ogden.
mation of the United States' constitution. A power
to promote science and the useful arts, is highly
important to every civilized society. It embraces
all the means of education, and all kinds of mechanical labour and improvements. It is .constantly exercised by all governments, as a sovereign authority, by laws for the promotion of education in all its branches, by bounties for the encouragement of discoveries and new methods of
business, and by the grant of exclusive rights and
privileges for the same end. It has frequently
been exercised by the State of New-York, and
by other States, before the adoption of the constitution. It is not granted exclusively to Congress.
No exclusive terms are used. The grant is affirmative and general, like all the other powers.
There is no express prohibition upon the States
against the exercise of it. Nor is it exclusive
in its nature. It does not owe its existence or
creation to the Union. When exercised by a State,
it does not operate in any manner beyond the territorial jurisdiction of that State. From its nature,
it admits of a great variety of regulations, both
by local and general laws, which may exist harmoniously together. Being thus -a concurrent
power, it follows, according to the principles already established, that the State may exercise it
at all times, and in every mode, until an actual
and practical conflict arises between a right exer-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
Gibbons

v.

ogden,

cised under a statute of Congress, and the same
right claimed to be exercised under the State.
The power, as granted in the constitution, is a
limited power, It is a clear principle, that when
the means of executing any given power are
specified in the grant, Congress cannot take, by
implication, any other means, as being necessary
and prdper to carry that power into execution.
This power, then, is limited: (1.) As tw the persons and the objects 4n regard to which it may-be
exercised: these are, " authors and inventors,
writings and discoveries." This enumeration excludes all right in Congress to legislate on the
subject of any improvement, which is not an
" inyention," either domestic or foreign. It excludes also all right to legislate for the benefit of
any person who is not himself the " inventor."
(2.) As to the means of executing. the power, and
the time during which those means may be exercised. They are by "securing the exclusive right
for limited times."
The power, considered in itself, is supreme,
unlimited, and plenary. No part of any sovereign
power can be annihilated. Whatever portion,
then, of this power, was not granted to Congress,
remains in the States. Consequently, the States
have exclusive authority to promote science and
the arts, by all other modes than those specified
in the constitution, without limitation as to time,
person, or object; and the Legislature is the sole
judge of the expediency of any law on the subject.
But this power, though limited in Congress,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is still (as has been seen)- concurrent in the States. 1824.
It follows, then,• from -all the principles before
bbo m
V.
laid down relative to the exercise of concurrent
Ogden.
same
the
by
it
may'exercise
State
a
that
powers,.
means, and towards the same persons and objects
with Congress. A State. may, therefore, grant
patents and copy-fights, which would spcure to
the inventqrs and authors, the benefit of their discoveries and writings, within the limits of the
State. In such cases, the citizens-of other States
might use the invention, or publish the book at
pleasure. But if a patent or copy-right should be
obtained under the law of Congress, the right
under the State grant would cease as gainst that
of the United States. Suppose the :Luthor or inventor does not apply fo a patent or copy-right
from the United States, or is willing to secure the
exclusive right within any one State only, and
leave the invention common in every other part ot
the Union; may not that one State secure the
right within its own territory? This question may
be answered by seeing how far Congress has exercised the power. An examination of the different patent laws will show, that Congress has,
in various particulars, omitted to exercise the entire power given to them by the constitution. Thus,
by several of these laws, the right 'of'obtaining a
patent is .confined to citions, and,, consequently,
the power of granting patents to aliens, is left to
the States. The whole power is inoperative, unil Congress acts under it by legislating: and the
'law itself is inoperative until some person obtains
a patent. "Inevery case, therefore, the power is

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1i24.
V.
odgw

unexecuted until a patent is actually granted.
The State may consequently act in all cases.
But Congress has confined its statutes to case'
of -invention, as the constitution directs. Where
then is the power to reward or encourage the introduction of useful machines or inventions from
abroad? or, the establishment of any art, whe.
invented at home, and the discoverer does not
apply for a patent? or, where the invention is given
to.the public, and great expense must be incurred
to put it into use? All these things appertain to
sovereignty. Congress has no power over them.
The power, being sovereign, must exist somewhere,.and is, therefore, exclusively in the States.
If the nature of the power which is given to Congress be examined, it will be found that it confers no authority to create or grant any right or
property. It is clearly founded on the presumption, that the right or property may exist, independent of the power. Thus, one of the comnntators on the constitution says, " The copyright of authors has been solemnly adjudged, in
Great Britain, to be a right at common law. The
rigl~t to useful inventions seems, with equal reason, to belong to the inventor "n The adjudication here referred to, is that of Millar v. Taylor,b
where it was held, that the author of any book
has the sole right of first printing and publishing
it, but that the iight was controlled by the provisions of the stat. 8 Ann, -relative to copy-rights.
a-The PederaHst, No. 43.
b 4 Dur.2408.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

But, the common law of England was the law of 1824.
New-York, at the adoption of the national consti- Gibbon
v.
tution. There was no statute of New-York simiOgden.
exright
the
course,
of
and,
lar to that of Ann,
isted there, without the security for its enjoyment,
provided by that statute. The right, also, was
local, and confined to the territorial jurisdiction of
the State. The policy and object of the constitution was, to secure the right co-extensively with
the Union. Its exercise in any .one State, might
be affected in its operation by the pirating of books
and inventions in the adjoining States, and that
evil could only-be corrected by the national Legislature. The right, therefore, in any one State,
was imperfect only as to the security and the
means of enjoyment.
It appears, then, that the power is founded on
the basis of a pre-existing right of property, from
the nature and origin of the right, as before stated,
.and from the terms in .which*the power itself is
granted. The word." secure," implies the existence of something to be secured. It does not purport to create or give any new right, but only to
secure and provide remedies to enforce a preexisting right throughout the Union. This power
differs essentially from the sovereign power to
create and grant an exclusive right. It has been
adjudged, under the English stat. 21 Jac. I. a. 3.
that a grant may be made for any invention which
is new in England, though known abroad.a That
statute, therefore, authorizes the creation of a right
a 3 WcatLPy
Re. 41p. p. 15..

VorAM

- -

7

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
'Gibbons
V.
Ogden.

of property in a thing imported, in which no right
of property, under the laws of England, before
existed. But the patent laws of the United States
merely extend to inventions actually made iiA the
United States, and not to any imported invention.
The whole extent of the sovereign power, exercised by the British Parliament, on this subject,
was vested in the Legislature of New-York. A
part only was given to Congress, and all the residue remains in the State exclusively.
What then is the effect of a patent? It creates
no new right. It secures the patentee, for a limited time, the exclusive right to his invention; so
that he has the sametexclusive right in it, that he
has in any other kind of property. His right,
however, is secured more extensively than any
State law could secure it. But, within the limits
of the State, a pateqt under the local law would
be just as effectual. What is the situation of the
right, after the expiration of a patent ? The
right under the common law of the State, may
be considered as perpetual. It was so ruled by
the Judges in Millarv. Taylor; but it was determined in the House of Lords, that the perpetuity
of the right was controlled and limited by the
statute of Ann. There is no such statute in NewYork, and, therefore, the right remains as at
common law. The act of Congress cannot destroy the perpetuity of a right held under the law
of New-York, and which the act of Congrep has
only secured for-a certain time, to a greater extent, and by means of more effectual remedies.
The right, then, remains, at the expiratiou of.the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

patent, in the same condition as at its commence- 1824.
'
'
ment, so, far as regards the laws of New-York, Gibbons
v.
and within the territorial limits of that State, but
cannot be asserted in othei States. Even if this Ogden.
were not so, and it should be considered that the
right becomes common, at the expiration of the
patent, then it is like all other common rights,
subject to the control of the municipal laws of the
State. It is of the essence of. sovereignty to control and regulate all comon rights. The Legislature, possessing " supreme legislative power,"
may. destroy a common right, either by abolishing
it, and prohibiting the use of it.altogether, or by
converting it into an exclusive right. Thus, a
right of way may be common, either by land or
water, and it may be shut up. by law, and the use
of it prohibited. So, a right of fishery, in navigable waters, is common, and it may be prohibited
altogether, or converted into a 'several fishery.
In the same manner, as, to patent rights and literary productions: if, after a patent or copy-right
has expired, the right to use or publish becomes
common, it may be controlled by law, and turned
into a private right. So that a State law may
continue or extend a patent-right at pleasure.
Thus, it follows, that whether the right of the
patentee remains in him,- after the expiration of
his patent, at common law, or whether its use becomes common to all, it is subject to the State
law, in the same mainer, and to the same extent,
as all other rights, and may, consequently, be controlled, litnited, extended. or prohibited, at the
pleasure of the Legislature.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
"~'
Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

But the State may control or prohibit the use of
any patented thing, during the existence of the
c
patent. If an inventor,
do not apply for a patent
for the invention, no other man can. The right
of the inventor, in such a case, remains as at common law. Every -right or kind of property, created by the laws of the State, is subject to be controlled and regulated by the supreme legislative
power of the State. It cannot then be doubted,
that before a patent is obtained, the State may
prohibit the use of the thing invented ; either on
the ground that it is mischievous in itself, or from
motives of general policy, that it is inexpedient
to permit it. As, if it interferes with any general
interest, as a labour saving machine, which might
deprive great numbers of their ordinary means of
subsistence: or, if it should effect any great change
in the course of business, which the Legislature
might deem injurious, as it relates to the commuDity. Of these questions of general policy, and of
the expediency of any such prohibition, .the Legislature must, of course, be the sole judge. Thus,
in the act of New-York, to incorporate the North
River Steam-boat Company, the corporation is prohibited from using any of its boats for the purpose
of carrying freight. This was done to protect. the
great shipping interest employed in the navigation
of the Hudson River. Would this exercise of
power be affected by the obtaining bf a patent?
-The object and effect of a patent is, (as we have
seen,) to secure a pre-existing right, iinperfect as
to its means of enjoyment and its extent. The
patentee obtains nothing by his grant, except an

OF THE UNITED STATES.

exclusive right, as it relates to the Union, instead 1824.
of a right limited to the State, together with more Gibbons
V.
complete and certain remedies to protect and enforce that right. If, therefore, he could not use Ogden.
the thing invented, against the State law, before
it is patented, neither can he thus use it after it is
.patented, for his grant conveys no greater right
than before existed. It is the undoubted attribute
of all sovereignty, to regulate and control -the use
of all property. A thing patented, when made
and put in use, is nothing more than property;
and, like all other property, is subject to the control of the sovereign power, as to the right to use
it. There can be no doubt that it may sometimes
become important or necessary to the welfare of
society, to regulate or prohibit the use of a thing
patented. Congress calnnot do this, or, at least,
it has not done it. After the patent is granted,
the power of Congress over the subject matter is
exhausted. Patented things may be dangerous
or noxious, either universally so in every part of
the country, or locally; or, they may be useful at
one time; and mischievous and noxious at another.
Patented manufactures may be injurious "to the
publhi health, though highly useful. as manufadtures; or they may be nuisances to private individuals and neighbourhoods, though extremely useful to the public. Can Congress provide by its
laws for the abatement of a public nuisance? or
give a right of action to afn individual for a private nuisance? .If not, these powers must reside
inthe States. The right to use all property, must
be subject to modification by municipal law. Sic

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
-Gibbons
V.
Ogden.

utere tuo ut alienum non ldas, is a fundamental maxim. It belongs exclusively to the local
State Legislatures, to determine how a man may
use his own, without injuring his neighbour. Can
a patent give rights, by which a patentee may infringe the vested rights of others? Can a patented
boat be used on a ferry, the exclusive use of which
has been granted by a State law?
This argument may be illustrated by the power
to secure to authors the exclusive right to their
works'. This power is founded on the same reasons with the other, and gives the author the same
rights as the inventor. Can the author, by virtue
of his copy-right, publish against the prohibition
of State law? A book may be libellous, or blasphemous, or obscene. Cannot the author be indicted and punished for it? May not a citizen
maintain an action for the libel? If so, it cannot
be lawful by virtue of the copy-right. If iho
State can punish the act of publishing, it may
entirely prohibit the publication. It may regulato
and restrain the press, so far as it is not prohi.
bited by its own constitution.
The laws of Congress are framed on the supposition that the power to prohibit remains in the
States. By the existing statute, they have not
provided that any inquiry shall be made as to the
utility of the supposed invention, when the patent
is applied for. There is no authority to refuse a
patent, on the ground of the inutiliiy of the invention, and in practice, no inquiry is ever made,
and patents issue, of course, on making the oaths
and paying the fees, even for things the most

OF THE* UNITED STATES.

triflingy absurd, and injurious. There is no pro- 1824.
vision for the repeal of a patent, on the ground of Gibbons
v.
its noxious or useless character. The law does
not purport, in. its terms, to give a right to use Ogden.
the-thing patented, against the provisions of any
State law. The act provides, (s. 1.) that if any
person shall present a petition, "signifying a desire of obtaining an excl=
e procperty," &c.
then a patent shall issue, granting.to the petitibner
":the full and exclusive right and -liberty *of making, constructing; using, and vending to others
to be used,": the thing patented. The " exclusive property" spoken of, is only the same property that exists in any thing else, and, of itself,
gives no. right ti use the thing against the State
law, any more than in the case of any other property. The words "using, and vending to others
to be used," are inserted to make the description
of that "exclusive property" complete. The words
"making, constracting, and vending," would not
have constituted entire property in the thing, as
one -might make and vend, and all the world might
use. The patentee's right of property might thus
he greatly invaded, and he would be left without
remedy, except against the" maker..' The word
"using," in the act, must receive this limited con.
struction, or the law of Congress goes beyond the
power in the constitution. That was only to "secure" a right,, and meant nothing more than that
-a patentee sh6uld enjoy it alone, if any body was
perpitted to enjoy it. Bfit it was never intended
thatPthe jatentde should set the State laws at defiance. The acts relative to copy-rights, strongly

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
Gibbons

,'.

Ogden.

support this position. Those acts contain no provision to ascertain the character of the books or
engravings to be published, and whether they be
such as may be safely permitted, consistently with
the good order of society and public morals.
They grant the same right to the author, as the
patent grants to the inventor. In both cases, they
depend on the same constitutional right, and only
convey a right to prevent others from using or publishing without his consent, but not to enable him
to use or publish without restraint.
If a State can thus control a right to use a thing
patented, directly, it may do it indirectly. If by
a positive law, then, through the agency of the
Courts, by injunction or otherwise. Or, the right
to prohibit the use of it may be delegated to individuals, either acting as public agents, or in their
own behalf. to protect some other right vested in
them; and may forbid the use of the thing patented,
or the publication of the book, the copy-right of
which has been secured, without their license. So
that if an exclusive grant be made by a Statelaw to
an individual, with a provision that the thing grantcd shall not be used in the State, without license of
the grantee, and there be a patent under the act
of Congiess for the'same thing, the consequence
would be, that the State grantee could not use it,
because it would be a violation of the patent, and
the patentee could not, without the license of the
State grantee, because the State law prohibited
him. Thus, the State lawwould be inoperative, so
far as it granted the exclusive right; but valid,'so
far as it prohibited the use of the thing patented.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

These principles may be applied to the law now in
question, which gives an exchisive right, and forbids any person to use the thing which is the subject of the right, without the license of the persons
in whom it is vested. It contains a granting clause,
and a prohibiting clause. The injunction is founded on the prohibition, and may be enforced, though
the grantees might not use their right. Let it be
supposed that, from reasons of public policy,- the
laws of New-York had prohibited-the use of steam
boats entirely, and had directed the Court of Chancery to restraii them by injunction, would not the
prohibition have been a valid one ? and if so, may
not the State determine that it is against the public
interest, that steam boats should be built or navigated, unless under the direction, or with the license;
of an individual, who may be thought particularly
skilful in that business? Ii might, theiefore, be
contended, that this injunction is to be sustained,
whatever might become of the respondpnt's exclusive right.
A State may prohibit the use of a thing-patented, by virtue of its power over the public domai2.
A patented thing cannot be used on the private
property of an individual, without his consent.
The power of the State over the public property,
is, at least, equal to that of an individual over his
own; and particularly so, as to the navigable rivers in the State, 3,hich are, emphatically, the property of the people of the State, and subject to
their authority, acting through the local Legislature.
•The question has hitherto been discussed, as if
VOL. IX.

8

1824.
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

the exclusive right claimed by the respondents,
was the right to an invention, for which a patent
b
Gibbons
But in
Oge. may have been, or may yet be obtained.
Ogden; truth, his right is hot tothe use of any invention, or
of any thing for which a patent can'be granted.
Jivingston and Fulton do not, on the face of the
acts granting or securing the right, claim to be the
inventors of any thing. In the act of 1798, c. 55.
s. 21. it is recited, that R. R. L. "is the possesso
of a mode of applying the steam engine to the propelling of vessels, on new and advantageous principles." It is not alleged or pretended, that he
was the discoverer of that mode, or of the principles ofits application; or that the mode, or the
principles, were secret or unknown to the restof
the world. His right, therefore, is to the use of
an improvement, introduced (perhaps) from a foreign countiy, aii,, ,onsequently, not the subject
of a patent, and in respect to which Congress has
.no power'to legislate at all. On the other hand,
it does not appear, that the appellant has alpatent
for any thing connected with the subject of steam
boats, or for any thing belonging to the steam engine, which can be used in navigation by steam.
He can, therefore, claim no right, in this case, under -the patent. laits; and there is no question as
to. any actual conflict between the State right and
a patent right. He is, consequently, compelled to
rely upon the broad ground, that the State has no
power to legislate at all, for the encouragement of
any art or science, or for any improvement connected therewith, bcause Congress has legislated under a power which is partial-in its extent, both as
to objects and time

OF THE UNITEA STATES.

The result of all that has been said, tends to
establish, that the power in the constitution is strict-

1824.
'-'Gibbons

v.
ly a cbncurrent power. That it is also a limited
Ogden.
arts,
the
and
science
promote
to
power in Congress
by particular means, and in regard to particular.
objects, and for limited times. That all the residue of the power, to promote science and the arts,
by all other means, ahd towards all persons and
objects, and for unlimited times, remains exclusively in the States. That the States may legislate, in pursuance of this concurrent power, in all
cases, and can grant exclusive rights"to any'thing
which may be th6 subject of a patent, which will
be valid within their own territory until a patent
is actually issued under the authority.of the Union.
That when a patent i~sues%the State has full power to prohibit or control the use of it within its
territory, though it cannot grant the right to use
the patented thing to others. That it may exercise the power of prohibition, partially or totally,
by direct legislative acts, or through the medium of
its Courts, and may delegate the right to prohibit
to any'of its*citizens. That in the prqsent case,
-the right of prohibition has been delegated.to Livingston ind Fulton; and the mode of exercising
that right, is by injunction out of Chancery. That
this right of prohibition may be valid, even though
the grant of the exclusive right to use, &c., might
be invalid. That the State laws are, therefore,
valid, even on the supposition that the right granted by them, was to an invention which might be
patented; and that they would be valid, as to their
prohibitions, even were apatent issued for the same

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
bb
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

objept. But that, in truth; the right ih,question,
has no connection with any thing that -can be the
subject of a patent; and if it hasi that no patent
has, .infact, issued to the appellant, nor does he,
inany node, claim a right.under a patent. That
the question, therefore, on this branch of the cause,
is reduced to the inquiry, whether the State may
legislate under' a power, confessedly concurrent,
when Congress has not acted at all, or when ho
person sets up a rightunder any act of Congress.
But the laws of New-York, npw in question,
are supposed to be in conflict with the. constitutional power of Congress, "to regulate commerce
with foreign nations, among the several States,
and with thq Indian tribes."
This is a concurrent power, according to all
the principles before laid down. It was fully possessed by the States, after the declaration of independence, and Constantly exercised. It is one of
the attributes of sovereighty, specially designated
in that instrument, " to establish commerce." It
is not granted, in exclusive terms, to Congress.
It is not prohibited, generally, 'to the States. The
only express restraints upon the power of the
States, in this respect, are against laying any impost or, duty on imports or exportA, (except for the
execution of their own inspection, laws,) or of tonnage; against making any agreement or compact
with a foreign power; and against entering intb
any treaty. "All these prohibitions, being partial,
are founded on the supposition, that the whole
power resided in the States. They are, accordingly, all in restraint of State power. It is a clear

OF THE UNITED STATES.

principle of interpretation, that wflere a general 1824.
power is given, but not in exclusive terms, and Gibons
the States are restrained, in express terms, from
v.'
exercising that power in particular cases, that in O.de.
all other cases, the power remains in the States
as a concurrent power. Thus, the commentators
on the constitution, speaking of the taxing power,
say, "this restriction implies an admission- that,
if it were not inserted, the States would possess
the power it excludes. And it implies -a further
;dmission, that, as to all other taxes, the authority of the States remains undiminished."' And,
again: "In all cases in, which the restriction does
not apply, the States. would have a concurrent
power with the Union." This doctrine applies
precisely to the power to regulate commerce.
Laying imposts or duties of tonnage, is a part of
the power to, regulate commerce; and the making
of a compact or agreement with other States or
nations, iq the only method by vhich' a State
could make ayy commercial regulation, which, as
it regards its own citizens, would operate beyond
its territorial iEmits. These restrictions imply,
that the general power to regulate commerce, is
concurrently in the States, and that, it may be
exercised by the States in ai cases to which
these prohibitions do not extend. But, the
same implication is still stronger from the nature
anL terms of those prohibitory clauses. The
State may lay duties on imports and exports, to
execute its insection laws. That class of laws
a Vie Federast. No. 32.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Dand
Gibbous

v.

Ogden.

are, or may be, essential regulations of commerce,
they derive their authority altogether from
State power. The existence of a power to pass
them, is, therefore, expressly recognised by the
constitution. So, also, a State may lay any duty
up.n imports or exports, or of tonnage, with the
consent of Congress. This provision implies,
that the power -o lay all duties remains essentially
in the States; that the exercise of thev power is
suspended, until Congress consent; 6d that,
when-the consent is given, the State law acts of
itself, and by State. authority alone. The States
no where derive any powers from the constitution.
All its provisions are in restraint of their authority,
and the consent of Congress, in this instance
only removes the restraint. A State may not
enter into any treaty; but, with the consent of
Congress, may enter into an agreement or compact with another State, or with a foreign power.
A treaty is made with a view to the public welfare,
either in perpetuity, or for a considerable length
of time, and binds the whole Union. A compact
or agreement is generally temporary in its nature and operation, and is executed by a single act,
and binds only the State that makes it. In this
sense the constitution must be understood,, when
it speaks of trcaties as distinguished from, conpacts. It follows, that general and permanent
commercial regulations with foreign powers, Must
be made by treaty, but that particular and tomporary regulatiocs of commerce may be made by an
agreement of a State with another, or with a
foreign power, by the consent of Congress. But,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in this case, the compact would derive all its effi-

1824.

inherent power of the Gibbons
cacy from the original
•
State, not from the act of consent by Congress,
V.
which would merely remove an existing restraint. Ogden.
There isnothing in the nature of this power,
which renders it exclusive in -Congress. The
power itself does not grow out of the Union, like
the power "to borrow money on the credit of the
United States." It do'es not operate, when exercised by a State beyond its territorial limits, like
the power of naturalization. There is no necessary repugnancy between the acts -of the two governments under this power, since it clearly admits of a great variety of regulations, which may
operate together, without direct interference. The
restraints specially imposed on the power of the
State, relating to commerce, would have been unnecessary, if it were not considered as a concurrent powei.
The practice of the Stqtes shows that the poWer
has always been considered as concurrent. Thus,
the State of New-York.has passed numerous laws,
which are regulations of commerce with foreign
nations, with other States, and with the Indian
tribes." As to that part- of the powerwhich relates to trade with the Indian tribes, the people
here referred to may be within the limits of a
State. Thus, the commentators on the constitution consider it in that light, and contrast the
power with that relating to the same subject in the
a These laws will be found specifically enumerated and stated
in a note to Mr. Emmett's argument.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
bb
Gibbons

V.

O~den.

old confederation, which was qualified so as "not
to infringe the legislative rights of any State
within its own limits. '"a Thus, Congress has legislated on that basis. By the act to regulate trade and
,intercourse with the Indian tribes, it is provided,
s. 19, "that nothing contained in the act shall be so
construed as to prevent any trade with Indiansi on
lands surrounded by settlements of citizens, and
being within the ordinary jurisdiction 'of any of
the individual States."' But the State of NewYork has also legislated on the same subject, and
by the "act relative to the different tribes and natiops of Itidians withiii this State," . prohibits the
purchase of land from'any Indian, without the
authority of the Legislature; prohibits the sale of
various articles to any Indian- or tribe; makes numerous qther regulations, as to trade and intercourse with them, by'the citizens who surround
them, so as to.cover the whole ground over which
Congress ha8,declared its act should not extend.
An exaiinatien of the laws of other States, will
show that many.of them have legislated, under
every part of this power, to the same extent, and,
in some cases, to a greater extent than New-York;
and will show.the havoc-which must be made in
the State laws, if tiis power is not to be considered concurrent.
This power is nst.only concurrent, but is limited
ia Congress.' It do-es not extend to the regulation
of 4he internal commerce of any Stite. This resalts from the terms used in the grant of d~ower,
a 7PekrZist No. 2.

OF THE-UNITED STATES.

"among the several States."

It results also from

1824.

the effects of a contrary doctrine, on the whole
v.
mass of State power. Internal commerce must
Ogdm,
the
within
on
carried
wholly
is
be that which
limits of a State: as where the commencement,
-progress, and.termination of the voyage, are wholly
confined to the territory of the State. This
branch of power includes a vast range of State
legislation, such as turnpike roads, toll bridges,
exclusive rights to- run stage wagons, auction licenses, licenses to retailers, and to hawkers and
pedlers, ferries over navigable rivers and lakes,
and'all exclusive rights to carry-goods and pas sengers, by land or water. All such laws must necessarily affect, to a great extent, the' foreign
trade, and that between the States, as well as the
trade among the citizens of the same State. But,
although these laws do thus affect trade and commerce with other States, Congress cannot interfere, as its power does not reach the regulation of
internal trade, which resides exclusively in the
States.
It has thus been seen, that this power is concurrent; and as such, may be exercised by the
States, subject, like all other concurrent powers,
to the power of Congress, when actually exercised; and that it is limited, not extending to the
internal trade of a State. We contend, that the
exclusive right elaimed by the respondent is valid,- considered either as a regulation of intercourse and trade among the several State-4, or asa regulation of the'internal navigation of the State,
Considering it then. as a regulatoin of trade
VOL.IX.

9

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons

V.
.

among the States, it becomes necessary to inquire
into the foundation of the right of intercourse
among the States, either for the purposes of commerce, or residence and travelling. From the declaration of independence, in 1776, until the estdblishment of the confederation, in 1781, the
States were entirely and absolutely sovereign, and
foreign to each other, as regarded their respective
rights and powers as separate societies of men.
During that period, the right of intercourse among
them rested solely on the jus commune of nations.
By the law of nations, the right of commerce has
its foundation in the obligation resting upon all
men, mutually to assist each other, and to contribute to the happiness of their fellow creatures.
Right on one side, springs frdin obligation on the
other. The right to purchase, springs from the
obligation to sell. "One nation has, therefore, a
natural right to purchase of another the things
which it wants, and which the other does not need."
The law of nations bding only the application of
the law of nature, as regulating the rights and obligations of individuals, to nations and sovereign
States, this is the- foundation of the right of buying. But the right of selling does not impose
any obligation on another nation to buy, as that
other may not want, and must be the sole judge of
its own necessities.,
It follows, then, that any
State has a natural right to purchase of any other
the articles which it needs, and to open a commercial intercourse for that purpose; but that every
a Vattel, Droit des Gensm, liv. 1. c. 8. 1.2. €. 2.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

State, being under no obligation to purchase of 1824.
another, may, at its. pleasure, prohibit the introduc- Gibbons
v.
tion of anyforeign merchandise. These rights of
Ogden..
course
of
and
rights,
perfect
not
are
purchasing
cannot be enfqrced by one nation against another;
and, being thus imperfect, it depends upon the will
ofeach nation, whether it will carry on any commerce
with another, or upon what.terms and under what
regulations. These imperfect rights, like all other
imperfect rights between nations, can become perfect only by treaty; the effect of which, is -to secure to a nation-rights of commerce or intercourse,
-which-it before enjoyed at the vill of another.
The right of travelling, or of entering into and residing in one nation by the citizens or subjects of
another, depends on the same principles of international law. But the sovereign may forbid the
entrance into his territory, either to foreigners in
general, or in particular cases, .and under particular circumstances, ,or as to particular individuals,
and for particular purposes." And as lie may prohibit the entrance altogether, he may annex what
conditions he pleases to the permission to enter.
In the absence of any treaty btipulafion, and of
any -prohibitory regulations, the natural right
would exist, and might be exercised and enjoyed.
This being the relation subsisting between sovereign States, it follows, that before the confederation, each State enjoyed the right of intercourse
with all the others, at the will of those others, both
as respects the transit and residence of persons,
a Jrattel,1.2. c. 8. s, 180.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gfflmns

V.
Ogft.

and the introduction and sale of property. The
confederation was a treaty between- sovereign
States, and "the better to secure and perpetuate
mutual.friendship and intercourse among the people of the different States," stipulated, that the
free inhabitants of each State should have "free
ingress and egress to and from any other State,"
and should enjoy in each State "all the privileges
of trade and commerce; subject to the same duties, impositions, and restrictions, as the inhabit
tants thereof respectively: provided, that such restrictions shall not extend so far asto prevent the
remov al of property imported into any State, to
any other State, of which the owner is an inhabitant." This-article, then, secured .the right of
passing from one State to another, but gave no
new right of commerce as to the introduction of
any goods, and not pven the right of -removing
from the State any property purchased in it. Thp
rights of commerce, therefore, as between the
States, remained as before, subject to all the municipal laws of the State, except that those laws
must be general and impartial in their application.
Under the confederation, then, the States retained
thp whole power of regulating foreign commerce,
and that between the States, except as stipulated in
the treatv of confederation itself. Under it, all
the trade and intercourse between. any State and
any foreign nation, was carried on by the law of
nature and, nations alone. All trade between
any State and another State, as to the right- of importation, &c., was carried on in the same manner. No State could make any freaty of corn-

OF

HrfE UNITED STATES."

merce with a foreign power, or with another 1824.
State.
Gibbons
Thd inconveniences resulting from these powV.
ers of the States, gave -rise to the new constitu- Ogdeb.
tion. These inconveniences.consisted principally
in the impositions and taxes levied on property
imported and exported by one State through-another. There was no inconvenience as to the right
of pagsing from State to State, as that was secured
by the.articles of confederation.- The constitution applied the remedy to'these evils in two ways:
(1. By express prohibitions on the States, in
those particulars in which the evils had been most
sensibly felt, preventing them from levying any
impost or duty of tonnage, without the consent
of Congress. (2.) By-vesting Congress with a
general power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the States. The -constitution
does not profess to give, in terms, the right of
ingress and regress for commercial or any other
purposes, or the right of transporting articles for
trade from one State to another. It only protects
the personal rights of the citizens of one State,
when within the jurisdiction of another, by securing to them "all the privileges and -immunities
of a citizen" of that other, which they hold subject to the"laws of the State as its own -citizens;
and it protects their 'property against any duty
to be imposed on its introduction. The right,
theli, of intercourse with a State, by the subjects of - foreign power, or by the citizens of
another State, still rests on the original right, as
derived frbm the law of nations. Suppose there

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbns

v.

Ogden.

was no treaty with a foreign power, and no act of
Congress regulating intercourse with that power,
but barely a state of peqce; that power would
enjoy the right of trade and intercourse with NowYork, by the law of nations alone. But that
right might be rstrained, or regulated, or abolished by the law of New-York alone. Such was
the situation of New-York before the adoption of
the constitution, both as to foreign nations and the
other States. The constitution has not abridged
the power of the State in this respect. It has
only subjected it to the .superior power of Congress when actually exercised.
An examination of the acts of Congress on this
subject will show,- that, as the constitution has not
given .the right of intercourse and trade, so neither
has Congress, in the exercise of its constitutional
powers, by any law, given that right. Here the
learned counsel entered into an elaborate examition of the statutes, for the purpose of establishing
this position.
It would seem to follow, from this view of the
constitution and the acts of Congress, that the
right of transit from State to State, by land or water, for cdmmercial or other purposes, is founded
on the jus commune of nations; that the constitution does not affect that right, except in specified
cases ; and as to all others, leaves the right as before, with a general power in Congress to regulate
and control it, so far as it may be connected with
commerce ; that the State has the concurrent power also, to regulate and control it, so far as it may
be connected with commerce ; that the State has

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the concurrent power also, .toregulate and control 1824.
it, in all cases where its regulations do not actually ,'s,.
Gibbonw '
v.
conflict with those of Congress ; that Congiess has
Ogdegi
the
affect
or
alter
which
.egulations,
no
made
right at all, by giving any other right than was before enjoyed; that all the regulations of the State,
therefore, which operate .within its own limits, are
binding upon all who come within its jurisdiction;
and that if Congress deems such regulations to be
injurious, it may control them by express provisions, operating directly upon the case.
The case has, heretofore, been considered as if
the steam boat laws were regulations of commerce
a iong the States, in the ordinary acceptation of
those terms. But is the law in question any thing
more than a regulation of the internal-navigation
of the-waters of the State ? In terms, it applies
only to the waters within the State. It does not
,deny the right of entry into its waters to any vessel navigated by steam: it only forbids such vessel, when within its waters and juris'diction, to be
:moved by steam; but that vessel may still navigate by all other means; and it leaves the people
of other States, or of New-York, in the full possession of the right of navigation, by all the means
known or used at the time of the passage of the
law. It is, therefore, strictly a regulation of internal- trade and navigation, which belongs to .the
State. This may, ,indeed, indirectly affect the
right of commercial intercourse between theStates.
But so do all other laws regulating internal trade,
or the right of transit-from one part to another of
the same State; such as quarantine laws, inspec-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. tipn laws, duties on auctions, licenses to sell goods,
*G10b
-- &c, All these laws are acknowledged to be va"Gibbons
V. lid. They are passed, no.with a view or design
Ogden. to regulate commerce, but to promote some great
object of public interest,within the acknowledged
scope of State legislation: such as the public
health, agriculture, revenue, or the encouragement
of some public improvement. Being passed for
these legitimate objects, they are valid as internal
regulations, though they may incidentally restrict
or regulate foreign trade, or that between the
States. So of the laws now in question; they
were passed to introduce and promote a great public improvement, clearly within the power of the
State to encourage. They operate entirely within the limits of the State. They put no restraint
on the right of entry into the State ; but they exclude from the right of navigation on its waters in
a particular mode, because they deem that mode
injurious to the public interest, unless used by
particular persons. How can they be distinguished in principle, from all the other laws which have
been referred to? "If
steam boats had been pernicious in themselves, or had been deemed so as
affecting injuriously other great public interests,
could Congress have prohibited them on the waters of New-York, by any exercise of the power to
regulate commerce ? Could not the State have
done it, by virtue of its general power, on its navigable waters ? . Suppose that steam boats were
found to be unsafe, and destroictive to property
or lives, unless built or navigated by persons particularly skilful, could not the State prohibit the

OF THE UNITED STATt.L.

use of them, unless thus built and navigated? It,
under any circumstances, the State may restrict
the use of them to particular persons, it may do so
in its own discretion, for reasons of which it alone
is the judge.
All- this shows that the restraint imposed by
these laws, on the navigation of the waters of the
State, is merely an internal regulation of the right
of transit, or passage from one part of the State to
another; that it is a regulation which, if even indispensable to the public safety, Congress could
not make; and that the power to make it must,
.therefore, be in the State.
The right of a State to regulate its internal
trade, applies as well to its navigable waters, as
to its other territory. Its rivers are its territory
and domain,'as much as the land, and equally
subject to its laws in all respects. The power of
Congress to regulate commerce applies as well to
the land as to the water. Commerce between
the States, and with foreign powers, is very extensively carried on by land. Congress has accordingly aidapted its revenue laws to the land, by
imposing duties on goods imported in carriages,
&c. When goods are brought into the 'State in
a carriage or wagon, cannot the State prohibit the
transportation of those goods from one part of
the State to another, except in a particular manner, or by a particular road, or ifi vehicles of a
particular description ? Where is the difference
between. an exclusive right to navigate vessels by
steam on the water, and an exclusive right to
move carriages by steam on the land? Cannot a
VOL.IX.

10

1824.
Gibbow

v.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPRIEME UOUUT

1824.
Gibbons

v.
: g*

State grant an exclusive privilege to carrygoods
as well as passengers,. in carriages or vessels, by
water or'by land? May it not convert all its roads
leading into other States, into turnpikes, levy tolls
upon them, and alter and abolish them. at pleasure? All these are regulations of the internal
trade of the State, but they may, and, indeed;
must affect, to a great degree, the trade between
the'States. By virtue of the right of a State over,
itm navigable waters, it establishes ferriesy which
are' exclusive rights to use, parts of navigable'waVers.for particular purposes and in a particular
manner; and bridges, which interrtipt, -ahd .sometimewdestroy th6 navigation of rivers: It grants
the land under the water at pleasure, builds public
piers, erects dams and other obstructiins) aid diverm the- course of the waters for -any purpose
whatsoever. By its power over its 'laftd territory)
a State establishes roads and canals, regulates the
carrying of goods, and the amount of tolls upon
them, -grants exclusive privilbges to stage wagons
and others, ,fr-the carriage of goods and passengers, and performs all other acts of' sovereignty in

regard to these public highways.
It appears, then, that a State may' exercise the

same. control in these.respects, over both land and
water, within its own jurisdiction; that the right,
as to both, rests on the same foundation; that of
a sovereigni over his domain; and that it has uni-

formty been' exercised over both in the same'manner. What 'then, is the, right -under which' the
respondent claims?. It is only 'an'internal regulation 'of the use of the watersof the State. This

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is clearly the case, when it applies to the -case of 1824.
the conveyance- of passengers or goods, on the Gibbons
V.
waters of the State, where the whole journey or
OgdeM
to
New-York
from
as
transit is within the State,
Albany. Is it in truth any thing more than an
exclusive right of ferry over the waters of Hudson's river? It is, in substatice and effect, an exclusive right to carry passengers in boats navigated in a particular mode, on the navigable waters of the -State. These waters are a public
highway, like any other public road on land, and,
as such, are completely subject to the control of
the State taws.. There are;various acts of Congress:whih recognise the power of the States to
control their navigable waters. Thus, in the act
enabling the people of Louisiana to form a constitution,- there is:a provision, that the State convention shu2l "pass an ordinanceproviding that
the. river Mississippi, and the navigable rivers and
-waters leading iito the same, or into the gulf of
Mexico, shall be commacnhighways, and for ever
free, as .well to the inhabitants of the said State,
as to other citizens of the United States, without
any, tax, duty, -impost, or toll therefor, imposed
by the said State. ' ' a And in the act for the admision of that State, the above provisions, as to
the .navigation of the Mississippi, are made one
of the fundamental conditions of the admission?
Similar conditions were also imposed upon the admission. of the States of Mississippi, Missouri,
a Ingersoll's Dig. 586.
b Id. 583.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

and Alabama ;" which strongly imply, that the new
States would have had a right to control the navigation of their waters, if these provisions had not
been inserted; that there is nothing in the constitution which could prevent them froth doing so,
when they should once have been admitted as
equal members of the Union; and that Congress
could pass no law, under the constitution, to prevent them from doing it.
But the power of Congress is "to regulate commerce." The correct definition of commerce is,
the transportation and sale of commodities. It is
so considered in all the regulations made by the
laws of Congress. They speak generally of vessels and their cargoes, and whatever rights are
given by the laws of Congress, apply to commerce
strictly and properly speaking. Any person
claiming to navigate the waters of the State of
New-York against the State laws, under any right
derived from the laws of Congress relative to
commerce, must show himself.qualified according
to these laws, and actually exercising that right
under their provisions. Now, if the license here
set up gives any right it is to carry on the coasting trade, which consists in transporting goodi
from one State to another. It is nbt pretended
that the appellant was engaged in this trade,
when stopped by the injunction. It appears by
the pleadings, that his boat was employed in the
transportation of persojns or passengers for hire,
and it is notorious that this is a distinct business.
a Ingersdoft Dig. 506. 612. 617.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-

It is often entirely disconnected from any corn- 1824.
mercial object, though sometimes indirectly con- Gibbons
v.
nected with trade. So it has been considered by
Ogden.
tax
a
laid
once
New-York
States.
some of the
upon. passengers travelling in the steam boats;
and Delaware taxed passengers travelling through
that State in carriages. But these States could
have laid ro tax on propertythus transported. If,
then, the appellant's boat wafs engaged, bonafide,
in the coasting trade, the question might arise as
to its rights and privileges under the enrolment
and license. But, when no trade is carried on,
or intended to be carried on, under the license,
it is-clear that the license is a fraud, upon the State
law, if that law is in other respects valid. An
examination of the provisions of the statutes relating to the coasting trade will show, that they
all relate exclusively to the coasting trade as before defined, and do not contemplate the carrying
of passengers as distinguished from commerce.
Every vessel engaged in it, must not only have a
license,-but must comply with various regulations,
at every departure she takes from one district to
another; and, unless it is shown that such regulaLtions have been complied with, the Vessel can
claim no right (in any case) to navigate under the
l1aws of the United States. It does not appear
that the, appellant's boat has ever done this, or
pretended-to do it; or, in fact, to be engaged in
trade at all.
It has thus been attempted to be shown, that
our exclusive right is valid, even if the law granting it is to fie considered as a regulation or restric-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibn
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

tion of the right of commercial intercourse.bef
tween the States, on the ground, ().) That .the
power to regulate commerce is strictly a concurrent power. (2.) That the State may act in any
manner, in the exercise of that power,. so long as
its laws do not interfere with any right exercised
under the constitution or laws of the United States.
(3.) That the appellant, in this -case, has shown
np right under that constitution or these Joiws, and,
therefore, cannot contest the validity of the exclusive grant. (4.) That even if the enrolment and
license relied, on, give a right, it is not the right of
intercourse for any other purpose than for tho.
coasting trade; and the appellant does not show
that he was carrying on, or intended to carry on,
that trade. But that the State law, in fact, is only a
regulation of the internaltrade and right of navigation, within the territorial limits of the State:
that the 'power to regulate this, is exclusively in
the. State; that the State has exercised it, ir
the same manner, both by land and water; and
that the law is valid, although incidentally it may
affiect the right of intercourse between the States.
To which it may be added, that the State law
may be valid in part, or as enforced under particular circumstances, though it may be void under
other circumstances. Thus, the law may be held
void, so far as it restrains the right of navigation
between State and State, either for commercial
purposes, strictly speaking, or for all purposes,
including the transportation of passengers. And
it may, at the same time, be valid, so far as it restrains the right of internal navigation, strictly

OF THE UNITED STATES.

speaking, either in the whole extent of thb right, 1824.
or as a mere exclusive right to carry passengers Gibbons
,.
in steam boats. Thus, the State law may be sufOgdem.
it
as
far
so
part,
in
or
fered to operate, in whole
may, without actual conflict with the constitution
or laws of the United States.
Mr. Emmett, on the same side, stated, that the
question sought to be presented, was the complete
invalidity of these laws of New-York, as being repugnant to the constitution of the United
States. If the invalidity be not total and absolute, (and that might well be the case with statutes,
which are often void in part, and good for the residue,) the appellant must further show, that "he
himself stands in that situation, which entitles him
to allege .their partial invalidity; that his case is
such, as that the part of the law which is void, is
calculated, if enforced, to affect or injure his
rights.
In addition to the general primafaciepresumption in -favour of the constitutionality of every act
of.aState Legislature, this series of laws derives
a .peculiar claim to that presumption, from the
history of the circumstances attendant on their
enactment. On the 19th of March, 1787, ashort
time before the meeting of the federal convention,
the Legislature of the State of New-York made its
grant to John Fitch, for 14 years. From motives,
of the correctness of which this Court. can take
no cognizance, the Legislature, on the 27th of
March, 1798, thought fit to repeal that law, on the
suggestion that Fitch was either dead, or had with-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbous
0V.

ogde

drawn himself, and that Robert R.. Livingston
was possessed of a mode of applying the steam
engine to propel boats, &c. At this time, all the
laws of Congress regulating commerce and patents, had been for above five years in operation,
and their provisions familiarly known. The Council of Revision, consisting of Mr. Jay, as Governor,
Chief Justice Lansing, Judge Lewis, and Judge
Benson, notwithstanding the personal regard they
migh t well be suppbsed to have entertained for
Chancellor Livingston, (who was also a member,
but did not sit,) thought it their duty to object to
this bill, on the ground that the facts from which
Fitch's forfeiture was to arise, had not been found
by some due course of law. The act, however,
passed the Legislature by a constitutional majority. But he would here ask, who made this objection, and what were the inferences it afforded, as
to the constitutionality of the law? Mr, Jay's is a
name of peculiar authority; Chief Justice Lansing
had been a member of the federal convention;
and both the Judges were perfectly conversant
with the political proceedings of the day. They
were adverse to this act on. principle, and must be
presumed to have presented all the objections
against it which-they thought well founded. They
not only did not think that the adoption of the
constitution, and the enacting by Congress of her,
revenue and patent laws, had made Fitch's privileges cease, but neither the constitution nor those
laws appeared to furnish any objection against a
similar grant to Robert R. Livingston; On the
29th of March, 1799, an act was passed, extend-

.OF THE VNITED STATES.

ing the former act for twenty years from its date,
and giving two years for making the experiment.
That passed the Council of Revision without any
objection, none of the judges having dreamt that
it was unconstitutional. The time for making the
experiment having run out, without a boat having
been made, and Mr. Fulton having associated himself to Mr.Livingston in the investigation, on the
5th of April, 1803, the Legislature made the grant
anew to Messrs. Livingston and Fulton. And
that law was again approved of by the Council of
Revision, consisting almost entirely of new members, and differing from the first. The time granted by this law for constructing a boat, again ran
out; and on the 6th of April, 1807, it was again
extended for two years, and that act also approved
of by the Council of Revision. In the course of that
year, the experiment was successfully made; and
on the 11th of April, 1808, the. Legislature, by
an act, which also passed, the Council of Revision,
made a contractwithMessrs. Livingston and Fulton, by which they hoped to gain, and did gain,
unequalled accommodations for perscss travelling
in the State.
The success of those gentlemen awoke the cupidity of others, and doubts of the constitutionality of those laws were, for the first time, raised.
But, after these questions were first broached, and
while opposition boats were actually building,, on
the 9th of April, 1811, the Legislature passed
another act, which also received the. sanction of
the Council of Revision. These were not judicial
decisions; but they were six consecutive and .deV,,T.. IX-

11

1824.
Gibbons

'""'

v.
Ogden..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

'f~U
Gibbons '
v.

Ogden.

liberative acts of Judges, equally bound, by their
duty and oath of office, to examine, decide, and
act upon this objection, if it had sufficient force;
they so nearly resembled judicial decisions, that
they might well be cited as authorities. They
also showed, that the laws now objected to had
not grown out of any temporary effervescence, or
excitement, or party intrigues. The grant began
in 1798, and had been universally ratified down
to 1811.
But the constitutionality of those laws had been
the subject of a judicial decision of the most
respectable character. The act of 1811 had a
proviso, that nothing therein contained should extend to the three opposition boats actually built
and launched. With regard to two of tliem, Livingston and Fulton filed a bill for an injunction
to prevent their navigating. The.then Chancellor thought the question too important to grant an
injunction, .n the first instance, and refused it;
from -that decision an appeal was made to the
Court of Errors, of that State; thc:e the constitutionality o those laws was very ably disputed,
but supported by the unanimous decree of that
Court, and the very elaborate opinions of the
Judges, which, for sound constittional reasoning, can scarcely be surpassed."
New-York is. not the only State which has
passed such laws. Massachusetts, February 7,
1815,. granted to J. L. Sullivan, a similar grant
for steam tow-boats, on Connecticut river, for
a Livingsqon v. Van Jngen, 9 Johns. Rep. b0

OF THE UNITED STATES.

twenty-eight years, after the expiration of his pa- 1824.
tent, which, on February 11, 1819, was enlar- Gibbons
ged for two years. N.ew-Hampshire, in June,
V.
1816, gave him a similar privilege on the Merri- Ogden.
mack. Pennsylvania, on the 26th of 14arch, 1813,
gave a similar right to James Barnes, from Wilksbarre to Tioga Point, the borders of our State.
Georgia, on the 14th November, 1814, gave a
similar right to S. Howard, for all the waters of
the State,. with steam tow-boats; and by another
act, 19th December, 1817, granted to a company,
-(probably deriving under Howard,) a similar right
for steam boats for twenty years. Tennessee has
lately given a similar right on the Tennessee
river.
What are the provisions of the constitution alleged again the validity of those laws? They
are to be found in- the powers given to Congress,
art. 1. s. 8. to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several States, and with
the Indian tribes; and, also, to promote the progress ,P't science and of the useful arts, by securing, for limited times, to authors and inventors;
the exclusive right to their respective writings and
discoveries.
If the constitution had not contained either of
the provisions referred to, the right of the States
to grant exclusive privileges would be unquestionable. At any rate, no point could be presented
to this Court, by which it could have jurisdiction"
to consider the vajidity of their grants. In free.
countries, which reject the pretensions of prerogative, it is (unless constitutionally forbidden) a

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gbn
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

part of the right of legislation; and whether wisely
exercised or not, is a question between the government and the people, with Which this Court
have nothing to do.a Those are the only provisions on the subject; for it is clear, that the 2d
see. df the 4th art. (which, -however, has sometimes been mentioned,) would not have prevented
the exercise of this right:- That is only intended
to secure to all citizens of the United States, when
coming into any State, the same immunities and
privileges that are enjoyed by the citizens of that
State, and subject to the same laws and regulations; and, unquestionably, those laws do not
place the citiiens of other States on a different
footing than the citizens of the State of NewYork.
Those provisions, befoie specified, cannot apply to interfere with the State laws, unless where
a case is presented, the facts of which bring it
within one or other of those provisions.' Now,
the- case presented contains nothing to make
either.of the provisions of the constitution applicable to it. Certainly no patent is here presented
touching the same subject matter, and with which
the State gran:s are pretended to interfere. On
this point the appellant has no right to ask for the
decision of this Court, or to claim the benefit of
its jurisdiction.
•Neither does the case present -any ground on
a 6 Jon8.Rep. 559, 560. Per Yates, J. 563. Per Therapson, J.

573, 574..

Per Kent, Ch. 3.

6 Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat.,Rep. 1. PerJohnson, J. p. 33,

OF -THE UNITED STATES.

which the application of the clause respecting 1824.
commerce can be made; the vessels not having ",'Gibbons
V.
been engaged in trade or-commrerce, but in carrying passengers for hire.. But if either of those Ogden.
provisions can be applicable, what is the general
rule for their construction, at -to the extent and
conclusiveness of the powers they confer? In
the delegation" of authority to Congress itself by
-the constitution, the phraseology does not imply
exclusive power. It is remarkable, that even the
definite article the is omitted, and it is only provided that Congress shall have power, &c. And
this omission was not accidental, but studiously
made. By referring to the journals of the Federal Convention,a it will be found, that the sixth article of Mr. Charles Finkney's draft has the words
"shall have the power," &c. In the draft reported by- the committee. of five, (qit. 7th,) the
definite article is still preserved.b, In the draft as
reported by Mr. Brearly, the word "the" is left
out, clearly by .design. ° Notwithstanding that,.
Mr. Patrick Henry and Mr. George Mason, and,
indeed, the opposers of the constitution generally,
thought, that by* that instrument, as originally
presented to the people, all the powers given to
Congress.would be considered as given to them
exclusively of the States., Mr. Henry said, "the
right interpretation of the delegation of those
a p.75.
b p. 222.
p. 323, 324.

d VirgirdaDebates, S00.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

powers was, that when power was given, it was
Sexclusively given." And Mr. George Masono asks,
"will powers remain to the States, which are not
-

expressly guarded and reserved?" This construc-

tion, which was the general foundation of the
opposition to the constitution, was strenuously
disavowed and reasoned against in the Federalist,'
and actually produced the 10th article of the
amendment. The same doctrine was, nevertheless, maintained by one of the counsel in the case
of Sturges v. Crowninshield.c He says, "every
power given to the constitution, unless'limited, is
entire, exclusive and supreme." But the. Court
held differently; that the grant of a power to Congress does not imply a prohibition on a State to
exercise the Pame right.' And the doctrine is very
fully enlarged upon by Mr. Justice Story, in Houston v. Moore., It is also very clearly laid down
in the case al'ready cited, by Thompson, J. and
by Kent, Ch. J/ But the rule is more strongly,
and perhaps not less justly, laid down by Judge
Tucker, in his edition of Blackstone's Commenzaries;I after alluding to the clauses 'restraining
the powers given, he says, " the sum of all which
appears to be, that the powers delegated to the
federal government are, in all cases, to receive the
a Virginia De1ateg, 313.
b Nos"'32. 82.
c 4 1V1heat. Rep. 124,

.d Id. 193.
e 5 Wheat. Rep. 48. 54.
f Livingston v. Van Ingen, 9 Johns. Rep. 565. 571.

g Tucker'. Bl. Comm, Part 1. App. D. p. 154.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

most strict construction that the instrument will 1824.
bear, where the rights of a State, or of the peo- Gibbons
pie,. either collectively or individually, mnay be
v.
drawn in question." This rule of construction Ogden.
must be correct; for the constitution 'gives nothzng to the States or to the people. Their rights
existed before it was formed; and are derived from
the nature of sovereignty-and the principles of
-freedom.- The constitution gives only to the general government, 'and so .far as it operates on State
or popular rights, it takes away a portion, which it
gives to the general government. In respect to
extent and range, this delegation of powers ought,
perhaps, to be liberally construed; but the States
or the people must not be thereby excluded from
the exercise of any part of the sovereign or popular rights held by them before. the adoption of the
,onstitution, except where that instrument has
given it exclusively to the geieral government.
The 10th amendment, of the constitution was
adopted .to secure that construction, and it is conformable to the rules of reason and law, in construing, every similar instrument. The truth of
this rule has, however, bden sometimes controverted, by referring to the power of naturaliza.tion as exclusive, and. reasoning.from that to the
others. Naturalization is.decided by this Court
to be hn exclusive power; but it must he so considered, not from .the grant of it in the 7th article,
but from the 'orce and necessary. effect of he 2d
see. of the 4th article. It is, therefore, an exception3 -and does not shake the general rule.
It is of verylittle.importance, whether the power

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

to regulate commerce be excluszve or concur-

b
Gibbons

rent. since this State grant does not, in fact, interfere wiih any congressional regulation of commerce
But as the exclusive nature of that power

.

gden.

has been always insisted on, and used as an argument against this grant, it may be right tW consider
the solidity of the assertion.
The expression, concurrent powers, is objected to, as if it implied equality in the rights vested
in Congress and the States. It is only a verbal
criticism, that it W.ould be more correct if the term
usedwas co-ordinate. The term, concurrent, is
adopted by the Federalist, and has constantly
been used to express those powers. It is always
understood, when so applied, that the exercise by
the States must be subordinate, and never can be
in collision Vvith that by Congress. It has been
said, commerce .s'an unit ; the meaning of that expression does not very clearly appear, nor its
force and. application to the argument. If it be an
unit, the constitution has broken it into fractions,
and given'to the States the exclusive control of
one of the fractl~ils. But further, the regulations
relating to-that unit, are many and various: some
acting -on one part, and some on another, and
operating.oil it in different ways. It is with these
regulations, that this discussion has to do; and
the question still remains, whether some of those
regulations may.not, subordinately, emanate from
the States.
. As Congress has no power to regulate the internal' commerce of any State, none of its regulations can affect so mucit of the exclusive grantas

OF THE UNITED STATES.

restrains vessels which are only used within the 124.
States; nor can it give to any man a permission to carry on any steam boat navigation, which, in
v.
its beginning, and ending, and course, is entirely confined within'thp waters of the State : for instaric6,
betW'een New-York and Albany; on Cayuga lake;
on lake Ontario, and the St. Lawrence, from Niagara to.Ogdensburg. The only quetions can be,
as to navigation bftween foreign countries, or another State and New-York; and even there, the
power of Congress coul only be extended to fair
cases of trading,within the purview of the constitdtion, and not to the mere transoortatioh of passengers; nor to anycolourable pretence of trading,
as a cover for carrying passengers, and defeating
the grant. This distinction is, in itself, of g-er.*
consequence, and peculiarly applicable to the case
before the Court, in which th6 complainant states,
and the defendant admits, the vessels to have been
employedinthe transportation of passengers. The
power given to Congress to regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and between the. several
States, relates to commerce, in-the proper acceptation of the term; "the exchange of one thing for
another; the interchange of commodities; trade
or traffic." This is the direct subject of the puwer.
and by force of the auxiliary power, "to make all
laws which shall be necessary for carrying into
execution the foregoing powers," Congress hls
passed laws for erecting ports of entry and delivery, for the collection of duties, regulation of seamen and ships employed in foreign commerce, or
that betwo~n t66 States. Ports, duties. seambn
VOL. IM.

72

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
Gibbons

v.
Ogden,

"md ships' afford the means of regulating commerce, and therefore, so far as they are used in
such commerce, they nome within the powers of
Congress. It ha, an incidental power, indeed, to
regulate navigation, but only so far as that navigation is, or may be, subservient to the commerce
it has a direct power to regulate. It has no right
to interfere with, the navigation of the navigable
waters of any State, br even where they are common to two States, except so fir as that navigation
is used for, or applicable to, the purposes of the
commerce it has the power to regulate; and it is
a proposition unequivocally false, when asserted
generally, that Congress has power to interfere
with or regulate the navigation of the navigable
waters of any State or States. The proposition
can only'be made true, by adding the qualification,
"in so far as that navigation is used in foreign
commerce, or commerce between the States." It
is contended, that the navigable waters belong peculiarly to the Federal government, and not to the
States within which they are. This position, combined with some others, made by the appellant's
counsel, leads to alarming results. We have canals of Which we are proud, and from their tolls
the State anticipates large prdfits: one is laying
out from Sharon, in Connecticut, to the Hudson ;
anid another contemplated through New-Jersly,
from the Delaware to the Hudson. Those already in operation, run from navigable waters to navigable waters; from lake Erie or Champlain to
the Hudson: those projected,. are to be from one
State to another. Their utility and profits must

OF THE UNITED STATES.

result from transporting the produce of Canada,
or other States, to New-York, principally for exportation and foreign trade; and bearing back, in
return, the products of foreign commerce to those
places. They are, then, instruments of foreign
commerce, and of that among the States; and
mere channels of communication between navigable waters, or different States. Now, where a
power is given to Congress, all the means which are
appropriate.and plainly adapted to the execution
of that power, are also given.0 It is contended,
that it belongs exclusively to Congress to regulate
the- navigation and vessels that are the medium of
foreign trade, and that between the States; this
commerce is an unit, and cannot be divided; the
navigable waters belong to the general government, and not to the States; d~o State has a right
to collect revenue from foreign trade, or that between the States. If these positions be coisidered together, what becomes of the State control
over our canals, the craft on them, or the tolls from
them? -the pier at BlAck Rock, or the basin at
Albany ? If the power of Congress over commerce be exclusive, it must also have exclusive control over the means of carrying it on. No State,
then, should be mad enough to make another canal, susceptible of being used for intercourse between the States, or foreign commerce.
But there is no grant in the -constitution giving
the navigable waters peculiarly to the Federal goa United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358.

ryland, 4 Mw

. Rep. 316

M(Cuiloch v. Dth-

1824.
Gibbons

Y.
Ogden.

CASESJIN THE SUPREME COURT

vernment, and not to the States within which they
" may be.; nor is it traced to ziny grant, but to some
mystical consequence of the Union itself. The
' ~pition is entirely deniped, and m6t by another, of
which the strictest examination is solicited. It is
this'. the Federalgovernment can do no act on
the.aa'igable'waterswithin the limits of the United.Slates, which, or a correTonding act to
ivlhi.,it cannot do on the land,.within the same
limits Ifit can, let the. act-be named, Then
the navigab.le-watersbeloag no more to the Federal government, and are no .otherwise afrected by
the Union, than the land. itself. Both are equally
subject to, the jurisdiction of the general government, for the exercise of all powers delegated. ,to
it by the constitution, and both equally-subjeot. to
State jurisdiction, for the exeroie of all powers
connected with State sovereignty. !tisaid, .that
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction -belong exclusively to the Federal. goyernment ; but this Court
has decided, that the grant to the United Sta~ea
in the constitution, of all --cases Df admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, does hot extend to a cession
of the waters"in which those cases may.arise, or of
gnerAl jurisdiction over the same ; and that the
general jurisdiction over tho place, subject ,to this
grant, .adheres to the territory as a portion not yet.
given away; and that the residuary. powers of
•legislation still remain in the State. Besides,
"admiraltyand maritime jurisdiction depends either
--)n the place whbte the act is done,.or the nature of
t I nired States r. BeVans, 3 WhA

eft . 86.

- OF THE UNITED .STATES.

the act itself. The place gives no jurisdiction, 1824.
where the navigable waters in which the tide-ebbs Gibbons
and flows are within .the body of a county or a
v.
Stath, or of two States.a Accordingly, the laws
giving jurisdiction of erimes Xo the District and
Circuit Courts, confine it to "places out of the jurisdiction of any partictilar State." If the Admiralty Court has cognisauce of any matter don6 on
navigable-waters within a State,*it is derived, hot
from the locus, but from the causa litis, which
gives jurisdiction, though it should arise on land :
for instance, seamen's wages, founded on shipping articles made on land, have always, and
charter parties and policies of insuranpie, have
lately, been held to be of admiralty jurisdiction.b
But, it is further said, to prove the exclusive
control of the general government over those navigable waters, that they- are regarded and treated
as the high seas, since this admiralty and mari-.
time jurisdiction includes "all seizures under laws
of impost, navigation or trade of the United States,
where the seizures are made on waters which are
navigable from the sea by vessels, of ten or more
tons buithen, within their iespective districts, as
well as upon the high seas." The seizures alluded to, are for breaches of commercial laws, coming under the constitutional powers of Congress,
and the authority of the United States over the
place, on that account, is equal, whether the ofa 4 l-st. i7, j38, 139, 140.

12 CO. 129.

892.
6 De Loiov. Bo%, 2"GaU4. &n. 308.

Moor, 122. 891,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
bo
Gibbous

v.

Ogden.

fence be committed on land or water; and the
very next sentence gives to the 'same District
Court "exclusive original cognisance of all seizures on. land, or other waters, than as aforesaid
made." In fact, analogous 'provisions. for regulating foreign commerce .by land, are made by the
actof the .2d of March, 1821, "further to regulate the entry Qf merchandise imported into the
United States from any adjacent territory." It
directs'every conductor of any carriage or sleigh,
and every other person coming from any adjacent
foreign territory into.the United States, with merchandise subject to duty, immediately on arrival
within the United States, to deliver a manifest,
&c. at the office of the nearest Collector, or Depuiy. Collector, to be verified on oath ; for noncompliance, the carriage or sleigh shall be forfeited. The duties to be paid or secured by bonds;
and all penalties and forfeitures to be sued for
and recovered in the manner prescribed by the
general collection law. Clearly, then, Congress
has no more power over the navigable waters,
than over the land; nor over the ships, than it has
over the carriages and sleighs engaged in the same
kind of -commerce. It might register, enrol and
license the latter, if it thought fit, as well as ships.
Nor is there anygreater control acquired by th6 general government, in virtue of the exis.tence of the
Union, over navigable waters or shipping, than
over land and land carriages. The power it possesses as to ships or vessels, is only in so far as
they are instruments of foreign commerce, or of
that between the different States; bit in so far

OF THE UNITED STATES.

as the employment of a ship or vessel in naviga- 1824.
ting the waters of any State• or States, has no con- Gibbons
V.
nexion with the commerce which Congress has
power to regulate; neither that employment, nor Ogdmt
its regulation or prohibition, falls within the purview of the federal consti*tution. Itcould not, I
think, be seriously contended, that Congress can
regulate the carrying of passengers from .any part
of the Union, who are travelling to Balston, Saratoga, or any other place, for health or pleasure;
and even it the object of their passing were to
trade, that would not legalize the interference of
Congress as.to the mode of their conveyance from
place to place. That naturally falls within the
sphere of State legislation; and we must keep in
memory the rule of construction laid down by
Judge Tucker, and already cited, "that the powiers
delegated to the federal- government are, in all
cases, to receive the most strict construction that
the instrument will bear, where the rights of a
State or of the people, either collectively or individually, may be drawn in question." Those who
contend, that navigating by steam boats between
different States, falls within the powers of Congress, must admit that it. would have the power to
prohibit the carrying of goods, wares or merchandise in a steam boat from any foreign place, or
different State, to another.. Now, would Congress have the power to prohibit the carrying of
passengel's in steam boats from Norfolk or Elizabethtown Point to New-York ? Certainly such a
power could not be contended for; and why not?

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
v.
4D'5d"

only because the powers of Congress.have nothing
to say to the. carrying of passengers.
It may be urged against this train of reasoning,
that Congress has actually Iegislated on the subject of passengers. By the act of the 2d of March,
1819, regulating passenger ships and vessels, the
fact is admitted; but, though the humane motives
which suggested tle law; and its provisions, are
laudable, its constitutionality may well be doubted.
df.Congress has the .power to regulate the conveyance of mere passengers, coming by water from
foreign countries, it has an equdil power to regulate. those coming by land, or passing from one
S3tate to another. If that law be constitutional,
or if a steam boat, only employed in carrying
passengers between "New-Jersey and New-York,
can come within the jurisdiction of Congress, it
must necessarily follow, that Congress has a righf
(and, indeed, according to the doctrine of our
adversaries, is exclusively authorized,) to regulate
the number of-passengers to be received into every
ordinary stage coach, though it does not carry, the
mail, and the size, shape, description, and kind of
diligence, and the kind and number of horses, to be
employed in conveying passengers between NewBrunswick and Maine, Vermont and New-York,
and through the State of New-Jersey, between
New-York and. Philadelphia! If this legislation
falls under the power to regulate commerce, and
that power is exclusive, it must be contended, that
none of the States in which these diligences may
travel, have a right to pass any law respecting
tbem! Neither.this Court, nor the pe6ple of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

U ited States, are, probably, prepared for the
assertion of that.claim. The States have always
legislated on a different principle, whether the
conveyance of passengers was to be by land or
water. Every State has, probably, made numerous provisions on this subject; but, want of time
and opportunity has confined research to the statutes of New-York and Georgia.o
a In those States, 1st, as to ferries and bridges: In the laws
of New-York (sd vol. Webster2s ed. p. 321.) an act passed 19th
March, 1803, grants to John Ransom the exclusive right, for ten
years, to keep a ferry across Lake Champlain, from his landing,
at Cumberland Head, to Grand Isle, in Ver'mont, with a prohibition and penalty against any olher person's keeping a ferry, or
transporting any persons, goods or chattels, for hire or p.y, across
the lake, between the point of Cumberland Head hnd the north
point, called Gravelly Point, ton said Cumberland Head. An
act passed May 16th, 1810, (6th-vol. lVebsters 4 Sdnner's ed.
p. 16.) makes the same grant for ten years more, with the same
prohibition and penalties, to Russel Ransom. An act passed
May 26th, 1812, (Id. 394.) grants, in- the same way, to Peter
Deall, and his assigns, to keep a ferry across Lake Champlain,
from Ticonderoga to the town of Shoreham, in Vermont, for sixteen years, with a lijke prohibition and penalties for carrying, &c.
from any place on the west shore, within half a mile north or
south of Deall's dwelling house. An act, passed larch 28, 1S05,
(4th vol. same ed. 66.) gives to David Alayo the same right, from
his landing, in the said town of Champlain, to Windmill Point, in
Vermont, for ten years, with a like prohibition and penalty. An
act, passed February 20, 1807, (5th vol. tame ed. p. 11.) gives
to Peter Steenberg the same right to keep, &c. a ferry between
the south west point of Carlton Island and the outlet of Lake Ontario, (the high road to Canada,) with the same prohibition and
penalty.
In Georgia, by an act of the 14th December, 11809, an exclusive right is given to Joseph Hill, &c. for one hundred years, to
erect th11e toll bridges across the Savannah and its branches, (diV 6.. EX.

1824.
Gibbons

Y.
Ogdem

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1924.
It is, however, contended, that the power of
-b-o.,regulating
commerce
is concurr'ent. This posiI
•
C'ibbons
V.
tion,
indeed,
is'
by
no
means universally acceded
C.gden.
viding South Carolina and Georgia,) a little above the city of Savannah, on the road between it and Charleston; and it prohibits
any person's erecting a toll bridge across the said river Savannah,
up or down it, within five miles of the city. An act of December
6, 1813, authorized John Hill tu. establish a ferry from Savannah
to Proctor's Point, till he has built his bridges. An act of 15th of
December, 1809, gives to William Garritt and LeRoy Hammond
a right to make a toll bridge, and exact toll, across the Savannah
river, from a place on the Georgia side, opposite Campbletown;
and to Walter Leigh and Edward Rowell a similar bridge; &c.
over the Savannah river, at Augusta. An act of December 5,
1800, gives to commissioners the right to establish a ferry over
the river Savannah, at Augusta; the tolls to be for the benefit of
the academy of Richmond county; which, perhiaps, the appellant's counsel may think at variance with his position, that no
State has a right to derive revenue by tolls on the trade or intercourse between two States. The same law prohibits any other
ferry or bridge between Williams' ferry, opposite Fort MIoore's
bluff, and Ray's ferry, opposite Cnmpbletown. An act of 6th of
December, 1813, gives a ferry across the Savannah, to Ezekiel
Dubze; and another is given to Zachariah Bowman and Daniel
Tucker. An act, passed 9th of November, 1814p on the express
ground, of facilitating intercourse with South Carolina, gives to
John N'Kinne and Henry Shuhz, for twenty years, an exclusive
right to a toll bridge over the Savannah, from Augusta, or within
four miles thereof; and prohibits the establishing of any other
toll bridge over the Savannah, from Augusta, or within four miles
above or below the city.
2. As to stages. In the laws of New-York, an act, passed
March 30, 1798, (4th vol. Loring 4- Andrews' ed p. 399.) grants
to Alexander 3. Turner and Adonijah Skinner, an exclusive right
for five years,. of running stages between Lansinglburgh and the
town of Hampton, in the county of Washington, (i. e. to Vermont,
or the road through it to Canada.) An ict, passed February 26,
1803, (3d vol. Webster's ed. p. 322.) grants to T. Donally and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Judge Tucker, in his edition of Blackstwze,.

1824.

ranks among the powers
• exclusively granted to

Gibbons

the federal government, the power to regulate

V.
Ogdeq.

to.

others, the exclusive right, for seven years, of the same kind,
from th6 city of Albany to the north boundary line of the State of
New-Jersey. An act, passed April 6, 1807, (5th vol. Websters.4
Skinner's ed p. 186.) grants to John Metcalf the exclusive right,
for seven years, *of running stage wagons between the village of
Canandaigua and -the village of Buffalo, (i. e. the road by lake
Erie to Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan.)
-In Georgia, an act of November 23, 1802. gives to Nathaniel
Twining, &c. for ten years, the-sole and exclusive right of run-.
ning a line of stagi- carriages between the city of Savannah and
town of St. Marys, (on the borders of Florida.) Sec. 2, gives to
him an exclusive right of conveying passengers and their baggage,
by water, between Darien and St. Marys, (a coasting tride-be.
tween two ports of entry, if carrying passengers be n branch of
trade,) till a post road is established. An act of December 7th,'
1812, gives to William Dunham the right of running stage carriages as above. Add to these, the decision of Perrins v. Sikes,
in 1802, ( Day's Connect. Rep. in Err. p. 19.) that a grant by
the General Assembly, of an exclusive privilege to carry passen.gers by the stage, on the post road leading to Boston, as far as the
Massachusetts line, was valid, which may be added as another
legal decision on the constitutionality of those laws. Indeed, as
to the regulation of passengers arriving in ships from foreign parts,
some of the States have exercised, at least, a concurrent power.
Of that kind is the act of the State of Aew-York, (2 N. ]?. L. 440.)
and Neto-Jersey. has passed a similar law on 10th of February,
1819. (Justice'sed. N. J. Laws, 655.) So also in.Massachusette,
(2 Mass. Laws, 629.) by an act of February, 1794, masters of
vessels coming from abroad, are required to report passengers, &c.
And in Delaware, (2 Laws of Del. ed. 1797, by S. 8 J. Ada=,
c. 134. p. 13S4.) an'act to prevent infectious diseases, passed 24th
of January, 1797, (sec. 5.) enacts, that no waster, &c. of any ship
bound to any port of that State, shall bring or import any greater
a Vol. 1. Part I. App. D, p. 180.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

commerce, &c. the commerce between the indi-,
Gibbons•• viduals of the same State being reserved to the
V.
State governments.
And he repeats the. doeOgden. trine,- on the very untenable ground, that the regulAtion of commerce is not susceptible of a concurrent exercise: a doctrine which a review of
State laws will show to be 'contrary to fact and
experience. The opposite doctrine is strongly
supported by Kent, Ch. J. in Livingston v. Van
Ingen,' as the only safe and practicable rule of
conduct, and the true constitutional rule, arising
frohn the federal system. And it is the' only safe
number of passengers and servants than shall be well. provided
and supplied with good and wholesome meat, drink, and other

necessaries, particularly vinegar, as well to wash and cleanse the
vessel, as for the use of tie persons on board, during the voyage;
and it directs the size of each birth, &c.; and that if any master
shall offend, &c. he shall forfeit 600 dollars for every such offence.
Sec. 7, enacts, that every master, &c. shall pay to the physician
who boards his ship, six cents for every person lie shall import or
land in that State, which lie is thereby authorized to recover from
such passengers andoervanfs.respectively, and the physician shall
pay over the moneys so rcceived, to the treasurer of the trustees of
the poor in his county. Here is another instance inconsistent with
the positibn of the appellant's counsel, (if carrying passengers be
trading,) that a State has no right to.raise a tax or revenue by foreign trade. By another act of that State, passed February 3,
1802, the master or owner is required to give bond, that the person so imported and landed, shall not become chargeable. If the
regulation of passengers belong to commerce, and that exclusively,
(as it'must, if the*power to regulate commerce be exclusive,) by
what authority can a State Court issue a ne exeat against a trader
or merchant about to leave the State?
a p309.

9 Johme. Rep. 377, 578.

OF, THE UNITED STATES.

and practicable.rule; it is one which the extent of * 1824.
our territory would indicate, even if the govern- Gibbons
v.
ment were despotic. In China, the Mandarins of
provinces must be intrusted with some 4ubordi- ogd.
nate. authbrity, to make commercial regulations
adapted to local circumstances. With us, the
peculiar, nature and piinciples of our free an&
federative government, make the existence of such
subordinate legislation -more prudent and poiic.
There -mustbe, even in'respect to foieign commerce, local. interests and details, which cannot
well be presented to the view Qf Congress, and
can be, at least, better provided for by the State
Legislatures, iemanating from the very people to
whom they relate. This must have been perceived by the framers of the constitution, and they
must have felt tho difficulty of designating the
limits of what ought to be permitted to State
authority. They did not, therefore, attempt the
limitation, except in some plain cases, which they
marked by restrictions and prohibitionA ; but they
guarded against any'praotical abuse of the permission, by securing to Congress the paramount and
controlling, power over the whole matter. This
view of the subject is exeeedingly- strengthened,
when we contemplate the probable future increase
and extent of this confederacy. The thirteen
,original States were a band of brothers, who suffered, fought, bled, and triumphed together; thdy
might, perhaps, have safely cdnfided each his separate interest to the gefieral will ; but if ever the
day should come, when representatives from bevond the Rocky Mountains-shall sit in this -capi-

CASES IN" THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

tol; if ever a numerous and inland delegation
shall wield the exclusive power of making regulations for our fu, eign coin merce, without community of interest or knowledge of our local circumstance§, the Union will not stand ; it cannot stand;
it cannot be the ordinance of God or nature, that
it should stand. It ha' been said by very high
authority, that the power of Congress to regulate
commerce, "sweeps away the whole subject matter." If so, it makes a wreck of State legislation,
leaving only a few standing ruins, that mark the
extent of the desolation. Thb position, however,
is not correct. A power of regulating commerce
is impliedly acknowledged to be in the States, by
the 10th sectiorf of the 1s, article; for that section
makes specific limitation on its e xercise by them,
which would be unnecessary, if the power were
not possessed by them; and tacitly admits (what is
true as to all the State powers) that it is possessed
in all other matters not expressly restrained. Congress can lay no tax or duty on any articles exported from any State. If the word exports wore
not in the 10th section, what would be the consequence? that the States, and they only, could lay
duties on exports; and as it is, what is the construction ? that, although Congress can, under no
circumstances, impose a duty on exports, any
State can, with the consent of Congress, to any
amobnt; and without asking the consent of Congress, to an amount and extent necessary for executing its inspection laws ; possessing, in that respect, a power of regulating external commdrce,
which is directly withheld from Congress. And

OF THE UNITED STATES.

103

from whence is derived the power to make inspec- '1824.
tion laws, but from the existing• and more exten.
Gibbons
V.
sive right of making laws to regulate commerce ?
Ogdenr.
same
the
of
section
9th
-thie
that
It seems, also,
article, paragraph 1, in like manner, admits the
power to be in the States. The importation of
slaves is, and has always been, considered as a
branch of commerce; and it is in that point of
view only, that Congrbss has authority to legislate
on the subject. When, then, that paragraph speaks
of any of the States thinking proper to allow that
importation, it surely admits in them a right to
permit or prohibit; and thus to legislate on what
is undoubtedjy a branch of commerce with foreign
hations, or among the several States.
. Indeed, it seeins susceptible of demonstration,
that Congress did not intend to ask, nor the States
to give to that body, the exclusive power of regulating foreign commerce, or that between the
States. In Colvin's edition of the Laws of the
United States, we find the proceedings, which
led to the formaion of the General Convention. The appelant's counsel has selected, as
one of these, the representation from New-Jersey,
to be found in pages 22,23. art. 2d. But that can
soarcely be said to have led to the convention. It
was made in 1778, during the revolutionary war,
and to meet objectionable parts of the old articles
of confederation. At any rate, it appears from
page 2.5, that the proposed alterations were rejected in. Congress. In 1781,1 Mr. Witherspoon
a 1st vol.

b 1b.p. 28.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gi-,-ns
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

proposed in Congress a modified change of the
power of regulating commerce, which was also
negatived. None of the other States made any
proposition similar to that from New-Jersey, in
1778. The following, more nearly approaching
the time of the convention, better shows the extent of what Congress asked, and the States
appeared willing to concede.a "In Congress,
Wednesday, July 13th, 1785. The committee,
consisting of Mr. Monr6e, Mr. Spaight, Mr.
Houston, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. King,. to whom
was referred the motion of Mr. Monroe, submit
the following report: 'That the 1st paragrapr
of the 9th of the articles of confederation, be altered, so a- to read thus, viz. The United States in
Congress assembled, shall have the sole and exclusive right and power of determining on peate or
war, except in cases mentioned in the 6th article ;
of sending and receiving ambassadors; ebtering
into treaties and alliances; of regulating the trade
of the States, as well with foreign nations as with
each other; and of laying such imposts and duties upon imports and exports, as may be necessary
for the purpose. Provided, that the citizen4 of
the States shall, in no- instance, be subjected to
pay-higher imposts or duties than those imposed
on the subjects of' foreign powers. Provilledalso,
that the legislatirepower of the verral States,
shall not be restrained-fromprohibitingthe importation or exportation of any species of goods
or commodities Whatsoever,'" This is what the
a 1.L.U.S. p. 49, 50.

0V THE UNITED STATES.

Congress itself asked for and required. The 1824.
State of Virginia was among the first to meet its Gibbons
views; and Mr. Madison, in the Legislature of
v.
Ogden.
be
will
which
resolution,
a
proposed
that State,
found in the same book, a as follows :
" Virginia, to wit: In the House of Delegates,
Wednesday, November 30th, 1785."
[Mr. Madison's resolution for empowering Congress to regulate trade.]
" Mr. Alexander White reported, according to
order, a resolution agreed to by the committee of
the whole house, on Monday last, respecting commerce," &c.
":Whereas the relative situation of the United
States has been found, on trial, to require uniformity in their commercial regulations, as the
only effectual policy for obtaining, in the ports of
foreign nations, a stipulation of privileges reciprooal to those enjoyed by the subjects of such nations in the ports of the United States j for preventing animosities, which .cannot fail to arise
among the several States, from the interference of
partial and sepbarate regulations; and- whereas
such uniformity can be best concerted and carried
into effect by the federal councils, which, having
been instituted for the purpose of managing the
interests of the States, in cases which cannot so
well be provided for by measures individually pursued, ought to be invested with authority in tkh'.
case, as being within the reason and policy ,.f
their institution*
a.O.53.
VOL. 1X.

CASGS IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
GbnsGibbons

V.
Ogden.

"Resolved,

That it is the- opi nion of this cowmittee, that the delegates representing this Conmonwealth in Congress, be instructed to propose
in Congress a recommendation to the Stptes in,
the Union, to. authorize that assembly to regulate
their trade on the following principles, and under
the following qualifications: 1st. Giving power to
Congress to prohibit foreign vessels from entering
any port, or to impose duties on them and their
cargoes; such duties to be uniform, and carried
into the treasury of the State. 2d. That no State
be at liberty to impose duties on any goods, wares,
or merchandise imported, by land or by'water,
.from any other State; but may altogetherprohibit the importationfrom any State, of anyparticular species or description of goods, wares
or merehandise, of which the importationis, at
the same time, prohibitedfrom all other places
whatsoever." In each of those proceedings, it was
clearly contemplated, that the individual States
should at least retain the power of absolutelyprohibitingthe importation of any article they thought
fit, within their own respective limits. How fhr
was this intention subsequently departed from ?
Where is the power of prohibiting the exportation
or importation of any article taken from the States
by the constitution? They are indeed qualifiedly
restrained from laying imposts or duties on exports
or imports, but not from entirely prohibiting their
exportation or importation; and they are, also restrained from laying any duty on' tonnage; and it
is, perhaps, the fair construction of the instrument, that ev en *their prohibitory legislation, is

OF THE UNITED STATES.

under the control of Congress, as having the pa- 1824.
ramount authority to regulate commerce; but valid Gibbons
v.
until Congress shall have made regulations incongden.
sistent with their laws. A review of some of the
have
they
that
show
will
States,
laws of different
always exercised the power of making very material regulations respecting commerce. This review must be abridged; but it is of. extreme importance, and if it were possible to spread out in
detail the immense mass of State laws, regulating
and affecting foreign commerce, and that among
the States, it would be conclusively seen, that they
have always considered thetnselves as possessing,
and have, accordingly, exercised a concurrent
power over both those branches of trade; and
that the power of Congress cannot be decided to
be exclusive, without declaring to be unconstitutional, an appalling body of State legislation.
To begin with the laws respecting slaves. The
appellant's counsel has questioned their constitutionality, and called them of doubtful .authority.
£hat expression showed he felt their application
and important bearing, if their constitutionality
be admitted; and it has never before been called
in question. The constitution most clearly admits
the right of the States to legislate on thissubject,
not merely till 1808, but always, unless Congress
should prohibit the trade; and yet, as has been
already suggested, slaves are treated in that very
paragraph itself, as an article of commerce oi
trade. Congress, renouncing for a time the paramount right to prohibit their importation, claims
the right to lay a tax or duty on it. So also, they

CASES TN THE SUPREME COURT

are treated as an article of commerce in the law8
Gibbons ~ of Congress; for it is only under the power to
V'. regulate foreign commerce, that, before f808,
Ogden. they could forbid and make penal, the trade by
our citizens to foreign nations, and since, 1808,
prohibit it entirely. In this point of"view it was
also considered, and the right of the States to
prohibit it asserted, in the debates of the Virginia
convention. On. this article Mr. George Mason
observed, "should the government be amended,
still this detestable kind of commerce cannot be
discontinued till after the expiration of twenty
years." To which Mr. Madison, in reply, says,'
" We are not in a worse situation than before.
Tuat traffic is prohibited by our laws, and we
may continue the prohibition. The Union, in
general, is not in a worse situatiQn. Under the
prticles of the confederation, it might be oontinued for ever." And again,; "as to-the restriction
in the clause under consideration, it was a restraint
on the exercise of a power expressly delegated to
Congress, namely, that of regulating commerce
with foreign nations." Mr. George Nicholas
also, alluding to both objections, says,' "Virginia. might continue the prohibition of such importation during the intermediate period." And to
obviate the objection, that the restriction of Con
gress was a proof that they would have power not
1324.

a-p. 321,
b p. 322.
c P. 323.
dp S824-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

gizven t6 them, lie remarked, " that. they would 1824.
only have had a general superintendency !f t'ade, .Gibbonw
.4 ,
if the restriction had not been inserted. But the
v.
southern States insisted on this exception to that Dgdt.
general superintendency for twenty, years. It
could not, therefore, have been a power by implication, as the restriction was an exception to a
delegated power." And, finally, Governor Randolph says,a " the power respecting the importation of negroes, is an exception from the power
gven to Congress to regulatecom~ierce." The
same doctrine is also maintained in the Federalist.'
Let us then. see the laws that liave been made by
sord of the different States respecting this branch
lof trade;
4 p. 330.
1 No. 42.
c New-York, as wellas many other'States, prohibited the importation and exportation of slaves before the adoption of the
constitution. The first law was passed iiFebruary, 1788; (2
Greesleaf, 85.) it prohibits the selling of an imported slave, and
the buying of a slave with intent to export, him: and subsequent
laws have confirmed and increased the prohibition of exporting
and- importing slaves. It may be proper hereto observe, as applicable to this, as well as to many other laws of the States respecting commerce, that if, after the'adoption of the constitution, the
individual States had not-a right -to make them, they, and all other
previously made similar laws, would, by force of that disqualification, have beeome inoperative.
In 1792, lhe State of Virginia passed a law prohibiting the importation or selling of imported slaves. (1 Pleasanta4f Paeeaeed.
p. 186. sec..13.) In Delaware, (Laws of Del. ed. of 1797, by
S. 8 J. Adams, p. 942.) -anact passed February 3, 1789r, enacts,
that if any o vner. master, &. shall fit out, equip, man, or otherwise prepare any ship oi'vessel, within.any port. or .place in that

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

Indeed, Congress itself has recognised and aot-

i
Gibbons

ed on the power of the States to prohibit this
trade. The constitution restrained Congress (as

v.
Ogden.

State, or shall cause any vessel to sail from any port or place in that
State, for the purpose of carrying on a trade or (rajic in slaves,
to, or from, or between Europe, Asia, Africa, or America, or
any places or countries whatsoever, or of. transp6rting slaves to
or from one port or place to another, in any part of the world,
such ship, &c. her tackle, &c. shall be forfeited to the State, and
shall be liable to be seized and prosecuted by any officer of the
customs, by information, &c. And, moreover, every person so
fitting out, &c. shall severally forfeit and pay the sum of 500
pounqs, one half to the use of the State, the other half to the
informer. It further enacts, that if any person shall export, or
sell, with intention to export or carry out for sale, any negro or
mulatto slave, from that State tq Maryland, Virginia, either of
the Carolinas, Georgia, or the West Indies, without licen e or
permit of five Justices, &c. he shall pay, for every slave so
exported, t00 pounds, and for every attempt so to do, 20 pounds,
one half to the use of the State, and one half to the informer.
Here is a State law minutely controlling a branch of foreign trade,
and of that between the States, and operating explicitly by the
officers of the customs. It was passed, indeed, a few weeks
before the present constitution went into operation, but long after
it had been accepted by Delaware; at all events, it is referred to,
and confirmed, byan act, passed June 24, 1793, (c. 22. p. 1094.)
requiring bail as to those offences.
In Pennsylvania, (Bioren's ed. Vol. 2. p. 443.) an act was
passed, March, 1788, also prohibiting the trade; but, before examining it, let it be remembered, that the first law Congress
passed on that subject, was in 1794, and that Pennsylvania had
accepted the constitution in December, 1787, which, at the time
of passing this act, she had recently studied and discussed. Her
legislation, then, was not founded on, and did not rely on, any lav
of Congress in pari materid. She not only prohibited the exportation and importation of slaves, but, by sec. 5. of that act, prohibits the building, fitting out, 4,c. of any vessel for the slave
trade, or to sail from the port for that trade, under thepenalty
qf for feiture of the vessel, 4-c. and 1000 pounds ky/ qui tam.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

has been already seen) from prohibiting the irportation of negroes, &c., before 1808. But in
1803, it passed "an act to prevent the importation
At that time, Congress absolutely permitted the slave trade; but,
would not that law have been valid to prohibit it from that port?
New-Jersey passed a law to the same purport, in March, 1798,
(Patterson'sed. p. 307. Justice's ed. p. 371, 372, 3 '3.) when
CoAgress bad only prohibited, and could only prohibit, the trade
as a foreign trade. Sec. 12, 13. prohibit the importation of

slaves for sale. See. 17', 18, 19. prohibit the slave trade, and the
fitting out of vessels, for the purpose of transporting slaves from
oneplace to another, clearly including from one State to another,
which Congress then could not do.
Connecticut, in October, 1788, after she and nine States had
ratified the constitution, (Hudson 4f Goodwn's ed. p. 626.) forbade
any citizen or inhabitant of that State, either as mast&, factor,
supercargo, owner, or hirer of any vessel, directly or indirectly,
to transport., or buy, or sell, or receive on board his vessel, with
intent to cause to be transportedor imported, any of the inhabitantsof Africa, as slaves, with gui tan penalties; and made all
insurances on them void. And, in 1792, (p. 628.) let it be still
remembered, when Congress had no such power, she enacted,
that no citizen or inhabitant of that State should transport out
of the State, for the purpose of selling into any other State,
country or kingdom, or buy or sell; with intent to transport out of
that State, or should sell, if transjorfed, &c. In Massachusetts,

(1 Laws of M11ass. 407, 408.) an act, passed March 26, 1788, reciting the evils of the African tra4e, enacts, that no citizen of
that Commonwealth, or other person residing witilin the same,
shlol, for himself or any other person, as masterj factor, supercargo, owner or hirer, in whole or in part, of any vessel, directly
or indirettly, import or transport, or buy, or sell, or receive on
board his or their vessels, with intent to cause to be imported or
transported, 'any of the inhabitants of any state or kingdom, in
that part of the world called Africa, as slaves, &c. under a penalty
for every vessel fitted out with such intent, and actually employed,
&c. Doubtless, the laws of other States might be produced to the
same purpose, if the means of examination had been convenient;

1824.
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbon
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

of certain persons into certain, States, where, by
the laws thereof, their importation is prohibited."
Proceeding upon the right of the several States to
prohibit,and acting under its gener al power to regulate commerce, it imposes additional penalties
on the importing or landing of any negro, mulatto,
or person of colour, &c., in any State which, by
law, has prohibited, or shall prohibit, their admission or inportationa.' And it makes it the duty of
the officers of the customs, to notice and be governed by the provisions of the laws of the several
States prohibiting their importation or admission;
and enjoins it on them vigilantly to carry into effect the said laws .of such States, any law of the
United States to the contrary notwithstanding.
How could- Congress do this, if the power of prolhibiting the trade were not unquestionably possessed by the States, in 'their sovereign capacity ?
The quarantine laws further illustrate our position. The appellant's counsel says; these are to
be considered merely as laws of police; they are
laws of police, but they are also laws of cornmerce; for such is the nature of that commerce,
which we are told nqust be regulated exclusively
by Congress, that it enters into, and mixes itself
with, almost all the concerns of life. But surely
that furnishes an argument, showing the necessity
those already cited, however, are sufficient to shov, that the individual States regulated the slave trade, as a Irade, both with foreign
nations, and between the States) by virtue of their own sovereign
authority, afier the adoption of the constitution - but before Congress did, and before they could do it:
a 3 U. S. L. p. 529.

F THE UNITED STATES.

that the States should have a cancurrent power
over it.- Judge Tucker considers them as laws of
commerce, when he says," "another consequence
of the right of regulating foreign commerce, seems
to be, the power of compelling vessels infected
with any contagious disease, or arriving from places usually infected with them, to perform their
quarantine. . The laws of the respective States
upon this subject, were, by some persons, supposedto have been virtually repealed b&the constitution of the United States:" (and why must not
that be the case, if the power of Congress regulating commerce be exclusive ?) "but Congress have
manifested a different interpretation of that instrument, and have passed several acts for giving aid and
effect to the execution of the laws of the several
States respecting quarantine." It will be recollected, that the first rec6gnition by Congress of
the quarantine laws, was in 1796; and that only
directs the officers of tle government to obey them;
but does not pretend, or attempt, to legalize them.
And, indeed, it could not do so, if the States had
no concurrent power, and the regulation of commerce was exclusively delegated to Congress;
for the power which is exclusively delegated to
Congress, can only be exercised by Congress itself, and cannot be sub-delegated by it. It is,
therefore, no reply to the force of the argument
drawn from those laws, to say, that they have bben
ratified.by Congresg. Another answer to that observation is, that the supposed ratification by Cona Tuck. Black..part ist. Appen. D. p. 2M.
VOL. X.
15

1824.
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
G
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

gress did not take place until 1796; and that many of those laws were in active operation several
years before. For instance, as few out of many:
New Hampshire passed her quarantine laws first,
February 3d, 1789,a and again on the 25th of September, 1792.1 Connecticutpassed hers in May,
1795.0 The laws of Maryland"show the temporary continuation of those laws in that State, from
1784 to 1785, from 1785 to 1792, from 1792 to
1799, and so down to 1810 ; and the 2d vol.' contains a law passed in November, 1793, giving to
the Governor the strongest powers on the subject.
The State of Virginiapassed, 26th of December,
17923- "an act reducing into one the several acts
to oblige vessels coming from foreign parts, to
perform quarantine ;" which act was amended on
the 5th of December, 179 3;T and further amended
on the 19th of December, 1795.' Georgiapassed
her quarantine law December 17th, 1793.' Undoubtedly those laws derive their efficacy from the
sovereign authority of the States; and they expressly restrain,, and indeed prohibit, the entry of
vessels into part of the waters and ports of the
States. They are all so similar, that one or two
a Melchrs ed. p. 302.
b F. 304.
CP. 611.

d 1 vol. p. 270.
e p. 200.
f 1 vol. p. 244.
gFp. 313.
h p. 349.

i Marbury 4' Crawfdrd' Dig. p. s9s.

OF THE UNITED STATES

115

may suffice as examples. The quarantine law of 1824.
Georgia, s.1. prohibits the landing of personis or GibbV-%
Gibbonit
V.
goods coming in any vessel from an infected place,
Ogden.
and
authority;
proper
the
from
permission
without
enacts, that the said vessels or boats, and the persons and goods coming and imported in, or going
on board during the time of quarantine; and all
ships, tessels, boats, and persons, receiving any
person or goods under quarantine, shall be subject to such orders, rules and directions, touching
quarantine, as shall be made by the authority directing the same. The law of Delaware, passed
the 24th of January, 1797," s.1. provides, that "no
master of a ship bound to any part of that State,
having onboard any greater number of passengers
than forty, or any person with an infectious .disease, or coming from a sickly port, shall bring his
ship, or suffer it to be brought, nearer than one
mile to any port or place of landing; nor land such
persons, or their goods, till he shall have obtained a permit." The law of Massachusetts, passed
June 22d, 1797, s.6.b enacts, that "vessels passing
the castle, in Boston harbour, may be questioned
and detained ; s. 12. that vessels at any other port
than Boston, may be prevented from coming up,
and brought to anchor where the select men
shalldirect; s.4. empowers the select men of any
town, bordering on either of the neighbouring
States, to appoint persons to attend at ferries and
other proper places, by or over which passengers
a 2 De. Laws, ed. 1797, cap. 134. p. 1354.
6 2 Mass. Laws, p. 788.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
"
'Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

may pass from such infected places, which persons
have power to examine, stop and restrain such passengers from travelling, until licensed by a Justice
of the peace, or the select men; and a fine of 100
pounds is enacted on 'the passenger presuming to
travel onward ; s. 5. gives power to seize and detain suspected goods coming from any other State,"
&c! By an act of June 20th, 1799, s. IO.a "any
master, &c. who shall enter the harbour of Boston
after notice of a quarantine, for all vessels coming
from the same place, &c., or who shall land, or
suffer to be landed, any passenger or goods, without permission of the board of health, is subject to
fine and imprisonment." These are all obviously
direct regulations of trade, and so is the whole of
every quarantinc system.
The regulation of pilots in sea ports, flows from
the power of regulating external commerce. This
power, like that of making quarantine regulations,
has hitherto been exclusively exercised by the several States; Congress having only made one law
on the subject, and that seems explicitly to rbcognise the concurrent power of the States, and to
place over it the true constitutional cbntrol. By
the 4th sec. of the act of August 7th, 1789, c.9.' it
is enacted, that "all pilots in the bays, inlets, rivers, harbours and ports of the United States, shall
continue to be regulated in conformity with the
existing laws of the States, respectively, wherein
such pilots may be; or with such laws as the States
a p. 872.
h 2 U S. L. p. 3,j

OF THE UNITED STATES.,

may respectively hereafter enact for the purpose, 1824.
until further legislative provision shall be made
V.
by Congress." Now, it is 4 principle which canOgden.
enforced,
or
view
into
brought
often
not be too
that Congress cannot delegate to State Legislatures, the exercise of powers which are- given to
it exclusively; and the very act of referring to
those laws, is a recognition that the power to. legislate on-the subject is copcurrent.
In like manner, the laws regulating.light houses,
buoys, &c. are all exercises of the implied powers
derived from that ofregulating commerce. They
have hitherto been generally left to Congress; but
it does not follow from thence, that they are exclusive. Can it-be doubted, that any State has a
right to establish a light house or buoys at its own
That a State
expense, in .one of its harbours
has such a power cannot be questioned, if it be
shown that inidividuals have. Sme time in 1798,
a number of the inhabitants of New-Bedford, gassachusetts, raised a fund by subscription, for building and maintaining a. light house at Clbrk's
Point, at the entrance of the harbour of New-Bedford. They maintained it, 'and kept it regularly
lighted for about a year.; and the act of Congress
admits their rightto do so. On the 29th-of April,
1800; Congress enacted, . that the light house
lately erected at Clark's P nt, &c., shall and may
be supported'at the expen of the United Statds,
&c. Provided,that the property and jurisdiction
of the said light house, and sufficient territory for
a 3 . &,Z.p. 3i6.c. 193. s.3S.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

the accommodation thereof, shall be fully ceded
and legally vested in the United States.
The laws of Congress on this subject, recognise
the right of the States to maintain light houses, if
they please. The first act, passed August 7th,
I 789,a directs, that their expenses, after the 15th of
August, 1789, shall be defrayed out of the treasury of the United States: Provided,nevertheless,
that none of the said expenses shall continue to
be so defrayed by the United States, after the expirdtion of one year, unless such light houses shall,
in the mean time, be ceded, &c. Few States did
make the requisite cession ; and by the act of July,
1790, the time was extended to the 1st of July,
1791, and so, from. time to time, for five or six
years, till all the State ; came in ; -during which
the light houses in sever dI of the States were kept
up by their authority, without the control of Congress.
The inspection laws are very important regulations of trade. Tucker says, " there seems to
be one class of lIws, which respects foreign commerce, over which the States still retain an absolute authority; those I mean which relate to the
inspection of their own produce, for the execution
of which, they may even lay an impost or duty, as far
as may be absolutely necessary for that purpose.
Of this necessity, it seems presumable, they are
to be regarded as the sole judges." The extent

a 2 U..L.p. 54.
b 2 U S. L. p. 121.

. OF THE UNITED STATES.

and importance of this system of regulations 1824.
does.not strike the mind at the first view; nor do Gibbons
the powerful inferences it affords, to show te conv.
Ogden.
commerce.
regulate
to
States
the
in
right
current
Judge Tucker has very imperfectly stated their
extent. They do, indeed, regulate, in almost
every State, the foreign trade, so far as it is connected with our produce to be exported; but they
do not confine themselves to produce to be exported) they relate to imports also. They act by
restraining, and sometimes prohibiting, the exportation and importation of certain articles. Before
examining those laws, it may be asked, from
whence is the right of restrainingdqtived, but
from the more, extended right of prohibiting?
The difference between. regulationor restraining
and interdiction,is only a difference of degree in
the exercise of the same right, and not a difference of right.. The article in the constitution,
art. 1. sec. 10. impliedly allows that right to be in
the several States, and the right to enforce their
laws by any other means than imposts and duties,
end, therefore, by prohibitiogsof exports or imports. The right does not. depend on the idea,
that the thing prohibited or restrained from being
exported or imported, is dangerous or nwzious;
even if that could, ex necessitate, create a right,
and give it to the State, instead of the congressional jurisdiction.; on the contrary, the rules and
enactmefits seem arbitfar, .a
a For instance, as to the number of hoops o, and size of barrelsor casks, (2 N.R.L. ofN.Y. p. 321.s.5. p. 325.a. 3.p.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824:
Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

As to trade with the Indian tribes, wiihout stopping to enter into details, it is sufficient to say, it
must stand on the same footing as foreign con330. s. 3, 4. 1 Laws of Maryland, Maxey's ed. 218. 1 Vir.
Laws, Pace 4 Pleasant'sed. p. 352. s. 3. p. 350. s. 3. Laws of
Conn. Hudson 8 Goodwin's ed. p. 394. s. 1, 2. 5, 6. 8, 9.) as to
quantity as well as quality ur kind, of their contents. What pieces
of beef or pork, (2 N. R. L. of N. Y. p. 326. s. 4. p. 326. s. 5.
91 p. 327. s. 11.) or quantity and size of nails should be in one
cask, (Laws of N. H. Al.elcher's ed. S86. Laws of Conn. p.
394. s. 2. p. 256. s. 2.) or the length, breadth, and thickness of
staves and heading, lumber, boards, shingles, &c. (2 N. R. L. of
N. Y. p. 336. s. 1. 1 Laws of Vir. 237. Laws bf Conn. p. 397.
s. 21.) These 'egulations have no object but to improve our
foreign trade, and raise the character and reputation of the articles in a foreign market; and if the States-have no right to pass
laws prohibiting exportation, what can preventa person having an
inferior article, from exporting it, in its uninspected state, anti
taking his chance for the price it might bring in a foreigtn market,?
These laws are much too numerous and complicated to be detailed; but a very slight examination of some of them will show
the very extensive powers for regulating commerce, possessed by
the Legislatures from which they emanate. Some operate by the
.forfeiture of the uninspected article, as in the New-York act for
inspecting pot and peail ashes. (2 N.R:L. p. 335. s. 8.) It gives
the liberty of entering on bocrd of any ship, &c. to search for
any pot or pearl ashes, shipped or shipping for exportation; and, if
any nbranded lediscovered, it is forfeited,and the captain subject to a pecuniary fine. A similarforfeitureis given in the samie
State, (p. 33D. s. 8.) and a penalty &athe mrnster. (p. 339, 340.
s. 10.) In Kentucky, a similarforfeiture is yiven, for attempting
to export unbranded flour. (Ky. Laws, Toulman's ed. 440.) In
New-Hampshire, a like forfeiture is giveq of unpacked beef or
pork shipped for exportatiou. (Laws of N. H. p. 387,388.) And
in Connecticut, a forfeiture is given of unbranded nails. (Laws
of Conn. p. 527. s. 5.) Virginia has enacted a forfeiture of unbranded fish, and a penalty on the master. (1 Laws of Va. p. 353.
s. 6.) She has not only done the same in respect to lumber, but

OF THE UNITED STATES.

merce and that among the States, as they are all
given in the same sentence. If the power of regulating the two latter be exclusive, so nust it be
she has gone much farther, and acted on tie collector and officer*
of the customs. (1 Laws of Va. p. 238. . 4.) The collector, or
other proper officer of the customs, is thereby chargedand directed not to suffer any vessel'to clear from his office, unless the
master, &c. shall produce inspection notes or* certificates, &c.
and make oath that he has no lumber on board, but what is entered on his manifest. To this exercise of power, equal to that
of Congress itself, I probably shall be told, that Congress has, in
the collection laws, directed the collectors to Ray regard-to the.
inspection laws of the respective States. That is at least-an admissipn that they are rightfully made; but the answer is en, ely
insufficient; for the first act of the United States, directing thig;
was passed the 2d of March, 1799, and the act of Viruinia, that
I have last referredto, was passed the 26th of December, 1792.
In like manner, the laws of-the same State give a forfeiture of
uninspected tobacco, about to be exported, and similar duties are
imposed on the master and collector. (1 Laws of Va. p. 263.
s. 27. p. 269. s. 45. p. 271. s. 49.) This law was also passed in
November, 1792. Connecticut, too, gives a forfeiture of unsur.,
veyed tobacco; (1 Laws of Conn. p. 395. s. 13.) and, as to provisions, it also enacts a penalty against the master, and imposes a
duty on the collector. (p. 397. s. 20. p. 303.s. l. p. 407. s. S.)
Several of those inspection acts regulate as to the importation
of articles, equally with their exportation. The New-York act,
relative to the inspection of sole leather, expressly says, " W hether such leather be manufactured within the same, or imported
or brought into it from any place whatsoever." (2 N. R. L. p.
340. s. 2.) In Maryland, the act for the inspection of salted provi.
sions, exported and imported from and to Baltimore4j relates to
beef, pork and fish," imported into the said town, from any part
of this State, or any one of the United States, or from any foreign port whatever." (2 Laws of Afaryland, p. 3. s. 5.) Sie. 6
relates to'the size, quality, and make of all imported beef and
pork barrels. This act, it is true, was passed in 1786, before
ihe adoption of the constitution. If the power of Cdagress, howVOL. IX.
A

1824.
Gibbo
Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

CASES IN 'HE SUPREME COURT

1824.

with the former. And yet every State, whose
G-lo
Gitobous . situation places it in communication or contiguity
V.
with -Indian tribes, has thought fit, and, indeed,
Ogden.
ever, was exclusive, it should then have ceased to operate. But
the akgument does not stop there. In 1796i it was extendea to
Havrede Grace, (p. 335. s. 9.) and in 1797 to Chester. (p. 369.
s. 9.) The act of the, same State, for the gauge of barrels for
pork, beef, pitch, taf and turpentine, and tae of barrels for flour and
bread, continued.by several statutes dowh to 1810, and probably to
the present'time, prohibits the importation, by land or water, of
those articles, except in barrels of certain dimensions and contents.
In Vitginia, the act for the inspection of fish, passed in December,
179, .sec. 6. provideg for the inspection of imported fish, as welf
as of baht p^ked for exportation; and it also enacts a fofeiturc
of the articre, and a penalty on the master. (1 Laws of Va.
p.352, s.3.) In Penunylwm&rhqIhe act providing for the inspectfon of
gunp6wder, relates to the inspection 6f imported as well as maiifactured; and gives a forfeiture of the article for selling insported
gunpowdeir Without inspection. (3 Lawe of Penn. p.240.) And an
antecedent lah of March, 1787, directs the captain of evteryvessel,
importinggunpowder into the port of Philadelphia, under a penalty
.and forfeiture of the article, if it be-his own propeity, to deliver it
.at a magazine, and directs the he.1lth officer to give strangers notice
of the act, and also enjoins the custom-house and naval oficers, and
theirdeputies,to do the same?.' (2 Laws of Penn. p. 40 2 . s. 3.) In

New-Hampshire, (Laws of N. H. ed. of 1815. p. 460Y.) by the act
relating to gunpowder, sec. 2. it iq enacted, that every, master of
any.merchant vessel bringing gunpowder into Portsmouth, shall,
within.forty-eight hours, deposit it in a magazine, afid, on neglect,
shall pay a fine of 30 pounds to the poor of Portsmouth. See. 13.
directs a keeper of the magazine to be chosen, viho shall be entitled to a fee on all he shall receive -and, deliver out; another instance of what thq appellaunt's c9unsel has declared to be unconstitutional, tho raising'of revenue by a State law from foreign commerce. In dassachusetts, (2 Mass. Laws, p. 37.) the act of
June 19, 1801, sec. 1. directs imported gunpowder,'landed, at
the port of Boston, to be deposited in a magazine. And by see. 3.
1o Canpowder shall -be kept on board- any, ship or other vesse),

OF THE UNITED STATES.

found it necessary, by acts of their own Legislatures, to regulate their trade with the Indians,
.
the laws of Congress not only not exhausting, but
not even adequately reaching the subject.
It now seems incontrovertibly established, that
the States have a concurrent right to legislate on
matters of foreign trade, or of that between the
States; and a concurrent right to prohibit the exportation or importation of articles of merchandise. If they can do that, even as to the articles
themselves, to which the power of Cbngress expressly relates, and if the right to regulate shipping be only impliedly given to Congress, by the
general power to regulate commerce, and only so
far- as they are instruments of that commerce,
why cannot a State, that has a concurrent right,
within its own sphere, (and that not by implication,
but directly, and as -the result of its sovereign
power, unabridged and unaltered by the onstitution,) over all ships or vessels within, or coming
within, its jurisdiction, prohibit the entry of any
particular kind of vessels within its waterssubject
lying to or grounded at any wharf in Boston, under pin of co fiscation and pecuniary penalty.
More extensive examinations would produce a much greater
variety of regulations of foreign commerce, and that between th,.
States, made by State Legislatures; but only one more instance
need be added, not indeed coming under any of the preceding
heads. In Virginia, the act laying taxes for the supportof government, passed, in January; 1799, prohibits -unlicensedmercliant
from selling, by wholesale or retaij, goods of foreign growth or
manufacture, on land, or on boardof any vessel. (1 Laws of Va.
p. 386. s. 2.) The same law has been renewed, from time to
time; and it probably exists at.this da.

123

1824.
Giblintu

v.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
d ibbons

v.
Ogden.

always to be controlled by the contradictory and
paramount regulations of Congress, made within
the sphere of its powers.
This leads tothe consideration of anargument
that has been frequently urged on this subject.
It is said, that if a State has a right to prohibit the
navigation of its waters to steam boats, it has an
equal right to prohibit the same navigation to row
boats or sailing vessels; and the extravagance of
this position, it is supposed, sufficiently refutesthe
assertion of a more limited right. First, there is an
error in.the statement of our claim, We do not
prohibit the navigation of our waters to steam
boats; we only prohibit them, while in our wdters,
from using steam as the means of their propulsion.
Every steam boat which ventures on the ocean,
carries and uses sails; and they can, without difficulty, be adapted to every steam boat. Such a
vessel, therefore, may, without objection, load in a
different State, or foreign port, and come, by
means of steam, to the verge of our waters; there
is no difficulty, opposed to its coming up, with its
full cargo, to our custom house, entering, discharging, reloading, and departing, provided that,
for the short space of time while it may be in our
waters, it employs the only things thaf any other
vessel can employ for entering and departing, and
fith which t is or may be amply provided-sails
and oars. That is the extent of what is very inconsiderately called our extravagant claim. Let
us now examine the argument itself, and to test its
soundness, let us apply it to other cas6s. A State
has no right to prohibit the use of narrow wheeled

OF THE UNITED STATES.

wagons for the transportation ,of merchandise on 1824..
any of its roads: for if it can do that, it can pro- Gibbons
v.
hibit the use of any kind of wagons, and, indeed,
Ogden.
its
of
any
on.
all transportation of merchandise
roads, and thus affect the commerce between different States. A State has no right to regulate
the assize of bread; for if it can do that, it can
prohibit all baking of bread, and thus starve the
community. Is there any one act of legislation
against which the same reasoning, drawn from anexcessive and tyrannical exercise "of legislative
authority, may not be urged? And if the argument be unsound, when applied to all those instances, what makes it "sound in its application to
the present question? The answer to it is found
in the rights of a free people, which make every
act of tyranny void. But, either the right entirely
to prohibit the use of row boats,. sailing vessels,
and steam boats, belongsto some of the constituted
authorities that govern those States, or it does not.
If it does not belong to any of them, then, clearly,
this boasted argument falls to the ground. If it
does belong to some of them, to whom does it
belong? Has Congress the power to make such
a prohibition of all modes of cQmmercial intercourse, by virtue of its limited authority to regulate commerce with foreign powers, and between
the different States? In answering "no, the embargo laws are fully remembered, and their constitutionality admitted; but it is not derived from the
power to regulate commerce. The embargo was
a measure of State policy, nearly approaching to
war: it may sometimes be of such a character as

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

12,6
1824.

to derive a legitimate origin from the war making

'power;
Gibbons

but the embargo of 1807 rests for its con-

v.

Ogden.

stitutionality on the -power in Congress of providing for the common defence and general welfare of the United States. If, then, the power of
entirely prohibiting trade, as a commercial measure, exists in some of the governing powers of
those States, qnd does not exist in Congress,
where does it exist? Assuredly in the State Legislatures. If its exerbise should ever become void,
it Will not be because it is contrary to the constitution of the United States, but because il, is oppressive to the people it affects to bind; not because it is unconstitutional, but because it is
tyrannical.
Congress itself seems to acknowledge that the'
constitution does not deprive the States of this
prohibitory power; for, if it did, as it binds all
the citizens of the United States, it would necessarily bind the territorial governments, and
all
States admitted into the Union subsequent to its
adoption. Yet, in the ordinance of the 13th of
July, 1787, for the government of the territory of
the United States north west of the river Ohio,'
by ait. 4th, for the government of the said territory, and the States which ma be formed therein,
it is provided, among other matters, that "the
navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and
St. Lawrence, and the carrying .places between
the same, shall be common highways, and for ever
free, as well to the inhabitants of the, said terria I L. U.S. p. 47.

ed. 1815.

OF THE UITED STATES.

tory, as to.thb citizens of the United States, and 1824.
those of any other States that may be admitted into -Gibbo"
the Confederacy, without any tax, impost, or dutyv.
thereon" It. is made a'fundamental provision OgdEm
of the different acts erecting portions of this territory into States, that their constitutions shall
not be repugnant to this ordinance. In the act
also for erecting the State o[ Louisiana, see. 3.
it is enacted, that the convention for maling the
cons titution,-shall provide by an ordinance, irrevocable without the consent of the United States,
among other things, "that the river Mississippi,
and the navigable waters leading into the saine,
or into the gulf of Mexico, shall be common
highways, and for ever free' as well 'o the inhabitants of the said State, as to the other citizens of -the United States, without any tax, duty,
impost. or toll therefoi, imposed by the said
State." The same was also done with- regard to
the "States of Mississippi and Missouri. Now,
this provision, so studiously introduced into all
those *new compacts, which Congress had: a right
to make with new States.,.as'the condition of their
adimittance into -the Union, would be very singular, and very useless, if,-by-an effect gf.the Union
itself, all, navigable wateri belonged exclusively
to the general government; or if the federal constitution, wl~ich each State adopted, contained -in
itself an equiyalent restraint on the States. The
appellant's. coqnsel has alluded to-and denhied-a
position, stated to have been used by counsel in
-arguing the case of Livingston v. Van 12gez,
before the' Court'of Errors,. that the Legislature
might, if it thought fit, stop -up th mouth of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Tludson. It is of very little importance to defend
Gibb us what fell, on that occasion. from counsel,. and has
V. not been adopted by the Court; still, the learned
Ogdm counsel may be asked, by whit authority the State
1824.

of Rhode Island has erected a bridge over the
Seakonnet branch of Taunton river, essentially
impairing, if not :destroying, its navigation from
the sea, and far 1 elow whare the tide ebbs and
flows? By what authority his native, State of
New-Hampshire has erected a bridge foin Portsmouth over the Piscataqua river? By what authority his adopted State of Massachu*setts has
built two bridges over Charles river, on its tide
waters, one near Boston, and the other higher
up? and, by what authority the State of Pennsylvania has built a dam over the Schuylkill, near
Philadelphia, and three miles below where tile
tide used previou ly to ebb and flow?
There, however, is, in faet, no regulation of
commerce, made by Congress, with which this
exclusive right does or can interfere. What is
that degree or kind of interference, which is sufficient to invalidate a State law?
The Federalist," discussing the cases where
powers are exclusively delegated to the United
States, makes one of the classes, (and, perhaps, un
necessarily, if not incorrectly,) where the consitution granted an authority to the Union, to which
a similar authority in the States, would be, absolutely and totally, contradictoryand repugnant ;
and then goes on: "I use these terms to distin.
guish this last case from inother, which.might apa TDe

eeraliat, No. 32.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

14

pear to resemble it; but which would, in fact, be 1824.
essentially.different: I mean, where the exercise
V.
of a concurrent jurisdiction might be productive
any Ogden.
of
policy
the
in
interferences
of occasional
branch of administration, but would not imply any
direct contradiction or repugnancy, in"point of constitutional authority." And again: "IL is not,
however, a mere possibility of inconvenience in the
exercise of powers, but an immediate constitutional
repugnancy, that can, by implication, alienate and
extinguish a pre-existing right of sovereignty."
That the third class of cases,'as arranged by the
Federalist,is unnecessary in its application to any
of the powers, and that it is derived from an erroneous -aotion, as to the possibility of repugnancy
and its consequences, seems to follow, from the
principles laid down by Thompson, J~in Livingston v. Pan Ingen.a "There are subjects upon
which the United States and the individual States
must, of necessity, have concurrent jurisdiction;
and all fears and apprehensions of collision in the
exercise of these powers, which have been urgedin argument, are u. 5unded. The constitutionhas
guardedagainst such an event, by providingthat
the laws of the United States shall be the supreme
law of the land,anythingin the constitutionof any
State to the contrary notwithstanding. In case
of collision, therefore, the State laws inust yield
to the superior authority of the United States."
The same doctrine is very ably maintained by
Kent, Ch. J. who gives, as a safe rule of construca 9 Johns. Rep. p. 568.
b 9 Johns. Rip. p. 575, 576.

VOL. IX.

IT

CASES "I THE sUPRE:MXE COURT

130
1824.
'originally
Gibbons-

v.

Ogden.

tion and of action, "that'if eny given power was
vested in this State,
if it lus not been
•
exclusively ceded to Congres, or if the exercise of
i
it has not been, prohibited to. the States. we may
then go on in the exercise of the power, until it
comes practically in collision with the actual exercise of some congressional power." When that
happens to be -the case. the State authority will
so far be controlled; but it.will still be good in all
those respects, in which it does not absolutely contravene the provision 6f the paramount law."
The same doctrine is very briefly, -but'very
clearly laid down, by Mr. Ch. J. Marshall, in the case
of Sturges v. Crowninshield : "It is not the mere
existence of the power, but its exercise, which is
incompatible with the exercise of the same power
by the States." In Houston v. Moore,' Mr. J.
Story, however, adopts the arrangement of the
Federalist,and goes en: "In all other cases, not
falling within the classes already mentioned, it
seems unquestionable, that the States retain concurrent authority with Congress, not only upon the
letter and. spirit of the 11th amendment of the
constitution, but upon the soundest principles o
general reasoning. There is this reserve, however, that in cases of concurrent authority, whore
the laws of the States and of the Union are in direct and manifest collision on the same subject,
those of the Union, being the supreme law of the
land, are of paramoint authority; and the State
a 4 Wheat. Rcp. W6.
b 5 "heaf. Rep. 49.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

laws, so far, and so far only as such incompatibili- 1824.
ty exists, must necessarily yield.".
Gibbons
Although those authorities show, that nothing
V.
Ogden.
produce
can
collision
absolute
and
but a direct
such an interference as will render the State grants
invalid, yet alicense is relied on by our adversaries, as creating this interference. There is a
leading and fundamental error growing out of the
nature and form of that instrument, and one which
has induced the supposition, that a license gives a
right to trade, or a right to enter, or a right to
navigate the waters of the United States, to any
vessel possessing it. It, indeed, uses the words,
"license is hereby granted for the said vessel to be
employed in carrying on the coasting trade for one
year, from the date hereof, and no longer;" but
those words must necessarily be understood in
reference to the extent of the authority granting
the permission. Equivalent words are to be found
in every license to distil or to sell, or to do any
act, the right to do which existed prior to and independent of the authority by which it may be regulated; and they only mean, license is granted to
do the act, notwithstanding the regulations made
on that subject by the licensing authority, and
which, without this instrument, would restrain the
act. So far as those rights to trade, to enter, or
to navigate, exist unmodified, they rest on the
common law, independent of any gift from or
right conferred by Congress; which, in truth, has
no power whereby it might be enabled to make
such gift, its authority being only to regulatecommerce. These rights are, all three, portions of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. jus commune, and so far as the competent Legislatures have thought fit to let them remain; the right
Gibbons
V. to them, and their efficacy, depend on that jus
Ogden. commune and the common law. The right to
tradeis regulated by the State Legislatures and
laws of Congress; the right to enter is modified
principally by thelaws of Congress; and tle right to
navigate the waters,almost exclusively by the State
Legislatures. The license has nothing to do with
any of those rights; it onlygives some privilegbs as
to payment of tonnage duties, and less frequent entries at the custom houses ; and it exempts the licensed vessel from being included within a restriction
of the jus commune as to trading, by which Congress prohibits certain vessels from carrying foreign
articles and distilled spirits from State to State:
even there, not giving to the licensed vessel the
right of doing so, but only exempting them from
the prohibition. A review of the acts of Congress
on the subject, will show the truth of these positions.
By the now repealed act of July 20th, 1789,a imposing duties on tonnage, different rates were fixed: 1st. six cents per ton on vessels built in the United States, .&c., and' belonging 'to a citizen or
citizens of th& .UnitedStates; 2d. thirty cents
on vessels built in the United States, and belonging to foreigners; 3d. forty cents on all othet
ships and , vessels. But it was provided, thal
no United, States built vessel, owned by a citi.
zen, or citizens, while employed in the coast.
ing trade, or on the fisheries, should pay ton.
nage more than once a year; and that every
a 2 U.S. L. p. G.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ship employed in transporing the produce and 1824.
manufactures of the United States, unless United (Gibbow
States built, and owned by a citizen or citizens,
v.
Ogdem
The
ton.
per
cents
50
pay
entry,
every
on
should,
only advantages, then, to American built and owned ships, were, a less tonnage duty; and, if on the
coasting trade, paying it only once a year; but let
it be well remembered, that they had no exclusive
orpeculiar right to trade any where. By the
collection law of July 31, 1789, a which established ports of entry and delivery, it was enacted,
that no ship or vessel from a foreign port, not
wholly belonging to a citizen or citizens, should
be permitted to unload at. any port or place, except those there specified.
Neither this, nor any other act, GIVES the r-ight
of enteringinto the designated ports. It proceeds
on the supposition and the truth, that by some
other code, distinct from the laws of Congress, the
entry into all places had been antecedently lawful,
and then restrains it as to all other places but
those named.
The registering, recording, and enrolling of
vessels, were enacted by the act on that subject,
passed September 1st, 1789.' They were fcr the
purpose of describing the vessel, her built, tonnage, and ownership ; and neither they, nor their
certificates, give, nor purport to give, any right to
trade. The enrolment, and certificate of enroh
ment, is to entitle unregistered vessels of twenty
a 2 U. S. L. p. 7.
b Ib. p. 35.42.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
G
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

tons and upwards, American built and property,
and destined from district to district, or to the
fisheries, to the privileges of a ship belonging to
the United States, employed in the coasting trade
or fisheries. These I have already mentioned, to
be a less. tonnage duty, and paying it only once a
year; but no exclusive or peculiar right to trade
any where.a Registered or enrolled vessels, on
application to the collector where they belonged,
were entitled to receive a license to trade between
the different districtsin the United States, or carry on the bank or whale fishery for 'one year.'
The meaning, of that license, notwithstanding the
generality of its language, was only to certify that
the proper tonnage duty for that year had been
paid; and that the vessel was licensed, for that
year, to trade without paying any tonnage duty.
That such is its object, appears from the 22d see. 0
enacting, that the master, &c. "shall annually procure a license from the collector of the district to
which such vessel belongs, .who is hereby authorized to give the same, pumporting that such vessel
is exempt from clearing and entering for the
term of one yearfrom the date thereof." Every
vessel had a right to carry on the trade (between
district and district) without a license, on paying
the prescribed tonnage duties, suited to the case.
That further appears, by a provision in the same
section, (s. 23.) that if any vessel of twenty tons or
a 2 U. S. L. p. 6
b 1b. p. 43. s. 23.

c /b. p. 42, 43.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

13

upwards, not having certificate of registry, or en- 1824.
rolment, and a license, should be found trading. SGibbons
between different districts, or be emplbyed in the
v.
bank or whale fisheries, it shuld be wject to the Ogden.
same tonnage andfees asforeign ships or vessels.
The act, already cited, for tonnage and duties,
was repealed by the act of July 20th;. 1790;a but
the substituted clauses do not affect this argument.
A ship having a license, to trade between differ-ent districts; or to carry on the fisheries, while
employed thereii, is only- to pay the six cents per
ton once a year, (i. e. on.getting the license,) and
"upon every ship, &c. not of the United State,
which shall be entered in one district from "nother, having on board goods, &c. taken in one
distfict, to be delivered in another, there shall be.
daid at the rate of fifty cents per to:"' a duty.
which clearly recognises. their right to carry on
that trade on those terms.
The former act for registering and clearingves.sels, was repealed by that passed the 18th of Februg'y, 1793. This enacted, that none but enrolled
and licensed ships, '&c. (or, if under twenty tons,
simply licensed,) *should be deemed ships or vessels of the United States, entitled to the privileges
of ships or vessels employed in the coasting trade
or fisheries. These privileges, it will be again
remembered, are only the paying of a less -tonnage duty, and paying it but once a year; and
they do not comprehend any exclusive or peculiar
a 2 U. S. L. P. 119, 120.
b lb. p. 332.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

right to trade. any where.

G
Gibbons

getting the license, the tonnage for the year must

V.

be paid; and the effect and object.of the license
was to certify that the proper tonnage duty for

Ogden.

It enacts, that before

that year had been paid, and that the vessel was,
therefore, licensed for that year to trade without
paying tonnage. But every, other vessd had still
a right to trade. By see. 6." vessels of twenty tons
and upwards, except registered, found trading between district and district, br different places in
the same district or fishery, not enrolled 'and
licensed, j&c. if laden with domestic produce or
manufacture, shall pay the same duties asforeign
shilps; or, if laden with foreign produce or manufacture, or distilled spirits, shall be forfeited.
This shows that foreign ships had a right to carry
on the coasting trade without a license, (a thing
which they could not possibly obtain,) on paying
the extra tonnage duties, and making entry at
every port. This further and most fully appears
by the 24th section of the same act,b prescribing
the duties of masters of foreign ships, bound from
one district to another, whether with a cargo or in
ballast; and by see. 34.0 establishing the rates of

fees under that act, in which are -found, "For
granting a permit for a vessel not belonging to a
citizen or citizens of the United States, to proceed
from district to district, and receiving the manifest, 200 cents. For receiving a manifest, and
a 2 U. S.L. p. 335.
b Id. p. 343.

c Id. p. 346.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

granting a permit to unload, for such last mentioned-vessel, on her arriving in one district from
another district, 200 cents." Indeed, until the
year 1817, there was no kind of prohibition on
foreign vessels carrying on the coasting trade. On
-the 1st of March, 1817) "an act concerning the
navigation of the United States" was passed; and
by sec. 4. it was enacted, "that no goods, wares,
or merchandise, 9hall be imported, under penalty
of forfeiture thereof, from one port of the United
States to another port of the United States, in a
vessel belonging, wholly or in part, to a subject
of any foreign power." This, however, does not
affect American ships not having a license, and
they have still a right to trade coastwise, subject
only to the increased tonnage duty, and the necessity of making entry at every port. How, then,
can it be said, that the license gives the right to
carry on the coasting trade, which exists as part
of the jus commune, and existed, and was exercised, before the constitution, or any law on the
subject, was formed; and when, until March,
1817, every foreign vessel had a right to carry it,
on; and when, to this hour, every American vessel
has a right to carry it on, without a license or register, and only becomes subject to an increase
of tonnage duty, and the necessity of making
entry at the custom-house on every voyage? It
is only a license to carry on the coasting trade,
without making entry or paying tonnage duties,
conformably to. the laws of Congress in other
cases. It gives no right to enter, nor to trade,
nor to navigate the waters of. the United States:
VeOL. IX.

i8

1824.
Gibbons

v.
Ogdw.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b

v.
ogden,

it only enables the licensed vessel to do those
things, in certain cases, on cheaper and easier
terms than other vessels could, who, nevertheless,
had equal rights to carry on the same trade, though
With less advantages; and now, in the event of
having foreign produce or manufacture, or distilled
spirits, on board, a license protects from a forfeiture, which was not enacted for some 'years
after licenses were devised and used in their present shape. It is not, then, a license to trade,
to enter, or. to navigate, but to be exempt from
payn g tonnage duty for a year. If, then, the
position is correct, (and it undoubtedly is,) that a
license gives no right to trade, to enter a port, or
to navigate its waters, n6 argument can be drawn
from the act of March 12, 1812, "respecting the
enrolling and licensing of steam boats."" The
only object of that law.is, to enable aliens to be
part owners of such vessels,- and to modify, as to
them, the*oith that the boat belongs to a citizen
or citizens of the United Statdi.
But, even if. the rigkt of entry, or to trade or
navigate, were given by the acts of Congress,
and not by the common law, as originally existing
or subsequently modified, this exclusive righf does
not prevent the entry of any vessels into our waters, nor their navigating or trading. there; nor
does it materially impeae them. The on!y part of
this extlusive grant that.can come under the cognizance of this Court, in this case, is that on
which the injunction is grounded. That, and the
a 4 U. S. L7p. 393.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

prohibition of the injunction, can only be fairly
considered as extending to prevent the navigation
of the waters by the force or agency of steam or
fire; not to prevent vessels from navigating those
waters, because they have a steam engine on
board, and wheels at the side, if the engine and
the wheels be not used on our waters for propelling the vessel, contrary to our State'laws. Before
the vessel comes into those waters, and after it
leaves them, it is out of the State jurisdictionand iot liable to any State penalty for using the
agency of steam. What, then, is the amount of
the prohibition of entry? That the same vessel,
with the same cargo and crew, may come up -and
pass through our waters, if, while in our waters,
she will come up and navigate under sail, as all
commercial vessels have hitherto done. In the
argument of this case before the Court of Errorsa
one of the appellant's counsel couched his reasoning in the form of a remonstrance by- an
English ship master against* those State laws.
The reply can, perhaps, be best given by tirning
the discussion into a dialogue. An English steam
vessel is boarded by a. pilot, outside of SandyHook. - Captain," says the pilot, "you will haige
to stop those wheels at your sides, when you get
within our waters." "Why so?" asks the captain.
,Because the.:State of New-York have granted
to Livingston and -Fulton an exclusive right, of
navigating in its waters bY steam." " Sir," resumes the captain, "I care nothing for the laws
a 17 Josn. Rep. p. 488.

1824.
Gibbons

v.
Ogden..

140
1824.
Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of New-York. I know of no laws or regulations of a particular State, in regard to trade
and commerce. I claim the ,privilege of entering the harbour of New-York, under the laws
of the United States, and the treaty of amity
and commerce subsisting between them and my
sovereign. I insist upon my right of-entering
your waters as I please; and if your State authorities, or any one acting under them, should prevent me, the King, my master, will know how to
enforce- the rights of. his subjects." " Patience,
good captaih, patience,!' replies the pilot; " let
your head and your boiler co6l; do one means to
prevent your entering into our waters. Only stop
your machinery, and hoist those sails you have
carried twenty times between this and Liverpool,
and, I'll answer for it, we shall be alongside the
wharf ag soon as yon vessel, that you see bound
inwards, with all her canvass spread." This is
the extent of the prohigition-the Deo dignuts
vindice nodus! Whbi the case occurs of a vessel
navigating across the Atlantic, without sails, the
question may be discussed, whether it be a violalion of the laws of Congress, that she should be
reqiirpd to fit herself to the harbour, by providing
herself with a sail. The same may be said as to
coasting vessels from more distant States. As to
thbse from contiguous States, and whose trade
can just as well be carried on'by sails as by steam
engines, it is ridiculous to say, that such a regulation prohibits or interferes with their commerce.
IS it any part of the power intended to be delegated to Congress, to regulate as to those matters?

OF THE UNITEDSTATES.

The utmost that can be said is, that the passage
may be a little longer, and may be somewhat retarded,. The doctrine of the Federaliseapplies
here, that it is not a mere possibility of inconvenience in the exercise of powers, but an immediate
constitutional repugnancy, that can, by implication, alienate and extinguish a pre-existing right
of sovereignty. Regulations for a toll-bridge may
delay the mail carrier, and so far interfere with
the execution of the power delegated to Congress,
of regulating the post office and post roads; but,
could he gallop over a bridge, that a State law
directed should always be crossed on a walk?
But the clause in the constitution, authorizing
Congress to make laws respecting patents, is supposed to present another argument against the
constitutionality of those State laws. This point,
having been but very slightly mentioned, and in
some measure abandoned, by the appellant's opening counsel, would not be dwelt on now, if the
Attorney General had not intimated an intention
of insisting and relying on it. If the appellant
had a patent of any kind, on which he could rest,
it might fairly be urged by us that a patent cannot
give to ar unpatented thing, even though connected with one that is patented, the right to violate the State law. But how does or can that
question come up in this case? There is here no
allegation of a patent, nor a claim of any thing
entitled to be protected by the patent law, and
the use or enjoyment of which has been interfered
a The Federlit, 1No. 32.

1824.
Gibb=n

v.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

124. .with by the exclusive grant.
b
Gibbons.

V.

Ogden.

As the appellant

claims no patent, if this power in Congress can

furnish to him any objection against the State
laws, it must be on the ground, that inasmuch as
Congress is authorized to promote the progress of
science and useful arts, by securing, for limited
times, to authors and inventors the exclusive right
to their respective writings and discoveries, every
State law, calculated or purporting to promote
the progress of science and useful arts, - is utterly
void, merely because that is its purport and object,
even though it should not relate to any invention
or discovery; though the privileges it may confer
should not be given on the score of invention or
discovery, but of public policy and convenience;
and further, although there is no discovery or invention of any other person in existence, the right
to which Congress could secure, and which has
any relation to the State grant. That, in short,
the appellant, or any other person, has a right to
treat the State law as a nullity, and, in violation
of it, to use unpatented articles, and incapable of
being the subject of a patent or protection; and,
that no Court or process of law has authority to
restrain him from the use of what never can come
within the power of Congress; because, peradventure, something may hereafter be discovered,
having some relation to the subject of the State
grant, and some person may, hereafter, be entitled to claim the benefit of the constitutional protection, as an inventor. The extraordinary boldness of this position must surprise and astonish.
If the passing of the patent law is per 'se compe-

OF THE UNITED- STATES.

143

tent-'to prevent a State granting this exclusive 184.
right, for a thing (so far as the pleadings. show) Gibbona
not the subject of a patent, it is equally so to prev.
Ogden
right,
exclusive
other
every
granting.
vent a State
and particularly if connected with science and the
useful arts. If the law alone will not produc?
that effect, until a patent is granted, at vari.ance
with the exclusive right, the. patent should appear,
to let us see if it be really at variance, and have
that effect.
If the last steam boat laws, enacted since the
North River boats were in operation, had, instead
of using a general phraseology, forbid any person
to use, on the waters of the State, steam boats
constructed or made in the same manner as those
then used by Livingston and Fulton, or in any
manner before known or used, or in any mannw"
invveted'by a non-resident alien, would there be
any thing for the patent lawb or power of Congress to operate on in collibion.thereto? If not,
then those State laws are so far good; and any
one, to- impeach their operation, must claim and
show that he has a boat constructed in a different
mann.er,- and which is patented, as an!invention,
or, at least, is a subject for the laws of Congress
to operate upon, and which he is restrained from
using.
Has it ever been disputed that , h State has a
fight to grant exclusive privileges, ,here not forbidden to the' Legislature by- its. constitution?
The wisdom and the motives of the grait, are
points for which it is responsible to the people
of the State only; they can never be drawn into

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
v.
Ogden.

discussion in this Court, nor come under the control of Congress. It is a right inherent in the
sovereignty of every country, not delegated to
Congress, but allowed to, and constantly exercised by, the State governments. It is a legislative instrument of great power, and may, therefore,
be used to evil purposes; but it may be, and often
has been, as in the present instance, productive
of splendid benefits. It must reside somewhere;
it does not reside in Congress; where, then, does
it reside?
Whether the power delegated to Congress be
exclusive or concurrent, the power of promoting
science and useful arts, by the introduction of
imported improvements, and encouraging the employment of things not susceptible of being patented, is exclusively in the State Legislatures.
It is of great importance, and exercised by every
wise government; by England, France, &c. It
domesticates the sciences and useful arts, the
talents and genius of the civilized world. The
States, in the exercise of this their exclusivepower,
which has been employed. in making those laws,
are not to be interfered with from any apprehension of collision in the exercise of a concurrent
power, only relating to another branch of the
same subject, which the State has not used, and
which Congress may never have an opportunity of
using.
I say, a concurrent power; for such is that
delegated to Congress. One of the counsel now
opposed to us, in, his argument in the case of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Sturges v. Crowninshield,*places in his third
class, that is, among the concurrent powers, that

1824.
'-'

Gibbons

to promote the progress of science and usefil arts;
V.
and says, very truly, "from the exercise of any of Ogde .
these powers, the States are neither expressly,
nor by any fair rule of construction, excluded."
Judge Tucker, in his Appendix D. p. 182. 265.
among the cases in which the States have unqestionably concurrent, though, perhaps, subordinate
powers, with the federal.government, ranks the
power to promote the progress of science and
the useful arts, by securing to the authors and
inventors the exclusive right, within the State,
to their respective writings and discoveries. In
the case of Livingston v. Van Ingenb Thompson, J. takes for granted, that it is so, and it is
expressly asserted by Kent, C. J.; and in the same
case, an instance is given of its exercise, by an
act of the Legislature of New-York, in favour of
Mr. Rumsey, passed on the 23d of February, 1789,
after the adoption of the federal constitution, and
shortly before the first meeting of Congress. It
was entitled, "for securing to James Rumsey the
sole right and advantage of making and employing,
for a limited time, the several meclianical improvements by him lately invented."O I do not
speak from research, but I understand that he
obtained a similar patent from several other States.
This law is a cotemporaneous exposition of the
a 4 Wheat. Rep. 168.
bi 9JAhs. Rep. 56-[,5 6 8.
c 2 Greenleafs ed. of the Laws, p. -71.

VOL. IX.

i9

,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
.Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

constitution, and shows that the State considered
itself as still retaining a concurrent right of logislation on the subject of inventions in science and
the useful arts, notwithstanding the new constitution, and the recent transfer of similar powers
to Congress.
What is the power delegated to Congress, and
on what principle is it founded? A confined and
partial mode of promoting the progress of science
and useful arts, viz. by securing, for a limited
time, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right
to their respective writings and discoveries. The
Federalist, No. 43," says, " the utility of this
power will scarcely be questioned. The copyright of authors has been solemnly adjudged in
Great Britain to be a right at common law. The
right to useful inventions seems, with equal reason, to belong to the inventors." This commentary, and the words of the constiiution, show that
the power is only founded on the principle of literary property extended to inventions. It proceeds upon assuming a pre-existent common law
right, which, however, requires to be properly
secured by adequate remedies. Its principle is
entirely different from that on which patents rest
in England.
They are exclusive rights, not
merely secured, but created and granted; they
are monopolies for things invented or imported,
and do not suppose or act on any pre-mxistent
right; but grant a right, the origin and efficacy of
which is derived from its being a gift from the
a p. 269.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

crown, permitted and legalized by act of Parlia- 1824.
ment. It is contended, because the English Gibbons
0
Judges have construed their statute of monopolies
V.
so as to include imported improvements, under Ogden.
the term inventions, that our constitution should
receive the same construction; but there is no
foundation for the position. The English Judges
strained the words of their statute, contrary to all
fair construction, because they felt the importance
of a power to encourage imported improvements,
and saw no other way by which it could be
done; and, besides, their interpretation went to
strengthen and increase the royal prerogative.
But, .withus, imported improvements can be perfectly encouraged by the States; and the power
delegated. to Congress, is founded on the common
law pre-existent right of inventors to their own
discoveries, whicb can have no application to the
mere-possessors of imported improvements. The
constitution itself does not use the word patent,
and it is to be regretted that the act of Congress
does; for, tbe, use of the word implying a resemblance to the English patent, has led to a false
view of the powers of Congress.
But, in truth, according to the English acceptation of the term, Congress has no power to
grant them. It has no authority to make exclusive
grants of any kind; that power remains solely in
the States, as a part of their original sovereignty,
which has never come within the purview of the
federal constitution. A patent, in England, and
every country but this, implies, the' creation and
gift of a right, by force of the sovereign power,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. conferring upon an individual a monopoly, in
%which
he had no pre-existent right. This can be
Glibbons0
V.
done by the States, and only by the States. The
Ogden.
power delegated to Congress, does not authorize
it to create any r'ight, or to give any right; it only
enables that body to secure a pre-existent common
law right, and for that purpose it may create and
give a remedy. Where there is no pre-existent
right to be secured, the power of Congress cannot
operate. To these positions, the attention of the
Court is directed, as they may be found important
in the sequel.
Although the article in the constitution is expressed with accuracy, yet it also has employed a
word, sometimes taken in different senses, and
which has likewise contributed to a false view of
the power of Congress: the expression is, " an
exclusive right." The word "exclusive" may well
mean, as it does here, individual, sole, or separate, in which sense, every man's private property,
to which no other man has any claim, is his exclusive property. In that sense, Judge Chase
says, in the case of Calder et ux. v. Bull et ux." If any one has a right to property, such right is
a perfect and exclusive right." But, that word,
exclusive, is more frequently applied to express,
that others have been excluded or shut out-from
the participation of what they were previously
entitled, or would, but for that exclusion, be entitled to enjoy and use. In this'sense, the phrase,
exclusive rights or privileges, is ordinarily undera 3 Dalla Rep. 394.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

stood. But, it never was intended to give Con- 1824.
gress any power to grant exclusive privileges;• and Gibbous
in the article of the constitution, that meaning of
v.
the word would be inconsistent.with the idea of Ogden.
securing a pre-existing right. All error would have
been avoided, if the adjective had been entirely
omitted, or the word individual substituted.
At the time of- making the State grant in question, -no man had, andi indeed, no man yet has,
any pre-existing right to an invention, connected
with the subject matter of the grant. Suppose
,any man, however, now to make an invention,
and seek to use it without procuring for himself
a patent, or availing himself of the power delegated to Congress; surely the law of the State
would be competent to prevent his using it within
its waters and jurisdiction. The statute law would,
in that instance, operate on the common law, and
prevent the common law right, pro tainto, from
ever arising, in the same way, as in a fishery.
The right of fishing, in a public navigable river,
is a common right; but, suppose that before the
birth of any given individual, a part of that navigable river had, by statute, been turned into a
several fishery, surely his common right would
not entitle him to fish in that part of the .navigable river .which a statute had, before the
commencement of his common right, turned
into a separate fishery. His right to fish there
never had a commencement or origin-So with
this supposed inventor. A statute, prior to
the commencement of his common law right, so
acted on that common law itself, that a right

CASES IN THE SUPREME' COURT

1824.

in him to use his invention, in the waters of the
'State,
never had a commencement or origin.
Gibbons
V. Now, suppose the inventor to procure a patent;
Ogden. would that enable him to use his patented invention within the jurisdiction and waters of a State,
contrary to its statutes? If it did, what would be
its operation ? The delegated power, is only to
secure a pre-existent right; it can only do that, so
far as there is a pre-existent right; where there is
not, there is'nothing to be secured. So far, then,
as relates to any use or exercise of the invention
within the State, there would be no right to be
secured, and nothing for the power of Congress
to operate upon. But further, if the inventor,
before obtaining his patent, could not legally use
his invention, but, aft, r obtaining his patent,
could use it in despite of the State laws, the
patent would then create and give a right that did
not exist before, and thus transcend the power
delegated to Congress, which does not enable
that body to create or give any right, but only to
create and give a remedy, for the purpose of securing an existing right, which derives its origin
and fore .,fom some other law or laws than thoso
made by congress.
So far, then, as relates to those State laws, it
is impossible that their validity can be affected by
the patenting of any invention or discovery made
subsequent to their enactment, But it may tilr
be advisable to pursue the same course of reasoning, and inquire how far even the existence of a
patent, previous to the passing of such acts, would

OF THE UNITED STATES.

enable the patentee to use his invention in despite

1824.

of them.

l ibbons

V.
The object of a patent, granted in pursuance
of the delegated 'power, is to perfect an imperfect Ogd=.
-ight,.by exactly ascertaining, if I may say So, its
means, and boundaries, and identity, and by affording an adequate remedy for- its violation. The
precise nature of the remedy is within the discretion of Conlgress; but the nature of.the-evil it purports to remedy, is entirely illustrative' of the
extent of the power delegated to Congress. The
patent law itself shows that its object is, to turn
the imperfect right into property, for it ilirects,
that the applicant's petition shall signify a desire
of 1-btaining an exclusive property in his improvement. And the clause giving the remedy, shows
the injury against which Congress. intended to
guard, 'nd against which aloneit had any power,
under the constitution, to provide a guard: where
any person ".shall make, deise, use, or sell" the
thing, whereof the exclusive right is secured to
the-patentee by such patent, &o." But,.no remedy
is provided against preventing the pateniee from

.making, de'sing., wing or s'lling the thing so
patented.. That, if any grievance at all, is one
.-not.within .the purview of the ,act, nor within the
powers of Congress, and against which, therefore,
no.remedyis.there prcvided.
The -object of this power, and of the law made
under i, -is
to give to the.pre-existent but imperfect right the -security and attributes of aztual
- a.4d of Feb. 21, 179s, s. 1..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

152
1824.
'that,
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

property.

When the law of Congress has done

it is functus officio; and it leaves that right,

which it has placed in the class of actual property, to be used and enjoyed like every other kind
of actual property, conformably to the laws of the
place where it is to be enjoyed. That which is
thus the object of the power and law of Congress,
is the patent-right, which it has, as it were, converted into a chattel. But the difference between
the patent-right and the thing patented, is great
and palpable, equal to the difference between a
copy-right and a book. If a State attempted to
authorize a violation of these rights, to enable
another to make use of or vend the thing patented,
or to print the book, or to throw open and in common, the patent-right or the copy-right, then its
law would be unconstitutional. But the rights,
and only the rights, are the object of the power
and laws of Congress; the things themselves are
personal property or chattels of the ordinary kind,
to be enjoyed; like all other property, subject to
laws over which Congress has no control.
If so, why has not a State a right to prohibit
the use of the thingpatented within its jurisdiction ? It can do so, as to all other kinds of property. It is no argument-to say, that if one State
can do it, every State can do it. If every State
wished to do it, how could they, or why should
they, be prevented? But, is not that the case
with every kind of property.? And if they should
extend that power over any species of unpatented
property, could Congress interfere? The individual States having that power over every kind of

C& Hh UNITED STATES;
originally perfect property, can it be supposed, 1824.
that because Congress was empowered to turn Gibbon
imperfectinto perfect property, this newly secured
V.
Ogen,.
posand
class,
superior
a
occupy
species should
sess privileges and exemptions that were never
attached to any other kind of property? The
power of regulating and prohibiting the use of
every kind of property must be somewhere; it is
a- necessary part of legislative sovereignty, and
must be-intrusted to some constituted authority.
As to all other kinds of property, it is undoubtedly,
in the State Legislatures. Things patented may
be dangerous or noxious; they may be generally
useful, and locally injurious; such, for instance,
might be torpedoes in a peaceful and commercial
port; fire balloons and -squibs in a populous city;
though, -in some places and on some occasions,
they may well be useful and advantageous, or, at
least, harmless. Among the curiosities in the
patent ofice, there probably-are some patented
velocipedes. The Corporation of New-York, in
1819, by an ordinance, prohibited the use -of any
velocipede in the streets of that city. Had it not
a right to do so; and could the owner of avy of
those patent velocipedes use them in the street,
in despite of that ordinance? -The Legislature of
New-York has, for many years, prohibited the
drawing of any lotteries there, except what it has
granted to certain public institutions, such as
Union College,- and the College of Physicians.
By virtde of the prohibition to others, and the
granit to those institutions, they have obtained'an
exclusive right of drawing lotteries, sMnilar'to
VEL.tI.

to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. .that, the constitutionality of which is now in con",bn-,7
troversy. Joseph Vanini has patented a new
v.
mode of drawing lotteries, which is, unquestionaogden. bly,. a great improvement, simplifying the operation, and, by completing it in.less than five minutes,
preventing all insurances, and many of the evils
attendant on the old mode. But, 'could he, because his invention is an improvement and Oatented, insist on a right to use it, and draw lotteries
in the State of New-York, contrary to its laws,
and indeed, now, to the express provisions of its
constitution? No. The power to prohibit the use
of patented things, either generally or locally,
must reside somewhere. Can Congress prohibit
the use of locally injurious, but .patented, things,
in the waters, or the cities, or the populous towns
of New-York? If not, because it has no power
of regulation or prohibition, where does that
power reside ? If it reside, as it must, exchwsively
in the State Legislatures, or subordinate. authorities, who but their :constituents can inquire into
the motives or propriety of their exercise of that
power, or the extent to which it should be carried?
If the States have not that regulatiug and controlling power, as Congress. assuredly -has it not,
What is the consequence? A patent can be got for
any thing, and with no previous competent authority to decide upon its'utility or fitness. If it once
issues. from the patent office, as full of evils as
Pandora's box, if they Le as new as those that
issued from thence, it -is above the restraint and
control.of the State Legislatures-of the Legislature of the United States-of every human autiho-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rity! I put the case of their being noxious or
dangerous; but there may be a multitude of other
reasons for regulating, restraining, or even prohibiting their use; of these Congress can take no
cognizance. If the State governments can take
no cognizance of them, no institution can; if
they can take cognizance, their power is exclusive, and their exercise of it cannot be reviewed.
Could Congress (incapable as it is, of itself, prohibiting the use of patented things,) pass a law,
in words, that a patentee shall have a right to use
his paten'ted.maehine in any State, notwithstanding any prohibitory laws of that State? Would
thatbe within. the power of Congress? How, then,
can implication give to the patentee the same
right? If a patent can give a right to use the
thing patented, in contravention of this exclusive
right, it would have the same effect ii contravention of any other exclusive right granted by a
State. Ferries, stage-coaches, &c. all the grants
respecting them, would be broken down by some
patented vehicle, for, they are all, in parimateria,. exclusive grants, from motives of public
policy; and, having no connexion with the principle of literary property, which is the origin and
the object of patent-rights, they cannot be affected
by any' ower given to Congress. A State has
the same jurisdiction and authority over its rivers
and-lakes, that it has over its canals. Now, if the
Legislature of New-York judged it advisable so
to do, could.it not-prohibit any boat,,using some
patented machinery,' from 'navigating its western
canal? It it could. why could it not make the

15

1824.
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

CASES IN THE -SUPREME COURT

1824.

same prohibition as to its rivers and lakes; and .if
b
the act here should "be an excess or abuse of leGibbons,V.
gislation, °would not its responsibility be excluOden, svel# to thd people of the State?
The 'State of New-Yo.rk, from motives 'not
examinable -here, made a contract, which is the
foundation of our right; it could only do so by-a
law. The State had a right tQ contract, and, so
far, it stands.on the same footin& as if one individual contracted, for a valuable consideration,
with another, io receive his supplies, of any article
from him only. In the case of individuals, could
a man, having a patented improvement of the
same.article, insist on annulling that contract, as
interfering with his exclusive right and patent?
If not, why should not a State, capable of contracting,,-have the same right to make that bargain, and, consequently, exclude the use of the
patented article in its jurisdiction and domain, as
an individual has in his own house and farm?
The waters of the State afe the domain and property of the. State, subject only to the commercial
regulations of Congress. Why should not the
contract of a State, in regard to its domain andproperty, be as sacred as that of an individual,
Such a contract was in this, and may in many
cases, be very useful and advantageous. Who is
to judge of that but the State Legislatures?
Could Congress have made this contract, or acquired this benefit for the State? Certainly not.
If 'the State cannot, what power or authority can?
And is it come to this, that a contract, such as
every individual in the land may wisely and law-,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

fuall make, for his own benefit, and to be enforced

15?
1824.

in his own premises, no State, and no authority tyGibbons
-0

for any State, can make for its benefit, and to be
enforced. in its.j!risdiction?There are circumstances connected with those
laws, sufficieni to make any tribunal require the
.strongest arguments before it adjudged them invalid. The State of New-York, by a patient and
forbearing patronage of ten years, to Livingston
and Fulton, .by the tempting inducement of its
proferred reward,, and by the subsequent liberality of its contract, has called into existence the
noblest and. most useful improvement of the present.day. Genius had contended with its inheient
difficulties, for generations before; and if some
had nearly reached, or some even touched, the
goal, they sunk exhausted, and theresult of their
efforts perished in reality, and almost in name.
Such would, probably, have been the end of Fulton's labours; and, neither the wealth and talents
of his associate, nor the resources of his own
great mind, would have stved him from .the fate
of others, if he had not been sustained, for years,
by the wise and considerate encouragement of the
State of. New-York. She has brought into noonday splendour, an invaluable improvement to the
intercourse and consequent happiness of man,
which, without her aid, would, perhaps, have
scarcely dawned upon our grandchildren. She
has not only rendered this service to her own citizens, butthe benefits of her policy have spread
themselves over thd whole Union. Where cat
you turn your eyes, and where can -you travel,

v.

Ogdm

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
g"Gibbns
v.
Ogden.

withou.t having your eyes delighted,, and some part
of the fatigues of your journey relieved, by the
presence of a stedm boat? The Ohio and Mississippi, she has converted into rapid channels foi
communicating wealth, comforts and enjoyments,
from their mouths to their head- waters. And the
happy and refiecting inhabitants of the States they
wash, may well ask themselves, whether, next to
the constitutions under which they live,. there be
a single blessing they enjoy from the ak and labour of man, greater than vhat they have derivJ
from the patronage of the State of New-York to
Robert Fulton ' 'But the mighty benefits that have
resulted from those laws, are not circumsciibed,
eyen by the vast extent of our Union. New-York
may raise her head, she miiay proudly raise' her
head, and cast her eyes over the whble civilized
world; she there may see its countless waters
bearing on their surface countless offsprings of her
munificence 'and wisdom: She,may fondly calculate on t'heir speedy extension in every direction
and through every region, from Archangel to Calcutta; and justly arrogating to herself the labours
of the man she. cherished, and, conscious of 'the
value of her own good works, she may turn the
mournful exclameation of Aneas into an expression
of triumph, and exultingly ask,
Qua regio in terris, nri'nonp2ena labori8.

And it is, after al, those advantages have beer
4cquired and realized to the woild--after nuine,
rous individuals bave embarked their fortuies; or

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the faith of those grants, and a ten years acquies- 1824.
cence in the 'decision by which -they were sanc-S Gibbons
tioned-after the property they have created has
v.
Ogden.
possessorsof
miltitude
a
among
diffused
been
after it has become the sole support of the widow
and the orphan-after it has received lind exhausted the accumulated savings of the laborious
and industrious heads of families, that a decision
is required, which cannot, indeed, undo the lasti'ug benefits already procured to the world, but
would, assuredly, undo many of those who have
confided their wealth and means to the stability
and observance of those laws!
The A4orney-Gcnrraz, for the appellant, in
reply, insisted, that the laws of New-York were
unconstitutional and _Void:
1. Because they are in conflict with powers exclusively vested in Congress, which powers Congress has fully exercised, by laws now subsisting
and in full force.
2. Because, if the powers.be concurrent, the
legislation of the State is in conflict with that of
Cpngress, and is, therefore, void.
He stated, that the powers with which the laws
of New-York conflict, are the power "to promote
the progress of science and the useful arts, by
securing, for a limited time, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their respective
writings a[d inventions," and the power " to regulate commere -with foreign nations, and among
the several States." If these powers were ex-Iusive in Congress, and it had exercised. them. by

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

subsisting laws; and if the lawsof New-York in18.
with the laws of' Congress, by obstructing,
.terfere
V. impeding, retarding, burdening, or in any other
%gden. manner, controlling their operation,. the laws of'
New-York are void, and the judgment of the
State Cdurt,. founded on the assuimption of their
validity, 'must be reversed.
In diacussing.this question, the general principles assumed, as postulates, on the other side,
might be, for the most part, admitted. Thus,
it might be admitted; -that by force of the de-.
claration of independence, each State became
sovereign; that they were, then, independent of
,.each other, and foreign to each other; that by
virtue of their separate sovereighty, they had,
each, full power to levy-war, to make peace, to
establish and regulate commerce, to encourage
the arts,. and generally to -perform all other acts
of sovereignty. It-was also conceded, that the
government of the United States is one of delegated powers; and the counsel for the respondeqt
added, that it is one of enumerated powers. Yet
they admitted that there. were implied powers,
and' had given a different rule for the construction
of the two' classes of powers, which was, that
"the express powers are to be construed mt'icly,
the implied powers iberi).'" But the implied
powers, he presumed, were only those-.which. are
necessary and proper to carry the ".powers, ex,pressly given, into. effect-the means. td an ond.
This clause had not been generally regprded- asp
in fact, giving any, new powers. Congress would
have had theiu :without the. express declaration.

OF THE UNITED STATE9,

161L

* The clause was inserted only ex abundaizi cau. 1824.
tela. With this explAnation,
• it might be con- Gibbow
ceded, that the constitution of the United States
v.
is one of delegated and enumerated pQwers ; and Ogden,
that all powers, not delegated by the constitution
to the national government, nor prohibited by it
to the States, are reserved to the.States respectively, or to the peopIe. The peculiar rule of
construction demanded for those powers, might
also be conceded: that the express powers are to
be strictly construed, the implied liberally. By
which was understood to be meant, that Congress
can do no more than they are expressly authorized
to do; though the means of doing it are. left to
their discrefion, under no other limit than that
they shall be necessary and proper to the end.
On the other hand, the counsel for the respon-.
dent themselves admitted, that .Congress, nevertheless, hassome exclusive powers; and, in conformity with the decisions of the Court, they
-admit that those exclusive powers exist under
three heads. (1.) When the power is given to Congress in express terms of exclusion. (2.) When
a power isgiven to Congress, and a like power is
expressly prohibited-to the States. (3.) Where a
power given to Congress, is of such a nature, that
the exercise of. the same .power by the States
would be repugnant.
With regard to the degree of repugnancy, it
was insisted, that the repugnancy must be mani*fest, necessary, unavoidable, total, and direct.
Certainly if the powers be repugnant at all, they
must be so with al these qualifications. If ConVOL. 1%.

21

162

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
"
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

gress,, in the lawful exercise of its power, says
that a thing shall be done, and the State says it
shall not; or, which is the same thing, if Congress
says that a thing shall be done, on certain terms,
and the Stitte says it shall not be done, except on
certain other terms, the' repugnancy has all the
epithets. which can be lavished upon it, and the
State law must be void for this repugnancy.
A new test for the application of this third head
of exclusive power, had been proposed. It 'was
said, that "no power can be exclusive from its
own nature, except where it formed no part of
State authority previous to the constitution, but
was first created by the constitution itself." But
why were these national powers thus created by
the constitution? Because they look to the whole
United States as their theatre of action. And are
not all the powers given to Congress of the same
character? Under the power to regulate commerce, the commerce to be regulated is that of
the United States with foreign nations, among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes. No
State had any previous power of regulating these.
:The -same thing might be affirmed of all the other
powers euimnerated in the constitution. They
vere all created by the constitution, because they
are to be wielded by the whole Union over the
whole Union, which"no State could previously do.
If any one power, created.by the constitution,
may be exclusive for that reason, then all may be
exclusive, because all are originally created. If,
on the other hand, we are to consider the powers
enumerated in the constitution, not.with reference

OF -THE UNITED STATES.

to the greater arm that wields them, and the more
extended territory over which they operate, but
merely in reference to the nature of the particular
power in itself considered - then, accQrding to this
new test, all the powers given to Congress are
concurrnt; because there is no one power given
to it, which, considered in this light, might not
have been previously exercised by the States
within their respective sovereignties. But this
argument proved too much; for, it has been conceded, that some of the powers are- exclusive from
their nature; whereas, if the argument were true,
none of" them could be. exclusive.. On this argument, the entire class or head of exclusive powers,
arising from the nature of the power, must be
abolished. But this Court had repeatedly determined, that there is such a class of exclusive
powers. The -power of establishing a uniform
rule of naturalization, is one. of the instances.
Its exclusive character is rested on the constitiW-tional requisition, that the rule established under
it should -be uniform.
It had been, objected, that this would have been
a eoncurrent power, but.for the auxiliary provision
in the constitution, that a citizen of one. State
shall be entitled to all the privileges of a citizen in
every other State. The answer was, that it is
not so determined by the Court in the *case cited,
aud. that the commentators on the constitution
place it exclusively on the nature of the. power as
described in the grant.'
a Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. Rep. 269.
h 7§e Federalist,No. 42.

1824..
. v.

Ogdn.

164

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbbns

v.

Ogden.

So also, the power of establishing uniform laws
on the subject of bankruptcies, is clearly an oxclusive power from its nature. The Court has,
indeed, determined, that until Congress thought
fit to exercise the power, the States might pass
local bankrupt laws, provided they did not impair
the obligation of contracts; but, that aq soon as
Congress legislate on the subject, the power of
the States is at an end.But it bad been said, that tfiis doctrine takes away
State power, by implication, which is contrary to
the principles of interpretation laid down by the
commentators on the constitution. It was not the
opinion of the authors of the Federalist, that a
State power could not be alienated by implication.
Their doctrine was, that it might be alienated by
implication, provided the iniplication be inevitable; and that it is inevitable wherever a direct and
palpable repugnancy exists. The distinction between repugnancy and occasional interference, is
manifest. The occasional interference, alluded
to in the Federalist, and admitted by this Court,
in its adjudications, is not a repugnancy between
the powers themselves: it is a mere incidental
interference in the operation of powers harmonious in themselves. The case put, was of a tax
laid by Congress, and a tax laid by the State,
upon the same subject, e. g. on a tract of land.
The taxes operate upon, and arb to be satisfied
out of the same subject. It might be inconvenient to the proprietor to pay both taxes. In an
a 5turges v.'Cfowninihidld, 4

Whgdt,

Rep.: 2%

OF THE UNITED STATES.

extreme'case, the subject might be ifnadequate to 1824.
the satisfaction of both.. Then the tax laid by '-Gibbons'
the paramount authority must be "first satisfied.
v..
Still, this incidental interference in their operation, Ogdon.
is not an inherent repugnance in the nature of the
powers themselves.
It was also said; that to constitute the power an
exclusive one in Congress; the repugnance must
be such, that the State can pass -no law on the
subject, which will not be repugnant t6 the power
given to Congrdss.
This required qualification before it could be
admitted. Some subjects are, in their nature,
extremely multifarious and complex. The same
subject may consist of a great variety of branches,
each extending itself into remote, minute, and infinite ramifications. Onebranch alone, of such a subject, might be given exclusively to Congress, (and
the power is exclusive only so far as.it is granted,)
.yet, on other branches of the same subject,, the
States might act, without interfering with the
power exclusively granted to Congress. Commerce is such a subject. It is so complex, multifarious and indefinite, that it would be extremely
difficult, if not impracticable, to make a digest of
all the operations which belong to it. One or
more branches of this subject might be given exclusively to.Congress; the others may be left open
to the States. They may, therefore, legislate on
commerce, though they cannot touch that branch
which is given exclusively to Congress.
So Congress has the power to promote the progress 6f science and The useful arts; but only in

166

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
G
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

one mode, viz. by securing, for a limited time, to
authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries. This might
be an exclusive power, and was contended to be
so. Yet, there are a thousand other modes in
which the progress of science and the useful arts
may be promoted, as, by establishing and endowing literary and philosophical societies, and many
others which might be mentioned. Hence, notwithstanding this particular exclusive grant 'to
'Congress, of one mode of promoting theprogress
of science and the useful arts, the States may
rightfully make many enactments on the general
subject, without any repugnance with the peculiar
grant to Congress.
But, to come now to the o iestion, vhether these
State laws be repugnant t, this grant of power,
we must first inquire, why it was conferred on
Congress? Why was it thought a matteroof sufficient importance to confer this power upon the
national government? The answer to this question would be found in the history of the country,
in the nature of our institutions, and the great
national objects which the constitution had in view.
The country was in its infancy; its population
was small; its territory immense: it had recently
thrown off its bondage by the war of the revolution, and was left exhausted and poor-poo" in
every thing but virtue and the love of country.
It was still dependent on the arts of Europe, for
all the comforts, and almost all the necessaries of
life. We had hardly any manufactures, science,
or literature of our own. Our statesmen saw the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

great destiny which was before the nation, but 1824.
they saw also the necessity of exciting the enerV.
gief of the people, of invoking the genius of invention, and of creating aid diffusing the lights 0 dw.
of science. These were objects, in which the
whole nation was concerned, and were,. thprefbre,
naturally and. properly confided to the national
government. The States, indeed, might have
exercised their. inherent power of legislating on
this subject; but their sphere of action was comparatively small; their regulations would naturally
have been various and conflicting. -Discouragement and discontent would have arisen in some
States, from the superior priyileges conferred on
the works of genius in- others; contests would
have ensued among them on the point of the originality of inventions; and laws of retortion and
reprisal would have followed, All these difficulties would be avoided by giving the power to Congress, and giving it exclusively of the States. If
it were wisely exerted by Congress, there could
be no necessity for a doncurrent exercise of the
power by the States.
The terms of the grant are, " Congress shall
have power to promote. the progress of science
and the useful arts, by securing, for a limited
time, to authors and inventors, the ezclusive right
to their respective writings and discoveries." This
exclusive right is to be co-extensive with the territory of the Union. The laws to be made for
securing it, must be uniform, and must extend
throughout the country.. The exclusive:nature of
every power is to be tested by the character'of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
b
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

acts which Congress is to pass. This is the case
with the naturalization laws. The exclusiveness
of the power to establish them, resulted from
their character of uniformity. So here, the exclusiveness results from the character of the right
which they are to confer. It is to be exclusive.
It is not, indeed, said, that Congress shall have
the exclusive power, but it is said that they shall
have power to do a certain act, which, when done,
shall be exclusive in its operation. The power to
do such an act, must be an exclusive power. It
can, in the nature of things, be performed only
by a single hand. Is not the power of one sovereign to confer exclusizve rights, on a given subject,
within a certain territory, inconsistentwith a power
in another independent sovereign, to confer exclusive rights on the same subject, in the same territory? Do not the powers clash? The right to be
conferred by Congress, is to exclude all other
rights on the subject in the United States; NewYork being one of those States. The right to be
conferred by New-Yoik, is to exclude all other
rights on the subject within the State of NowYork. That one right may exclude another, is
perfectly intelligible; but that two rights should
reciprocally exclude each other,, and yet both continue to subsist in perfect harmony, is inconceivable. Can a concurrent power exist, if, from the
very nature of its action, it must take away, or
render nugatory, the power given to Congress?
Supposing the power to be concurrent, Congress
may secure the right for one period of time,, and
the respective 1tates for another. Congress may

OV THE UNITED STATES.

169

9ecure it for the whole Union, and each State may 1824.
secure it to a different claimant, for its own terri- Gibbous
V.
tory. Congress possesses the power of granting
an exclusive right to authors and inventors,- within Ogden.
the United States. New-York claims the power
to grant such exclusive right within that State.
An author or inventor in that State, may take a
grant for a period of time far longer than that
alloved by the act of Congress. He may take a
similar grant from every other State in the Union;
and thus this pretended concurrent power supersedes, abrogates, and annuls the power of Congress. What would become of the power of Congress after the whole sphere of its action was
taken away by this concurrent power of the States?
Who would apply to the power of Congress for a
patent or a copy-right, while the States held up
higher privileges? This concurrent legislation
would degenerate into advertisements for custom.
These powers would be in the market,. and the
highest bidder, would take all. Are not powers
repugnant, when one may take from the other the
whole territory on which alone it can act? Is not
the repugnance such as to annihilate the power of
Congress, as completely as if the whole Union
was itself annihilated?
Something had been said of Congress repealing
the laws of the State, wherever they should conflict with those of the Union. But where is this
power of repeal? There is no such head of
power in the constitution. Congress can act only
by positive legislation on any subject, and this it
has done in the present instance. But thisaction
Vot. IX.

2

170

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibb"n"
Gibbons

,,.

Ogden,

would he in vain, if another authority can act on
the same subject. If this concurrent power would
defeat the power of Congress; by withdrawing
from it the whole territory on which it is to act, it
would also defeat it by giving a monopoly of all
the elements with which invention is to work.
This has been done by these laws, as to fire and
steam. Why should it not be done equally with
all the othei elements, such as gravitation, magnetism, galvanism, eleotricity, and others? What
is to consecrate these agents of nature, and secure them from State monopoly, more than fire
or steam? If not, then is the power of Congress
subject to be defeated by this concurrent power,
first by a monopoly of all the territory on which
it can act, and then by a mgnopoly of all the elements and natural agents on which invention can
be exerted. Still it would be said, that there is
no direct repugnance between these powers, and
that the power of Congress may still act. But on
what can it act? The territory is gone, and all
the powers of invention are appropriated. There
is no difference whatever between a direct enactment, that the law of Congress shall have no operation in New-York, and. enactments which render that operation impossibiq.. If, then, this process of reasoning be correct, the inevitable conclusion from it is, that a prower in the States to
grant exclusive p6tents, is utterly incob "*dqntwith
the -power given to the national govern -ant to
grant such exclusive patents: and hence, that the
power given to Congress is one which is exclusive
from its nature.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

But suppose, for the sake of the argument,
that the States have this concurrent power, yet it
cannot be denied, that if the legislation of the
State be repugnant to the laws of Congress, that
of the State is void, so far as the repugnance
exists. In the present case the repugnance is
manifest. The law of Congress declares, that all
inventors of useful improvements throughout the
United States, shall be entitled to the exclusive
right in their discoveries for fourteen years only.
The law of New-York declares, that this inventor
shall be entitled to the exclusive use of his discovery for thirty years, and as much longer as the
State shall permit. The law of Congress, by
limiting the exclusive right to fourteen years, in
effect declares, that after the expiration of that
time, the discovery shall be the common right of
the whole people of the United States. The law
of New-York declares that it shall not, after fourteen years, be the exclusive right of the people of
the United States, but that it shall be the exclusive
right of this inventor for thirty years, and for so
much longer as she, in her sovereign will and
pleasure, may permit. If this be not repugnance,
direct and palpable, we must have a new vocabulary for the definition of the word.
But it was said, that the appellant bad no patent under the'United States, and therefore, could
pot raise the question. To this it was answered,
that it was not necessary that he should have a
patent. The question as to the validity of the
law of New-York, is raised, whenever a right is
asserted under that law, and is resisted by the

1824.
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
bo
Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

party against whom it is asserted and that validity
is to be tested, not by comparing the law of NewYork with a patent, but by comparing it with the
constitution and laws of the United States.
It was also said, that there could be no repugnance, because it was admitted, that wherever d
patent from the United States appears, the patent
obtained under the State law must yield to it; that
the patent under the. State is valid only until the
patent from the paramount power appears; and
that the rights derived from the different sovereigns
must be found practically to clash, before the law
of New-York was to give way for repugnancy.
This is an insidious argument, and fraught with
all the dangers which have been enumerated.
For if the New-York patentee be the inventor,
the law of New-York is absolute, and however
unconstitutional it may be, there is no power of
resistance. Besides, the argument is incorrect.
To illustrate this, suppose a grant from Virginia,
within the military reservation- in Ohio, after she
had ceded the whole territoryto the United States;
would the party in possession, even if a mere intruder, be bound to show.a grant from the United
States, before he could resist the unlawful grant
of Virginia? But there The plaintiff would be
claiming under a State which had previously ceded
away the power to. make such grants, which is
precisely the case here, so that there need be ho
repugnance arising from patents. If a repugiance exist between the laws of New-York and
the constitution and laws of the Onited States,
any citizen of the United States has a fight to act

OF THE UNITED STAtES.

as if the law of New-York were a nullity; and 1824.
the question of its nullity and validity arises, -Gibbons
V.
wherever.an attempt is made to enforce it.
But it was argued thac the power of Congress Ogdeu.
is limited to inventors, .and that the power to encourage by. patents the introduction of foreign
.discoveries,. stands clear of this constitutional
grant. If it were necessary, this doctrin,. might
be questioned. The statute of the 21st James I.
c. 3. uses the same word with the constitution,
"inventors';" and the decisions upon the construction of this statute might be referred to, in order
to show that it has been considered as embracing
discoveries imported from abload.a But, even
acceding to this doctrine, it might be asked whmether the question now before the Court had any
thing to"do with an art, machine, or improvement,
imported from abroad ? The privilege here granted
by the State, is to an American citizen, who claims
to be the inventor. The privilege is the reward
of invention, not of importation, and this it is
which brings it in conflict with the apt of Cngress. It is true, the law does not calf him the
inventor; it calls him merely the "possessor."
But, can the constitution, and laws of the United
States be evaded in this manner? If lie was not
the inventor, why this unjust tax which has been
levied upon our admiration and gratitude? When
the validity of a law is challenged for a fraudulent
evasion of the rights of others, you are not bound
by its own averments, but may resort to proof
a

17' P'in.211.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

aliunde to establish the facts. The word possesi a new and unusual word to ap'ply to such a
Gibbon.w S-3r
case, and marks a studious effort to conceal the
v.
Ogden. truth. He was, of necessity, either the inventor
or the importer. If he was the importer, there is
no conceivable reason why he Should be. called by
any other than that name. The Legislature of
New-York, in its act in behalf of Fitch, passed
before the adoption of the constitution, had no

difficulty in applying the natural and appropriate
But when the final law was passed
name to hn
in favour of Livingston and Fulton, in 1798, the
constitution of the United States, which cedes
this power to Congress, had been adopted, and
the laws by which that power is executed had
been passed. This constitution and these laws
used the term inventors. But the privilege was
too short. The State of New-York offered better
terms. The only difficulty was, to give them effect
without encroaching upon that power which had
been constitutionally exercised by Congress. It
would not do to call them inventors, and the
device was adopted of calling him merely the possessor, whiich was a manifest evasion of the law
of Congress.
But it was contended, that the patent laws of
the United States give no right; they only secure
a pre-existing right at common law. What then
do these statutes accomplish? If they do nothing
more than give the inventor a chattel interest in
his invention, and a remedy for its violation, he
had these at common law. And if they only give
him a mere right.to use his invention in the States,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

with their permis-;on, lie had that before. The
case of Millar v. Taylor provesthe right to have
been perfect at common law. The time of enjoyment was far greater. Thompson's Seasons
had been published forty years when that action
was brought. If the patent and copy-right laws
were-merely intended to secure an exelusive right
throughout the United States, and are, in fact, a
limitation on the common law right, (ais was contended by the respondent's counsel,) when this
right has been thus secured throughout the United
States, and a limitation constitutionally put upon
it by Congress, can a State interfere with this
regulation? The limitation is not for the advantage of the inventor, but of society at large, which
is to take the benefit of the invention after the
period of limitation has expired. The patentee
pays a duty on his patent, which is an effective
source of revenue to theUnited States. It is virtually a contract between each patentee and the
people of the United States, by which tile time of
exclusive and secure enjoyment is limited, and
then the benefit of. the discovery results to the
public. A State cannot, by its local laws, dereat
this resulting interest of the whole Union.'
But it wa said that a State might prohibit the
use of a patented machine, -if it be noxious to the
health of its citizens, or of an immoral or impious
book, the copy-right of which had been secured.
The answer to all such arguments was, that it
would be time enough to consider such questions
when they. arise. The. constitutional power of
Congress is to patent useiful discoveries. The

1824.
Gibbons

v.
0gdn.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUMT

1824.

patent authorizes the patentee to use his invention t
and it is the use which is secured. When a disGibboM
V. covery is deemed useful by .the national governOgden. ment, and a patent shall issue authorizing the
patentee to use it throughout the United States,
and the patentee shall be obstructed by a State in
the exercise of this right, on the ground that the
discovery is useless and dangerous, it will be time
enough to consider the power of the ,States to
defeat the exercise of the right on this ground.
But this is not the question before the Court. It
might be admitted, that the State had authority to
prohibit the use of a patented machine on that
ground, or of a book, the copy-right of which
had been secured, on the ground of its impiety or
ii6morality. But the laws which are now in judg"ment were not passed upon any such ground.
The question raised by theni is, can the States
obstruct the operation of an hct of Congress, b
takiijg the power from the National Legislature
into their own hands? Can they prohibit the publication of an immoral book, licbnsed' by Congress, on the pretext of its immorality, and then
give an exclusive right to publish the same book
themselves? Can they prohibit the use of'an invention on the ground of its noxiousness, and
then authorize the exclusive use of the same invention by their own law?
But there is no pretext of noxiousness hero.
The authority to enact these laws is taken up
under a totally distinct head of State power. It
is the sovereign power to grant exclusive privileges
and create monoijolies, the constitution and jaws

%-

'

OF T11E UNITED STATEAT7

of the United States to the contrary notwithstanding. This is the real power under whiqh these
laws are defended; and it may perplex, although
it cannot enlighten the discussion, to confound it
with another and a distinct head of State power.
If then the power of securing to authors and inventors the use of their writings and discoveries,
be exclusively vested in Congress, the acts of
NeW-York are void, because they are founded on
the exercise of the same power by the State.
And if the power be concurrent, these- aots are
still void, because they interfere with the legislation of Congres on the same subject.
These laws were also void, because they interfere with the power given to Congress, to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States. This nullity of the State laws
would be supported, first, upon the ground of"the
power being exclusive in Congress; and, secondly,
that if concurrent these -laws directly interfered
with those of Congress on the same subject.
That this power was exclusive, would be manifest from the fact, that the commerce to be regulated, was that of the' United States; that the
government by which it was to bp regulated, was
also that- of the United States; and that the subject itself wasone undivided subject. It was an
entirei regular,'and-unifQrm system,-which was
to be carried into effect, and would not admit of
the participation and interference of another hand..
Does not regulation, ex zi ter-mini, imply harnonyand uniformity of action ? If this must be admitted to be the natural and proper force of he
Vol. M -

23

177
1824.
Gibbons

V.
Ogdeln

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUWI

1824.

term, let us suppose that the additional term, uni-

form, had been introduced into the constitution,
so as to provide that Congress should have power
v.
Ogden. to make uniform regulations of commerce through-

O

Gibbons

out the United States. Then, according to the
adjudications on the power of establishing a uniform rule of naturalization, and unifornp laws of
bankruptcy, throughout the United States, this
power would unquestionably have been exclusive
in Congress. But regulation of that commerce
which pervades the Union, necessarily implies
uniformity, and the same result, therefore, follows as if the word had been inserted.
With regard to the quarantine -laws, and othor
regulations of police, respecting the public health
in the several States, they do not partake of the
character of regulations of the commerce of the
United States. It had been said, that these local
regulations were recognised by Congress, which
had made them a part of its own system of commerce. But this recognition would have been superfluous, if they.could have stood without it on the
basis of State sovereignty; and so far as their
adoption by Congress could be.considered as affecting the question, the manner and purpose of
the recognition operated the other way. Itwould
be found that, by the commercial regulations which
Congress had made, a general system was adopted, which, if executed in every instance, would
have carried ships and-vessels into all the ports of
the several States, their local quarantine laws to the
contrary notwithstanding. An express regulation
is. therefore, introduced, requiring- the collectors

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the customs to conform the execution of their
official duties, under the navigation and revenue
laws; with the quarantine laws of the respective
States. Without such alrovision, the local health
laws must have given way'to the supremacy of the
navigation and revenue laws of the Union.
A serious objection to the exclusive nature of
this power of regulating commerce, was supposed
to arise from the express prohibitions on the States,
contained in the 10th see. of the 1st art. of the constitution. It has been considered, that these prphi-

bitions imply that, as to every thing not prohibited,
the power-of the State was meant to be reserved ;
and the authority of the authors of the Federalist,
was cited in support of this interpretation. But
another cbmmentator, of hardly less imposing authority, and .writing, not as a polemic, for the purpose of vindicating the constitution against populIar objections, but for the mere purpose of didactic
ifistruction as a professor, with this section before
him, and with a strbng leaning towards State pretensions, considers the power to regulate commerce as an exclusive power.a But the'difference
between them is rather in appearance, than in reality. It does not appear that the author of that
number of the Federalist, did himself consider
these police regulations as, properly speaking, regulations of the commerce of the Union. But the.
objectors to the constitution had presented them
as such, and his argument in substance is, thut if
a Tucker's BL. Com. part 1. .lppx. 180,

1824.
Gibbons

Y.

Ogd ,

CASES N THE SUPREME COUR'f

1824.
Gibbons
Gibbon

v.
Ogden.

they are, the constitution does not affect them.
The other commentator did not consider them as
regulations of the commerce of the Unites States;
for if he did, he could not-admit them, as he did,
to be left in the States, and yet hold the opinion
that the power to regulate commerce was exclusively vested in Congress. But might not a reason for these prohibitions be found, in the recent
experience of the country, very different from that
which had heretofore been assigned for them.
The acts prohibited, were precisely those which
the States had been passing, and which mainly led
to the adoption of the constitution. The section
might have been inserted ex abundanticautela.
Or the convention might have regarded the previous clause, which grants the power to regulate
commerce, as exclusive throughout the whole subject ; and this section might have been inserted to
qualify its exclusive character, so far "as to permit
the States to do the things mentioned, under the
superintendance and with the consent of Congress.
If either or both of these motives combined for
inserting the clause, the inference which had been
drawn from it against the exclusive power of Congres4 to regulate commerce, would appear to be
wholly unwarranted.
But if these police regulations of the States are
to be c6nsidered as a part -ofthe immense mass of
commercial powers, is not the subject susceptible
of division, and may not some portions of it be 6xelusively vested in Congress ?, It was viewing the
subject in this light, that induced his learned asso-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ciatea to assume the position which had been mis- 1824.
conceived on the other side. This propositionwas,- Gibbons
not that all the commercial powers .are exclusive,
v.
Ogden.
are
there
separated,
being
powers
those
that
but
some which are exclusive in their nature- and
among thein, is that power which concerns navigation, and which prescribes the vehicles in which
commerce shall be carried on. It was, however,
immaterial, so far as this case was concerned, whether the power of Congress to regulate commerce
be exclusive or concurrent. Supposing it to be
concurrent, it could not be denied, that where Congress has legislated concerning a subject, on which
it is authorized to act, all State legislation which
interferes with, it, is absolutely void; It was not
denied, that Congress has power to regulate 'the
coasting trade. It.was not denied that Congress
had regulated it. If the vessel now in question,
was sailing under .the authority of these reglatibns, and has been arrested by a law of New-York
forbidding her sailing the State law. must,. of necessity,.be void. The coasting trade did, indeed,
exist before the constitution was adopted; it might
safely be admitted, that it existed by the jus cornmune of nations ; that it existed by an. imperfect
right ; and that the States might prohibit or permit it at their pleasure, imposing upon it any regulations they thought fit, within the limits of their
respective territorial jurisdictions. But those regulations were as various as the States; continually conflicting, and the source of perpetual disa .r, Webste.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

cord and confusion. In this condition, the constiGibostution found the coasting trade. It was not a thing
Gibbons
v.
which required to be created, for it already existOgden.
ed. But it was a thing which demanded regulation, and the power of regulating it was given to
Congress. They acted upon it as an existing subject, and regulated it in a uniform manner throughout the Union. Aft6r this regulation, it was no
longer an imperfect right, subject to the future
control of the States. It became a perfect right,
protected by the laws of Congress, with wliehi the
States had no authority to interfere. It was for
the very purposle of putting an end to this interference, that the power was given to Congress ; and
if they still have a right to act upon the subject, the
power was given in vain. To say that Congress
shall regulate it, and 'et to say that the States
shall alter these regul .ions at pleasure, or disregard them altogether, would be to say, in the some
breath, that Congress shall regulate it, and shall
not regulate it; to give the power with one hand,
and to take it back with the other. By the acts
for regulating the coastingtrade, Congress had defined what should be required to authorize a vessel to trade from port to port ; and inl this definition, not one word is said as to whether it is moved
by sails or ly fire; whether it carries passengers
or merchandise. The license gives the authority
to sail, without any of those qualifications. That
the regulation of commerce and navigation, includes the aufhority of regulating passenger ves.sels as well as others, would appear from the most
approved definitions" of the term commerce. It al-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ways implies intercommunication and intercourse. 1824.
This is the sense in which the constitution uses it;-1gbbu
and the-great national object was, to regulate the
V.
terms on which intercourse between foreigners Ogden.
and this country, and between the different States
of the Union, should be carried on. If freight be
the test of commerce, this vessel was earning
freight; for what is freight, but the compensation
paid for the use of a ship ? The compensation for
the carrying of passengers may be insured .as
freight. The whole subject is regulated by the
general commercial law; and Congress has superadded special regulations applicable to vessels
employed in. transportingpassengers fromEurope.
InnDne of the'acts regulating the navigation of the
country; whether employed in the foreign or coasting trade, had any allusion been made to the kind
of vehicles employed, further than the general description of ships or vessels, nor to the means or
agents by which they weae propelled.
In conclusion, the Atwoie-General obscrved,
that his learned friend (Mr. Emmett) had eloquently personified the State of New-York, casting
her ej~es over the ocean, witnessing every where
this triumph of her genius, and exclaiming, in the
language of AEneas,
11Quae regio in terris,

uostri non plena laboris?"

*Sir, it was not in the moment of triumph, nor
-with feelings of triumph, that Eneas uttered that
-exclamation. It was when, with his faithful Acha-tes by his side, he was surveying the works of art

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUAT

1824.

with which the palace of Carthage was adorned,
Gibbo1Gibbons' and his attention had been caught by a represenv.
tation of the battles of Troy. There he saw the
Ogden. sons of Atreus and Priam, and the fierce Achilles.
The whole extent of his misfortunes-the loss and
desolation of his friends-the fall of his beloved
country, rush upon-his recollection.
't Constitit, et lac7rymans; Quis jam locus, inquit, Achate,
Qum regio in terris nostri non plena laboris ?1

-

Sir, the passage may, hereafter, have'a closer
application to the cause than my eloquent and
classical friend intended. For, if the state of
things which has already commenced is to go on;
if the Spirit of hostility, which already exists in
three of our States, is. to catch by contagion, and
spread among the rest, as, from the progress of the
human passions, and the unavoidable conflict of
interests, it will too surely do, what are we to
expect? Civil wars have often arisen from far
inferior causes, and have desolated some of the
fairest provinces of the earth. History is full of
the afflicting narratives of such wars, from causes
far inferior; and it will continue to be her mournful office to record them, till time shall be no more.
It is a momentous decision which this Court is
called on to make. Here are three States almost
on the eve of war. It is the high province of this
Court to interpose its benign and mediatorial influence. The framers of our admirable constitution would have deserved the wreath of immor-

QP THE UNITED STATES.

185

tality which they have acquired, had they done 182A.
nothing dlse ihn to establish this guardian tribu-.
v.
nal, to harmonize the jarring elements in our systern. But, sir, ifyoudo not interpose your friendly O'Ogii
hand, and extirpate the seeds of anarchy which
New-York has sown; yoti 4Uill- have civil war.
The war of leg.3lation, which has already commenced, will, according to its usual course, become a war of blows. Your country will be shaken
with civil strife. Your republican institutions- will
perish'in the conflict. Your constitution will fall.
The last hope of nations will be gone. And, wha
will be the effet upon the rest of the world?
Look abroad atthe scenes which hre now passing
on our globe, and -judge of that effect. .The
friends of free government throughout the earth,
-who have been heretofore 'animated by our example, and have held it up before them as their po lar star, to guide them through the stormy seas of
revolution, will witness our fall-with dismay ahd
despair. The arm that is every where lifted in
the cause"6f liberty, will drop, unnerved, *by the
warrior's side. . Despotism will have its day of
triumph, and- will accomplish the-purpose at which
.it too certainly aims. It will-cover the earth" with
the mantle of- mourning. Then, sir, when New_York shall .look upon this scene *ofruin, if -she
have the generous feelings which I believe her to
have, it will not be with her head aloft, in the
pride of conscious triumph-" her rapt soul sitting
ifl her eyes';" no; sir, no: dejected, wvith shame
and confusion-drooping under the weight of 'her
VOL. AX:

24

186

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1824.
i
Gibbons

sorrow, with a voice suffocated with despair, 'well
may she them exclaim,

V.

Ogden.

"Qtuis jam locus,
Qum regio in terris nostri non plena laboris "

Manh .

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court, and, after stating the case, pro-

ceeded as follows:
The appellant contends that this decree is erroneous, because the laws which purport to give
the exclusive privilege it sustains, are repugnant
to the constitution and laws of the United States.
They are said to be repugnant--1st. To that clause in the constitution which
authorizes Congress to regulate commerce.
2d. To that which authorizes Congress to-promote the progress of science and useful arts.
The State of New-York maintains the consti.tutionality of these laws; and their. Legislature,
their Council of Revision, and'their Judges, have
repeatedly concurred in this opinion. It is supported by great names-by names which have all
the titles to consideration that virtue, intelligence,
and office, can bestow. No tribunal can approach
the decision of this question, without feeling a
just and real. respect for that opinion which is
sustained by such authority; but it is the province
of this-Court, while it respects, not to bow to it
implicitly; and the Judges must exercise, in the
.examination of the subject, that understanding
which Providence has bestowed upon them, with
that independence which the people of the United

OF THE UNITED STATES

States expect from this department of the govern- 1824.
ment.
Gibbons
v.
of
discussions
able
very
the
to
preliminary
As
Ogden.
the
from
heard
have
we
which
the constitution,
construe- Priciples ot
bar, and as having some influence on its
sipolitical
the
to
made
tion, reference has been
tuation of these States, anterior to its formation.
It has been said, that they were sovereign, were
completely independent, and were connected with
each other only by a league. This is true. But,
when these allied sovereigns converted their league
into a government, when they converted their
Congress of Ambassadors, deputed to deliberate
on their common concerns, and to recommend
measures of general utility, into a Legislature,
empowered to enact laws on the most interesting
subjects, the whole character in which the States
appear, underwent a change, the extent of which
must be determined by a fair consideration of the
instrument by which that change was effected.
This instrument contains an enumeration of
powers expressly granted by the people .to their
government. It ha§ been said, that these powers
ought' to be construed strictly. But why ought
they to be so construed? Is there one sentence ir
the constitution which gives countenance to this
rule? In the last of the enumerated powers, that
which grants, expressly, the means for ca\rying all
others into execution, Congress is authorized "to
make all laws which shall be necessary and proper"
for the purpose. But this limitation on the means
which may be used, is not extended to the powers
which are conferred; nor is there one sentence in

CASES.IN THE.SUPREME COURT

1824. -the constitution, which hdis bee*n pointed.out by the
%-O ' gentlemen Df the bar; or which we have been able
v.
V
to discern, that prescribes this iule. We do not,
ogden. therefore, think ourselves justified in adopting it.
Whatrdo gentlemen mean; bi a strict'construction ?
If they contend only against that enlarged consttuction, which'woulil ektend words beyond their
natural. and obvious iniport, we might questi6n the
application of thejterm, but should not controvert
the. principle. If they contend for that narrow
construction which, in .support of some theory not
to be found in the constitutioii, would deny to the
government those powers which the words of the
grant,.'ae usually understood, import, and which
are consistent-vith the general vieWs and objects
-bf the instrumdht; for that narrow cobstruction,
which would cripple. the government, and render it
-unequal to the object for which it is declared to
be instituted, and to which ihe powers given, as
fairly'unddrstoo'd, render it c)ipeient; then we
cannt--perceive the 1propriety' of this, strict construction, nor -adopt it as the" rule,by which the
constitution is' to be expounded. . As men, whose
intentions require no concealment, generally employ the words which most. directly and. aptly. express.the ideas they intend to.convey, tfie enlightened,atriots " who framed our constitution, and
the.people who adopted it, must bd understood to
have emp!oyed. words in their natural sense, and
tQ .bave intended what theyhave said. If, from
tha impeffection" of human lnguage, there should
be serious doubts respecting the extent-of any,given power, it is a well settled rule, that the 6bjects

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for which it was given, espeqially when those ob 1824.
jects are expressed in the instrument itself, should 0 bow
V.
have great influence in the construction. We know
of no reason for excluding-this rule from the present case. Th. grant does no.t convey power which
might be beneficial to the grantor, if retained'by
himself, or which .can enure solely to the benef
of the grantee; but is an investment of.power for
tle gene.ral- advantage, in the hands of' agents selected for -thatpurpose " which power can never be
exercised by the people themselves, but must be
placed in the hands of agents, or lie dormant. We
know of no rule for construing the extent of such
powers, other than is given by the language of the
instrument which confers them, taken in connexion with the purposes for which" they were conferred.
The words • are, "Congress shall have
power. of The
power
.
iegulating
to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
comperc,
ex. .. tends
to the
among the several States, and with the -indianreglatlo
tribes."

. The subject to beregulated is commercd; and
:ur constitution being, as was aptly said at the bar,
one of enumeration, and not of definition, to ascertaifi the extent of the power, it becomes necessary to settle-the meaning of the word. The aounsel
for the appt'llee would limit it to traffic, to buying
and selling, or the interchange of commodities,
and do not admit that it comprehends navigation..
This would. restrict a general term, qpplicable to
many objects, tQ one of its significations. Commerce, undoubtedly, is traffic, but it is something
more.: it is intercourse. It describes the corn-

nargatwn.

of

190

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'

mercial intercourse between nations, and parts of
Snations, in all its branches, and is regulated by
V. prescribing rules fpr carrying on that intercourse.
gdeh. The !mind can scarcely conceive a system for regulating commerce between nations, which shall
exclude all laws concerniLg navigation, which shall
be silent on the admission of the vessels of the
one nation into the ports of the other, and be confined to prescribing rules for the conduct of individuals, in the actual employment of buying and
selling, or of barter.
If commerce does not include navigation, the
government of the Union has no direct power
over'that subject, and can make no law prescribing what shall constitute American vessels, or
*requiring that they shall be navigated by American seamen. Yet this power has been exercised
from the commencement of the government, has
been exercised iith the consent of all, and has
been understood by all to be a commercial regulation, All America understands, and has uniformly understood, the -word "commerce," to comprehend navigation. It was so understoodi and must
have been -so understood, when the constitution
was framed. The power over commerce, including navigation, was one of the primary objects for
which the people of America adopted their government, and must have been contemplated in formig it. IThe convention must have used the wiord
irthat sense, because all have understood it in that
sense; and the attempt to restrict it comes too late.
If the opinion that "commerce,!i as -the word
is used in the constitutiop,. comprehends," aviga-

lb24.

Gibbons

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion also, requires any additional confirmation, 1824.
that additionil confirmation is,-we think, .furnish- Gibbons
ed by the words of the instrument itself.
v.
Ogden.
by
acknowledged
construction,
of
It is a rule
all, that the exceptions from a power mark its extent; for it would be absurd, as well as useless,
to except from a granted power, that which was
not granted-that which the words of the grant
could not comprehend. If, then, there are in the
constitution plain exceptions from the power over
navigation, plain inhibitions tb the exercise of
that power in a particular way, it is a proof that
thase who made these exceptions, and prescribed
these inhibitions, understood the power to which
they applied as being granted.
The 9th sectiQn of the 1st article declares, that
"no preference shall be given, by any regulation
of commerce or revenue, to the ports of one State
over those of a'nother." This clause cannot be
understood as applicable to those laws only which
are passed for the purposes of revenue, because it
is expressly applied to commercial regulations ;
and the most obvious preference which can be gi-yen to one port over another, in regulating commerce, relates to navigation. But the subsequent
part of the sentence is still more explicit. It is,
"nor shall vessels bound to or from one State, be
obliged to ente-r,-clear, -or pay duties, in another."
These words have a direct reference to navigation.
The universally acknowledged power of the
government to impose embargoes, must also be
considered as showing, that all America is united

1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

in that construction which comprehendsua'vigation in the word commerce. Gentlemen have
v.
said, in argument, that this is a- branch of the
-Ogdm. war-making power, and that an embargo is an instrument of war, not a regulation of trade.
Thati it may. be; and often is, used'as an instru.ment of war, cannot be denied. An embargo
may be' imposed for the purpose of facilitating
the equipment or manning of a flebt,, or for the
purpose of concealing the 'progress of an expedi"rion preparing to sail from a particular port. In.
these,"and in similar cases, it is a military. instru*ent, and partake.s of the, nature of war. But
all embargoes are not of this description., They
are sometimes resorted tb without a view to wari
and with- a single view:to commerce. -In such
casban embargo is no moreoa war measure, than
a merchantman .is a- ship of war, because, both
are vessels which ,navigate the .Qcean. with, sails
em seamen.
When Congress imp6sed thatembargo which;
for a time, engaged theattention'of every mari- in,
the United States, 'the avowed. object'of the "law
was;.te. protection of commerce,-and the avoiding
of war."' By its friends and its. *namio it, was
treated as a commercial, not as awar measure,
The persevering earnestness, and 'zeal with' which
it-was opposed., in a part of our countryvwhich
supposed its interests to be vitally affected by the
act, cannot be forgotten. A want of acuteness
in discovering objections to a measure to which
t ey felt the most deep rooted hostility, will not
be imputed to those who were arrayed in opposi-

'OFtHE U IED STATES

tion'to-this.- Yet they never suspected that navi- 1824.
gation was no branch of trade, wad -was, therev.
fore, not compreh.ended in the power -to regulate
commerce.- They did, indeed,, contest the con- ogde
stitutionality of the act, but, on a principle which
admits the construction for vhich the appellant
contends. They denied that the particular law
in question-was made in pursuance of-the constitution; not.because the power could not act directly
on vessels, but because a perpetual embargo was
the annihilation, and not the regulation of commerce. In terms, they admitted the applic'ability
of the woirds used -in the constitution to vessels;
and thati in a case which produced a degree and
an extent of excitement, calculated to'draw forth
every principle on which legitimate resistance
could be sustained. No example could more
strongly- illustrate the universal understanding of
the American-people on this subject."
. The word used in the constitution,, then, comprehends', and has been-always und rstood to comprehend,. navigation .within its meaning; and a
power to regulate -navigation, 'is as -ekpressly
granted, as if that term had been added t. the
word " commerce."
The power t5
w

regulato cptu-

thispowe extndto
etend? ev, ".
To What commerce .does this power
The constitution informs us, to commerce "with ces
of
mercial interforeign nations, and- -among the several States, tween
course tho~ni,
b
-and with the Indian.tribes."
ted Stages and
•.
..
forelgl,
nu
It has, we believe, " been
admitted,,Mogthe
t"au
sea904,,
a" -" universally
-"

tiat these words comprehend every species ofaist?,
it
ommercial intercourse between the United States dt
op
boundary of a
arj foreign nations... No sort of trade can be so..
VOL. IX.

25

194

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

1824.
Gibbon
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

carried on between this-country and any other, to
which this power does not extend.

It has been

truly said, that commerce, as the word is used in
the constitution, is a unit, every part of which is

indicated by the term.
If this bo the admitted meaning of the word,
in its application to foreign nations, it must carry
the same meaning throughout the .sentence, aid
remain a unit, unless there be some plain intelligible cause which alters it.
The subject to which the power is next applied,
is to commerce "among the several Sttktes." The
word "among" means intermingled with. A thing
which is among others, is intermingled with them.
Commerce among the States, cannot stop at the
external boundary line of each State, but may be
introduced into the interior.
But it does
It is not intended to say that these words cornnot extend to
a cnmeme prehend that cominerce, which is completely inwhich is completely inter- ternal, which is carried on between man and man
nal.
in a State, or between different parts of the same
State, and which does not extend to or affect
other States. Such a power would be inconvenient, and is certainly unnecessary.
Comprehensive as the word "among" is, it may
very properly be restricted to that commerce which
concerns more States than one. The phrase is
not one which would probably have been selected
to indicate the completely interior, traffic of a
StaLe, because it is not an apt phrase for that purpose; and the enumeration of the particular classes
if commerce,,to which the power was to be extended, wo'at n~t have been made,':had the inton-

OF THE UNITED STATES,

tion been to extend the- .power to every description.

1824.

The enumeration presupposes something 11
'
.Gibbons

not enumerated; and that something, if -we regard the language or the subject of the sentence,
must be'the exclusively internal commerce of a
State. The genius and character of the whole
government seem to be, that its action is to be
applied to all-the external concerns of the nation,
and to -those internal concerns which affect the
States generally; but not to those which are completely within a particular State, which do not
affect other States, and with which it is nQt necessary to interfere, for the purpose of executing some
of the general powers of the government. The
completely internal commerce of a State, then,
may be considered as reserved for the State itself.
But, in regulating commerce .with foreign nations, the power of Congress does not stop at the
jurisdictional lines of the several States. It would
bea very useless power, if it could not pass those
lines. The commerce of the United States with
foreign nations, is that of the whole United States.
Every district has a right 'to pirticipate in it. The
'deep streams which penetrat" our country in every
direction, pass through ihe interior of almost every
State in the Union, and furnish the means of exercising this right. If Congress has the power to
regulate it, that lf6wer must be exercised whenever the subject exists. If it exists. within the
States, if a foreign voyage may commence or terminate at a port within a State, then the power of
Congress may be exercised within a Stat..,
This principle is, if possible, still more clear,when

v.
Og&n.

196

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

applied to commerce '.ambng the several States."
~
They eitherjoin each other, in which case they.are
Gibbons
V. separated by a mathematical line, or they are reOgden. mote from each other, in which case other States
lie between them. What is commerce "am6ng"
them; and how is it to be conducted? Can a trading expedition between two adjoining States,
commence and terminate outside of each ? And
if the trading intercourse be between two States
remote from each other, mut it not commeoce in
one, terminate in the other, and probably pass
through a third? Commerce among the States
must, of necessity, be commerce with the States.
In the regulation of trade with the Indian tribes,
the action of the law, especially. when the constitution was made, was chiefly within a State. The
power of Congress, then, whatever it may be, must
be exerbised within the territorial jurisdiction of
the several States. The sense of the nation on
this subject, is unequivocally manifested by the
provisioijs made in the laws for transporting goods,
by land, between Baltimore and Providence, between New-York and Philadelphia, and between
Philadelphia and Baltimore.
We are now arrived at the inquiry-What is this
power ?

Thq power to pwr

It is the power to regulate; that is, to prescribe
the rule by which commerce is to be governed.
1.0
l,,itatio,,
1but such as are This power, like all others vested in Congress, is
prescribed
iacomplete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost
the coustituon itself.
extent, and acknowledges no limitations, other
than are prescribed in the constitution. Theso
are expressed in plain terms, and do not affect the
reguate _oM,a,and ha

OF THE UNITED STATES.

197

questions which arise in this case, or which have 1824.
been discussed at the bar. If, as has always been Gibbons
understood, the sovereignty of Congress, though
V.
limited to specified- objects, is plenary as to thos
Ogde.
objects, the power over commerce with foreign nations, and -among the several States, is vested-in
Congress as absolutely as it would, be in a single
government, having in its-cohstitution the same restrictions on the exercise of the power as are found
iWthe donstitution of the Unifed States. The wisdom and the discretion of Congress, their idlntity
with the people, and the-influence which their constituents possess at elections, are, in this,.as in
many other instances, as that, for exampte, of declaring war, the sole restraints on which they have
relied, to secure them from its abuse. They are
th restraints on which the people must often rely
solely, in. all representative governments.
The power of Congress, then, comprehends navigation; within the limits of every State in the
Union; so far as that navigation may be, in any
manner, connected with "commerce with foreign
nations, or among the several States, or with the
Indihn tribes." It may, of consequence, pass the
jurisdictional line of New-York, and act upon the
very waters to which the prohibition now under
consideration applies.
But it has been urged with great earnestness,
that, although the power of Congress to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the
-several States, be co-extensive with the subject itself, and have no other limits than are prescribed
in the constitutiofi, vet the States may severally

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

\

1824.
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

exercise the same power, within their respective jurisdictions. In support of this argument, it is
said, that they possessed it as an inseparable attribute of sovereignty, before the formation of tho

constitution, iind still retain it, except so far as
they have surrendered it by that instrument ; that
this principle results from the nature of the government, and is secured by the tenth amendment;
that an affirmative grant of power is not exclusive,
urriess in its own nature it be such that the continued exercise of it by the former possessor is inconsistent with the grant, ad that thi's is not of
that description.
The appellant, conceding these postulates, except the last, contends, that full power to regulate a particular subject, implies the whole power,
and leaves no residuum; that a grant of the whole
is incompatible with the existence of a right in
another to any part of it.
Both parties have appealed to the constitution,
to legislative acts, and judicial decisions; and
have drawn arguments from all these sources, to
support and illustrate the propositions they respectively maintain.
The power to:
The grant of the power to lay and collect taxes
regulate con1mnerce, so far is like the power to regulate commerce, made in
as it extends,
r
is exclusively
vested
in Con- general terms, and has never been understood to
gress, and .o interfere with the exercise of the same power by
patt of it can
be exercised the States; and hence has been drawn ani arguby a State.
ment which has been applied to the question under consideration. But the two grants are not,
it is conceived, similar in their terms or their .nature. Although 'Many of the powers formerly

OF THE UNITED STATES.9

199

exercised by the States, are -transferred to the 1824.
government of the Union, yet the State govern- '*Gibbons
V.
merits remain, and constitute a r o4t important
part of our system. The power of taxation ii in- Ogdw.
dispensabl.e to their existence, and is a power
which, in its own nature, is capable of residing
in, and being exercised by, different authorities
at the same time. We are accustomed to see it
placed, for different purposes, in different hands.
Taxation is the simple operation- of taling small
portions from a perpetually accumulating mass,
susceptible of almost infinite division; and a power
in one to take what is necessary for certain purposes, is not, iin its nature, incompatible with a
power in another to tak'e what is necessary for
other purposes. -Congress is authorized to lay
and collect taxes, &c. to pay the debts; and provide for the common defence and general welfare
of the United States. This does not interfere
with the power of the States to tax for the support
of their own governments; nor is the exercise of
that power by the States, an exercise of any portion of the power that is granted to the United
States. In imposing taxes for State purposes,
they are not doing what Congress is empowered
to do. Congress is not empowered to tax for
those purposes which are within the exclusive province of the States. When, then, each governmeat exercises the power of taxation, neither is
exercising the power of the other. But, when a
State proceeds to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, or among the several States, it is exercising the very power that is granted to Congress,

200

CASES IN THE SUPREME- COURT

1824. and is doing -thevery thing which Congress is au.4-gyp then, beGibbons,- thorized to do.. There is 'no analogy,
V. tween the power of taxation and the power of
Ogden. regulating commerce.
In di scussing the question, whether this power
is still in !he States, in the case under consideration, we may dismiss from it the inquiry, whether
it is surrendered by the mere grant to Congress,
or is retained until Congress shall exercise the
power. We may dismiss that inquiry, because it
has been exercised, and the .regulations which
Congrebs deemed it proper to make, are now in
full operation. The sole question is,'can a State
regttlate commerce with fpreign nations and among
the States, while Congress is tegulating it?
The counsel for the respondent answer this
question in the affirmative, and rely very much- on
the restrictions in the 10th section, as. supporting
their opinion. They say, very truly, that limitations
of a power, iurnish a strong arguinent in favour
of the'existence of that power, and that the section which prohibits the States from laying duties
on imports or exports, proves that this power
might have been exercised, had it not been expressly forbidden; and, consequently, that any
other commercial regulation, not expressly forbidden,, to which the original power of the State was
competent, may still be made.
That this restriction shows the opinion of the
Convention, that a State might impose duties on
exports and imports, if not expressly forbidden,
will be conceded; but That it ollows as a cohise-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

quence, from this concession, that a State may

1824.

regulate commerce with foreign natibns and among

Gibbans

the States, cannot be admitted.
We must first-iletermine whether the act of laying "duties or imposts.on imports or exports," is
considered in the constitution as a branch of the
taxing power, or of the power to regulate commerce. We think it very clear, thit it is considered as a branch of the taxing power. It is so
treated in the first clause of the 8th section: "Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes.
duties, imposts, arid excises;" and, before commercee is mentioned, the rule by which the exer6ise of this power must be governed, is declared,
It is, that all duties, imposts, and excises, shall
be uniform. In a separate clause' of the enumeration, the power to regulate commerce is given,
as being entirely distinct from the right to levy
taxes and imposts, and as being a new power, not
before cotiferred. The constitution, then, considers these powers as substantive, and distinct
from each other; and so places them in the enumeration it contaiis. - The power of imposing
duties on imports is classed with the power to levy
taxes, and that seems to be its natural place. But
the power to levy taxes could never be considered
as abridging the right of the States on that subject; and they might, consequently, have exercised it Iy levying duties on. imports or exports,
had- the constitution contained no prohibition on
this subject. This prohibition, then, is an exception from the acknowledged power of the States
-

VoL.

L.

V.

Ogdeni

CASES IN THE. SUPREME COURT

1824.
'

Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

to levy taxes, not from the questiopable power to
regulate commerce.
"A duty of tonnage" is 'as much a tax, as a
duty on imports or exports; and. the reason which

induced the prohibition of those taxes, extends to
this also. This tax may be imposed by a State,
with the consent of Congress; and it may be admitted, that Congress cannot give a right to a
State, in virtue of its own powers. But a duty of
tonnage being part of the power of imposing taxes,
its prohibition may certainly be made to depend
on Congress, without affording any implication
respecting a power to regulate commerce. It is
true, that duties may often be, and in fact often
are, imposed on tonnage, with a view to the regulation of commerce; but they may be also imposed with a view to revenue; and it was, therefore, a prudent precaution, to prohibit the States
frbm exercising this power. The idea- that the
same measure might, according to circumstan.ces, be arranged with different classes of power, was no novelty to the framers of our constitution. Those illustrious statesmen and patriots had.been, many of them, deeply engaged in
the discussions which preceded the war of our revolutioni and all of them were well read in those
discussions.
The right to regulate commerce,
even by the imposition of duties, was not controverted; but the right to impose a duty for the
purpose of revenue, produced a war as important,
perhaps, in its consequences to the human race,
as any the world has ever witnessed.
These restrictions, then, are on the taxingpower,

QF THE UNITED STATE,

20*3

not on that to regulate commerce; and presuppose 1824.
the existence of that which they restrain, not of Gibbons
that which they do not purport to restrain.
But, the inspection laws are said to be regula- Ogden.
tions of commerce, and
s,,t lawr,
in• are certainly recognised in spection
the constitution, as being passed in the exercise of health
lrw,
nii laws for
reulaing the
a power remaining with the States.
That inspection laws may have a, remote and ,noce of a
considerable influence on commerce, will not be those .,ih
denied ; but that a power to regulate commerce is pike'nct, f'rthe source from which the right to pass them is not wt.* the
derived, cannot be admitted. The object of in- toPower
gntea
Congress.
spection laws, is to improve, the quality of articles
produced by tJie'labour of a country; to fit them
for exportation; or, it may be, for domestic use.
They act upon the subject before it becomes an
article of foreign commerce, or of comuicrce among
the States, and prepare it for that purpose. They
form a portion of that immense mass of legislation,
which embraces every thing within the territory of
a State, not surrendered to the general government: all which can be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves. Inspection laws,
quarantine laws, health laws of every description,
as well as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a State, and those which respect turnpike roads, ferries, &c., are component parts of
this mass.
No direct general power over these objects is
granted to-Congress ; and, consequently, they remain subject to State legislation. If the legislative power of the Union can reach them, it must
be for national purposes; it must be where the

.t04

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons

V.

Ogden,

power is expressly given for a speoial purpose, or
is clearly incidental to some power which is expressly. given. It is obvious, that the government
of the Union, in the exercise of.its express powers,
that, for example, of regulating commerce with foreign nations and among the States, mayqse means
that may also be employed by a State, in! the exercise of its acknowledged- powers; that, for example, of regulating commerce within the State. If
Congress license vessels to sail from one port to
another, in the same State, the act is supposed to
be, necessarily, incidental to the power expressly
granted to Congress, and implies no claim of a direct power to regulate the purely internal codimerce-of a State, or to act directly on its system of
police.. So, if a State, in passing laws, on subjects'
acknowledged to be within its control, and with a
view to those subjects, shall adopt a measure of
the same character with one which Congress may
adopt, it does not derive its authority from the particular power which has been granted, but from
some other, which remains.with the State, and may
be executed by the same means. All experience
shows, that the same measures, or measures scarcely distinguishable from each other, may flow from
distinct powers; but this does not prove that the
powers themselves are identical. Although the
means used in their execution may sometimes approach each other so nearly as to be confounded,
there are other situations in which they are sufficiently
to establish their individuality.
In ourdistinct
complex system,.presenting the rare
and
difficult scheme of one general government, whose

OF THE UNITED STATES.

205

action extends over the whole, but which possess- 1824.
es only. certain enumerated powers; and of nudie- Gibbons
v.
rous State governinents, which retain and extercise
all powers not delegated to the Union, contests-re- Ogden.
specting p9wer must arise. Were it eVen otherwise, the measures taken by the respective governments to execute their acknowledged pdwers,
would often be of the same descrilition, and might,
sometimes, interfere. This, however, d6es not:
prove that the one is exercising, or has a right to
exercise, the powers of the other.
The acts of Congress, pass.ed in 1796 and 1799,"
empowering and directing the officers of the general government to. conform to, and assist in the execution of the quarantine and health laws of a
State, proceed, it is said, upon the idea that these
laws are constitutional. It is undoubtedly true,
that they do proceed upon that idea; and the constitutionality of such laws has never, so fat as we
are informed, been denied. But they do not. imply an acknowledgment that a State may rightfully
regulate commerce with foreign nations, or among
the States; for they do not imply that such laws
are an exercise of that power, or enacted with a
view to it. On the contrary, they ate treated as
quarantine and health laws,'are io deno~ainated in
the acts of Congress, and ar" considered as flowing from the acknowledged power of a State, to
provide for the health of its citizens. But, as it
was apparent that-some of the provisions made for
this purpose, and in virtue of this power, might
a 2 U.S. L. p. 545.

3 6. S.L.p. 126.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

interfere with, and be affected by the laws of the
Gibbons
nUnited
States, made for the regulation of comV. merce, Congress, in that spirit of harmony and
conciliation, which ought always to characterize
Ogden.
1824.

the conduct of governments standing in the relation which that of the Union and those of the
States bear to each other, has directed its officers
to aid in the execution of these laws; and has, in
some measure, adapted its own legislathn to this
object, by making provisions in aid of those of the
States. But, in making these provisions, the opinion is unequivocally manifested, that Congress
may control the State laws, so far as it may be necessary to control them, for the regulation of commerce.
The act passed in 1803," prohibiting the importation of slaves into any State which shall itself
prohibit their importation, implies, it is said, an
admission that the States possessed the power to
exclude or admit them; from which it-is inferred,
that they possess the same power with respect to
other articles.
If this inference were correct; if this power
was exercised, not under any particular clause in
the constitution, but in virtue of a general right
over the subject of commerce, to exist as long as
the constitution itself, it nMight now be exercised.
Any State might now import African slaves into its
own territory. But it is obvious, that the power
of the States over this subject, previous to the year.
1808, constitutes an exception to the power of
a 3 U. S. L. p. 529.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Congress to regulate commerce, and the exception

1824.

is expressed in such words, as to manifest clearly

Gibbons

the intention to continue the pre-existing right of
the States to admit or exclude, for a limited period.
The words.are, " the migration or importation of
such persons as any of the States. now existing,
e pro ited
shall think proper to admit, shall
Phe
by the Congress prior to the year 1.,08.
whole object of the exception is, to preserve the
power to those States which might be disposed to
exercise iL; and its language seems to the Court

to convey this idea unequivocally, The possession
of this particular power, then, during the time limited in the constitution, cannot be admitted to
prove the possession of any other similar power.
It has been said, that the act of August 7, 1789,
acknowledges a concurrent power in the States to.
regulate the conduct of pilots, and hence is inferred an admission of their concurrent right with
Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and amongst the States. But this inference is not, we think, justified-by the fact.
Although Congress cannot enable a State to legislate, Congress may adopt the provisions of a
Stafe on any subject. When the govqrnment of
the Union was brought into existence, it found a
system for the regulation of its pilots in full force
in every State. The act which has been mentioned, adopts this system, and gives it the same validity as if its provisions had been specially made
by Congress. But the act, it may be said, is prospective also, and the adoption of laws to be made

v.
O'dO.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

in future, presupposes the right in the maker tole-

-Gibbon

gislate on the subject.

V.
ogden.

The act unquestionably manifests an intention
to leave this subject entirely to the States; until
Congress should think proper to interpose; but
the very enactment of such a law indicates an opinion that it was necessary; that the existing system would not be applicable to the new state of
things, unless expressly applied to it by Congress.
But this section is confined to pilots within the
"bays, inlets, rivers, harbours, and ports of the
United States," which arej of course, in whole or
in part, also within the limits of some particular
state. The acknowledged power of a State to regulate its police, its domestic trade, and to govern
its own citizens, may erjable it to legislate on this
subject, to a considerable extent; and the adoption of its system by Congress, and the application
of it to the whole subject of commerce, does not
seem to the Court to imply a right in the States so
to apply it of their own authority. Buit the adoption of the State system being temporary, being
only "until -further legislative provision shall be
made by Congress," shows, conclusively, an opinion that Congress could control the whole subject,
and might adopt the system of the States, or provide one of its own.
A State, it is said, or even a private citizen,
may construct light houses. But gentlemen must
be aware, that if this proves a power in a State
to regulate commerce, it proves that the same
power is in the citizen. States, or individuals
who own lands, may, if not forbidden by law,

OF THEUNITED STATE.S

209

erect-on those lands what buildings theyplease - 1824..
but this power is entirely -distinct from that of re- Oibbonr
gulating commerce, and may, we presum, be
v.
Ogden..
public
a
produce
as.to
go
exercised
if
restrained,
mischief.
These acts were cited at the bar for the purpose of showing an opinion in Congress, that the
States possess, concurrently with the Legislature
of the Union, 'the power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and among the States. Upon
reviewing them, we think they do not establish
the proposition they were intended to prove.
They show the opinion, that the States retain
powers enabling them to pass the laws to which
allusion has been made, not that those laws proceed from the particular power which has been
delegated to Congress.
It has been contended by the counsel for the
appellant, that, asf the word "to regulate" implies
in its-nature, full power over the thing to be regulated, it excludes, necessarily,, the action of all
others that would perform the same operation on
the same.thing. That'regulation is designed for
the entire result, applying to those parts which remain as they were, as vell as"to those which are
altered. It produces a uniform whole, which is.
as much disturbed and deranged by changing
what -the. regulating power designs to leave untouched, as that on which it has operated.
..There is"
great force in this arguhent, .and.the
Court is riot satisfied. that it has been.refuted.
- .Since, however, 'in exercising te power of regulating their own purely internal affaits, whether
VOL. IX.

27

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

of trading or police, the States may sometimes
enact laws, the validity of which depends on their

i
Gibbons

interfering with, and being contrary to, an act of
Congress passed in pursuance of the constitution,
laws of the Court will enter upon the inquiry, whether the
N. The
Y. granting
toR.R.L.and laws of New-York, as expounded by the highest
R. F. the exclusive rightthe
of tribunal of that State, have, in their application
navigating
waters
of
that
State
wvithto this case, come into collision with an act of
V.

Ogden.

,tear
boais, Congress, and deprived a citizen of a right to
are in collision
with the acts which that act entitles him.
Should this collision
of Congress
regulating the exit, it will be immaterial whether those laws
coastingtradove.e
passed in. virtue of a concurrent power
which being
made in pur-,, to replate commerce with foreign nations and
suance of the
constituton, among the several States," or, in virtue of a power
and the State to regulate their domestic trade and police.
In
must
laws
yield to that one case and the other, the acts of New-York
supremacy,
even though must yield to the law of Congress; and the deoint

privilege they confer, against
bya right given by a law of the Union, must be
erroneous.
This opinion has been frequently expressed in
this.C6urt, and is founded, as well on the nature
of the government as on the words of the constir
tution. In argument, however, it has beenicontended, that if a law passed by a State, in the
-exercise of its acknowledged sovereignty, comes
into conflict with a law passed by Congress in
pursuance of the constitution, they affect the subject, and each other, like equal dpposing powers.
But the framers of our constitution foresaw this.
state of things, and provided for it, by declaring
the supremacy not only-of itself, but of the laws
tnade in parsuance of it. The nullity of 'any net,

sustaining the
isuaneofpnw-Son

acknowledged to remain in the
States.
CIs

QF THL UNITED STATES.

211

inconsistent with the constitution, is produced by 1824.
the declaration, that the constitution is- the su- Gibbons
preme law. The appropriate application of that O.
part of the clause which confers the same supre- Ogdeu,
macy on laws and treaties, is to such acts of the
State-Legislatures as do not transcend theirpowers,
but, though enacted in the execution of acknowledged State powers, interfere with, or are contrary to the laws of Congress, made in pursuance
of the constitution, or some treaty made under.
.the authority of the United States. In every such
case, -the act of Congress, or the treaty, is supreme; and the law of the State, though enacted
in the exercise of powers not controverted, must
yield to it.
. In pursuing this inquiry at the bar, it has been
said, that the constitution does not confer the right
of intercourse between State and State. That
right derives its source from those laws whose authority is acknowledged by civilized man throughout the world. This is true. The constitution
found it an existing right, and gave to Congress
the power to regulate it. In the exercise of this
power, Congress has-passed "an act for enrolling
or licensing ships or vessels to be employed in the
coasting trade and fisheries, and for regulating the
same." The counsel for the respondent-contend,
that this Aot -does not give the right to sail from
port to port, but confines'itself to regulating a
pre-existing right,- so far only as to confer certain
privileges on enrolled and licensed vessels in its
exercise.
it will at.once occur; that, wheh a Legislature

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

attaches certain privileges and exemptions to the

b
Gibbons

exercise of a right over which its control is abso-

v.

lute, the law must imply a power to exercise the
right. The privileges tre gone, if the right itself

Ogden.

be annihilated. It would be contrary to all reason,
and to the course of human affairs, to say that a
State is unable to strip a vessel of the particular
privileges attendant on the exercise of' a right,
and yet may annul the right itself; that the State
of New-York cannot preyent an enrolled uind licensed vessel, proceeding from Elizabethtown, in
New-Jersey, to New-York, from enjoying, in her
course, and on her entrance into p.ort, all, the privileges conferred by the act of Congress; l'ut can
shut her up in her own port, and prohibit altogether her entering the waters and ports of another
State. To the Court it seems very clear, that the
whole act on the subject of the coasting trade,
according to those principles which govern the
construction of statutes, implies, unequivocally,
an authority to licensed vessels to carry on the
coasting trade.
Alicence nBut we will proceed briefly to notice those secCtngrss for tions which bear more directly on the subject.
regulating tho
coastingtrade,
first section declares, that vessels enrolled
gives a permsvi The
rtef
tlo
pr.y y virtue of a previous law, and certain
other veson that trade. sels, enrolled as described in that act, and having
a!'cense in force, as is by the act required, "and
no others, shall be deemed ships or vesseld of the
United States, entitled to the privileges of ships or
vessels employed in the coasting trade."
This section seems to the Court to contain a positive enactment, that the vessels it describes shall

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be entitled to the privileges of ships Dr vessblsemployed in the coasting trade. Thesd privileges
cannot be separated from the trade, and cannot be

enjoyed, unless the trade may be.prosecuted. The
grant of the privilege is an :idle, empty form, conveying nothing, unless it convey the right to which
the-privilege is attached, and. in the exercise of
which its whole value consists. To construe these
words otherwise:than ad entitling the ships or vessels described, to carry on the coasting trade,
wbild be, we think; to disregard*the apparent intent of the act.
The fourth section directs the proper officer to
grant to a vessel qualified to receiv& it, "a license
for carrying on the coasting trade;" and prescribes
its form.. After reciting the compliance of the applicant Vith the previous requisites of.the law, the
operative words of the instrument are, 'license is
hereby granted for the said steam:-boai, Bellona, to
be :employed in carrying on the coasting trade for
one year from the date hereof, and 'no longer."
These are not the words of the officer; they are
the words-of the legislature- and convey as explicitly the .authority the act intended to give, and
operate as effectually, as if they had been inserted
inr-any other. part ofthe act; than in the license itself.,
Ihe:word "license," means permission, or authority; and a license td do any particular- thing;
is a.permission or-authority to do that thing; and
ifgraited by a person having power to grant it,
transfers to ihe grantee the right to do whatever it
purports to authori'e. It certainly transfers to

213

1824.
Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

214
1824.
Gibbons

V.

Ogden.

him all the right which the grantor can transfer, to
do what is within the terms of the license.
Would the validity or effect of such an instrument be questioned by the respondent, if executed

by persons claiming regularly under the laws of
New-York ?
The license must be understood to be what it
purports to be, a legislative authority to the steamboat Bellona, "to be employed in carrying on the
coasting trade, for one year from this date."
It has been denied that these words authorize a
voyage from New-Jersey to New-York. It is true,
that no ports are specified ; but it is equally true,
that the words used are perfectly intelligible, and
do confer such authority as unquestionably, as if
the ports had been mentioned. The coasting trade
is a term well understood. The law has defined
it; and all know its meaning perfectly. The act
describes, with great minuteness, the various operations of a vessel engaged in it; and it cannot, we
think, be doubted, that a voyage from New-Jersey
to New-York, ib.one of those operations.
The license
Notwithstanding the decided language of the
is not merely
intended
to license, it has also been maintained, that it gives
confer the national charac- no right to trade; and that its sole purpose is to
ter.
confer the American character.
The answer given to this argument, that the
American character is conferred by the enrolment,
and not by the license, is, we think, founded too
clearly in'the words of the law, to require the support of any additional observations. The enrolment of vessels designed for the coasting trade,
corresponds precisely with the registration of ves-

DF THE UNITED STATES.

215

sels designed for the foreign trade, and requires 1824.
every circumstance which can constitute the Ame- Gibbons
rican character, The license can be granted only
v.
to vessels already dnrolled, if they be of the bur- Ogden.
then of twenty tons and upwards; and requires no
circumstance essential to the American character.
The object of the license, then, cannot be to ascertain the character of the vessel, but to do what
it professes to do-that"is, to dive permission to a
vessel already proved by hr enrolment to be
Americqn, to carry on the coasting trade.
But, if the licensebeapermit to carry on-' the coast- of The
power
regulating
ing trade, the respondent denies that these boats commerce exto navlwere engaged in that trade, or that the decree un- tends
gation caried
on by vessels
der consideration has restrained them from pro- exclusively
secuting it. The boats of the appellant were, we
are told, employed in the transportation of passen-

gers ; and this is no part of that commerce which
Congress may regulate.
If, as our whole course of legislation on this subject shows, the power of Congress has been universally understood in America, to comprehend
navigation, it is a very persuasive, if not a conclusive argument, to prove .that the Construction is
correct; and, ifit be correct, no clear distinction is
perceived between the power to regulate vessels
employed in transporting men for hire, and property for hire. The subject is transferred to Congress, and no exception to the grnt can be admitted, which is not proved by the words or the
nature of the thing. A coasting vessel employed
in the transportation of passengers, is as much a
portion of the American marine, as one employed

fnlting
passngers.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
v.
Ogden.

in the transportation of a cargo ; .and no e'eason is
perceived why such vessel shodld be withdrawn
from the regulating power of that government,
which has been thought best fitted for the purpose
generally. The provisions of the law respecting
native seamen, and respecting ownership, are as applicable to vessels carrying men, as to vessels carrying manufactures; and no reason is perceived
why the power over the subject should not be placdd in the same hands. The argument urged at
the bar, rests, on the foundation, that the power of
Congress does not extend to .navigation,. as a
branch of commerce, and can only be applied to
that subject incidentally and occasionally. But if
that foundation be removed, we must show some.
plain, intelligible distinction, support6d by the constitution, or.by reason, for discriminating between
the power of Congress over vessels employed in
navigating the same seas. We can perceive no
such distinction.
If we refer to the constitution, the inference to
be drawn from it.is rather against the distinction.
The section which restrains Congress from prohibiting the migration or ,mportation.of such persons as any 6f the States may think proper to admit, until the year 1808, has always been considered as an exception from the power to regulate
commerce, and certainly seems to class migration
with importation. Migration applies as appropriate-ly to voluntary, as importation does to invo'luntary, arrivals *;and, so far as an exception from
a power proves its existence, this section proves
that the power to regulate commerce applies equal-

OF THE UNITED STATE.
ly to the regulation of vessels employed in transporting men, who pass from place to place voluntarily, and to those who pass involuntarily.
If the power reside in Congress, as a portion
of the general grant to regulate commerce, then
acts applying that power to vessels generally,
must be construed as comprehending all vessels.
If none appear to be excluded by the language of
the act, none can be excluded by construction.
Vessels have always been employed to a greater
or less extent in the transportation of passengers,
and have never been supposed to be, on that account, withdrawn from the control or protection
of Congress. Packets which ply along the coast,
as well as those which make voyages between
Europe and America, consider the transportation
of passengers as an important part of their business. Yet it has never been suspected that the
general laws of navigation did not applr to them.
The duty act, sections 23 and 46, contains provisions respecting passengers, and shows, that
vessels which transport them, have the same.rights,
and must perform the same duties, with other
vessels. They are governed by the general laws
of navigation.
In the progress of things,, this seems to have
grown into a particular employment, and to have
attracted the particular attention of government.
Congress was no longer satisfied vith comprehending vessels engaged specially in this business,
within those provisions which were -intended for
vessels generally; and, on the 2d of ]Aarch, 1819.
passed "an act regulating passenger ships and
VWL. IX.

28

2171
1824.
'-Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

118

"CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. vessels." This wise and humane- law provides
"
for. the safety and comfort of passengers, and for
Gibbons
V..the
communication of every thing concerning
Ogden. them which may iiterest the government, to the
Department of State, but makes no provision concerning the entry of the vessel, or her conduct 'in
the waters of the United States. Thi s, we think,
shows .conclusively the sense of Congress, (if,
indeed, any evidence to that point could be -re-.
quired,) that the pre-existing regulations comprehended passenger ships among others; and, in
prescribing the same -duties, the Legislature must
have considered them as possessing the same

,sights.
If; theft, it were even true, that the'Bellona and
the Stoudinger were employed exclusively in the
ooiiveyance of passengers between New-York and
New-Jersey, it-would not follow tht this occupation did not constitute a part of the casting trade
of the United States, and was not pr6tected by
the license annexed to the answer. But we cannot 'perceive how the occupation of thete vessels
can be drawn into question, in the casebefore the
Court. The liws of New-York, which grant the
exclusive privilege set up by the respondent, take
no notice of the employment of vessels, and reWae oflly to the principle by which they are propalled. , Those. laws do not inquire whether vessels are engaged in transporting men or merchandise, but whether they are moved by steam or
wind. If by the former, the waters of NewYork are- closed. against them, though their cargoes be dutiable goods, wbich the laws of the

U

THE UNITED STATES.

21L9

United States permit them to enter and deliver in 1824.
New-York. If by the latter,
those waters are Gibbons
y
free to them, though they should carry passengers
V.
only. In conformity with the law, is the bill of Ogden.
the plaintiff in tlie State Court. The bill does
not complain that the Bellona and the Stoudinger
carry passengers, but that they are moved by
steam. This is the injury of which he complains,
and is the sole injury against the continuance of
which he asks relief. The bill does not even
allege, specially, that those vessels were employed
in the transportation of passengers, but says, generally, that they were employed " in the transportation of passengers, or otherwise."
The
answer avers, only, that they were employed in
the coasting trade, and insists on the right to carry
on any trade authorized by the license. No testimony is -taken, and the writ of injunction and
decree restrain these licensed vessels, not from carrying passengers, but from being -moved through
the waters of New-York by steam, for any purpose whatever.
The questions, then, whether the conveyance of
passengers be a part of the coasting trade, and
whether a vessel can be protected in that occupation by a coasting license, are not, -andcanniot be.
raised in this case.

The real and sole question The powe,

seems to be, whether a steam machine, in actual ofr egulahbg
tovsuse. deprives a•vssel of the privileges conferred ,eds
sels propelled
or
by ste6a
by a license.
fire, as well as
In considering this question, the first idea which to thosebynavithe
presents itself, is, that the laws of Congress for gated
instruentallty of vind an
.1he regulatioi..of commleice, do not-look to lhe iaif.

t

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

220
1824.
.

b

.V.

Ogde.

principle by which vessels ate moved.- That sub-,
ject is left entirely to individual discretion; and,
in that vast. and complex system of legislative
enactment concerning it, which embraces every
thing that the Legislature thought it necessary to
notice, there is not, we believe, one word respecting the peculiar principle by which vessels are
-propelled through the water, except what may be
found in a single act, granting a particular privilege to steam boats.-. With this exception, every
act, either prescribing duties, o" granting privileges, applies to everyy essel, whether nayjgated
by the instrumentality of wind or fire, of sdils or
machinery. The whole weight of proof, then, is
thrown. upon him who would introduce a distinction to which the words .of.the law give no countenance.
If a real difference could 'be admitted to exist
between vessels carrying passengers.and others, it
has already been observed, that there i6 no fact
in this case which can bring ul that question.
And, if the occupation of steam boats be. a matter of .such gneral notoriety, that the Court. may
be presumed to kn w it,. although not specially
informed by- the record, then we deny that the
transportation of passengers is their exclusive occupation. , It is a matter of..general history, that,
in our western waters, Their principal employment
is the transport0ion of merchandise; and all knbw,
that in the waters ox' the Atlantic they are frequently so employed.
But all inquiry iqto this subject seems to the
Court to be put completely*at rest, by the act. al-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ready mentioned, entitled, " An act for the enrol- 1824
kCbW
ling and licensing of steam boats."
Gibbons
This act authorizes a steam boat employed, or
v.
Ogden.
bay
or
river
a
in
only
employed,'
be
to
intended
of the United States, owned wholly or in part by
an alien, resident within the United States, to be
enrolled and licensed as if the same belonged to
a citizen of the United States.
This act demonstrates the opinion of Congress,
that steam boats may be enrolled and licensed, in
common with vessels using sails. They are, of
course, entitled to the same privileges, and can
no more be restrained from navigating waters, and
entering ports which are free to such vessels,
than if they were wafted on their voyage by the
winds, instead of being propelled by the agency
of fire. The one element may be as legitimately
used as the other, for every commercial purpose
authorized by the laws of the Union; and the act
of a State inhibiting the use of either to any vessel having a license under the act of Congress.
comes, we think, in direct collision with that act.
As this decides the cause, it is unnecessary to
enter in an examination of that part of the constitution which empowers Congress to promote the
progress of science and the useful arts.
The Court is aware that, in stating the train of
reasoning by which we have been conducted to
this result, -much time has been consumed in-the
attempt to demonstrate propositions which may
have been thought axioms. It is felt that the
tediousness inseparable from the endeavour to
prove that vhich is already clear is imputable to

2r.,

CASES IN THE SUPRED19 COURT

1824.

a considerable part of this opinion. But it was
The conclusion to which we have
Gibbons unavoidable.
V. come, depends on. a chain of principles which it
Ogde'. was necessary to preserve unbroken;. and, although some of them were thought nearly selfevident, the magnitude of the question, the weight
of character belonging to those from whose judgment we dissent, and the argument at the bar,
demanded that we should assume nothing.
Powerful and ingenious minds, taking, as postulates, that the powers expressly granted to the
government of the Union, are to be contracted

by construction, into the narrowest possible compass, and that the original powers of the States
are retained, if any possible construction will retain them, may, by a course of well digested, but
refined and metaphysical 'reasoning, founded on.
these premises, explain away the constitution of
our country, and leave it, a magnificent structure,
indeed, to look at, but totally unfit for use. They
may so entangle and perplex the understanding,
as to obscure principles, which were before thought
quite plain, and induce doubts where, if the mind
were to pursue its own course, none would be per,
ceived. In such a case, it is peculiarly necessary
to recur to safe and fundamental principles to
sustain those principles, and, when sustained, to
make them the tests of the arguments to be examined.
Mr. Justice JOHNsoN.

The judgment entered

by the Court in this cause, has my ehtire approbation ; but having adopted my conclusions on views

OF THE UNITED STATES.

22 3

of the subject materially different from those of 1824.
my brethren, I feel it incumbent on me to exhibit Gibbo=
V.
those views. I have, also, another inducement:
in questions of great impoitance and great delica- Ogdei.
cy, I feel my duty .to the public best -discharged,
by an effort to maintain my opinions in my own
way.
In attempts to construe the constitution, I have
never found much benefit resulting from the inquiry, whether the whole, or any part of it, is to be
construed strictly, or literally. The simple, classical, precise, yet comprehensive language, in which
it is couthedi leaves, at most, but very little latitude for construction; and when its intent and
meaning is discovered, nothing remains but to execute the will of those who made it, in the best
manner to effect the purposes intended. The
great and paramount purpose, was to unite this
mass of wealth and power, for the protection of
the humblest individual; his rights, civil and political, his interests and proiperity, are the sole end;
the rest are nothing but the-means . But the principal of those means, one so essential as to approach nearer the characteristics of an end, was the
independence and harmony of thie States, that
they may the better subserve the purposes of cherishing and protecting the respective families of
this great republic.
The strong sympathies, rather than the feeble
government, which bound the States together du*rng a common war, -dissolved on the return of
1peace; and-the very principles which gave rise to
the war of 'the revolution, began to threaten the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
'

Gibbons

v.

O00den

confederacy with anarchy and ruin. The States
had resisted a tax imposed by the parent State,
and now reluctantly submitted to, or altogether rejected, the moderate demands of the confederation.
Every one recollects the painful and threatening
discussions, which arose on the subject of the five
per cent. duty. Some States rejected it altogether; others insisted on collecting it themselves;
scarcely any acquiesced without reservations, which
deprived it altogether of the character of a national measure; and at lngth, some repealed the laws
by which they had signified their acquiescence.
For a century the States had submitted, with
murmurs, to the commercial restrictions imposed
by the parent State; and now, finding themselves
in the. unlimited posseision of those powers
over their own commerce, which they had do long
been deprived of, and so earnestly coveted, that
selfish principle which, well controlled, is so balutary, and which, unrestricted, is so unjust and tyrannical, guided by inexperience and jealousy, began to show itself in iniquitous laws and impolitic
measures, from which grew up a conflict of coinmercial regulations, destructive to the harmony of
the States, and fatal to their commercial interests
.abroad.
T1his wa the immediate cause,, that led to thr
forming of.a convention.
As.early as 1778i the subject had been pressed
upon the" attention of Congresb, by a memorial
from the State of New-Jersey; and in 1781, we
find a resolution presented to that body, byonq of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M

the most ehlighteped men of his dayo affirming, 1824.
that ;'itis indispensably necessary, that the United
V.
States, in Congress assembled, should bevested
Ogden.
recommercial
the
with a right .of superintending
gulations of every-State, that none may take place
that shall be partial or contrary to "the common
interests." The resolution of Virginia,b appointing her commissioners, to meet commissioners from
other States, expresses their.purpose to be, "to
take into consideration the trade of the United
States,. to consider. how far an uniform system in
their commercial regulations, may be necessary to
their common interests and their permanent harmony." - And Mr. Madison's resolution, which led
to that measure, is introduced by a preamble entirely explicit to this point : "Whereas, the relative situation of the United States has been found,
on trial, to require uniformity in their commercial
regulations, as the only effectual policy for obtaining, in the ports of foreign nations, a stipulation
of privileges reciprocal to those enjoyed by the
subjects of such nations in the ports of the United
States, for preventing animosities, which cannot
fail to arise among the several States, from the interference of partial and separate regulations," &c.
"therefore, resolved," &c.
The history of the times will, therefore, sustain
the opinion, that the grant *of power over commerce, if intended to be comniensurate with the
evils existing, and the purpose of remedying those
a Dr. Withspoon.
b January21, 1786.

YOL. IX.

29

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons
bof

v.
Ogden.

evils, could be only commensurqte with the power
the States over th subject. And this opinion
is supported by'a very remarkable evidence of the
general understanding of the whole American people, when the grant was made.
There was not a State in the Union, in which
there did not, at that time, exist a variety of commercial regulations; concerning which it is too
much to suppose, that the whole ground covered
by those regulations was immediately assumed by
actual legislation, under the authority of the Union.
But where was the existing statute on this subject,
that a State attempted to execute? or by What
State was it ever thQoght necessary to rdpeal those
statutes? By common consent, those laws dropped lifeless from their statute books, for want of the
sustaining power, that had been relinquished to
Congress.
And the plain and direct import of the words of
the grant, is corsistent with this general understanding.
The words of the constitution are, "Congress
shall have power to regulate commerce with fo-reign nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian tribes."
It is not material, in my view of the subject, to
inquire whether the article .a or the should be pre.fixed to the word "power." Either, or neither,
will produce the same result: if either, it is clear
that the article the would be the proper one, since
the next preceding grant of power is certainly oxclusive, to wit: " to borrow money on the credit

OF THE UNITED STATES.

22 7

of the United States." But mere verbal criticism 1824.
,.OV-%b
I reject.
Gibbons
V.
the
of
application
on
the
is
founded.
opinion
My
Ogden.
it.
of
subject
the
words of the grant to
The "power to regulate commerce," here meant
to be granted, was that power to regulate commerce which previously existed in the States. But
what was that power? The States were, unquestionably, supreme; and each possessed that power
over commerce, which is acknowledged to reside
in every sovereign State. The definition and limits of that power are to be sought among the
features of international law; and, as it was not
only admitted, but insistedon by both parties, in
argument, that, "unafected by a state of war, by
treaties, or by municipal regulations, all commerce among.independentStates'was legitimate,"
there is no necessity to appeal to the oracles of
the jus commune for the correctness of that doetrine. The law of nations, regarding man as a
social animal, pronounces all commerce legitimate
in a state of peace, until prohibited by positive
law. The power of a sovereign state over commerce, therefore, amounts to nothing more than a
power to limit and restrain it at pleasure. And
since the power to prescribe the limits to its freedom, necessarily implies the'power to determine
what shall remain Nnrestrained, it follows, that the
power must be exclusive; it can reside but in one
potentate; and hence, the grant of this power carries with it the whole subject, leaving nothing for
the State to act upon.
And such has been the practical construction of

2N3

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the act. Were every law on the subject of con
Gibbonssmerce repealed to-morrow, all commerce wou]
be lawful; and, in practice, merchants never ii
V.
Ogden. quire what is permitted, but what is forbidde
1824.

commerce. Of all the endless variety of branch(
of foreign commerce,, now carried on to evei
quarter of the world, I know of no one that
permitted by act of Congress. any otherwise thE
by not being forbidden. N4 statute of the Unit(
States, that I know of, -was ever passed to pern
a commerce, unless in consequence of its havir
been prohibited by some previous statute.
I speak not here of the treaty making powc
for that is not exercised under the grant now und
3onsideration. I confine my observation to la,,
properly so called. And even where freedom
commercial intercourse is made a subject of stip
lation in a treaty, it is generally with a view
the removal of some previous restriction; or t
introduction of some new privilege, most ft
quently, is identified with the return to a state
peace. But another view of the subject lea
directly to the same conclusion. Power to reg
late foreig commerce, is given in the same wore
and in the same breath, as it were, with that oi
the commerce of the States and with the Indi
tribes. But the power to regulate joreign co:
merce is necessarily exclusive. The States t
unknown* to foreign nations; their sovereign
exists only with relation to each other and I
general government. Whatever regulations
reign commerce should be subjected to in the po
of the Union, the general government would

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2-2

held iesponsible for them; and all other regula- 1824.
tions, but those --which Congress had imposed, Gibbons
v.
would be regarded by foreign nations as trespasses
Ogden.
comity.
and
faith
national
of
and violations
But the language which grants the power as to
one description of rommerce, grants it as to all;
and, in fact, if ever the exercise of a right, or
acquidscence in a construiction, could be inferred
from contemporaneous .and continued assent, it is
that of the exclusive effect of this grant.
A right over the subject has never been pretended to in any instance, except as incidental to
the exercise of some other unquestionable power.
The present J an instance of the assertion of
that kind, as incidental to a municipal power;
that of superintending the internal concerns of a
State, and. particularly of extending protection
and patronage,. in the shape of a monopoly, to
genius and enterprise.
The grant to Liviigston and Fulton, interferes
with the freedom of intercourse among the States;
and on this principle its .onstitutionality is contested.
When speaking of the power of Congress over
navigation, I do not regard it as a power'inciden-tal to that of regulating -commerce; I consider it
as the thing itself; inseparable from it as vital
motion is from vital existence.
Commerce, in its simplest signification, means
an exchange of goods; but in the advancement
of society, labour, trafisportation, intelligence,
care1 and various mediums'of exchange, become
commodities, and enter into commerce; the sub-

230
1824.
'-1 Gibbons '
V'.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ject, the vehicle, the agent, and their various opcrations, become the objects of commercial regulation. Ship building, the carrying trade, and
propagation of seamen, are such vital agents of
commercial prosperity, that the nation which could
not legislate over these subjects, would not possess power to regulate commerce.
That such was the understanding of the framers
of the constitution, is conspicuous from provisions
contained in that instrument.
ThE first clause of the 9th section, not only
considers the right of controlling personal ingress
or migration, as implied in the powers previously
vested in Congress over commerce, but acknowledges it as a legitimate subject of revenue. And,
although the leading object of this section undoubtedly was the importation of slaves, yet the
words are obviously calculated to comprise persons of all descriptions, and to recognise in Congress a power to prohibit, where the States permit, although they cannot permit when the States
prohibit. The treaty making power undoubtedly
goes further. So the fifth clause of the same section furnishes an exposition of the sense of the
Convention as to the power of Congress over
navigation : "nor shall vessels bound to or from
one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties
in another."
But, it iAalmostlabouring to prove a self-evident proposition, since the sense of mankind, the
practice of ie world, the contemporaneous assumption, and continued exercise of the power,
and universal aequiescnce, have so clearly esta-

OF THE .UNITED STATES.

231

blished the right of Congress over navigation, and 1824.
the transportation -of
• both,
• men and their goods, as
•
Gibbons
v.
not only incidental to,. but actually of the essence
Ogden.
the
to
As
commerce.
regulate
to
power
of, the
transportation of passengers, and passengers in a
steam boat, I consider it as having been solemnly
recognised by the State of New-Yoik, as a subject
both of commercial regulation and of revenue.
She has imposed a transit duty upon steam boat
passengers arriving at Albany, and unless this be
done in the exercise of her control over personal
intercourse, as incident 'to internal commerce, I
know not on what principle the individual .has
been subjected to this tax. The subsequent imposition upon the steam boat itself, appears to be
but a commutation, and operates as an indirect
instead of a direct tax upon the same subject.
The passenger pays it at last.
It is impossible, with the views which I entertain: of- the principle on which the commercial privileges.of the people of the United States, among
themselves, rests, to concur in the view which
this Court takes of the effect of the coasting license in this cause. I do not regard it as the
foundation of the right set up in behalf of the
appellant. If there was any one object riding
over every other in the adoption of the constitution, it was to keep the commercial intercourse
among the States free from aU invidious and
partial restraints. -And I cannot overcome the
conviction, that if the licensing act was repealed
to-morrow, the rights of the appellant to a reversal of the decision complained of, would be as

232
1824.
Gib"
Gibbons
v
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

strong as it is under this license. One half the
doubts in life arise from thd defects of language,
and if this instrument had been called an exemption instead of a license, it would have given a
better idea of its character. Licensing acts, in
fact, in legislation, are universally restraining
acts; as, for example, acts licensing gaming houses,
retailers of spiritous liquors, &c. The act, in this
instance, is distinctly of that character, and forms
part of an extensive system, the object of which
is to encourage American shipping, and place
them on an equal footing with the shipping of other
nations. Almost every commercial nation reserves
to its. own subjects a monopoly of its coasting
trade; and a countervailing privilege in favour of
American shipping is contemplated, in the whole
legislation of the United States on this subject.
It is not to give the vessel an American character,
that the license is granted ; .that effept has been
correctly attributed to the act of her enrolment.
But it is to confer on her American privileges,
as contradistinguished from I reign; and to preserve the government from fraud by foreigners, in
surreptitiously intruding themselves into the American commercial marine, as well as frauds upon
the revenue in the trade coastwise, that this whole
system is projected. Many duties and formalities
are necessarily imposed upon the American foreign
commerce, which would be burdensome in the active coasting trade of the States, and can be dispensed with. A higher rate of tonnage also is
imposed, and this license entitles the vessels that
take it, to those exemptions, but to nothing.more.

OF -THE UNITED STATES.

A conamon register, equally entitles vessels to
carry on the coasting trade, although it does not
exempt them from the forms of foreign commerce,
or from compliance with the 16th and 17th sections of the enrolling act. And even a foreign
vessel may be. employed coastwise, upon complying with the requisitions of the 24th section. I
consider the license, therefore, as nothing more
than what it purports to be, according to the Ist
section of this act, conferring on the licensed vessel certain privileges in that trade, not conferred
on other vessels; but the abstract right of commercial intercourse, stripped of th ,nrivileges,
is common to all.
Yet there is one view, in which the license may
fe allowed considerable influence in sustaining
the decision of this Court.
It has beeii contended, that the grants of power
to the United States over any subject, do not, necessarily, paralyze the arm of- the States, or deprive them of the cApacity to act dn the same subject. That this can be the effect only of prohibitory provisions in .their own constitutions, or in
that of the general government. The vis vita of
power i still existing in the States, if not extinguished by the constitution of the United States.
That, although as to all those grants of power
which may be called aboriginal, with relation to
the government, brought into 'existence by the
constitution, they, of course, are out of the reach
of State power; yet, as to all concessions ofpowers
which previously existed in the States, it was
otherwise. The practice of our goverhment cerVor,. IX.

so

233
1824.
Gibbons

V.
Ogden.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

2*34

1824.

tainly has been, on many subjects, toP coupy sO

Gibbns
Gibbons

much only of the field opened to them, as they

v.

think the public interests require. Witness the
jutisdiction of the Circuit Courts, limited both as

Ogden.

to cases and as to amount ; and various other instances that might be cited. )But the license furnishes a full answer to this objection; for, although
one grant of power over commerce, should not be
deemed a total relinquishment of power over the
subject, but amounting only, to a power to assume,
-still the power of the States must be at an end, so
far as the United States have, by. their legislative
act, taken the subject under their immediate superintendence. So far as relates to the commerce coastwise, the act under which this license
is granted, contains a full expression of Congress
on this subject. Vessels, from five tons upwards,
carrying on the coasting trade, are made the subject of regulation by that act. And this litense
proves, that this vessel has -complied with that act,
and been regularly ingrafted into one class of the
commercial marine of the country.
It remains, 'to consider the objections. to this
opinion, as presented by the counsel for the appellee. On those which had relation to the particular character of this boat, whether as a steam boat
or a ferry boat, I have only to remark, that in both
those characters, she is expressly recognised as an
object of the provisions which relate to licenses.
The 12th section of the act of 1793, has these
words: "That when the master of any ship or
vessel, ferry boats excepted, shall be changed,"
%e, And the act which exempts licensed steam

OF THE UNITED STATES.

boats from the provisions against alien interests,
shows such boats to be both objects of the licensing act, and objects of that act, when employed
exclusively within our bays and rivers.
But the principal objections to these opinions
arise, 1st. From the unavoidable action of some of
the municipal powers of the States, upon commercial subjects.
2d. From passages in the constitution, which
are supposed to imply a concurrentpower in the

States in regulating commerce.
It is no objection to the existence of distinct,
substantive powers, that, in their application, they
bear upon the same subject. The same bale of
goods, the same cask of provisions, or the same
ship, that may be the subject of commercial regulation, may also be the vehicle of disease. And
the health laws that require them to be stopped
and ventilated, are no more intended as regulations
on commerce, than the laws which permit their
importation, are intended to innoculate the community with disease.. Their different purposes
mark the distinction between the powers brought
into action; and while frankly exercised, theycan
produce no serious collision. As to laws affecting
ferries, turnpike roads, and other subjects of the
same class, so far from meriting the epithet of commercial regulations, they are, in fact, commercial
facilities, for which, by the consent of mankind,
a compensation is paid, upon the same principle
that the whole commercial world submit to pay
light money to the Danes. Inspection laws are
of a more equivocal nature, and it is obvious, that

, - 35

1824
Gibbons

V.
Ogdenm

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Gibbons

v.

Ogden.

the constitution has viewed that subject with much
solicitude. But so far from sustaining an inference in favour of the power of the States over
commerce, I cannot but think that the guarded provisions of the 10th section, on thissubject, furnish
a strong argument against that inference. It was
obvious, that inspection laws must combine municipal with commercial regulations; and, while the
power over the subject is yielded to the States, for
obvious reasons, an absolute control is given over
State legislation on the subject, as far as that legislation may be exercised so as to affect the commerce of the country. The inferences, to bd correctly drawn, from this whole article, appear to me
to be altogether in favour of the exclusive grants
to Congress of power over commerce, and the reverse of that which the appellee contends for.
This section contains the positive restrictions
imposed by the constitution upon State power.
The first clause of it, specifies those powers which
the States are precluded from exercising, even
though the Congress were to permit them. The
second, those which the States may exercise with
the consent of Congress. And here the sedulous
attention to the subject of State exclusion- from
commercial power, is strongly marked. Not antisfied with the express grant to the United States
of the power over commerce, this clause negatives
the exercise of that power to the States, as to the
only two objects which could ever tempt them. to
assume the exercise of that power,-to wit, the collection of a revenue from imposts and duties on
imports and exports; or from a tonnage duty. As

OF THE UNITED STATES.

237

to imposts on imports or exports, such a revenue 1824.
might have been aimed at directly, by express le- Gibbons
gislation, or indirectly, in the form of inspection
V.
Ogden.
against
guard
to
necessary
became
it
and
laws;
both. Hence, first, the consent of Congress to such
imposts or duties, is made necessary; and as to
inspection laws, it is limited to the minimum of
expenses. Then, the money so raised shall be
paid into the treasury of the United States, or may
be sued for- since it is declared to be for their use.
And lastly, all such laws may be modified, or repealed, by an act of Congress. It is impossible
for a right to be more guarded. As to a tonnage
duty, that could be recovered in but one way ; and
a sum so raised, being obviously necessary for the
execution of health laws, and other unavoidable
port expenses, it was intended that it should go
into the State treasuries; and nothing more was
required, therefore, than the consent of Congress.
But this whole clause, as to these two subjects,
appears to have been introduced ez abhndanti
cautela, to remove every temptation to an attempt
to-interfere with the powers of Congress over commerce, and to show how far Congress might consent to permit the States to exercise that power.
Beyond those limits, even by the consent of Congress, tiey could not exercise it. And thus, we
have the whole effect of the clause. The infertncewhicb counsel would deduce from it, is neither
necessary nor consistent with the general purpose
of the clause.
* But instances have been insisted on, with much
confidence; in argument, in which, by municipal

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Ggoes
Gibbons

v.
Ogden.

laws, particular regulations respecting their carhave been imposed upon shipping in the ports
of the United States; and one, in which forfeituro
was made the penalty of disobedience.
Until such laws have been tested by exceptions
to their constitutionality, the argument certainly
wants much of the force attributed to it ; but admitting their constitutionality, they present only
the familiar case of punishment inflicted by both
governments upon the same individual. lie who
robs the mail, may also steal the horse that carries
it, and would, unquestionably, be subject to punishment, at the same time, under the laws of the
State in which the crime is committed, and under
those of the United States. And these punishments may interfere, and one render it impossible
to inflict the other, and yet the two governments
would be acting under powers that have no claim
to identity.
It would be in vain to deny the possibility of a
clashing and collision between the measures of
the two governments. The line cannot be drawn
with sufficient distinctness between the municipal
powers of the one, and the commercial powers of
the other. In some points they meet and blend
so as scarcely to admit of separation. Hitherto
the only remedy has been applied which the case
admits of; that of a frank and candid co-operation
for the general good. Witness the laws of Congress requiringrits officers to respect the inspection laws of the States, and to aid in enforcing
their health laws; that which surrenders to the
States the superintendence. of pilotage, and the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

many laws passed to permit a tonnage duty to be 1824.
levied for the'use of their ports. Other instances Gibbons
could be cited, abundantly. to prove that collision
v.
must be sought to be produced; and when it does Ogden.
arise, the question must be decided how far the
powers of Congress are adequate to put it down.
Wherever the powers of the respective governments are frankly exercised, with a distinct view
to the ends of such powers, they may act upon
the same object, or use the same means, and yet
the powers be kept perfectly distinct. A resort
to the same means, therefore, is no argument to
prove the identity of their respective powers.
I.have not touched upon the right of the States
to grant patents for inventions or improvements,
generally, because it does not necessarily arise in
this cause.. It is enough for all the purposes of
this decision, if they cannot exercise it so as to
restrain a free intercourse among the States.
DECREE. This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the Court for the
Trial of Impeachments and Correction of Errors
of the State of New-York, and was argued by
counsel. On ,consideration whereof, this Court
is of opinion, that the several licenses to the steam
boats the Stoudinger and the Bellona, to carry
on the coasting trade, which are set up by the appellant, Thomas Gibbons, in his answer to the
bill ofthe respondent, Aaron Ogden, filed in the
Court of Chancery for the State of New-York,
which were granted under an act of Congress;
passed in pursuance of the constitution of the

CASES IN THE SUPRENIP COUR T

1824.

United States; gave full authority to those ves-

bo
Gibbous

sels to navigate the waters of the United States,'
by steam or otherwise, for the purpose of carrying on the coasting trade, any law of the State

V.

Ogden.

of New-York to the contrary notwithstanding;
and that so much of the several laws of the
State of New-York, as prohibits vessels, licensed according to the laws of the United Stites,
from navigating the waters of the Stateof NewYork, by means of fire or steam, is repugnant to
the said constitution, and void. This Court is,
therefore, of opinion, that the decree of the Court
of New-York for the Trial of Impeachments and
the Correction of Errors, affirming the decree of
the Chancellor of that State, which perpetually
enjoins the said Thomas Gibbons, the appellant,
from navigating the waters of the State of NowYork with the steam boats the Stoudinger and the
Bellona, by steam or fire, is erroneous, and ought
to be reversed, and. the same is hereby reversed

and annulled. and this Court doth further DIRECT,
ORDER,' and DECREE, that the bill of the said Aaron
Ogden be dismissed, and the same is hereby dismissed accordingly.

