OF THE UNITED STATES.

1824.
The
Margarot
[INSTARc

COURT. Snip REGisTaY ACT.]

-The MARGART, alias CARLOS FERNANDO,
HALEY, Claimant.
A transfer of a registered vessel of the United States, to a foreign
subject, in a foreign pbrt, f6r the purpose of evading the revenue
laws of the foreign country, with an understanding that it is to be
afterwards reconveyed to the former owner, works a forfeiture of
the vessel, under the 16th section of the Ship Registry Act of the
31st of December, 179-2, c. 1., unless the transfer is made known
in the manner piescribed by the 7th section of the act.
The statute does not require a beneficial or bona fTd sale; but a
transmutation of ownership, "by way of trust, confidence; or
otherwise," is sufficient.
Qz e, Whether, in such a case, a reconveyance would be decreed
by a Court of justice in this country ?
The proviso in the 16th section of the Ship Registry Act, being by
way of exception from the enacting clause, need not be taken
notice of in a libel brought to enforce the forfeiture. It is matter
of defence to be set up by the party in his claim.
The proviso applies only to the case of a part owner, and not to a
sole owner of the ship.
The trial, in such a case, ii to be by the Court, and not by a jury, in
seizures on waters navigable from the sea by vessels of ten tons
burthen and upwards.
A registered vessel, which" contiiues to use its register, after a transfer
under the-above circumstances, is liable to forfeiture under the 27th
section'of the act, as using a register without being actually entitled
to the benefit thereof.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This cause was argued by the Attorney-Gene- Feb. 11th.
'al, for the appellants, and by Mr. D. B. Ogden..
for the respondent and claimant.

CASES IN THE SUPREME- COURT

1824.

Mr. lustice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The
M3Iargaret,
This is a case of seizure, for an asserted forfeiFeb. it,.
ture under the ship registry act, of the 31st of December, 1792, c. 1._ The libel contains five counts,
the four first 6f which are founded on the 16th
section, and the last on the 27th section of the act.
The former declares, " that if any ship or vessel
heretofore registered, or which shall be hereafter
registered, as a ship or vessel of the United States;
shall be sold or transferred, in whole or iii part,
by way of trust, confidence, or otherwise, to a subject orcitizen of any foreign prince or state, and
such transfer shall not ;e made known, in manner
hereinbefore directed, uch ship or vessel, together
with her tackle, appare), and furniture, shall be
forfeited." The manner of making known the
transfer here referred to, is 'found prescribed in
the 7th section of the act; and, so far as respects
the present case, would have been a delivery of the
certificate of registry by the master of the vessel
to the collector of the district, within eight days
after his arrival in the district, from the foreign
port where the transfer was made.
It appears, from the evidence, that the claimant
was the sole ow'ner and master of the schooner
under seizure. She was duly registered at the
port of Baltimore ; and on the 4th day of May,
she was duly transferred at Havana, by procuration, to a Spanish subject domiciled in Cuba, and
received the proper documents eviddnring her
Spanish character. The schooner was, at this
time, lying at Matanzas. and soon afterwards sail-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ed on.the homeward voyage, under her American 1824.
papers, still having the Spanish
documents on
•
The
board, in the custody. of a person who assumed Muargt.
!he character of a passenger, but who was, in fact,
the Spanish .master, and kept them concealed.
The name of the vessel had been blacked out of
the stern, vWhich was the- first circumstance that
excited suspicion of her character. On further inspection, it was found, that her name, "Margaret,
of Baltimore," was inserted on a moveable sheet
of copper; and upon a close search, directed by
the captain of the revenue cutter', the Spanish documents were discovered, and delivered up to the
collector of Baltimore.
The fact of the transfer of the schooner to a
Spanish subject, and the assumption of the Spanish character, are not denied; and the defence
is put upon this point, that it Was a mere colourable transfer, for the purpose of evading the Spanish revenue laws, the real American ownership
not having been bonafide changed. There is certainly nothing inthis record, that shows that the
intention might nt also have been to evade the
American revenue laws.; for the obvious purpose
of keeping the Spanish master and papers on board,
was to assume the American character in our ports,
and to re.assume the Spanish character on the
next voyage, so that the parties might obtain the
fullest benefit of the double papers. But, assuming that the sole object of the transfer was a fraud
upon'the laws of Spain, it was, nevertheless, a
transfer binding between the parties, and changing the legal ownership. It was completely, with-

424
1824.
The
Margaret.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in the words of the law, a transfer, "by way of
trust and confidence," to a foreign subject; the
trust and confidence being, that the vessel should
be reconveyed to the American owner when the
special purposes of the transfer were entirely
consummated. That a reconveyance would be
decreed in an American Court of justice, upon
such a transaction with a foreign subject, in a foreign port, in. violation of the municipal laws of
his country, is a point which we are by no means
disposed to admit. It is sufficient for us, however,
that the case is brought within the very terms of
the act of Congress, which does not require a beneficial or bonafide sale, but a transmutation of
ownership, " byway of trust, confidence, or otherwise." But it is said, that the case is not within
the policy of the act. What the policy of the act
is, can be known only by its provisions ; and every
section of it betrays a strong solicitude on the part
of the Legislature to trace and inspect every change
of ownership; and, for this purpose, to require a
public avowal of it, and an alteration of the ship's
documents, so as to exhibit, at all times, the names
of all persons who are the legal owners. The
policy evinced by this course of legislation, is the
encouragement of American navigation and American ship building, to the exclusion of foreign navigation and foreign ownership, and securing to
American registered ships a preference, in all our
revenue transactions, over all vessels which were
not strictly entitled to the character. The Legislature foresaw that it would be impossible for the
officers of government to ascertain the secret in-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tentions of parties, or the object of osteisible 1824.
transfers of ownership. Whether such transfers
were bonza fide, or colourable, for meritorious or Mmvm::.
illegal, purposes, were matters of private confidence, and could rarely be ascertained by competent and disinterested proof. To admit secret
transfers of ownership to any persons, and especially to foreigners, and alloV, at the same time,
to the ships the full benefit of the American character, would be hazarding the main objects of
the act; it would invite all sorts of contrivances
to evade the laws, and disable the government
from possessing means to detect frauds. The correct course of legislation was,. therefore, obvious.
It was to lay down a strict and plain rule, requiring all transfers to be made known, from time
to time, as they occurred; and a surrender of the
American documents, when the legal ownership
passed to a foreigner, whatever might be the secret trusts with which it was accompanied. The
words of the section now under consirleratioii,
are direct to this purpose; and so far from contravening, they support, in the fullest manner,
the general policy of the act. They are not, then,
to be construed in a more limited sense than their
obvious purport indicates.
But it is agreed that the proviso of this section
shows, that the forfeiture inflicted by the enacting
clause is not absolute, and that the trial ougl]t not
to have been by the Court, as a cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, but by a jury, as
upon an exchequer information, since a verdict
alone can fix the forfeiture. The words of the
VOL. IX.

54

CASES iN TH1E SUPREME COURT

1824.
The

proviso are, " Provided, that if such ship or vessel shall b6 owned in part only, and it shall ap-

Marga.

pear to the jury, before whom the trial for such

forfeiture shall be had, that any other owner of
such ship or vessel, being a citizen of the United
States, was wholly ignorant of the sale or transfer to, or ownership of, such foreign subject or
citizen, the share or interest of such citizen of
the United States shall not be subject to forfeiture;
and the residue only shall be forfeited." Now, in
the first place, this being a mere proviso, by way of
exception from the enacting clause, it constitutes
properly matter of defence, and need not be taken
notice of in a libel, brought to enforce the forfeiture. The party who seeks the benefit of it, must,
in his claim, insist upon it, so as to bring it as
matter cognizable in the issue 'to the jury. In the
next place, the very terms of the proviso apply
only to the case of apart owner, and not to a sole
owner, of the ship. The case put is, where the
ship "shall be owned, in part only," by a person
ignorant of the transfer, such part shall not be
subject to forfeiture. In the case before the Court,
the claim is by Haley, as :sole owner of the schooner, and all her American documents establish him
as sole owner. He does not assert an ignorance
of the transfer, nor claim in any way the benefit of
the proviso. So that, whatever may be the true
construction of the proviso, in other respects, it is
plain, that it is inapplicable to his predicament,
and might, on this account, be dismissed from the
consideration of the Court.
But the other suggestion, in respect to jurisdic-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

427

tion, is entitled to scrupulous attention. The 29th 1824.
section of this act declares, that all penalties and T
forfeiture incurred for 'offences . against it, "shall Mrgar'.
and may be sued for, prosecuted, and recovered,
in such Courts, and be disposed of in such manner, as any penalties and forfeitures, which maybe
incurred for offences against an act entitled, 'an
act to provide more effectually for the collection of
the duties imposed by law on goods, wares and
merchandise imported into the United States, and
on the tonnage of vessels,' may be legally sued
for, prosecuted, recovered and disposed of." The
act here referred to, is the revenue act of the 4th
of August, 1790, ch. 35. which, in the 67th section,
provides for the prosecution for penalties, and libelling for forfeitures, in the same general terms,
which are employed in the revenue act of the 2d
of March, 1799, ch. 128. on the same subjec.
Now, the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20. in express
terms, and ds has been repeatedly adjudged, upon
the most solemn consideration, by this Court,
rightfully includes all seizures-for forfeitures made
under laws of impost, navigation, and trade, on
waters navigable from the sea, by vessels of ten
tons burthen and upwards, as causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, which are to be tried by
the Court, and not by ajury. And seizures made
under the revenue act of the 4th of August, 1790,
ch. 35. as well as under that of 1799, ch. 128.
have been uniformly tried in this manner. Where
the seizures have been made on land, or on waters
not so navigable, the trial has been by jury. It is
true, that the first case in which the question as to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
The
MargaW.

the admiralty jurisdiction under the judiciary act
of 1789 came under consideration, did not arise
until:after the enactment of the ship registry act,'
and, therefore, it may have escaped the attention
of Congress, that such was the legal construction.
But such a supposition is not lightly to be indulged, not only from the direct and ubequivocal
language of the judiciary act of 179, but also from
the reference in the registry act to the revenue act
of 1790, for the mode of suing-for penalties and
forfeitures. The latter act (s. 67.) takes an express distinction between penalties and forfeitures,
confining the trial, of any fact put in issue in suits
for penalties, to the judicial district in which such
penalties shall accrue, and then providing, in general terms, for libels, to enforce forfeitures, to be
brought "in the proper, Court having cognizance
thereof ; thus pointing.to the judiciary act, for the
tribunal which is to exercise jurisdiction, and for
the mode in which it is to be exercised. It certainly cannot be admitted, that the obscurity of a
proviso like the present ought to repeal, by implication, the deliberate act of the Legislature, in
settling the general jurisdiction of its Courts, and
placing, with so much solicitude, causes of this
.nature on the admiralty side of the Courts. The
proviso is still applicable, in its terms, to all cases
of eizures, on land and on waters, where the trial
isto be lay a jury; and, perhaps, taking the whole
language, it ought to be construed to include within its equity, cases, where the trial is by the Court,
a La Vengeance 7 3 DalIL 297.

I OF ThE UNITED ST TTES.

M£

and the forfeiture is not intended to be inflicted by 1824.
the act. The probability "s, that the words "court
The
or," were omitted before the word "jury," by mis- Marg-et.
take, in the draft of the act. But this on'nssion, if
it is to have any effect, is not to oust the jurisdiction of the Court, but to-take from the party a benefit, which is not within the words of the proviso.
It is the opinion of the. Court, that the present seizure, which is averred in the libel to have been
made upon waters navigable from the sea by vessels often tons burthen and upwards, is a cause of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and was
rightfully tried by the District Court, without the
"interVention of a jury.a *This objection cannot,
therefore, avail the claimant.
The view that has already been taken of the
cause upon the merits, as applicable to the four
first counts in the libel, render it unnecessary to go
into a particular examination of the fifth count.
That count is founded, as has been already stated,
upon the 27th section of the act, which declares,
"that if any certificate of registry, or record, shall
be fraudulently or knowingly used for any ship"or
vessel, not then a~tually entitled to the benefit
thereof, according to the true intenit of- this act,
such ship or vessel shall be forfeited to the United
States, with her tackle, apparel and furniture."
We think, that there are facts enough in the proofs
before us, to establish the forfeiture also.under
this clause. By the transfer at Havana, the schooner lost her American character, and the title to
a Vide ante, vol. 8. p. 391.

The Sarah, and Note a. p. 390.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

use her certificate of registry for the return voy-

_200 Chestsof age.
Tea.

She, however, did use it, and sailed under

its avowed- protection, "not being entitled to the
benefit ther of, according to the intent of the act."
The judgment of the District Court is reversed,
and a decree of condemnation awarded against
the schooner and her appurtenances.

[IzNSTArNCE COUiAr.J

Two HUNDRED

CHESTS 'OF TEA, SMITH,

Claimant.

In a libel of information, under the 67th section of the collection act
of 1796, c. 128. against goods, on account of their differing in description from the contents of the entry, it is not necessary that it
should allege an intention to defraud the revenue.
A question of fact, as to the rate of duties payable upon certain teas,
imported, as bohea. That terni is used in the duty act in its
known commercial sense; and fhe bohea tea of commerce is not
usually a distinct and simple substance, but is a compound, made
up in China, of various kinds of the lowest priced blach teas.
But, by the duty acts, it is liable to the same specific duty, without
regard to the difference of quality and price.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Massachusetts.
This was a libel of information, filed in the District Court of Massachusetts, against two hundred
chests of tea, alleging that, on the 8th of September, 1819, the collector of the customs for the port
of Boston seized at that port the said chests of

