OF .THE UNITED STATES.

be reviewed in a Court of equity, without the suggestion of some
• equitable circumstance, of which
the party could not avail himself at law.

537
1"824.
INollan

V.

Torranm

Decree affirmed, with costs.

[PRACTICF.

MOLLAN

JURISDICTION.J

and others v. TonRANCE.

Ain cndersee of a promissory notp, ,.w'ho reiides in a-diffeient State,

may sue, in the Circuit Court, hiiiimmediate endorser, residing in
the State in ihich the suit is brought, although that endorser be a
resident of the same State, with the maker of the note.f
Ifht where the suit is brought ugniqst a remdte endorser, and the plaintiff, ih his declaration, tracei his title through an intermediate endorskr. he must show that this intermediate endorser could have
sustained his action in the Circuit Court.
A plea'to be jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must show tha !he
parties-were citizens of the same State, at the time the action was
brought, and not merely at the time of the plea pleaded. The
jurisdiction depends upon the, state of things at the time of the
action brought; and after it fs once vested, it cannot be ousted by a
subsequent change of residence of eitber of the pirties.

ERROR to the District Court of Mississippi.
This cause was argued by Mr. Jones,a for
a He cited Young v. Bryan, 6 Wheat. Rep. 146. Dugan v.
U. S., 3 Wheat. Rep. 180. Cdtty. Bills, 149. 370.
VoL. YX

69

mara6.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

M182.the plaintiffs, and by Mr. Radin,' for the deMollan fendant.
v.,

,Torrance.

Ad

Mr.' Chief Justice

MAn5HALL

ddlivered the

opinion of theCourt.

The declaration in this cause contains two
counts. The first is against the defendant, Torrance, as endorser of a promissory note, made by
Spencer & Dunn, payable to Sylvester Dunn,
and endorsed by him to the defendant, Torrance,
by whom it was. endorsed to H. J. Lowrie, and by
him to the plaintiff. The 'Other count is, fot
money bad' and :-ceived by the defendant to the
plaintiffs' usei.
The declaration states the plaintiffs to be citi,zeim of New-Yorkj.and the defendant to be a
"ditizen of Missaip1pi, but is silent respecting the
citizenship or residence of Lowrio, the immediate
endorser of Torrance, through whom the plaintitfs trace their title to the money for which; the
suit is instituted.
The case of Yong v. Orym, (6 Mhew. Re.
146.) has decided, that an endorsee wbo reaides
in a different State, may sue his immediate endorser, residing in the State in which the -suit is
brought, although that endorser be 4 rosident of
the same -State with the maker of tho note; but
in this case the suit is'brought againt, a remote
eldorser, and the plaintifb, in their declaration,
trace their title through an intermediate enderser,
b He cfted Tamer v.jBank of N. Anie.. 4 Dall S. Montalet

.V.Murray, 4 Crancl, 4e.

oF THE UNITED STATES.

539

without showing that this intermediate endorser 1824.
could have sustained his action against the dev.
fendant in the Courts of 'the United States. The
case of Turner v. The Bank of North America, Torrinc.
(4 Dallas, 8.) has decided, that this count doei
not give the Court jurisdiction. But the count
for money had and received to the use of the
plaintiffs, being free from objection, it becomes
necessary to look farther into the case,
The defendant has filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the Court, in which" he states, that the
promises laid in the declaration 'were made to H.
J. Lowrie, and not to the .plaintiffs, and that the
said H. J. Lowrie and the defendant, are both
citizens of the State of Mississippi. The plaintiffs demurreT -to thia plea, and the defendant
joined in demurrer. On argument, the demurrer
was overruled, the 'plea sustaihed, and judgment
rendered for the defend.ant.
The case is now before the Court on a writ of
error.
The plaintiffs contend that the plea is defective,
because it avers that the said H. J. Lowrie and
the defendant are both citizens of the State of
Mississippi, at the time of the plea ,pleaded, not
that they were citizens of the'said State at the
time the action was brought.
It is quite clear, that the jurisdiction of the
Court depends upon the state of things at the time
of the'action brought, and* tlt after vesting, it
cannot be ousted by subsequent events. Since,
then, one of the counts shows jurisdiction, and
the plea does not contain sufficient matter to deny

CASSES IN TIE SUPREhIlE.'COURT

1824.
Mollan

v.

thaq jurisdiction, we think that judgmoet ought
not tjo have been rendered on the demurrer in fayour of the defendant.

It must, therefore, be

Torrance. reversed, and the cause remanded to the Court for
the District of Mississippi," where the patties may
amend their pleadings, which are very defective.,
Judgment reversed.
This cause came on to be hoard on
the transcript of the record of the District Court of
the United States for the District of Mississippi, and
was..augtd by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Gburt is of opinion. that there is error in
the judgment of the said District Court, in- overruling the demurrer of the'plaintiffs'to the plea of
the defendant, and in giving. judgment for the do'fendabt ;.wherefore it is considered by this Court,
that th6 said judgment be reversed and annulled,
and it is hereby reversed and annulled accordiogly;
and the said cause is remanded.to the said District
eourt, with liberty to the parties to amend their
pleadings, and that further proceedings may be
had theroin, qccording to law.
JL'DdME.T.

