OF Tl1HE UNITED STATES.

1824.
"Walker

[LOCAL LA&w.1

V.
Turner.

Den ex dem,

WALKER

v. TU RNER.

-By

the statute of limitations of Tennessee, of 1797, a posressibn of
seven years is a protection, only when held under a grant, or under
mesn6 conveyances which connect it uith a grant.
4.Sheriff'sdeed, which is void for want of jurisdiction in the Court
under whosejudgmebt the sale took place, is not such a conveyance as that apossession under ii will be protected bv the statute
,ff limitations.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion Afarci1th.

of tle Court.
This was an ejectlnent brotgbt in May, 1818,
in the Circuit Court for the Disi rict of Teziifessee,
by the plaintiff- in ereor, to recover possession of
a lot of ground in the -town of Nashville, distinguished in the plan uf the town, as tot No. 85.
Upon the trial of the cause, the plaintiff gave in
evidence, a (ieed for tr' lot in controversy, from
the coma issioners 6flhe toWn of Nashville to the

lessor of the plaintiff, bearing date'the 6th of" August, 1790, and then proved the defiendant to be in
possession of the same at the time the suit was
brought.
The defendant then gave in evidence a record

of the Coufity Court. of-Davidson, in the State of
Tennessee, by which it appears, that upon the
complaint of Roger B. Sappington, administrator of-Mark B.-Sappiigton, deceased, to a Jusice' of the Peace-for-the said county; supported
by his'bath,' that -George Widker (the. lessor of

542
1824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the plaintiff) was justly indebted to him, as ad-Walker ministrator aforesaid, as appears by the books, of
v.
the said Mark, to the amount of 20 dollars and
Tiwme'. 25 cents, and that the said Walker was an inhabitant of another government, s6 that the ordinary process of law could not be served upon him,
anattachment, bearing date the 4th of April,
1804, was awarded by the magistrate against the
estate of the said Walker, which the officer was,
by the said process,- directed to. secure, so as 'to
be liable to further proceedings to be had before
the. said Justice, or some other Justice for the
said county. The return upon the attachment
was, that no personal property was to be found;
and on the 26th of April, 1804, judgment was
rendered by the magistrate in favour of th plaintiff for 20 dollars and 25 cents, and costs,
These proceedings being carried into the Coun.ty Court of Davidson, the cause was there docketted, and the defendant having appeared by attorney, a stay of six months, under tlie'law, was
entered on the docket. At. the sessions of the
Court, in October, 1804, the defendaut entered
special bail, and reprieved the property attached.
The record- then exibits the following entry, viz.
"On vhich -attar"ment the said administrpitor obtained judgment before J. A.. Parker, [who issued
Ihe -attachment,] a Justice of the Peace$ on the
26th of April, 1804;'which proceedings being
brought up. to Dayidson County Court, April ses
sions, 1804, and a stay of further proceedings ordered. to the present sessions, (October, 1804,.
at whichsessions bail was entered, in 'order to

OF THE UNITED STAT9S.

54S

replevy the property- attached; after which, and 1824.
during the same sessions, the said Sappington
moved the Court for an order to sell the property
v;
attached, whereupon the Court -irected the.Clerk '"*
to issue orders of sale to the Sheriff, to sell the
property attached." The record proceeds to state,
that, in pursuance of this judgment, orders of sale
issued, returnable to the January sessions of 1805,
but which did not appear to have been returned.
The defendant then gave in evidence a deed,
dated the 22d of July, 1809, from the Sheriff of
Davidson county to Roger B. Sappington, for the
lot in.
question, purchased by him at public auction,
under process of the Court of said county, for
non-payment of the taxes due upon the said lot.
The 'defendant also gave in evidence a deed from
the. said Roger B. Sappington to Lemuel P. Turner, deceased, to whom the defendant was proved
to be heir. and devisee. He further proved, that
shortly after the deed by the Sheriff to Roger B.
Sappington, he (the grantee) exercised acts of
ownership on the lot in question, by cutting trees,
quarrying stones, &c. which he continued to do
until he "sold the lot to Turner, but that he never
resided on the lot, or had any continued possession thereof, except as above stated.
The next evidence given by the defendant, was
a deed, dated the " day of'January, 18036, from
the Sheriff of Davidson county to Roger B. Sappington, which, after reciting all.the proceedings
before mentioned, before the magistrate of Davidson county, and the Court of thiat county; in the
suit of Sappington against Walker. the writ of

544

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. vend. expo. to sell the said lot, issued by the said
, Walk~r County Court, and the purchase of the same by
V. the said Sappington, as the highest bidder, at
Turer. public auction, conveys the said lot to him.
The defendant then proved, that in the year
1811 or 1812, Lemuel P. Turner commenced
building a stone fence on this lot, which he was
one or two years engaged in completing; that lie
commenced building a house on the lot, which ho
incessantly persevered in till it.-was finished, after
which he removed into it, in 1812 or 1813.
Upon the above evidence, set forth in a bill of
exceptions to the opinion of the Court, the charge
to the jury was, that the deed from the Sheriff of
Davidson county to R. B. Sappington, under the
judgment of Sappington's administrator against
Walkdr, was sufficient, if the jury believed the
facts to be as above stated, to vest the title of
said Walker to :said lot in Sappington the purchaser -at the 'exmeution sale; that the tribunal
that adjudicated, and from whom tne' execution
issued,. had jurisdiction of the subject. matter,
and that the parties, too, were in Court; that
the deeds-aforesaid were tf suob a colour .or appearance of title as, connected with 'seven years
peaceable and Continued pogssession, by the persons 6laimitig under them, andthe .giant to Walker, would p-otpct thq pos-se.ision: un'der: the statute of- limitations. .The fact- as to possession
was (eft to the jury.. The Judge furthdr stated,
that a p.rty, to .be protected by the statute, -must
have an adveise continued possessidn of.;the land
in dispute, either by actually residing on"it, or by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

545

having it enclosed with a stone fence, and that a 1824.
possession, by such enclosing or fence, would be •Walker
V.
sufficient, without an actual residence on the land.
This charge presents, ior the consideration of Tumor.
the Court,"the following questions:
1. Whether the deed from the Sheriff of Davidson county to Sappington, did vest in the latter
a title to the land in question?
2. Whether, under the circumstances stated in
the bill of exceptions, the possession of the defendant was protested by the statute ef limitations
of the State of Tcnnessee?
3. Whether the Court below was right in the
statement made to the jury, as to what constitutes
a possession to be protected by the act of limitations :
1. Whether the -Sheriff's deed conveyed to
Sappingto-f a title to the land in controversy, depends upon the -question, vhether the sale was
made under the judgment of a tribunal having
jurisdiction of the cause in which it was rendered.
The judgiment was rendered by a Justice of the
Peace, upon an attachment issued by him against
a non-resident, and returnable before himself; and
the order for selling the property attached, was
made by the County Court. It does not, however,
appear by the return made upon the attachment,
that the lot in dispute, or any other property of
Walker, was attached; nor does it even appear,
otherwise -than by a recital in the deed from the
Sheriff to Sappington, that any process issued
from the County Court, which authorized the
Sheriff to sell this lot. Evidence was given by
VoL. IX

69

546

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Walker

v.
Turner.

the Clerk, that an execution issued, corresponding with ihe order of the Court, but that the execution could not be found. If the execution corresponded with the order of the Court, then it
authorized the sale of the property attached; and
as the return of the constable does not state that
any property was attached, it is difficult to perceive by what authority the lot in dispute was sold
to Sappington. As to the recital in the deed from
the Sheriff to Sappington, that the writ of vendi
tioni exponas, under which the sale was made,
authorized the sale of this lot, it is inadmissible
as evidence of that fact against the plaintiff, who
was neither a party nor privy to the deed.
Bat passing by this objection to the validity ot
the sale, the Court will inquire, whether the same
was sanctioned by the judgment of a tribunal ha.,Ong competent jurisdiction of the case in which it
was rendered. It is, in the first place, by no means
to be admitted, that at the time these proceedings
were instituted, a Justice of the Peace was authorized, by the laws of Tennessee, to issue an attachm-ent against the estate of a non-residentdebtor, returnable before himself, and determinable
by him. By the 19th, 20th, and 21st sections of
the act of 1794, a Justice of the Peace is empowered to issue an attachment. against the estate of
a debtor who has removed, or is removing himself privately out of the county, or who so absconds and conceals .himself, that the ordinary
process of law cannot be served upon him ; and
also, against the estate of a non-resident ; but in
all these cases, the attachment is to be returned

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to the Court where the suit is cognizable, and is 1824.
attachment may %'Vj1W"'
to be there adjudicated. . This
Walker
v.
the
of
be levied on the lands, goods, and chattels
Super.
mathe
act,
this
of
debtor. By the 56th section
gistrate is authorized, in cases where by the said
act he has jurisdiction,tQ issue an attachment
aga.inst the estate of an absconding or abseqt debtor; and the proceedings thereon, before him, are
to be in a summary Nyay, as.on a warrant. The
Court does not understand that this section extends to persons who are citizens and residents
without the limits of Tennessee. It may well be
doubted, then, whether the proceedings before the
Justice were not, on this ground, coram.nonjudice.
But without giving a positive decision upon that
point, the Court is of opinion, that*the Justice had
not jurisdiction of the subject matter, upon which
his judgment was rendered. By the 52d section
of the above act, jurisdiction isgiven to any Justice of the Peace, in cases of ddbts and demands
amounting to twenty dollars and undei-, where the
balance is due on any specialty, note, or agreement, for money or specific articles, or for goods,
wares and merchandise, sold and delivered, or work
and labour done; in which cases he is empowered
to renderjudgment, and to award execution against
the goods and chattels, or the body of the debtor.
It is admitted by the counsel, that a subsequent law
raised the jurisdiction of the Justice beyond the
sum for which this judgment was rendered. By
the act of 1786, which we understand is still in
force in Tennessee, it is provided, that when an

548

CASES IN TIMF SULRE3II1

COb

I

execution is in the hands of a constable, in conse'
quence of a judgment of a Justice of the Peace,
Walker
and there shall be no personal property whereon
v.
Turner, to levy it, in such case he shall levy it on the real
1824.

estate of the defendant, and make return thereof
to the next County Court, that the Court may order the Sheriff to sell the said real estate, or enough
thereof, according to law. Whether it-was under
this act, that the proceedings before the magistrate found their way into the County Court, it is
impossiblefor this Court to decide. It does not
seem to us, that the case is one which yas provided for by that act, since it does not appear that
any execution was issued by the magistrate, upon
his own judgment; .or if any did issue, that it was
levied on the real estate of the debtor, and returned to the County Court. Be all this as it may, the
ground of the jurisdiction of the magistrate does
not appear upon the face of the proceedings before
him ; without which, the Court must consider them
as corar non j2dice. The cases of which lie had
cognizance, are particularly enumerated in the
52d section, before recited; and ii appears, by the
record given in evidence, that the demand sworn
to by Sappington, was for 20 dollars and 25' cents,
as appeared by the books of his intestate. But this
was not the assertion of a cause of action, for "a
balance due on any specialty, note or agreement,
for money or specific articles, or for goods, wares
and merchandise sold and delivered, or for work
and labour done." It might have been for rent
due, for money advanced, money received to the
use of the plaintiff; and even for money claimed

OF THE UNITED STATES.

549

by the plaintiff as due ex debito, and charged in 1824.
the books of the intestate'. It is obvious, that the
v.
magistrate had no authority to take cognizance of
be.stated;
'might
which
others,
of
these cases, and
and since his jurisdiction was strictly special and
limiteat, it is essential to the validity of his judgment, and of the proceedings under it, that the re"cord should sfhowthat he .acted upon a case which
the law submitted to his jurisdiction. The order
of the County Court, for the sale of the defendant's
land, having been founded upon this judgment; is
exposed to the same objection which applies to
the judgment itself. If the judgment was void, an
execution; or order of sale, founded upon it, was
equally so. This Court must,. therefore, decide,
that the deed from the Sheriff to Sap ington, under
whom the defendant claims, was utterly void, having been made without any legal autlkority.
2. The next question is, whether, under the circumstances stated in the bilL of exceptions, the
possession of the defendant was protected by the
statute of limitations of the State of Tennessee ?
This statute, which passed in' the yepr 1797, enacts, "that in all cases wherever any person or
persons shall have-had seven years peaceable possession of any land, by virtue of.a grant, or deed of
conveyance, founded upon a grant, and no legal
dlaim by suit in law be set up to said land, within
the above said *term,*that then, and in that case,
the person, &c. &c. holding possession as aforesaid; shall be entitled to hold possession, in preference to all other claimants, of such quantity of land
as shall be spccified in his, her, or their said grant.

CAS1±

550
1824.
k
a.e
Turner.

IN THE SUPREME COURT

or deed of conveyance, founded on a grant as aforesaid."
In the case of Pottnn's lessee r. Easton,(1
Wheat.
Rep. 476.) a construction of the above act was
given by this Court, in which it was decided, that
a possession of seven years is a bar, only when it
is held under a grant, or under a deed founded on
a grant; and that, as the defendant, in that case,
showed no title under the trustees of the town of
Nashville, nor under any other- grant, his seven
years possession was insufficient to protbct his
title, or to bar that of the plaintiff, under a conveyance from the trustees.
That was a stronger case for the defendant than
the present; for in that the defendant gave in
evidence a deed, for a valuahip consideration, from
Josiah Love to William T Lewis, at a time when
the possession of the lane in controversy was vacant. That Lewis, immediately after the conveyance, took possession of the land, made valuable
improvements thereon, and continued so possessed
for about seventeen years, when hd sold and conveyed the same to the delfendant, who took and
continued the possession until the ejectment was
brought. Here, ihen, was an entry upon land in
the actual possession of no person, under a bona
fide deed, and -a.long continued possession under
that title, which could not avail the defendant, because he could not trace a connected title up to a
grant. In the present case, it appears, from the
defendant's own showing, that Sappington, under
whom he claims, had no title. If the defendant
claims under a grant, or under mesae conveyances,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which connect him with a grant, he gains a prefer- 1824.
ence, by seven years possession, over all other Walker
claimants, however superior their title may be to
V.
Turner.
this
But
possession.
such
of
his, indbpendent
possession'is of no value to him, unless he can
show such a title as is above described. The case of
Harrisand Holmes v. filedsoe's lessee, decided by
the Supreme Court of Errors and Appeals of the
State of Tennessee, in-January, 1821, of which a
manuscript reportwas handed to thd Court, seems
in principle to be undistinguishable from the present, except that in that, the defendant connected himself with a grant ; if the state of the case,
which is very imperfectly set forth, in the opinion
of one of the Judges, is rightly under.tnod by this
Court. But the infirmity of the defendant's title
lay in one of the links of the chain, which was
that of a deed from executors who had no power
to sell and convey by the law, nor was it given by
the will of the testator. Even a deed of confirmation, which was executed with a view to cure this
defect in the title, was unavailing, "because," to
use the language of one of the Judges, "the act
tobe confirmed was void." In the case before the
Court, the defect in thedaefendait's chain of title,
is the want of authority in the Sheriff to convy
to Sappington, which rendered his deed absolutely void.
The Court is, therefore, of opinion, that the
Court below erred in stating to the jury that the
deed to.Sappington, under the judgment of Sappington's administrator against Walker, was sufficient to vest the title of Walker in Sappington;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and that the deeds referred to were of such a coor appearance of title as, connected With
elour
Walker
seven years peaceable and continued .possession,
v.
Turner. by the persons claiming under them, and the.grant
1824.

to Walker, would protect the possessor under
the statute of limitations. It is deemed unnecessary to notice, the third point, because, if the
charge requires of a defendant more than the law
does, to entitle him to the benefit of the seven
years possession, it-is so far favourable to the

p1,matiff in'error. It certainly does not require of
him less. Neither does the Court notice'the Sheriff's deed to Sappington for the lot in controversy,
purchased by him at public auction, under process
of the County Court, for non-payment of taxes,
as that subject was not noticed by the Judge, in his
charge to the jury, and it can, therefore, present
no question for the consieration of this Court.
Judgment reversed, and a venirefacias de novo
awarded.
This cause came on to be heard,
JUDGMENT.
&q. Oii consideration whereof, this Court is or
opinion, that the said Circuit Court erred in stating
to the jury that the deed to R. B. Sappington.
under the. judgment of said M. B. Sappinglon's
administrator against said Walker, was sufficient to
vest the title of said Walker in said Sappington,
and that the deeds referred to, werd of such a colour or appearance of title, as, connected with
seven years peaceable and continued possussion,
by the person claiming upder them, and the grant

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to said Walker, would protect the-possession under the statute of limitations. It -is, therefore,
ORDERED and ADJUDGED, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this case be, and the same
hereby is reversed and annulled.

5M
1824.
catlm.

V.

[PRACTXCE.]

CATLETT

v. BRODIE.

Under the judiciary act of 1780, ch. 20. s. 202. the security to be
taken from the plaintiff in error, by the Judge signing a citation
oan a writ of error, must be sufficient to secure the whole amount
of the judgment, and is not to be confined to such damages as the
appellate Court may adjudge for the delay.

Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the marca un1t.
Court.
A motion has been made to dismiss this, and
several, other suits, unless the plaintiff in error
shall give new bonds for the prosecution of the
writ, within a limited period, to be fixed by the
Court, upon the ground that the writs of error have
been allowed by the Judges of the Circuit, Court
for the Dis ict of Columbia, upon bonds being
given in. small sums to respond the damages and
costs, the debts secured by the judgments being
veiy much larger.
The judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20. s. 22. requires every Judge or Justice, signing a citation on
VOL. IX.

70

