658

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

Court, with the requisite certainty; and it may*
Tafterwards,
during the term, according to the rules
of the Court, be reduced to form, and signed by
the Judge ; and so, in fact, is the general practice.
But in all such cases, the bill of exceptions is signed nunc pro. tune; and it purports on its face to
be the same, as if actually reduced to forib, and
signed, pending the trial. And it would be a fa.
tal error, if it were to appear otherwise; for the
original authority, under which bills of exceptions are allowed, has always been considered to
be restricted to matters of exception taken pending the trial, and ascertained before the verdict.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

[Pszr.j
The

FANNY.
The CONSUL-GENERAL OF
PORTUGAL, Libelant.

Case of capture by an armed vessel, fitted out in tho ports of tho
United States, in breach of the neutrality acts. Claim by tin alleged honie fide, purchaser in a foreign pdrt tbjected, dnd" restitution decreed to the original owners.
A bones fidci purchaser, without notice, in such case, is entitled to bo
reimbursed the freight which he may have paid upon the captured
goods; and the innocent neutral carrier of such goods, the samo •
having been transhipped ina foreign port, is entitled to fre!ght-out
oif the gooils.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
the ConsulThis was the case of a libel filed by

General of Portugal, on behalf of certain Portuguese subjects, owners of a number of hides which
had been brought from St. Thomas to Baltimore
in the brig Fanny. The facts proved in the cause,
which the Court considered to be material, are the
following:
Some time in the year 1817, Robert M. Goodwin, Clement Cathill, Jame Halsey, and John R.
Mifflin, all of them citizens of the United States,
and denominated "The American concern," fitted
out, at Buenos Ayres, a brig, called La .Republiqana, as a privateer to cruise against the subjects
of Spain and Portugal, under a commission obtained for her from Jose Arligas. Thus prepared,
she sailed under the: command of Obadiah Chase,
also a citizen of the United States, and, in February,
.1818, she captured the Portuguese brig Aurora,
which, with. her cargo, were sent to St. Barts, and
there.sold as American property for about 20,000
dollars. With this mbney, thus raised, Goodwin
proceeded to Baltimore, and there invested it in the
.purchase of a new brig, called the Athenea, which
had been lately built at that port. Having changed
her name E-othat of the New Republicana, both pri*va.teers-shipped their crews at Baltimore, together
with their munitions, of war, except the cannon
and carriages for the latter vessel, which,. with'a
view of deceiving the custom-house officers, were
put on board of a small schooner, and were transferred to this privateer, -a few miles below the

6J59
1824.
The Fanny.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

fort. The commission, t~gether with other papers
to the Republicana, were delivered to

Sbelonging

'he Fanny. the New Republicana, and both the privateers

proceeded to sea; the lattbr tinder the command
of the above mentioned Clement Cathill, one of
the own'ers.. She soon after fell in with the Portuguese ship Don Pedro de Alcantara, laden with
a valuable cargo of hides, sugar, &c. which she
captured on the 22d of September, 18 18, and ordered in to the Five Islands, there to await the
orders, of Goodwin. At this place, Goodwin transhipped the principal part of the cargo into several small vessels, which proceeded to the island of
St. Thomas, consigned to Souffron & Co., merchantA of that. place.- The residue of ihe cargo,
except a small part, which was afterwards taken,
together with the *Don Pedro, by Commodore
Jolly, commanding a squadron .belonging to the
republic of Colombia, was also carried by Goodwin
to St. Thomas, in the old privateer,-at which place
it is probable the whole or a great part of the captured property was.sold. Nathaniel Levy, the American Consul at that island, purchased 4004 of the
hides, which, together with 555 logs of lignum
vitte, he shipped in the brig Fanny to Baltimore,
where she arrived in January, I1]9, consigned to
Lyde Goodwin. On the 21st of, this month, the
hides and lignum vitte were libelled as Portuguese
property, illegally taken on the high seas, and on
the 27th of the same month, the Jignum vitc was
released from the operation of the liblel.
To this libel a claim was filed by Lyae Goodwin, as agent of Levy, in which it is asserted that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the hides had been purchased by Levy, in the re- 1824.
gular course of trade,- from Souffron & Co., and "The Fanny.
all knowledge of the matters alleged in the libel
is denied. On the 15th of March the hides were
delivered upon stipulation, having been appraised
at the sum of 1!a000 dollars.
In the progress of the cause in the District
Court, the owners of the brig Fanny presented to
the Judge a petition, setting forth, -that on the 6th
of October, 1818, Nathan Levy entered into a
charter-party of affreightment with the petitioners
for -the brig Fanny, on certain terms stated in the
petition, for a voyage from Baltimore to St. Lucie,
and if required, to three other ports in the West
Indies, and thence back to Baltimore. That, under this charter-party, the said brig took-in a cargo
at Baltimore,and sailed to St. Lucie, and to three
other ports, and finally delivered the cargo to the
said Levy, who afterwards shipped on board the
said brig, at St. Thomas, 4000 hides and 555
sticks of lignum vitea, to be carried to Baltimore,
where she arrived on the 17th of January, 1819.
That upon her arrival, and when the master was
about to-deliver the cargo to the consignee ofLevy,
this libel and claim were filed, and the cargo was
taken .from the possession of the .master by the
Marshal, under the proceqs' of the Said Court.
That there was. then due to the petitioners,
on the said charter-party, the sum of 2094 dollars
50 cents, as admitted by the said Levy, which they
pray may be paid out of the proceeds of the hides
and lignum Vit'e. This petitibn Was accompanied
by an accountdated the 28th of December, t818,

662

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

signed by Nathan Levy, acknowledging a balance
2094 dollars 50 cents to be due the said brig
The~anny. Fanny on the charter-party.
Below this account
Sof

is the following entry, not signed by any person:
"The freight on the homeward cargo, consisting of
4004 hides and 555 sticks of lignum vztx, S1047
25." The Court made an order that the agent of
the claimant should pay the freight on the above
goods to the amount of 1047 dollars 25 cents.
The District Court decreed the claimants to pay
to the libellnnt the appraised value of the hides, as
mentioned in their stipulation, together with interest and costs; after deducting the amount of
freight theretofore ordered to be paid. This decree being wholly affirmed by the Circuit Court,
upon an appeal, both par ies .appealed from that
decree to this Court.
Mr. D. Hoffman, for the libellant, argued,
1. That this was a piratical taking, there being
no sufficient evidence of a valid commission., But
if the power granting the commission were valid,
still the seizure is piratical, as the commission was
not only amortised;but transferred to a new ves
sel and a new commander, by whom it was abused
in the grossest acts of violence, evincive of an ani-.
mus depredandi, and which constituted the captors trespassers ab initio.' Had the authority
which granted the commission been competent,
a 7 Wheat. Rep. 476. 8 Wheat. Rep.. 11.
b 3 Wood. Lec. 14 Johns. Rep. 273.

,OF THE UNITED STATES.

66S

and -the proceedings under it regular, as the laws 1824.
of this couintry have boen violated by the captors, The Fany.
who are American citizens, this Court will: restore
the res capta.'. The appellaint claims the protection of this Gourt; on the ground of his being a
b n- fidi purchaser, under a valid condemnation.
If this could avait him in law, he has failed in his
proof of bonafides. Every circumstance of evidence and pr6bability is against him. Admitting,
however, that there was a purchase in good faith,
and under entire ignorance of the circumstances,
the title of this claimant cannot be valid against
that of the original owners, since there was no
condemnation in point of fact; and if there had
been, still, as-the. taking was either without a valid
commission, o. in virtue of an amortised or abused one, the condemnation would be inoperative."
-2. Levy, if free from all blame, cannot sustain
his claim,: under the doctrine of market overt.
There -can be no such protection for property taken jure be li,.at least until after condemnation;
and the doctrine of market overt is itself unknown
to the jus gentium.
3. A condemnation is produced, but it is wholly
unnecessary to dwell on its operation, since a condemnation, in all respects -valid as between belligerents, cannot deprive ;this Court of its power to
-

a 6 Wheat. Rep, 152. 7 Wheat. Rep. 496. 8 Wheat. Rep. 1US.
6 2 Bro. Civ. Lato, 55, 2*52, 253. -268. 461.464. 1 Joms.

Rep. 471. Bee's Rep. so8.

5 Wheat.'RP. s45, s46.

"c 2 Wood. Lec. 429. 1 Johmn. Coa. 471.
fartens on Prir.
44. Mola. de Jure Mar.57. 60. 68. 85. God. 193. Hob. 7.0.
7 'heat. Rep. 490.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

restore, when the original taking was in violation
"
our laws.
And, secondly, the condemnation
The
Fanny. of
now
exhibited, cannot possibly apply
to the property in question, as it will be found, on reference
to the dates, that this decree of condemnation was
some time after Levy's alleged purchase, and, indeed, only a few days prior to the filing of the libel
in this cause. But,
4. The main point of inquiry regards the claim
to freight. We contend, that the appellant is responsible to us for the entire value of the hides, as
the same is ascertained by the stipulation, together
with interest; and that the freight bill, though
properly paid by the appellant to the innocent
ship-owner, cannot now be deducted by this ille-gal captor, from the amount stipulated to be paid
by him. Waiving all question which might be
made, as to the power of this Court to decree
freight in the case, on the ground of incidentaljurisdiction, we insist that the pr9sent is not a claim
by the ship-owner. for his freight, but by the appellant, to have the same allowed to him out of this
fund, as having been properly paid by him. If
this Court reject the clim of the appellant to the
property, on the ground of its having been illegally
captured, and that this infirmity adheres to the
property even in the hands of a boncefidei purchaser, we are at a loss to conceive how this purchaser can rightfully impose any charge or incumbrance whatever upon it. But when we advert to
the real character of the appellant, and find him
a -8 Wheat. Rep. 108. 167'. 174.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

an unworthy claimant, in truth as much so as' the

665
1824.

captor himself had been, we cannot suppose that The Fan.'
the hands of
he can be entitled to any favour at.

this Court. He brought this prize property into
an American port, without the knowledge or privity of its owner, and surely ought not to claim
either compensation or indemnity, for doing that
which, as to the other party, is in.invitum, and
has proved, in fact, extremely prejudicial to him.
If this be a claim on the fund, it is only so as regards the innocent owner. No lien can be created
by one who has no property, general or special,
in the thing. If a malefidei possessor cannot so
mortgage or pledge the property, as that such
mortgage or pledge shall be valid against the true
proprietor, he is not competent to create any lien,
nor to impose any charge or incumbrance whatever. But without pressing this point, we do not
think that the appellant is entitled to be subrogated
to the rights of the innocent ship-owner, if such
right of lien even vested in him. If this claim to
freight were one in rem, as well as in personam,
and the illegal captors, or those claiming under
them, have satisfied the personal obligation, it does
not follow that they can now enforce that lien
against thefunid which it might, argumentigratia,
be admitted that the ship-owner possessed. This
is very unlike the case of a nteutrals claim for
freight on belligerent property captured from him
by another belligerent. The neutral had. a right so
to employ his vessel, subject only to the belligerent's right to make the seizure ; he, therefore, in
such c~tse, takes it cum onere, and must pay the
VOL.

IX.-

84

-666
i24

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

neutral his freight. The object -here,-however, is
. F-,y. to transfer the obligation of paying the freight
from the illegal captor to the despoiled individual.
If.the-controversy were now wholly between the
Portuduese owners of the propert, and the innocent American ship-ownerr the claim might deserve some cobsideration.. In this case, the shipowner is the.agett of the captors, or those claiming
under them, not of the Portuguese owner, and as
such, must-look to-his employers, -and not to the
goods ; and if, in fact, the illegal captor has paid
the freight, he cannot thereby entitle himself to be
refunded out ofthe fruits of his piratical taking.
The claim to freight is always conventional; a
claim even to 'pro rata freight, arises from eome
convention, and not from the simple fact-of trans-L
portation. In this case, no conse& of the owners
to the shipment to Baltimore can -be implied.
Our claim to the property is disputed on all points;
ahd~f non*e of these is found tenable, but the taking
is ascertained to be a gross act of piracy, it would
be.a strange.ano~naly, that an honest and lawful
belligerent must pay freight to a ne utral shipowner, and yet that a piratical captor shall be exempt from charges voluntarily'imposed by him on
the property, and. that these shall be cast on those
whom he hasondeavoured to despoil.
5. The Court below has, also, manifestly erred
in allowing the entire.freight bill, as this includes
a charge on some lignum vitivwhich -formed no
part of that which is owned or demanded by the
libella*nt.- We, theiefore, ask at the hands of this
.Court, the ;whole value of the property, as it is as-

OF TRE 'NITED STATES.

667

L-ertained by the stipulation, together With interest 1824.
from its date, so that the claim to freight 0may be The Fanny.
wholly rejected. The ship-owner is, indeed, the
petitioner for freight in this case; but he has been
since paid, and the claim, in truth, is now at the
instance of the captor, who desires to be subrogated to the rights of the ship-owner, and to enforce
his lien, if he had one. We have endeavoured to
show, that no such right existed, and that if it ever
did, the captor is not entitled to receive the benefit ofsuch lien.
Mr. Winder, contra,, argued principally upon
the facts, to show that the alleged purchase was
bonafide.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON, delivered the opinion arard,ith.
of the Court; and after stating the case, proceeded as follows:
The above case presents two questions for the
consideration of this Court. 1. Whether the
Court below was correct, in restoring to the Portuguese owner that part of the cargo of the Fanny
which was restored? And, 2.. Whether the freight
which was ordered by the Court to be paid to the
owners of that vessel, ought, in whole or in part,
to have been dedicted from the appraised value
of the hides ?
Upon the first question, it is to be observed, that
the facts above stated are incontestibly proved by
the evidence in the cause. That the capturing
vessel, the New Republicana, was built at Balti-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18"v,. . more,
at that place by citizens of the
Unitedpurchased
States, and there mannod 4nd fitted
for
sea,. armed and equipped a.s a vessel of war, within the waters and jurisdiction of the United States;
and with such equipments,.left the'United States,
to cruise against the vessels and property of Spanish and-- Portuguese subjects on thb high seas;
an'd- pon such cruise, captured the Don Pedro do
Alcantara, with a valuable cargo, belonging to
Portuguese subjects, were facts too clearly proved
to be questioned ; nor were they questioned by the
counsel for -the claimants. It is established,, by
e-dence equallyclearAnd uncontradicted, that tht
4004 hides which were brought in the Fanny from
St..Thomas to Baltimore, upon which the sentence
,:ofthe Court below opeiated, formed a part of the
-cargo of the Don Pedro de Alcantara at the time
of her capture, and that they were the property of
Portuguese subjects.
This, then,'is the case of .property belonging
to the subjects of a friendly power, captured on
the high seas by a privateer, owned and commanded by citizens of the United States, fitted
and equipped as a vessel of war, within the waters-and jurisdiction of the United States; a~ad,
.according to the uniform decisions of this Court
in. simila- cases, as well as in others, where similar
equipments have been made within the waterb of
the United, States by foreigners, thd'property so
illegally captured and brought within our jurisdiction, must be restored to the original owners,
unless it could -bemaintained that the sale of it
to the claimant devested those owners of their right

OF THE UNITED" STATES.

to thesame. But it is to be remarked, in the first
place, that the asserted purchase of these bides
whatby Levy is unsupported by any evidence.

ever. He alleges in- his claim, that he purchased
the hides for a valuable consideration from Souffron & Co' in the regular course of trade; but
this allegation is not upheld by any written document, or by the testimony of a'single witness.
The cause was depending more than two years in
the Courts. below, during all which time it was
fully in the power of the claimant, a resident of
the island of St. Thomas, to have proved the
reality of this purchase, by the testimony of the
vendors, or otherwise, if thb'fact had been as.it
was alleged.
But, admitting the truth of the asserted sale to
Levy, he -was, nevertheless, purchaser from the
agent of a tortious possessor of property to which
he bad no title whatever, and who, consequently,
could transfer none to his vendee. The proceedings in the Vice-Admiralty Court of Margarita,
by Commodore Jolly, against the Don Pedro de
Alcantara and the small part-of hbr cargo which
had not been transhipped at the Five Islands, so
far from amounting to a 'sentence of condemfiation, even of the property libelled as prize of war,
proceeded upon the grouna of a recapture from a
non-commissioned privatder, for which the recaptor was rewarded by a liberal salvage, and the
residue of the sales of the property was decreed
to the Portuguese owners, in case they should
claim the same within the period of a year and a
day,. This Court is. therefore, of opififlon that

1-824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME -COURT

1824.

the decree of the Circuit Court, so far as it reh
stores to the libellant the 4004 bides, or their proTheFamny.
ceeds,
is right, and ought to be affirmed.

The second question respects the freight, which
the decree of the Court below ordered to be deducted from the appraised value of the hides; and
it is attended by no difficulty but such as arises
from the confinpd and imperfect statement of the
facts appearing in this record. That the freight
of the ligium ite, which did not belong to the
libellants, and against which the proceedings were
abandoned, ought not to have been paid out of
the proceeds of the hides, is a matter which we
think is quite too -lear to be disputed; and we
think it probable that the mistake was occasioned
by air oversight in. the Judge of the District Court,
from his not knoWing, or recollecting, when the
petition for freight was before .him,. that the lignum vita had been released from the operation of
the libel. The decree, then, must, of course, be
reversed, for ibis reason, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings, in order to ascertain and
separate the freight upon that article, from that
due upon the hides.
But there is, apparently, error in the decree in
respect to' the whole of the freight, *which, it is
possible, may be explained and'removed by a further examination of this subject in the Court helow. - The petition for freight claims the precise
sum ot 2094 dollars and 50 cents, as the balance
.acknowledged to be due by the claimantr and the
account, signed by him on the 28th of December,
1818, which accompanied the, etiti0n- amounted

OF THE- UNITED STATES.

to an acknowledgment that that sum was then due. 1824.
The Fanny.
The- items of that account are, freight on 1095 Teay
barrels of flour, out and home, per charter-party, 5
cases of furniture, 36 bags of corn, and 7 days demurrage. Below that account is stated the freight
due upon.the hides and lignum vitae, amounting
to 1047 dollars and 25 cents. It would seem,
therefore, as if the freight upon the hides and
lignum vite, which arrived in Baltimore some
time in January, 1819, was not included in the
account signed by the claimant, and if so, it was
not claimed to be due, nor required by the petition to be paid. Yet the order of the Court was,
that it should be paid, and it was accordingly deducted from the appraised value of the hides. If
the case should turn out to be suqh as is above
supposed, it would seem to warrant the conclusion, that the freight upon the hides had been paid
by Levy, in which case it ought not to be deducted
from their appraised value, unless the reality of
the asserted purchase of the hides .yLevy should'
be made to appear to the satisfaction of the Court
below, without which, 'weare of opinion that he
is to be considered as a male fidei possessor,
and, consequently, as not efititled to be reimbursed
the freight so paid, outof the propelfty of the Portuguese owners. If, on the other hand, it should
appear that the claimant was a bone fidei purchaser of the hides, without notice, or that the freight
.upon them had not been paid by. him to the
owners of the Fanny, then it was properly deducted.

672
1824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
DECRE.
This cause came on to be heard, &c,
On consideration whereof, it is MECREED and onDERED, that so much of the decree of the said Circuit Court as' ordeis that the claimant pay to the
libellant the appraised value of the hides, in the
proceedings mentioned, .together with interest and
costs of suit, be, and the same is hereby affirmed,
with costs, subject, however,' to such dedtr.,tion
for freight as the said Circuit Court may hereafter
direct, to be paid out of said appraised value,' as
may be hereafter decreed under the further proceedings in this cause: And as to so much of said
decree of said Circuit Court, as directs the umount
of freight to be deducted, agreeably to the previous ordpr of said Circuit Court,. the same is
hereby reversed and annulled. And it'is further
ORDI)RD, that said cause.be remanded to*the said
Cir4%'.Court; for further proceejigs to be had

&etoii, according to law) for the purpose-of ascertaining, upon fuitner proof, wbethr.the claimant h.d '.gid the freight.of-the hides to the owner
of.*he hItny; and, if'sf k'whether the claimant
was a boivr fidei purchaser of said hides, without
notice. And if the. said Court should be satisfied
from such further- proof, that: the 'said claimant,
Nathawq .Levy, has paid the owner of the Fanny
foy said freight, or that-he was not such bonrjfidei
purchaser, without n'otice, -then with instructions
.notoallow a deduction of. freight froth the said
'appraised value. But ifthe said claimant was
spch&inna fidei purchaser, without notice, or if
said freight had not been paid.by said claimant to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the owners of the Fanny, then the freight torthe 1-824.
hides, excluding the freight on the liguum vif
Danforth
V.
to be deducted from the .appraised value of said
We.
hides.

[LociL LAW.]
D-4.FORTH V. WFkR.
The acts of Assembly of North Carolina, passed between the years
1788 and 1789, invalidate all entries,, surveys, and grants; of land
ivithin the Indian territory, which now forms apart of the teritory
of the State of Tennessee. But they do not avoid entries com"mencing without the Indian boundary, .and running into it, to far
ps respectsthaip'.tion 6f the land A.ituhte
hout their terriory.
The act of North Carolina, of 1784, authorizing the remoying-.of
warrantzs which had beeh Iocaed ppon lnds prevwously, takhn up,
so as to place them upon vacandlands, did not repeal".ty 1rplication, the previously existing laws, Pvhich probibitgd iurveys of lal
within the Indian boundary. The lands to which such removals
are made, must be lands previously subjected to entry and survey.

ERRQR to the Circuit Court of Wdst Tennessee.
This cavise was argued 4t the last term,. and Fe. 1
again argued at the present term, by the Attornz&jGeneral 4nd Mr.' wann,, for the plaintiff, naa'
by Mr.. Will4.ms, for the defendanX.
a They cited 2 Tenn. Ref. 157.

N.

..Rep. in Confer. 440.

i Tenn. Rep. so.

b He cited Prestdn v. Browder, 1iFWat Rep. 115.
v. Thomas, Id. 155.

VoL. IX.

85

Dahforih

