OF THE UNITED STATES.

to said Walker, would protect the-possession under the statute of limitations. It -is, therefore,
ORDERED and ADJUDGED, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this case be, and the same
hereby is reversed and annulled.

5M
1824.
catlm.

V.

[PRACTXCE.]

CATLETT

v. BRODIE.

Under the judiciary act of 1780, ch. 20. s. 202. the security to be
taken from the plaintiff in error, by the Judge signing a citation
oan a writ of error, must be sufficient to secure the whole amount
of the judgment, and is not to be confined to such damages as the
appellate Court may adjudge for the delay.

Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the marca un1t.
Court.
A motion has been made to dismiss this, and
several, other suits, unless the plaintiff in error
shall give new bonds for the prosecution of the
writ, within a limited period, to be fixed by the
Court, upon the ground that the writs of error have
been allowed by the Judges of the Circuit, Court
for the Dis ict of Columbia, upon bonds being
given in. small sums to respond the damages and
costs, the debts secured by the judgments being
veiy much larger.
The judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20. s. 22. requires every Judge or Justice, signing a citation on
VOL. IX.

70

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1-824. -a writ of error, to take good and sufficient 8ecu..
the plaintiff in error "shall prosecute his
r. wrii to effect, and answer all damages and costs,
Thodie.
if he fails to make his plea good." A writ of
C
Catlett

"rity ,that

error lodged in the Clerk's office, within tcn days
after the rendition of judgment, operates as a
supersedeas of execution; and the question arises, whether, in cases where it operates as a supersedeas, the security taken by the Judge or Justice
ought not to be sufficient to secure the whole
amount of the judgment.
It has been supposed at the argument, that tho
act meant only to provide for such damages and
costs as the Court should adjudge for thc delay.
But our opinion is, that this is not the true interpretation of the language. The word "damages"
is here used, not as descriptive of the nature of'
the claim upon which the original judgment is
founded, but as descriptive of the indemnity
which the defendant is entitled to, if the judgment is affirmed. Whatever losses lie may sustain by the judgment's not being satisfied and paid,
after the affirmance, these are the damages which
he has sustained, and for which the bond ought
to give good and sufficient security. Upon any
suit brought on such bond, it follows, of course,
that the obligors are ot liberty to show that no damages have been suztained, or partial damages
only; and for such amount only is the obligee entitled to judgment.
In the present case, and in the other cases
which are in the same predicament, the Court di-

555

OF TILE UNITED STATES.

rects that these suits stand dismissed, unless the
plaintiff in error shall g;ve good and sufficient
security to-an amqunt to secure the whole judg'?
ments, on which the writs are brought, within
thirty days from the rising of this Court, such security to be taken and approved by any Judge or
Justice by whom a writ of error or citation mnky
be allowed.
It is ordered by the Court, on motion
off Ir. Key, of counsel for the defendant in error,
that this cause do stand dismissed, unless the
plaintiff in error shall, within thirty days from the
rising of this Court, giv e a bond, with good and
sufficient security, in due form of law, to prosecute
his writ with effect, and to answer all damages
and costs, if he fail to make his plea good; the
amount of such security to be sufficient to secure
the whole judgment, in case the same shall. be
affirmed, and be not otherwise discharged; such
security to be taken and approved by any Judge
or Justice who is authorized to allow a writ of error and citation on the said judgment.
ORDER.

1824.
Cation

.

Brodia.

