CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
'ine'

V.
Stewbx-t.

We are of opinion; that there is error in the
judgment of the Court below, in refusing to let the
grant be read to the jury.
Judgment reversed.

(SURETY.)
MILLER V. STEWART

and others.

The contract of a surety is to be construed trictly, and is not to be
extended beyond the fair scopp of its terms.
Where a bond was given, conditioned fdr the faitbful performance of
the' duties of the office bf Deputy Collector of direct tads for
eight certain townships, and the instrument of the appointmont,
referred to in the bond, was afterwards altered, 'so us to extend to
bnother township, without the consent of the sureties, held, that

the surety was discharged from his responsibility for moneys sutsequentl collected by his principal.

THIS was a case certified from the Citcoit
Court for the District of New-Jergey, 'upon a
certificate of a division bf opinion of the Judgoa
of that Court. It was an action of debt upon
bond, and the material facts disclosed in the pleadings were, that the plaintiff, Ephraim Miner;.being
Collector of the direct taxes and internal dutifp
for tho fifth Collection District of New-Jersey, by
an *instrument of appointment, under seal, and
pursuant to law, appointed Stephen C. Ustick his
Deputy Collector, for eight townships within his

OF THE UNITED STATES.

district. Upon that occasion, the defendant, Tho- 1824.
mas Stewart, and certain other persons, as sureties, executed a writing obligatory, with Ustick,
V.
to Miller, in the penalty of. 14,000 dollars, upon Stew-u
ths following condition, viz. " The condition of
the foregoing obligation is such, whereas Ephraim
Miller, Esquire, Collector, as aforesaid, hath, by
authority vested in him by the laws of the United
Statds, appointed the said Stephen B. Ustick, De-puty Collector of direct taxes and internal duties,
in the fifth Collection, District of New-Jersey, for
the townships of Nottingham, Chesterfield, Mans-field, Springfield, New-Hanover, Washington,
Little Egg Harbour, and Burlington; in the county
of Burlington; now, therefore, if the said Stephen C. Ustick, has truly and faithfully diseiatged,
and shall continue, truly and faithfully to discharge,
the duties of the said appointment, according to
law, and shall particularly faithfully collect and
pay, according to law, all money assessed upon
said townships, then the above obligation to be
void, and otherwise, shall abide and remain in
full force and virtue." After the exc'eution of this
bond, and .before Ustick had, in any Inanner, acted
under this .appointment, or collected or received
any moneys under the same,. Miller, with the assent of Ustick, but without the assent or knowledge of the defendant, Stewart, altered the
same instrument of appointment, by interlining in
it another township, called, " Willingborough,"
thereby making it an appointment for nine instead
of eight townships; tind under the appointment,
so altered, Ustiok received, within the original
VOL. TX.

86

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
v.
Stewart.

eight townships, certain moneys, as taxes,'which
he omitted to account for- and this omission was
the breach-stated in the declaration. The question for the opinion of the Court, upon the special
pleadings and demurrer, was, whether the alteration so made, without the consent of St6wart, discharged him from any iesponsibility for the moneys so subsequently collected by Utick.
Mr. Wood, for the plaintiff, admitted the general doctrine, that whore the corftract is annulled
without .the assent of.the surety, there is an end
of the guaranty. So, if the contract is, in any
material respect, changedby the contracting parties, (whether advantageously for the surety or
not,) in respeertothat part of it to which he guaranty extends, the surety is discharged for he
may, then, well say, non htc in federa eni.
But, if ai change is made in the original contract,
by the contracting parties, in a part of the contract to which the guaranty does not extend, such
change will not discharge the surety, unless it disadvantageously affected the other part of the contract to which the guaranty does extend. Thus,
where "the.defendant was surety to the ljlaintiffs,
for the performance of duties by a clerk in their
banking house, a change of partners was held not
to discharge the surety, ,because, though such
change had an important bearing upon the establishment, it did not come -within the scope of the
guaranty.a A mere diminution of that part of
a Barclay v. Lucas, 1 T. R. 291.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

663

the contract to which, the guaranty extends,' as a

1824.

i'e
release of part, • would not discharge the surety " 5Iikler
v.
from the part remaining, it being a part of the

thing guarantied, though not the whole. Oinn Stovall
majus in se continet minus: the surety, in such a
case, could not say that he might, bei prejudiced
by the diminution, for it is settled law, that a part
payment of the debt is for the benefit of the obligor, and prejudicial to the obligee, and, therefore,
it cannot -be pleaded as an accord and satisfaction.a

1. There was no surrenderby Ustick of his appointment as Deputy Collector, over the first eight
townships. If there was a surrender, it must have
been either in fact, or in law, that is, implied in the
alteration of the instrument. There was no such
surrender in fact; and the alteration of an instrument with consent ofparties, does not, in law, imply such a surrender. There are no authorities to
warrant the position, that such an alteration implies a surrender. On the contrary, they all say,
an alteration of an instrument, with consent, does
not vitiate it.' In Pagot v. Pagot, when blanks
in a deed were filled up after execution, the deed
was held'good, though not read again, nor re-executed. In Markham v. Gonaston,' and .Wooly v.
Constant,e the Court went on the ground not only
a Johnson v. Branna, 5 fohns. Rep. 270.
b Touch v. Clay, 2 Lev. 35. Shep. T6uch. 68.
CroQiker, 6 Masi. Rep. 539.
c 2 Ch.Rep. 187.
d Moore, 547.
e 4 Johns. Rep. 54.

Smith v.

684
1924,
Slowar

CASES IN .T.HE SUPREME COURT

that an altered deed or instrument was good, bit
that there was no surrender and redelivery implied
in the alteration, to devest the property.
There is nothing in prin6iple to warrant the
idea, tha't an alteration of an instrument implies a
surrender and redelivery. A surrender is an executed.contract. To constitute a surrender of an
instrument by a vendee or obligee, -to a vendor or
obligor, two things are necessary. 1. An actual
delivery of possession' to the latter; and, 2. An
understanding or agreement to part with the property in the instrument. The act azd th.e irqtent
must concur. A mere delivery of, possession by
the vendee of the deed, for a special purp6s., ti?
the vendor, or any other person, as to keep,fqr
him, or to do any otherparticular .gct. in relationito
it, is not a surrender. The vendee still has the
proportyin the deed himself. The vendox.,,iaquab
case, is only his bailee. Admit, for the sake af
argument, that the alteration of.a deed required xa
new delvery, in respect to the part altered, the
'vendee might then deliver possession of the deed
to the vendor, for that particular purpose, viz..
enable the vendee to deliver it anew, to give .effect"
to the altered part ; but not surrender his propwxry
in the. deed in respect to the part not altered.
Such-. an absolute surrender of the whole deed) is
not essential; and if not essential, it should not,
by a fictiQn of. law, be required. Suppbae the
-ealee should hand the deed to the vendor to
subjoin on a blank under it a new and distinot
deed for another tractof land, which is done, doea
Auch a delivery of the deed, for suclr a purpose,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

695

amount to a surrender of the old deed ? If not, 1824.
is there any difference, in reason 'and common
v.
sense, whether the conveyance of the second tract
Stewart.
subdeed
separate
and
distinct
a
in
is contained
joined on the same paper, or whether it is effected
by an interlineation, with consent of parties, in the
old deed? Fictionsand subtilties should never
be introduced into ihe law, which is a practical
science, unless to.subserve the purposes of justice.
I -fidione juwrs semper subsistit equitas. This
fiction of a surrender is unnecessary ; it may be
injurious. -A., pursuant to contract, conveys a
tract of land to B. ; they afterwards discover, that
-by mistake, a lot was omitted, and, by consent, it
is interlined. Upon this doctrine of surrender, the
deed and property, upon the interlineation, reverted to the vendor, and continued in him-until the
gam delivery; and, of course, it is subjected to the
intermediate judgn6nts of other liens of the vendor.- -The rule- of law may, and ought to correspond, in subhcases,.with -the real fact considering the lands originally contained in the dee4 us
passing at the date, and the land inserted.by inVtarineation,.as passing'at the time-of the-interli,

ning.
2. There was no cancellation of the original
instrumentof appointment. An alt-rati emaffects
an instrument in part; a cancellation destroys it
altogether. "When cancelled, a-deed must be xesealed and redelivered,to revive it.a ft is nawhere
40&V. ToMc?& 69.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

6
1824.
ier
Stewart.

said, that a redelivery is necessary, in case of an
alteration by consent.
3. The alterations did not cause a revocation of
the old appointment. It is admitted, that the appointment to, and acceptance of, a new office, incompatible with the old, is a revocation of the latter, as, if a Coroner accepts the office of a Sheri.
So, if there had been an intermediate office, between the Collector and his Deputy, incompatible
with the latter, its acceptance, by Ustick, might
have been a revocation of his office of Deputy. In
the present case, the alteration created no office.
It continued the same office, only extended over an
f.dditional territory. Ustick had the same office
and same power over the first eight townships after, as before the alteration. It is. said, his sphere
of action was enlarged. Be it so : it was enlarged only in respect to territory; his sphere of action over the first eight townships continued the
-same. It is said, that after the alteration, the
nine townships constituted but one offi e, and that
there was a new appointment consequently. The
interlineation, as before shown, did not destroy or
cause a surrender of the first appointment, with
respect to the eight original townships. It; then,
there was a new appointment of an office, it extended only to the ninth township. and that is a
distinct office from the other eight. If there were
not a new appointment, but simply an enlarge,ment of the old office, and still constituting one
office, it is an office consisting of different parts in
respect to territory, which parts are- easily distinguisked, and were created at different times; the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

687

former part, composing the first eight townships, IM24
being in no wise impaired by the latter, and of
v.
course, the guaranty is in no wise impaired by it.
stewaj.
the
distinguish'
to
impossible
is
it
that
It is said,
moneys paid in from the ninth township, from
those-collected in the other eight. The same objection might have been raised, and to the same
effect, if the appointments bad been by distinct
instruments. The jury will distinguish; it is a
question for them. It is said, that the responsibility of Ustick was increased ; and so is the responsibility of every debtor increased, who contracts
new dJbts ; but that does not discharge a surety.
4. Though where, in a bond, a previous instrument is recited, the contents thus recited are a part
of' the bond; yet the instrument recfted is no part
of the bond. Suppose A. conveys a tract of land
to B., and in order to explain the boundaries, a
deed from A. to C. for a tract of land adjacent is
recited, does the latter deed become a part of ftlh
former; and if destroyed, does it destroy the'other?
The dependency, or connexion between the instruments recited, and the obligation in whic! it is
recited, must always depehd upon the nature and
object of the instruments, and the intent of the
parties.
*Again; if this alteration, as contended on the
other side, amounted to a surrender of the instrumet of appointment, it was necessarily a revocation of'the appointment. Such a revocation cannot be made under the act of Congress; without
public notice being given in the district." No such
a 4 U. .L.557,55&

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824!

notice: was given in this case. If this alteration
amounts to a revocation of the instrument, in law,
er
and as such revocation cannot be made without
Ielvanr.public notice, the alteration must be void, and thq
original instrument stand good.
Mr. Coze, contra, argued, (1.) That the alteration. in the original instrument of appointment,
by the interlineation in a material part, destroyed
the bond as against such of the obligors as. were
not parties to the act. The appointment, being
.reeited in the bond, became incorporated into it,
and they, together, form quasi one instrument.
The condition of a bond or defeasance, need not
be contained in the same paper, but, though written on a distinct and separate piece, they together
constitute but one i.nstrument.a
If the condition of a bond, thus engrossed on
a separate piece of paper, becomes invalidated by
Any act having that legal operation, the whole instrument, though disconnected, becomps void.
As in the- case put by Sheppard, .if the obligation
depend upon, or be necessary to, some other deed,
and that deed become void, the obligation is become void also: as, if the conditi ?n of the obligation be to perform the covenants of an indenture,
and, afterWards, the coven dnts be discharged, or
become void, by this means the obligation is discharged and gone for ever.' The common case
of arbitration bonds will illustrate this position"
a Skep. Touch. 367 370.
6 lb. 39AT

Cro. Eliz. 657.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

689

if the award made be void in itself, or become 1824.
void, or be performed, the obligee cannot recover %.PVtb
v.
upon the bond, but that becomes void. Had the
Stewart.
body
the
in
interlineation
plaintiff made such an
of the obligation itself, inserting the name of another township, the legal effect cannot be disputed.
The whole bond would have been invalidated.4
The consequence, then, appears to be irresistible, that such must be the effect here. The appointment, originally made, became a nullity, and
could only be revived by a new execution and delivery; and take effect only from that time. As to
the original instrument to which the sureties of
Ustick made themselves parties, by inserting it in
their bond, it was wholly nullified.
It may, indeed, be said, that, the alteration in the
appointment having' been made with the consent
and acquiescence of Miller and Ustick, who alone
were parties to it, it remains a valid instrument of
deputation.
But the appointment is to be regarded in two
entirely distinct aspects: (.) As the instrument
of deputation solely. (2.) As made a part of the
bond, by being incorporated into it.
1. As a simple instrument of deputation, like
any other, deed,, it could operate only between the
parties to it, and could affect no others. The alteration, made, and concurred in by all those interested in it, would not avoid it, perhaps, according
to the current of modern authorities, though even
a Shep. Th7ouch. 68, 69.71.
VOL. IX.

1 Dal. 67.
87

2 Bac. Abr. 65b

690

CASES IN THE SUPREMt COURT

1824.
1Miller
v.

Stewart.

as between them the law was formerly held otherwise."
2. As being made a part of the bond by being
incorporated into it. By this circumstance, the
sureties of Ustick became parties to the act of
appointment, and to .the instrument of deputation.
It became a part of their bond. By no act of the
appointor and appointee could the interests of third
persons be even incidentally affected. A. makes
a bargain and sale to B., which cannot operate,
because no pecuniary consideration is inserted.
C. acquires, by. a judgment, or in tiny other manner, a lien upon the property as belonging to A.
The deed cannot be altered by the parties so as
to devest any intervening right. As an original
instrtlment, carrying its original date, it can have
no operation. As a. deed bearing the original
date, it is void; its future validity can be only
upon thejidea of a surrender of the instrument,
and a new delivery and execution.b
We contend, then, that by the alteration made
in -this instrum'ent of deputation,, it crased to have
any validity by virtue of its original- execution and
delivery; as such, it was annulled.
But, whether annulled or'not by this act of in-,
terlineation ; whether it continued to operate as
from. the time of its original delivery, or from the
.period pf its second delivery, aftbr the alteration
was made ; if it have any validity, even between
the parties, it cannot operate as the appointment
a 2 R611. Abr. 29. u. pl. 5.,"
b Eppes v. Randolph, 2 Call, 125.

4 Binn. 1. 4.

OF THE UNITED 3TATES.

recited in the bond. It is another and distinct 1824.
appointment from that to which the bond re- Miller
V.
ferred, and these sureties are not responsible for
Steart.
20th
the
By
it.
under
existing
deficiencies
any
section of the act of Congress, " Each Collector shall be authorized to appoint, by an instrument of writing under his hand and seal, as
many deputies as he may think proper, assigning to each such deputy, by that instrument of
writing, such portion of his collection district as
he may think proper; and, also, to revoke the
powers of any d6puty, giving public notice thereof
in that portion of the district assigned to such"
,deputy." The power of appointment thus given,
was eKercised by the original-instrument of deputation.for the eight townships. It is recited in the
bond, and,.therefore,.each party is estopped from
denying it.a This' instrumnent must have been
mad,prior to the execution of the bond, because
it is recited as already executed, and one of the
conditions is, that he hath performed the duties
of it. -It must have been an appoifitment, bearing
the date, and specially embracing the townships
therein.enumerdted, and nothing more'; otherwise
it would.be an appoihtmeqt differing from that. for
the faithful performance of which this defendant
became iesponsible. Supposing, then, it should
now be made to appear that the original .appointment included the township of Willingborough,
a Shelley v. Wright WilMes, 9. * Philfps, 356.
on Cont. 236, 237.

1 Powell

60.
1824,
'of

Miller

v.

StewarL

VASESM°'

THE SUPREME COURT

and that it was accidentally omitted in the recital
the bond, could a recovery be haid in thlis'dction? The answer of the surety is-won hizc infederaveni. The language of the Court, in Clifton
v. Walmesley, (5 T. R. 564. 567.) would be conclusive against the plaintiff. This was the doctrine
also in Ludlow v. Simond, (2 Gaines'Err.33.-42.
57.) The plea avers, and the demurrer admits, that
the deficiency sought to be recovered, arose under
an appointment including the township of Willingborough. The surety became responsible for
the faithful performance of the duties of no such
appointment; he, consequently, cannot be called
on to respond them. But there is no pretence
that any omission was made by fraud or mistake.
Under the appointment thus made, Ustick did
hold his office at the time the bond was exeacuted.
This office was as extensive as the eight townships
enumerated in the appointment, but restricted
within them. This limitation was of the very
essence df the appointment, by the express terms
of the statute.
.The' act of the 22d of July, 1813, ci. 16. s. 20.
requires that the assignment of the portion of the
collection district within which the depfzty is to
act, should be contained in the instrument of appointment. Such an appointment, then, being
made, it could only lawfully cease, (I.) by the
death of Ustick, the deputy; (2.) by surrender
of the appointment; (3.) by a revocation withont
his consent; (4.y by a new appointment; (5.) by
cancellation.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

693

The act which did take place, was, in substance, 1824.
z surrender of the original appointment, and the Miller
acceptance of a new one. The appointment, beV.
StwOart.
another
inserting
by
appointor,
the
by
ing altered
assignment of a portion of the collection district;
and after this alteration, being accepted and acted
under by the appointee, became, from the date of
such alteration and acceptance, a new and distinct
instrument. A new and distinct office was created, the duties and responsibilities of which differedessentially from the former; the instrument
of appointment included the entire portion of the
collection district assigned to the deputy, as required by the -statute. The legal inference is clear:
in the subsequent
thdfirst-appointment merged
andmore extensive one.0 If it operated as.a new
appointmentrit.operated also as a complete revocation of the former one.' Here was, then, -an
appointment perfectly. valid, complying with all
the requisitions of 'the law under which the officer
Wted, under which his dutieawere pe formed, under which his responsibilities attached. This,
however, was a totally distinct appointment from
that which the bond in auestion was given to cover. The appointment recited in, and covered by
the bond, was fo0 eight townships; the appointXlent under which the delinquency occurred, was
for aind. The defendant and his co-sureties never
did undertake to become responsible for one C'nt
a 5 Bac.A
20.4.
r
,
b Bowerbank v. Mors Wallace, i25. 129.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Miler

v.
Stewart.

under any other appointment than that s6t forth in
their bond, The recital restricts the operation
of the bond to that identical instrument of deputation therein specified.a

It can scarcely be necessary to cite the various
cases which go t6 fix and limit the responsibilities
of sureties, but a few of the most prominent may
be referred to. Lord Arlington v. Merrick, (2
Saund. 411.) is a leading case, and establishes
the principles, that a surety 6annot be bound beyond the scope of his engagement; that the generality of the language is restrained by. the recital ;
and that when'a particular appbintment is recited
in the condition of the bond, the obligation covers
only that appointment. So, where a bond was given t6 secure the faithful performance of the duties of collector of the society of musicians, and
afterwards the society was incorporated, the obligor was held not liable for'any default after the
incorporation.b "The old obligation does not, in
point of law, extend to the new corporation, and
a surety ha -a right to avail himself Qf the objection." "A surety can only be held liable according to the plain and clear force of his contract."
The cotdition of a bond recited, that A. was, on
such' a day,-appointed Collector, &c., and bound
the-sureties for bis duly accou'nting, &c.: held, that
the sureties were only answerable for that single
appointment, and not, for his appoihtment in the
a Pearsall v. Summqrsett, 4 Taunt. 593.
b Dance v. Gridler, 4 Bos. 8;'Pull.34.41, 42.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ensuing year.4 Other cases go to the establish- 1824.
ment of the same principles.b
Mfiler
- 3. It 'is no answer to the objections that have
. v.
now been considered, that the surety is not dam- Stert.
nified. He says, this is not the. contract into
which I entered, and it is immaterial whether it
be a more favourable one than that to which I became a partyor not. I have no wish to speculate
upon the subject of the relative duties and responsibilities. The question is simply what I have become responsible for. And, when you designate
the deficiency sought to be -recovered, an'd the
office in which it occurred, 'my answer is, it is not
in the bond. But the ground of increasing the
duties and- responsibilities,, is another .qually conclusive both in point of fact and law. If the original appointment be considered as still, subsisting,'if the words of the obligation would ;cover
this deficiency, the surety is entitled to judgment
in his favour, on the single ground that the duties'
and responsibilities are increased without his- concurrence. Every enlargement ofi the duties of
the Deputy Collector, by enlarging the. sphere of
his authority, increases his, responsibility, 4nd
adds to the danger of the surety. The amount
of moneys received is increased, and the conseaudnt danger of defalction augmented.0
a Wardlens of St. Savionis v. Bostock'et al. 5.Bo8.4, Pu. 175.

•179.

b Wright v. Russel, 3 Fis. 530.

Strange v. Lee;

East,

484. Rees v. Berrington','2 Ves. Jr. 5'40. Commonwealth v.
Fairfax etal. 4Hiei if Mtmf. 208.
c Rathlbone et al.- v.Warren,: io Jow. ReP.
Cdines' Err.33. 35.

587. 591.

2

696

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Can it be contended that, in point of fact, the
' Mj iller - defalcation would not have been less, if the deY. puty's authority had not been extended to the townStewart. ship of Willingborough, and, consequently, if
none of the moneys arising from that township
had been received by him? Did the defitiencies
now sought to be recovered occur, in whole or
in part, in reference to, the .money received from
Willingborough? Can we, in any manner, be
called upon to meddle with the accounts of that
township, by an act to which we never assented?
If the accounts are intermingled, as they necessarily must be, and in fact are, we cannot be called
on to disentangle them. In point of fact, then,
the responsibility and duties of the principal have
been increased, without the assent of the surety,
and, in point of law, that operates to discharge
him from any responsibility.
Mr. Sergeant, on the same side, stated, that
the question presented upon the pleadings was,
whether the defendant, Stewart, who was a surety
for,.Ustick, had become liable for'any default or
neglect.of Ustick, as a deputy bf Miller, the Collector?
The bond recited an appoiniment, previously
made, and the defendant was bound for the fidelity:of Ustick, under the said appointment. By
the terms of the contract, therefore, the appointment, antecedently made, was a part of the contract, as between Miller and Stewart, as completely
as if it bad been contained in the bond. The
appointment, thus made, was by deed, and so re-

01? THE V-NITED STATES.

qured to be by law., If it had been made under 18M
colour of law; ahd not according to law, it wouldi
have been void. The appointment, moreover,
.v.
was entire, iot divided, or in parts;'- nor, as
respected the bond, was it susceptible of division.
The obligation of the bond, therefore, was, thatas long as Ustick should continue, to act under
that identical appointment, under the very deed
which had been sealed and delivered by Miller to
Ustick, so long, and no longer, Stewart would be
responsible for Ustick'6 conduct.
What is -the legal import and meaning of the
contract thus entered into?
1. As the appointment was by deed, and was required by law to be by deed, -and as it is recited
to have been already made, it follows, that it had
already all the' requisites of a perfect legal deed;
that it had been signed, sealed, and delivered,
and all was executed and done. This is not denied to be as true in fact, as it is in law.
2. That nothing remained to be done. The
whole terminated in the execution .of the bond;
the state of the appointment was irrevocably fixed
by it. If blanks had been left, to be afterwards
filled, it might be deemed evidence of authority
to fill them, from all doncerned, and, th6refore,
prove consent,' and relate baik.
3. That, the reference in the bdfi" being to the
identical deed, thus perfected, Stewart. became a
party to the deed, as.much as if lie bad sigped it;
had an interest in itand it was a part of hi&;contract, that it should not-be alaered, because it was
his contract.
VOL. IX.
.88

E1ASEN. THE SiMREM

1498
1824.

COURT

.,These, then, arethe rights.of the parttie6, and
their obligations towards each other, as established
by themselves.
S The plea aversi that after .al this, abd before
'Ustick had acted under the deed, of appointment,
M]Killer, with the assent of Ustick,, altered the appointment, in a-material part, and that Ustick
Atcted under such-altered or new ippointment, all
which is confessed by the demurrer.
1.. We cbntend, that Miller. was disdharged, by
the alteration of the deed being made without his
consent. A deed is avoided by rasure, interlineation, or alteration, .in a material pat, unless a

memorandum thereof be made at the time 'of execution, prd attestation.b This is, unquestionably
the rule; -and it-is for those who claim the benefit
of an elception, to show that it. is an excepted
ease. Now, it Is clear tht the deed in question
was altered; after the execution, in a material
'art; andit follows, of course, that'itis avoided.
If.the deed'is avoided, the obligation is at an end.
Itnay be. supp.9sed, that the alteration here is
-mwtkAtei.al;. a. suggestion, the value of which,
* as regards a surety, will'be considered hereafter.
But the inquiy,. in'such cases, isnot.whether the
altration is mat.ria but whether it is'in a matd,z4 yart. The inquiry nevei can -be, whether
the alteratimniahaten4l. ;for no alteration ban be
d'1- DLW. 67.

"j 2B. Com. 308.
on Bijll,

MLV- P; 267. -$Up 68, 69.

1so. and COMajere ciwd.

Chitly

OF THE UNITED STATES.

said to be material, if you can.perceive that it has 1824.
been made, and how. An interlineation can never Miller
be material, for it may always be rejected. It is
V.
never incunbent upon the party, therefore, to Stewart.
show that he has been injured, or might htave been
injured; or that, in the particular case, the alteration is material. The principl in question is
founded in 'policy, and intended to preserve the
solemn evidences of transactions among men, by
denouncing every alteration, as unhallowed and
forbidden.
But it is contended, that an alteration, by consent of the parties, does not vitiate.a
Suppoae the position, for 'the present, to be
correct; then, as' it' is eohsent which neutralizes
the-poison of thie alteratiori, the effect- will only
be co-extensive with the cause. It is not vitiated
as to him who consents; .but how stands it as to
others? It produces its or inarylegat consequence.'
It is, indeed, conceded, that if the contract is put
an ena to, or alered, the surety is discharged.
It is coneeded, too, that if the guaranty extends
to part only, and that part is altered, the surety is.
discharged. But, it is contended, that if the guaranty be for part only, and other, parts be altered,
that does not discharge the surety. For this, no
authority is cited, but.the case in- 1 T. R. 391.
.(note,) which has no analogy. That was simply
a 2 Lev. 35.

Shep. 68

6 Mass. ReP. 539.

2 Cr. 626."

b Moore, 5a7. 2. Lev. 35. 4 Joliy. Rep. 54. 58, 59. 4
Granch, 60.

CASES iN THE 'SUPREME COURT

185.
1Millei
V.
v.

a question of intertior, or of the true inferpr otation of the surety's undertaking.
We answer, then, (.)

That the proposition is

a very questionable one. If there'be one contract,
consisting of parts, and, the whole contract being
recited in the engagement of the surety, as the
ground and consideration of his .undertaking, he
engages for a part, the whole is to stand, or he
cannot be charged.' Else the Court must, 'in
every case, undertake to decide, not only upon
-the, dependence and, connexion of the -parts, but
how far they entered into, the views of the surety.
(2.) It is not the case here. Ther 'undertaking
was for the whole deed, as it originally stood,
ahjd an addition is afterwards made to ii. If the
appointment had been for nine townships, and
the bond for eight of them, it' would have been
somewihatsuch a case. But' could the deed, in
that case, have. been altered.by striking out the
ninth? The only. qustion, then, is, whether this

alteratiohwas in a mateiialpart of the deed; for
it is admitted, that it was done without the eonsent or knowledge of Stewart.* It was evidently
a- material part, and, indeed, thie most material
part, of the. appointment. It was, -therefore,
ivoided4s againsi all but those who consented.
2. Admitting .the consent of Miller and - f
Ustick to be good, and binding between themselves, what is the legal operation uf their conduct? We contend, that itput an end to'the deed
which previously'existed, and created a new deed.
Was the. de~d, after the -alteration, the same

'

OF THE.UNIED STATES.

701.

deed as before the alteration, -orwas it a differ-. 1824-.
ent deed ? If it was a different deed; lb dn, what
v.
took place was equivalent to a surrender, a new
6tewart,
it
That
delivery.
new
a.
and
acknowledgment,
was a different deed, is manifest, because it
comprehended more than the first., Yet it was
an entire deed, and the Whole was one single
appointment, undivided and indivisible. - The
first was also an- entire ded, and,- as we have
seen from the pleadings, was consummated by
delivery, and was in the possession of Ustick,
What was the date of the deed after the alteration?. Suppose.it had been done on two different days, which would have been the date? .It
cannot have two dates, because it is one deed,
A return for -alteration, and an acceptance aftef
alteration, is a surrender, for there must be a sutrender, to enable a second execution. It may be
admitted, that the deed might be pift in his hands
for a special purpose, -nd then it would not
be a surrender; as, to read it,-or to take a copy,
or the like. 'And this may be done by paroLO
A re-acknowledged deed dates from re-:acknowledgmefit.b It cannot be divided, because it is an
entire deed. The latest -act,! therefore,. will give
date to the whole; The appointment after the
alteratioti, then, is not the appointment for which
the defendant-wai bound.
3. This is the case of a surety. a Co. Lift. 2S2. (a.)
b Eppes v7 Raidolph, ,2.CaI, 125.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.1824.
It is no answer to a'surety, to say that the
%alteration
Mear. termine is not material. He has a right to deStewart

for himself whether he will or will
not

consent to the alteration ; whether' lI thinks it
material or immaterial. Suppose he- had been
consulted, and refused his consent, no matter
from what motive. Not consulting him, is, at least,
equivalent to refusal. Who can tell what considerations might havejistly influenced him ? But
the great objection to. any latitude is tlhis, that if
the narrow limits, defined by numerous and uniform decisions, be not adhered to, there will be
ho limit at all. The limit is this: no power of
man, oi circumstances, can alter your engagement.'
You.know exactly the extent of the engagement
you enter into., There will be no"eqiuity against
you, no intendwent or legal c6nstruction. A
surety cannot be held beyond the precise terms of
his agreement." It is upon. the basis thus 6stablished, that suretyship stands, and it would not
stand without it. It is a,needful, but' it is alWays a perilous undertaking; and its perils most
frequently overwhelm those whom one could wish
to see saved,.. the generous. add the humane.
It cannot be neomsary or politic to 'increase its

dagers.
.,z ch 161h.

Mr. Justice SToRY 66livered the opinion of the
Court, and, after stating the case, proceeded as
follows:
-Nothing c t bq tearer,'both upon principle and
a 1 .inea' lEr.1. 1OJohns. Rep. i89,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

709

authority, than the doctrine, that the liability of 1824.
a surety is not to be extended, by implication,-be- ,,v.
yond the terms of his contract. To the extent
Stewrt
circumstances,
thb
under
and
and in the manner,
pointed out in his obligation, he is bound,- and no
farther. It is not sufficient that he May sustain
no injury by a change in the contract, .oi that it
may even be for his behefit. He has a right to
stand upon the Very terms of his'contract; and if
he-does not assent to any variation of itN and a variation is made,iv.is iatal. And Courts of equity,
as well as of law, have been in the constant habit
of scanning- the- contracts of sureties with considerable strictness. The- class of casis which
have been cited at-the bar, where persons have
been bound for the good conduct of olerks of merchants, .and other .persons, illustrate this position.
The whole series of them, from Lord Arlington
v. Merrick, (2 iSaund. 412.) down to that of
Pearsall v. Sumnzersett, (4 Taunt. 593.)' proceed upon the-ground, that the underthking of the
surety is to receive a strict interprettion, and is
.not to be extended beyond 'the fairscope of its
terms. Therefore, where an indemnity bond is
given to partners, by name, it has donstantly been
held, that the undertaking stoppdd upori the admission of a new partner.- And the only case,
that of Barclay v. Lucas, (I T. R. 291. note a.)
inwhich a more extensive construction is supposed
to have been given, confiims the general rule;
for ihat turned upon the circumstance, thtit the
security was given to the house, as a banlkinghouse, and thence an intention was inferred, that -

164

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

the parties intended to cover all losses, notwitha change of partnerh in the house.
Now, what is the purport of the terms of the
present condition ? The recital stated a special
appointment, which. had then been made' by Miller, of his deyuty for eight townships, particularly
named. It was not a case of several distinct appointments-for. each township, but a'single and
entire appointment for all the, townships; and the
condition is, that Ustick has, and "shall continue,
truly and faithfully ,to discharge the dities. of oaid"
.. poitment, according to law." Of what up.*Pintment? -Plainly the appointment stated'in the.
recital, to which the condition refers, and to which
itjis tied up.; that is -to gay, the appointment alreadymade and executed foi the eight townships , If
this be the -true construction of the conditions and,
ir4ems impossible to doubt-it, then the ohiy hMquiry that remains is, Whether any money, thack
counted, for.was received -under that appointmerit
.Td this the plea answers in the- negative,,. tinlos
he subseqtient alteration of the' instrument ovd,.
afed i legal chan'ge in the appointment. To the
consideration of this' points thereforei'the attentionof the Court will be addressed.'
•And, in the first plule; -dpon.pinciple, how doe3
the,case.stand ? Cdn'.it -be affirmed, that the alte,
rxiti!: Wrought no change in the..appointmeot.?
Thiwill scarcely bepretended. In point of fact,
j.
-the first appbitmef, was for eight townships:oniy
the alteration niadb it an- appointment foi nihew
townshiw.- It is nbt like the case wHere an ap-.
pointment ii Inade for eight towishipEl, aend an-

jastanding

v.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

other distinct appointment is made for the ninth;

705
L24

for then there are, in legal contemplation, two dis-

V.
tinct and separate appointments. But. here, the
original appointment is extended ; it was one and st',yo
entire, when it included eight townshin-s: it is one
and -entire, when it includes the nine. - Can-it:then
be legally affirmed to remain the same appointment, when it no longer has the same boundariee?.
An appointment for A. is not the same as an appointnent for A. and B. In short, the very circumstance, that there is an alteration in the appointment, ex vi tfmini, imports that its identity
is gone. If an original appointment is altered by
the consent of the parties to the instrumenlt, that
very consent implies, that something. is:added to
or taken from it. The parties agree, that it shall
no longer remain as it was a.t first, but that t4e
same instrument shall be, not Whbat it was..lbut
what the alteration -makes it. It shall not tonstitute two separate and distinct instruments, but o.0

consolidated instrument. A familiar case wilf esplain this. A. gives a-note to B. for 500"doitaras;
the',arties afterwards agree to alter it to 600 dol.
]are, In 'uch case, the instrumdnt remains 4Anjgle-;
it is not a note for 500 dollars, and -also for 600
dollars, involving separate and distinct-liabilitieS,
but-an entire contract for 600 dollars; and tho-okligation to pay the-500 dollars is- merged and .extinguished in-the obligation to pay.the 600 dollars.
Tobrinf the. case nearer-to the present : suppose
ihere was a-bond given- as. collateral security,.to
pay the note of 500 dollars ;jCwill scarcely be pretended, that the alteration would not extinguish
VoL. IX.

89

706

70(ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. the liability under the bond. The instrument
%would,
indeed, remain, but it would no longer posM illerI
v.
sess its former obligation and identity. Nothing
Stewart. can be better settled, than the doctrine that, if an
obligation be dependent on another obligation,
(and, by parity of reasoning, upon the legal existence of another instrument,) and the latter be discharge.f, or become: void, the formdr is also discharged. iShepardiinhis Touchstone, (p. 394.)
puts the case, and illustrates it, by adding, "as, if
the condition of an obligation be, .to perform the
covenants of an indenture, and afterwardthe covenants be discharged, or become void , by this
means, the obligation is discharged, and gone for
ever." It is not denied at the bar, that the same
would be the legal operation in the present case, if
there had been an actual revocation of the first
appointment, or an extinguisbment of the instrument of appointment. But the stress of the argument is, that here there was an enlargement,
and not an extinguishment, of the appointment ;
that, the consent of the immediate parties being
given to the alteration, it remained in full force,
with all its original validity, as to the eight townships. We cannot accede to this view of the case.
After the alteration was made, it is, as between the
parties, to be considered by relation back, either
as an original appointmgent for 'he nine townships;
or as a new appointment for the nine townships,
from the time of the alteration. It is immaterial
to the present decision, whether it be the one or
the other, for in either case-it is not that appointment which the defendant, Siewart, refekred to in

OF'THE UNITED STATES.

707

the condition of the bond, and in respect to which 1824.
he contracted the obligation. It is no answer, to
say, that it is not intended to make him liable fbr
V.
any money, except what was collected in the eight
.
townships. He has a right to stand upon the terms
of his bond, which confine his liability to money
received uqder an appointment fbr eight townships ; and the -pleadings admit, that none was received, until the appointment was altered to nine.
It will scareely be denied; that if, up9n the agree-ment to include the ninth township, the original
instrument had been destroyed, and a-new instrument had been executed, the obligatory force of the
bond'would, as to the surety, have been gone. And,
in reason or in law, there is no difference between
that and the case at bar. The alteration made
the instrument as much a new appointment, as if
it had been written a.nd sealed anew. JIt is,
not
very material, to decide whether the alteration operated by way of surrender, or as a revocation; or
as a new appointment superseding the other. It
was, to all intents and purposes, an extinguishment
of the separate existence of the appoidtmerqt for
the eight townships.
This point is susceptible of still farther illustration, from considerations of a more technical nature. - The act of Congress of the 22d of July,
181-, ch. 16. see. 20. under which this appointment was -made, provides, "that each Collector
shall be authorized to. appoint, by an instrument
of writing under his hand and seal, as many deputies as he may think proper," &c. The appointment must, therefore, be by deed , and th6

708

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

effect of an alteration or.interlineation of a deed,
is to -be decided by the-prindples of the common
Miller
v.
law. Now,-by the common law, the alteration or
Stewar. interlineation of a deed, in a material part, at least,
by theholder, without the consent of the other party, pso facto, avoids the deed.. It is thecon sent,
therefore, that upholds the deed after.buch alteration, •or' interlineation. The reason is, that the
deed is no longer the same. .The alteration makes'
it a different deed; it speaks a different language;
it infers a different obligation. It must,.then, take
effect asta new deed, and that can only be by the
consent of the party bound by it' Whether by
. such conseni, the deed takes effect by relation
back to the time of original execution, or only from
the time of the alteration, need not be matter of
inquiry, because such relation is never permitted
to affect the, rights or interests of third persons,
and cannot change the posture of the present case.
If the deed, after the alteration, is permitted to
.have relation back, it is not the same deed of appointment-recited in. the cdndition, and to which
the obligation is limited, for that is an appoint-.
ment for eight townships. If it. has nowech relaion, then it is a deed of appointment made subtsquent to the bond, and of course not included in
its obligation.* It cannot be, at one and the same
timei a deed for eight, and also a deed for nine
towfashipti; and the. very circumstance, that it is
theone, excludes the possibility of assuming it as
the other. In truth, the assent of the parties to
ihe.alteration, carries with it the necessary implication, that it shall no •longer be deemed an:np-

.1824.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

709

pointment for eight townships only.; and the same 1824,
consent of parties which created, is equally potent
V.
in dissolving the deed, and changibg its original
obligation. It is no objection, that to constitute a stewr.
new deed, a redelivery is necessary; for if it be
so, the consent to the alteration is, in law, equivalent to a redelivery. Nor is it necessary, tbhgt a
surrender or revocation should be by an instrument to that effect. It may be by matter inpais,
or by operation of law. Every erasure and interlineation in the deed, by the obligee or appointee,
without consent, is a surrender; and a revocation
may be implied by law., The passage cited at the
bar, from Co. Lit. 232. (a.) establishes, that if the
feoffee, by deed of land, grants his deed by parol
to the feoffor, it is a surrender of the property, as
well as of the deed, And if, in this case, the deed
of appointment had been delivered .up to the Collector, it would, at once, have operated as a surrender by the Deputy, and a revocation by the
Collector.
An objection has been urged af the bar, against
this doctrine, that the act of Congress, giving the
authority .to the Collector, to a-)loint deputies,
to revoke the powers of. any
aso authorizes him ',
•
deputy, giving public notice thereof in that portion of the District assigned to such. deputy."
Hence it is argued, that no revocation can be, unless by public notice. But this is certainly not the
true interpretation of the act. The very terms
suppose, that the revocatiQn is already made, as
-between the paries, and the notice is to be given
of the fact. The object of the Legislature was,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

t824. to protect the public from the mischief of pay\,,-,,ments to the deputy sifter his powers are revolted.
Miller
V.
It requires pullic notice. to be given of the revost'wart,

oaion, so that no future imposition shall be prac-

tised;, and if the Collector should make a private
revocation, without any public notice, the logal
conclusion would be, that all payments made to
his deputy, in ignorance of the revocation, ought
to be-held valid; for no man is entitled to make
his- own wrongful omission of duty a foundation
of right.- Btit, as betweei the parties, a revocatibn or surrender,, if actually made, would be, to
all intents and purposes, binding between them,
and release the sureties to the bond 'from all future responsibility.
Upon the whole, the opinion of the Court iss
that the fourth plea in bar is good, and ,that the
demurrer thereto ought to be overruled; and. this
opinion is to be certified to the Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN. My brother ToDD; and'
myself, are of opinion, that the merits of this
cause-bave been misconceived; the points on which
itturns'misapprehended, and the law of razures,
if correctly-laid down according to the law of the
present day, erroneously applied to this cause,
The-condition of Stewart's bond to the plaintiff,
recites no particular deed of appointment, under
which I atick was constituted Deputy Collector;
nor is there an iota in -the bond, or in the'declaration; thai can identify the deed set forth in the
plea, with the -deed under which Ustick held his
deptitafion. The -condition of the bond simply

OF THE UNITED STATES.

0411.

states, "Whereas E. M., Collector, as aforesaid, 1624.
hath, by virtue of authority vested in him by the
v.
laws of the United States,. appointed U. Deputy
Stewrt.
deed
a
thafspecifies
plea
the
is
It
&c.
Collector,"
of a particular date, and then proceeds to set forth
a razure in avoidance of. that deed, but it contains
no averment that the deed ; so set forth is the
same under which U. helt the deputation under
the plaintiff, referred .to in the 6ondition. That
the plea is -faulty, and, even with the averment,
might have been the subject of a special demurrer,
cannot now be doubted; for it amounts to the
general issue; and the general issue *vad the legitimate.plea in this case. (Pigot'scasei and passim.) But, we also hold it bad, in -itspresent form,.
upon a general demurrer; for, unless .the deed,
so pleaded, was duly identified by the pleadings,
with that under which Ustick.was constituted deputy, the plaintiff was not bound- to -answer t.
We cannot conceive how the defendant can have"
judgment in the present state of- the pleddings,
unless under the idea that the "demurrer cures the
failure to identify thedeeds. This, however, cannot be sustained, since the want of identification
is, in itself; . a sufficient ground of. demurrer.
Indee4, we see no-sufficient -ground.for admit.ing that the condition of the bond implies a deputation by deed at all. It is true, that the 20th
- section of. the. act under which this Collector was
*appointed,*authorizes "him to appoint deouties,
Oader his and and sei; ind,, as far as. as necessary to.- enable the- deputy to, act against individuals,- unquestionably the solemnities of a deed

CASES IN THE SUPREIME COURT

1824.
Miller

St,.
St"rart.

were requisite to constitute him a Deputy Collector. But the demand'in this action is for money
received by him, and not paid over; and, surely,
a deputation of a less formal kind, would have
enabled him to bind his principal as to the actual
receipt of money; so that the words of the condition do not necessarily imply a deputation by
deed. He is expressly authorized, in this 20th
section, to act for himself in collecting the revenue, and he could, therefore, act by his servant
or deputy, constituted in a less solemn way than
by deed, so far as to involve himself with the government.
But if a deed is to be implied from the. condition, surely not this particular deed; and though
a deed, of a date antecedent to the bond, is to be
implied, it may have preceded it by a month,
andl yet the act and the condition of the bond
both be complied with., But what form shall be
presumed or implied to the deed? Why may it
not have been several as to each county, or have
comprised two or more? and why may not a
dozen deeds, of the very date and form of this,
have been in existence at the same time? A defendant who, like the present, places his defence
upon the very highest stretch of legal rigour, cannot complain, if he has the same measure meted
out to himself.
But if this ground is to be gotover,, and we are
to consider the bearing of the facts pleaded, upon
the law of the case, we then say that they imply
no revocation of the deputatioi to Ustick, against
which this defendant entered into the.contract of

OF THE UNITED STATES,

indemnity. It is the intent that gives effect to the 1824.
acts; of parties; nothing was farther from the Mtiller
minds of the parties here, than the distinction of
V.
the power of Ustick, as to the eight counties, at Stewart.
the time of this interlineation. Tlte plea avers
no
suck intent, and as well might a delivery of
a deed for perusal be tortured intd a surrenler
and extinction of.it, and its return into a revocation, as the acts"f these parties respecting this
interlineation, be construed into a revocation and.
redelivery. Nan constat, from any thing that appears in the plea, thaf the paper ever passed from
the hands of the party legally holding it. It was
unnecessary, upon the facts stated, that it should
so Dass; in fact, no redelivery is averred, in the plea,
nor any one of the formalities necessary to reexecution. It cannot be denied, that this part of
the defen.e savours too much of a perversion of
the solemnities and rules of the laNv. It is a catch
upon the unwary, an effort to attach to men's acts
consequences which are directly negatived by their
intentions.
As it the idea of the identity of this instrument
being destroyed by the interlineation, we consider
it .as springing out of an incorrect view .of the nature of the instrument and of the circumstances
that fix its identity. -It
is not one entire thing, but
a several deed for each county. kdeputation as
to-the county of A., is not a deputation as to the
c.ounty of B., although written on the same paper,
and comprised within the same words; it is as
much a several deed, as to each county, as if writ-.
VOL. IX.

QD

714
1824.
Mil
MIiller
v.
Stewart,

CASES IN *THE SUPREME CO1rRT

tel on several sheuis of paper; ag much ds a policy of .insurancer is the several contract of each
underwriter; or as ,. bond would be the -several
deed of as many individuals as executed it, if it
be so expressed, making them, if-such be the letter
of it, severally liable, and for various sums, no one
for another. Interlining another county, then,
left it still the original deed,. as -to edch .C-imiy
taken 'severally, and only operated as the, dregion
of a new power as to another county, If, in faet, as
there is no averment of a subs.equorit delivery it
.was aiy"thing more than a mere nttgaty' act.
Such is certainly the good sense of the law upon
the s ject; and it is suipported; we conceive, by
respectable opinions, and by adjudged 'cases.
Chief Baron Gilbert, in treat'ing on this topic
.observes, "but'if anymmaterial part of the contract be added after sealing, and deliveryi a, if
A., with a blank left after his name; be bound to
B., and arter C. is added as a joint obl~gbr,
this does not avoid the'bond. becaus this -does
not alter the contrqct. of A.; for he wa" boWd to
pay the whole money -without such additiom"''
And the case of Zouch v. Clay, whleh he qtotes,
as reported in Ventris, undoubtedly sustiains hrs
doctrine ; for there the Oourt overruled thb
plea of nmn estfactum on the intefliaeation, on the
the ground that the bond remained the same as
to him.
In this" case, the bond emphatically remtined
a l Lofe8 Gilb. '111. Ventris, 185; The note at the end of
Pigot's case 11 Coke, also recognisesthi distinction.

.OF THE UNITED STATES.

the same as to this defendant, for he was still liable 1824.
only as to the eight counties, and no more;
and 1 /Miller
"
was so .guarded, as to make it impossible that the
V.
Stewart
could
counties
other
thousand
a
of
interlineation
alter or increase his liability, since the namee of
the counties are inserted in the conditidrx specifically. As to his liabili'y, and as to its influence
upon the power conferred in the Big:ht counties,
this interlineation was altogeiher insignificant. no
more than a dash of the pen, and could have done
him no more injury.
There is nothing in the argument which would
-attach importance to it, opa the ground of produing difficulty and confusion-it has been said,
4ven impracticability, in rendering the accounts of
this Deputy. It is begging the question, and
urging the very thing as a difficulty, which the
plaintiff proffers to execute. He claims a sum
collected in the eight counties specified, and no
more ;-,and unless lie can prove so much coilected
in the eight original counties, it is very clear, that
he cannot have a verdict. But is he to be prejudged ? is he not to be permitted to make out the
case which he offers to prove?
Nor is .tliere any more weighi in the argument,
that, "although the defendant may have beeL
willing to indemnify against eight counties, it does
not follow, that he would undertake to indemnify
against nine." No one pretends to chargehim
with nine counties. Surely there was, nothing in
the contract; to preclude the plaintiff from extending his deputation to this individual over his whole

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

district, had he thought proper. Could a separate deed, as to the ninth county, have been pleadMiller
V. ed.as a defe'nce?
stert.
There is no charge of positive iijury in thifi
plea, it will be observed ; nor do the facts adroit
a suspicion of fraudulent intention. -The sole offect .of the interlineation, was to confide, in U., to
collect in"
another county, without giving security.
The defence rests upon certain inferendes from, or
consequences imputed to, the naked act of interlining the word " Willingborough," wvithout even
averring the acts necessary to make the instrument a deed as to that county, or the intent to re-'
voke or re-execute the deed as to the residue
To us it appears, that it ought no more to affect the rights-of the parties, thian infterlininig the
name of'a region beyond .the Atlantic, or a mere
dash of the pen.'
On the subject of razuies we would remark, it
is to be regretted that thid plea had not been spe-'
cially demurred to, that the question might have
been taken from the Court abd sent tb the jury.
There is -nodoubt, that they might have found
this deed several in its 'nature:a ,to each 'county,
and, therefore, unaffected by the addition of abother. The" tendency of the decisionE hue been,
to carry such questions to that tribunal;. and; rotwithstanding some contrariety of dicta, "it
is now
clearly settled, that 'a razure must make a deed
void, or it is immaterial; and, therefore,, no. factum is held to be the proper plea. Chief
Justice Holt has 6eelared any other form of taking
advantage of a razure impertinent; (6 Hod. 215.)

OF THE UNITED STATES.

717

and the ritle-Ib not now to be doubted. But as to 1824.
the principle upon-which a razure avoids -a deed, Mller
V.
it is not too much to ay, that the law of the subject appears to havegot into some confusion. Stewar.
Modern decisions, particularly of our own Cours,
*lean against the excessive rigour with which
some-writets etnd some cases, disfigure-it. In the
case of tIhe United States v. Cutts;(I Gall. 69.) a
bbnd; that had bedn cancelled and mutilated, the
seal torn awayby the joint act o' the defendant
and the plaintiff's bailee, was still held, and rightly,
held, to be sustainable-as the deed of the party. In
,'the case of peak et'al.v. UnitedStates,(9Granck,
28.) - bond was sustained, notwithstanding the
striking out of one joint and several co-obligor,
-in the absence of the others, And the inseition of
another.- A'nd.so, as to revenue bonds, there is not
a 'Court-of the .United States Which has not sustained them against the plea ofiztn estfactum, notwithstdnding that both sum and parties have been
inh'rted after the execution by one'of the obligots,.
and this, in his absence, because the contract was
notalteredi and the good sense of the law prevailed againSt its technicalities.
There is a- greatpaucity of decisionps, in modern
times, oifthe subject.of razures and interlineatiol1.
If we mout-.to it§ origin, -we find it, in the YeurBooks, and -in-Perkins, who cites thdm, given as
the, ground -of suspirion and' inquiry. And so,
unquestionably, it ought to be, and frauds or mutilationp,.to.which the parties having the custody of
Sdeeds-are::
not bb& taetaken too
-ce-vd.
: rivyti-to
strongly

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
e
M iller

V.
Stewurt.

against them. But when wve .encounter' the dectrine, as laid down in Pigot's.case, "th a t when a
deed is altered in a point material, by a stranger,
without the privity of the obligee, even by drawing a pen through the midst of a material word,
that it shall be void," without reference to the
fraud, privity, or gross negligence of the obligor,
it certainly is time to pause; and.I highly approve
of the hesitation of my brother STORY, ipCu1tt's
case, as to the authority of Pigot's case. As an
adjudication, the value of that case should be limited to the single point, "that an immaterial interlineation, without the privity or command of the
obligee, does not avoid the bond." The case,
does not call for -the decision of another point,
for it is upon a-special verdict, and that the only
question submitted. Yet, the Reporter, who seldom lets an opportunity escape him, that furnishes
an apology for exqmplifying his indefatigable research, makes it authority for a score of, positive
decisions, and the introducdion to a mass of law,
upon questions totally distinct. But it should be
noted of this learned Judge, that his reports, like
the text of Littleton, are only'to be considered as
the occasion or excuse for displayipg his acquirements in the law learning of his day, and expressing his opinions upon juridical topics.
It is certainly true, that some of the decisions
in the books have carried this doctrine a great
Way. As, for instance, the case of the lease of
the Dean of Pauls, in which the counterpart ex-,
pressed a rent of 27 pounds, and the tenant al-

OF THE UIfTitD, STATES.

-

719

tered his deed from 26 to 27 pounds, to mke it 1824;
accord with the counterpart and thetrue contract. Aler
Yet it was held to av-did his Iease. (1 Boll. 27..
T.
.Cro. .Eliz. 627.) But the utmost that can be Stewart.
made of these cases is, that they apply to those
instances in which the deed'is, necessarily, an -entire -thing; and te reason assigned is,. that the
witness can uo. longer testify to the deed, as the
deed which -hesaw delivered. Surely this reason
is not applicable to the present case; for, let the
witness be'examined ilpon this instrument, as to
the county of A,, as introductory to the. Proof of
the money collected in A., and so on. as to the
counties B., C., andi D., and what is to prevent his
proving the execution of this deed? That which
may just as wel, have been executed in as many
detached -sheets of paper as there are counties,
.-ce-tainly has nothing of necessary entirety or indivisibility- in its nature. Any"other rule, as applied to -this case would, -we conceive, be permitting frauds. to be covered by a principle which
was intended to-prevent frauds.
Certificate for the defendant.

