OF THE UNITED STATES.

the pre-emption right depended, at the time his
entry was made. It gave him no rights vhich
were not under the control of -the Legislature,
and might not be defeated by an act giving the
pre-emptioner farther time to enter his warrant.
So far, then, as th6, decisions of Kentucky go,
they are rather in favour of the opinion, that the
original right of Harrison was preserved, notwithstanding the interval during which it was forfeited,

515
1824.
Love

v.
Sinms.

since the entry of the appellant was not made in

that interval.
The decree of the Circuit Court affirmed, with
cost.

[LoCAL LAw.1

LovE, Plaintiff in Error.
V.

Sirm~s's lessee, Defendant in Erroi.
A question, under the regisu'y acts of Tennessee, whetli r a juntor
conveyance registered, should take precedence of a prior unrcgi"
tered deed. Rdd. that the rmgiitry did not, uuder the circmwn
stances. vest the 111le agaiint the eder deed.

ERROR to the. Circuit Court of West Tennessee.

This cause was argued by Mr. Eaton far the Fdaesd.

516

-CASES IN THE SUPREME'COURT

1824.
Love

plaintiff in error,a and Mr. Harper, for the defendant in error.

V.

Simms.

Mr. Jus tice JonNso.N delivered the opinion of

March 1olh.

the Court.
This cause comes up from the Circuit Court for
the district of West Tennessee. The judgment
in that Court is in favour of the plaintiff in ejectment, and error is brought to reverse that .judgment, on the ground thai the Court below instruetcd the jury that the plaintiff there had the
better title, and- ought to recover. The facts of
the cause are exhibited in a bill of exceptions,
and, so far as are necessary to illustrate this
opinion,. may be stated thus:
One Stockly Donaldson obtained a grant of'
lands of the State of North Carolina, in that region of territory which lies west of the Cumberland mountain, and now composes a part of Wesi
Tennesse. This grant issued upon an entry
made in the office of John Armstrong.
After obtaining the patent, Donaldson executed.
a power of attorney to one Grant, to sell this
land, and Grant accordingly sold it to one Allison, and executed a conveyance to him in duo
form. This'deed bears date in 1795. But it appears, that two years previous to this sale -Donaldson himself had executed a title for the same
land to one Adair. And the plaintiff in ejeotment
now makes title through Allison, while the de-

a.He tited, Cro. Eiz. 321.

1 BUrr. 119.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

fendant protects himself under the conveyance to 1824.
Adair, but without connecting himself with it.
Uave
V.
If the case rested here, there would be no difSims.
ficulty in it; but, by the laws of North Carolina,
no deed passes an estate, unless it be recorded in
the county in which the land lies, and that within
twelve montha of its date. In this instance, the
subsequent deed claims precedence, on the ground
of prior registration, after the twelve months prescribed to the prior deed, and, of consequence,
at a time when the prior deed was supposed to be
altogether void, for want of registration.
On the point of registration the facts are these.
The act of 1715, which isthe registering act alluded
to, has been suspended, as to the limitation of time,
almost ever since its enactment. A similar provision in the land laws of that State, on the subject
of registering grants, has also been the subject of
a similar suspension. But as there was no County
Court embracing within its jurisdiction that region.of country in which this'land lay, a new provision is introduced into the suspending act of
1788, by which it is enacted, that persons owning
lands of this description, shall register them in
the ebunties in which they reside; and a proviso,
as to non-residents, is inserted, in these words:
"Provided always, that persons owning such lands
in this State, west of the Cumberland mountain,
and not residing therein, shall register their grants
for such lands in Hawkins county."
The holder of the juni6r conveyance from Donaldson, availed himself of this proviso, or (more
properly, speaking) enacting clause, and recordcd

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

it, with all his muniments of title. in Hawkins
77' county. This took place in the year 1797, but
S.. the defendant befow, the holder 'of the senior title
from Donaldson, did not record his title until the
Simms.
year 1806, when,.the State of Tennessee having
created a county embracing this land, he committed his deed to registration in the county where
the land lay; which was also done by the plaintiff
below, four years afterwards. If, then, the registration in Hawkins county was a valid registration,
aU-d the effect of it was to vest the estate, to the
prejudice of the prior conveyance from Donaldson,
the plaintiff had the better title, and the charge
was correct.
This question will now be examined.
It is obvious, that to attribute to the registration in Hawkins county the effect here contended
for, it is necessary,
1.To attach to the provisions of the 5th section
of the act of 1788, a variety of incidents, and to give
it a latitude of corfstruction which nothing but the
unequivocal intent of the Legislature could counteance. [he word land must be taken to mean
muniments of title ; the word grant, both patents
and mesne conveyances; and words of enactment,
which, in their direct and ordinary signification,
are solely imperative, must beb considered as importing a privilege or exemption. 'Besides which,
all the provisions of the 5th section of the' act of
1715, must be incorporated with the. 5th section
of that of 1788, in order to sustain the implication, that recording iA thawkins county shall make
the one valid, or the- failure to record in that place
1824.

519

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be fatal to the other. This view of the subject
would lead to a protracted and subtle discussion,
which the conclusions of this Court on other
points, render now unnecessary to be pursued ;

and the subject is only noticed, to avoid the implication, that this Court has acquiesced in such a
construction of the clause in question.
2. To give effect to the registration in Hawkins
county, it is also obvious, that the 5th section of
the act of 1788 must have. continued in force until
1797,1,when the deed to Allison was recorded in
that coubty. And this must either be inferred
from the words of the section itself, or must be the
effect of the subsequent reviving acts.
In their ordinary and direct signification, the
words of the section in. question certainly import
perpetuity; and did it' stand alone, such would
be the effect given to it, whether in its operation
it be considered imperative or remedial. But the
context necessarily limits its duration. Both the
title and preamble of the act, declare it to be to relieve persons, who would be sufferers from neglecting to record their muniments of title in due
time. And it would be hard to conceive a reason
why grants and mesne conveyances elsewhere,
should be forced upon record within a limited
time, and those for lands in this district of country left without limitation as to time. While there
was no office assigned for their registration, a'reason existed ; but that reason is taken away, when
we admit that a proper office was opened for that
purpose.
The question, however. does not rest herg ; a

1824.
Love

v.

Sims.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

recording law, unlimited in point of' time, and unaffected by penalties, is an absurdity, since it deLove
stroys its own views, when it leaves the individual
Simms. at large, to record or not, as he pleases. And if
an additional proof be wanting, to indicate the
sense of the Legislature in pasing this section of
the act of 1788, it is to be found in the reviving act
of North Carolina, of 1790, in which it is expressly declared, that the act of 1788 would expire, if
not then revived. The idea, therefore, of its being perpetual, in its own provisions, is rejected;
and it remains to inquire, whether it was continued in force up to 1797, when the deed to Allison
was recorded in Hawkins county. This must
depend upon the several reviving acts passed subsequent to 1788, And it is perfectly clear, upon,
collating those acts, that the 5th section of the
act of that year had expired, and was dropped, before Allison's deed was registered. In 1790, the
State of North Carolina passed a law, reviving, for,
two years, the act of 1788, with all its provisions ;
but the State of Tennessee had previously been
separated from North Carolina, and the provisions
of the 5th section of the act of 1788, appear never
to have been taken up in Tennessee.
It is nitnecessary, in arriving at this conclusion,
to examine whether the words of the section shall
be restricted to grants,or extended to mesne conveyances, or whether to deeds prior or subsequent.
In no point of view wifl this section sustain the registration ; for the deed is registeree as a mesne
conveyance, not a grant, properly so called, and
1824.

k

OF THE UNITED STATES.

must take effect under those legal provisions which 1824.
extend to mesne conveyances.
Love
The actwhich purports to reviv6 the act of 1788,
v.
is that of Tennessee, of 1794; and by that, the Simms.
right of recording out of the county where the land
lies, is wholly dropped. The general words of
the act of North Carolina, in 1790, are not adopted ; but the right of recording agai*n, is explicitly
brought back to the general policy of the country,
that of recording titles in the county where the
land lies.
The question will, no doubt, here occur, whether
the Legislature could have intended to impose this
duty, while there was no county, and- no Court, in
which such record could be made.
The answer is, that the question is here immaterial, sinz. it is enough for all the purposes of the
defendant below, if the obligation to. record did
not exist at all, until there was a county established ; but were it otherwise, the only question here
is, whether the provisions of the act of 1794, or
any other act prior to 1797, revives the supposed
right to record in Hawkins county; whether it
grants a privilege,* or imposes a duty, as to that
particular county, and the right of recording in any
other place than where the land lies.
The act of 1796, which is that under the immediate protection of which it is necessary that Allison's deed should be sustained in favour of the
plaintiff below, contains a simple revival of the act
of 1794, without any farther provision. Its-meaning and effect, therefore, must be read upon the
face of the latter act.
Vot.. IX.

66

W2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Le

Love

V.

Simms.

There were some other points made in the argument, which, as the cause must be sent back, it
if proper to notice.

At one, if not two periods, of the early history of

Tennessee, there occurred an interval of time, during which the suspending laws, as they are called,
did5 not exist, and that of 1715, of course, operated
upon all cases within it. That State passed from
the jurisdiction of North Carolina in 1790, but its
first territorial Legislature did not meet until 1794.
By a provision of. the act of separation, the laws
of North Carolina became the laws of Tennessee,
until repealed by the Legislative authority of the
ceded teiritory, of, it is presumed, until they
expired by 1 eir own limitations. Whether an hiatus. occur; d in these suspending laws, at the interval of-time, is immaterial in this cause, since the
junior deed did not come into existence until after
the passage of (he act of 1794. But between the
sessions of 1800 and 1801, there did occur a chasm,
in these suspending laws, which chasm, the defendant in error contended in argument, put an end
to the interest claimed under the prior deed altogether.
It is obvious, that this argiiuient-assumes for its
basis the supposition, that the registration of his
deed in Hawkins county was valid.and effectual-to
this-purpose. The opinion has been expressed,
that.1he 5th section of the act of 1788, was not in
force at the time when that registration was made.
.And the Court now recurs to the subject, only -to
avoid the imputation of having admitted the conclusion in favour of the defendant in error, had the

OF THE UNITED STATES.2

523

registration in Hawkins county been made while 1824.
the law was in force. We give no opinion on the
V.
operation of the act of 1715, on titles to those
Simms.
impossiwas
it
lands which were so situated that
ble for the provisions of the act of 1715 to be complied with; that is, those lands which lay in no
designated county. In the present instance, the
land in controversy was not included within a
As both deeds
county line, until the year 1801.
were registered in the proper county, after the
chasm occurred, they are both equally affected
by it ; and it has no bearing upon their interests,
as made out under the registration where the land
lies.
Another point made in argument, was, that the
defendant could not protect himself under the title
to Adair, without connecting himself with it. Upon
recurring to the words of the, charge, we find it to
be, that the plaintiff below had the better title.
From this, an inference undoubtedly arises, that
if the defendant below had exhibited'a better title,
the plaintiff could not recover, even though the defendant did not show that better title to be transmitted to himself.
Since the registration in the county where the
land lies, and which is the only registration deemed valid in this cause, gave the prior registration
to ,the prior deed, and thus took away every claim
to precedence from the deed under which the
plaintiff below made title, the Court must be adjudged to have erred in its charge upon that subject. On the implied proposition, that the better
title might be set up, as a shield against the plain-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

tiffs recovery in ejectment, even though the defendant does not show that better title in himself,
Love
V. we will liriit ourselves to the following remarks.:
Simms.
The rule of law, that a plaintiff must recover
by the strength of his own title, and not the weakness of his adversary's, must be limited and explained by the nature of each case as it arises.
Since the rule is universal, that a plaintiff in ejectment must show the right to possession to be in
himself positively, and it is immaterial as to his
right of recovery, whetfier it be out of the tenant
or not, if it be not in himself, if follows that a
.tenant is 'always. at liberty to prove the title out
of She plaintiff, although he does not prove it to
exist in himself. Possible difficulties may be suggested as to the application of this principle to
mere tort feasors or forcible disseisors; but besides. that such cases, being 'generally provided
for under statutes of forcible entry, must be of
rare odcurrence, it is time enough, when they
occur, to consider what exceptions they present to
the general principle.
The last point proper to be noticed, is'that
made in the former argu*ment, on the question of
revocation of the power of attorney under which
the junior deed was executed.
This was supposed to. be virtually revoked by
the prior conveyance of the same land, executed by Donaldson, who gave the power, And
this, on general principles, is unquestionably correct. Whatever liabilities, for damages or other-'
wise, Donaldson might have incurred by not revoking the power by due notice, it is unques-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tionable, that a power must cease and determine
•when there is nothing left for it to act upon. It
will be seen, however, that this question resolves
itself into the principal question in the cause, to
wit, whether the first deed ever was a subsisting
valid conveyance. If it was not, then the ground
of the argument fails, for the estate had not, in
effect, ever passed out of Donaldson; and if it
was, then its effect is complete, without recurring
to the ground of revocation.
Judgment reversed.
This cause came on to be heard,
&c. On consideration whereof, this Court is of
opinion, that the said Circuit Court erred in instructing thejury "that the lessor of the plaintiff
had the better title to the land in controversy."
It is, therefore, ADJUDGED and ORDERED, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this case be,
and the same is hereby reversed and annulled: and it is further ORDFRED. that said cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court, with instructiorfs to issue -a vnire facias de izovo.
JUDGMENT.

1824.
LOYe

v.
Simmi

