OF TIE UNITED STATES.

603

1824.
Exparte
[PATENT.

PRACTICE.]

Woed..

Exparte WooD & BRUNDAGE.
Under the 10th section of the patent act of the 21st of Februay,
1793, ch. 11. upon granting a rule, by the Judge of the District
Court, upon the patentee, to show cause why process should not
issue to repeal the patent, the patent is not repealed, de facto, by
making the rule absolute; but the process to be awarded is in the
nature of a scire facias at common law, to the patentee to show
cause why the patent should not be repealed, with costs of suit;
and upon the .return of such process, duly served, the Judge is to
proceed to stay the cause, upon th.e pleadings filed by the parties,
and the issue joined thereon. If the issue be an issue of fact, the
trial thereof is to be by a jury; if an issue of law, by the Court,
as in other cases.
In such a case, a record is to be made of the proceedings, antecedent
to the rule to show cause why process should notissue to repeal the
patent, and upon which the rule it founded.

This cause was argued by Mr. Haines,n in sup- .Marc n1.
port of the rule, and by.Mr. Emmec, against it.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the aiar)c
Court.

The District Judge of the southern district of
New-York, under the 10th section of the patent
act, of the 21st of February, 1793, chapter 11.,
granted a rule'upon Charles Wood and Gilbert
a He cited Stearns v. Barrett, 1 Mason's Rep! 153. 8 Mod.
28. 1 Salk. 144.
b He cited i U. S. Law Journql, 88. Ez V ate O'Reilly, I
Vea.jr. i2. Ez.arteFox, I Ves.4Beameq, 07. Jeffiersons
Case, 2 Saim& 15.

l7.

'604
1824.
.

lx parte

Wocd.

CASES IN THE SUPREMJE COURT

Brundage, at the instance and complaint of Jethro
Wood, to show cause why process should not issue against them, to repeal a patent granted to
them for a certain invention, in due form of law;
and upon hearing the parties, no gufficient cause
being, in his judgment, showil to the contrary, he,
on the 2d day of July, .1823;passed an order, that
the said rule be. made absolute, and that the said
patent be repealed ; and that process issue to repeal the said patent, and for the costs of the complainant.. The patentees, by their counsel, moved
the. Court to direct a record to be made of the
whole proceedings, and that process, in the nature
of a"scirefadas,should bejssued,. to try the validity of the patent. The Court denied the motion,
"upon the ground that these were summary prozeedings, and that the patent Was repealed defa .to, by making the rule absolute ; and that the proeess to be issued, wee not in the nature of a scirc
facias, to try the validity-of the patent, but m&ely
process repealing-the patent.
A motion was made, on a~former, day of this
ternf, in behalf of the patentees, for .a rIle upon
the district Judge, to show cause why a mandabnus
should not issue from this Court, -direoting him to
make t record of the proceedings in the cause, and
to issue a sre fiacias,.tor the purpose, of trying
the validity of th6 patent.. The rule having been
granted; fnd due service had, the case has since
been argued by counsel, -for and against the rule;
hn4 the opinion of this Court is now to be delivered.
Two objections have been urged at the bar,

OF THE -UNITED STATES.

1605

against the making this rule absolute. The first 1824.
is, that these proceedings, being summary, are not Expa
properly matters of record. The second, that this Wood."
is not a case in which, by'law, a scire facias, or
process in the nEiture of a scirefabias, can be
awarded, to try the validity of the patent.
Both of these objections are founded upon the
provisions of the lOth-seciion of the patent act,
and must be decided by a careful examination of
those provisions. The words are, "that, upon
oath or affirmation being made, before the Judge
of the. District Court, where the patentee, his executors, &c. reside, that any patent, which shtll be
issued in pursuance of this act, was obtained surreptitiously, or upon false suggestion, and motion
made to the said Court within three years after
issuing the said patent, but not afterwards, it shall
and may be lawful for the Judge of the said District Court, if the matter alleged shall appear to
him to be sufficient, to grant a rule that the patentee, or his executor, &c. show cause why process
should not issue against him, to repeal such patent ; and if sufficient dause shaU not be shown to
the contrary, the rule shall be made absolute; and
thereupon, the Judge shall order process to be is;
sued against such patentee, *orhis executors, "I,
qvith costs of suit. And in case no sufficiencause
shall be shown: to the contraryi orif it shall appear
that the patentee was not the true inventor or dig:
coverer, judgment shall be rendered by such Court
for the repeal of the said patent. And if the party at whose complaint the process issued, shall
have judgment given against him, 'he shall pay all

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

such costs as the defendant shall be put to in dethe suit, to be taxed by the Court, and rew ,d covered in due course of law."
Upon the slightest inspection of this section, it
wiii be at once perceived, that however summary
the proceedings may be, they are of vaht importance to the parties, and involve the whole right
and interest of the patentee. The jurisdiction
given to the Court, is not general and unlimited,
but is conlined to cases where the, patent. was obtained surreptitiously, or upon false auggestionm;
where the ,patentee resides within the district; and
where the application'is made within three years
after the issuing of the patent. It is, therefore,,
certainly necessary, that all these facts, which are
indispensable to found the jurisdiction, should be
stated in the motion ano accompanying affidavits;
and with6ut them, the Court.c4Anot be justified in
-awarding the rule. It -follows, of course, that in
any record that is to be made of the proceedings,
-they constitute the preliminary part, and ought
not to be omitted. In the present case, they have,
been wholly omitted, and tlie record is, in this respect, incoinplete and inaccurate.
But it is said that, .technibally speaking,, thiese
proceedings are not matters of record.. Thay are
certainly proceedings of a Court ofrecord, for such
are all the Courtb of the United Stateq, in virtue
qf their organization, both upon principles ofthe
common law, and the express intendment of CQn,
gress. -In general, the interlocutory proceedings
in suits are not entered of record, as,. thy are
deemed merely-collateral iildents. '111t.where
Sfending

OF THE UNITED STATES.

a special jurisdiction is given to a Court, as in the 1824.
present instance, it applears to us that, in conform- Ex parw
ity to the course of decisions in this Court, upon Wood.
the subject of jurisdiction, till
the preliminary proceedings required to found that jurisdiction should
appear of record, as they constitute an essential
part of the case. In general, motions and rules
made in the course of suits, over which the Court
has an acknowledged jurisdiction, are not entered
of record. But where a rule is the sole foundation
of the suit, and the first step in its progress, that
rule can only be granted under special circumstarices prescribed by law ; it is not sufficient to show
that the rule itself was granted, but it must also
appear, by the proceedings, that it was rightfdly
granted.
But the more material question is, whether the
.proceedings, so far as the rights of the patentees
are concerned, terminated with the rule being
made absolute, so that, ipso facto, the patent
was repealed, and the process to be issued was
only process to enforce or declare "the repeal; or
whether the process was in the nature of a sczre
facias at common law, to repeal the patent, if,
upon a fhture trial, the same should be found
invalid.
This question must be decided by the terms of
the section in controversy; but in the interpretation of those terms, if their meaning is somewhat
equivocal, that construction ought certainly to be
adopted which, not departing fi'om the sense, is
most congenial to our institutions, and is most convenient in the administration of public justicee

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURI

1824.
Ex Parte

Wood.

The securing to inventors of an exclusive right
to their inventions, was deemed of so much import
tance, as a means. of promoting the progress of
science and the useful arts, that the constitution
has expressly delegated to Congress the power to
secure such rights to them for a limited period.
The inventor has, during this period, a property
in his inventions ; a property which is often of very
great value, and of which the law intended to give
him. the absolute enjoyment and possesgion. In
suits at common law, where the value izR controversy exceeds 20 dollars, the constitution has
secured to the citizens'a trial by jury. In causes
of equity and admiralty jurisdiction, they have the
security of a regular and settled course of proceedings, where the rules of evidence and the principles of decision are well established. And in all
these cases, there is the farther benefit conferred
by our laws, 'of revising the judgments of the inferior Courts, by the exercise of appellate jurisdiction. It is not lightly to be presumed, therefore,
that Congress, in a class of cases placed peculiarly
within its patronage and protection, involving
some of the dearest and most valuable rights
which society acknowledges, and the constitution
itself means to favour, would institute a new and
summary process, which should firiqlly adjudge
upon those righti, without a trial by jury, without
a right of appeal, andwithout any of those guards
with which, in equity suits, it has fenced round the
geAneral administration'of justice. The patent acts
have givenw to the patentee a right to sue' at cool=on. law for damages fo.r. any violation of his in-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

669

vention; and have given him a farther right to 1824.
claim the interference of a Court• of equity, by way Ex pute
of injunction, to protect the enjoyment of his pa- Wood.
tent. It would be somewhal surprising'if, after
such anxious legislation, there should exist in the
act a clause which, in a summary manner, enables
any person to repeal' his patent, and thus sweep
away his exclusive property, without interposing
any guards by way of appeal, or any regular proceedings, by.which the validity of titles, in ordinary cases, is examined and contested.
With these considerations in view, let the 10th
section of the act.be examined. Its object is to
provide some means to repeal patents which have
been obtained surreptitiously, or upon false suggestions; the very cases for which a scire facias
issues at the common law. As the patents are not
enrolled in the records of any Court, but among
the rolls of the Department of -State, it was necessary to give some directions as to the correct
time and manner of instituting proceedings to repeal them. It accordingly directs, that the District Judge may, upon proper evidence, under
oath, and motion made to the Court, in his discretion, " grant a rule that the patentee, &c.
show cause why process should not issue against
him, to repeal such patent; and if sufficient cause
shall not be shown to the contrary, the rule shall
be made absolute, and thereupon the Judge shall
order process to he issued against such patentee,
&c. with costs of suit." It is obvious, from the
language of this clause, that the rule is a rule not
to repeal the patent, if it is made absolute, but a
VOL. IX.

77

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
"

Ex parte
Wood.

rule for process to issue to repeal the patent. It
is not then 'the rule, but the process contemplated
by the act, that repeals the patent. It is not a
mere forra but it is of the essence of the proceedings, without which, the rule has no efficacy. Is
the process to be issued a process which, per se,
repeals the patent, or are the words " tp repeal
such patent," to be construed as merely descriptive of the nature of the process, and of the effect
of it, if judgment shall be finally pronounced in
support of 'it ? In other words, is it a process in
the nature of an execution, or a judicial, process,
in the nature of a scire facias, calling for further
proceedings? If the words, of the. section had
stopped at the clause already referred to, it would,
perhaps, have been difficult to find a sufficient
explanation of the legislative will, to have led the
Court to the conclusion, that judicial process, in
the -nature of a scire facias, was certainly intended; there would have been some reason for
hesitation; but, even then, an interpretation against
such process would not have been without serious
embarrassments. It could not be arrived at, without leavigg much of questionable reasoning behind. But the section does not stop here. It
goes on to- make farther provisions, which, if the
process absolutely repealed the.patent, could have
no operation, and no intelligible meaning. On
the other hand,- if the process was to be in the
nature of a scire facias, all the words are sensible and operative, and, describe the proper progress and proceedings upon such a writ. The
clause is in these words: ..' And, in pase no suffi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cient cause shall-be shown to the contrary, or if 1824.
it shall alppear that the, patentee was not the trde'

inventor or discoverer, judgment shall be rendered by such Court for the repeal of the patent."
These words follow after the clause awarding the
process, and, of course, suppose the procss already issued. The party is supposed to be called
upon to show cause, which- is precisely what 'a
scirefavias requires in its official mandate;- and
if no sufficient cause is shorii to the contrary, or
if it shall appear that the patentee was not the
true inventor or discoverer, then the patent is to
be repealed. If the process is merely to repeal
the patent, and not to institute a trial, how can
the party show cause? how can it judicially appear that the patentee is not the inventor ? These
provisions are intelligible in a scire-faci, for
that authorizes subsequent inquiry into the law
and the facts. But, farther, "judgment" is to
.be rendered. Now, it is not necessary to'liy any
particular stress on this word, as a known juridical phrase, expressive of the final decision of the
Court;-.but if the making the rule. absolute re-

pealed the patent, and the process is merely an
execution, how could any subsequent judgment
be rendered in the case? It would be contrary to
all analogy, to all rules of judicial interpretation,
to suppose that judgment is to succeed, and not
to precede, the writ of execution. The clause
goes on, "and if the party, at whose complaint
the process issued, shall have judgment against
him, he shall pay all such costs as the defendant
shall be put to in defending the suit, to be taxed

wood.

. CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
" panet
Ex

Wood.

by the Court, and recovered in due course of law."
The language is here still more distinct and persuasive. It imports, in a clear manner, that some
proceedings were to be had after the process
issued, by which the case might be .farther investigated; and if upon such, investigation judgment
should be against the complainant, the patentee
should recover his costs. The language is, that
the pariy, at whose complaint the process issued,
not the rule issued, shall have judgment against
him. Upon what? the rule? Certainly not; but
upon the process issued. He shall pay. the costs
to which the defendant is put in defending the suit.
What suit is here intended ? We think it is clear
that it means the suit upon the process, that is,
upon.the scire facias; for the proceedings upon
the rule are not, in a technical, or in any accurate
sense, a suit. The costs of defending the suit
are to be paid.. But how can any costs arise from
a defence unon a process which is final and absolute? It appears to the Court, that to give the*
construction contended for by the counsel against
the rule, would be to reject. the plain and obvious
purport of the whole of the last clauses of the
sec'tion, and make them a perfect nullity. • In the
other view, they have entire effect, and are as reasonable and just, in themselves, as they are promotive of the security of vested rights and property.
Nor does the occurrence of the words "costs of
suit," in the preceding part of the section, where
it is said that "the process shall be issued, &c.
with costs of suit," in the slightest degree.impugn

OF THE UNITED STATES.

615

this interpretation. The true meaning of these 1824.
words in this connexion, is not • that costs of suit, Ex pafto
already'incurred, shall be paid and collected, but Wood.
that the process shall be, to show cause why.the
patent shall not be. repealed, and costs of suit
given to~the complainant. In this view, it fortifies the construction already asser.ted by the Court.
That this is the true exposition of the words, is
made apparent by examining the 5th section of
the patent act of 1790, ch. 34., which is exactly
similar in terms to the 10th section of the present
act, except that it omits, in this place, the words
" costs of suit." These words, therefore, were
not intended to change, and cannot be admitted
to change, the natural meaning of the other parts
of the section. And if the other words used in
this connexion are descriptive of the nature of
the process, these w6rds are merely explanatory
of the legislative intent, that the costs of the suit
should follow upon the final judgment in favour of
the complainant. Without this provision, as the
other clause giving costs applies toxthe patentee
.only, the complainant, although he should prevail
in the suit, would hot be entitled to any costs.
This was a real defet in the first act, and is cured
by the insertion of the words under consideration.
-Nor are there any public mischiefs which will
result from the view which the Court takes of this
section. On the contrary, it will subserve the
purposes of general justice. If a patent has been
fraudul6ntly obtained, or upon false suggestions,
it may be repealed within three years, if a jury,

614
1824.
Ex parte
Wood.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

upon a trial, shall be satisfied of the fact. If such
a repeal be not had, still the public have a perfect
security. They may violate the. patent with impunity, and if sued for the violation, any person
nihy show the same facts in his defence, and they
will coristitute a complete bar to the suit, by the
express provisions of the 6th section .of the patent
act. Here, also, the trial will be ordinarily by a
jury, and if the verdict is found, upon such facts,
in favour of the defendant, the law expre"ssly declares, th'at "judgment shall be rendered for the
defendant, with costs, and the patent' shall be declared void." Many patents, under this section,
have already, in such suits, been adjudged void;
sothat the danger -of extensive imposition or injury is wholly chimerical. On the other hand, if,
by any accident or mistake, the patentee should
neglect to appear to oppose the rule, upon the orgufnient on the other side, he may be remediless.
But, upon the exposition of the statute adopted
by the Court, he will still be entitled to appear to
the scire facias, and have -a more deliberate opportunity to defend his rights.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court,
that the rule ought to be made absolute, and that
a peremptory mandamus issue to the Judge of the
District Court, directing him to enter upon record
the proceedings in this cause, antecedent to the
granting of the rule, and upon whidhl it was
founded: that he award a process, in the nature
of a scire facias, to the patentees, to show cause
why the patent should not be repealed, with costs
of suit: that upon -such process being returned,

OF THE UNITEELTATES.

duly executed, he proceed to try the same cause,

615
1824.

upon the pleadings filed by the parties, and the

issue joined thereon; and that, if the issue so
joined be an issue of fact, then the trial thereof
to be by a jury; if an issue of law, 'then by the
Court, as in other cases.
Mandamus atcordingly.
Upon the hearing of this cause
upon 'the rule to show cause, heretofore awarded
by this Court,. and on consideration of the arguments of counsel for and against making the same
rule absolute, it is ORDERED and ADJUDGED by the
Court, that the same rule be, and hereby is, made
absolute. And it is further ORDERED by the Court,
that a peremptory mandamus issue to the District
Judge of the Southern District of New-York,
commanding *him to -enter upon* record the proceedings in this cause, antecedent to the granting
by. him of the rule to show cauie why process
should not issue,- to repeal the patent in the proceedings mentioned, and upon which the said
rule was founded: that thesaid Judge do award a
process, in- the nature of a scire fazias, to the
patentees, to show cause why the said patent
should not be repealed, with costs of suit:"that
upon the -return of such process, as duly served,'
the said Judge do proceed to try the cause upon
the pleadings filed by the parties, and the issue
joined therieon ; and that if the issue be an issue
of fact, the trial thereof be by a jury; if an issue
of law hen by the Court, as in other cases.
JUDGMENT.

Wo

