CASES IN THE SUPREME UOUI'I

1824.
Sebree
[LoCAL LAW.J

V.

Dorr.
SEBREE

and others, Plaintiffs in Error,
V.

DORR,

Defendant in Error.

In a declaration upon a promissory note, the onission of the plact.
where it is payable is fatal.
Secondary evidence of the contents of written instruments is not
admissible, when the originals are within the control or custody of
the party.
This rnle of evidence is not dispensed with by the local stattges of
Kentucky, which provide that no person shall be permitted to deny
his signature, as maker or assignor of a note, in a suit against him,
unless he will make an affidavit denying the execution or assignment. These statutes do not dispense with proof of the existenco
of the instrument, or of the right of the party to hold it by assignment.

Feb. 271h.

March 6th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Bibb,* for the
plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Wicklie,b for the
defendant in*error.
Mr. Justice

STORY,

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
Kentucky. The action was brought by Dorr, as
a He cited, Hardin. Rep. 223. 3 Marsh. Xen. Rep. 163.
1 Marsh. 228. .2 Marsh. 256. 522. 610. 614. 1 Cranch, 290.
Print.Dec. 152. 1 Bibb, 239. 542. 596. 2 Bibb, 34. 3 Bibb,
6. 227. 4 Bibb, 286. 527. 290. 424. 556. 7Johns. Rep. 174.
4 Johns.Rep. 1. 3 Caircs, 112. 2 Mass. Rep. 433. 5 Cranch,
322. 1 Saund. 32.
b Who cited, I Marsh. Ken. Rep. 535. 541. 2 Marsh. 256.
5. Cranch, 135. 2 Bibb, 35. 1 Phillipson Et'id.286.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

559

assiguce, against Sebree and Johnson, as assignors, 1824.
upon two notes, under seal, made to them by the Sebree
Lexington Manufacturing Company. The declaV.
ration, instead of distinct counts upon each note, Dom.
combine8, in an inartificial manner, both notes in
a single count. It states, that "the Lexington
Manufacturing Company, by their corporate seal,
and signed by John T. Mason, jun., their president, did, on the 12th day of March, 1818, at, &c.,
execute and cause to be made, their note or writing obligat6ry, by which they did oblige themselves to pay to John T. Mason. and James Johnson, twelve itonths after th6 date of the said writing, 10,065 dollars"and 88 cents; and on the same
day, and at the same place, did execute their other
writing obligatory, in like manner, by which they
bound and obliged themselves to pay to the said
James Johnson and John T. Mason the further
sum of 311 dollars and 31 cents ;" omitting to state
when the last note was payable. It then proceeds
to allege the endorsements of the notes to the'
plaintiff, the presentment of the same to the Lexington Manufacturing Company for payment, the
refusal, and protest for non-payment, and the commencement and prosecution of suits to final judgment and eiecution, against the Company, for the
amount of the notes, in the General Court of Kertucky; the return upon the execution, that no property could be found, and due notice to the defendants. It farther avers, that the General Court
had jurisdiction of the suits, and that, in consideration of the premises, the defendants became indebted and promised to pay the amount to the

CASES IN THE. SUPREME COURT

plaintiff. There were also counts for goods sold,
and for moneit had and received. The cause
Sebred
v. - came on for trial upon the general issue ; and the
Dorr.
only evidence .produced by the plaintiff to support
his action, was the records of the foregoing suits,
which also contained copies of the original notes,
and of the protests by the Notary. The defendants
then prayed the Court to instruct the jury, 1. that
the plaintiff had not made out a good cause of action ; 2. that the records and proceedings aforesaid
were not evidence against the defendants, because
it did not appear that the General Court had cognizance of the subject matter; 3. Tl.pt the records
were not sufficient evidence of diligence on the
part of the plaintiff, nor of the insolvency of the
makers, nor of the assignment by the defendants.
The Court overruled the motion, and instructed
the jury, that the records entitled the plaintiff to a
verdict against the defendants ; and to these proceedings on the part of the Court, the defendants
filed their bill of exceptions, and have thus b.rought
the same points for consideration before this
Court.
By the local law of Kentucky, instruments of
this nature are assignable; and if due and reasonable diligence is used by the assignee, to procure
payment from the maker, by the speedy commencement and prosecution of a suit against him,
and satisfactiorl cannot bo obtained upon the judgment and execution in such suit, the assignor is
responsible for the amount. But without such suit,
no'action lies against the assignor. It is also provided by the statutes of Kentucky, and the sub1824.

OF THE UNITED STATL.

stance of these statutes has been incorporated into 1824.
the rules of the Circuit Court, -that no person shall .oebree
be permitted to deny his, signature, as maker or
V.
as assignor, in a suit-against him, founded on in- Dor
struments of this nature, unless he will make an
affidavit denying the execution or assignment.
These explanations are necessary, to enable Vs
more accurately to understand the nature and
bearing of the objections relied on at the bar, to
reverse the present judgment.
The first objection that occurs, upon the examination of this cause, is, that the note for 311 dollars and 31 cents, is not state.d in the declaration
to be payable at any particular time; and if this
be not a substantial infirmity in the count, the conclusion of law is, that the note was due presently,
or on demand. Now, the record of the suit, which
is offered to show due diligence in endeavouring
to recover this note from the maker, is not founded on a note payable on demand, but on a note
payable twelve months after the date ; so that
there.isa niaterial variance between the note declared on in this suit, and the ziote which was declared on in the record offered in evidence. If we
admit the copy of the note.in the same record to
be evidence, a farther difficulty is presented; for
on its face, the note purports that, "twelve months
after date, the President,DirectorsandCompany
of the Lexington Manufacturing Company promise to pay to James Johnson and John T. Mason,
jun., or their order, 311 dollars and 31 cents, negotiable and payable at the Office of Discount
and Deposit of the Bank of the United States,
VOL. IX.

71

CASES IN TIHE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Sebrec

v.
Dorr.

at Lexington, without defalcation, for value 'received." The variance.of this note from that described in the present declaration, is very striking.
It is payable to the defendants, or order, in twelve
months after date, and id the Bank of Discount
and Depiosit of the Uited States, in Lexington.
These are all material parts of the note, and they
are all omitted in the declaration.
The variance,
then, in this view also, would be fatal. And it
!nay be added, that in the suit in the General
Court, the declaration also omits to state, that the
note was payable to order, and at the Bahk of the
United States ; so that, in fact, the note is materially
different from the declaration, in both suits. In
regard, too, to that part of the present declaration,
which describe9 the note for 10,065 dollars and 88
cents, there is a total omission to state, that it was
" negotiable and payable at the Office of Discount
and Deposit of the Bank of the &nited States,
without defalcation*, for value received," as in the
copy produced in the record it purports to be; and
the same'omission occurs in the declaration in the
suit in the General Court. Nothing is better
established, both upon principle and authority, than
that if the place where a note is payable is omitted
in the declaration, it is fatal; for the evidence
produced does not suppor't the declaration. There
is a variance in thQ essence of the instrument, as
declared on,.and as proved. Upon these grounds,
then, it is manifest, that the record produced in
evidence did not support the plaintiff's action.
There is another objection, which is equally decisive of the -case. It i§, that there was-no pro-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

duction of the original notes, nor any excuse offered to account for the non-production of them, at
the trial. It is a general rule of the law of evidence, that secondary evidence of the contents of
written instruments is not admissible, when the
originals are within the control or custody of the
party. Here no proof was offered, to show that
the original notes were impounded, or that they
were not within the possession of the party, or
within the reach of the process of the Court.
Without such proof, the principles of the common
law repudiate the introduction of copids; and
copies were all that the record, in the most favourable view for the plaintiff, presented to the Court.
But it is said, that- the statutes of Kentucky, already referred to, dispense with the proof of the
execution of instruments of this nature by the
maker, and also of assignments by the assignor,
unless the party will, on oath, deny the signature
and the assignment; and that the only object of
producing the originals, is to establish these facts.
The -argument, therefore, is, that these statuteable
provisions amount to a dispensation with the general rules of evidence as to the production of the
But to us it appears, that the staoriginal note.
tutes of Kentucky ought to have no such interpretation. The object of the Legislature manifestly
was, to dispense with the formal proof of instruments, where the party would nt.deny on oath
the. fadt of their execution. It was thought inconvenidnt'to suffer parties to take advant-ge of unexpected objections, ind multiply delays'by general-denials, which might often spring up by surprise

1824.
Sebree
V.
Dor.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

1824.
-'Sebree
v.
Dor

at the trial, and thus load the cause with heavy
and unnecessary expenses. But it would be most
danger6us to allow that, because the proof of the
execution of an instrument was dispensed with,
therefore, no proof of its existence, or of the right
of the party to hold it by assignment, was to be
required. The production of the originals might
still b justly required, to ascertain its conformity
with the declaration, to ascertain whether it remained in its genuine state, to verify the title by
assignment in the plaintiff, to trace any payments
which might have been made and endorsed, and
to secure the party, from a recovery by a bonafide
holder under a subsequent assignment. These are
important objects, and which no *ise Legislature
would lose sight of; and it is too much to expect
any Court of justice to infer, upon so slight a foundation, the abolition of those s.alutary rules of
evidence which constitute the great security of the
property and rights of the citizens.
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the records,
however admissible for the purpose of showing
due and reasonable diligence by suit,-were not
legal evidence of the assignment of the notes, so
as to, dispense with the-production of the -originals.
It is unnecessary to go into the question as to
the jurisdiction.of the General'Court over the suit
against the. Lexington Manufacturing Company,
and what would be the legal effects growing out
of the defect of such jurisdiction. These, as well
as some other minor points, may be passed over,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

since the cause may be disposed of without enter-. 1824.
ing upon the discussion of them.
Sebree
v.
It .is the opinion of the Court, that the .Circuit
Court erred in instructing the jury, that the records Dofr.
aforesaid entitled the plaintiff to a verdict; and the
judgment must, therefore; be reversed, and a ve• irefacias.de ovo be awarded.
Judgment accordingly.

[Lix Loci.]
KERR, Appellant,
V..
The D.visEEs oF A. MooN, Resgondents,
The disposition of real property, by deed or will, is subject to the"
laws of the country where It is Eituated.
Where the devisor was entitled to warrants for land in the Viiginim
Military District, in the State of Ohio, under the laws and ordinances of Virginia, on account of his military services, and made
a will in Kentucky, devising the lands, which was duly proved and
registered according to.the laws of that State: Hd,that although
the title to the land was merely equitable, and that not to any specific tract ofland, it'cquld not pass, unless by a will proved and registered accordingto the laws of Ohio.
Even addiiftng it to have been pirsonal property, a person claiming
" under a will proved in one State, cannot intehueddle with, or sue for,
the effects of 'a testator in another State, unless the will be proved
In thelatter State, or it is permittid by somelaw of that State.
Letters testamentary give to an"executor no authority to sue for tfie
personal estate of his testator, out of the jurisdiction of the State
by which they were granted.
Under the statute of Ohio, which permits wills made in other States

