CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

598

and to require a special count upon a lost note,
would be shutting the door against secondary eviV. dence, in all cases where the note was lost after
ashington. declaration filed. We do not think any danger of
fraud is to be apprehended from the admission of
such evidence, under the usual count upon the
note; and, the .practice in the Court below not
equiring a special count in such cases, no error
wAR committed in the. admission of the evidence.
1824.

r
N'Gruder

Judgment affirmed.-

[PA.OMISSORY Nozr.]
GEORG.

he

M'G RUDER, Plaintiff in Error,

V.
ERESIDFNT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE

BANK OF WASHINGTON,

Defendants in Error.

Where the maker of the note has removed into another State, or
another jurisdicticn, subsequent to the making of the note, a per-.
sonal demand upon him is not necessary to charge the endorser,
but it is sufficient to present the note at the firnler place of residence'of the maker.

.'Ifarchlsth. The opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr.
Justice'JOHN SON.
a Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL, Mr. Justice WAsHnNoToN,
and Mr. Justice DUVALL, did not sit in this cause. Mr. Jtstlee
STORY dissented.

OF THE UNITED STATE S.

599

-This case comes up from the Circuit Court of 1824.
the District of Columbia, in which a suit was in- MItGruder
stituted against thd plaintiff here, as endorser of BankV.of
one. Patrick M'Gruder.
Washiugton.
The facts areexhibited in a stated cise,, upon
which, by consent, an alternative judgment is to
be entered. The. judgment below was for the
plaintiffs in the action, and the defendant brings
this writ of error to have that judgment reversed,
and a judgment entered in.his favour.
The leading facts in the cause are so much
identified with those in the case of Renner -v.
The Bank of Columbia," decided at the present
term, on the question relative to the days of grace,
that the decision in that cause disposes of the
principal question raised in this.
But there is another point presented in the present cause. There was -no actual demand made
on the drawer of this note, and the question intenddd. to be presented was, whether tbi. facts
stated will excuse it.
At-the time of drawing the note, and until within
ten days of its falling due, the maker was a 'ousekeeper in the District of Columbia.. But he then
removed to the State .of Maryland, to a place
within .about nine miles of the District; The
case admits,'.that neither the holder of the note,
nor.the-nbtary, knew of his removal- or place of
residence; but tih. tircumstances of his removal
had nothing. "n. them to sanction its, being construed into an act of absconding. The.-words of
'a-iUC, p..81.

600

CASES IN THE SUPREME COU1I

1824.

the admission to this point are, that he "went tt,

'Orue
v.

the
dnd house where the said Patrick had last rosidod,

Bank of
Washington.

from which he had removed, as aforesaid,
in
order there to present the said note, and demand
payment of the same; and not finding him there,
and being ignorant of his place of residence, returned the said note under protest."
The alternative in which the .judgment of the
Court is to .be rendered, is not very appropriately
stated; but since the absurdity cannot have entered into the minds of the parties, thrat, not
knowing of the removal or presont abode of the
drawer, the holder was still bound to follow him
into Maryland, we will construe the submission
with reference to the facts admitted; and then the
question raised is,

Whether the holder had done all that he wa ,
bound to do, to excuse a personal demand. upor,
the maker.
On this subjeut. the .law is clear: a demand on
the mnaker is, in general, indispensable; and that
demand. must be made at his place of abode or
place of business. That it should be strictlypersonal, in the language of the submission, is not
required: it is enough if it is at his place of
abode, or, generally, at the place where hQ ought
to be found. But his actual removal is here a fact
in the case, and in this, as well as every other
case, it is incumbent upon the endorsee to show
due diligence. Now, that the notary should nrit
have found the maker at his late residence, was
the necessary consequence of his removal, and is
entirely consistent with the supposition of hie not

OF T11E UNITEO STATE$.

having made any one of those inquiries which 1824.
'%./
would have led to a developement of the cause
V.af
why he did not find him there. Non constat,but "Bank
W1ashingioa.
and
the
door,
the
next
to
removed
may
have
he
first question wonld, most probably, have extracted information that would 1ave put him on further
inquiry. Had the house been shut up, he might,
with equal correctness, have returned, '" that he
had not found him," and yet that clearly would
not have excused the demand, unless followed by
reasonable inquiries.
The party must, then, be considered as lying
under the same obligations.as if, having made inquiry, he had ascertained that the maker had re.moved to a distance of nine miles, and into another jurisdiction. This is the utmost his inquiries
could have extracted, and marks,, of course, tiro
outlines of his legal duties.
Mere distance is, in itself, no excuse from demand; but, in general, the endorser takes upon
himself the inconvenience resulting from that
cause. Nor is the benefit of the post office allowed him, as in the case of notice to.the endorsev.
But th& question on the recent removal into
another jurisdiction, is a new ,one, and one of
some nicety. In case of original residence in a
State different from that of the endorser, at the
time of taking the paper, there can be np question; but how far, in case 6f subsequent and recent removal to -another State, the holder shall
be required to pursue the maker, is a question -n6t
without its difficulties.
'b io
We think that reason and convenk -co
¢
J'4t..I

662

CASES IN THE SU'RMg COURT

1824.

favour of sustaining the doctrine; that such a rePreci.11'Gruer moVal is an excuse from actual demand.
i. of sion and certainty are often of more importance
Bank
Washington. to the rules of law, than their abstract justice.
On this point, there is no .other rule that can be
laid down, which will not-leave too much latitude,
as to place and distance. Besides which, it is
consistent with analogy to other cases, that the
endorser'should stand committed, in this respect,
by the conduct of the maker. For his absconding
or removal out of the kingdom, the endorse is
held, in England, to stand committed; and, although' from the contiguity, and, in some instances,
reduced size of the States, and tbeir union under
the general government,. the 'analogy is not perfeet, yet it is. obvious, that a removal from theseaboard bto
the frontier States, or vice versa, would
be attended with all the hardships to a holder,
espeially one of the same State with the maker,
that could result'from crossing the British chahnel.
With this view of the subject, we are of opinion
that the judgment below, although rendered on a
different- ground, must be sustained:
Judgment affirmed.

