532.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Smith

v.

[CIIANCaR.

JUaISDICTION.j

9 1'er.

SMITH V. M'IVEm.
In all cases of concurrent jurisdiction, the Court which first Ies pobsession of the subject, must determine it conclusively.
Although Courts of equity have concurrent jurisdiction with Courtq
of law, in all matters of fraud, yet, where the cause has already
been tried and determined by a Court of law, a Court of equity cannot take cognisance of it, unless there be the addition of some
equitable circumstance to give jurisdiction.
In such a case, some defect of testimony, or other disability which a
Court of law cannot remove, must be shown, as a grond for resorting to a Court of equity.

APPEAL from the Cir~uit Court of West Tennessee.
Feb. 10th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Eaton, and Mr.
Isaacks,o for the appellants; and by Mr. Whitc.
and Mr. S2paten,b for the respondents.

1eb. eoth.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL, delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of West
Tennessee, dismissing the plaintiff's bill.
The bill states, that the plaintiffhad made sevea They cited 1 Al'add. Ch. i0.
180.
Polk v. Wendell, 5
Wheat. Rep. 293. 30.
Cdwp. 208. 1 Burr.. 450. 2 Str. 592.
Winchester v. Evans, Cooke's Tenn. Rep. 420. Polk v. Wendell,
9 Cranch, 87. Burton v. Williams, 3 Wheat. Rep. 529.

1 They cited 4Johns. Riep. 610.

5 Hayn.. 106. 206. 216.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ral entries for small tracts of land within the district, for which he had obtain.d patents. That
the defendant, John M'Iver, claiming title to the
same land, under an older grant, obtained by Donaldson and Tyrrel, had brought ejnctments
against him for the several tracts of land he claims,
and has obtained judgment in some of them. That
he has attempted to bring the causes before this
Court by writ of error, but has been unable to do
so, because no one of his tracts is worth two thousand dollars; though all of them, taken together,
are Worth a larger sum.
The bill alleges, that the grant to Donaldson
and .Tyrrel is a pretended grant, purporting to be
issued by the State of North Carolina, in the year
1795; that if genuine, it does not cover his land,
because it calls for 40,000 acres only, but includes
70,000 within its boundaries ; that the grant is not
founded on any warrants, or, if upon any, on those
previously granted ; and the numbers of the warrants -have been inserted in the plat and certificate
by the grantees, since the grant issued ; that it is
probable the grant never di. issue, hut was stolen
but of the office in blank, and was filled up by the
.grantees, of all which the said M'!ver had nrice,
before he rerveived his conveyance. That M'lver
contends sometimes, -that the grant issued on one'
set ofwarrai.ts, and sometimes on another, and has
caused it to be registered in Knox county, in one
way, and in Overton, where the land lies, in another; and to avoid detection, has torn the plat and
certificate of survey from.the grant. And, finally,

533
1824.
Smith

V.
,I,.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

that the State of North Carolina had no power to

S
Smith

issue the grant.

V.

I'Iver.

The defendant demurred to this bill, and on argum ent, the demurrer was sustained, and the bill
dismissed.
The first question made in the cause, is the jurisdiction of the COurt, sitting as a qourt of Chancery. It is contended, on the part of the r'espndent, that a Court of equity can exercise no jurisdiction in the case, because the plaintiff has
full and adequate remedy at law.
The several allegations of the bill have been
reviewed; aridit is contended, thateach of them is
examinable at law, and. oqght to be decided in
precisely the same manner in both Courts. If the
surplus quantity of land untained in the patent,
avoids the grant, ii whole or in part, in a.Court of

equity, its effect would be the same in a Court of
lAw. If the grant be void, because issued without
warrants, or on warrants previously satisfied, it is
void at law. So with respect to the allegations, that
it was stolen out.of the land office ; that the plat
and certificate of survey hive beenr torn off; that
.Noira Carolina had no power to issue it ; and so
with respect to every allegation in the bill. The
facts alleged are all examinable at law, and a Court
of law is as capable of deciding on them as a Court
of equity. In such a case, the existence of some fact,
which disables the party, having the law in his favour, from bringing his case fairly and fully before
a Court of law, has bee4 generally'supposed to be
indispensable to the jurisdiction of a Court of
,equity. Some defect of testimony, some disability.

OF THE UNITED StATES.

535

which a Court of law cannot remove, is usually al- 1824.
leged as a motive
• "for coming into a Court of cqui- " Smith.
ty. But, in the case atbar, the bill alleges nothing
v.
Iqver.
exercifrom
law
of
Court
a
prevent
can
whicl,
sing its full judgment. No defect of testimony is
alleged; no discovery is required; no appeal is
made to the conscience of the defendant. Facts
are-alleged, which have precisely the same operation in a Court of law as .in
a Court of equity; and
thebill does not even insinuate that they cannot
be proved at law.
The argument on the other side is, that the bill
charges gross fraud on those under whom the defendant claims, and charges him with knowledge
of that fraud ; and-that Courts of equity have concurrent jurisdiction with Courts of law, in all matters of fraud.

. Admitting this pioposition to be true, to the full
extent in which it is stated, it will not, we think,
aid the case. In all cases-of concurrent jurisdiction, the Coutt which first has possession of the
subj6ct must decide it. The questions in these cases-fiave all been decided at law, and the party
can have no right to bring.them on again before a
Court of Chapcery.. Were a Court of equity, in a
case of concurrent jurisdiction, to try a cause already tried at law, without the addition of any
equitable circumstanQe -to give jurisdiction, it
.would act as an appellate Court, to affirm or reverse a judgment alre dy rendered, on the same
circumstances, 6y a competent tribunal. This is
not the province of a Court of Chancery.
Theappellant has rehed on the caseof Winches-

536

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
S~h
Smith

v.

M'Iver.

terv.Evans,et. al. (Cook's Tenn.Rep.420.) That
was a bill in theCourt of Chanceryof Tennessee,
to be relieved against ajudgment rendered in the
State Court of Pennsylvania, on the suggestion

that it was a trial by surprise, in the absence of
the party and of his witnesses. The defendant
filed a plea in bar, denying the surprise alleged in
the bill, and averring that the trial was a full and
a fair one, and that the judgment- was rendered
on all the testimony belonging to the cause. The
plaintiff demurred ; and, on the argument of the
demurrer, the Court said, "taking the matter of
the plea to be true, it would bar an investigation
in this Court. If the complainant chooses to deny
the truth of this plea, he can still reply to it, as well
as to the answer'; and he may then have an opportunity of showing, that there was'not a full
andfair trial ; and that, therefore, the judginent
ought, in equity, to have no effect. But while ever
I am constrained to believe that there was a full
and fair trial in a Court 6f law, it will be. an objection with me,to a re-investigation in a Court of
equity."
This case appears to the Court to decide the
very principle laid down in the preceding part of
ihis opinion.
Admitting, then, the concurrent jdrisdiction of
the Courts of equity and law, in matters of fraud,
we think the cause must be decided by the tribdunal which first obth.ins possession of it, and that
each Court must respect, the judgment or decree
of the other. A question decided at law, cannot

OF .THE UNITED STATES.

be reviewed in a Court of equity, without the suggestion of some
• equitable circumstance, of which
the party could not avail himself at law.

537
1"824.
INollan

V.

Torranm

Decree affirmed, with costs.

[PRACTICF.

MOLLAN

JURISDICTION.J

and others v. TonRANCE.

Ain cndersee of a promissory notp, ,.w'ho reiides in a-diffeient State,

may sue, in the Circuit Court, hiiiimmediate endorser, residing in
the State in ihich the suit is brought, although that endorser be a
resident of the same State, with the maker of the note.f
Ifht where the suit is brought ugniqst a remdte endorser, and the plaintiff, ih his declaration, tracei his title through an intermediate endorskr. he must show that this intermediate endorser could have
sustained his action in the Circuit Court.
A plea'to be jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must show tha !he
parties-were citizens of the same State, at the time the action was
brought, and not merely at the time of the plea pleaded. The
jurisdiction depends upon the, state of things at the time of the
action brought; and after it fs once vested, it cannot be ousted by a
subsequent change of residence of eitber of the pirties.

ERROR to the District Court of Mississippi.
This cause was argued by Mr. Jones,a for
a He cited Young v. Bryan, 6 Wheat. Rep. 146. Dugan v.
U. S., 3 Wheat. Rep. 180. Cdtty. Bills, 149. 370.
VoL. YX

69

mara6.

