OF THE UMiTED STA''ES.

651
1824.

[CONSTaUCION o' STATUTE.]

WALTON,

The UNITED

Plaintiff in Error,

STATES,

v.
Defendants in Error.

Under the ed and 4th sections of the act of the 3d of March, 1797,
ch. 868. a certified transcript from the books of the Treasury is
evidence against the defendant; and no claim for any credit can be
admitted at the trial, which has not been presented to, and disallowed by, the accounting officer of the Treasury, (unless in the
cases excepted by the act,) although no proceedings have been had
against the debtor, under the act.of the 3d of March, 1795, ch.
89., by notification from the Treasury Department -equiring him
to render to the Auditor of the Treasury his accounts and vouchers
fer settlement.
quzore, Whether the act of the 5d of March, 1795, ch. 289. is nu.
virtually repealed by the act of the 3d of March, 1797, ch. 368.?
The official bond given by a Receiver of Public Moneys, does not
extinguish the simple contract debt arising from a balance of account due frbm him to the United States. An action of assumpsit
for the balance of account, and an action of debt upon the bond
against the principal and suteties, may be maintained at the same
time.
In an action against the Receiver, not describing him in his official
capacity, evidence may be given of moneys received in his'official
capacity ;and, under a count fbr money had and received, evidence may be given of public stock received by him, where such
stock is, by law, made receivable, at par, in payment for lands sold
by the United States.
It is not necessary that a bill of exceptions should be formally drawn
and signed before the trial is at an end. The exception may be
taken at the trial, and noted by the Court, and may, afterwards,
during the term, be reduced to form, and signed by the Judge.
But, in such cases, it is signed nunc pro tune, and purports, on
its face, to be the same as if actually reduced to form, and signed
during the trial. It would be a fatal error if it were to appear
otherwise.

Walton

V.
U. States.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

1824.
'~'plaintiff

March

Ist.

aach,17th.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Clay, for the
in error, and by the Attorney-General,
for'the defendants in.error.
Mr. Justice DUVALL delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The plaintiff in error in this case, who was defendant in the Court below, was a receiver of public money, in one of the land offices in the District
of Mississippi, and being indebted to the United
States in a large amount, ,an action of assumpsit
was instituted against him, to recover the balance
due, which was stated to be $102,478 851, made
up of cash and stock; viz. in cash, $93,639 931,
and in Mississippi stock, $8,838 92. The declaration contains only one count, 'which is for
money lent and advanced, laid.out and expended,
and for money had and received. To this the
general issue of non assuimpsit was pleaded, and
issue was joined. The attorney for the United
States, to support the claim, offered in evidence
a transcript from the books and proceedings of
the Treasury, authenticated under the seal,of the
Pepartment, pursuant to an act to provide more
effectually for the- settlement of accounts between
the United States and receivers of public money,
,passed on the "3d of March, 1797; to the admission of which evidence the attorney for the defendant objected:
1. Because there had not been any proceedings
against him under the act of the 3d of March,
1795, entitled, "An act for the more effectual recovery of debts due from individuals to the United

OF THE UNITED STATES.

658

States," by notification from the Treasury Depart- 1824.
ment, requiring him to 0render to the Auditor bf Walto=
the Treasury his accounts and vouchers, in order
V.
U. States.
to a settlement, as directed by that act.
2. Because the account offered in evidence was
against the defendant, as receiver of public money,
west of Pearl river, and that the defendant, as
such receiver, had executed a bond with security,
according to law, for the faithful discharge of his
duties as such;- and that the remedy against him
being upon his official bond alone, an action for
money had and received would not lie
*3.
Because the declaration was against him in
his individual capacity, and the evidence offered
showed that he was liable, if at all, in his public
character as receiver of public money west of Pearl
river, and not in his individual capacity. But the
.Court overruled the objection, and were'of opinion
tiat the transcript was evidence to support the
declaration, and permitted the same to go to the
jury: to which opinion of the Court, the defendant, by his counsel, excepted, and the proceedings were -brought up to this Court bv writ of
error, for their revision.
In the argument of this cause, the copnsel for
the plaintiff in error has made no question which
does not appear in the record. He contends that
the act of 1795 is not repealed by that Of 1797,
and that the suit of the United States against
Walton cannotbe maintained, because, before a
suit can be sustained by the United States against
a debtor, he is entitled; according to the provisions of the act of'1795, to a notification from

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

the Comptroller of the Treasury, to appear before
W
the Auditor, with his accounts and vouchers, afWalton
V. fording him an oppQrtunity of a just and fair set..
U.States. tlement upon a full investigation of his accounts.
That, without such investigation, mane items, for
which the debtor may claim a credit,. may be rejected for want of the necessary explanations.
To this reasoning the Aitorney- Gen 'ral,on behalf of the United States, replies, by insisting
that the act of 1795 is virtually repealed' by that
of 1797, which contains similar and additional
provisions, incompatible with those of the former
act; and that the debtor has ample opportunity of
a full and just examination of his accounts under
the last mentioned act. The Court deem it unnecessary to decide the question, whether the act of
1795 is repealed by that of 1797, because the last
mentioned act contains ample provision for this
case. It is provided by the 2d section of that act,
" that in every case of delinquency, where suit
has been or shall be instituted, a transcript from
the books and proceedings of the Treasury, certified by the Register, and authenticated under the
seal of the Department, shall be admitted as evidence, &c." And by the 4th section it is enacted,
"that in suits between the United States and individuals, no claim for a credit shall be admitted,
upon trial, but such as shall appear to have been
presented to the accounting officers of the Treasury for their examiination, and by them disallowed,
in whole or in part, unless it should be proved to
the satisfactibn'of the Court, that the defendant
is, at the time of trial, in possessioix of vouchers

OF THE UNITED STATES

6
655

not before in his power to procureMd that he was 1624;
prevented from exhibiting a claim for such credit Walton
at the Treasury, by absence from the United
V.
States.
U.
accident."
uavoidable
States, or some
These positive provisionsof the law must be
disregarded, if we say that the authentioated transcriptfrom the Treasury Department is notevidence.
They are too plain to require argument; and the
debtor has a fair opportunity of establishing his
.account, if just, without a notificatfm from the
Comptroller, according to the act of 1795. In the
first placehe states his account- and when stated,
it is rendered to the Auditor, who examines it, and
makes a report to the Comptroller, by whom it.is
revised. Afterwards, in case of a suit, he jlas an
impartial trial in-Court, where"an opportunity is
again afforded him of supporting his claim; and if
the Court and jury, before whom the cause is tried,
should be of opinion that any item of .his account has been improperly rejected, it is restored.
to hip credit. On the trial .of this cause in the
Court below, it appears that the balance claimed
was reduced by the verdict of the jury to 44,994
dollars and 57 cents; it is. presumed, by the *exhibition of vouchers undei the 4th sectitn of the
act of 1797, which had not been rendered to the
accounting officers of the Treasury.
It was also urged, on the part of the plaintiff
in error, that the amount offered in evidence is
against hilm aas receiver of public money; and that
he had executed a- bond with security, according
to law, for the faithful discharge of his duties as
such ; -and that, therefore,'the account was merged

CASES M THE SUPREME COURT

656
1824.
\

in the sealed instrument, on which alone the accan be sustained. It may be admitted, that
a security 'under seal extinguishes a simple contract debt ;. but in the case under consideration,
the account and the bond are distinct from each
other. The official bond is not given for the balance due; itis a collateral security for the faithful performance of the official duties of the officer,
and was executed long before the existenei of the
balance claimed. It may be asked, how could a
bond, -in a penalty of 10,000 dollars, extinguish a
simple contract debt of more than 100,000 dollars ?
The balance claimed could not be recovered by a
suit on the bond. In all similar cases, between
the United States and their debtors, it is usual to
institute a suit for the recovery of the balanco
struck on settlement of the account, and an action
of debt on the official bond, to recover the penalty
of the sureties. It is indispensably necessary, in
every instance where the debtor is unable to pay,
The third and last objection made on behalf of
the plaintiff in error, is on the ground that he is
charged in the declaration in his individual capacity, and the evidence offered is against him in his
public character; and further, that the account
charges stock and money, and the claim is in money only; that on a count for money had and received, evidence cannot be given that the defendant received any thing but money. It is a full answer to this objection, to observe, 1. That the
receiver is ihdividually responsible for all the money he received in his public capacity; and, 2.
That evidences of the public debt are made, by

'tion

W2lton

u.

U. States.

OF THE UNITED STATES

657

law, payable at their nominal value, for lands sold 1824.
by the United States ; and, therefore, stock is re- Walton
ceivable as money at par.. And it appearing, by

V.

U.Stute,.
the account offered in evidence, that the far greater part of the balance claimed is in money, it was
proper and legal evidence to support the declaration ; and as the balance dlaifned was reduced by
the verdict of the jury, which is for money only,
and for less than the amount of cash claimed, the
just inference is, that the stock balance was extinguished by the vouchers produced by the defendant, on the trial in the Court below.
An objection was made onthe part of the United States, that the bill of exceptions in this case
was not taken.at the trial, but purports on the face
of the record to have been taken and signed after
judgment rendered in the case. It is true, that
the bill of exceptions states, that the evidence was
objected to at the trial: hit it is not said that any
exception was then taken to the decision of the
Court. So that, in fact, it might be true, that the
objection Was made, and yet not insisted upon by
way of exception. But the more material consideration is, that the bill of exceptions itself appears on the record not to have been taken at all,
until after judgment. It is a settled principle, that
no bill of exceptions is valid, which is not for matter.exdepted to at the-trial; We do not mean to
sayt that it is.
necessary, (and in point of practice
we know it to be otherwise,) that the bill of exceptions.should be formally drawn and signed, before
the trial is at an end. :'t will be sufficient, if the
exception be taken at the trial, and noted by thm
'VOL. IX.

83

658

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

Court, with the requisite certainty; and it may*
Tafterwards,
during the term, according to the rules
of the Court, be reduced to form, and signed by
the Judge ; and so, in fact, is the general practice.
But in all such cases, the bill of exceptions is signed nunc pro. tune; and it purports on its face to
be the same, as if actually reduced to forib, and
signed, pending the trial. And it would be a fa.
tal error, if it were to appear otherwise; for the
original authority, under which bills of exceptions are allowed, has always been considered to
be restricted to matters of exception taken pending the trial, and ascertained before the verdict.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

[Pszr.j
The

FANNY.
The CONSUL-GENERAL OF
PORTUGAL, Libelant.

Case of capture by an armed vessel, fitted out in tho ports of tho
United States, in breach of the neutrality acts. Claim by tin alleged honie fide, purchaser in a foreign pdrt tbjected, dnd" restitution decreed to the original owners.
A bones fidci purchaser, without notice, in such case, is entitled to bo
reimbursed the freight which he may have paid upon the captured
goods; and the innocent neutral carrier of such goods, the samo •
having been transhipped ina foreign port, is entitled to fre!ght-out
oif the gooils.

