CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

use her certificate of registry for the return voy-

_200 Chestsof age.
Tea.

She, however, did use it, and sailed under

its avowed- protection, "not being entitled to the
benefit ther of, according to the intent of the act."
The judgment of the District Court is reversed,
and a decree of condemnation awarded against
the schooner and her appurtenances.

[IzNSTArNCE COUiAr.J

Two HUNDRED

CHESTS 'OF TEA, SMITH,

Claimant.

In a libel of information, under the 67th section of the collection act
of 1796, c. 128. against goods, on account of their differing in description from the contents of the entry, it is not necessary that it
should allege an intention to defraud the revenue.
A question of fact, as to the rate of duties payable upon certain teas,
imported, as bohea. That terni is used in the duty act in its
known commercial sense; and fhe bohea tea of commerce is not
usually a distinct and simple substance, but is a compound, made
up in China, of various kinds of the lowest priced blach teas.
But, by the duty acts, it is liable to the same specific duty, without
regard to the difference of quality and price.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Massachusetts.
This was a libel of information, filed in the District Court of Massachusetts, against two hundred
chests of tea, alleging that, on the 8th of September, 1819, the collector of the customs for the port
of Boston seized at that port the said chests of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tea, as forfeited, for having been unlawfully im- 1824.
ported at the port of New-York, in the ship Onta- 200
'- Ghiests
e%of
o
rio, on the 29th of June, 1819, from Canton, in
Tea.
China, as being that kind and denomination of
teas commonly called bohea teas, and afterwards
transported coastwise to Boston, in..the original
chests and packages, and there entered as bohea;
and that, on such seizure and examination, according to law, the chests and packages were found
to differ in their contents from the entries, and the
teas contained in them to be of a different kind and
quality of black teas, and not bohea teas, as represented in the entries.a The claim interposed
by TI H. Smith, stated, that the teas in question
a The 67th section of-the collection act of 1799, ch. 128. upon
'which this information was founded, provides, " that it shall be
lawful for the collector, naval officer, or other officer of the customs, after entry'made of any goods, wares or merchandise, on
suspicion of fraud, to open and examine, in the presence of two or
more reputable merchants, any package or packages thereof; and
if, upon exanination, they shall be found to agree with the ent ;,
the officer making such seizure and examination, shall cauie tut:
same to be repacked, and delivered to the owner or claimant forthwith ; and the expense of such examination shall be paid by the
said ocollector or other officer, and allowed in the settlement of his
accounts; but if any packages so examined, shall be foqnd tb differ
in their contents from the entry, the goods, wares, or merchandise,
contained in such package, or packages, shall be forfeited : Prouided, that the said forfeiture shall not be incurred, if it shall be
made appear, to the satisfaction of the collector and naval oflicer
of the district where the same shall happen, if there be a naval officer; and if there be no naval officer, to the satisfaction of the
said collector, or of the Court in which a prosecution for the forfeiture shall be had, that such difference proceeded from accident
or mistake, and not from an intention to defraud the revenue."

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

were imported and entered by him, at the port of
200 Chests of New-York, as bohea teas, and that they are of the
Tea.
kind and denomination called bohea teas, and not
of a different kind or quality of teas. The District Court pronounced a decree of condemnation, upon the testimony taken in the cause, which
was affirmed, proforma,in-the CircuitCourt, upon
appeal; and the cause was, thereupon, biought
to this Court.
March th.

The cause was argued by Mr. Webster and
Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the appellant, and by Mr.
Blake. for the respondents.
On the part of the appellant, it was contended,
that the examination and seizure authorized by the
67th section of the duty act of 1799, c. 128.
are limited to the collector of the district, where
the goods were originally entered, and the duties
secured upon importation ; and that, consequently,
the case made out by the libel was not within the
purview of the act, even supposing the collector
might, by his general authority, make a seizure,
and assert the forfeiture in a libel properly framed
for-that purpose. The United States were concluded, by the entry and inspection of the teas, at
the port of New-York, where the importation from
ak foreign port was made, and the duties paid and
secured. Besides, the libel contains no allegation of an intention to defraud the revenue. By
the terms of the statute, no forfeiture is incurred if
the difference between the entry and the packages proceeded 'from accident and mistake, and not

OF TH

UNITED STATU

from an intention to defraud the revenue. The
want of such an allegation must, therefore, be considered as a substantial defect in the libel. The
counsel also minutely examined the evidence,
and insisted-that the statute meant to describe the
different kinds of teas in ordinary commercial
I
language, and not with scientific precision. The
tea now in question, is the bohea of commerce,
whatever might be its botanical designation, or its
Chinese name.
For the respondents it was argued, that the construction of the 67th section of the act,.-Which had
been contended for by the claimant, would, if
adopted by the Court, be fatal to the whole system of revenue laws. There was nothing in the
terms of the section, or in other parts of the statute, which nestricted it to the collector of the port
and district where the original importation from
abroad was made. On the contrary, .the terms,
"a collector," and "the collector," are used promiscuously throughout the act, where an authority
is intended to be given to, or a duty imposed on,
the collectors of the customs generally; rnd
wherever it is intended to confine the authority or
duty to the collector of any particular port, appropriate words are used for that purpose. It was
altogether ah erroneous supposition, that an entry
of goods, brought coastwise from the collection
district where they were originally imported to
another, was not required by the revenue laws.
On the contrary, whenever the value of such
goods exceeds, 400 dollars, and they are contained
Vot,.

55

48
1824.
Tea.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

in the original packages. as imported, an entry is
200 Chests of quired, upon their bei ng transported from one
Tea.
port to another, although that.precise term may
not be used in the various revenue and navigation
laws." All the formalities required by these acts
were complied with on bringing these teas from
the port of New-York to the port of Boston, and
consequently an entry was made with the collector of the latter port, so as to authorize him to
make the examination and seizure under the 67th
section of the collection act.' Nor was any allegation of an intention to defraud the-revenue necessary, since the libel pursues the language of
the enacting clause of the act, by which the forfeitur is inflicted whenever the packages are
found to differ in their contents from the entry;
and the exemption from forfeiture, where the difference proceeds from accident or mistake, is contained in a separate proviso to the section, ,which
is matter of defence for the claimant. By the
act of April 16, 1816, c. 107. and by several preceding statutes, the first of which was enacted in
1789, a specific duty wis imposed on "bohea tea."
All these acts make a discrimination in terms,
between ".bohea" and " souchong and all other
black teas." The Legislature must necessarily
have had in view, in both cases, a certain commodity, known by those names respectively. Had
this not been the fact, an ad valorerm duty would
long since have beep imposed, in order to prevent
the gross frauds upon the revenue, which must
a Act of Feb. 18, 1793, for enrolling and licensing ships and
vessels to be employed in the coasting trade, &d. c. 153. [viii.)
s. 16, 17. 19.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be the inevitable consequence of permitting such
teas as those now in question to be imported as
bokea. The same distinctive term. is used.in the
British revenue laws, and is supported by the authority of various writers on commerce.a It is
exclusively applied to the common bohea tea,
sometimes called mofji or moee by the Chinese;
and, consequently, the various instances of the
mixtures of teas in China, which are spoken of
by the witnesses, as being composed ordinarily of
not more than one third part of that 'species, and
the residue of old souchong, congo, and others
of the higher order of teas, and thus imported
into this -country under the name of bohea, must
be regarded, in a legal point of view, as being an
evasion of the several statutes on that subject.

1824.
Tea.

Mr. Justice STdRY delivered the opinion of the march sTh
Court.
The two. hundred- chests of tea, in controversy
in this suit, were imported into the city of NewYork, in the'ship Ontario, from China, and entered there at the custom house, and the duties regularly secured as bohea.teas. They were afterwards transported coastWise to Boston ; and upon
examination there, under the direction of the collector of the -district, 'they were seized as forfeited,
under the collection act of the 2d of March, 1799,
ch. 128. s. 67. on account of their differing in dea Stat. 43 Geo. II. c. -12. 24 Geo. III. c. 28.

Milborne's

Oriental Comm rce, vol. H.p. 521. Re'8 Cy/dopedid, art. Tea.
Thea. Xorrison's Chinese Dict. art. Tea.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

scription from the contents of the entry.

The li-

states the facts specially, but contains no alle00 Cbests of bel
"

TeB.

gation of an intention to defraud the revenue.
Upon this state of the case, the libel is assailed
for a supposed defect, arising from the absence of
such an allegation. But we think this objection
cannot be sustained. The libel follows the language of the enacting clause of the act, which inflicts the forfeiture ; and the. exemption from forfeiture, when the collector or the Court shall be
satisfied that the difference between the entry and
the packages "proceeded from accident or mistake, and not from-an intention to defraud the revenue," being found in a separate proviso, is properly matter of defence, to be asserted and pro"ved by the claimant, and is not, according to the
course of adjudications in this Court, essential to
the structure of the libel itself. This objection,
then, may be dismissed without further observation.
Another question, of more serious importance,
is, whether the examination and seiztire authorized by the 67th section of the act, are not limited
to the collector of the district where the goods
were originally entered and the dutics secured,
upon importation; and so the case made by t!he
libel is not within the purview of the act, whatever
.might be the authority of the collector to seize for
forfeitures generally, and to assert the claim in a
libel, properly framed for such a purpose. The
decision of this question would require a very minute and critical examination of the whole revenue
and coasting acts; and- as the Court can satisfac-

OF THE UNIT.ED STATES.

torily dispose of the cause upon the merits, in point 1824.
of fact, it is deemed unnecessary to institute so la- .oo Chem
Te
borious an inquiry.
The claim admits, that the teas were imported
and entered as bohea teas; and asserts, that they
are of the kind and denomination called bohea
teas, and not of a different kind or quality of teas;
and this forms the maiu point in controversy between the parties. One of the earliest acts of
Congress, (the act of the 20th of July, 1789, ch. 2.)
imposes duties on teas in the following.words:
"On bohea tea, per pound, six cents; on all souchong or other black teas, per pound, ten cents ;
on all hyson teas, per pound, twenty cents; on all
other green teas, per pound, twelve cents." The
act of the 10th of August, 1790, ch. 39. varied the
duties, but retained the same descriptions. The
actof the 29th of January, 1795, ch. 82. declared
that "teas commonly called imperial, gunpowder,
or gomee," should "pay the same duties as hysou
teas." The act of the 3d of March, 1797, ch. 64.
laid an additional duty of two- cents "upon all bohea tea." And the act of the 27th of April, 1816,
ch. 107. urider which this cargo was imported, le-"
vies duties oil "bohea, twelve cents per pound;
souchong and other black, twenty-five cents pcl
pound; imperial, gunpowder, and gomee, fifty
cents per pound; hyson, and young hyson, forty
cents per pound; hyson skin', and other green,
twenty-eight cents per pound." The, legislation
of Congress here detailed, exhibits a progressive
discri'nination'in.the kinds of green teas, but leaves

af

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1324.
x.i.-.,
20O0
Chests of
Tea.

the black teas with no other specific discrimination
than that of bohea and souchong.

The argument on behalf of the United States,
is, that the twc) hundred chests of tea, now in controversy, are in reality simple congo tea, and not
bohea ; that the latter is a pure unmixed tea, entirely distinct from congo, and known in China by
an appropriate name; that it is to this pure and
unmixed bohea tea, that the successive acts of
Congress refer, and not to any other mixed tea,
though known by the common denomination of
bohea. If we were to advert to scientific classifications, for our guide on the present occasion, it is
most manifest, from the works cited at the bar,
that bohea is a generic term, including under it
all the black teas, and not merely a term indicating
a specific kind. * But it tppears to us unnecessary
to enter upon this inqu; y, because, in our opinion,
Congress must be understood to use the word in
its known commercial sense. The object of the
duty laws is to raise revenue, and for this purpose
to class substances according to the general usage
and known denominations of trade. Whether a
particular article were designated by one name or
another, in the country of its origin, or whether it
were a simple or mixed substance, was of no importance in the view of the Legislature. It did not
suppose our merchants to be naturalists, or geologists, or botanists. It applied its attention to the
description of articles as they derived their appellations in our own markets, in our domestic as
well as our foreign traffic. And it would have
been as dangerous as useless, to attempt any other

OF THE UNITED STATES.

439

classification, than that derived from the actual 1824.
business of human life. Bohea tea, then, in the 200 Chestsof
sense of all our revenue laws, means that article
Tea.
which, in the known usage of trade, has acquired
that distinctive appellation. And even if the article has undergone some variations in quality'or
mixture, during the intermediate period from 1789
to 1816, when the last act passed, but still retains
its old name, it must be presumed that Congress,
in this last act, referred itself to the existing
standard, and not to any scientific or antiquated
standard.
The true inquiry, therefore, is, whether, in a
commercial sense, the tea in question is. known,
and bought, and sold, and used, under the denomination of bohea tea. We'think the evidence on
this loint is altogether irresistible. It estallishes
that the bohea tea of commerce is not usually a
distinct and simple substance, but is a compound
made up in China of various kinds of the lowest
priced black teas, and the mixture is of higher or
lower quality, according to the existing state of
the market. Indeed, from the uniformity of its
price in the midst of great fluctuations in the
prices of all other teas, it seems rather'to indicate
the lowest quality of black teas, than any uniform
compound. It is accordingly in proof, that old
congo teas are often sold as bohea, and have sometimes been imported into our market under thatdenomination. In short, whenever black teas are
deterioated by age, or are of the lowest price,
they are mixed up to form bohea for the market,
and are suited to the demand and wishes of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1284.

purchasers. It is not meant to affirm that there
22-0Che.,.
00 Chests of is no such simple and distinct tea known as bohea.
Tea.
All that the evidence justifies us in saying is, that
this is not the common bohea of commerce. The
latter may or may not be a simple substance, according to circumstances. The generic name
bohea, comprehending under it all the varieties of
black teas, whenever they are at the cheapest
price in the market, or are of a very.iiferior quality, or are mixed up for sale, they lose their specific names, and sink into the common denomination.
Such is the conclusion which, in the opinion of
the Court, the evidence in this record justifies and
requires. It is true, that the Boston witnesses
very strongly state that the present teas are pure
unmixed congo; and their testimony is entitled to
very great consideration, from their personal respectability as well as their long experience.
But the New-York witnesses speak with equal
positiveness and point, that the present teas are
the common bohea of the market, and have been
bought and sold as such without hesitation. These
witnesses, also, are entitled to entire credit, for
the same reasons; they have had great experience, and are of unquestioned credibility. In
this apparent conflict of, competent and credible
witnesses, the only way of reconciling the testimony, is to suppose thaut they do not speak ad
idem; that the Boston witnesses speak to the specific nature of the particular teas in controversy,
and the New-York witnesses to their known commercial denomination in their actual state, In

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this way of considering the testimony, the conflict 182.
exhibits more a matter of apparent than real di- baChestdo
Tea.
versity of opinion. But if it be not thus reconcilable, it appears to us that the weight of the
evidence is so strong, that teas of this description
haie been long impQrted into our market as bohea,
that no Court of justice would feel itself authorized
to inflict the forfeiture under the statute, upon a
presumed intentional violation of its provisions.
There is, indeed, something that applies still
more forcibly to the claimant, under thes6 circumstances, than applies in common cases. He came
into the tea trade since the peace of 1815, and
has been most extensively engaged in it. At the
time of his first commercial enterprise, teas of
this description were publicly and commonly imported into New-York as bohea, and had acquired
a known eommereial character. He -acted upon
this settled usage; and if the present seizure can
be sustained, he is to suffer for a forfeiture, which
be had no adequate means to avoid, and cQuld not
have foreseen.
Then, as to the intention of fraud.. It is said
that these teas were imported in congo chests,
covered with a thin paper, for the purposes of disguise, and that, upon inspection, it is clear that
the original congo- still remained in the chests.
The circumstance that .these are congo chests,
whose structure is perfectly known, would not
justify the-conclusion that there was an intention
to defraud the revenue, since that structure might
attract observation, and thus lead to immediate
VOL. IX.

56

442"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. detection. It would have been more natural to
_have.disguised congo teas in bohea boxes. But
Tea
the --dificulty that lies in the argument derived
from this source, is, that upon opening the chests,
the contents are proved to be exactly what the
New-York witnesses'call bohea, and the Boston
witnesses congo. .So that the question of fraudulent disguise depends upon the'fact, whether the
teabe or be not hohea; and if it*be settled to be
the-latter, then the .suso 'on from this circumstance vanishes.. The same answer niay be given
to all the other circumstances relied on as badges
bf fraud. They'.become utterly unimportant, if
there was note real misrepresentation of the quality:of the tea.
There is one, cogent fact, which presses with
peculiar weight in the consideration of. this part
of the case. It is, that after the present seizure
was made, and the whole train of suspicions disclosed, the remaining teas, of the same denomination -nd importation, which- were yet in the
public stores at New-York, underwent a strict
examination there under the authoity~of the officers of the customs. The result of that examination was an unequivocal opinion, that they- were
the common bohea of commerce; and this result
being communicated .to the. government, no farther proceedings were thought necessary to vindicate its rights.
But another'fact, which is decisive against the
supposition of a fraudulent intention, is, that the
teas were purchased 'inChina as'bohea, at the
usual bohea price, nnd upon their importation into

" OF THE UNITED STATES.

440,

New-York, were there sold at the usual bohea 1824.
price. They were sold at prices from thirty-one to £00 Chestsof
thirty-six and a half cents per pound, when, at the Tea.
same time, and in the same place, congo sold at
forty-eight cents per pound. This is not a matter
of doubtful or equivocal evidence; it is admitted
and proved in the most positive manner. What
then could have been the inducement to fraud?
Men do not perpetrate frauds upon the revenue
from the mere love of mischief, or the wanton
disregard.of duty. There must be some leading
interest, some enticing object in view, to lead
them to such a violation of social law and moral
sentiment. In the present case, no such motive
could exist, for the whole conduct of the party is
at war with the supposition. Nay, more, the perpetration of the fraud would have been against'
his interest. We do not here allude to his private
reputation as an opulent merchant, engaged in an
extensive commerce in teas, nor to the powerful
influence that, under such circumstances, public
opinion must have upon him, in its stern and severe, though silent rebukes. But his immediate
interest in the same trade and in the same voyage,
wouldbe sacrificed by such unworthy proceedings.
He would hazard large interests upon a paltry
saving in duties, from which he could in the end
derive not the slightest benefit.
It has been said, that unless -the present libel
can be maintained, a wide door will be opened
for the admission of frauds in the importation of
teas. If this be true, it forms no reason for a
different judicial construction of the acts of Con-

444

CASES IN THE SUPREAE COURT

1824. gress, much less for the enforcing a forfeiture
,O.Ces where the facts swill not warrant it.
Congress
200 Chests of
Tea.
can provide an e*asy remedy, by changing the
specific duty to a duty ad valorem, a policy
which has already obtained the sanction of other
-nations.
It is unnecessary to go farther into the discussion of the merits of this case. The judgment
of the Court ib, .that the decree of the Circuit
Court of Massachusetts, given pro forma, ought
'to be reversed, thejibel of the United States be
dismissed, and the 200 chests of tea be restored
to the claimant. But the Court are also of opinion
that there was probable cause of seizure, and direct it to be certified .upon the record.

Decree reversed.

