CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1824.
U,S. Bank

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.j

V*.

•Ph~aters'

Bank.

The
The

BANK OF TFE UNITED STATE,

V.
PLANTERS' BANK OF GEORGIA.

Thr Circuit Cotlut of the United States have jurisdiction of suits
biooght by the Bank of the United States against another Bank, in,ciulporated under a law of a State, and of shich the State Itself is
a stockholder, together %%ithprivtle individuals, who are itizens of
the same State with sume ,ofthe stockholders of the iBank of the
Onited States.
Tbc Bank of the United States may sue in the Circuit Courts, as eiWdorsee or bearer of a promissory note, although the original payee
or endorser could not sue in the sane Courts, being a citizen qf the
same State with the defendants.
The circumstance that a State is a member of a private corporation,
will not give this Court original jurisdiction of suits whore the cur.
poration is a party, or oust the Circuit Courts of the jurisdiction
vested in them by law.

March Illh.

"4arch2Oh.

THIS cause was brought tip on a certificatC of
a division of opinion between the Judges of tho
Circuit Court of Georgia, upon the questions ariming in it, and was argued by the same counsel
with the preceding case of Osborn v. The B madc/
of th United States.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opi-

nion of the Court.
In this case, the petition of the plaintiffs, which,
according to the practice of the St aje cC Georgia,
is substituted for a declaration, is founded on promissory notes, payable to a person hamed in the
note, "or bearer," and states, that the notes wore

OF THE UNITED STATES.

90,5.

duly transferred, assigned and delivered" to the -1824.
plaintiffs, "who thereby became the lawful bearer
U. & Bank
thereof, and entitled to payinent of the sums there,.
rlante'
considein
defendants,
the
that
and
in specified;
Bank.
ration, of their liability, assumed," &c.
The Planters' Bank pleads to the jurisdiction of
the Court, and alleges, that it is a corporation, of
which the State of Georgia, and certain individuals, who are citizens of the same State with some of
the plaintiffs, are members. The plea also alleges, that the persons to whom ihe notes mentioned
in the petition were made payable, were citizens
of the State of Georgia,. and, therefore, incapable of suing the said Bank in a Circuit Court of
the United States; and being so incapable, could
not, by transferring the notes to the plaintiffs, enable them to sue in that Court.
To this plea the plaintiffs demurred, and the
defendants joined in demurrer.
On'the'argument of the demurrer, the Judgei
were divided on two questibns:
1. Whether -the averments in the declaration
be sufficient in law'to give this Coirtljurisdiotion
of the cause ?
2. Whether, on the pleadings in the same,-he
plaintiffs be entitled to judgment?
The first question was fully considered by the
Court in the case of OsbOrne v. The Bank of the
United States, and it is unnecessaiy to repeat the
reasoningused-in that case. We- are of ophion,
that the averments in the declaration are sufficient
to give the Court jurisdiction of the cause.
VOL. IX.

114"

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

Id. The second point is understood to involve
two questions:
U. S. Bank
-t
"
v.
1. Does the circumstance that the State is a
Planters'
Bank.
corporator, bring this cause within the clause in
the constitution which gives jurisdiction to the
Supreme Court where a State is a party, or bring
.twithin the I Ith amendment ?
2. Does the fact that the note is made payable
to a citizen of the State of Georgia, or bearer,
oust the jurisdiction of the Court?
1. Is the State of Georgia a party defendant
in this case ? If it is, then the suit, had the 11th
amendment never .been adopted, must have been
brought in the Supreme Court of the United States.
Could this Court have entertained jurisdiction in
the case ?
We think it could not. To have given the
Supreme Court original jurisdiction, the State
must be plaintiff or defendant as a State, ind
must, as a State,- be a party om. the record, A
suit against the Planters' Bank of Georgia, is no
more a suit against the State of Georgia, than
against any other individual corporator. The
State is not a party, that is, an entire party, in. the
euse.
If this suit could liot have been. brought originally in the Supreme Court, it would be difficult tp
show, that it is within the 11th amendment. That
amendmnt does not purport to do more than.to
restrain the construction which might otherwise be
given to the constitution ;' and if this'case be not
oqe 6f which the Supreme Court could have taken
original jurisedictoxi, it is not within the. amedd-

Or THE UNITED STA.TES.

907

mont. This is not, we think, a case in which the 1824.
character of the defendant gives jurisdiction to U. S. Bink
the Court. If it did, the suit could be instituted
,.
only in the Supreme Court. This suit is not to ib Panters
Bank.
sustained because the Planters' Bank is suable in
the federal Courts, but because the plaintiff has a
right to sue any defendant in that Court, who is
not withdrawn from its jurisdiction by the constitution, or by law. The suit is against a corporation, and the judgment is to be satisfied by the
property of the corporation, not by that of the individual corporators. The State does not, by becoming a corporator, identify itself with the corporation. The Planters' Bank of Georgia is not the
State of Georgia, although the State holds an interest in it.
It is, we think, a sound principle, that when a
government bbcomes a partner in any'trading company, it devests itself, so far as concerns the transactions of that company, of its sovereign character, and takes that of a private citizen. Instead
of communicating to the company its privileges
and its prerogatives, it descends to a level with.
those with whom it associates itself, and takes the
character which belongs to its associates, and to
the business which- is to be transacted. Thus,
many'States of this Union who have an interest in
Banks, are not suable even in their own Courts;
yet they never exempt the corporation from being
sued. The State of Georgia, by giving to the
Bank the capaQity to sue and be sued, voluntarily
strips itself of its sovereign character, so far as respects the transactions of the Bank, and waives all

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT.

1824.
.
V. S. Bank
Va
Planters'
Bank.

the privileges of that character.. A6 a member of
corporation, a government never exercises its
sovereignty. It acts merely as a corporator and
exercises no bther power. in the -management of
the affairs ofthe corporatibn, than are. expressly
given by the incorpqrating-ect.
The government of the Union held shares in
the- old Bank of the United States; but the privi-leges of the government were not imparted by
that circumstance to the Bank. The United States
was not a party to suits brought by or against the
Bank in the sonse'of the constitution. So with
respect to the present Bank. Suits brought by or
against it arp not understood to. be brought by or
against the United States. The government, by
becoming a corporator, lays down its' sovereignty
so far as respects the transactions of the corporation, and exercises no power or privilege Which is
not derived from the charter.
We think, then, that the Planters' Baiik of
Georgia -is not exempted from being sued in the
federal Courts, by the circumstance that the State.
is a corporator.
2. We proceed next to inquire, whother the jurisdiction of the Court is ousted by the circumstance, that the notes on which- the suit was institoted, were made payable to citizens of thb State
of Georgia.
Without examining whether,, in this case, the
original promise is not to the bearer, the Court
will proceed to the more general question, whether the Bank, as endorsee, may maintain a suit
-against the maker of a note payable to a citizen of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

909

the State. The words of the Judiciary Act, see- 1824.
tion 11. are, "nor shall any District or Circuit U. S.Bank
the l v.
t srecover
Court have cognizance of any suit,t. , yto
ri e cP
nte rs!
contents of any promissory note, or other chose in Bank.
action, in favour of an assignee, unless a suit
might have been prosecuted in such -Court to recover the said contents, if no assignment had been
made, except in cases of foreign bills of exchange."
This is a limitation on the jurisdiction conferred
by-the JudicaryAct. It was apprehended thatbonds
and notes, given in the usual course of business,
by citizens of the same State, to each other, might
be assigned to the citizens of another State, and
thus render the maker liable to a suit in the federal Courts. - To remove this inconvenience, the
act which gives jurisdiction to the Courts of the
Union over suits brought by the citizen of one
State against the citizen of another, restrains that
jurisdiction, where the suit is brought by an assignee to cases where the suit might have been sustained, had no assignment been made. Butthe
Bank does not sue in virtue of any right conferred
by the Judiciary Act, but in virtue of the right conferred by its charter. It does not sue because the
defendant is a citizen of a different State from any
of its members, but because its charter confers
upon it the right of suing its debtors in a Circuit
Court of the United States
If the Bank could not sue a person. who was a
citizen of the same State with any one of its members, in the Circuit Court, this disability would defeat the power. There is, probably, not a commercial State in the Union, some of whose citizens

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
U. S. Bank

v.
Planters'
Bank.

are not members of the Bank of the.United States,
There is, consequently, scarcely a debt due to the
Bank, for which a suit could be maintained in a federal Court, did the jurisdiction of the Court depend on'citizenship. A genieial power to sue in
any Circuit Court of the United States, expressed
in terms obviously intended to comprehend every
case, would thus be construed to comprehend no
case. Such a construction cannot be the correct
one.
We think, then, that the charter gives to the
Bank a right to sue in' the Circuit Courts of the
United States, without regard to citizenship ; and
that the certificate on both questions must be in
favour of the plaintiff.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON. This cause is one in
-which; from the great importance of the questions
it gave rise to, was certified to this Court, on apro
forma difference of opinion, that it might undergo
the fullest investigation, and give time for the maturest reflection.
The ,first of the points certified, involved the
question of jurisdiction; for my opinion on which,
I must refer to the case of Osbbrnet'al4v.The
.Bank of the United States, argu'ed in conjunction
with this, and decided this term.
That opinion is fiual on the judgment which I
must give in the cause; but ther6 were other questions, which, although not touched upoii in the
argument here, were very ably argued in the
Court below, and on which, having formed an opinion, I will make som remarks.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

911

The-case of The Bankv. Deea x, having.de- 1824.
cided that this Court will look into the individual U3.S. Bank
characteri of the corporators plaintiffs, in order
V.
to give jurisdiction, where it depends on circum- B
stances of the person, it was contended in the
Court below, that this Court was bound, in justice,
to lookbehind the charter of the Bank defendant,
in order to determine the individual characters of
the corporators defendants also. And the pleas
were so drafted, as to exhibit. to the Court two
grounds on which to decide against the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, as depending on individual character. Th6 one was, that a citizen of
one State was suing a citizen of the same State.;
the other, that the State of Georgia was a defendant, being a member of the corporation defendant,
nd was exempt from suit under thb lIth amendment. And on-both these grounds,;I see not how
I can refuse my assent to the doctrine of the pleas.
The case of Deveauz forms, I presume, one of'
the canons of this Court. On no other ground
can that decision be law, but that the individual,
corporators were the real'parties plaintiffs. The
same principle, when applied,to the corporation defendant, will make the individual corporators here
the real defendants to the suit. If, then, the real
plaintiffs and the real defendants are so related in
personal character, as to preclude this Court from
taking jurisdiction, -I see no ground on which we
can sustain the demurrer, unless we reverse the
decision in Deveaux's case.
So, also, with regard to the State of Georgia.
An original suit against that State for'the recovery

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

of a debt, could not be maintained. Yet, if tin
suit against a corporation, be an original
suit against each corporator, I see not wherein the
case differs from that of a. direct suit against the
State. Suppose the case ofa joint bond, given
by a State and individuals, to an individual contractor, citizen of another State, what would except a suit on su'ch a bond from the operation of
the 1 th amendment of the constitution ? If it be
said that the amendment alluded to has regard only to suits instituted against States in their sovereign capacity, I would ask, in what other capacity
can a State appear, or even exist ? In every possible form and shape, it is a sovereign State, or it
is nothing. And this very stock, held in this Bank,
is the property of the people of Georgia, held by
them in the name and capacity of the State of
Georgia. If any dispute were to Wrise 6n the title to the stock, in what capacity could they sue or
be sued for the interest held by them in the stock,
unless in their sovereign capacity ? It is not because it imparts its own immunities to the other
stckholders, that this action cannot be maintained, but because that the judicial power must reach
each and every defendant, in order to bring-a case
within the prescribed limits of the constitution.
Each defendant occupies his own "peculiar rank,
claims his own p ?culiar immunities; but they are
not suable in the Courts of the United States, as
long as any one of them is exempted from suit in
those Cotirts.
I am here expressing a technical opinion, founded on the authority of the oase of 2'h Bank t.

koriginal
U3. S. Bank

v.
Planters'

Bank.

OF THE UNITED STATES..

91

Deveaux. That decision brings it strictly within 18".
the letter of the 11th lhmendment; although
I am U.S. Bank
•
V.
ready to admit, that, unaffected by 'that decision, Plantere
it is not within its purview. Although not respon- BZ..
sidle for that decision, I acknowledge its obligation, until overruled.
The last question which the pleadings in this
cause present, arises out of the nature of the contract, the form of the declaration, and that provision of the Judiciary Act, which precludes suits
by an aisignee of choses in action, when .the suit
could not be brought in the Courts of the United
States, as between the original parties.
The plaintiff counts upon a number of promissory notes, payable to A. B. or bearer, commonly
called bank notes, delivered to A. B., and by him
"transferred, assigned, and set over" to the plaintiffs in this action. The plea states, that, as between the original promisor and promisee, suit
could nothave been brought in the Circuit Courts
ofithe United States ; and, therefore, it cannot, as
between the present parties, the promisor and assignee. As all the facts are admitted by the demurrer, it is difficult to see on what ground this
case is to be excepted from the operation of the
provisions of the Judiciary Act on this subject.
Whatever difficulties may be suggested, on the
technical meaning of the term assignment, it fis
very clear that he who acquires a chose in action,
by mere delivery, has been reco'nised in the laws
of the United States as an assignee. If any considerations could be introduced into the case, besides what the pleadings bring out, there might be
VOL.jX.

15~

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT, &c.

1824.
B,.
Planters'
Bank.

much reason to doubt, whether the case of Bank
bills, properly so called, and particularly so dedared on, came within the general law applicable
to promissory notes; but here, zon constat, that
the notes declared upon were ever thrown into
circulation, as'the representative of property, as a
currency, a substitute for gold and silver.
But the case does not rest here. This ground
of defence depends not on a .constitutional provision, but on an act of Congress; and if it be true,
that the unrestricted right to sue on all its contracts, be vested in the Bank of the United States,
whatever their origin, or whatever their amount,
it follows, that such a provision amounts to a repeal of the law here relied on. I ratherthink,
that the improbability of such a provision being
intended by the Legislature, operates against the
construction that would sustain it. But if such
be the legal construction of the incorporating act,
there can be no doubt of its being thtal to this plea.
CERTIFICATE.
This cause came on to be heard
on the transci'ipt of the record of the Circuit C6urt
of the United States for the district of Georgia,
and on the questions in said cause, on which the
Judges of the said Circuit Court were divided in
opinion, and was argued by counsel: On consideiation whereof, this Court is of opinion, 1. That
the averments in tlie declaratidn, in said cause, are
sufficient in law to give the said Circuit Court jurisdiction in said cause.
2. That, on the pleadings in the same, the
plaintiffs are entitled to judgment.
All which is ordered to be certified to the said
Circuit Court.

