~.5fjCASES

IN THE SUPREME COl R'i

1824.
Baits
V.

Peters.

[EXTINCUISUMENT.]

BAITS V. PETERS & STEBBINS.
A covenant, under seal, to come to.a settlement withirt a limited
time, and to pay the balance which might be found due, is mere]y
collateral, and cannot be pleaded as an extinguishment of a simple
contract debt, the period, within which the settlement wits to be
made, having elapsed before the commencement of the suit, and
the plea not averring that any such settlement had been madr.

ERROR to thb Distiict Couri of Alabama.
This was an action of assumpsit, commenced
in the Court below, in February, 1821, by Baits,
the plantiff in error, against Peteks & Stebbins;
the defendants in error,'in which the plaintiff declared against the defendants, upoxi.an agreement
to account with him for goods delivered by hiin to
the defendants, for sale on commission, and also
for money had and received, and upon an in imUl
computassent. The defendants pleaded the o lowing pleas: 1st. The general issue. 2d. Payment. 3d. An agreement, under seal, made at
New-York,'on the 15th of July, 1820, and long
after the said promises and undertaking, between
the plaintiff and one of the defendants, by which
the plaintiff covenanted not to sue the defendants
within six months, and to send on an agent, within
the same.term of time, to settle the accounts with
the defendants, at Blakely, in Alabama; and the
defendants covenanted to come to a settlement

OF THE UNITED STATES.

55'7

with the said agent, and to pay the balance which
should be found to be due. To this last plea
there was a demurrer, and, judgment being rendered thereon, by the Court below, for the defendants, the cause was brought by writ of error
to this Court.

1824.

The cause was argued by Mr. Wheaton, fbr the
plaintiff in error, no counsel appearing for the
defendants in error. He argued that the agreement thus pleaded in bar, as an extinguishment,
was not a sufficient bar to the action, but was
merely a collateral underfaking, which did not
extinguish the original demand.0

Feb. 20th

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court, that the third plea was bad.
The agreement stated in that plea, although under
seal, did not operate as an extingui.nent of the
simple contract debt. The agreement was but a
collateral undertaking, to come to a settlement
within a limited period, which had elapsed before
the commencement of the suit, and to pay the
balance found due upon such settlement. There
was no averment in the plea that any such settlement had been had, under that agreement, and,
consequently, the covenant to pay the balance did
not appear to have attached upon the demand.
a The Bank of Columbia v. Patterson, 7 Cranch, 299. 303.
Day v. Leal, 14 Johns. Rep. 40.1.

V.
Peter

