469)

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

parties to the bill praying a sale of the glebe, than
the individuals residing9 within the county. Both
were represented in. the onl way known to the
laws, by the Vestry duly appointed to manage
parochiar concerns.
. These are some of the reasons which -have led
the Court to the conclusion that has been already
stated, to wit, that the Vestry oft the church in
•Alexandria is, in succession, the regular Vestry
of the parish of Fairfax.
-This decision renders it unnecessary to consider the other points raised at the argument;
and it remains only to declare, that the judgment
of this Court .is, that the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bil, be affirmed with costs.

1824.
Doddridge

v.

Thompson.

[LockA LAW.]

DODDRIDGE v. THOMPSON

and others.

Under the reserve contained in the cession act of Virginia, and under
the acts of Congressof August 10th, 1790, ch. 67. [xl.] and *of
June 9th, 1794, ch. 9Z841xii.] the whole country bing between ai
Scioto and Litte Miami rjvers, was subjected to the military warrants, to satisfy which the reserve was made.
The territory lying between two rivers, is the whole country from their
sources to their mouths; and if no branch of either of them has acqui.red the name, exclusive of another, the main branch, to its
source, must bq considered as the true river.
The actof June 6th, 1812 ch.432. [cix.] to ascertain the western
boundary of the tract reserved for the military warrants, and which
provisionally designate ud4ow'.q line aq thri wrqtrn linnlary, did

CASES IN TIE SUPREME' COURT

I 82.1.

not invalidate the title to land I)Ptwccn that line and Roberts'

Sline, acquired under a Virginia military warrant, ipresious to tho
Doddridge
pa,;atge of that art.
* .
The land beta en Ludlo's and. Robrts' line wa not withdrawn
Thompson.
from the territory liable to be surveyed for military warrants, by
any act of Congress passed betore the act of June 20th, 1815, ch.
43 - . [cix.]

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Obio.
March 0h.

This cause was argued by Mr. Clay, for the
plaintiffs, and by the Attorney-General, for the
defendants.

3arch l6th.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court.
Both parties in this cause claim under grants
made by the United Str .es, in that tract of country which was reserve by Virginia, opt of her
cession to Congress, for the purpose of satisfying
the claims of her officers and soldiers- on contin'ental establishment. The reserve was at first
dependent on a deficiency of good. land, to satisfy
those claims, in a territory reserved for the same
objects in Kentucky, which was then a part of
Virginia; but th'e necessity of making this fact
appear, was afterwards dispensed with, and the
deficiency wyas admitted to exist. The plaintiff,
having the oldest patent, has, of course,. the better
title, if his patent be valid.
A case was agreed in the Circuit Court, on
which apro forma judgment was rendered for
the defendant, which is now before this Court on
a writ of error.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

471

The plaintiff claims under a military warrant, 1824.
issued to one of the officers of the Virginia line, Ddig
Doddridgc"
on continental establishment; and the defendant,
v.
Thompson.
States,
United
the
from
made
under a purchase
subsequent to the emanation bf the plaintiff's
grant. The first question made in the cause is,
whether the land in controversy be within the Virginia reserve.- The words are, that if the quantity of land reserved, on the soith-east side of the
Ohio, "for the Virginia :roops .oncontinental establishment, should prove insufficient for their
legal bounties, the deficiency should be made up
to the said troops,.-in good -lands between the
Scioto and Little Miami."
In 1790, Congress passed an acta in which,
after reciting that the agents for the troops of
Virginia had reported, to the Xxecutive of that
State, that there was a deficiency of good lands
in the territory reserved on the south-east of the
Ohio, and, after directing the Secretary of War
iomake a return to the Executive of that State
of the number of officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates, who served in the Virginia line
on continental establishment, it is enacted, "that
it shall and may be lawful for the said agents to
locate, to and for the use of the said troops, between the rivers Scioto and Little Miami, such a
number of acres of good land, as shall, together
with the number already located between the said
two rivers, and tlhe number alreadly located on the
§outh-easterly side of the river Ohio, be equal to
a 2 U. S. L. 179-

472
1824.
'

Doddridge
Thompson.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the aggregate amount so to be returned, as aforesaid, by the Secretary of the Department of War."

In June, 1794, Congress passed another acta

on this subject, declaring that every officer and
soldier of the Virginia line, on continental establishment, entitled to bounty lands, between the
Scioto and Little Miami rivers, " shall, on producing %thewarrant, or a certified copy thereof,
and a certificate under the seal of the office where
the said warrants are legally kept, that the same,
or a part thereof, remains unsatisfied; and Qn producing the survey, agreeably to the laws of Virginia, for tile tract or tracts to which he or they
may be entitled, as aforesaid, to the Secretary of
the Department of War, such officer and soldier,
his or their heirs or assigns, shall be entitled to,
and receive a patent for the same, from the President of the United States."
Under these acts the plaintiff's patent was
'issued: It is not, we think, to be questioned,
that under the reserve contained in the cession act
of Virginia, and under the acts of Congress
which have been recited, the whole country lying
between the Scioto and Little Mliami was subjected to the military warrants, to satisfy which the
reserve was made, and any part of it might be surveyed for any person holding such warrant. What,
is the extent of this country ?
The plaintiff contends, that it is the territo *'between the Ohio, into which both rivers empty, and
a line to be drawn from the soire of the main
. a 2 U. . L. 440.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

473

branch of one iiver to the source of the main 1824.
themselves, from Doddridge
branch of.the other, and the rivers
•
v.
their sources to their mouths.
Thompson.
Litthe
than
river
longer
much
a
ii
The Scioto
tle Mianii, and the defendant has suggested, that
the country reserved may be limited by the Ohio
on one side, and a line drawn from the source of
the Miami to the Scioto, which shall be parallel
with the Ohio, on the opposite side. But this suggestion has not been prested ; and the idea it conveys, is directly opposed to the words of the reserve,
and the constructionivhich hasbeen uniformly given
to the-deed of cession by both the contracting parties. The territory lying between two rivers, is
the whole country, from*their sources to their
mouths; and if no fork of either of them has acquired the name, in exclusion of another, the main
branch, to its source, must be considered as the
true river. Any other rule would be arbitrary,
depending on caprice, not on principle.; and the
whole legislation of Congress upon the subject
shows, we think, a disposition to be guided by
this r'easonable rule.
We are relieved from the inquiry respecting the
main branches, of these rivdrs, by the case agreed,
whicIf finds a map, certified by the commissioner
of the land office, dated the 26th of February,
1820 ; and that aline on the said map, marked and
thereon described as Roberts' line, represents a
line extending from the source of the Little Miami
to the sdurce ofthe Scioto, and that the sot~rces of
both rivers are truly shown thereon.
Admitting this line.to con Ituie the true bounVoL. IX.

60

.474

CASES IN THE SUPILEME COURT

•1824. - dary of the military reserve, the land in controverD
td lies Within it; and the plaintiff's patent would,
V. consequently, be valid, if it depended entirely on
Ompso. the, original deed .ofcession, and the acts of Congress which have been' recited. 'But the defendant's counsel contends, that as the plaintiff's title
was to be derived from the "government of the
Union, it must bave been obtained conformably to
-the laws of the United States,.or. is invalid.
It has been very truly observed, that, while the
government of the Union is to be considered an
holding the territory ceded by Virginia, in trust
for the.oificers arid soldiers of the Virginia line, so
-far as the -reservation for-their benefit extends, it is
also to be considered -asbolding the lands not reserved, in trust.for the natio'i ; and as being bound
by its high duties to execute that trust. Congress,
therefore, found it necessary to provide for the sale
of the territory not included within the reserve;
and its laws made for this purpose may control,
and have controlled, the original rights of the mili-.
tary claimants, and have established a line between
thd sources of the Scioto and Little Miami, different from that for -which the plaintiff contends.
Without questioning the power of the government,- the Court will proceed to inquire whether
qongress has passed any law, contracting the militaryreserve within -narrower linits than are prescribed by the deed of cession, as herein construed, or has made any provision which, in any manner, affects the plaintiff's grant .
In May, 1785, Congress. passed " a n ordinance
for ascertaining the mode of granting lands in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

475

western territory," in which; for the purpose of se- 1824.
curing to the officers and soldiers of the Virginia Doddxidg¢
T.
line, on continental establishment, the bounties
granted them by that State, it is ordained', "that Thompn.
no part of the land 'between the rivers called Little
Miami and Scidto,".oa the north-west side of the
river Ohio, be .sold, or in any manner alienated,
until there shall first have been laid off and appropriated for the said officers and soldiers, and persons claiming under them, the lands they are entitled to, agreeably to the said deed of cession, and
act of Congress accepting the same."
In May, 1796, Congress .passed an act0 for the
survey and sale of these lands, directing the appointment of a Surveyor General, whose duty it
should be "to survey and mark the unascertained
outlines of the lands lying north-west of the river
Ohio, and above the mouth of the river Kentucky,
in whicli the titles of the Indian tribes have been
extinguished, and to divide the same in the manner hereinafter directed"
The 2d section enacts, "that the part of the
said land which. has not been already conveyed,"
&c., "or which has not been heretofore, and during the present session of Congress may not be,
appropriated for satisfying military land bounties,
and for other purposes, shall be dividec," &c.
This law, then, vhich gives to the Surveyor Genersi his authority to survey the country generally,
and to lay off the lands as prescribed in the act,
excludes from this general authority all lands prea 2 U.S.LZ. 533.

CASES IN THE SUPREI1E" COURT

1824. Viously appropriated for militay land ,bounties,
"Uaddridge and for other purp6ses; and, consequently, exV.
cludes the lands between the Sci'oto.ana the'Little

Thompson. Miami.

In May, 1800; Congress passed an act0 providing
further for the sale of these lands, and establishing for that purpose four land officea. The places
at which 'these offices shall be fixed are designated
in the act, atd the district, of country attached to
each, is described. Neither of these districts comprehends. any lands between the Scioto and the
Little Miami. The Surveyor General was not
aufhorizied to survey any lands within the military
reserve, norwtts the sale of such lands authorized at
anyof the land offices. Inthe execution of this.act,
the Surveyor General caused a line to be ffin from
the source of the Little Miami towards what he stqpposed to be the source of the Scioto, which is denominated Ludlow's line, and surveyed tliq lands
west of that line in .sections and parts of sectiona
as prescribed in the act of Congress.
In March, 1804, b Congress passed a law for ascertaini'ng the .boandary of the-land reserved by
the Stat6 of Virginia for military bounties, which
pnacts, "that the line run under the.direction of
,the Surveyor General of the .United States, from
the source of the Little Miami towards tie source
•of the 1cioto, and wlhich bids,. on the east, the
surveys of the lands of the United States, shall,
together with its course continued to the Scioto river, be 'considered and held as the westerly bouna 3 U..L.385.
3 U. 8.L 592

OF THE UNITED STATES.

477

dary line, north of the source of the Little Miami, 1824.
of the territory reserved. by the Stateof Virginia,
.. 'Dodlrej
between the Little Miami and the Scioto rivers,
v.
for the use of the officers atid soldiers of the continental line of that tate : Provided, that the State
of Virginia shall, within two years after the passing
of this act, recognise such line as the boundary of
the said territory." The line mentioned in this
act, is called.Ludlow's line.
This act shows, we think, very clearly, that.
Congress did not mean to assert a power to fix the
western boundary of the military reserve. The
deed of cession, and the act of acceptance, were
considered as forming a contract respecting a territory, the western line of which could not, at the
time, be fixed with precision, and which was unavoidably described in terms requiring subsequent
3xplanation and adjustment. This adjustment
was to be made, not by one of the parties, but by
both; and this act is an essay -towards it. Congress makes a proposition to Vi'ginia, hy which
the United States are tb be bound, provided Virginia accepts it within two years. If it be not
accepted within that time, the parties stand on
their original rights, -as if.it had never been made.
This is a very fair and equitable proceeding on
the part of the government, and is founded on
the idea that the rights of the parties are equal.
Had Virginia accepted this proposition, it would
have becoiie a contract, and Ludlow's line would
have been -established as the western boundary
of the military reserve; the land in controversy
lying west of that line, would not have been
liable to be surveyed to satisfy the plaintiff's war-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

rant. But Vi-ginia did not accept the propositioi,
and the rights of the parties remained as if it had
v.
never been made.
In 1812,aCongress made another effort to estaThompson.
1824.

'€ "-"
Doddridge

blish this line. The President was authorized to
appoint three commissioners, to meet commissioners to be appointed by Virginia, who were -to
agree on the western line of the military reserve,
and to cause the same-to be surveyed and marked
out. Should commissioners from Virginia fail to
meet them, they were to proceed alone, and make
their report to the Executive. In the mean time,
and until the iine should be established by consent,
Ludlow's line was to be considered as constituting
the western boundary of the Virginia reserve.
The commissioners of the United States were
met by those of Virginia, and they proceeded to
ascertain the sources of the two rivers, and employed aMr. Charles Roberts to survey and mark
a line, from the source of one to that of the other.
This line is called Roberts' line, is reported by
the commissioners to the Executive, and is found,
in the case agreed, to represent truly a line drawn
from the source of the Little Miami to the source
of the Scioto. The Virginia commissioners, howeverl efused to accede to this line, and claimed to
run, from the source of the Scioto, a straight line
to the mouth of "the Little Miami; which would
pass south of that river, and include a "considerable tract of country not lying between that river
and the Scioto. This demand prevented an agree-

a 4 U.S. L. 455.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

479

went establishing Roberts' line; and as thd act of 1824.
June, 1812, provisionally designated Ludlow's
line as the western boutidary of' the reserve, unfil
v.

one should bb fizally established, with the consent Thampsgi.

of Virginia, it reniains-the botimiirry.fbr the present. Had the -plaintiff's title beei-acquired subsequent to the. passage of this act, there would
be much force in the objection to it; but it..was
acquired before-this act .passed, and ci.nnot, wcthink, b eaffected by it.. Congress cEnnot have
intended to annul, by a legislative, act, a title
which was valid at the time; and a law which doe.
not express that intention ought not to have that
effect given to it byconstruction. If the words of
the act of 1804 were doubtful, which they are not,
the act of 1812 would expound them, and show
that noteven a temporary boundary had been pre-.
viously fixed. The appointment of commissioners to meet others to be appointed by Virginia, who
were to agree upon and mark the true line, and the
establishment of a tempotary line till such agreement should be made, prove incontestably, that
Congregs did not suppose the'ine to be established.
Had the commissioners from Virginia assented to
the .equitable proposition. made' by tho~e of the
United States, the plaintiff's .patent, founded on
a survey made before that time, would be admitted to be unassailable. . -And ytit the land was, - in
fact, within the tdrritory actually reserved at the
time the survey was made, and no law had then
passed substituting any oiher line for the true one.
The act of 1812 does not look back, and annul.
existing titl6s; it is entirely prospedtive, aid leaves

480

CASES IN THE-SUPREME COURT

1824.
'€'%a
Doddridge

V.

TIPmpson.

prior titles as it found them. If, then,.there be no
other act of Congress, which impairs this patent,
it must be considered as valid.
The defendant contends that there are previous
acts, by which the land between Ludlow's and
Roberts' lines w°as withdrawn from the territory
liable to be surveyed for military warrants. The
act of 1804, already mentioned, enacts, "that all
officers and soldiers, or their legal representatives,
entitled to bounty lands 'within the above mentioned reserved territory shall complete their locations within three years after the passing of this
act," and that the locations made within .tlat part
of the territory to which'the Indiqn title has been
extinguished, shall be surveyed, and 4he surveys
returned to the Departm'efnt of War, within fiye
years. The 3d section provides, that such parfs
of the territory as shall not have been located, and
such part as shall not have been surveyed, and
the surveys returned to the Department of War,
within the times prescribed. by the act, shall be
released from any claim for such bounty lands,
and shall be disposed of in conformity with the
laws passed for that purpose.
In. March, 1807, an act passed, giving three
years farther time for making locations, and five
years farther time for making and returning surveys ;" Provided, that no locations, as aforesaid,
within the above mentioned tract, shall, after the
passing of this act, be made on tracts of land for
whiCh patents had previously been issued,* or
ovhi.h had beei prtvioutly .urveyed ; and any
paWnt Wbiok my noverthoeles be obtained, for

. OF TIE UNITED STATES.

land located contrary to the provisions of this sec-

1824.

tion, shall be considered as null and void."
Doddfidge
v.
was
surveys
and
locations
The time for making
Thmpson.
containing
subsequent-acts
by
farther extended,
the same "prQviso.
The. defendant contends that this proviso comprehends the land previously surveyed by the
Surveyor General of the United States.
We do not concur in this opinion, for several
reasons.

The words refer to the whole military reserve,
and seem intended to apply to surveys which might
be made throughout that entire tract of country,
not to the land surveyed in townships, sections,
and parts of sections, by the United States, west
of Ludlow's line. There were such surveys.
The records of this Court show, that .many controversies were produced in that country, by the
mode of locating - and surveying military lands,
which had been adopted unde'r the laws of Virginia; and it is not unreasonable to suppose, that
*Congress, when giving farther time to make locations and surveys, might be disposed to cure the
defects in titles already acquired, and to prevent
second locations on lands already located. The
words of the proviso too are adapted to the saving
of private rights.
It has great influence, we think, on this question, that if the proviso be construed to comprehend the surveys made by the United States, it
would amount to the establishment of Ludlow's
line; for those surveys were made up to that line,
and would indirectly curtail the Virginia military
VOL. IX.

61

482

CASES IN THE.-SUPREDE COURT

1824.

reserve. This was obviously not, at that time,
~ the intention of the government. Subsequent to
Doddridge
d.d
Thompson.

this period, in 1812, commissioners
were ap-

pointed for the purpose of, agreeing with those of
Virginia on the true line, and marking it; who
were directed "to note the intersections, if any,
of said line with any surveys heretofore authorized
by the United States." Congress was induced to
give farther time for making these locations and
surveys, by a just sense of tie real difficulties attending the completion of titles in that country,
and an equitable regard for the rights of the
claimants. There can be no reason to suppose
that it was intended to withdraw one part of the
country from these claims more than, another.
-Ifthis intention had existed, it would have been
manifested in more intelligible and direct words.
Instead of the ambiguous language used in this
proviso, all locations would have been restrained
beyond Ludlow's line; Congress would have
avowed its intention in plain terms, and would
have' effected its object by direct means. But
the course of legislation which has been pursued
on this subject, the scrupulous regard which t.ho
government has shown to the conditions on which
the cession of Virginia was made, the liberal and
fait offers of the United States, for adjusting the
real extent of the reserve, -forbid a construction
which would indirectly abridge that reserve.
But were it to be admitted that the proviso does
comprehend the lands between the lines surveyed
by Roberts and Ludlow, that admission could knot
affect this cause. The words of the proviso are,
"that no locationsskar be made on tract s of land.

OF THlE UNITED STATES.

483

fbr which patents had been previously issued, or 1824.
which haa been previously surveyed." The pro- "'I
V.
hibition respects future locations, not future surTayloe.
locathis
shiwwhen
veys; and the case does not
tion was Made. It might have been made previous
to the passage of the act of 1807; and the pre-,
sumption of law is, that it was made before that
time, since the patent is presumed to be valid,
until the contrary is shown.
On both points, the Court is of opinion that the
law upon this case is for the 15laintiff, and that the
judgment of the Circuit Court, in favour of the
defbndants, must be reversed, and judgment entered for the plaintiff.
Judgment reversed.

RIGGS V. TAYLOE.
If a party intend to use a written instrument in evidence, he must
produce the original, if in his possession. But if it is in the possession of the otherparty, who refuses to produce it, after notice,
or if the original is lost or destroyed, secondary evidence (being
the best which the nature of the case allows) will be admitted.
The party, in such case, may read a counterl art; or, if there is no
counterpart, an examined copy; or, iftno such copy, may give
parol evidence of the contents.
Where a writing has been voluntarily destroyed, for fraudulent purposes, or to create an excuse for its non-production, secondary evi-

