OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement' of the Case.

323 U. S.

BUSBY ET AL. v. ELECTRIC UTILITIES EMPLOYEES
UNION, ETC.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 74. Argued November 17, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.
1. The "law applied in the District of Columbia," which by Rule
81 (e) of the Rules of Civil Procedure governs proceedings in the
District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia
whenever under the Rules the "law of the state" is made applicable,
is derived from the common law and statutes of Maryland in force
at the time of the cession of the District to the United States, as
modified by statutes of Congress and as determined and developed
by the courts of the District. P. 73.
2. Under the provision of Rule 17 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure which permits suit against an unincorporated association
for the enforcement of "a substantive right existing under the
Constitution or laws of the United States," a certified question
whether an unincorporated labor union is suable in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia in an
action of debt can not arise in the present suit unless it first be
decided that under the law of the District of Columbia an unincorporated labor union is without capacity to be sued in its own name;
and that question of local law should be decided by the courts of
the District of Columbia before this Court is called upon to decide
it. P. 74.
3. On certificate from the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia under 28 U. S. C. ยง 346, this Court does not
answer a question of law which would be decisive of the cause only
in the event that a question of local law, not answered by the
Court of Appeals and inappropriate for this Court to consider in
the first instance, receives one answer rather than another. P. 75.
Dismissed.
CERTIFICATE

from the United States Court of Appeals

for the District of Columbia upori an appeal to that court
from a judgment of the District Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia dismissing the com-

BUSBY v. ELECTRIC UTILITIES UNION.

73

Opinion of the Court.

72

plaint in an action of debt against an unincorporated labor
union.
Mr. WarrenE. Magee for Busby et al.
Mr. John J. Carmody for the Electric Utilities Employees Union, etc.
PER CUBIAM.

In this case the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia, pursuant to Judicial Code, ยง 239, 28 U. S. C.
ยง 346, has certified to this Court the following question:
"Is an unincorporated Labor Union, with its principal
office in the District of Columbia, suable as such in an
action in debt brought against it in the District Court of
the United States for the District of Columbia, where
service of process is duly had upon its President at its
principal office?"
Rule 17 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States provides, in the case of
a party other than an individual or a corporation., that:
"capacity to sue or be sued shall be determined by the law
of the state in which the district court is held; except that
a partnership or other unincorporated association, which
has no such capacity by the law of such state, may sue or
be sued in its common name for the purpose of enforcing
for or against it a substantive right existing under the
Constitution or laws of the United States."
By Rule 81 (e), the "law of the state" in proceedings
in the District Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia is "the law applied in the District of Columbia." That law is derived from the common law and
statutes of Maryland in force at the time of the cession
of the District to the United States, as modified by statutes of Congress and as determined and developed by the
courts of the District. Act of February 27, 1801, 2 Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

103; Armstrong v. Lear, 12 Wheat. 169, 176; McKenna
v. Fisk, 1 How. 241, 249.
Under these Rules, a plaintiff may proceed in the District Court for the District of Columbia against an unincorporated labor union in its common name if, by the law
of the District, it has capacity to be sued as such. Only
if it be decided that by the local law such a union does
not have capacity to be sued in its own name need there
be consideration of the second part of Rule 17 (b), which
permits a suit against an unincorporated association for
the enforcement of "a substantive right existing under the
Constitution or laws of the United States."
The certificate in this case discloses that the Court of
Appeals is in doubt as to the meaning and application of
the rule laid down in United Mine Workers v. Coronado
Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344, 383-392, and the effect upon it
of the second part of Rule 17 (b); cf. Brown v. United
States, 276 U. S. 134, 141; Puerto Rico v. Russell & Co.,
288 U. S. 476, 480-482, 483-484; Moflat Tunnel League
v. United States, 289 U. S. 113, 118. But under Rules 17
and 81 of the Rules of Civil Procedure, as we have said,
that question cannot arise in the present suit, unless it is
first decided that under the law of the District an unincorporated labor union is without capacity to be sued in
its own name. And we do not understand the certificate
to seek our aid in the determination of this question of
local law.
In any event, we think it appropriate that the question
of local law should be answered by the courts of the District before this Court is called upon to answer it, or to
consider the application and effect of the second part of
Rule 17 (b) in an action in debt brought in the District
of Columbia against an unincorporated labor union.
There are cogent reasons why this Court should not undertake to decide questions of local law without the aid of
some expression of the views of judges of the local courts

BUSBY v. ELECTRIC UTILITIES UNION.
72

75

Opinion of the Court.

who are familiar with the intricacies and trends of local
law and practice. We do not ordinarily decide such questions without that aid where they may conveniently be
decided in the first instance by the court whose special
function it is to resolve questions of the local law of the
jurisdiction over which it presides. Huddleston v. Dwyer,
322 U. S. 232, 237, and cases cited. Only in exceptional
cases will this Court review a determination of such a
question by the Court of Appeals for the District. District of Columbia v. Pace, 320 U. S. 698, 702, and cases
cited.
It is not the function of the certificate authorized by 28
U. S. C. ยง 346 to require this Court to answer questions
not shown to be necessary to the decision of the case. A
question will not be answered if it is hypothetical, Webster v. Cooper, 10 How. 54, 55; Pelham v. Rose, 9 Wall.
103, 107; White v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 367, 373; Lowden
v. Northwestern National Bank Co., 298 U. S. 160, 162163, or if it is dependent upon other questions which may
not appropriately be answered, Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S.
426, 432-433, 435; Lowden v. Northwestern National
Bank Co., supra, 166. This Court will not answer a question which will not arise in the pending controversy unless another issue, not yet resolved by the certifying court,
is decided in a particular way. Triplett v. Lowell, 297
U. S. 638, 647-649; Webster v. Cooper, supra, 55; cf.
United States v. Buzzo, 18 Wall. 125, 129.
We do not answer the question as to the effect of the
second part of Rule 17 (b), since the answer will be decisive of the case only in the event that a question of local
law, not answered by the Court of Appeals and inappropriate for us to consider in the first instance, receives one
rather than another answer. We have no occasion to discuss the meaning and application of the rule of the Coronado case or the second part of Rule 17 (b), which are
relevant only for the purpose of answering the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER, J,,

concurring.

323 U. S.

which, as we have said, we cannot properly answer. The
certificate is accordingly dismissed.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

I join in the per curiam on the assumption that after
the Court of Appeals will have disposed of all issues to
be decided by local District of Columbia law nothing will
be left in the certified question for this Court to answer.
This is a suit for a lawyer's fee, that is, an ordinary
District of Columbia common law action of debt and not
one to enforce "a substantive right existing under the
Constitution or laws of the United States." For, I take
it, in allowing an unincorporated association to be sued
"in its common name for the purpose of enforcing . . .
a substantive right existing under the . . .laws of the
United States," Rule 17 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure

referred to laws of general applicability throughout the
United States and not to the body of local law governing
the District of Columbia. Therefore, suability of an unincorporated labor union is a local procedural problem to be
determined, according to Rule 17 (b) in conjunction with
Rule 81 (e), by the local law of the District. That "the
suability of trades unions . . .is after all in essence and
principle' merely a procedural matter" is vouched for by
the Coronado case, 259 U. S. 344, 390, the scope of which
has been authoritatively defined in Brown v. United
States, 276 U. S. 134, 141 and Moffat Tunnel League v.
UnitedStates, 289 U. S. 113, 118. Since substantive rights
were outside the authority given by Congress for pre-

scribing rules of civil procedure, Rule 17 (b) and the note
thereto by the Advisory Committee on Rules, by dealing
with capacity to sue or be sued, decisively confirm the

BARBER v. BARBER.
72

Syllabus.

statement in the Coronado case that the suability of a
trade union is a procedural matter.
But if such a procedural matter may be cast in the form
of a substantive issue for the determination of status, it
would, in this case in any event, be a question of the substantive law of the District and not raise any substantive issue of federal law. If a suit like this were
brought in the District Court for the Southern District
of New York under diversity jurisdiction, no conceivable
question other than that of the procedural or substantive
law of the State of New York could arise. No federal
question is infused into the litigation because such a local
suit was brought in the District of Columbia.
In view of the increase in the volume and the complexity of the business that is coming to this Court, and the
bearing of this increase upon the proper discharge of its
work (see Ex parte Peru, 318 U. S. 578, 602-604), I deem
it important to avoid any encouragement however slight
to futile resort to this Court.

BARBER v. BARBER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 51.

Argued November .9, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.

1. Upon review here of a judgment of a court of one State refusing
to give full faith and credit to a judgment of a court of another,
the sufficiency of the grounds of refusal is for this Court to determine. P. 81.
2. Upon review here of a decision of a court of one State involving
the law of another, a federal right being asserted, it is the duty of
this Court to determine for itself the law of such other State. P. 81.
3. A duly authenticated judgment of a court of general jurisdiction of
another State is prima facie evidence of the jurisdiction of the court
to render it and of the right which it purports to adjudicate. P. 86.
4. A money judgment of a court of North Carolina for arrears of
alimony, not by its terms conditional and on which execution was
directed to issue, held, under the law of that State, not subject to

