582

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 U. S.

F. W. FITCH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 181. Argued December 13, 1944.-Decided January 15, 1945.
1. Under § 603 of the Revenue Act of 1932, which imposed on toilet
preparations sold by manufacturers or producers an excise tax of
a stated percentage of the selling price, held that advertising and
selling expenses were not excludable from the selling price in computing the tax. P. 584.
2. In computing the selling price for purposes of the tax levied by
§ 603 of the Revenue Act of 1932, § 619 (a) provides on certain
conditions for the exclusion of "A transportation, delivery, insurance, installation, or other charge ...." Held that the term "other

charge" does not embrace advertising and selling expenses. P. 584.
3. By the rule of ejusdem generis, applicable here since it does not
conflict with the general purpose of the statute, the term "other
charge" in § 619 (a) is limited to expenses similar in character to
those incurred for transportation, delivery, insurance, and 'installation-all of which are incurred subsequent to the preparation of
an article for shipment and are not included in the manufacturer's
f. o. b. selling price. P. 585.
4. The construction here given the Act accords with the consistent
administrative construction and is required by accepted rules of
statutory construction. P. 586.
5. It is not for the courts to afford relief from such inequalities and
discriminations as inevitably result where a flat tax is measured by
wholesale selling prices. P. 586.
6. Section 619 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1932 is inapplicable where
sales were made at wholesale, and does not require a different result
from that here reached. P. 587.
141 F. 2d 380, affirmed.

post, p. 690, to review the reversal of a judgment for the taxpayer, 52 F. Supp. 292, in a suit for a tax
refund.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Arnold F. Schaetzle, with whom Mr. James M.
Stewart was on the brief, for petitioner.

FITCH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
582

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Andrew D. Sharpe, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
and Messrs. Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch were on
the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Joseph H. Choate, Jr. and Maurice Leon filed
a brief as amici curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Section 603 of the Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat.
169, 261, Internal Revenue Code § 3401, imposes on toilet
preparations sold by manufacturers or producers an excise
tax equivalent to stated percentages "of the price for which
so sold." Petitioner was subject to this tax from October
1, 1936, to June 30, 1939, and has sought a refund of a
portion of the tax paid on the ground that its selling and
advertising expenses should have been excluded from the
selling prices in computing the tax. The District Court
after trial upheld this claim and awarded a refund, 52 F.
Supp. 292, but the court below reversed that judgment, 141
F. 2d 380. The alleged conflict with the decisions of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Canpana Corp. v. Harrison,114 F. 2d 400, and CampanaCorp.
v. Harrison,135 F. 2d 334, led us to grant certiorari.
The controversy here centers about § 619 (a) of the Act,
which provides for the inclusion and exclusion of certain
items in computing the selling price for purposes of the
tax levied by § 603 as well as various other sections. Section 619 (a) states that, in computing the sales price,
". .. there shall be included any charge for coverings
and containers of whatever nature, and any charge incident to placing the article in condition packed ready for
shipment, but there shall be excluded the amount of tax
imposed by this title, whether or not stated as a separate

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

charge. A transportation, delivery, insurance, installation, or other charge (not required by the foregoing sentence to be included) shall be excluded from the price only
if the amount thereof is established to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner, in accordance with the regulations."
Petitioner contends that advertising and selling expenses fall within the term "other charge" appearing in
the last sentence of § 619 (a) and hence are excludable in
determining the selling price for tax purposes. This claim,
however, is refuted by both the spirit and the letter of this
statutory provision.
Congress sought in the Revenue Act of 1932 to use the
manufacturer's or wholesaler's selling price, rather than
the retail price, as the measure of the excise taxes imposed
by § 603. 75 Cong. Rec. 11383, 11657. Section 619 (a)
was designed to lay down specific rules for determining
this selling price, especially in relation to costs incurred
after the article itself had been manufactured. It provides for the use of the manufacturer's or producer's f. o. b.
price at the factory or place of production. In essence, all
manufacturing and other charges incurred prior to the
actual shipment of an article and reflected separately or
otherwise in the f. o. b. wholesale price are to be included
in the sale price underlying the tax, while all charges incurred subsequent thereto are to be excluded. Hence any
additional charge which a purchaser would not be required
to pay if he accepted delivery of the article at the factory
or place of production may be so excluded. See H. Rep.
No. 708 (72d Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 37; S.Rep. No. 665, Part
3 (72d Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 3; H. Conf. Rep. No. 1492 (72d
Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 22.
Advertising and selling expenses incurred by a manufacturer such as petitioner clearly fall within the class
of charges which Congress intended to be included in the
tax base. Regardless of whether we consider such ex-

FITCH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
582

Opinion of the Court.

penses technically as manufacturing costs, it is obvious
that they are incurred prior to the actual shipment of
articles to wholesale purchasers and that they enter into
the composition of the wholesale selling price. Even if the
purchaser accepts delivery at the factory, he pays for the
advertising and selling expenses. Thus they must be
included in the taxable sales price.
The inclusion of these expenses is plainly warranted by
the language of § 619 (a). Pre-shipment charges relative
to coverings, containers and placing an article in condition
for shipment are specifically included in the determination
of the selling price. But a subsequent "transportation,
delivery, insurance, installation, or other charge" is to be
excluded if properly established. In the setting of this
case, no rule of reason or grammar justifies placing advertising and selling expenses within the meaning of this
exclusionary sentence.
To begin with, advertising and selling expenses are
obviously not comparable to the specified charges for
transportation, delivery, insurance or installation-all of
which are incurred subsequent to the preparation of an
article for shipment and are not included in the manufacturer's f. o. b. selling price. Hence advertising and selling expenses cannot be encompassed by the term "other
charge" unless that term be taken to include charges entirely dissimilar to those specified. This term, however,
was understood by its framers to mean "like charges" or
"similar charges" to those specifically enumerated in the
same sentence. H. Rep. No. 708 (72d Cong., 1st Sess.)
p. 37; S. Rep. No. 665, Part 3 (72d Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 3;
H. Conf. Rep. No. 1492 (72d Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 22.
When this fact is added to the general intent of Congress
to include all costs or charges incurred prior to shipment,
the applicability of the ejusdem generis rule to the term
"other charge" becomes clear. This rule, which appro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

priately may be invoked here since it does not conflict with
the general purpose of the statute, compare Securities &
Exchange Commission v. Joiner Corp., 320 U. S. 344, 350,
351, with Smith v. Davis, 323 U. S. 111, limits the "other
charge" to expenses similar in character to those incurred
for transportation, delivery, insurance and installation.
Since advertising and selling expenses arise prior to shipment and are necessarily components of the f. o. b. selling
price, the term "other charge" cannot cover them.' They
must be included in the tax base. Such has been the consistent administrative construction of the statute, G. C. M.
21114, 1939-1 Cum. Bull. 351, 353. And such is the result made necessary by the accepted rules of statutory
construction.'
It is argued that this conclusion results in a discrimination against a manufacturer who indulges in his own
advertising and selling campaigns in favor of one whose
products are advertised by his customers and that Congress could not have intended such a discrimination. But
this discrimination, to the extent that it may exist, is an
unavoidable consequence of an excise tax based on the
'The parenthetical matter following the term "other charge" in the
last sentence of § 619 (a)-"(not required by the foregoing sentence
to be included) "-is not significant in this case. It serves simply to
provide that, to the extent that the provisions for inclusion and exclusion may overlap, the former shall control.
2 Section 3 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1939, 53 Stat. 862, 863, Internal Revenue Code § 3401, excluded from the sale price "a transportation, delivery, insurance, or other charge, and the wholesaler's salesmen's commissions and costs and expenses of advertising and selling."
(Italics added.) Section 3 (b) made this amendment prospective only
and hence § 3 (a) cannot be taken as a Congressional declaration that
the advertising and selling expenses were intended to be excluded from
the selling price under the Revenue Act of 1932. On the contrary,
the very fact that Congress found it necessary in 1939 to exclude such
expenses specifically is persuasive evidence that prior thereto advertising and selling expenses were not meant to be excluded.

FITCH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
582

Opinion of the Court.

wholesale selling price. Such cost factors as labor, materials and advertising naturally vary among competing
manufacturers; different costs and different methods of
doing business in turn may cause the wholesale selling
prices to lack uniformity. And if these prices are taxed
without adjustment for differing cost factors, tax inequalities and discriminations inevitably result. But
where, as here, a flat tax is placed on the wholesale selling
prices and no statutory provisions are made for relief from
the resulting natural tax inequalities, courts are powerless
to supply it themselves by imputing to Congress an unexpressed intent to achieve tax uniformity among manufacturers selling at wholesale.3
Finally; petitioner urges that § 619 (b) must also be
considered in order to ascertain the true Congressional
intent and in order to give § 619 (a) its proper construction. But § 619 (b) merely provides that where the
manufacturer sells at retail, on consignment or otherwise
than through an arm's length transaction, the tax shall
be based upon a figure determined by the Commissioner
with reference to the prices at which similar articles are
sold in the ordinary course of trade. Inasmuch as petitioner's sales were made at wholesale, § 619 (b) has no
direct application to this case. But it does serve to emphasize the failure of Congress to make similar provisions
for tax equalization under § 619 (a) where the manufacturer's sales are at wholesale. It cannot, however, vary
the plain intent and language of § 619 (a) and Congres0Congress
has subsequently realized that the excise tax on the
wholesale selling price created tax inequalities among manufacturers.
In § 552 of the Revenue Act of 1941, 55 Stat. 687, 718, Congress
substituted a retail excise tax for the manufacturer's excise tax on
toilet preparations. The reasons assigned for the change were that
under the earlier law "evasion is substantial and inequitable competitive situations are created." H. Rep. No. 1040 (77th Cong., 1st Sess.),
p. 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
323 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

sional statements I relating to the desirability of eliminating discriminations against manufacturers making
retail sales cannot be taken as evidence of a desire to prevent the natural inequalities that result when a tax is
placed on the wholesale selling price.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

concurs in the result.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 182.

Argued January 11, 1945.-Decided January 29, 1945.

1. Section 15 (4) (b) of the Interstate Commerce Act empowers the
Interstate Commerce Commission to establish a through route
which would require a carrier to short-haul itself where such route
is needed in order to provide "adequate, and more efficient or more
economic, transportation." Held that, in determining whether the
proposed through route is needed in order to provide "adequate,
and more efficient or more economic, transportation," the Commission may consider the interests of the shipper as well as those of
the carrier. P. 592.
2. The order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring the
establishment of through routes was supported by the findings and
the evidence. P. 593.
54 F. Supp. 381, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a district court of three judges

refusing to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, 255 I. C. C. 333.
Mr. Joseph F. Eshelman, with whom Messrs. R. Aubrey
Bogley, Francis R. Cross, Wm. Pepper Constable, John
Dickinson, H. C. Barron, Charles Clark, A. B. Enoch,
P. F. Gault, Thomas P. Healy, H. H. Larimore, A. H.
H. Rep. No. 708 (72d Cong., 1st Sess.), pp. 32-33; 75 Cong.
Rec. 5693, 5694.
4See

