CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
POPE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 26.

Argued October 16, 1944.-Decided November 6, 1944.

By the Special Act of February 27, 1942, Congress conferred upon
the Court of Claims jurisdiction to hear, determine and render
judgment upon certain claims of a contractor against the Government, in conformity with directions given in the Act. The court
had previously denied recovery on the claims. The Act authorized
review here by certiorari. Held:
1. The Act is to be construed not as setting aside the judgment
in a case already decided or as changing the rules of decision for
the determination of a pending case, but rather as creating a new
obligation of the Government to pay the contractor's claims where
no obligation existed before. United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128,
distinguished. P. 8.
(a) There is no constitutional obstacle to Congress' imposing
on the Government a new obligation where none existed before, for
work performed by the contractor which was beneficial to the
Government and for which Congress thought he had not been
adequately compensated. P. 9.
(b) The power of Congress to provide for the payment of
debts, conferred by § 8 of Article I of the Constitution, is not restricted to payment of those debts which are legally binding on the
Government, but extends to the creation of such obligations in
recognition of claims which are merely moral or honorary. P. 9.
2. By the creation of a legal, in recognition of a moral, obligation
to pay the contractor's claims, Congress did not encroach upon the
judicial function which the Court of Claims had previously exercised in adjudicating that the obligation was not legal. P. 10.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 U. S.

3. Nor did the Act encroach upon the judicial function of the
Court of Claims by directing that court to pass upon the contractor's claims in conformity to the particular rule of liability
prescribed by the Act and to give judgment, accordingly. P. 10.
(a) By the Act, Congress in effect consented to judgment in
an amount to be ascertained by reference to specified data. P. 11.
(b) When a plaintiff brings suit to enforce a legal obligation
it is not any the less a case or controversy, upon which a court
possessing the federal judicial. power may rightly give judgment,
because the plaintiff's claim is uncontested or incontestable. P. 11.
(c) Whether the Act makes the findings in the earlier suit
conclusive, and, if not, whether the evidence would establish the
facts on which the Act predicates liability, are judicial questions.
P. 11.
(d) Whether the facts be ascertained by proof or by stipulation, it is still a part of the judicial function to determine whether
there is a legally binding obligation and, if so, to give judgment
for the amount due even though the amount depends upon mere
computation. P. 11.
4. The Act authorized the claimant to invoke the judicial power
of the Court of Claims and he did so. P. 12.
5. The appellate jurisdiction conferred upon this Court by Art.
III, § 2, cl. 2 of the Constitution extends to decisions of the Court
of Claims rendered in exercise of its judicial functions, and such
appellate review is not precluded by the fact that Congress has
also imposed upon the Court of Claims non-judicial functions of
an administrative or legislative character. P. 13.
6. The Court of Claims' determination that the Act conferred
upon it only non-judicial functions and hence that it had no judicial duty to perform was itself an exercise of judicial power reviewable here. Postum Cereal Co. v. California Fig Nut Co., 272
U. S. 693, distinguished. P. 14.
100 Ct. Cls. 375, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 761, to review the dismissal of a
proceeding brought in the Court of Claims pursuant to a
special jurisdictional Act, which that court held unconstitutional.

Mr. George R. Shields, with whom Mr. Herman J. Galloway was on the brief, for petitioner. Allen Pope, pro se,
filed a supplemental brief.

POPE v. UNITED STATES.

3

Opinion of the Court.
Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Joseph B. Goldman, and Miss CeceliaH. Goetz were on the brief, for the

United States.
Mr. John W. Cragun, as amicus curiae, filed a brief
urging reversal.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether Congress exceeded its constitutional authority in enacting the Special
Act of February 27, 1942, 56 Stat. 1122,1 by which, "not1 "Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That jurisdiction be, and the same is hereby, conferred upon the Court of Claims
of the United States, notwithstanding any prior determination, any
statute of limitations, release, or prior acceptance of partial allowance, to hear, determine, and render judgment upon the claims of
Allen Pope, his heirs or personal representatives, against the United
States, as described and in the manner set out in section 2 hereof,
which claims arise out of the construction by him of a tunnel for the
second high service of the water supply in the District of Columbia.
"Sec. 2. The Court of Claims is hereby directed to determine and
render judgment at contract rates upon the claims of the said Allen
Pope, his heirs or personal representatives, for certaifi work performed for which he has not been paid, but of which the Government
has received the use and benefit; namely, for the excavation and concrete work found by the court to have been performed by the said
Pope in complying with certain orders of the contracting officer,
whereby the plans for the work were so changed as to lower the upper
'B' or 'pay' line three inches, and as to omit the timber lagging from
the side walls of the tunnel; and for the work of excavating materials
which caved in over the tunnel arch and for filling such caved-in
spaces with dry packing and grout, as directed by the contracting
officer, the amount of dry packing to be determined by the liquid
method as described by the court and based on the volume of grout
actually used, and the amount of grout to be as determined by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

withstanding any prior determination" or "any statute of
limitations," it purported to confer jurisdiction on the
Court of Claims to "hear and determine," and directed it
to "render judgment" upon, certain claims of petitioner
against the Government in conformity to directions given
in the Act.
Petitioner brought the present proceeding in the Court
of Claims to recover upon his claims as specified and sanctioned by the Special Act. The court dismissed the proceeding on the ground that the Act was unconstitutional.
100 Ct. Cls. 375. It thought that in requiring the court
to make a mathematical calculation of the amount of
petitioner's claims upon the basis of data enumerated in
the Act and to give judgment for the amount so ascertained, notwithstanding the rejection of those claims in
an earlier suit in the Court of Claims, the Act was an unconstitutional encroachment by Congress upon the judicial
function of the court. Holding that it was free to ignore
the Congressional command because given without constitutional authority, the court gave judgment dismissing
the proceeding.
The case comes here on petition for certiorari which assigns as error the ruling below that the Congressional
mandate was without constitutional authority. Because
of the importance of the questions involved we issued the
court's previous findings based on the number of bags of cement used
in the grout actually pumped into the dry packing.
"Sec. 3. Any suit brought under the provisions of this Act shall be
instituted within one year from the date of the approval hereof, and
the court shall consider as evidence in such suit any or all evidence
heretofore taken by either party in the case of Allen Pope against
the United States, numbered K-366, in the Court of Claims, together
with any additional evidence which may be taken.
"Sec. 4. From any decision or judgment rendered in any suit presented under the authority of this Act, a writ of certiorari to the
Supreme Court of the United States may be applied for by either
party thereto, as is provided by law in other cases."

POPE v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

writ, 321 U. S. 761. For reasons which will presently
appear, we hold that we have jurisdiction to review the
judgment below.
Several years before the enactment of the Special Act,
petitioner brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover
amounts alleged to be due upon his contract with the
Government for the construction of a tunnel as a part of
the water system of the District of Columbia. The construction involved certain excavation and certain filling
of the excavated space, in part with concrete and in part
with dry packing and grout. Dry packing consists of
closely packed broken rock, into which is pumped the
grout, a thin liquid mixture of sand, cement and water,
which, when it hardens, serves to solidify and strengthen
the dry packing.
Included in the demands for which the suit was brought
were certain claims which are now asserted in this proceeding. They comprise a claim for additional excavation
and concrete work alleged to have been required because
of certain orders of the contracting officer, and a claim
for dry packing and grout furnished by petitioner, and
placed by him in certain excavated space outside the socalled "B" line shown on the contract drawings. The "B"
line marked the outer limits of the tunnel beyond which,
by the terms of the contract, petitioner was not to be paid
for excavation.
In the first suit it appeared that petitioner sought recovery for excavation, for which he had not been paid, of
the space at the top of the tunnel where the contracting
officer had lowered the "B" line by three inches, thus decreasing the space for the excavation for which the contract
authorized payment to be made. The Court of Claims
denied recovery of this item. The contracting officer had
also directed the omission of certain timber supports or
lagging required by the contract to be placed on the side
walls of certain sections of the tunnel. Cave-ins from
the sides resulted, making it necessary that the caved-in

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

material be removed and that the resulting space be filled
with concrete, all at increased expense to petitioner. The
Court of Claims made findings showing the amount of
the 'additional excavation and concrete work claimed, but
denied recovery on these items because the order of the
contracting officer for the additional work involved a
change in the contract which was not in writing as the
contract required.
The Court of Claims also denied petitioner's claim for
dry packing and grout. It was of opinion that the Government had received the benefit of and was liable for
whatever dry packing petitioner had done and for so
much of the grout as had actually found its way into the
dry packed space and had remained there. But it denied
recovery because of deficiency in the proof as to the extent
of this space. The only proof offered was the "liquid
method" of computation based on the number of bags of
cement used in the preparation of all the grout furnished
by petitioner, the cement constituting a fixed proportion
of the grout. The court held, with the Government, that
the seepage of the grout into areas outside that dry packed
rendered the liquid method an unreliable measure for
determining either the volume of the dry packing or the
amount of the grout required for it. The court gave
judgment accordingly, while allowing to petitioner other
claims upon his contract with which we are not here concerned. Petitioner's motions for a new trial were denied
by the Court of Claims, and this Court denied certiorari.
303 U. S. 654.
The Special Act of Congress directed the Court of
Claims to "render judgment at contract rates upon the
claims" of petitioner for "certain work performed for
which he has not been paid, but of which the Government
has received the use and benefit," and gave jurisdiction to
this Court to review the judgment by certiorari. Section
2 of the Act defined the work to be compensated as
"the excavation and concrete work found by the court to

POPE v. UNITED STATES.
I

Opinion of the Court.

have been performed by the said Pope in complying with
certain orders of the contracting officer, whereby the plans
for the work were so changed as to lower the upper 'B'
or 'pay' line three inches, and as to omit the timber lagging
from the side walls of the tunnel; and for the work of
excavating materials which caved in over the tunnel arch
and for filling such caved-in spaces with dry packing and
grout, as directed by the contracting officer, the amount
of dry packing to be determined by the liquid method as
described by the court and based on the volume of grout
actually used, and the amount of grout to be as determined
by the court's previous findings based on the number of
bags of cement used in the grout actually pumped into
dry packing."
The Act further directed that the court should consider
as evidence in the case "any or all of the evidence" taken
by either party in the earlier suit, "together with any
additional evidence which may be taken."
The Court of Claims in construing the Special Act said
(100 Ct. Cls. p. 379):
"A rereading of Section 2 of the act will show that the
task which the court is directed to perform is a small and
unimportant one. It is directed to refer to its previous
findings, take certain cubic measurements and certain
numbers of bags of cement which are recited there by reference, multiply those figures by the several unit prices
stipulated in the contract for the several kinds of work,
add the results and render judgment for the plaintiff for
the sum. If this reading of Section 2 is correct, not only
does the special act purport to confer upon the plaintiff
the unusual privilege of litigating the same case a second
time in a court which once finally decided it, and applying
a second time for a review in the Supreme Court of the
United States, which once considered and denied such a
review. The special act also purports to decide the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

tions of law which were in the case upon its former trial
and would, but for the act, be in it now, and to decide all
questions of fact except certain simple computations."
So construed it thought the Special Act directed the Court
of Claims to decide again the case or controversy which it
had decided in the first suit, "to decide it for the plaintiff
and give him a judgment for an amount" determined by
a "simple computation, based upon data referred to in
the Special Act." This, it concluded, Congress could not
"effectively direct."
For this conclusion it relied upon United States v. Klein,
13 Wall. 128, in. which this Court ruled that Congress was
without constitutional power to prescribe a rule of decision for a case pending on appeal in this Court so as to
require it to order dismissal of the suit in which the Court
of Claims had given judgment for the claimant. Decision
was rested upon the ground that the judicial power over
the pending appeal resided with this Court in the exercise
of its appellate jurisdiction, and that Congress was without constitutional authority to control the exercise of its
judicial power and that of the court below by requiring
this Court to set aside the judgment of the Court of Claims
by dismissing the suit.
As the opinion in the Klein case pointed out, pp. 144,
145, the Act of March 17, 1866, 14 Stat. 9, conferred on
the Court of Claims judicial power by giving it authority
to render final judgments in those cases and controversies
which, pursuant to existing statutes, had been previously
litigated before it. By later statutes this authority was
extended to future cases, and the Court has since exercised
the judicial power thus conferred upon it. See Ex parte
Bakelite Corp., 279 U. S. 438, 454; United States v. Jones,
119 U. S. 477. We do not consider just what application
the principles announced in the Klein case could rightly
be given to a case in which Congress sought, pendente lite,
to set aside a judgment of the Court of Claims in favor

POPE v. UNITED STATES.
I

Opinion of the Court.

of the Government and to require relitigation of the suit.
For we do not construe the Special Act as requiring the
Court of Claims to set aside the judgment in a case already
decided or as changing the rules of decision for the determination of a pending case.
Before the Special Act the claims of petitioner on his
contract with the Government had been passed upon judicially and merged in a judgment which was final. United
States v. Jones, supra; In re Sanborn, 148 U. S. 222, 225;
Luckenbach S. S. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 533, 536
et seq. This Court denied certiorari, and the judgment,
which remains undisturbed by any subsequent legislative
or judicial action, conclusively established that petitioner
was not entitled to recover on his claims. The Special Act
did not purport to set aside the judgment or to require a
new trial of the issues as to the validity of the claims which
the Court had resolved against petitioner. While inartistically drawn the Act's purpose and effect seem rather
to have been to create a new obligation of the Government
to pay petitioner's claims where no obligation existed before. And such being its effect, the Act's impact upon
the performance by the Court of Claims of its judicial duties seems not to be any different than it would have been
if petitioner's claims had not been previously adjudicated
there.
We perceive no constitutional obstacle to Congress'
imposing on the Government a new obligation where there
had been none before, for work performed by petitioner
which was beneficial to the Government and for which
Congress thought he had not been adequately compensated. The power of Congress to provide for the payment
of debts, conferred by § 8 of Article I of the Constitution,
is not restricted to payment of those obligations which
are legally binding on the Government. It extends to
the creation of such obligations in recognition of claims
which are merely moral or honorary. Roberts v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

States, 92 U. S. 41; United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S.
427; UnitedStates v. Cook, 257 U. S. 523; CincinnatiSoap
Co. v. United States, 301 U. S. 308, 314. Congress, by
the creation of a legal, in recognition of a moral, obligation to pay petitioner's claims plainly did not encroach
upon the judicial function which the Court of Claims had
previously exercised in adjudicating that the obligation
was not legal.' Nor do we think it did so by directing
that court to pass upon petitioner's claims in conformity
to the particular rule of liability prescribed by the Special
Act and to give judgment accordingly. Pennsylvania v.
Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 421; Roberts
v. United States, supra; see Cherokee Nation v. United
States, 270 U. S. 476, 486; cf. Klamath Indians v. United
States, 296 U. S. 244; United States v. Klamath Indians,
304 U. S. 119.
Congress having exercised its constitutional authority
to impose on the Government a legally binding obligation,
the decisive question is whether it invaded the judicial
province of the Court of Claims by directing it to determine the extent of the obligation by reference, as directed,
to the specified facts, and to give judgment for that
amount. In answering, it is important that the Act contemplated that petitioner should bring suit on his claims
in the usual manner, that the court was given jurisdiction
to decide it, and that petitioner by bringing the suit has
invoked, for its decision, whatever judicial power the court
possesses. Cf. UnitedStates v. Realty Co., supra. In this
posture of the case it is pertinent to inquire what, if any2

The Court of Claims has often so held in earlier cases. See e.

g.

Nock v. United States, 1 Ct. CIs. 71, 2 Ct. CIs. 451; Murphy v. United
States, 14 Ct. CIs. 508, 15 Ct. CIs. 217, affirmed 104 U. S. 464, 35 Ct.
CIs. 494; Alcock & Co. v. United States, 61 Ct. Cls. 312,74 Ct. Cls. 308;
DeLuca v. United States, 69 Ct. CIs. 262, cert. denied 283 U. S. 862,
84 Ct. Cls. 217. And see Menominee Indians v. United States, 101

Ct. CIs. 10.

POPE v. UNITED STATES.
I

Opinion of the Court.

thing, Congress added to or subtracted from the judicial
duties of the Court of Claims by directing that it consider
the case and give judgment for the amount found to be
due. Stripped of all complexities of detail the case is one
in which, simply stated, petitioner has sought to enforce
the obligation, which the Government has assumed to
pay him for work done and not paid for. Congress has in
effect consented to judgment in an amount to be ascertained by reference to the specified data.
When a plaintiff brings suit to enforce a legal obligation
it is not any the less a case or controversy upon which a
court possessing the federal judicial power may rightly
give judgment, because the plaintiff's claim is uncontested
or incontestable. Nor is it any the less so because the
amount recoverable depends upon a mathematical computation based upon data to be ascertained which by the
terms of the obligation are its measure. For in any case
the court is called on to sanction, by its judgment, an
alleged obligation in a proceeding in which the existence,
validity and extent of the obligation, the existence of the
data, and the correctness of the computation may be put
in issue.
The court below seems to have assumed that its only
function under the Special Act was to make a calculation
based upon data to be found in the Act and in the findings
of the earlier suit. In view of the provisions of the Special
Act for taking evidence and for considering the evidence
in the first suit, we cannot say that all the earlier findings
are to be deemed conclusive and that the court could not
have been called on in this proceeding to determine judicially whether they are so. Whether the Act makes them
conclusive, and if not, whether the evidence would establish the facts on which the Act predicates liability, are
judicial questions. But if the facts be ascertained by proof
or by stipulation, it is still a part of the judicial function
to determine whether there is a legally binding obligation

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

and, if so, to give judgment for the amount due even
though the amount depends upon mere computation.
It is a judicial function and an exercise of the judicial
power to render judgment on consent. A judgment upon
consent is "a judicial act." United States v. Swift & Co.,
286 U. S. 106, 115; Swift & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S.
311, 324; see also Pacific R. Co. v. Ketchum, 101 U. S.
289; United States v. Babbitt, 104 U. S. 767; Nashville,
C. & St. L. R. Co. v. United States, 113 U. S. 261; Thompson v. Maxwell Land Grant & R. Co., 168 U. S. 451. It is
likewise a judicial act to give judgment on a legal obligation which the court finds to be established by stipulated
facts; J. I. Case Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332, 333;
Johnson v. Yellow Cab Co., 321 U. S. 383, 388; Equitable
Society v. Commissioner,321 U. S. 560, 561; or when the
defendant is in default. Voorhees v. Bank of the United
States, 10 Pet. 449; Randolph v. Barrett, 16 Pet. 138;
Clements v. Berry, 11 How. 398; Cooper v. Reynolds, 10
Wall. 308; Rio Grande IrrigationCo. v. Gildersleeve, 174
U. S. 603; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. United States, 187
U. S. 315; Christiansonv. King County, 239 U. S. 356,
372. It is a familiar practice and an exercise of judicial
power for a court upon default, by taking evidence when
necessary or by computation from facts of record, to fix
the amount which the plaintiff is lawfully entitled to
recover and to give judgment accordingly. Renner &
Bussard v. Marshall, 1 Wheat. 215; Aurora City v. West,
7 Wall. 82, 104; Clements v. Berry, supra;cf. Mayhew v.
Thatcher, 6 Wheat. 129. In all these cases the court determines that the unchallenged facts shown of record
establish a legally binding obligation; it adjudicates the
plaintiff's right of recovery and the extent of it, both of
which are essential elements of the judgment.
We conclude that the effect of the Special Act was to
authorize petitioner to invoke the judicial power of the
Court of Claims, and that he has done so. It is true that

POPE v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

Congress has imposed on that court, as it has on the courts
of the District of Columbia, non-judicial duties of an administrative or legislative character. See In re Sanborn,
supra; Federal Radio Comm'n v. Nelson Bros. Co., 289
U. S. 266, 275. Those imposed on the Court of Claims
are such as it has traditionally exercised ever since its
original organization as a mere agency of Congress to aid
it in the performance of its constitutional duty to provide
for payment of the debts of the Government. Such administrative duties coexist with its judicial functions.
See Ex parte Bakelite Corp., supra, 452, et seq. Its decisions rendered in its administrative capacity are not
judicial acts, and their review, even though sanctioned
by Congress, is not within the appellate jurisdiction of
this Court. Gordon v. United States, 2 Wall. 561; and
see the views expressed by Taney, C. J., in 117 U. S. 697;
In re Sanborn,supra. But notwithstanding the retention
of such administrative duties by the Court of Claims; as
in the case of the courts of the District of Columbia, Congress has provided for appellate review of the judgments
of both courts rendered in their judicial capacity. And
this Court has held, by an unbroken line of decisions, that
its appellate jurisdiction, conferred by Art. III, § 2, Cl. 2
of the Constitution, extends to the review of such judgments of the Court of Claims; De Groot v. United States,
5 Wall. 419; United States v. Jones, supra; Nashville,
C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 263; and of
the courts of the District of Columbia; Federal Radio
Comm'n v. Nelson Bros. Co., supra, and cases cited.
We have no occasion to consider what effect the imposition of non-judicial duties on the Court of Claims
may have affecting its constitutional status as a court and
the permanency of tenure of its judges. Cf. Williams v.
United States, 289 U. S. 553. It is enough that, although
the Court of Claims, like the courts of the District of
Columbia, exercises non-judicial duties, Congress has also

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

authorized it as an inferior court to perform judicial functions whose exercise is reviewable here. The problem presented here is no different than if Congress had given a
like direction to any district court to be followed as in
other Tucker Act cases. Its possession of non-judicial
functions by direction of Congress presents no more obstacle to appellate review of its judicial determinations by
this Court, than does the performance of like functions by
the courts of the District of Columbia or by state courts
whose exercise of judicial power, in the cases specified in
Article III, § 2, Cl. 1, of the Constitution, is reviewable
here by virtue of Cl. 2 of § 2. Compare Southwestern
Bell Tel. Co. v. Oklahoma, 303 U. S. 206 with Barnett v.
Rogers, 302 U. S. 655. See also Prentis v. Atlantic Coast
Line, 211 U. S. 210; 225, 226; Oklahoma Natural Gas Co.
v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290.
The Court of Claims' determination that the Special
Act conferred upon it only non-judicial functions and
hence that it had no judicial duty to perform was itself
an exercise of judicial power reviewable here. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447. The
case is not one where the court below has made merely an
administrative decision not subject to judicial review,
without purporting to act judicially or to rule as to the
extent of its judicial authority as the ground of its action
or refusal to act. Postum Cereal Co. v. California Fig
Nut Co., 272 U. S. 693. Jurisdiction to decide is jurisdiction to make a wrong as well as a right decision. Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 234, 235; Burnet v. Desmornes, 226 U. S. 145, 147.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

