338

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

SINGER LT AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 30.

Argued November 9, 10, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.

1. The conspiracy clause of § 11 of the Selective Training and Service
Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 885, is not limited to conspiracies to "hinder
or interfere in any way by force or violence" with the administration of the Act, but embraces all conspiracies to violate the
Act. P. 340.
2. The offense of conspiracy under § 11 of the Selective Training and
Service Act, unlike that under § 37 of the Criminal Code, does
not require an overt act. P. 340.
3. The principle of strict construction does not require that a criminal
statute be given its narrowest possible meaning. P. 341.
4. Where another interpretation is permissible, a statute should not
be given a construction which makes it redundant. P. 344.
5. As to a petitioner who died since the grant of a writ of certiorari
to review a judgment of conviction, the writ is dismissed and the
cause is remanded to the District Court for such disposition as
law and justice require. P. 346.
141 F. 2d 262. affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 720, to review the affirmance of
judgments of conviction for conspiracy to violate the
Selective Training and Service Act. See 49 F. Supp. 912.
Messrs. John W. Cragunand William Stanley submitted
for petitioners.
Mr. James M. McInerney argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark,
and Messrs. Robert S. Erdahl, Ralph F. Fuchs, and Leon
Ulman were on the brief, for the United States.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners are father and son. They and one Walter
Weel were indicted in one count charging a conspiracy to

SINGER v. UNITED STATES.
338

339

Opinion of the Court.

aid Willard I. Singer in evading service in the armed forces.
No overt act was alleged. A demurrer to the indictment
was overruled which claimed that an overt act was necessary. Petitioners were tried before a jury, found guilty
and sentenced. Petitioner Willard I. Singer received a
sentence of one year and a day; petitioner Martin H.
Singer received a suspended sentence and was placed on
probation for two years. Motions in arrest of judgment
and for a new trial were denied. 49 F. Supp. 912. The
judgments of conviction were affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 141 F. 2d 262. The case is here on a
petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted, limited
to the question whether the conspiracy charged constitutes an offense under § 11 of the Selective Training and
Service Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 885, 894-895, 50 U. S. C. App.
§ 311.
The relevant part of § 11 reads as follows:
"Any person charged as herein provided with the duty
of carrying out any of the provisions of this Act, or the
rules or regulations made or directions given thereunder,
who shall knowingly fail or neglect to perform such duty,
and any person charged with such duty, or having and
exercising any authority under said Act, rules, regulations,
or directions who shall knowingly make, or be a party to
the making, of any false, improper, or incorrect registration, classification, physical or mental examination, deferment, induction, enrollment, or muster, and any person
who shall knowingly make, or be a party to the making of,
any false statement or certificate as to the fitness or unfitness or liability or nonliability of himself or any other
person for service under the provisions of this Act, or rules,
regulations, or directions made pursuant thereto, or who
otherwise evades registration or service in the land or
naval forces or any of the requirements of this Act, or who
knowingly counsels, aids, or abets another to evade registration or service in the land or naval forces or any of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

requirements of this Act, or of said rules, regulations, or
directions, or who in any manner shall knowingly fail or
neglect to perform any duty required of him under or in
the execution of this Act, or rules or regulations made pursuant to this Act, or any person or persons who shall knowingly hinder or interfere in any way by force or violence
with the administration of this Act or the rules or regulations made pursuant thereto, or conspire to do so, shall,
upon conviction in the district court of the United States
having jurisdiction thereof, be punished by imprisonment
for not more than five years or a fine of not more than
$10,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment
(Italics added.)
The section does not require an overt act for the offense
of conspiracy. It punishes conspiracy "on the common
law footing." Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 378.
Hence the indictment is sufficient if the words "or conspire to do so" extend to all conspiracies to commit offenses
against the Act. It is insufficient if the conspiracy clause
is limited to conspiracies to "hinder or interfere in any
way by force or violence" with the administration of the
Act. If it is so limited then it would have been necessary
to sustain the indictment under § 37 of the Criminal Code,
18 U. S. C. § 88, which requires the commission of an overt
act.' See United States v. Rabinouich, 238 U. S.78, 86.
Though the matter is not free from doubt, we think the
conspiracy clause of § 11 is not limited but embraces all
conspiracies to violate the Act. That is the view of the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (United States v.
1That section provides:

"If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense
against the United States, or to defraud the United States in any
manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such parties do any
act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the parties to such
conspiracy shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not
more than two years, or both."

SINGER v. UNITED STATES.
338

Opinion of the Court.

O'Connell, 126 F. 2d 807) as well as the court below. We
think that construction is grammatically permissible and
conforms with the legislative scheme.
Seven offenses precede the conspiracy clause. Each is
set off by a comma. A comma also precedes the conspiracy clause and separates it from the force and violence
provision just as the latter is separated by a comma from
the clause which precedes it. The punctuation of the
sentence indicates that the disjunctive conspiracy clause
is the last independent clause of a series not a part of the
preceding clause. A subject of "conspire" must be supplied however the conspiracy clause is read. It is true
that the subject must be plural and that the subject of
each of the preceding clauses is singular except "any person or persons" in the force and violence clause. But it
does not follow that the conspiracy clause is hitched solely
to the preceding clause. When read as applicable to all
the substantive offenses, the verb "conspire" is proper
since some of the subjects would be singular and some
plural.
A question remains concerning the word "so." The
structure of the sentence as a whole suggests that the
reference is to all the offenses previously enumerated.
The seven offenses which precede the conspiracy clause are
substantive offenses. Each carries the same penalty and
is punishable in the same manner. The conspiracy clause
comes last and is separated from the preceding one by a
comma. If the word "so" is read resfrictively, then one
type of conspiracy is set apart for special treatment. If
our construction is taken, a rational scheme results with
the same maximum penalties throughout-all types of
conspiracies being treated equally, just as the substantive
offenses are treated alike. No persuasive reason has been
advanced why the words "conspire to do so" should not
carry their natural significance. The principle of strict
construction of criminal statutes does not mean that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

must be given their narrowest possible meaning. United
States v. Giles, 300 U. S. 41, 48.
The legislative history throws only a little light on this
problem of the construction of § 11. What appears is a
brief statement by Senator Sheppard, Chairman of the
Senate Committee on Military Affairs, who explained
the bill on the floor of the Senate. He stated that the
section which later became § 11 of the present Act "contains the penalty provisions of the bill, which are substantially the same as those of the World War act. Experience with the World War provisions shows that they
worked satisfactorily in providing the necessary protection." 86 Cong. Rec. 10095. The Selective Draft Act of
1917, 40 Stat. 76, 50 U. S. C. App. § 201 et seq., contained
no conspiracy provision. And the penalties prescribed
for the substantive offenses were milder than those contained in the present Act.2 Conspiracies to commit nonviolent offenses were prosecuted under § 37 of the Criminal Code which, as we have noted, requires an overt act.3
Conspiracies involving the use of force were prosecuted
under § 6 of the Criminal Code, 35 Stat. 1089, 18 U. S. C.
§ 6, which punishes conspiracies "by force to prevent,
hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United
States." " Sec. 37 of the Criminal Code provides a pun2

The 1917 Act punished various substantive offenses of the kind

covered by § 11 of the present Act by imprisonment for not more than
one year. See §§ 5 and 6.
1 See United States v. McHugh, 253 F. 224; Anderson v. United
States, 269 F. 65; O'Connell v. United States, 253 U. S. 142; Goldman v. United States, 245 U. S. 474.
4 See Enfield v. United States, 261 F. 141; Reeder v. United States,

262 F. 36. But see Haywood v. United States, 268 F. 795.
Conspiracies were also prosecuted under § 4 of the Espionage Act
of June 15, 1917, 40 Stat. 217, 219, 41 Stat. 1359, 50 U. S. C. § 34,
which like § 37 of the Criminal Code requires an overt act. See
Frohwerk v. United States, 249 U. S. 204; Pierce v. United States,
252 U. S. 239. But that section is applicable only in time of war and

SINGER v. UNITED STATES.
338

343

Opinion of the Court.

ishment of not-more than two years' imprisonment or a
fine of $10,000 or both. Sec. 6 of the Criminal Code provides a punishment of not more than six years' imprisonment or a $5,000 fine, or both. Sec. 11 of the present Act
provides imprisonment for not more than five years or a
fine of $10,000 or both. Both § 37 and § 6 of the Criminal
Code were in force when the present Act was adopted.
The addition of the conspiracy clause of § 11 was a departure from the 1917 Act and a substantial departure
at that. Moreover, the "World War provisions" which,
according to Senator Sheppard, had provided "the necessary protection" were certainly not the provisions of the
1917 Act alone but the conspiracy statutes as well. Hence,
we do not take his statement to mean that the penalty
provisions of § 11 are substantially the same as those contained in the 1917 Act. We read his somewhat ambiguous
comments as indicating that he was comparing the provisions of § 11 with the provisions of the 1917 Act plus
the provisions of other statutes which were employed in
enforcing that Act. Thus Senator Sheppard's statement
suggests that § 11 was designed to catalogue the various
offenses against the Act.5 It suggests that the purpose
of including a conspiracy clause in § 11 was to furnish a
single basis for prosecuting all conspiracies to commit offenses against the Act. That results in punishments for
some conspiracies being increased. But there was likewise an increase in the penalties for substantive offenses.
hence was not operative when the present Act became the law on
September 16, 1940.
5 Whether, as assumed in United States v. Offutt, 127 F. 2d 336,
there may be conspiracies to violate § 11 which can still be prosecuted under § 37 of the Criminal Code is a question we do not
reach.
If only one of the statutes is applicable to a conspiracy to violate
§ 11, the latter.under which petitioners were convicted is controlling,
as it is a later statute prescribing precise penalties for specified
offenses. Callahan v. United States, 285 U. S. 515, 518,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Yet under our interpretation the sanctions provided by
§ 11 are substantially the same as the sum of the various sanctions provided for the enforcement of the 1917
Act.
The United States suggests that if the conspiracy clause
of § 11 is construed so as to apply only to conspiracies to
obstruct the Act by force and violence it would merely
duplicate § 6 of the Criminal Code and have no effect except to decrease the maximum imprisonment for the offense from six years to five. It is said in reply, however,
that under the earlier Act it was uncertain whether conspiracies contemplating the use of force in interfering with
its administration could be prosecuted under § 6 of the
Criminal Code. Cf. Reeder v. United States, 262 F. 36,
with Haywood v. United States, 268 F. 795, 799. And it
is argued from that fact that the conspiracy clause of § 11
was added to dispel the uncertainty. That is left to conjecture. Though we assume that it was a reason for adding a conspiracy clause to § 11, we cannot conclude that the
conspiracy clause which was fashioned is so limited. And
where another interpretation is wholly permissible, we
would be reluctant to give a statute that construction
which makes it wholly redundant. Only a clear legislative
purpose should lead to that result here.
Nor do we find force in the suggestion that the conspiracy clause was added merely to fill in gaps left by § 6
of the Criminal Code which covers only conspiracies td obstruct by force "the execution of any law of the United
States." It is said that United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S.
677, established as a principle of federal criminal law that
a provision which only punishes violations of a "law" does
not cover violations of rules or regulations made in conformity with that law. It is therefore argued that § 6 of
the Criminal Code does not embrace violations of rules or
regulations and that § 11 filled that gap by adding "rules
or regulations" to the force and violence clause. Here

SINGER v. UNITED STATES.
338

Opinion of the Court.

again the legislative history leaves that question wholly to
conjecture. United States v. Eaton turned on its special
facts, as UnitedStates v. Grimaud,220 U. S. 506, 518-519,
emphasizes. It has not been construed to state a fixed
principle that a regulation can never be a "law" for purposes of criminal prosecutions. It may or may not be, depending on the structure of the particular statute. The
Eaton case involved a statute which levied a tax on oleomargarine and regulated in detail oleomargarine manufacturers. Sec. 5 of the statute provided for the keeping
of such books and records as the Secretary of the Treasury
might require. But it provided no penalty for non-compliance. Other sections, however, laid down other requirements for manufacturers and prescribed penalties for violations. Sec. 20 gave the Secretary the power to make "all
needful regulations" for enforcing the Act. A regulation
was promulgated under § 20 requiring wholesalers to keep
a prescribed record. The prosecution was for non-compliance with that regulation. Sec. 18 imposed criminal
penalties for failure to do any of the things "required by
law." The Court held that the violation of the regulation
promulgated under § 20 was not an offense. It reasoned
that since Congress had prescribed penalties for certain
acts but not for the failure to keep books the omission
could not be supplied by regulation. And Congress had
not added criminal sanctions to the rules promulgated
under § 20 of that Act. The situation here is quite different. Sec. 11 of the present Act makes it a crime to do
specified acts, either by way of omission or commission, in
violation of the Act or the rules or regulations issued under
it. Thus it is a felony for a person to "fail or neglect to
perform any duty required of him under or in the execution
of this Act, or rules or regulations made pursuant to this
Act." See. 11 is therefore a law of the United States which
imposes criminal sanctions for disobedience of the selective
service regulations. Since Congress has made the violation

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTFER, J.,

dissenting.

323 U. S.

of regulations a felony, it can hardly be contended that
those regulations are not a "law" for the purposes of § 6 of
the Criminal Code. But though we assume that United
States v. Eaton was a reason for adding a conspiracy clause
to § 11, we cannot assume that the one which was added
had the narrow scope suggested. Whatever the reason,
words mean what they say. And if we give the words "conspire to do so" their natural meaning, we do not make the
Act a trap for the innocent.
We have been advised that Martin H. Singer died on
October 1, 1944. The writ is accordingly dismissed as to
him (Menken v. Atlanta, 131 U. S.405; United States v.
Johnson, 319 U. S. 503, 520) and the cause is remanded to
the District Court for such disposition as law and justice
require. United States v. Pomeroy, 152 F. 279, rev'd 164
F. 324; United States v. Dunne, 173 F. 254.
The judgment as respects Willard I. Singer is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER, dissenting.

In the past, to soften the undue rigors of the criminal
law, courts frequently employed canons of artificial construction to restrict the transparent scope of criminal
statutes. I am no friend of such artificially restrictive interpretations. Criminal statutes should be given the
meaning that their language most obviously invites unless authoritative legislative history or absurd consequences preclude such natural meaning. There are surely
deep considerations of policy why the scope of criminal
condemnation should not be extended by a strained reading. The natural reading of the conspiracy provision of
§ 11 of the Selective Service Act of 1940 1confines its ap'54 Stat. 885, 894, 50 U. S. C. App. § 311. "Any person charged
as herein provided with the duty of carrying out any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules or regulations made or directions
given thereunder, who shall knowingly fail or neglect to perform

SINGER v. UNITED STATES.
338

FRANKFURTER,

347

J., dissenting.

plication to the immediately preceding clause which punishes "any person or persons who shall knowingly hinder
or interfere in any way by force or violence with the administration of this Act or the rules or regulations made
pursuant thereto." Since no absurd consequences preclude the indicated natural reading of this criminal statute
and since all available extraneous aids confirm the rendering which the text invites, I think it should be given it.
It is difficult for me to believe that if one were reading
§ 11 without consciousness of the problem now before us
and merely as a matter of English one would make the
"so" in the phrase "conspire to do so" relate back to all
that is contained in the twenty-two preceding lines rather
than to the "force or violence" clause immediately preceding. The structure of the sentence, grammar, and
clarity of expression combine to attribute to the phrase
such duty, and any person charged with such duty, or having and
exercising any authority under said Act, rules, regulations, or directions who shall knowingly make, or be a party to the making, of any
false, improper, or incorrect registration, classification, physical or
mental examination, deferment, induction, enrollment, or muster, and
any person who shall knowingly make, or be a party to the making
of, any false statement or certificate as to the fitness or unfitness or
liability or nonliability of himself or any other person for service
under the provisions of this Act, or rules, regulations, or directions
made pursuant thereto, or who otherwise evades registration or service
in the land or naval forces or any of the requirements of this Act,
or who knowingly counsels, aids, or abets another to evade registration
or service in the land or naval forces or any of the requirements of
this Act, or of said rules, regulations, or directions, or who in any
manner shall knowingly fail or neglect to perform any duty required
of him under or in the execution of this Act, or rules or regulations
made pursuant to this Act, or any person or persons who shall knowingly hinder or interfere in any way by force or violence with the
administration of this Act or the rules or regulations made pursuant
thereto, or conspire to do so, shall, upon conviction in the district
court of the United States having jurisdiction thereof, be punished
by imprisonment for not more than five years or a fine of not more
than $10,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment . .."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

"to do so" a limited reference instead of making "so"
carry the burden of the whole paragraph as antecedent.
Good sense reinforces these textual considerations. It is
made an offense to conspire to violate not only the seven
substantive offenses enumerated by Congress but also
the multitudinous "rules and regulations." There 'is an
obvious difference between conspiracies to violate by force
and violence any rule issued under the Act and a mere unexecuted arrangement between two people peacefully to
escape one of such rules.
All extraneous aids confirm rather than contradict this
construction.
The only authoritative legislative commentary we have
on § 11 is the statement by Senator Sheppard, Chairman
of the Committee on Military Affairs, in a formal speech
expounding the various provisions of the Act. There is
every reason to believe .that Senator Sheppard's speech
had behind it the authority of those who framed this legislation and who were cognizant of the prior legislation
upon which they were building. Senator Sheppard stated
that § 11 "contains the penalty provisions of the bill,
which are substantially the same as those of the World
War act. Experience with the World War provisions
shows that they worked satisfactorily in providing the
necessary protection." 86 Cong. Rec. 10095. It is to be
noted that Senator Sheppard spoke of the "World War
provisions" and thereby evidently had in mind the various
enactments available for dealing with interferences with
the raising of an army.
In its arsenal of punishment the Government had provisions dealing specifically with conspiracies affecting the
recruiting of an army as well as the all-comprehending
conspiracy statute outlawing conspiracies to commit any
offense against the United States-an old enactment
known to every tyro of federal law since Reconstruction
days (R. S. § 5440, Act of March 2, 1867). What then

SINGER v. UNITED STATES.
338

FRANxFUmRE,

J., dissenting.

were the specific conspiracy provisions which were "substantially" drawn upon for this war from the legislation
of the First World War? (a). Section 6 of the Criminal
Code, 18 U. S. C. § 6, punished conspiracies "by force to
prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the
United States . . ." with a fine of $5,000 or imprisonment for six years or both. No overt act was required
for prosecution for this conspiracy. (b) Section 4 of the
Espionage Act, 40 Stat. 217, 219, 50 U. S. C. § 34, outlawed
conspiracies to violate §§ 2 and 3 of the Espionage Act,
to be punished by a fine of $10,000, imprisonment for
twenty years or both. Section 4 required an overt act.
This section survived the last war but was not, however,
operative when the Selective Service Act was enacted
because it applies only "when the United States is at
war."
If the conspiracy clause in § 11 is confined to offenses
involving force or violence, the provisions as to conspiracy
remain substantially the same under the 1940 Act as they
were during the last war. Conspiracies to commit nonviolent offenses-that is, conspiracies to commit the range
of substantive offenses, some of them rather minor in
character, contained in § 11-are of course still punishable under the general conspiracy provision, to wit § 37 of
the Criminal Code, as was the situation during the last
war. Offenses of violence which fell within § 6 of the
Criminal Code in 1917 are now included within § 11,
neither of which requires an overt act. The punishment
for these conspiracies of violence is substantially similara $5,000 fine and six years imprisonment under § 6
and a $10,000 fine and five years imprisonment under
§ 11. Senator Sheppard's desire for penalties "which are
substantially the same as . . . the World War provisions"
would thus appear to be accomplished.
But the Government urges that if § 11 of the 1940 Act
merely hits a conspiracy to do an act of violence, the

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

conspiracy clause will be redundant in that it will accomplish nothing except to increase the limit of the fine from
$5,000 to $10,000 and to decrease the allowable imprisonment from six years to five years. This argument wholly
overlooks two important changes effected by the conspiracy provision of the 1940 Act. The cases had raised
doubt whether § 6 of the Criminal Code was properly applicable to conspiracies to violate by force the Draft Act.
Compare Reeder v. United States, 262 F. 36, cert. denied,
252 U. S. 581, with Haywood v. United States, 268 F. 795,
799, cert. denied, 256 U. S. 689. By specific inclusion of a
conspiracy provision in the Selective Service Act, instead
of leaving it to the generality of § 6 of the Criminal Code,
the doubt was completely eliminated. That in itself saves
the conspiracy provision from mere redundancy, for it
gives it, as a matter of law enforcement, an important
function.
The Government also fails to take into account that the
conspiracy provision of § 11 added considerably to the
scope of § 6-that the net of § 11 would catch many
offenders left free by § 6 of the Criminal Code. The latter
merely reaches conspiracies to obstruct by force the operation of "any law of the United States." For more than
half a century, ever since United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S.
677, it has been the settled principle of federal criminal law
that a provision merely punishing violation of a "law" does
not cover violations of rules or regulations made in conformity with that law. See United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506, 518-519. Section 6, therefore, does not cover
violations of rules or regulations. Section 11 of the 1940
Act made an important addition in that it punishes conspiracies to interfere forcibly not merely "with the administration of this Act" but also with "the rules or regulations
made pursuant thereto."
United States v. Eaton is not a judicial sport. It is the
application of a principle which has been undeviatingly

SINGER v. UNITED STATES.
338

FRANKnmTFR,

J., dissenting.

applied by this Court-most recently in Viereck v. United
States, 318 U. S. 236, 241-and upon the basis of which
Congress legislates. In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; United
States v. Grimaud, supra; United States v. George, 228
U. S. 14. The principle is that a crime is defined by Congress, not by an executive agency. See United States v.
Smull, 236 U. S. 405, 409. "Where the charge is of crime, it
must have clear legislative basis." United States v.
George, supra, at 22. It is only when Congress in advance
prescribes criminal sanctions for violations of authorized
rules that violations of such rules can be punished as
crimes. It is this far-reaching distinction which, it was
pointed out in the Grimaud case, put on one side the doctrine of the Eaton case, where violation of rules and regulations was not made criminal, and on the other side
legislation such as that enforced in the Grimaud case where
Congress specifically provided that "any violation of the
provisions of this act or such rules and regulations [of the
Secretary of Agriculture] shall be punished." (Italics
added by Mr. Justice Lamar.) United States v. Grimaud,
supra, at 515. Congress consciously gave an effect to the
conspiracy clause of § 11 which is absent from that of § 6
of the Criminal Code.
There is another strong ground for concluding that the
draftsmen of the Selective Service Act did not intend by
its dubious language to extend the conspiracy provision
beyond violent attempts and to sweep into this clause all
conspiracies to violate the Act or any of its regulations.
Whenever Congress desires to make a conspiracy provision
apply to a whole series of substantive offenses, it does so
explicitly. Either the conspiracy provision is set off in a
separate section or subsection made applicable to all preceding sections, or else clear words of reference to "any
provision" or "any of the acts made unlawful" are employed. See National Stolen Property Act, § 7, 53 Stat.
1178, 1179, 18 U. S. C. § 418a; Farm Credit Act, § 64 (f),

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

48 Stat. 257, 269, 12 U. S. C. § 1138 (f); Sherman Act,
§§ 1-3, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1-3; Act
of July 31,1861, R. S. § 1980,8 U. S.C. § 47. The absence
of such explicitness in the Selective Service Act is a strong
indication that no such sweeping scope was intended.
A statute defining specific crimes presents to courts a
very different duty of construction than do regulatory enactments wherein Congress recites a broad policy in light
of which the specific provisions of the regulatory scheme
must be construed. In the latter situation, a particular
provision of a statute derives meaning from the broad
policy expressed. See PhelpsDodge Corp. v. LaborBoard,
313 U. S. 177, 194. In a criminal statute like the one now
under review language defining the crime is self-contained-there is no background of broad policy to guide
the duty of giving such language its easy, most natural
meaning.
In the past, decisions undoubtedly worked hard to narrow the scope of a criminal statute. It is against the whole
tenor of reading a criminal statute to work hard to give it
the broadest possible scope. The responsibility of Congress for manifesting its will is ill served by easy-going
judicial construction of criminal statutes.
These views call for reversal of the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join

in this dissent.

and MR.

