134

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

323 U. S.

We think the Labor Standards Act does not exclude
as working time periods contracted for and spent on duty
in the circumstances disclosed here, merely because the
nature of the duty left time hanging heavy on the employees' hands and because the employer and employee
cooperated in trying to make the confinement and idleness incident to it more tolerable. Certainly they were
competent to agree, expressly or by implication, that an
employee could resort to amusements provided by the
employer without a violation of his agreement or a departure from his duty. Both courts below having concurred in finding that under the circumstances and the
arrangements between the parties the time so spent was
working time, we therefore affirm.
Affirmed.
SKIDMORE ET AL. V. SWIFT & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 12. Argued October 13, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.
1. No principle of law precluded a determination that waiting time
was working time under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Armour
& Co. v. Wantock, ante, p. 126. P. 136.
2. Whether time spent on the employer's premises (or in hailing distance) by fireguards subject to call was working time under the
Fair Labor Standards Act is a question of fact to be resolved by
appropriate findings of the trial court. P. 136.
3. Although the rulings, interpretations and opinions of the Administrator under the Fair Labor Standards Act do not control judicial
decision, they do constitute a body of experience and informed judgment to which courts and litigants may properly resort for guidance.
P. 140.
136 F. 2d 112, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 322 U. S.723, to review the affirmance of a
judgment, 53 F. Supp. 1020, denying recovery in a suit
under the Fair Labor Standards Act for overtime, liquidated damages, and attorney's fees.

SKIDMORE v. SWIFT & CO.
134

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. R. Curtis McBroom, with whom Mr. Mark McGee
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Beverley V. Thompson, with whom Mr. Wm. N.
Strack was on the brief, for respondent.
Solicitor General Fahy, Mr. Douglas B. Maggs, and
Miss Bessie Margolin filed a brief on behalf of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U. S. Department
of Labor, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR.,

JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Seven employees of the Swift and Company packing
plant at Fort Worth, Texas, brought an action under the
Fair Labor Standards Act to recover overtime, liquidated
damages, and attorneys' fees, totalling approximately
$77,000. The District Court rendered judgment denying
this claim wholly, 53 F. Supp. 1020, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed. 136 F. 2d 112.
It is not denied that the daytime employment of these
persons was working time within the Act. Two were engaged in general fire-hall duties and maintenance of firefighting equipment of the Swift plant. The others operated elevators or acted as relief men in fire duties. They
worked from 7:00 a. m. to 3:30 p. m., with a half-hour
lunch period, five days a week. They were paid weekly
salaries.
Under their oral agreement of employment, however,
petitioners undertook to stay in the fire hall on the Company premises, or within hailing distance, three and a
half to four nights a week. This involved no task except
to answer alarms, either because of fire or because the
sprinkler was set off for some other reason. No fires occurred during the period in issue, the alarms were rare,
and the time required for their answer rarely exceeded
an hour. For each alarm answered the employees were

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

paid in addition to their fixed compensation an agreed
amount, fifty cents at first, and later sixty-four cents.
The Company provided a brick fire hall equipped with
steam heat and air-conditioned rooms. It provided sleeping quarters, a pool table, a domino table, and a radio:
The men used their time in sleep or amusement as they
saw fit, except that they were required to stay in or close
by the fire hall and be ready to respond to alarms. It is
stipulated that "they agreed to remain in the fire hall and
stay in it or within hailing distance, subject to call, in
event of fire or other casualty, but were not required to
perform any specific tasks during these periods of time;
except in answering alarms." The trial court found the
evidentiary facts as stipulated; it made no findings of fact
as such as to whether under the arrangement of the parties and the circumstances of this case, which in some respects differ from those of the Armour case (ante, p. 126),
the fire-hall duty or any part thereof constituted working
time. It said, however, as a "conclusion of law" that
"the time plaintiffs spent in the fire hall subject to call to
answer fire alarms does not constitute hours worked, for
which overtime compensation is due them under the Fair
Labor Standards Act, as interpreted by the Administrator
and the Courts," and in its opinion observed, "of course
we know pursuing such pleasurable occupations or performing such personal chores, does not constitute work."
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
For reasons set forth in the Armour case decided herewith we hold that no principle of law found either in the
statute or in Court decisions precludes waiting time from
also being working time. We have not attempted to, and
we cannot, lay down a legal formula to resolve cases so
varied in their facts as are the many situations in which
employment involves waiting time. Whether in a concrete
case such time falls within or without the Act is a question
of fact to be resolved by appropriate findings of the trial

SKIDMORE v. SWIFT & CO.
134

Opinion of the Court.

court. Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., 317 U. S. 564,
572. This involves scrutiny and construction of the agreements between the particular parties, appraisal of their
practical construction of the working agreement by conduct, consideration of the nature of the service, and its
relation to the waiting time, and all of the surrounding
circumstances. Facts may show that the employee was
engaged to wait, or they may show that he waited to be
engaged. His compensation may cover both waiting and
task, or only performance of the task itself. Living quarters may in some situations be furnished as a facility of
the task and in another as a part of its compensation. The
law does not impose an arrangement upon the parties.
It imposes upon the courts the task of finding what the
arrangement was.
We do not minimize the difficulty of such an inquiry
where the arrangements of. the parties have not contemplated the problem posed by the statute. But it does
not differ in nature or in the standards to guide judgment
from that which frequently confronts courts where they
must find retrospectively the effect of contracts as to
matters which the parties failed to anticipate or explicitly
to provide for.
Congress did not utilize the services of an administrative
agency to find facts and to determine in the first instance
whether particular cases fall within or without the Act.
Instead, it put this responsibility on the courts. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, 523. But it did create
the office of Administrator, impose upon him a variety
of duties, endow him with powers to inform himself of
conditions in industries and employments subject to the
Act, and put on him the duties of bringing injunction
actions to restrain violations. Pursuit of his duties has
accumulated a considerable experience in the problems of
ascertaining working time in employments involving
periods of inactivity and a knowledge of the customs

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

prevailing in reference to their solution. From these he
is obliged to reach conclusions as to conduct without the
law, so that he should seek injunctions to stop it, and that
within the law, so that he has no call to interfere. He has
set forth his views of the application of the Act under different circumstances in an interpretative bulletin and in
informal rulings. They provide a practical guide to employers and employees as to how the office representing
the public interest in its enforcement will seek to apply
it. Wage and Hour Division, Interpretative Bulletin
No. 13.
The Administrator thinks the problems presented by inactive duty require a flexible solution, rather than the
all-in or all-out rules respectively urged by the parties in
this case, and his Bulletin endeavors to suggest standards
and examples to guide in particular situations. In some
occupations, it says, periods of inactivity are not properly
counted as working time even though the employee is subject to call. Examples are an operator of a small telephone exchange where the switchboard is in her home and
she ordinarily gets several hours of uninterrupted sleep
each night; or a pumper of a stripper well or watchman of
a lumber camp during the off season, who may be on duty
twenty-four hours a day but ordinarily "has a normal
night's sleep, has ample time in which to eat his meals,
and has a certain amount of time for relaxation and entirely private pursuits." Exclusion of all such hours the
Administrator thinks may be justified. In general; the
answer depends "upon the degree to which the employee
is free to engage in personal activities during periods
of idleness when he is subject to call and the number
of consecutive hours that the empldyee is subject to
call without being required to perform active work."
"Hours worked are not limited to the time spent in active
labor but include time given by the employee to the
"
employer ...

SKIDMORE v. SWIFT & CO.
134

Opinion of the Court.

The facts of this case do not fall within any of the
specific examples given, but the conclusion of the Administrator, as expressed in the brief amicus curiae, is that
the general tests which he has suggested point to the exclusion of sleeping and eating time of these employees
from the workweek and the inclusion of all other on-call
time: although the employees were required to remain
on the premises during the entire time, the evidence shows
that they were very rarely interrupted in 'their nornial
sleeping and eating time, and these are pursuits of a purely
private nature which would presumably occupy the employees' time whether they were on duty or not and which
apparently could be pursued adequately and comfortably
in the required circumstances; the rest of the time is different because there is nothing in the record to suggest
that, even though pleasurably spent, it was spent in the
ways the men would have chosen had they been free to
do so.
There is no statutory provision as to what, if any, deference courts should pay to the Administrator's conclusions.
And, while we have given them notice, we have had no
occasion to try to prescribe their influence. The rulings
of this Administrator are not reached as a result of hearing adversary proceedings in which he finds facts from
evidence and-reaches conclusions of law from findings of
fact. They are not, of course, conclusive, even in the cases
with which they directly deal, much less in those to which
they apply only by analogy. They do not constitute an
interpretation of the Act or a standard for judging factual
situations which binds a district court's processes, as an
authoritative pronouncement of a higher court might-do.
But the Administrator's policies are made in pursuance of
official duty, based upon more specialized experience and
broader investigations and information than is likely to
come to a judge in a particular case. They do determine
the policy which will guide applications for enforcement

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

by injunction on behalf of the Government. Good administration of the Act and good judicial administration alike
require that the standards of public enforcement and those
for determining private rights shall be at variance only
where justified by very good reasons. The fact that the
Administrator's policies and standards are not reached
by trial in adversary form does not mean that they are
not entitled to respect. This Court has long given considerable and in some cases decisive weight to Treasury
Decisions and to interpretative regulations of the Treasury
and of other bodies that were not of adversary origin.
We consider that the rulings, interpretations and opinions of the Administrator under this Act, while not controlling upon the courts by reason of their authority; do
constitute a body of experience and informed judgment
to which courts and litigants may properly resort for guidance. The weight of such a judgment in a particular case
will depend upon the thoroughness evident in its consideration, the validity of its reasoning, its consistency with
earlier and later pronouncements, and all those factors
which give it power to persuade, if lacking power to
control.
The courts in the Armour case weighed the evidence in
the particular case in the light of the Administrator's rulings and reached a result consistent therewith. The evidence in this case in some respects, such as the understanding as to separate compensation for answering alarms, is
different. Each case must stand on its own facts. But
in this case, although the District Court referred to the
Administrator's Bulletin, its evaluation and inquiry were
apparently restricted by its notion that waiting time may
not be work, an understanding of the law which we hold
to be erroneous. Accordingly, the judgment is reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings consistent
herewith.
Reversed.

