COMM'R v. SCOTTISH AMERICAN CO.
111

119

Syllabus.

late as currency." 10 All of these related statutes are a clear
indication of an intent to immunize from state taxation
only the interest-bearing obligations of the United States
which are needed to secure credit to carry on the necessary

functions of government. That intent, which is largely
codified in § 3701, should not be expanded or modified in
any degree by the judiciary.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is
affirmed.

Affirmed.
COMMISSIONER. OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
SCOTTISH AMERICAN INVESTMENT CO., LTD.'
NO. 52.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 16, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.
1. The conclusion of the Tax Court that the taxpayers in this case
had "an office or place of business". in the United States was supported by substantial evidence, and its determination 'that they
were therefore entitled to be taxed as resident foreign corporations
under § 231 (b) of the Revenue*Acts of 1936 and 1938 could not
be set aside on appellate review. P. 123.
2. -When the Tax. Court's factual inferences and conclusions are determinative of compliance with statutory requirements, the appellate courts are limited to a determination of whether they have
10 Act of Aug. 13, 1894,,28 Stat..278, § 1, 31 U. S. C. § 425.. See
notes 4 and 6, supra.
*Together with No. 53, Commissioner of InternalRevenue v. British

Assets Trust, Ltd., and No. 54, Commissioier of Internal Revenue v.
Second British Assets Trust, Ltd, .also. on writs of certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for theFourth Circuit; :and No. 220, Scottish
American Investment Co., Ltd. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
No. 221, British Assets Tiust, Ltd. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and No. 222, Second British Assets Trust, Ltd. v. C6mmissioner
of Intern'al Revenue, on writs of' eitiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third, Circuit
.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1944."
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

any substantial basis in the evidence. The judicial eye must not
in the first instance rove about searching for, evidence to support
other conflicting inferences and conclusions which the judges or
the litigants may consider more reasonable or desirable. It must
be cast; directly and' primarily 'upon the evidence in support of
''those made by .the Tax Court. If a substantial basis is lacking the
'appellate court may then indulge in making its own inferences
and conclusions or it may remand the case to the Tax Court for
further, appropriate proceedings.. But if such a basis is present
the process of judicial review is at an end. P. 124.
139 F. 2d 419, affirmed.
142 F. 2d'401, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 722 and post, p. 693, toreyiew in
Nos. 52, 53, and 54 affirmances, and in Nos. 220, 221, and
222 reversals, of decisions of the'Tax Court, 47 B. T. A.
474,:which reversed the Commissioner's determinations
of deficiencies in income tax.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
Mr. Sewall Key, and Miss Helen Goodner were on the
brief, for the Commissioner of Internal.Revenue.
Mr. Marion'N. Fisher, with whom'Mr. George Craven
was on the brief, for the taxpayers.
MR. JUSTICE MuRPHY delivered the 'opinion of the
Court..
We are confronted here with another aspect of- the
problem of the judicial reviewability of 'Tax Court
determinations.

-The three taxpayers involved in these cases are investment trusts -organized, under'the'laws of Great Britain,
with principal offices in Edinburgh,' Scotland. Each is
engaged in the business"of investing the funds of its security hlders for the primarypurpoe of' derivink income
from. investments. The TaxCourt, formerly known as
the Board of Tax Appeals, has held that these taxpayers

COMM'R v. SCOTTISH AMERICAN CO.
119

121

Opinion, of the Court.

had an "office or place of business" within the United
States during the four years in question and hence were
entitled to be taxed as-resident foreign corporations under
§ 231 (b) of the Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938. 47
B. T. A. 474. Such a holding would result in substantial
tax savings that would be unavailable to them had they
not maintained such an office in this country. The tax
returns for the various years having been filed in different
collectors' offices, the Commissioner appealed to two Circuit Courts of Appeal.1 The Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit, dealing with the' 1936 and -1937 tax
returns, affirmed the Tax Court's decision as to those
years. '139 F. 2d 419. - But the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit, considering the identical facts and
substantially the same statutes and regulations, held that
the taxpayers, did not have an office or place of business
within the United States during 1938 and 1939; the decision of the Tax Court as to those years was accordingly
reversed. 142 F. 2d 401. The irreconcilable conflict be.tween the two courts below led us to- grant certiorari.
The Tax Court made virtually undisputed findings of
fact which need not be repeated here in -detail. In brief,
it was found that the three taxpayers jointly appointed a
member of an American accounting firm as their assistant
secretary. He was instructed to establish and maintain an
office in the United States for them in 'order to obtain better representation of their interests in this-country, large
amounts of American secuities being held as investments
by'them. By establishing this :office they also sought
'The taxpayers' returns: for 1936 and 1937 were filed. with the
Collector of Internal Revenue for the District of Maryland. .The
1938 and 1939 returns were filed with the Collector of Internal Revenue at Newark, N. J. .Under
§ 1141 of the Internal Revenue Code,
decisions of the Tax Court may 'be reviewed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the circuit in which is located the Collector's office
where the tax return is filed.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

to obtain certain tax advantages. The office was accordingly opened and two full-time assistants to the assistant
secretary were employed. The American securities were
kept in the custody of two banks, through which the
securities were bought -and sold, and assistance on certain matters was obtained from the accounting firm.
This office of the taxpayers kept full records concerning
all American holdings, collected and received dividends
on such holdings, acted on proxies and performed other
duties relative to the maintenance of these investments.
The assistant secretary made periodic financial, economic
and political reports to the home offices, as well as specific
reports concerning particular holdings. United States
tax returns were prepared in this office and local expenses
were disbursed therefrom: All -decisions as to the buying
and selling of securities and as to investment policies, however, were made by the home offices in Edinburgh.
Certain inferences and conclusions were then drawn
from these facts by the Tax Court. It refused to consider
each separate activity in this office apart from its integral
relation to the entire investment trust business and was
of the opinion that "an office handling affairs to this extent must be regarded as real and substantial. It was
here- that a very large part of the affairs of petitioners in
this country were taken care of." The Tax Court further
concluded that this office was not a sham but was a place
for the necessary transaction of theAmerican affairs of the
taxpayers; "the office was used for.the regular transaction
of business and not as a place where. casual or incidental
transactions might be, or were, effected."
Utilizing the provisions of § 231 (b) and of the regulations promulgated thereunder,' the Tax Court reached the
2 Section 231 (b) of both the Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938 provides
for taxes on resident foreign corporations, defining them as "a foreign
corporation engaged in trade or business within the United States or
having an office or place of business therein." Revenue Act of 1936,

COMM'R v. SCOTTISH AMERICAN CO.
119

123

Opinion of the Court.

ultimate conclusion that the taxpayers maintained an
office or place of business within the United States and
were therefore entitled to be taxed as resident foreign
corporations. There is no charge here that the Tax Court
failed to follow the applicable statutes or regulations. No
clear cut mistake of law is alleged. Nor are any constitutional issues involved. The sole issue revolves about
the propriety of the inferences and conclusions drawn from
the evidence by the Tax Court. The taxpayers claim that
these determinations are supported by substantial evidence and hence were not reversible by an appellate court.
The Commissioner charges that the facts demonstrate
that the American office was not intended to be used for
the transaction of the regular business of making investments and that it was improper as a matter of law to
classify the taxpayers as resident foreign corporations.
The answer is to be found in a proper realization of the
distinctive functions of the Tax Court and the Circuit
Courts of Appeal in this respect. The Tax Court has the
primary function of finding the facts in tax disputes,
c. 690, 49 Stat. 1648, 1717; Revenue Act of 1938, c. 289, 52 Stat. 447,
530. The Tax Court and the two courts below did not pass upon
the Commissioner's contention, renewed before us, that the taxpayers
were not "engaged in trade or business" within the meaning of this
section. We likewise do not discuss that claim here since it is sufficient if it be found that the taxpayers in this case had "an office or
place of business" in this country. See B. W. Jones Trust v. Commissioner, 132 F. 2d 914, 917.
Art. 231-1 of Treasury Regulations 94, 'promulgated under the
Revenue Act of 1936, provides in part: "Whether a foreign corporation has an 'office or place of business' within the United States depends
upon the facts in a particular case. The term 'office or place of business,' however, implies a place for the regular transaction of business
and does not include a place where casual or incidental transactions
might be, or are, effected." Art. 231-1 of Treasury Regulations 101,
promulgated under the Revenue Act of 1938, and § 19.231-1 of Treasury Regulations 103, applying to the year 1939, are substantially the
same.

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

weighing the evidence, and choosing from among conflicting factual inferences and conclusions those which it considers most reasonable. The Circuit Courts of Appeal
have no power to change or add to those findings of fact or
to reweigh the evidence. And when the Tax Court's factual inferences and conclusions are determinative of compliance with statutory requirements, the appellate courts
are limited to a determination of whether they have any
substantial basis in the evidence. The judicial eye must
not in the first instance rove about searching for evidence
to support other conflicting inferences and conclusions
which the judges or the litigants may consider more reasonable or desirable. It must be cast directly and primarily upon the evidence in support of those made by the
Tax Court. If a substantial basis is lacking the appellate
court may then indulge in making its own inferences and
conclusions or it may remand the case to the Tax Court for
further appropriate proceedings. But if such a basis is
present the process of judicial review is at an end. Helvering v. National Grocery Co., 304 U. S. 282, 294; Wilmington Trust Co. v. Helvering, 316 U. S. 164, 168; Commissioner v. Heininger, 320 U. S. 467, 475; Dobson v.
Commissioner,320 U. S. 489.
Our examination of the record convinces us that the
factual inferences and conclusions of the Tax Court are
supported by substantial evidence. While decisions as to
the purchase and sale of American securities were made
in the Edinburgh offices, there was abundant evidence
that the American office performed vital functions in the
taxpayers' investment trust business. The uncontradicted evidence showed that this office collected dividends
from the vast holdings of American securities and did
countless other tasks essential to the proper maintenance
of a large investment portfolio. Although some matters
pertaining to the American business were taken care of
by others, this office performed a very substantial part

COMM'R v. SCOTTISH AMERICAN CO.
119

125

Opinion of the Court:

of these duties and could be held to haye satisfied the
statutory requirements. We cannot say that it was unreasonable; for the Tax, Court to conclude that this office
was more than a sham and: that it was used for the regular
transaction of business. Hence it was, proper as a matter
of law for the Tax Court to classify the taxpayers as
resident foreign corporations under § 231 (b). We do
not decide or imply •that the contrary infeiences and
onclusions urged by the Commissioner are entirely unreasonable or completely unsupported by any probative
evidence. We merely. hold that such contentions are
irrelevant so long -as there is adequate support in the
evidence for what the Tax Court has inferred. It follows
that the Tax Court's'conclusions in this case cAnnot be
set aside on appellate review.,
Moreover, this case exemplifies one type of factual dispute where judicial abstinence should be pronounced.
The decision as to the facts in this case, like analogous
ones that preceded it,3 is of little value as precedent. The
factual pattern is too decisive and too varied from case
to case to warrant a great expenditure of appellate court
energy on unravelling conflicting factual inferences. The
skilled judgment of the Tax Court, which is the basic
fact-finding and inference-making body, should thus be
given wide range in such proceedings.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals-for the
Fourth Circuit is affirmed. The judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit is reversed.

3 See Linen Thread Co.:v. Commissioner, 128F. 2d 166; Aktiebolaget Separator v. Commissioner, 45 B. T. A. 243, affirmed in 128-F.
2d 739; B. W. Jones Trust v. Commissioner, 132 F. 2d 914; Fajardo
Sugar Co; v. Commissioner, 20 B. T. A. 980; Recherches Industrielles
v. Commissioner, 45-B. T. A. 253."

