57

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
44

Syllabus.

rationale of Poe v. Seaborn, we should do so openly and

avowedly.

If the practical consequences of applying the

rationale of Poe v. Seaborn to other situations would be

disastrous to federal finance, it is time to reexamine the
case.

The rule which it fashions is the rule of this Court.

We have the responsibility for its creation. If we adhere
to it, we should apply it without discrimination. If we

are not to apply it equally to all states, we should be rid
of it.

This is the time to face the issue squarely.

McDONALD

v. COMMISSIONER

OF INTERNAL

REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 36.

Argued October 20, 1944.-Decided November 20, 1944.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a decision
of the Tax Court disallowing, in computing petitioner's income tax
for 1939, a deduction of campaign expenses-including an "assessment" by the political party of which he was a candidate-incurred
in contesting unsuccessfully an election for a judgeship which he had
been holding temporarily by appointment, is affirmed.

Opinion of FRANKFURTER, J., in which
and JACKSON, JJ., concur:

STONE, C.

J., and ROBERTS

1. Petitioner's campaign expenses were not deductible (1) under
§ 23 (a) (1) (A) of the Internal Revenue Code as expenses incurred in "carrying on any trade or business"; (2) under § 23 (e)
(2) as a loss incurred in a "transaction entered into for profit";
nor (3) under § 23 (a) (2) as expenses incurred "for the production
or collection of income." P. 60.
2. Under existing legislation, an incumbent is no more than
others entitled to deduction of campaign expenses. P. 63.
3. Affirmance of the decision of the Tax Court in this case is supported also by the rationale of Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S.
489. P. 64.
139 F. 2d 400, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

323 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 762, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Tax Court, 1 T. C. 738, which sustained the
Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in income
tax.

Mr. Frederick E. S. Morrison,with whom Mr. John W.
Bodine was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Mr. Sewall Key and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR.JUSTICE FRANKFURTER announced the conclusion
and judgment of the Court, and an opinion in which the
CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR.

JUSTICE

JACKSON concur.

This is a controversy concerning a deficiency in petitioner's income tax for 1939.
In December 1938, the Governor of Pennsylvania appointed petitioner to serve an unexpired term as Judge of
the Court of Common Pleas of Luzerne County. Under
Pennsylvania law such an interim judgeship is filled for a
full term at the next election. McDonald accepted this
temporary appointment with the understanding that he
would contest both the primary and general elections. To
obtain the support of his party organization he was obliged to pay to the party fund an "assessment" made by
the party's executive committee against all of the party's
candidates. The amounts of such "assessments" were
fixed on the basis of the total prospective salaries to be received from the various offices. The salary of a common
pleas judge was $12,000 a year for a term of ten years, and
the "assessment" against petitioner was fixed at $8,000.
The proceeds from these 'assessments" went to the general campaign fund in the service of the party's entire
ticket. In addition to this political levy, McDonald also
spent $5,017.27 for customary campaign expenses--adver-

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
57

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

tising, printing, travelling, etc. The sum of these outlays,
$13,017.27, McDonald deducted as a "reelection expense."
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue disallowed the
item and notified him of a deficiency of $2,506.77.
In appropriate proceedings before the Tax Court of the
United States that Court sustained the Commissioner, 1
T. C. 738, and its decision was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 139 F. 2d 400.
We brought the case here, 321 U. S.762, to give a definitive
judicial answer to an important problem in the administration of the federal income tax.
What class of outlays may, in relation to the federal
income tax, be deducted from gross income and in what
amount are matters solely for Congress. Our only problem is to ascertain what provisions Congress has made
regarding such expenditures as those for which the petitioner claims the right of deduction. The case is not embarrassed by any entanglement with corrupt practices
legislation either state or federal.
The materials from which must be distilled the will of
Congress are the following provisions of the Internal Revenue Code: § 23 (a) (1) (A), 56 Stat. 798, 819, 26 U.-S. C.
§ 23 (a) (1) (A) (Supp. 1943), in connection with § 24
(a) (1), 26 U. S.C.§ 24 (a)(1), and § 48 (d), 26 U. S.C.
§48 (d); § 23 (e) (2), 26 U. S. C. § 23 (e) (2); § 23 (a)
(2) as amended by § 121 of the Revenue Act of 1942, 56
Stat. 798, 819.
"All the ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year in carrying on any trade
or business" are allowed by § 23 (a) (1) (A) as deductions
in computing net income. According to tax law terminology (§ 48 (d) of the Internal Revenue Code) the performance by petitioner of his judicial office constituted
carrying on a "trade or business" within the terms of § 23
of the Internal Revenue Code. He was therefore entitled
to deduct from his gross income all the "ordinary and

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

323 U. S.

necessary expenses" paid during 1939 in carrying on that
"trade or business." He could, that is, deduct all expenses
that related to the discharge of his functions as a judge.
But his campaign contributions were not expenses incurred in being a judge but in trying to be a judge for the
next ten years. That is as true of the money he spent
more immediately for his own reelection as it is of the
"assessment" he paid into the party coffers for the success of his party's ticket. The incongruity of allowing such
contributions as expenses incidental to the means of earning income as a judge is underlined by the insistence that
payment of the "assessment" levied by the party as a prerequisite to being allowed to be a candidate is deductible
as a "business" expense. If such "assessments" for future
acquisition of a profitable office are part of the expenses in
performing the functions of that office for the taxable year,
then why should not the same deduction be allowed for
"assessment" against officeholders not candidates for immediate reappointment or reelection but who pay such
"assessments" out of party allegiance mixed or unmixed
by a lively sense of future favors?
In order to disallow them we are not called upon to find
that petitioner's outlays come within the prohibition of
§ 24 of the Internal Revenue Code in that they constituted "Personal . . . expenses." "Whether and to what
extent deductions shall be allowed depends upon legislative grace; and only as there is clear provision therefor
can any particular deduction be allowed." New Colonial
Ice Co. v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 435, 440. For these campaign expenses to be deductible, it must be found that
they can conveniently come within § 23 (a) (1) (A). To
put it mildly, that section is not a clear provision for such
an allowance. To determine allowable deductions by the
different internal party arrangements for bearing the cost
of political campaigns in the forty-eight states would disregard the explicit restrictions of § 23 confining deduct-

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
57

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

ible expenses solely to outlays in the efforts or services-here the business of judging-from which the income
flows. Compare Welch v. Helvering, 290 U. S. 111, 115116.
Petitioner next insists that inasmuch as he was defeated for reelection his campaign expenses constitute a
loss incurred in a "transaction entered into for profit" and
as such a deductible allowance by virtue of § 23 (e) (2).'
Such an argument does not deserve more than short shrift.
It suffices to say that petitioner's money was not spent to
buy the election but to buy the opportunity to persuade
the electors. His campaign contribution was not an insurance of victory frustrated by "an act of God" but the
price paid for an active share in the hazards of\ popular
elections. To argue that the loss of the election proves
that the expense incurred in such election is a deductible
"loss" under § 23 (e) (2) is to play with words.
Finally, reliance is placed on an amendment to the
Internal Revenue Code introduced by § 121 of the Revenue Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, 819. This amendment
was proposed by the Treasury (1 Hearings before Committee on Ways and Means, Revenue Revision, 1942, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 88) to afford relief for a specifically
defined inequitable situation which had become manifest
by the decision of the Court in Higgins v. Commissioner,
312 U. S. 212. In that case this Court held that by previous enactments Congress had made no provision for al'"Losses by individuals.-In the case of an individual, losses sustained during the taxable year and not compensated for by insurance
or otherwise . . . if incurred in any transaction entered into for
profit, though not connected with -the trade or business."
2 "Non-trade or non-business expenses.-In the case of an individual, all the ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred during
the taxable year for the production or collection of income, or for the
management, conservation, or maintenance of property held for the
production of income."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

323 U. S.

lowable deductions from profitable transactions not covered by the statutory concept of "business" income. But
of course earnings from "the performance of the functions of a public office" had specifically been so covered.
§ 48 (d).' Congress adopted the Treasury proposal for the
restricted purpose which originated it. And so'here the
difficulty is not that petitioner's expenditures related to
"non-business" income, and thus were excluded from the
legislative scheme before the 1942 Amendment, but that
they were not incurred in "carrying on" his "business" of
judging. The amendment of 1942 merely enlarged the
category of incomes with reference to which expenses were
deductible. It did not enlarge the range of allowable deductions' Of "business" expenses. In short, the act of
1942 in no wise affected the disallowance of campaign
expenses as consistently reflected by legislative history,
court decision, Treasury practice and Treasury regulations.' Nothing whatever in the circumstances attending
the adoption of § 121 of the Revenue Act of 1942 warrants
the suggestion that Congress unwittingly initiated a radi"Trade or business.-The term 'trade or business' includes the
performance of the functions of a public office." This amendment,
added by the Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 680, 696, was merely
"declaratory of existing law." S. Rep. No. 558, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 29. It had "nothing to do" with campaign expenses, 1 Hearings
before Committee on Finance on H. R. 8735, 73d Cong., 2d Seas.
(March 6, 1934), p. 29, which continued to be outside deductions
allowed by § 23 (a) (1).
4 "Adeduction under this section is subject, except for the requirement of being incurred in connection with a trade or business, to all
the restrictions and limitations that apply in the case of the deduction
under section 23 (a) (1) (A) of an expense paid or incurred in carrying on any trade or business." H. Rep. No. 2333, 77th Cong., 2d
Sess., p. 75; S. Rep. No. 1631, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 88.
5 Reed v. Commissioner, 13 B. T. A. 513, reversed on another
ground, 34 F. 2d 263, reversed sub nom. Lucas v. Reed, 281 U. S. 699;
Treas. Reg. 103, § 19.23 (a)-15; Treas. Reg. 103, §23 (o)-1; 0. D.
864, 4 Cum. Bull. 211 (1921).
3

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
57

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

cal change of policy regarding campaign expenditures.
Every relevant item of evidence bearing upon the history
of this amendment precludes the inference that the Treasury without intent and the Congress without appreciation
opened wide the door for the allowance of campaign expenditures as deductible expenses. It surely is not fair
to attribute to Congress the reversal of its policy and the
enactment of a far-reaching new policy in the absence of
any evidence, however tenuous or speculative, that Congress was legislating on the subject.
It is not for this Court to initiate policies as to the
deduction of campaign expenses. It is for Congress to
determine the relation of campaign expenditures to tax
deductions by candidates for public office, under such circumstances and within such limits as commend themselves to its judgment. But we certainly cannot draw intimations of such a policy from legislation by Congress
increasingly restrictive against campaign contributions
and political activities by government officials. The relatibn between money-and politics generally-and more
particularly the cost of campaigns and contributions by
prospective officeholders, especially judges-involves issues of far-reaching importance to a democracy and is
beset with legislative difficulties that even judges can
appreciate. But these difficulties can neither be met
nor avoided by spurious interpretation of tax provisions
dealing with allowable deductions.
To find sanction in existing tax legislation for deduction
of petitioner's campaign expenditures would necessarily
require allowance of deduction for campaign expenditures
by all candidates, whether incumbents seeking reelection
or new contenders. To draw a distinction between outlays
for reelection and those for election-to allow the former
and disallow the latter-is unsupportable in reason. It
is even more unsupportable in public policy to derive from
what Congress has thus far enacted a handicap against

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

323 U. S.

candidates challenging existing officeholders. And so we
cannot recognize petitioner's claim
on the score that he
6
was a candidate for reelection.

Even if these conclusions, in the setting of federal income tax legislation, derived less easily than they do from
the statutory provisions under scrutiny, we should not be
inclined to displace the views of the Tax Court with our
own. 7 Of course the Tax Court cannot define the limits
of its own authority. And in cases like Commissioner v.
Heininger,320 U. S. 467, where the Tax Court mistakenly
felt itself bound by superior judicial authority, we must
give corrective relief. But, as a system, tax legislation is
not to be treated as though it were loose talk or presented
isolated abstract questions of law casting upon the federal
courts the task of independent construction. Tax language normally has an enclosed meaning or has legitimately acquired such by the authority of those specially
skilled in its application. To speak of tax determinations
made in the system of review specially designed for federal tax cases as technical is not to imply opprobrium.
Having regard to the controversies which peculiarly call
for this Court's adjudication and to the demands for their
adequate disposition, as well as to the exigencies of litigation generally, relatively few appeals from Tax Court
decisions can in any event come here. That court of
necessity must be the main agency for nation-wide supervision of tax administration. Whatever the statutory or
practical limitations upon the exercise of its authority,
Congress has plainly designed that tribunal to serve, as it
were, as the exchequer court of the country. Due regard
8 In the interest of accuracy it is to be pointed out that petitioner
was not a candidate for reelection; he was a candidate for election
for the first time.
I That the Tax Court may, as is sometimes true even of other courts,
indulge in needless and erroneous observations is beside the point.
See Helvering v. Gowran, 302 U. S. 288, 245-246.

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
57

BLACK, J.,

dissenting.

for these considerations is the underlying rationale of
Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489. We are therefore
relieved from discussing the numerous cases in which the
Tax Court or its predecessor, the Board of Tax Appeals,
allowed or disallowed deductions and their bearing on the
situation before us. To do so involves detailed analysis
of the special circumstances of various "businesses" and
expenses incident to their "carrying on." We shall not
enter this quagmire of particularities.
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE RUTLEDGE concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE

BLACK,

dissenting.

Petitioner, a lawyer of many years' experience, gave up
his practice and accepted appointment as a judge upon
condition that he run to succeed himself. In campaigning
for reelection he incurred certain campaign expenses.
These expenses, according to the Circuit Court of Appeals
were "legitimate in their entirety," and "the objective of
the expenditures was to obtain a considerable amount of

money, over at least a decade of years." This Court has
not reached a contrary conclusion. For our purpose,

therefore, we may consider that the expenses were incurred, at least in part, "for the production . . . of in-

come." The literal language of § 121 of the Revenue Act
of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, 819, is broad enough to allow a deduction for expenses so induced.

That statute, which

Congress made applicable retroactively, allows the following deduction, in computing net income:
"In the case of an individual, all the ordinary and neces-

sary expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year
for the production or collection of income, or for the management, conservation, or maintenance of property held

for the production of income."
Prior to the enactment of this section, taxpayers in computing net income were not allowed deductions from gross

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

income for expenses incurred unless they were "ordinary
and necessary expenses paid or incurred . . . in carrying
on a trade or business." Congress, by this new section, introduced a new type of deduction, for as the House and
Senate Committees said, it allowed ". . . a deduction for
the ordinary and necessary expenses of an individual paid
or incurred . . . for the production and collection of
income . . ." Before the 1942 Act, an expense to be deductible had to be "ordinary and necessary" in its relationship to the taxpayer's business; under the new section
it need only be "ordinary and necessary" in its relationship to the taxpayer's efforts to produce income. Hence,
while the words "ordinary and necessary expenses," defining permissible deductions, remained unchanged in the
new section, they were given added content in their new
relationship. Obviously, Treasury regulations and decisions limiting the scope of "ordinary and necessary" as
applied to business expenses under the old law may be
wholly unsuited to define the meaning of those words in
their new context, .and such rulings and decisions can
throw little if any light on the meaning of § 121. Since the
enactment of the new section, the two questions essential
to determination of deductibility are: Were the expenses
incurred in an effort to produce income? Were these expenses, or part of them, "ordinary and necessary" in connection with that effort? These are in most instances pure
questions of fact and in cases such as this are to be determined by the Tax Court. See Commissioner v. Heininger,
320 U. S. 467, 475. The Tax Court did not make findings
of fact on these crucial issues, but categorically denied
that campaign expenses could be deducted at all. This,
I think, was an erroneous interpretation of § 121.
The 1942 Act articulated the purpose of Congress to
wipe out every vestige of a policy which denied tax deductions for legitimate expenses incurred in producing taxable income. Taxation on net, not on gross, income has

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

57

always been the broad basic policy of our income tax laws.
Net income may be defined as what remains out of gross
income after subtracting the ordinary and necessary expenses incurred in efforts to obtain or to keep it. In 1941,
this Court upheld in Higgins v. Commissioner, 312 U. S.
212, a finding of the Board of Tax Appeals that one who
managed, conserved and maintained his own property
was not engaged in a "trade or business" and for this reason was not entitled to deduct expenses incurred in producing his gross income. The effect of this holding was
to impair the general Congressional policy to tax only net
income. Congress in its Revenue Act of 1942, supra, took
note of this impairment and indicated in a most forthright
manner its allegiance to the net income tax policy. Except
for transactions carried on "primarily as a sport, hobby,
or recreation," see Senate and House Committee Reports,
supra, Congress provided a deduction for all ordinary and
necessary expenses incurred in the production of income.
The language it utilized was certainly far broader than
was required to meet the .narrow problem presented by
the Higgins case. Congress specifically disposed of the
Higgins problem by allowing a deduction for the expenses
incurred in ".

.

. the management, conservation or main-

tenance of property held for the production of income."
Had Congress simply enacted these words, and nothing
more, it might properly have been inferred that it intended to grant the type of deduction denied in the Higgins case, and no other. But it provided an additional
deduction, in the very same section, for expenses incurred
"in the production . . . of income."

To hold, therefore,

that Congress in this new section was concerning itself
only with the restricted issue created by the Higgins case,
is to deny any meaning or validity to this latter clause;
in a larger sense, such a construction carves out of the
section a vital segment which Congress intentionallyor so we must assume-put there.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

The Court interprets § 121 as not permitting the deductions, without denying that the expenditures were made
by petitioner for "the production of income." This interpretation rests in part on the conclusion that the Section
in no wise applies to expenses incurred in "business," and
that the deductions claimed by the petitioner were
in relation to a "business" explicitly so denominated
by § 48 (d) of the Internal Revenue Code.' The Court's
construction would appear to be quite different from that
of the House and Senate committees which reported their
construction of the measure to their respective bodies.
The reports expressly stated that "The Amendment . . .
allows a deduction for the ordinary and necessary expenses
of an individual incurred during the taxable year for the
production and collection of income . . . whether or not
such expenses are incurred in carrying on a trade or business." We cannot question the special competence of these
two committees to interpret their own legislation. Congress therefore apparently intended to obliterate the legal
niceties of the "trade or business" distinction, insofar as
they affected deductions for expenses incurred in the "production and collection of income."
The Court's decision is also grounded upon its reference
to congressional policy restricting compaign contributions
and political activities by government officials. We are
1Cf. United States v. Pyne, 313 U. S. 127. If the petitioner is to
be denied the benefit of the deduction under the 1942 amendment
(§ 121 (a) (2)) on the ground that these expenses were incurred in a
"business," then it is difficult to understand why he should be denied
the deduction under § 23 (a) (1) (A) of the Internal Revenue Code,
which provides deductions for expenses incurred in carrying on a
business. On the one hand, the Court denies the deduction because
the expenses were incurred in relation to a "business"; on the other
hand, the Court denies the deduction as a "business expense" on the
ground that his expenses "were not incurred in 'carrying on' his
'business' . . ." This is a distinction without a difference, two phrases

with but a single thought.

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
57

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

not dealing here, however, with campaign contributions
made by one person to further the candidacy of another.
Besides, Congress has not attempted to regulate expenditures of candidates for state office. I can hardly conceive
that we should infer that it wanted to penalize through
its tax laws. necessary campaign expenses, and thereby
condemn a practice of campaigning that is as old as our
country and which exists in every state of the Union.
Unless our democratic philosophy is wrong, there can be
no evil in a candidate spending a legally permissible and
necessary sum to approach the electorate and enable them
to pass an informed judgment upon his qualifications.
This is not, of course, to be taken as denoting approval of
corrupt campaign expenditures, or of any of the myriad
abuses which beset our systems of election. But we ought
not to eviscerate a revenue act, and deny this state official
a deduction for expenses incurred in a state election campaign, because Congress has limited campaign contributions in federal elections, and passed restrictive legislation
against political activities by federal employees.
The Tax Court too relied upon grounds of public policy.
It thought it contrary to "the basic ideology underlying
the principles of our government" to hold that a public
office constitutes a "trade or business," although Congress
for tax purposes had declared it was. The Tax Court
also thought that "under the ban of public conscience
and . . . public policy is the contention that expenditures made to promote one's candidacy for election to public office represent expenses 'paid . . . for the production
or collection of income.'" Public officials in this country
many of whom must campaign for election, are almost
universally paid for their services. That we do pay our
public servants is not at all inconsistent with the fact that
public service in a large measure represents an honest
expression of the social conscience. Nor does individual
dependence upon remuneration for such services detract

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

at all from the high and uncompromising standards of
those who perform public duties. Without monetary rewards office-holding would necessarily be limited to one
class only-the independently wealthy. Proposals to
accomplish such a purpose were deliberately rejected at
the very beginning of the Nation's history. I deny the
existence of a public policy which, while permitting Congress to tax the income of elected public officials, bars
Congress from allowing a deduction for necessary campaign
expenses.
It is said that Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489,
gives some support to the Court's decision, and that we
should not "displace the views of the Tax Court with our
own." Cf. Security FlourMills Co. v. Commissioner,321
U. S. 281. The Court's opinion does exactly that, for it
rests in part upon its holding that McDonald as a judge
was engaged in "business," while the Tax Court specifically found that he was not. Neither the Dobson case
nor any other to which the Court's opinion points has
indicated that we should automatically accept the Tax
Court's construction of a statute, while repudiating the
reasons on which its conclusion rested.
State officials all over this nation have been subject to
federal income taxes since 1939. When they run for office,
they must necessarily spend some money to advertise
their campaigns. We permit private individuals to deduct expenses incurred in advertising to get business. If
this petitioner had owned a factory, the operations of
which were suspended because of war contracts, and had
advertised goods which he could not presently sell, the
expenses of such advertising would have been deductible
2
under Treasury rulings.
2 I T. 3581, 1-2 Cum. Bull. 88 (1942); I. T. 3564, 1-2 Cum. Bull.
87 (1942). The following types of expenses have been held to be

deductible as business expenses: ".

.

. payments by brewers to

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
57

Brcx, J., dissenting.

So long as campaign expenses spent by candidates are
legitimate, ordinary, and necessary, I am unwilling to assume that Congress intended by the 1942 Act to discriminate against the thousands of state officials subject to federal income taxes. The language Congress used literally
protects petitioner's right to a deduction; nothing in the
legislative history indicates an intent to deny it. Certainly there are abuses in campaign expenditures. But
that is a problem that should be attacked squarely by the
proper state and federal authorities, and not by strained
statutory construction which permits a discriminatory
penalty to be imposed on taxpayers who work for the
states, counties, municipalities, or the federal government. I think we should reverse and remand this cause
to the Tax Court with instructions to pass upon the faotual questions which it did not previously determine.
MR.JusTIcE REED, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
TICE MURPHY join in this dissent.

and MR.JUS-

associations to combat prohibition; railroad contributions to an association conducting a campaign to create favorable public opinion;
fees paid to organizations to avoid labor trouble and combat unionization, and also union dues; payments to a fund to fight the boll
weevil by a taxpayer in the cotton business; membership fees or dues
paid by individuals or corporations to a chamber of commerce or
board of trade where the membership is employed as a means of
advancing the business interests of the individual or corporation;
...
contributions to a chamber of commerce engaged in- stimulating
and expanding local business; assessments paid by member banks
to a clearing house association as a means of furthering their business
interests, as well as amounts to be distributed by the association to
civic organizations for building up local trade; payments to organizations designed to expand trade; and membership dues paid associations organized to promote the business interests of the members
by the collection and dissemination to its members of information and
statistics." 4 Mertens, Law of Federal Income Taxation, 505-7, and
cases therein cited. For further analogous business expense deductions, see 4 Mertens, ibid., chapter 25.

