OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 U. S.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. LENROOT,
CHIEF OF CHILDREN'S BUREAU, UNITED
STATES DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 49.

Argued November 8, 9, 1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.

1. The legislative history of the child labor provisions of the Fair
Labor Standards Act of 1938 is inconclusive as to whether the Act
was intended to reach such child labor as is here involved. P. 500.
2. Section 12 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, which
provides that "no producer . . . shall ship or deliver for shipment
in commerce any goods produced in an establishment . . . in or
about which . . . any oppressive child labor has been employed
...." held inapplicable to a company engaged in the transmission
in interstate commerce of telegraph messages. P. 501 et seq.
(a) Transmission of telegraph messages is not production of
goods, within § 12 (a). As used in § 3 (j) of the Act, which defines
"produced" as meaning, inter alia, "handled" or "worked on," the
words "handled" and "worked on" include every kind of incidental
operation preparatory to putting goods into the stream of commerce, but do not include such handling or working on as accomplishes the interstate transit or movement in commerce itself.
P. 504.
(b) The word "ship," used in the Act in its ordinary meaning, is
inapplicable to telegraph messages. P. 506.
(c) The recoil on the public interest which would ensue is persuasive that the Act did not contemplate application of its indirect
sanctions to the telegraph company. P. 507.
141 F. 2d 400, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

322 U. S. 719, to review the affirmance of

a decree of injunction, 52 F. Supp. 142, restraining alleged
violations of the child labor provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938.
Mr. FrancisR. Stark for petitioner.

Mr. Douglas B. Maggs, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs. Robert L. Stern and Archibald Cox were
on the brief, for respondent.

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A decree of the District Court in substance restrains the
Western Union Telegraph Company from transmitting
messages in interstate commerce until for thirty days it
has ceased employment .of messengers under the age of
sixteen years and of certain others between the ages of
sixteen and eighteen. This was thought to be required by
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed, and we granted certiorari. 322 U. S.
719.
The Western Union Telegraph Company collects messages in communities of origin and dispatches them by
electrical impulses to places of destination where they are
distributed. Messengers are employed in both collection
and distribution. A little under 12 per cent of the messenger force is under sixteen years of age, and about 0.0033
per cent are from sixteen to eighteen years of age, engaged in the operation of motor vehicles, scooters, and
telemotors. These messengers are employed only in localities.where the law of the state permits it. It is not
denied that both groups are engaged in oppressive child
labor as defined by the Federal Act,1 if it applies. Whether
it does so apply is the only issue here.
1 "'Oppressive child labor' means a condition of employment under
which (1) any employee under the age of sixteen years is employed by
an employer (other than a parent or a person standing in place of a
parent employing his own child or a child in his custody under the age
of sixteen years in an occupation other than manufacturing or mining)
in any occupation, or (2) any employee between the ages of sixteen
and eighteen years is employed by an employer in any occupation which
the Chief of the Children's Bureau in the Department of Labor shall
find and by order declare to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children between such ages or detrimental to their health
or well-being . . ." 29 U. S. C. § 203 (1), June 25, 1938, c. 676, § 3 (1),
52 Stat. 1061.

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

I
It is conceded that the Act does not directly prohibit
the employment of these messengers, because it contains
no prohibition against employment of child labor in conducting interstate commerce. It is conceded, too, that
language appropriate directly to forbid this employment
was proposed to Congress and twice rejected.
The major events of the recorded legislative history of
this Act so far as relevant were as follows: After the President's labor message of May 24, 1937 (House Doe. No.
255, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2) reminded Congress that
"A self-respecting and self-supporting democracy can
plead no justification for the existence of child labor,"
bills carefully drawn to carry out his recommendations
were introduced in the Senate by Senator Black and in
the House by Representative Connery. These bills expressly and comprehensively prohibited the employment
of child labor either in interstate commerce or in production of goods intended for shipment in interstate commerce, as well as prohibiting shipment of goods made by
child labor.3 When the Black bill came to vote in the
2 The Act provides: "After the expiration of one hundred and twenty
days from the date of enactment of this Act, no producer, manufacturer, or dealer shall ship or deliver for shipment in commerce any
goods produced in an establishment situated in the United States in
or about which within thirty days prior to the removal of such goods

therefrom any oppressive child labor has been employed

. . ."

§ 12

(a), 29 U. S. C. § 212 (a).
3
"Sec. 7. It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly"(1) to transport or cause to be transported in interstate commerce, or to aid or assist in transporting, or obtaining transportation
in interstate commerce for, or to ship or deliver or sell in interstate

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

493

Opinion of the Court.

Senate, however, all of its child-labor provisions were
stricken, and the provisions of another bill recommended
by the Committee on Interstate Commerce were substituted.4 This prohibited the shipment in interstate comcommerce, or to ship or deliver or sell with knowledge that shipment
or delivery or sale thereof in interstate commerce is intended, any
unfair goods; or
"(2) to employ under any substandard labor conditions any employee engaged in interstate commerce or in the production of goods
intended for transportation or sale in violation of clause (1) of this
section." This was the provision in the bill S. 2475 as reported, respectively, by the Senate Committee on Education and Labor, July
6, 1937, and by the House Committee on Labor, August 6, 1937.
"Unfair goods" was defined to mean goods produced by any substandard labor condition, and the latter was defined to include child
labor. §§ 2 (a) (11) and (15).
4
This was S. 2226, reported in Sen. Rep. No. 726, 75th Cong., 1st
Sess. It was incorporated into the Black bill July 31, 1937, 81 Cong.
Rec. 7949-51. It provided: "Sec. 4 [§ 27 in the amended Black
bill]. It shall be unlawful for any person who"(a) has produced goods, wares, or merchandise in any State or
Territory, wholly or in part through the use of chifd labor, on or
after January 1, 1938; or
"(b) has taken delivery of such goods, wares, or merchandise in any
State or Territory with notice of their character whether by purchase or on consignment, as commission merchant, agent for forwarding or other purposes, or otherwise,
to transport or cause to be transported, in any manner or by any
means whatsoever, or aid or assist in obtaining transportation for
or in transporting such goods, wares, or merchandise in interstate
or foreign commerce or to sell such goods, wares, or merchandise
for shipment in interstate or foreign commerce or with knowledge
that shipment thereof in interstate or foreign commerce is intended."
Other provisions subjected child-labor-made goods to the laws of
the states into which they were shipped regardless of their interstate
character, forbade transportation into states in violation of their laws,
and forbade shipment in interstate commerce of goods not labelled

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

merce of goods made by child labor, but it did not prohibit the use of it in carrying on the commerce itself.
Thus the Senate deleted a direct prohibition of the employment under question here. But the House, in turn,
struck out all of the child labor provisions of the Senate
bill and substituted those of the Connery bill,5 which was
a counterpart of the Black bill. This was much amended,
but as passed at length it contained a provision forbidding
child labor in interstate commerce "in any industry affecting commerce" and a prohibition of shipment of childlabor-made goods. 6 The Senate, however, did not agree
to the House bill, but meanwhile had passed as a separate
measure its own child-labor bill as recommended by the
Interstate Commerce Committee.' This did not prohibit
child labor in interstate commerce. In this posture the
Fair Labor Standards bill went to conference. The Conference Report says that the Committee "adopts the child
labor provisions of the House amendment, with one exception. In view of the omission from the conference
agreement of the principle of section 6 of the House
as to their child-labor character. The bill represented the view that
several methods of circumventing Hammer v. Dagenhart should be
tried at the same time, in case any should be held invalid.
5 See S. 2475 as reported by House Committee on Labor, August
6, 1937, H. R. Rep. 1452, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.
6 "Sec. 10. (a). No producer, manufacturer, or dealer shall ship
or deliver for shipment in commerce any goods produced in an establishment situated in the United States in or about which within
30 days prior to the removal of such goods therefrom any oppressive
child labor has been employed . . .
"(b) No employer engaged in commerce in any industry affecting commerce shall employ any employee under any oppressive childlabor condition." 83 Cong. Rec. 7441; passed, id. at 7450 (75th
Cong., 3d Sess.).
7 S. 2226, identical with the child-labor provisions previously incorporated by the Senate in the Black bill in lieu of the latter's childlabor provisions. See note 4, supra. 81 Cong. Rec. 9320.

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

Opinion of the Court.

amendment, subsection (b) of section 10 of the House
amendment has been omitted." I The formula covering
every employer "in commerce in an industry affecting
commerce" had been employed in the wage and hour as
well as the child-labor provisions of the House bill, and
§ 6 conferred on the Secretary of Labor the power to decide whether an industry was one "affecting commerce."
With the elimination of this delegation to the Secretary,
the formula was changed in the wage and hour provisions,
making them apply to "every employee engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce." Instead of making a corresponding change in the child-labor
section, the conference committee dropped the whole
clause. No reason for this different treatment of the childlabor section was given.
No controversy appears to have arisen on the floor of
Congress as to inclusion of a direct prohibition applicable
to interstate commerce. On the contrary, the advocates
of the different versions passed by the Senate and House
seem to have overlooked the fact that one contained the
prohibition and the other did not; controversy was chiefly
over whether the Act should simply re-enact the method
of the 1916 Act, which had been held unconstitutional, or
should hedge by including labelling and other remedies
which might have a better chance of being upheld,
whether state-issued age certificates should be utilized,
how much discretion should be vested in the Department
of Labor, and whether particular goods only or all goods
from a particular establishment should be excluded from
commerce.' So far as coverage was concerned, all proponents were aware that any of the suggested versions
8 Conference Report, H. R. Rep. No. 2738, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., 32.

See 82 Cong. Rec. 1411-14, 1597-98, 1691-95, 1780-83, 1822; 83
Cong. Rec. 7399-7400.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

of legislation would reach only a small fraction of existing
child labor, 10 and the chief concern seems to have been
10 See, e. g., Joint Hearings on Fair Labor Standards, Senate Com-

mittee on Labor and House Committee on Education and Labor, 75th
Cong., 1st Sess., 382-84; Hearings on Regulation of Child Labor, Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 60;
remarks of Representative Schneider of the House Committee on
Education and Labor, 82 Cong. Rec. 1823, 83 Cong. Rec. 7401. The
Chief of the Children's Bureau of the Department of Labor presented to the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee figures, based
on the 1930 Census, showing the distribution by occupations of child
workers between 10 and 15 years:
Occupation
Number Per cent
Agriculture ........................... 469,497
70.4
Manufacturing and mechanical industries 68, 266
10.2
Trade ............................... 49,615
7.4
Domestic and personal service .......... 46, 145
7.0
Clerical occupations .................... 16,803
2.5
Transportation ........................
8,717
1.3
Extraction of minerals .................
1,184
0.2
Other (includes public and professional
service, forestry, and fishing) ..........
6, 891
1.0
Hearings, supra,p. 60.
Comparable figures based on the 1940 Census (but for the age
group 14-17) are as follows:
Occupation
Number Percent
Agriculture, forestry, fishing ............ 459, 966
54.
Mining ...............................
2, 769
0.3
Construction .......................... 10,476
1.2
Manufacturing ........................ 104,023
12.3
Transportation, communication, and other
public utilities ........................ 12, 103
1.4
Trade ................................ 109,687
13.0
Personal services ....................... 109,628
13.0
Amusement, recreation, and related services ........................
... 13, 013
1.6
Professional and related services ......... 12, 128
1.4
Other ...............................
12,944
1.5
Pamphlet, 1.940 Census Data on Employment and School Attendance of
Minors 14 through 17 Years of Age (Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau,
1943) 14.
Since agriculture was expressly excluded (and this was true of all

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

Opinion of the Court.

to eliminate child labor in mining and manufacturing industries shipping goods in interstate commerce," which
versions of child-labor legislation reported to the House and Senate),
the child labor clearly covered by the "producing goods for commerce"
formula was at most 12-15%, and most of the remainder was in
occupations clearly not covered by that formula, such as local retailing
and service industries. In this light, the omission of the one or two
percent in nonproducing interstate commerce industries, even if deliberate, would not have been incongruous.
The following exchange during the Senate Interstate Commerce,
Committee hearings is also of interest, in view of the Senate's rejection
of the Black-Connery child-labor provisions in favor of the Commerce
Committee proposal:
"Miss LENROOT . .. There has been a decided shift in the employment of children between the ages of 14 and 16 years from factories
to miscellaneous occupations in trade and service industries, which
would not be covered by any of the bills now pending before this committee, and which involve very often employment of children for long
hours at very low wages.
The CHAIRMAN. Let me ask you this question right there: Do you
think newsboys should be prohibited from working? I propound that
question to you because it has been put up to me.
Miss LENROOT. I think under any powers that I can see that Congress
has or that it may be construed to have now, it would be very difficult
if not impossible to bring newsboys in.
The CHAIRMAN. But do you think they should be prohibited from
such employment?
Miss LENRooT. I think if Congress had broad power to legislate on the
subject of child labor it would be desirable to work out some standard
which would be somewhat different from factory employment.
Senator MiN roN. In other words, you think it is improper to use
newsboys on the streets to sell newspapers?
Miss LENROOT. Under a certain age, and under certain conditions;
yes. I would make the age somewhat lower than the age for factory
employment, however."
Hearings, supra,p. 43.
" Thus Senator Wheeler, one of the authors of the measure adopted
by the Senate, said, "We are trying to give you something of a prac-,
tical nature that can be passed, that will perhaps not go as far as some
of us would like to see it go, but something which we can uphold as
constitutional, that will affect child labor, stop it, and prevent it ef-

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

was the most objectionable use of child labor. 12 This
had been the only object of the earlier legislation which
had been held unconstitutional; neither the Act of
1916,"3 held unconstitutional in Hammer v. Dagenhart,
247 U. S. 251, nor the Act of 1919," held unconstitutional
in Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co., 259 U. S. 20, had prohibited child labor in interstate commerce, but both
applied only to child labor in mines, quarries, mills,
canneries, workshops, factories, and manufacturing
establishments.
Both parties contend on the basis of legislative history
that the omission of a direct prohibition was deliberate;
the Company arguing that it was unwanted, the Government that it was believed superfluous. We think that disfectively in the factories, particularly in the sweatshops and southern
textile mills." "We want to keep them out of the factories where they
are being exploited and are in competition with men and in competition
with women who need work." Joint Hearings, supra, note 10, pp. 3334, 36. Representative Schneider, who was apparently in charge of
the child-labor provisions of the Labor Committee's bill on the floor,
reminded the members that although the bill went as far as it could,
"the child labor that is used in the production of articles for interstate
commerce constitutes only 25 percent of nonagricultural child labor
that exists today," and hence ratification of the child-labor amendment
was still essential. 82 Cong. Rec. 1823 (italics supplied). And Senator
Thomas, who was one of the Senate managers in the conference which
produced the final bill, interpreted the result of the compromise as
follows in his report to the Senate: "Neither House nor Senate yielded
its convictions, but both Houses obtained their common objective,
which was to abolish traffic in interstate commerce in the products of
child labor and in the products of underpaid and overworked labor."
83 Cong. Rec. 9163.
12 See generally the hearings preceding the enactment of the Child
Labor Act of 1916. Hearings on H. R. 8234, House Committee on
Labor, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.; Hearings on H. R. 8234, Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.
13
Act of Sept. 1, 1916, c. 432, § 1, 39 Stat. 675.
1 Act of Feb. 24, 1919, c. 18, § 1200, 40 Stat. 1057, 1138.

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

Opinion of the Court.

passionate reading will not disclose what either advocate.
sees in this history.
It is nowhere stated that Congress did, and no reason
is stated or is obvious why Congress should, purposely
leave untouched child labor employed directly in interstate commerce. It is true that no opponent of child
labor appeared to want to strike at all of it. Agriculture,
which accounts for from one-half to two-thirds of it, was
expressly exempted. Child actors, almost negligible in
number, were exempted. Telegraph messengers, so far as
the evidence reveals, although a familiar form of child
labor, were in no one's mind in connection with this prohibition, although the peculiarities of that service were
recognized in allowing them under certain conditions to
be employed at lower than minimum wages under the
Act."h But whether a majority of Congress, had this question come to its attention, would have regarded messenger
service as more like agriculture in being a relatively inoffensive type of child labor or as more like mining and
manufacturing, considered more harmful, is a question on
which we have no information whatever.
On the other hand, we find nothing to sustain the Government's position that "the omission resulted from the
realization that the indirect sanction of forbidding interstate shipment, coupled with broad statutory definitions"
would be construed to eliminate child labor from interstate commerce. No such realization appears in any com15 "The Administrator,... shall by regulations or by orders provide
for (1) the employment of learners, of apprentices, and of messengers
employed exclusively in delivering letters and messages, . . . at such
wages lower than the minimum wage applicable under section 6 and
subject to such limitations as to time, number, proportion, and length
of service as the Administrator shall prescribe . ." § 14, 29 U. S. C.
§ 214.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

mittee report, in the speech of any sponsor of the bills,
nor in debate either on the part of those supporting or of
those opposing the bills. The only explanation advanced
for the hypothesis that Congress deliberately chose indirection instead of forthright prohibition is an assumption that there were doubts of its constitutional power to
enact direct legislation. It is true that in Hammer v.
Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, this Court had held that-an
earlier attempt to exclude from interstate commerce products of mines and mills that employed child labor was an
invalid attempt to reach employment matters within the
control of the states. But even the prevailing opinion in
that case expressly conceded that Congress had ample
power to control the means by which interstate commerce
is carried on. 247 U. S. at 272. There was never a holding or an intimation in this or any other decision of this
Court that a direct prohibition of child labor in interstate
commerce would not be sustained. Restrictive interpretation in this field reached its maximum in Hammer v.
Dagenhart. It was decided by a closely divided Court
and at the time this bill was pending it was undermined
by later decisions and was thought to be marked, even
then, for consignment to the limbo of overruled cases, a
prediction that was shortly fulfilled. United States v.
Darby, 312 U. S. 100. Moreover, the purpose of the proponents of this Act to challenge the decision in Hammer
v. Dagenhart and require this Court to re-examine its
soundness is manifest in many ways. It can hardly be
supposed that Congress, while reasserting a power once
denied to it, feared to exercise directly a power often conceded and never denied.
Our search of legislative history yields nothing to support the Company's contention that Congress did not want
to reach such child labor as we have here. And it yields
no more to support the Government's contention that
Congress wanted to forego direct prohibition in favor of

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

Opinion of the Court.

indirect sanctions. Indeed, we are unable to say that
elimination of the direct prohibitions from the final form
of the bill was purposeful at all or that it did not happen
from sheer inadvertence, due to concentration on more
vital and controversial aspects of the legislation. The
most that we can make of it is that no definite policy
either way appears in reference to such an employment
as we have in this case, no legislative intent is manifest
as to the facts of this case which we should strain to
effectuate by interpretation. Of course, if by fair construction the indirect sanctions of the Act apply to this
employment, courts may not refuse to enforce them
merely because we cannot understand why a simpler and
more direct method was not used. But we take the Act as
Congress gave it to us, without attempting to conform it to
any notions of what Congress would have done if the circumstances of this case had been put before it.
II
The Government brought this action to reach indirectly
child labor in interstate commerce by bringing it under
the*prohibition of § 12 (a) of the Act, which so far as
material reads "no producer, manufacturer, or dealer shall
ship or deliver for shipment in commerce any goods produced in an establishment situated in the United States
in or about which within thirty days prior to the removal
of such goods therefrom any oppressive child labor has
been employed." Violation of this command is a crime
(§§ 15 and 16) punishable by a fine and imprisonment, and
threatened violations may be restrained by injunction.
The Government in this case sought injunction. Its complaint charges the Western Union with a violation in that
"defendant has been engaged in shipping telegraph messages in interstate commerce and in delivering telegraph
messages for shipment in interstate commerce, the said
goods having been produced in its said establishments in

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

or about which the aforesaid minors were employed, suffered, and permitted to work within thirty (30) days prior
to the removal of said goods therefrom."
Contention that this section is applicable to the Western Union is predicated on three steps, viz.: telegrams are
"goods" within its meaning; the Company "produces"
these goods within the Act because it "handles" them;
and transmission is "shipment" within its terms. If it can
maintain all three of these positions, the Government is
entitled to an injunction; if it fails in any one, admittedly
the effort to bring the employment under the Act must
fail.
The Government says messages are "goods" because
the Act defines "goods" as therein used to include among
other things "articles or subjects of commerce of any
character." § 3 (i). Of course, statutory definitions of
terms used therein prevail over colloquial meanings. Fox
v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 95. It was long ago
settled that telegraph lines when extending through different states are instruments of commerce and messages
passing over them axe a part of commerce itself. Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, 654. That
"ideas, wishes, orders, and intelligence" are "subjects" of
the interstate commerce in which telegraph companies engage has also been held. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, 356; cf. Associated Press v. Labor
Board, 301 U. S. 103, 128. It is unnecessary to decide
whether electric impulses into which the words of the message are transformed are "goods" within the Act (cf. Utah
Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Fisher'sBlend
Station v. State Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 650; Electric
Bond & Share Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission,
303 U. S. 419), since the complaint is not based on "shipment" of impulses as "goods" but only of messages. We
think telegraphic messages are clearly "subjects of com-

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

Opinion of the Court.

merce" and herce that they are "goods" under this Act,
as alleged in the complaint.
The next inquiry is whether the Western Union Telegraph Company is a producer of these goods within the
Act. Congress has laid down a definition that as used
in the Act "'produced' means produced, manufactured,
mined, handled, or in any other manner worked on . . ."
§ 3 (j). The Company, says the Government, not only
"handles" the message but "works on" it.
The Government contends that in defining "produced"
the statute intends "handled" or "worked on" to mean
not only handling or working on in relation to producing
or making an article ready to enter interstate transit, but
also includes the handling or working on which accomplishes the interstate transit or movement in commerce
itself. If this construction is adopted, every transporter,
transmitter, or mover in interstate commerce is a "producer" of any goods he carries. But the statute, while
defining "produced" to mean "handled" or "worked on"
has not defined "handled" or "worked on." These are
terms of ordinary speech and mean what they mean in
ordinary intercourse in this context. They serve a useful purpose when read to relate to all steps, whether manufacture or not, which lead to readiness for putting goods
into the stream of commerce. One who packages a product, or bottles a liquid, or labels, or performs any number
of tasks incidental to preparing for shipment might
otherwise escape the Act, for in a sense he neither manufactures, produces, or mines the goods. We are clear
that "handled" or "worked on" includes every kind of
incidental operation preparatory to putting goods into
the stream of commerce.
If we go beyond this and assume that handling for
transit purposes is handling in production, we encounter
results which we think Congress could not have intended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

The definitions of this Act apply to the wage and hour
provisions, as well as to the child labor provisions. Section 15 (a) makes it unlawful to transport or ship goods
in the production of which any employee was employed
in violation of the wage and hour provisions. But it
makes this exception: "except that no provision of this
Act shall impose any liability upon any common carrier for the transportation in commerce in the regular
course of its business of any goods not produced by such
common carrier." (Italics supplied.) This recognizes a
distinction between handling in transportation and producing, which is entirely put to naught by the Government's contention that by definition everyone who handles goods in carriage is thereby made a producer. The
exception then is as if it read "the Act shall impose no
liability on a common carrier for carrying goods that it
does not carry." One would not readily impute such an
absurdity to Congress; nor can we assume, contrary to
the statute, that "produced" means one thing in one
section and something else in another. To construe those
words to mean that handling in carriage or transmission
in commerce makes one a producer makes one of these
results inevitable. Congress, we think, did not intend to
obliterate all distinction between production and transportation. Its artificial definition, if construed to mean
that "handling" and "worked on" catches up into the
category of production every step in putting the subject of
commerce in a state to enter commerce, is a sensible and
useful one, not at odds with any other section of the Act.
We think the Government has not established its contention that the Western Union is a "producer" of telegraph
messages.
A third inquiry remains. Has the Company engaged in
"shipping telegraph messages in interstate commerce and
in delivering telegraph messages for shipment" as alleged? The learned trial court said, "More troublesome

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

Opinion of the Court.

is the question whether the defendant 'shipped' goods
incommerce." But he concluded on the basis of our decisions that the defendant was a "carrier of messages"
to be compared to a railroad as a "carrier of goods," citing
Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, 464, Pensacola
Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S.
1. He thought "ship" synonymous with "transport" and
"convey" and hence held that the Company was "shipping" messages.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, although it sustained the
injunction, took a contrary view of the nature of the enterprise. It analyzed the technology of transmitting messages. The message, it said, never leaves the originating
office. It is only a text for sending electrical impulses
"which are not only not the sender's message, but would
be totally incomprehensible to him or to the addressee,
if either could perceive them." It said, "From the foregoing it is at once apparent that there is not the least
similarity between what the defendant does and the transportation of goods by a common carrier. Thus it cut the
ground from under the Government's only allegation of
violation: i. e., that the Company is engaged in "shipping"
messages. It advanced this theory, apparently, to answer
the Company's contention that if it was likened to a carrier, as the District Court thought, it, was entitled to the
benefit of the carrier's exemption in § 15 (a) (1). We do
not think it is necessary for us to resolve the interesting
but baffling inquiry as to precisely what, if anything, moves
across state lines in the telegraphic process. In its practical aspects, which concern the public, transmission of
messages is too well known to require analysis; and in its
scientific aspects, which interest the physicist, it is too
little known to permit of it.
The statute applies the indirect sanctions of the Act
only to those who "ship" subjects of commerce. It does
not, however, define "ship." The Government says, "The

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

verb 'ship' is an imprecise word meaning little more than
to send or to transport." The term, not being artificially
defined by statute, is from the ordinary speech of people.
Its imprecision to linguists and scholars may be conceded.
But if it is common in the courts, the market places or the
schools of the country to speak of shipping a telegram or
receiving a shipment of telegrams, we do not know of it,
nor are examples of such usage called to our attention.
Nor, if one departs from the complaint in the case and
adopts the theory of the Court of Appeals; do we think
either scientist or layman would ever speak of "shipping"
electrical impulses. The fact is that to sustain the complaint we must supply an artificial definition of "ship,"
one which Congress had power to enact, but did not. We
do not think "ship" in this Act applies to intangible messages, which we do not ordinarily speak of as being
"shipped."
Another consideration convinces us that this Act did
not contemplate its application by indirection to such a
situation as we have in hand. Its indirect sanctions are
well adapted to the producer, miner, manufacturer, or
handler in preparation for commerce. They become
clumsy and self-defeating when applied to telegraph companies, railroads, interstate news agencies, and the like,
as this decree demonstrates. The Western Union is not
forbidden by the decree to employ child labor, nor could
it be, for it is not so forbidden by the Act. As construed
by the courts below, what is prohibited is the sending of
telegrams-so long as it employs child labor and for a
period of thirty days after it quits. This, as the Company
observes, is a sanction that the Court could not permit to
become effective. A suspension of telegraphic service for
any period of time would be intolerable. Of course, the
Government says, the Company could escape its effect
except for the thirty-day period by discharging some

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

Opinion of the Court.

twelve per cent of its messengers, who are under age but
whom neither the Court nor Congress has forbidden it
to employ. It also suggests that the thirty-day period
may be absorbed in delays. Or, it says, the District Court
or Circuit Court of Appeals "may properly stay the injunction further in order to permit the transmission of
messages until petitioner has a reasonable time to
comply."
Of course literal compliance could be made only by
ceasing to send messages, since that is all the decree does
or could command. But the Company could and probably would avoid doing what the decree orders, by doing
what it does not and cannot order: viz., discharging the
under-age part of its messenger force. This, however,
would leave the thirty-day period after our mandate becomes final and goes down, during which the courts must
stay the force of the injunction, either candidly 6r by
dilatory tactics, or the Company, by continuing service
to the public, would be in contempt. Even if this were
done, courts cannot stay the provisions under which the
sending of messages during such period is made criminal.
We may suppose the Government would not actually
prosecute. But that is only because the sanctions of the
Act, if applied to such a situation, are so impractical that
a violation adjudged by us to be proven by stipulation
of the parties as to the facts would be waived. We think
if Congress contemplated application of this Act to the
Western Union it would have provided sanctions more
suitable than to forbid telegrams to be sent by the only
Company equipped on a nation-wide scale to serve the
public in sending them. Nor will we believe without more
express terms than we find here that Congress intended
the courts to issue an injunction which as a practical matter they would have to let become a dead letter, or enforce at such cost to the public, if a defendant proved

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

stubborn and recalcitrant. If the indirect sanctions of
this Act were literally to be applied to great agencies of
transportation and communication, the recoil on the public interest would be out of all proportion to the evil sought
to be remedied.
However, the indirect sanction of cutting one's goods
off from the interstate market is one which can be applied
to producers, as we have defined them herein, effectively and without injury to the public interest. If such
a producer using child labor is refused facilities to transport his goods, competitors usually come in, needs are
still supplied, and only the offender suffers. These indirect
sanctions can practically and literally be applied to the
miner and the manufacturer with no substantial recoil on
the public interest, and with no gestures by the courts
that they cannot follow through to punish disobedience.
Ascertainment of the intention of Congress in this situation is impossible. It is to indulge in a fiction to say
that it had a specific intention on a point which never
occurred to it. Had the omission of a direct prohibition
of this employment been called to its attention, it might
well have supplied it, for any reason we can see. Congress of course has the right to be indirect where it could
be direct and to be obscure and confusing where it could
be clear and simple. But had it determined to reach this
employment, we do not think it would have done so by
artifice in preference to plain terms. It is admitted that
it is beyond the judicial power of innovation to supply
a direct prohibition by construction. We think we should
not try to reach the same result by a series of interpretations so far-fetched and forced as to bring into question
the candor of Congress as well as the integrity of the interpretative process. After all, this law was passed as the
rule by which employers and workmen must order their
daily lives. To translate this Act by a process of inter-

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

pretation into an equivalent of the bills Congress rejected
is, we think, beyond the fair range of interpretation. Declining that, we cannot sustain the Government's bill of
complaint.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE MURPHY, dissenting.
By reading into the Fair Labor Standards Act an exception that Congress never intended or specified, this
Court has today granted the Western Union Telegraph
Company a special dispensation to utilize the channels of
interstate commerce while employing admittedly oppressive child labor. Such a result is reached, to borrow the
words of the majority opinion, "by a series of interpretations so far-fetched and forced as to bring into question
the candor of Congress as well as the integrity of the
interpretative process."

The opinion of the Court demonstrates that the legislative history of the Fair Labor Standards Act is inconclusive insofar as the failure to insert a provision directly
prohibiting child labor in interstate commerce is concerned. But that factor is neither determinative nor even
significant in the setting of this case. The issue is not
whether the-child labor provisions of § 12 (a) apply to a
company solely engaged in interstate commerce or in the
transporting of goods in such commerce. Rather the
crucial problem is whether Western Union, in preparing
messages for transmission in interstate commerce, may
fairly be said to be a "producer" of "goods" which it
"ships" in interstate commerce so as to come within the
purview of § 12 (a). That Western Union may also be
the interstate transmitter of messages is beside the point;
it is enough if it is a producer of goods destined for interstate shipment. Indeed, § 15 (a) (1) expressly envisages
just such a situation. It provides in part that no common
carrier shall be liable under this Act "for the transporta-

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

tion in commerce in the regular course of its business of
any goods not produced by such common carrier," thereby
recognizing that if a carrier is actually the "producer" of
the "goods" it transports it may be visited with the liabilities of § 12 (a).
In approaching the problem of whether Western Union
is a producer of goods shipped in interstate commerce
we should not be unmindful of the humanitarian purposes which led Congress to adopt § 12 (a). Oppressive
child labor in any industry is a reversion to an outmoded
and degenerate code of economic and social behavior.
In the words of the Chief Executive, "A self-supporting
and self-respecting democracy can plead no justification
for the existence of child labor. .

.

. All but the hope-

lessly reactionary will agree that to conserve our primary
resources of man power, Government must have some
control over

. . .

the evil of child labor. . .

."

Mes-

sage of the President to Congress, May 24, 1937, House
Doc. No. 255 (75th Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 2. Congress sought
in § 12 (a) to translate these sentiments from rhetoric to
law. That it may not have done so to the full limits of
its constitutional power is not of controlling significance
here. It matters only that courts should not disregard
the legislative motive in interpreting and applying the
statutory provisions that were adopted. If the existence
of oppressive child labor in a particular instance falls
within the obvious intent and spirit of § 12 (a), we should
not be too meticulous and exacting in dealing with the
statutory language. To sacrifice social gains for the sake
of grammatical perfection is not in keeping with the high
traditions of the interpretative process.
The language of § 12 (a), when viewed realistically
and with due regard for its purpose, compels the conclusion that Western Union has been guilty of a violation of
the child labor provisions. Oppressive child labor con ii-

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

tions are admitted and the only issue concerns the application of the words "goods," "producer" and "ships" to
the activities of Western Union.
1. The opinion of the majority concedes that telegraphic messages are "subjects of commerce," Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 229-230, and hence are "goods" as
defined in § 3 (i) of the Act.
2. The majority holds, however, that Western Union
is not a "producer" of goods, even though the term "produced" is defined in § 3 (j) to include "handled, or in any
manner worked on." It further holds that the words
"handled" or "worked on" refer only to incidental operations preparatory to putting goods in the stream of commerce and that they cannot relate to a "handling" or
"working on" which accomplishes the interstate movement in commerce itself (which is said to characterize
Western Union's activities). Even if we assume that this
distinction is correct, however, it does not preclude Western Union from being described as a "producer." Contrary to the view expressed in the majority opinion, the
Government does not ground its case in this respect on a
claim that mere transportation of goods by a carrier such
as Western Union constitutes a "handling" or "working
on" so as to make that carrier a producer. The contention,
rather, is that Western Union employees, prior"to the introduction of the messages into interstate commerce,
"work on" and "handle" the messages. And that contention would seem to be justified by the facts.
Before the messages actually move in commerce, Western Union employees aid in the composition of the messages, write them on blanks, mark the written messages,
transform them into electric impulses and perform numerous other incidental tasks. In a very real and literal sense,
therefore, they "handle" and "work on" a message before
it enters the channels of interstate commerce. The unique-

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

ness of Western Union insofar as it acts also as the interstate carrier of these messages does not negative the fact
that it actually processes and hence "produces" the messages as a preface to that interstate transit.
3. Finally, the majority does not think that the verb
"ship" is applicable to the transmission either of electrical
impulses or intangible messages and hence Western Union
does not "ship" goods in commerce within the meaning
of § 12 (a). As a matter of linguistic purism, this conclusion is not without reasonableness. But proper respect
for the legislative intent and the interpretative process
does not demand fastidious adherence to linguistic purism.
This Court does not require that Congress spell out all
types of "goods" or "subjects of commerce" that move in
interstate commerce; no more should it require that Congress spell out every verb that may be in usage as to
various goods or subjects of commerce. If the verb actually used by Congress may fairly be interpreted to cover
the particular situation in a manner not at variance with
the intent and spirit of the statute, no sound rule of law
forbids such an interpretation.
As a matter of fact, it is unnecessary to strain reality
in order to apply the verb "ship" to the transmission of
telegraph messages. The verb is defined by competent
authority to mean "to transport, or commit for transportation.", Webster's New International Dictionary (2d
Ed.). This Court itself has referred to telegraph companies as engaged in "transportation" of messages. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, 464. Since
messages are "goods" and since Western Union is the
"producer" of them, there is no difficulty in saying that
it "ships" or "transports" the messages in commerce when
its employees send them across state lines.
Such an interpretation and application of the clear
statutory words are not only realistic but are in obvious

WESTERN UNION v. LENROT.
490

MuRPHY,J., dissenting.

accord with the statutory policy of eliminating oppressive
child labor in industries transporting goods and subjects
of commerce across state lines. The natural ease with
which these words fit the activities of Western Union adds
weight to the conclusion that § 12 (a) covers just such
a situation as this. There is nothing in the statute or in
its legislative background to suggest that telegraph companies are exempt and the consistent administrative attitude has been that no such exemption exists. Child Labor
Regulation No. 3, issued by the Chief of the Children's
Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor, May 8, 1939; Wage
and Hour Field Instructions, June 4, 1942. It is indisputable that the evils of oppressive child labor allow no,
distinction in favor of the employment of telegraph messengers of tender years. Cf. United States v. Rosenwasser, 323 U. S. 360. Indeed, the reference to messengers in
§ 14 of the Act is evidence of an awareness by Congress
that the Act would reach such persons. If Congress
found it necessary to provide in § 14 for certain exceptions as to minimum wages for messengers, it seems clear
that Congress thought that all other appropriate provisions of the Act applied to all messengers absent specific
exceptions. Moreover, even § 14 makes no distinction
between messengers working in and about manufacturing
establishments shipping goods in commerce, who presumably still come within the provisions of § 12 (a) under the majority's view, and those employed by telegraph
companies. Under these circumstances we are not justified in delineating an exception to § 12 (a) that Congress
itself did not see fit to make explicitly.
A word need be said about the Court's fear of enforcing
§ 12 (a) against Western Union. Pursuant to the Congressional mandate, the trial court enjoined Western
Union from transmitting or delivering for transmission
in commerce "telegraph or other messages or any other

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

goods" produced by it in any establishment in or about
which within 30 days prior to the transmission there shall
have been employed any oppressive child labor. It is
said, however, that this is a sanction that we dare not
permit to become effective since the suspension of telegraphic service for 30 days would be intolerable. Such a
sanction is said to be well adapted to the producer, miner,
manufacturer or handler but clumsy and self-defeating
when applied to telegraph companies, railroads and the
like. Convinced by these considerations that the Act did
not contemplate its application to this situation, the Court
proceeds to carve out a judicial exception to § 12 (a) for
all interstate carriers.
However much we may dislike the imposition of Congressional sanctions against a particular industry or field
of endeavor, the judicial function does not allow us to disregard that which Congress has plainly and constitutionally decreed and to formulate exceptions which we think,
for practical reasons, Congress might have made had it
thought more about the problem. To read in exceptions
based upon the nature or importance of the particular
industry or corporation is dangerous precedent. If the
suspension of telegraphic service for 30 days is so intolerable as to justify lifting the burden of § 12 (a) from.the
shoulders of Western Union, can it not be argued with
equal fervor that a 30-day injunction against interstate
shipments by an airplane manufacturer, a munitions plant
or some other industry vital to a war or peace time economy would be likewise intolerable? What valid distinction in this respect is there between interstate carriers and
manufacturers or producers? Moreover, are we to examine the competitive situation or degree of importance
of a particular company to determine the amount of intolerableness which a suspension of interstate transportation might engender? These and countless other legis-

WESTERN UNION v. LENROOT.
490

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

lative problems present themselves when we embark upon
a course of fashioning exceptions to a statute according to
our own conceptions of appropriateness of the sanctions
of an Act. Such a course is an open invitation to wholesale veto of valid and reasonable legislative provisions by,
means of judicial refusal to apply statutory enforcement
measures. Adherence to the sound rule that inequities
and hardships arising from statutory sanctions are for
Congress rather than the courts to remedy by way of
amendment to the statute is desirable and necessary in
such a situation.
We are charged with the duty of interpreting and applying acts of Congress in accordance with the legislative
intent. Courts are not so impotent that they cannot perform that duty and, at the same time, grant stays or other
appropriate relief in the public interest should the occasion demand it. See Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1, 81; United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
221 U. S. 106, 187, 188. Thus if the injunction is granted
here against Western Union, we will have vindicated to
that extent the public policy against oppressive child
labor. If a 30-day suspension of telegraph messages
would unduly harm the public interest, a stay of the mandate or of the injunction can be granted until at least 30
days have elapsed during which no oppressive child labor
has been employed by Western Union. Thus by fashioning remedies through injunctions and stays we can aid in
the elimination of oppressive child labor without undue
hardship on the public. This can and should be done
without abdicating our judicial function and assuming the
role of the legislature.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join in

this dissent.

and MR.

