CLINE v. KAPLAN.
Opinion of the Court.

CLINE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF GOLD
MEDAL LAUNDRIES, INC. v. KAPLAN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 307. Submitted November 13, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.
1. Where a bona fide claim adverse to that of the bankrupt estate
is asserted as to property which is not in the actual or constructive
possession of the bankruptcy court, the claimant has the right to
have the merits of his claim adjudicated in a plenary suit. P. 98.
2. The bankruptcy court has the power and the duty to examine
the adverse claim to ascertain whether it is ingenuous and substantial. P. 99.
3. When it is established that the adverse claim is substantial, the
bankruptcy court can not retain jurisdiction unless the claimant
consents to its adjudication by that court. P. 99.
4. Consent to adjudication by the bankruptcy court of an adverse
claim is lacking where the claimant has throughout resisted a petition for a turnover order and has made formal objection to the
exercise of summary jurisdiction before the entry of a final order.
Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18. P. 99.
5. Upon the facts of this case, held that a claimant adverse to the
bankrupt estate, as to property which was not in the actual or
constructive possession of the bankruptcy court, did not consent
to adjudication of the claim by the bankruptcy court. P. 100.
142 F. 2d 301, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 691, to review a judgment which,
reversing orders of the bankruptcy court, sustained the
referee's dismissal, for lack of jurisdiction, of a petition
for a turnover order.
Mr. Edward Rothbart submitted for petitioner.

Mr. Norman H. Nachman submitted for respondents.
MR.

JUSTIcE FRANKFURTR

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case concerns the powers of a bankruptcy court
when a claim adverse to the bankrupt estate is asserted.

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

An involuntary petition for adjudication in bankruptcy
was filed against Gold Medal Laundries on September 22,
1941. A month later the adjudication was made. On
December 22, petitioner, the trustee in bankruptcy, filed
with the referee a petition for an order directing the respondents to turn over certain assets, allegedly belonging
to the bankrupt, which had come into possession of the
respondents some fifteen months prior to the institution
of the bankruptcy proceedings. Respondents' answer
claimed ownership in themselves and prayed dismissal of
the petition. Extensive hearings were held to determine
whether the property was in the constructive possession
of the bankrupt. ri ur to the close of the hearings respondents orally moved that the petition be dismissed
for want of summary jurisdiction and a formal motion
to this effect was filed on May 19, 1942. On June 24, 1942,
the referee granted this motion. The District Court reversed, whereupon the referee denied a turnover order on
the merits and the District Court again reversed. Appeals
from both decisions of the District Court were taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
Having found that the objection to the summary jurisdiction had been timely and had not been waived, that court
sustained the referee's dismissal for lack of jurisdiction.
142 F. 2d 301. Conflicting views having been expressed
in different circuits on matters affecting bankruptcy administration which ought not to be left in doubt, we
granted certiorari.
A bankruptcy court has the power to adjudicate summarily rights and claims to property which is in the actual
or constructive possession of the court. Thompson v.
Magnolia Co., 309 U. S. 478, 481. If the property is not
in the court's possession and a third person asserts a bona
fide claim adverse to the receiver or trustee in bankruptcy,
he has the right to have the merits of his claim adjudicated "in suits of the ordinary charactpr, with the rights

CLINE v. KAPLAN.
97

Opinion of the Court.

and remedies incident thereto." Galbraithv. Vallely, 256
U. S. 46, 50; Taubel-Scott-Kitzmiller Co. v. Fox, 264
U. S. 426. But the mere assertion of an adverse claim
does not oust a court of bankruptcy of its jurisdiction.
Harrison v. Chamberlin, 271 U. S. 191, 194. It has both
the power and the duty to examine a claim adverse to
the bankrupt estate to the extent of ascertaining whether
the claim is ingenuous and substantial. Louisville Trust
Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18, 25-26. Once it is established that the claim is not colorable nor frivolous, the
claimant has the right to have the merits of his claim
passed on in a plenary suit and not summarily. Of such
a claim the bankruptcy court cannot retain further jurisdiction unless the claimant consents to its adjudication in the bankruptcy court. MacDonald v. Plymouth
County Trust Co., 286 U. S. 263.
-Consent to proceed summarily. may be formally expressed, or the right to litigate the disputed claim by the
ordinary procedure in a plenary suit, like the right to a
jury trial, may be waived by failure to make timely objection. MacDonald v. Plymouth County Trust Co.,
supra at 266-267. Consent is wanting where the claimant has throughout resisted the petition for a turnover
order and where he has made formal protest against the
exercise of summary jurisdiction by the bankruptcy court
before that court has made a final order. Louisville Trust
Co. v. Comingor, supra. In the Comingor case although
the claimant "participated in the proceedings before the
referee, he had pleaded his claims in the outset, and he
made his formal protest to the exercise of jurisdiction before the final order was entered." Id. at 26. This, it was
held, negatived consent and thereby the right to proceed
summarily.
Thus, what a bankruptcy court may do and what it may
not do when a petition for a turnover order is resisted by
an adverse claimant is clear enough. But whether or not

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

there was the necessary consent upon which its power to
proceed may depend is, as is so often true in determining
consent, a question depending on the facts of the particular case. And so we turn to the facts of this case.
When the trustee filed his petition for a turnover order,
respondents denied any basis for such an order and asserted
their adverse claim. There is no dispute about that.
Before the matter went to the referee for determination,
respondents explicitly raised objection to the disposition
of their claim by summary procedure. They later amplified that objection by a written motion and supported it
by extended argument. The established practice based
on the criteria of the Comingor case was thus entirely
satisfied. We reject the suggestion that respondents conferred consent by participating in the hearing on the
merits. See In re West Produce Corp., 118 F. 2d 274, 277.
In view of the referee's opinion that the hearings were held
to determine whether the bankrupt had constructive possession of the property, the petitioner can hardly claim
the benefit of the restricted rule which he invokes. In any
event, such a view is contrary to that which was decided in
Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor,supra, which held, as we
have noted, that consent is not given even though claimant "participated in the proceedings" provided formal
objection to summary jurisdiction is made before entry
of the final order. And the Comingor case "has been repeatedly cited as determinative of the law and practice in
similar cases." Galbraithv. Vallely, 256 U. S. 46, 49.
We find no merit in other questions raised by the petitioner. But they do not call for elaboration.
Affirmed.

