316

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

323 U. S.

ulate that the review should be had in that court. On filing the stipulation the cause was then pending in the court
having venue, as well as jurisdiction, and the case was
improperly dismissed.
Reversed.
COFFMAN v. BREEZE CORPORATIONS, INC.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 71. Argued December 7, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.
1. A bill of complaint by a patent owner against licensees, seeking an
adjudication of unconstitutionality of the Royalty Adjustment Act
and an injunction against the licensees from complying with the Act
and orders issued pursuant thereto, but seeking no recovery of
royalties alleged to be due from the licensees, held to state no
cause of action in equity and to present no case or controversy
within the judicial power of the United States as defined by § 2 of
Article III of the Constitution. P. 321.
2. In the circumstances disclosed by the record and for purposes of
the present suit, the constitutionality of the Act is without legal
significance and can involve no justiciable question unless and until
the complainant seeks recovery of the royalties, and then only if the
Act is relied on as a defense. P. 324.
3. The declaratory judgment procedure is available in the federal
courts only when an actual case or controversy is involved, and may
not be used to secure merely an advisory opinion. P. 324.
4. The Court will not pass upon the constitutionality of legislation in
a suit which is not adversary, or upon the complaint of one who
fails to show that he is injured by its operation, or until it is
necessary to do so to preserve the rights of the parties. P. 324.
55 F. Supp. 501, affirmed.
APPEAL from the dismissal by a District Court of three
judges of the complaint in a suit by a patent owner against
his licensees, challenging the constitutionality of the
Royalty Adjustment Act. The United States had been
permitted to intervene.

COFFMAN v. BREEZE CORPORATIONS. 317
316

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. James D. Carpenter,Jr. and John G. Buchanan,
with whom Mr. William H. Eckert was on the brief, for
appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
GeneralFahy and Messrs. Paul A. Freund and Jerome H.
Simonds were on the brief, for the United States, appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question is whether this suit, brought in the District Court by appellant, a patent owner, to enjoin his
licensees from paying accrued royalties to the Government
under the Royalty Adjustment Act of October 31, 1942, 56
Stat. 1013, 35 U. S. C. Supp. III, §§ 89-96, and attacking
the constitutionality of the Act, was rightly dismissed for
want of equity jurisdiction and for want of a justiciable
case or controversy.
Appellant brought the present suit in the District
Court for New Jersey, joining as defendants Federal
Laboratories, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and appellee
Breeze Corporations, Inc., a New Jersey corporation.
Federal was not served with process and did not appear,
and the cause has proceeded against appellee Breeze alone.
The case being one in which the constitutionality of an
Act of Congress is challenged and in which a preliminary
and final injunction is asked restraining "the enforcement,
operation, or execution of, or setting aside, in whole or in
part" of an Act of Congress on the ground of its unconstitutionality, a court of three judges was convened to hear
the cause pursuant to § 3 of the Act of August 24, 1937, 50
Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C. § 380 (a).'
'The District Court of three judges was rightly convened, although
the suit was brought against private parties not public officers: Unlike § 266 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.'§ 380, the Act of August
24, 1937 does not restrict its requirement for the assembly of a dis-

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Appellee Breeze answered. Upon appropriate proceedings had under 50 Stat. 751, 28 U. S. C. § 401, the United
States was permitted to intervene as a party. Thereupon
the District Court granted the Government's motion to
dismiss the suit for want of equity jurisdiction and of a
justiciable case or controversy. 55 F. Supp. 501. The
case comes here on appeal under § 3 of the Act of August
24, 1937, c. 754, 50 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C. § 380 (a), authorizing direct appeals to this Court in a case where a district
court of three judges convened pursuant to the section has
trict court of three judges to suits against public officers. See Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386.
Section 3 of the Act of 1937 directs that a qourt of three judges is to
be convened whenever an interlocutory or permanent injunction is
sought "suspending or restraining the enforcement, operation, or
execution of, or setting aside, in whole or in part, any Act of Congress" upon the ground that it is repugnant to the Constitution. This
language appears to have been taken from the Urgent Deficiencies
Act of 1913, 28 U. S. C. § 47. Its choice of language, differing from
that of § 266 of the Judicial Code, must be taken to be deliberate.
See Jameson & Co. v. Morgenthau, 307 U. S. 171, 173.
Here the injunction sought would restrain appellee from payment
of the royalties into the Treasury as required by the Act of Congress
and would thus restrain the "operation" or "execution" of the statute.
Like interpretation has been given to the like language of the Urgent
Deficiencies Act of 1913. See Lambert Run Coal Co. v. B. & 0. R.
Co., 258 U. S. 377; Venner v. Michigan Central R. Co., 271 U. S. 127.
Garment Workers' Union v. Donnelly Co., 304 U. S. 243, is to be
distinguished from the present case. There an injunction was sought
against a labor union for violation of the anti-trust laws, the plaintiff appellee contending that the Norris-LaGuardia Act, 47 Stat. 70,
29 U. S. C. § 101, was inapplicable or, if applicable, unconstitutional.
This Court held that a district court of three judges was unauthorized
by § 3 of the 1937 Act, since the contention with respect to the NorrisLaGuardia Act was not an application for an injunction within the
meaning of § 3, but merely an anticipation of a defense going to the
jurisdiction of the court. Even though the Norris-LaGuardia Act
were applicable, it could not, if unconstitutional, operate as a defense, and no case was made for an injunction.

COFFMAN v. BREEZE CORPORATIONS. 319
316

Opinion of the Court.

entered "judgment granting or denying, after notice and
hearing, an interlocutory or permanent injunction in such
case.)
The facts appear from the pleadings and by stipulation,
and are admitted for the purposes of the motion. Appellant, the owner of a United States patent covering an improvement upon a device for use in starting a combustion
motor, and shells for use with the device, entered into an
agreement licensing Federal to manufacture and sell the
patented device at a royalty of 6% of the licensee's selling
price of the device and its parts. At some time before
July 1937, appellee Breeze acquired all of Federal's outstanding shares of capital stock and has since controlled
its business and policies. In 1937 it entered into a contract, since renewed and continued with Federal, whereby
the latter engaged Breeze as its exclusive "sales-agent and
distributor" to manufacture and sell the patented device.
Breeze began the manufacture and sale of the patented
device, and from the allegations of the bill of complaint
it appears, inferentially at least, that it has been engaged
to some extent, not disclosed, in supplying the War and
Navy Departments with the patented device under government contracts.
The Royalty Adjustment Act provides that whenever a
patented device is "manufactured, used, [or] sold ...for

the United States" under a license stipulating for payment
of royalties "believed to be unreasonable or excessive" by
the head of the government agency concerned, he "shall
give written notice of such fact to the licensor and to the
licensee." It provides that within a reasonable time thereafter the head of the agency "shall by order fix and specify
such rates or amounts of royalties, if any, as he shall determine are fair and just, taking into account the conditions of wartime production." The Act directs the licensee, after the effective date of the notice, not to "pay to

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

the licensor, nor charge directly or indirectly to the United
States a royalty, if any, in excess of that specified in said
order on account of such manufacture, use, sale or other
disposition."
The Act deprives the licensor of "any remedy . . .
against the licensee for the payment of any additional
royalty remaining unpaid." It provides that his "sole and
exclusive remedy, except as to the recovery of royalties
fixed in said order" is a suit against the United States "to
recover such sum, if any, as, when added to the royalties
fixed and specified in such order, shall constitute fair and
just compensation to the licensor for the manufacture,
use, sale, or other disposition of the licensed invention for
the United States, taking into account the conditions of
wartime production." By § 7 the Act is made applicable
"to all royalties directly or indirectly charged or chargeable to the United States" which "have not been paid to
the licensor prior to the effective date of. the notice," as
well as to royalties accruing upon all articles delivered
after the effective date. By § 4 any reduction in royalties
authorized by the Act is to "inure to the benefit of the Government by way of a corresponding reduction in the contract price to be paid . . . or by way of refund if already
paid to the licensee."
Pursuant to § 1 of the Act the Navy Department on February 24, 1943, gave notice to appellant, appellee Breeze
and Federal that the royalties provided for by the license
contract "now being paid directly or indirectly" under
contracts in which Federal or Breeze "is either a prime contractor or a subcontractor are believed to be unreasonable
or excessive." The notice directed that, until a royalty
adjustment order should be issued under the Act, "no
royalties should be paid on account of the manufacture,
use, [or] sale . . . for the United States" of the patented
device. A similar notice was given by the War Depart-

COFFMAN v. BREEZE CORPORATIONS. 321
316

Opinion of the Court.

ment to the same parties on March 3, 1943. In December,
1943, the War and Navy Departments issued royalty adjustment orders under § 1 of the Act, purporting to reduce to specified amounts, declared to be "fair and just,"
the royalties accruing on the manufacture and sale of the
patented device for the War and Navy Departments, with
maximum royalties of $50,000 per year commencing January 1, 1943. The orders further directed Federal and
Breeze to pay to the Treasurer of the United States "the
balance in excess" of the royalty payments authorized by
the orders "which were due to Licensor and were unpaid
on the effective date" of the notice, or which might thereafter become due to the licensor.
According to the bill of complaint there are large
amounts due and owing to appellant as royalties under
its license contract with Federal and the contract between
Federal and Breeze. It also appears that appellant has
brought a separate suit in the United States District Court
for New Jersey against Breeze and Federal for an accounting for the royalties said to be due to appellant, in which
Breeze alone was served by process and has appeared and
answered. The cause is at issue, and the court has ruled
that appellant recover all royalties which have accrued or
may accrue to the date of trial.
The answer of appellee Breeze in the present suit denies
that it owes any royalties to appellant. It alleges that
whether the Royalty Adjustment Act is valid or invalid
is a matter which is immaterial to appellee for the reason
that it owes appellant no money as royalties or otherwise.
In the present suit appellant asks no judgment for the
recovery of the royalties alleged to be due from Federal
and appellee Breeze. It seeks only an adjudication that
the Royalty Adjustment Act and the orders purporting to
be made in conformity to it are unconstitutional as applied
to appellant, and asks an injunction restraining Breeze and

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Federal from complying with the Act and the orders by
paying any part of the royalties into the Treasury or to any
person other than appellant.
We agree with the conclusion of the District Court below that appellant's bill of complaint states no cause of
action in equity and presents no case or controversy within
the judicial power of the United States as defined by § 2
of Article III of the Constitution.
The only rights asserted as the basis for the relief sought
by appellant are derived from the license agreements.
Those agreements, so far as now appears and as we assume
for present purposes, are contractual obligations to pay
the stipulated royalties. As they accrue, the royalties
become simple debts recoverable in an action at law, or
possibly, where the accounts are complicated, in a proceeding for an accounting such as appellant has already
begun in its separate suit pending in the District Court of
New Jersey. Kirby v. Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co., 120 U. S.
130; UnitedStates v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427, 465.
Appellant does not in the present suit bring to our attention any facts showing or tending to show that a suit
to recover a money judgment for the royalties would not
afford complete and adequate relief without resort to an
equitable remedy. In such a suit if appellee Breeze is
obligated by the contracts in question to pay the royalties
to appellant, it can discharge that obligation only by payment of the amount due, or by setting up the Royalty Adjustment Act as a defense. Compliance with the duty
under the Act to pay into the Treasury the royalties withheld from appellant would operate by the terms of the
Act as a discharge of the obligation to pay appellant. If
that defense were offered, the constitutional validity of
these provisions of the Act would be a justiciable issue in
the case, since upon its adjudication would depend appellant's right of recovery.

COFFMAN v. BREEZE CORPORATIONS. 323
316

Opinion of the Court.

But whether the provisions of the Act be valid or invalid
appellant shows no ground for equitable relief. If valid
they would be a defense, and appellant would be entitled
to no relief other than that afforded by the suit against the
Government authorized by § 2 of the Act. If invalid,
appellant's right to recover remains unimpaired. The
sufficiency of the defense may be as readily tested in a suit
at law to recover the royalties as by the present suit in
equity to enjoin payment of the royalties into the Treasury. In either case appellant would receive all the relief
to which it shows itself entitled.
The obligation to pay royalties, as we have said, appears
to be no more than a debt. There is no contention that it
is a fiduciary obligation to turn an earmarked fund over
to appellant. The complaint does not indicate that if
appellee is not enjoined it will pay the royalties into the
Treasury, or, if it does, that appellee will be unable to
respond to a judgment in appellant's favor. Appellant
thus fails to assert any right of recovery at law in the
present suit or to show that its remedy available at law is
so inadequate as to entitle it to ask ansequitable remedy.
Judicial Code, § 267 (28 U. S. C. § 384); Boise Artesian
Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276, 283; Pusey & Jones
Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491, 497; Hurley v. Kincaid, 285
U. S. 95, 105; Schoenthal v. Irving Trust Co., 287 U. S.
92, 94.
So far as the present suit seeks a declaratory judgment
or an injunction restraining payment of the royalties into
the Treasury, it raises no justiciable issue. Appellant
asserts in the present suit no right to recover the royalties.
It asks only a determination that the Royalty Adjustment
Act is unconstitutional and, if so found, that compliance
with the Act be enjoined, an issue which appellee by its
answer declines to contest. If contested the validity of
the Act would be an issue which, so far as it could ever

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

1 323 U. S.

become material, would properly arise only in a suit to
recover the royalties, where it could be appropriately
decided.
In the circumstances disclosed by the record and for
purposes of the present suit, the constitutionality of the
Act is without legal significance and can involve no justiciable question unless and until appellant seeks recovery
of the royalties, and then only if appellee relies on the Act
as a defense. The prayer of the bill of complaint that
the Act be declared unconstitutional is thus but a request
for an advisory opinion as to the validity of a defense to
a suit for recovery of the royalties. Appellee could have
made such a defense but does not appear to have done so
in the pending accounting suit and does not assert its validity here. The bill of complaint thus fails to disclose
any ground for the determination of any question of law
or fact which could be the basis of a judgment adjudicating
the rights of the parties.
The declaratory judgment procedure is available in the
federal courts only in cases involving an actual case or
controversy, Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, 288
U. S. 249, 258-264; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth, 300
U. S. 227, 239-240, where the issue is actual and adversary,
Chicago & Grand Trunk R. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339;
South Spring Gold Co. v. Amador Gold Co., 145 U. S. 300,
301, and it may not be made the medium for securing an
advisory opinion in a controversy which has not arisen.
New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328; United States v.
West Virginia, 295 U. S. 463; Ashwander v. Tennessee
Valley Authority,'297 U. S. 288, 324; Anniston Manufacturing Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 337, 355; Electric Bond &
Share Co. v. S. E. C., 303 U. S. 419, 443.
In any case, the Court will not pass upon the constitutionality of legislation in a suit which is not adversary,
Chicago & Grand Trunk R. Co. v. Wellman, supra;Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, 134-35; Atherton Mills v.

COFFMAN v. FED. LABORATORIES.
316

325

Opinion of the Court.

Johnston, 259 U. S. 13, 15, or upon the complaint of one
who fails to show that he is injured by its operation,
Tyler v. The Judges, 179 U. S. 405; Hendrick v. Maryland,
235 U. S. 610, 621, or until it is necessary to do so to preserve the rights of the parties. Liverpool, N. Y. & P. S. S.
Co. v. Commissioners, 113 U. S. 33, 39; Burton v. United
States, 196 U. S. 283, 295; Abrams v. Van Schaick, 293
U. S. 188; Wilshire Oil Co. v. United States, 295 U. S. 100.
Affirmed.
COFFMAN v. FEDERAL LABORATORIES, INC. Err AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 485. Argued December 7, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.
Decided upon the authority of Coffman v. Breeze Corporations,Inc.,
ante, p. 316.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from an order of a District Court of three judges,
convened pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 380 (a), denying an
injunction and striking portions of the bill of complaint.
The United States had been allowed to intervene.

Messrs. James D. Carpenter,Jr. and John G. Buchanan,
with whom Mr. William H. Eckert was on the brief, for
appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
GeneralFahy and Messrs. Paul A. Freund and Jerome H.
Simonds were on the brief, for the United States, appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a companion case to Coffman v. Breeze Corporations, ante, p. 316.

