360

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 Ui. S.

ject to the tax lien. If such property had been removed,
distraint could then have been levied on other undetermined property of the tenant. At least until actual distraint, therefore, there was no certainty as to the property
subject to the lien and no transfer of title or possession
relative to any property. Such a lien cannot be said to
be so explicit and perfected on the date of the voluntary
assignment as to fall within the claimed exception to the
priority of the United States.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON is of opinion that the judgment
should be affirmed for the reasons stated by the Supreme
Couxt of Appeals of Virginia.

UNITED STATES v. ROSENWASSER, DOING BUSINESS
AS PERFECT GARMENT CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 106. Argued December 12, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 is applicable to employees
compensated on a piece rate basis, and employers of such employees
are subject to the criminal provisions of the Act. P. 361.
Reversed.

APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment sustaining a demurrer as to certain counts of an information charging violations of the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Messrs. Douglas B. Maggs, Joseph I. Nachman, and Miss
Bessie Margolin were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Victor Behrstock submitted for appellee.

UNITED STATES v ROSENWASSER.
360

361

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a direct appeal from a judgment of the District
Court for the Southern District of California. That court
sustained appellee's demurrer to an information charging
violations of the minimum wage, overtime and recordkeeping provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938, 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq. This was
done on the ground that the Act is inapplicable where employees are compensated at piece rates, as is the case in
appellee's garment business. We are thus met with the
clear issue of whether the Act covers piece rate employees
so as to subject their employers to its criminal provisions.
Neither the policy of the Act nor the legislative history
gives any real basis for excluding piece workers from the
benefits of the Statute. This legislation was designed to
raise substandard wages and to give additional compensation for overtime work as to those employees within its
ambit, thereby helping to protect this nation "from the
evils and dangers resulting from wages too low to buy
the bare necessities of life and from long hours of work
injurious to health." Sen. Rep. No. 884 (75th Cong., 1st
Sess.) p. 4; United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100. No
reason is apparent why piece workers who are underpaid '
or who work long hours do not fall within the spirit or intent of this statute, absent an explicit exception as to
them. Piece rate and incentive systems were widely prevalent in the United States at the time of the passage of
1 The Government points out that United States Department of
Labor statistics show that 25.5% to 48.5% of the unskilled workers
paid under the piece rate or incentive systems in six industries (boot
and shoe, knitted outerwear, knitted underwear, seamless hosiery, full
fashioned hosiery and work and knit gloves) received less than 30 cents
an hour at approximately the time of the passage of the Act.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

this Act 2 and we cannot assume that Congress meant

to discriminate against the many workers compensated
under such systems. Certainly the evils which the Act
sought to eliminate permit of no distinction or discrimination based upon the method of employee compensation
and none is evident from the legislative history.
The plain words of the statute give an even more unmistakable answer to the problem. Section 6 (a) of the Act
provides that "every employer" shall pay to "each of his
employees who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce" not less than specified minimum "rates," which at present are "not less than 30 cents
an hour." Section 7 (a) provides that "no employer"
shall employ "any of his employees" for longer than
specified hours in any week without paying overtime compensation "at a rate not less than one and one-half times
the regular rate at which he is employed." The term
"employee" is defined in § 3 (e) to include "any individual
employed by an employer," with certain exceptions not
here pertinent being specified in § 13, and the term "employ" is defined in § 3 (g) to include "to suffer or permit
to work."
A broader or more comprehensive coverage of employees
within the stated categories would be difficult to frame.
2 The Government further pbints out that large percentages of
workers are paid on a straight piece basis in the following industries:
boot and shoe, boot and shoe cut stock and findings, hosiery, knit
goods, hat industries, gloves, cigar, furniture, leather and meat packing. It also states that studies made in 1935, covering a cross-section
of industry including 631 manufacturing establishments employing
700,699 wage earners, indicated that 22.1% were employed at
straight piece rates and an additional 21.6% on some premium or
bonus system. Another study made in 1939 revealed that 61.6% of
the workers in 300 companies studied were paid according to an incentive system. National Industrial Conference Board, Studies in
Personnel Policy, No. 19, Some Problems in Wage Incentive Administration, p. 11, Table 4.

UNITED STATES v. ROSENWASSER.
360

363

Opinion of the Court.

The use of the words "each" and "any" to modify "em-

ployee," which in turn is defined to include "any" employed individual, leaves no doubt as to the Congressional
intention to include all employees within the scope of the
Act unless specifically excluded. And "each" and "any"
employee obviously and necessarily includes one compensated by a unit of time, by the piece or by any other
measurement.4 A worker is as much an employee when
paid by the piece as he is when paid by the hour. The
time or mode of compensation, in other words, does not
control the determination of whether one is an employee
within the meaning of the Act and no court is justified in
reading in an exception based upon such a factor. When
combined with the criminal provisions of §§ 15 and 16, the
unrestricted sweep of the term "employee" serves to inform employers with definiteness and certainty that they
are criminally liable for willful violations of the Act in relation to their piece rate employees as well as to their employees compensated by other methods. See United States

v.Darby, supra, 125, 126.
The fact that § 6 (a) speaks of a minimum rate of pay
"an hour," while § 7 (a) refers to a "regular rate" which we
have defined to mean "the hourly rate actually paid for the

normal, non-overtime workweek," Walling v. Helmerich
3 Sen. Rep. No. 884 (75th Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 6, states that the term
"'employee' is defined to include all employees. . . ." (Italics added.)
Senator Black said on the floor of the Senate that the term "employee"
had been given "the broadest definition that has ever been included in
any one act." 81 Cong. Rec. 7657.
4 The Act of June 26, 1940, c. 432, § 3, 54 Stat. 615, added § 6 (a)
(5) to the Fair Labor Standards Act. This new section makes provision for establishing minimum piece rates by regulation or order for
homework in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. This is evidence of a
Congressional intent to include workers of this type within the Act
and a recognition that without this special provision homeworkers in
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands paid by the piece would be subject
to the ordinary statutory provisions relating to minimum wages.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

& Payne,323 U3. S. 37, 40, does not preclude application of
the Act to piece workers. Congress necessarily had to
create practical and simple measuring rods to test compliance with the requirements as to minimum wages and
overtime compensation. It did so by setting the standards
in terms of hours and hourly rates. But other measures of
work and compensation are not thereby voided or placed
outside the reach of the Act. Such other modes merely
must be translated or reduced by computation to an
hourly basis for the sole purpose of determining whether
the statutory requirements have been fulfilled. Overnight
Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572, 579; Walling v.
Helmerich & Payne, supra, 40. These hourly standards
are not so phrased as reasonably to mislead employers into
believing that the Act is limited to employees working on
an hourly wage scale. Nor can a court rightly use these
standards as a basis for cutting off the benefits of the Act
from employees paid by other units of time or by the piece.
If that were permissible, ready means for wholesale
evasion of the Act's requirements would be provided.
It follows that the court below erred in sustaining appellee's demurrer to the information. Its judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

dissents.

