WILLIAMS v. KAISER.

471

Syllabus.

WILLIAMS v. KAISER, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 102. Argued December 12, 1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.
In a petition to the Supreme Court of Missouri for a writ of habeas
corpus, the petitioner, confined in a state penitentiary under a 15year sentence for robbery by means of a deadly weapon (a capital
offense in Missouri), alleged that prior to his conviction he requested
the aid of counsel but that none was appointed; that he did not
waive his constitutional right to the aid of counsel; that he was
incapable of making his own defense adequately and as a consequence was compelled to plead guilty. The court allowed the
petitioner to proceed in forma pauperis but denied the petition for
failure to state a cause of action. Held:
1. The petitioner's right to counsel was a right protected by the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. P. 473.
2. Whether the federal right of the petitioner was infringed is
for this Court to determine. P. 473.
3. The petition having been denied without requiring the State
to answer and without giving the petitioner an opportunity to
prove his allegations, and the allegations of the petition being not
inconsistent with the recitals of the accompanying certified copy
of the sentence and judgment, this Court treats the allegations of
the petition as true. P. 474.
4. The petition sufficiently alleged a deprivation of due process
of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45. P. 474.
5. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, it will be presumed
that when a defendant requests counsel he is without counsel and
without funds to retain counsel. P. 474.
6. Although a judgment based on a plea of guilty, like other
judgments, may not be set aside lightly on collateral attack, a
judgment based on a plea of guilty to a capital offense by a defendant who requested but was not granted counsel, and who was
incapable adequately of making his own defense, stands on a
different footing. P. 474.
7. The nature of the offense charged against the petitioner emphasized the need of counsel. P. 474.
8. The right of the petitioner to challenge the validity of the
judgment of conviction on the constitutional ground of denial of

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

his right to counsel can not be defeated by his failure to take an
appeal from that judgment.

P. 477.

9. Since the state grounds here advanced to sustain the denial
of the petition are insubstantial, the denial is assumed to have been
on the ground that the petition stated no cause of action based on
the federal right. P. 478.
Reversed.

322 U. S. 725, to review an order denying
a petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. John Raeburn Green, with whom Mr. Keith L.
Seegmiller was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert J. Flanagan,Assistant Attorney General of
Missouri, with whom Mr. Roy McKittrick, Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner pleaded guilty to an indictment charging him
with robbery by means of a deadly weapon. The Circuit
Court of Iron County, Missouri, found him guilty and
sentenced him to the state penitentiary, where he is now
confined, for a term of fifteen years on May 28, 1940. In
April, 1944, he filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus
in the Supreme Court of Missouri. After reciting the
foregoing facts concerning his conviction he further
alleges in his petition:
"Prior to his conviction and sentence, as aforesaid, the
petitioner requested the aid of counsel. At the time of
his conviction and sentence, as aforesaid, the petitioner
was without the aid of counsel, the Court did not make an
appointment of counsel, nor did petitioner waive his constitutional right to the aid of counsel, and he was incapable adequately of making his own defense, in consequence
of which he was compelled to plead guilty."
And he contends that he was deprived of counsel contrary
to the requirements of the due process clause of the Four-

WILLIAMS v. KAISER.
471

Opinion of the Court.

teenth Amendment. The Supreme Court of Missouri allowed petitioner to proceed in forma pauperisbut denied
the petition for the reason that it "fails to state a cause
of action." The case is here on a petition for a writ of
certiorari which we granted because of the substantial
nature of the constitutional question which is raised.
Missouri has a statute which requires a court on request to assign counsel to a person unable to employ one
and who is charged with a felony. Rev. Stat. 1939, § 4003.
The Missouri Supreme Court did not indicate the reasons
for its denial of the petition beyond the statement that
the petition failed to state a cause of action. Whatever
the grounds of that decision it is binding on us insofar as
state law is concerned. Smith v. O'Grady, 312 U. S. 329.
But the right to counsel in cases of this type is a right protected by the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal Constitution. The question whether that federal right has
been infringed is not foreclosed here, even though the
action of the state court was on the ground that its statute
requiring the appointment of counsel was not violated.
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45, 59-60. And Missouri
has not suggested in the argument before this Court that
it provides a remedy other than habeas corpus for release
from a confinement under a judgment of conviction obtained as a result of an unconstitutional procedure.
Neither in the briefs nor in oral argument did Missouri suggest that its habeas corpus procedure (see Rev.
Stat. 1939, §§ 1590, 1621, 1623) is not available in this
situation.'
The petition for habeas corpus was denied without requiring the State to answer or without giving petitioner
an opportunity to prove his allegations. And the allegaIIt is available to challenge the constitutionality of the statute on
which the judgment of conviction rests. Ex parte Smith, 135 Mo.
223, 36 S. W. 628; Ex parte Taft v. Shaw, 284 Mo. 531, 538-539,
225 S. W. 457; Ex parte McKean, 338 Mo. 597, 600, 92 S. W. 2d 141.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

tions contained in the petition are not inconsistent with
the recitals of the certified copy of the sentence and judgment which accompanied the petition and under which
petitioner is confined. Hence we must assume that the
allegations of the petition are true. Smith v. O'Grady,
supra. Read in that light we think the petition makes a
prima facie showing of denial of the constitutional right.
The Missouri Supreme Court has ruled that when a defendant requests counsel it will be "presumed," in absence
of evidence to the contrary (State v. Steelman, 318 Mo.
628, 631, 300 S. W. 743), that he was "without counsel
and that he lacked funds to employ them." State v. Williams, 320 Mo. 296, 306, 6 S. W. 2d 915. We indulge the
same presumption. Certainly it may be reasonably inferred from that request and from the further allegation
that as a result of the court's failure to appoint counsel
petitioner was "compelled to plead guilty," that he was
unable to employ counsel to present his defense because
he was without funds. Like other judgments, a judgment based on a plea of guilty is not of course to be lightly
impeached in collateral proceedings. See Johnson v.
Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 468-469. But a plea of guilty to a
capital offense made by one who asked for counsel but
could not obtain one and who was "incapable adequately
of making his own defense" stands on a different footing.
Robbery in the first degree (Rev. Stat. 1939, § 4450) by
means of a deadly weapon is a capital offense in Missouri.
Rev. Stat. 1939, § 4453. The law of Missouri has important distinctions between robbery in the first degree,
robbery in the second degree, grand larceny, and petit
larceny.' These involve technical requirements of the
indictment or information, the kind of evidence required
2

Thus one indicted for robbery in the first degree cannot be convicted of robbery in the second degree but may be convicted of larceny. State v. Jenkins, 36 Mo. 372; State v. Davidson, 38 Mo. 374;
State v. Brannon, 55 Mo. 63.

WILLIAMS v. KAISER.
471

Opinion of the Court.

for conviction, ' the instructions necessary to define the
several elements of the crime,4 and the various defenses
which are available. These are a closed book to the average layman. These considerations underscore what was
said in Powell v. Alabama, supra, p. 69: "Even the intelligent and educated layman has small and sometimes no
skill in the science of law. If charged with ctime, he is
incapable, generally, of determining for himself whether
the indictment is good or bad. He is unfamiliar with the
rules of evidence. Left without the aid of counsel he
may be put on trial without a proper charge, and convicted
upon incompetent evidence, or evidence irrelevant to the
issue or otherwise inadmissible. He lacks both the skill
and knowledge adequately to prepare his defense, even
though he have a perfect one. He requires the guiding
hand of counsel at every step in the proceedings against
him. Without it, though he be not guilty, he faces the
danger of conviction because he does not know how to
establish his innocence. If that be true of men of intelligence, how much more true is it of the ignorant and illiterate, or those of feeble intellect." Those observations
are as pertinent in connection with the accused's plea as
they are in the conduct of a trial. The decision to plead
guilty is a decision to allow a judgment of conviction to be
entered without a hearing-a decision which is irrevocable
and which forecloses any possibility of establishing innocence. If we assume that petitioner committed a crime,
we cannot know the degree of prejudice which the denial
of counsel caused. See Glasser v. United States, 315
U. S. 60, 75-76. Only counsel could discern from the facts
whether a plea of not guilty to the offense charged or a
3 See State v. White, 326 Mo. 1000, 34 S. W. 2d 79.
4 See State v. Brown, 104 Mo. 365, 16 S. W. 406; State v. Woodward,
131 Mo. 369, 33 S. W. 14; State v. McLain, 159 Mo. 340, 60 S. W.
736.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

plea of guilty to a lesser offense would be appropriate.'
A layman is usually no match for the skilled prosecutor
whom he confronts in the court room. He needs the aid
of counsel lest he be the victim of overzealous prosecutors, of the law's complexity, or of his own ignorance or
bewilderment.
These are reasons why the right to counsel is "fundamental." Powell v. Alabama, supra; p. 70; Grosjean v.
American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 243-244; Avery v.
Alabama, 308 U. S. 444, 447. They indicate the protection which the individual needs when charged with crime.
Prompt and expeditious detection and punishment of
crime are necessary for the protection of society. But
that may not be done at the expense of the civil rights of
the citizen. Law enforcement need not be inefficient when
accommodated to the constitutional guarantees of the
individual.
Powell v. Alabama, supra, p. 71, held that at least in
capital offenses "where the defendant is unable to employ counsel, and is, incapable adequately of making his
own defense because of ignorance, feeble mindedness, illiteracy, or the like, it is the duty of the court, whether
requested or not, to assign counsel for him as a necessary
requisite of due process of law." It follows from our construction of this petition that if the allegations are taken
as true, petitioner was denied due process of law. It may
well be that these allegations will turn out to be specious
and unfounded. But they are sufficient under the rule
1 "Robbery in the first degree without the use of a dangerous and
deadly weapon is included in the charge of robbery by means of such
weapon. Larceny is also so included, and where the charge is robbery and there is evidence of a larcenous taking of property but the
element of force .such as to constitute the offense of robbery is wanting there should be an instruction submitting larceny." State v.
Craft, 338 Mo. 831,843, 92 S. W. 2d 626. And see State v. Weinhardt,
253 Mo. 629, 161 S. W. 1151.

WILLIAMS v. KAISER.
471

Opinion of the Court.

of Powell v. Alabama to establish a deprivation of due
process of law if their verity is determined. See Cochran
v. Kansas, 316 U. S. 255. Cf. Walker v. Johnston, 312
U. S. 275.
As we have said, Missouri does not claim that habeas
corpus is not available in this type of case or that under
Missouri law there is some procedure other than habeas
corpus available to petitioner in which he may challenge
the judgment of conviction on constitutional grounds.
Missouri, however, does contend that the denial of counsel
could have been challenged by petitioner by an appeal,
that no appeal was taken, and that no extraordinary circumstances are shown which excuse that failure. Heretofore we have not considered a failure to appeal an adequate defense to habeas corpus in this type of case. Smith
v. O'Grady, supra. Under these circumstances the failure
to appeal only emphasizes the need of counsel. If an appeal were made such a requirement, the denial of counsel
would in and of itself defeat the very right which the
Constitution sought to protect.
It is suggested, moreover, that for all we know the
denial of the petition by the Supreme Court of Missouri
rested on adequate state grounds. It is a well established
principle of this Court that before we will review a decision of a state court it must affirmatively appear from
the record that the federal question was presented to
the highest court of the State having jurisdiction and that
its decision of the federal question was necessary to its
determination of the cause. Honeyman v. Hanan, 3Q)0
U. S. 14,18; Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S. 52. And where
the decision of the state court might have been either on
a state ground or on a federal ground and the state ground
is sufficient to sustain the judgment, the Court will not
undertake to review it. Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257,
263; Wood Mowing & Reaping Machine Co. v. Skinner,
139 U. S. 293, 297; Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

154-155; Lynch v. New York, supra. We adhere to those
decisions. But it is likewise well settled that if the independent ground was not a substantial or sufficient one,
"it will be presumed that the State court based its judgment on the law raising the Federal question, and this
court will then take jurisdiction." Klinger v. Missouri,
supra, p. 263; Johizson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, 307; Lawrence v. State Tax Commission, 286 U. S. 276, 282-283.
Thus in Maguire v. Tyler, 8 Wall. 650, and in Neilson v.
Lagow, 12 How. 98, 110, it was contended that the judgments rested on adequate state grounds. In neither was
there an opinion of the state court. The Court examined
the record, found the state grounds not substantial or
sufficient, and reversed the judgments on the federal question.6 We think the principle of those cases is applicable
here. The petition establishes on its face the deprivation of a federal right. The denial of the petition on the
grounds that it fails to state a cause of action strongly
suggests that it was denied because there was no cause of
action based on the federal right. And when we search
for an independent state ground to support the denial,
we find none. The Attorney General of Missouri only
goes so far as to say that the petition did not state facts
sufficient to justify the appointment of counsel under
the Missouri statute. But as we have seen, the allegations
in the petition seem sufficient under the rule laid down
by the Supreme Court of Missouri in State v. Williams,
supra. And Missouri suggests no other state ground which
6In

the following cases the Court without benefit of an opinion of

the state court examined the pleadings, found substantial state grounds

on which the judgment might have rested, and dismissed the writ.
Johnson v. Risk, supra;Allen v. Arguimbau, supra; Bachtel v. Wilson,
204 U. S. 36; Adams v. Russell, 229 U. S. 353; Cuyahoga River Power
Co. v. Northern Realty Co., 244 U. S. 300, 303; Lynch v. New York,

supra; Woolsey v. Best, 299 U. S. 1; McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil Corp., 309
U. S. 2.

WILLIAMS v. KAISER.
471

FRANKFUiR,

479

J., dissenting.

might be the basis of the decision. 7 That is to say, the
only state grounds which have been advanced in support
of the decision below appear to be insubstantial. We can
only assume therefore that the denial by the Supreme
Court of Missouri was for the reason that the petition
stated no cause of action based on the federal right. That
seems to us to be the fair intendment of the language
which it used if we put to one side, as we must, the insubstantial state grounds which have been advanced in explanation of the denial. If perchance the Supreme Court
of Missouri meant that some reason of state law precludes
a decision of the federal question, that question is not
foreclosed by this decision. Cf. State Tax Commission v.
Van Cott, 306 U. S. 511; Minnesotav. National Tea Co.,
309 U. S. 551. But on the present state of the record
before us, we do not see what more petitioner need do
to establish the federal right on which his petition is
based.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, dissenting.

At the request of one charged with a felony and unable
to employ counsel, Missouri requires its courts to assign
counsel. In State v. Williams,320 Mo. 296,6 S. W. 2d 915,
a defendant on trial for a capital offense requested the
court to assign counsel, and the court accordingly appointed two lawyers for his defense. After a plea of
guilty and the imposition of a death sentence, an appeal
was taken from a denial of a motion in arrest of judgment
7It is stated that the petition does not allege facts which show that
petitioner was denied a fair trial, that he was ignorant, that he was
innocent, or that the court was prejudiced. But it is not apparent
how the addition of any such allegations to the petition would be
relevant to petitioner's cause of action based on the constitutional
right to counsel. We are not referred to any Missouri law which
would make them relevant.

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

on the ground that the trial court violated the Missouri
statute in that the record did not show that the judge
had ascertained the inability of the accused to employ
counsel before appointing them. The Missouri Supreme
Court held that the absence of such a specific finding did
not constitute a violation of. the Missouri statutes. "The
record shows that it was upon defendant's request that
the court, assigned him counsel. Having requested the
-court to assign counsel, it will then be presumed that
defendant was without counsel and that he lacked funds
to employ them." 320 Mo. at 306. The court thus rejected the frivolous claim that by giving the accused
what he asked for, counsel not of his choice had been forced
on him. That decision can hardly serve as a springboard
for concluding in this case that the Supreme Court of
Missouri violated the Constitution of the United States
in finding that the record did not show that the trial court,
in denying the present defendant's request for the assignment of counsel, denied him rights under the law of
Missouri as well as the United States Constitution. To
be sure, the Missouri Supreme Court did not write an
opinion in support of its conclusion that the petitioner's
writ for habeas corpus "fails to state a cause of action."
There is nothing significant about that, and it does not
affect the basis or scope of this Court's review of state
court decisions. During its 1942 judicial year the Supreme
Court of Missouri disposed of 300 cases by opinion and 217
cases without opinion; during its 1942 judicial year this
Court disposed of 218 cases by opinion and 146 cases without opinion (apart from dispositions of petitions for certiorari). If the determination by the Missouri court can
reasonably be justified on failure to comply with a requirement of Missouri law, then it must be so justified.
And the record here plainly allows the inference that the
petitioner did not meet the procedural requirements of
Missouri law for relief by habeas corpus. If a decision

WILLIAMS v. KAISER.
471

FR NKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

of a state court can rest on a state ground, it is our duty
to conclude that it does so rest; it is our duty not to as-

sume that the state court rejected a claim under the

United States Constitution.
From the beginning, suoh has been the principle governing our review of state court decisions.

In cases com-

ing here from the state courts, this Court has no power
to pass on questions of state law; it can review a state
court decision only insofar as that raises a question of
federal law; and it can only then pass on the federal

question if a decision on federal law was necessary for
the judgment rendered by the state court. This historic
distribution of judicial authority as between the state
courts and this Court was confirmed and reinforced during the Reconstruction period when the influences toward
expansion of federal jurisdiction were at floodtide. Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590.'
1 "The

rules which govern the action of this court in cases of this
sort are well settled. Where it appears by the record that the judgment of the State court might have been based either upon a law
which would raise a question of repugnancy to the Constitution, laws,
or treaties of the United States, or upon some other independent
ground; and it appears that the court did, in fact, base its judgment
on such independent ground, and not on the law raising the Federal
question, this court will not take jurisdiction of the case, even though
it might think the position of the State court an unsound one. But
where it does not appear on which of the two grounds the judgment
was based, then, if the independent ground on which it might have
been based was a good and valid one, sufficient of itself to sustain
the judgment this court will not assume jurisdiction of the case;
but if such independent ground was not a good and valid one, it will
be presumed that the State court based its judgment on the law
raising the Federal question, and this court will then take jurisdiction." Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257, 263.
These settled principles were very recently again summarized in a
per curiam opinion in Southwestern Bell Tel. Co. v. Oklahoma4 303
U. S. 206, 212-213:
'We have repeatedly held that it is essential to the jurisdiction
of this Court in reviewing a decision of a court of a State that it must

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

These sound like dry rules of technical jurisdiction. In
fact they express an important phase of due regard for
our federal constitutional system. State courts are no
less under duty to observe the United States Constitution
than is this Court. To be sure, authority is vested in this
Court to see to it that that duty is observed. But to assume disobedience instead of obedience to the Law of the
Land ,by the highest courts of the States is to engender
friction between the federal and state judicial systems, to
weaken the authority of the state courts and the administration of state laws by encouraging unmeritorious resorts to this Court, and wastefully to swell the dockets
of this Court.
This case gives point to the importance of adhering to
the principles that govern our review of state decisions.
Nothing is a more fundamental characteristic of a civilized society than those securities which safeguard a fair
trial for one accused of crime. Those assurances were
written into the Federal Constitution even against State
action by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. A central safeguard is the opportunity for
an accused to have adequate facilities for presenting his
defense. But a full half century before the United States
Constitution made this requirement of the States, Missouri, while yet a Territory, provided for the assistance
appear affirmatively from the record, not only that a federal question
was presented for decision to the highest court of the State having
jurisdiction but that its decision of the federal question was necessary to the determination of the cause; that the federal question was
actually decided or that the judgment as rendered could not have
been given without deciding it. De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S.
216, 234; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, 306, 307; Wood Mowing
& Reaping Machine Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S. 293, 295, 297; Whitney
v. California,274 U. S. 357, 360, 361; Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S.
52, 54."

WILLIAMS v. KAISER.
471

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

of counsel for accused in need. Digest of the Laws of
Missouri Territory, 1818, Crimes and Misdemeanors § 35.
There is nothing to warrant the assumption that the Supreme Court of Missouri was unmindful of the exactions
of its own historic law or of the extent to which that is
now embedded in the Due Process Clause. On the contrary, every assumption must be indulged that that court
was mindful of the right which may be claimed by an indigent accused to have a lawyer's aid for his defense. But
it may also have been mindful of the requirement of her
law that a trial judge be reasonably convinced that an
accused is in need of counsel.
Of course this Court will not withhold its reviewing
power over a decision of a state court by presuming that
the state court founded its decision on a wholly untenable
basis of local law. See, e. g., Neilson v. Lagow, 12 How.
98, 109-111. But nothing in the record before us precludes the assumption that the Missouri Supreme Court
found a local inadequacy in the petition for a writ of
habeas corpus. If the Missouri Supreme Court had in
fact refused to grant the writ of habeas corpus because it
concluded that there was not a sufficient allegation by
petitioner that he had need for counsel, certainly this
Court would not reject that as an inadequate state ground.
And if that would have furnished an adequate state
ground, we must assume that it did, instead of attributing
to the Supreme Court of Missouri a flagrant violation of
the Constitution. If the Missouri Supreme Court enforces its requirement that an accused make manifest his
need for appointed counsel and if Missouri enforces this
requirement even with procedural strictness against those
convicted of felonies years after their sentence, it is not
for us to be hypercritical in denying to the highest tribunal
of a State what it may conceive to be its duty to see to it

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

that the great writ of habeas corpus is not abused' and
that the administration of criminal justice is not needlessly weakened by astute devices. While the petition in
this case was signed by Williams alone, it bears every evidence of having been drawn by one aware of the relevant
legal issues and skilled in legal drafting.
If, perchance, we were to interpret erroneously the decision of the Supreme Court of Missouri in finding that
the present writ failed to state a cause of action because
it was wanting in requirements of Missouri law, no real
harm will have been done. By proper application to the
state court, the ambiguity of the present record may be
removed by showing, if indeed such be the fact, that the
Missouri Supreme Court necessarily rejected a federal
claim here reviewable. See Whitney v. California,269
U. S.530; 274 U. S.357, 360-362; Lynch v. New York,
293 U. S. 52; Honeyman v. Hanan, 300 U. S. 14. Or,
another petition for a writ of habeas corpus making the
necessary allegations would quickly reveal whether the
Supreme Court of Missouri flagrantly disregarded a law
of Missouri older than the State itself, let alone a right
sanctioned by the Constitution of the United States. Petitioner is now represented by able and devoted counsel
who would quickly enough bring to light any such disregard. Certainly we ought not to attribute illegality to
the Supreme Court of Missouri when the assumption of
2 "Weare

dealing with a writ antecedent to statute, and throwing its
root deep into the genius of our common law.... It is perhaps the
most important writ known to the constitutional law of England,
affording as it does a swift and imperative remedy in all cases of
illegal restraint or confinement. It is of immemorial antiquity, an instance of its use occurring in the thirty-third year of Edward I. It has
through the ages been jealously maintained by Courts of Law as a
check upon the illegal usurpation of power by the Executive at thecost of the liege." Secretary of State For Home Affairs v. O'Brien

[1923] A. C. 603, 609.

TOMKINS v. MISSOURI.
471

485

Syllabus.

obedience to its own traditions lies so readily on the surface of this record.
The petition should be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

joins in this opinion.

TOMKINS v. MISSOURI.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 64. Argued December 12, 1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.
In a petition to the Supreme Court of Missouri for a writ of habeas
corpus, the petitioner, confined in a state penitentiary for life upon
his plea of guilty to a charge of murder in the first degree, alleged that
he was not represented by counsel, that the court did not make an
effective appointment of counsel, that he did not waive his constitutional right to counsel, that he was ignorant of his right to demand counsel, and that he was incapable adequately of making his
own defense. The court allowed the petitioner to proceed in forma
pauperisbut denied the petition for failure to state a cause of action.
Held:
1. The allegations of the petition are here assumed to be true.
Williams v. Kaiser, ante, p. 471. P. 487.
2. A request for counsel by one accused of a capital offdnse, who
is unable to employ counsel and incapable adequately of making his
own defense, is unnecessary; it is the duty of the court in such case
.to appoint counsel. P. 487.
3. That the petition in such a case as this is not drawn with precision and clarity is not fatal, where the substance of the claim is
plain. P. 487.
4. The nature of the offense charged against the petitionerwho could have been found guilty of murder in the first or second
degree or of manslaughter, with varying penalties-emphasized the
need of counsel. P. 488.
5. The petition sufficiently alleged a deprivation of the right to
counsel in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45. P. 489.
Reversed.

