OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
323 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

sional statements I relating to the desirability of eliminating discriminations against manufacturers making
retail sales cannot be taken as evidence of a desire to prevent the natural inequalities that result when a tax is
placed on the wholesale selling price.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

concurs in the result.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 182.

Argued January 11, 1945.-Decided January 29, 1945.

1. Section 15 (4) (b) of the Interstate Commerce Act empowers the
Interstate Commerce Commission to establish a through route
which would require a carrier to short-haul itself where such route
is needed in order to provide "adequate, and more efficient or more
economic, transportation." Held that, in determining whether the
proposed through route is needed in order to provide "adequate,
and more efficient or more economic, transportation," the Commission may consider the interests of the shipper as well as those of
the carrier. P. 592.
2. The order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring the
establishment of through routes was supported by the findings and
the evidence. P. 593.
54 F. Supp. 381, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a district court of three judges

refusing to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, 255 I. C. C. 333.
Mr. Joseph F. Eshelman, with whom Messrs. R. Aubrey
Bogley, Francis R. Cross, Wm. Pepper Constable, John
Dickinson, H. C. Barron, Charles Clark, A. B. Enoch,
P. F. Gault, Thomas P. Healy, H. H. Larimore, A. H.
H. Rep. No. 708 (72d Cong., 1st Sess.), pp. 32-33; 75 Cong.
Rec. 5693, 5694.
4See

PENNSYLVANIA R. CO. v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

Lossow, L. H. Strasser and Carson L. Taylor were on the
brief, for appellants.
Mr. Robert L. Pierce, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Messrs. Walter
J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton and Edward M.
Reidy were on the brief, for the United States and the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and Mr. C. R. Hillyer
for D. A. Stickell & Sons, Inc., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree 1 of a District Court of
three judges dismissing the petition of the appellants,
thirteen trunk line railroads,.for an injunction annulling
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission,2 which
required the railroads to establish and maintain two
through routes.
The Commission's order was made after hearing upon
a complaint of D. A. Stickell & Sons, Inc., a manufacturer
of mixed feeds at Hagerstown, Md. This concern obtains
its inbound raw material of grain'and grain products, etc.,
from manufacturing plants located in so-called central
territory. These are mixed and the mixed aggregate
moves from the plant at Hagerstown to points eastward,
but principally to the so-called Del-Mar-Va Pepinsula,
a portion of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia, which is
served solely by the Pennsylvania Railroad. Hagerstown
lies on the main line of the Western Maryland Railway.
The Pennsylvania serves it by a branch line running from
Harrisburg, Pa., to Winchester, Va., and the Baltimore &
Ohio by a branch line running north from its main line
at Weverton, Maryland. The railroads accord transit
'54 F. Supp. 381.
Stickell & Sons v. Alton R. Co., 255 I. C. C. 333.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

facilities at Hagerstown whereby Stickell may receive the
inbound materials, mix them, and ship the products to destination on a through rate plus a transit charge as if the
movement had been a through one from origin to destination. The handling of freight moving over the Pennsylvania Railroad will illustrate the problem. The so-called
back-haul, or out-of-line haul, required to reach Hagerstown from the Pennsylvania's main line is 74.5 miles in
each direction and the additional charge for it is 4.5 cents
per cwt., or about 17% of the through rate. Interchange
and switching operations to reach the Stickell plant are
performed by the Western Maryland and the Pennsylvania absorbs these charges. The Commission's order
established two new through routes which included the
Western Maryland, the line which serves the Stickell
plant. Both reduced the Pennsylvania's line haul to that
portion of the routes eastward of York, Pa., or Fulton
Junction (Baltimore), Maryland, in respect of shipments
to the Del-Mar-Va Peninsula, thus depriving the Pennsylvania of a long haul from points west of Pittsburgh,
Pa., through Harrisburg, Pa.
The gravamen of Stickell's complaint before the Commission was that the back-hauls involved in existing
routes delayed its shipments and, while the charge for
such back-hauls was reasonable, the addition of this charge
to the through rate cut into its margin of profit, which is
small. These factors, it claimed, deprived it of its rightful
competitive relation to other manufacturers of mixed
feed.
The Commission's authority to grant relief is bottomed
on § 15 (3) and (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act as
amended.' The subsection first mentioned authorizes the
Commission, when it deems it to be "necessary or desirable in the public interest" to establish through routes and
3 49 U. S. C. § 15 (3) (4).

PENNSYLVANIA R. CO. v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

joint rates. The succeeding subsection is a'limitation on
the Commission's power, derived in part from earlier enactments, prohibiting the Commission from requiring a
line-haul carrier to short-haul itself as a participant in a
prescribed through route. The earlier part of the paragraph retains the prohibition against short hauling but
contains exceptions, one of which, designated (b.), is "unless the Commission finds that the through route proposed
to be established is needed in order to provide adequate,
and more efficient or more economic, transportation:
S. ."
The principal controversy in the cause, turns
on the proper interpretation of the quoted exemption from
the general prohibition of through routes which involve
short hauling. There are certain subsidiary issues which
will be noticed.
The opposing views of the, parties may be summarized.
The appellants argue that the phrase "adequate, and more
efficient or more economic, transportation" refers to carrier operations and expense and has no reference to the
broader public interest which embraces service to shippers
and the rates they pay. The appellees urge that the
phrase comprehends the adequacy of service, its cost to
the shipper, and the convenience, efficiency, and cost of
the carriers' operations. The Commission took the latter
view. In its decision it purported to consider all these
elements and, on appraisal of them, concluded the two
routes it prescribed were justified by § 15 (4). The court
below sustained the Commission. We think its judgment
was right.
Without reciting in detail the statutory history, which
is given in full in the opinion below, it will suffice to say
that the Commission originally construed the short-haul
provision of the Interstate Commerce law as protecting
only the haul of the originating carrier. In United States
v. MissouriPacific R. Co., 278 U. S. 269, this construction

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

was overruled. Decision was handed down after the Commission had made an order on an earlier complaint of
Stickell, similar to the order here involved;' but, after
this court's decision, the Commission set aside the order
in conformity to our opinion. Several unsuccessful attempts were thereupon made to induce Congress to repeal
the short-haul prohibition. When the 1940 amendment
to the Interstate Commerce Act was on its passage, the
short-haul prohibition was eliminated by the Senate.
The House retained the provision without change.
In conference § 15 (4) was amended by permitting the
Commission to require a carrier to short-haul itself under
the conditions specified in the language we have quoted.
Thus the two sections--15 (3) and (4)-since 1940 have
provided that the Commission may establish a through
route if found to be "in the public interest" but may not
establish such a route which requires a carrier to shorthaul itself unless it finds that the route will provide adequate, and more efficient or more economic, transportation. The appellants suggest that if the latter phrase be
construed as the Commission has construed it the two
sections taken together will be redundant for subsection
(3) permits the establishment of a through route only if
it is in the public interest, and the short-haul provision
may'be disregarded only if so to do would be in the public interest. But we think this is not a fair construction
of the statute. It is conceivable that the Commission
might refuse to establish many through routes as not required in the public interest where short hauling is not
involved. On the other hand, if the Commission is asked
to abrogate the general rule with regard to the short-haul,
the statute says it must have regard to several matters.
The first of these is adequacy of transportation. The expression would seem to apply only to the interest of the
4 Stickell & Sons v. Western Maryland R. Co., 146 I. C. C. 609.

PENNSYLVANIA R. CO. v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

shipping public. The second and third matters to be
considered are efficient and economic transportation.
These expressions may well embrace both shippers' and
carriers' interests. Congress had a purpose in amending
the provision, and we think the Commission was not in
error in construing the language used as evincing an intent that both interests should be considered and a fair
balance found.
The appellants refer to legislative history, to the policy
declared in the Interstate Commerce legislation, to the
definition of transportation in the statute, and other aids
to construction, in support of their argument. These
were, in our view, adequately discussed by the court below.
We have considered them but they do not persuade us
that the Commission and the District Court were wrong
in their interpretation of § 15 (4).
The appellants contend that even if the Commission
was right in its interpretation of its statutory authority, its
over-all conclusion is not supported by evidence or by the
subsidiary findings. The claim is that the Commission
did not make findings that the expense and inconvenience
to the carriers concerned of rendering services over routes
involving four, five, or six railroads, with the consequent
interchange of traffic, would not be inordinately expensive
and burdensome, and they point to certain evidence
offered before the Commission which they say the Commission ignored. In the court below the same contention
was considered and overruled. True, the Commission's
findings are not sharp and clear on the point, but the
matter was not ignored and the Commission's decision
refers to it. We are unable to say that there was not
sufficient in the record before the Commission, and in its
findings, to justify the conclusion that the Commission,
as it says it did, weighed the evidence and found that the
balance was in favor of the order made.
Judgment affirmed.

