624

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

possession, would be reasonable for application to the
interchange of cars between defendants and complainants
for use by Seatrain."
248 I. C. C. at 119. This being
true we sustain the Commission's order in this respect."4
We find no merit in any of the other contentions raised
against the order of the Commission.
The judgment in No. 47 is reversed, and the judgment
in No. 48 is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS dissents.
OTIS & CO. v. SECURITIES & EXCHANGE
COMMISSION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 81.

Argued November 17, 1944.-Decided January 29, 1945.

1. Whether a provision of a corporate charter granting the preferred
stock a specified preference upon liquidation applies to a liquidation in a simplification pursuant to § 11 (b) (2) and (e) of the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 is a question of federal law. P. 636.
2. A provision of a corporate charter granting the preferred stock a
specified preference upon liquidation, adopted six years prior to the
enactment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935,
held inoperative in a simplification by liquidation under § 11 (b)
(2) of that Act. P. 637.
Congress did not intend that its exercise of power to simplify
holding-company systems should mature rights which were created
without regard to the possibility of such exercise of power and which
otherwise would mature only by voluntary action of stockholders
or involuntarily through action of creditors.
14 It is to be noted that the Commission has not foreclosed future
consideration of the car hire compensation problem, insofar as it
may be involved in determining railroad rates or a proper division of
through rail-water rates between Seatrain and the railroads. 248
L C. C.117; cf. Chicago, R. 1. & P. R. Co. v. United States, supra,
97, 109, note 11.

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

Opinion of the Court.

3. Continental Insurance Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 156, distinguished. P. 638.
4. In a liquidation pursuant to § 11 (b) (2) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, allocation of the assets as between different classes of securities may be made without dollar valuation
so long as each security holder in the order of his priority receives
the equitable equivalent of rights surrendered. P. 639.
142 F. 2d 411, affirmed.

322 U. S. 724, to review the affirmance of a
judgment approving a plan for the liquidation and dissolution of a holding company pursuant to an order of the
Securities & Exchange Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. Arthur G. Logan and Robert J. Bulkley for
petitioner.
Mr. Roger S. Foster,with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Messrs. Morton S. Yohalem, David K. Kadane, Theodore
L. Thau and John W. Christensen were on the brief, for
the Securities & Exchange Commission, and Mr. Donald
R. Richberg, with whom Mr. Clarence A. Southerland was
on the brief, for the United Light & Power Co.,
respondents.
MR. JusTIcE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
An important although narrow legal point in the interpretation of the Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935 1 is involved in this case. This is whether a plan
under § 11 (e) of that act may be "fair and equitable" to
preferred stockholders within the meaning of those words
as used in that section, which allows a participation by
junior common stockholders in the distribution of the
assets of a registered holding company, which is liquidated in compliance with § 11 (b) (2),before the senior
preferred stockholders receive securities whose, present
value equals the preferred's full liquidation preferences.
149 Stat. 803.

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

The Securities and Exchange Commission approved the
Plan, Holding Company Act Release No. 4215, April 5,
1943. The United States District Court of Delaware approved the Plan, 51 F. Supp. 217, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed this action. This Court has jurisdiction under Judicial Code, § 240 and Section 25 of the Holding Company Act. Certiorari was granted because of the
importance of the question raised in administration of the
Act. 322 U. S. 724.
The United Light and Power Company, a Maryland
corporation, is a registered holding company under the
Act. § 5. It is the top holding company of a large system
with twenty-four other corporate associates. § 2a (10).
Its place in the system violates the prohibition of the Act
against a registered holding company being a "holding
company with respect to [any] of its subsidiary companies [§ 2a (8)] which itself has a subsidiary company
which is a holding company." § 11 (b) (2). This prohibition is known as the "great-grandfather clause."
In proceedings for the simplification of the system, after
finding that Power violated the great-grandfather clause,
an order was entered on March 20, 1941, directing that
Power be liquidated and dissolved.2 The order authorized
Power to submit to the Commission a plan for compliance with the order "on a basis which is fair and equitable to its security holders." Power with its registered
holding company subsidiary, the United Light and Railways Company, a Delaware corporation, all of whose common stock was owned by Power, submitted such a plan
and after examination by the Commission and modification it was approved by order of April 5, 1943. The Plan
was held specifically to be fair and equitable to all security
holders. By the application and order Railways' partici2

The findings and opinion which led to this order are found in In

the Matter of the United Light and Power Company, 8 S. E. C. 837.

OTIS & CO. v. S. E.C.
624

627

Opinion of the Court.

pation in the Plan was accepted. Holding Company Act
Release No. 4215. This is the order which is before us.
It approved the Plan for the liquidation and dissolution
of Power as "necessary to effectuate the provisions of Section 11 (b) of the" Act.' It directed counsel for the Commission to apply to an appropriate federal court for an order enforcing the Plan.4 The central feature of the Plan
3"It shall be the duty of the Commission, as soon as practicable
after January 1, 1938:
"(2) To require by order, after notice and opportunity for hearing,
that each registered holding company, and each subsidiary company
thereof, shall take such steps as the Commission shall find necessary
to ensure that the corporate structure or continued existence of any
company in the holding-company system does not unduly or unnecessarily complicate the structure, or unfairly or inequitably distribute
voting power among security holders, of such holding-company system. In carrying out the provisions of this paragraph the Commission
shall require each registered holding company (and any company in
the same holding-company system with such holding company) to
take such action as the Commission shall find necessary in order that
such holding company shall cease to be a holding company with respect to each of its subsidiary companies which itself has a subsidiary
company which is a holding company ...

"

49 Stat. 820-21, § 11

(b) (2).
4 "(e) In accordance with such rules and regulations or order as
the Commission may deem necessary or appropriate in the public
interest or for the protection of investors or consumers, any registered holding company or any subsidiary company of a registered
holding company may, at any time after January 1, 1936, submit a
plan to the Commission for the divestment of control, securities, or
other assets, or for other action by such company or any subsidiary
company thereof for the purpose of enabling such company or any
subsidiary company thereof to comply with the provisions of subsection (b). If, after notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission shall find such plan, as submitted or as modified, necessary to
effectuate the provisions of subsection (b) and fair and equitable to
the persons affected by such plan, the Commission shall make an order
approving such plan; and the Commission, at the request of the corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

and the one here in issue was Power's proposed distribution of its assets to its preferred and common stockholders.
Power's chief asset was its holdings of common stock in its
subsidiary, Railways. It represented over $72,000,000
of its total gross assets of a little more than $81,000,000.
All other property of Power which remained after the
satisfaction of its obligations was to be distributed by
Power to Railways. Thus this residual property of Power
would inure to the benefit of Railways' new common
stockholders, the former stockholders of Power.
Distribution of Power's common stock holdings in Railways was to be effected on the basis of 5 shares of Railways'
common stock for one share of Power's preferred and one
share of Railways' common for 20 shares of Power's common, an allocation of 94.52% to Power's preferred stockholders and 5.48% to Power's common stockholders. As
Railways was the only company in the tier below Power
of the holding company system, it would become by the
dissolution of Power the top holding company and Power's
preferred and common stockholders, by the distribution
to them of all of Railways' common, would have in the
aggregate the same rights in Railways and in the holding
pany, may apply to a court, in accordance with the provisions of sub-

section (f) of section 18, to enforce and carry out the terms and provisions of such plan. If, upon any such application, the court, after
notice and opportunity for hearing, shall approve such plan as fair and
equitable and as appropriate to effectuate the provisions of section 11,
the court as a court of equity may, to such extent as it deems necessary
for the purpose of carrying out the terms and provisions of such plan,
take exclusive jurisdiction and possession of the company or companies and the assets thereof, wherever located; and the court shall
have jurisdiction to appoint a trustee, and the court may constitute
and appoint the Commission as sole trustee, to hold or administer,
under the direction of the court and in accordance with the plan theretofore approved by the court and the Commission, the assets so
possessed." 49 Stat. 822, § 11 (e).

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

Opinion of the Court.

company system that Power had. The rights and preferences of Power's stockholders would of course disappear with the distribution of Railways' common and the
dissolution of Power. As holders of Railways' single class
of common, a new relationship of equality would arise
between Power's preferred and common stockholders.
This order was preceded by an examination by the Commission into the situation of this holding company system.5 For a clear understanding of the single issue as
to whether, in the liquidation of a holding company by
order of the Commission under § 11 (e), a participation
by junior security holders in the assets is permissible before preferred security holders have received the entire
liquidating preference secured to them by the company's
charter, it is sufficient to state only the following facts
about which there is no controversy between the litigants.
Power is a solvent company. As of April 30, 1942, and
there is no intimation that its condition has worsened, its
balance sheet showed assets of $81,159,075 and liabilities
of only $6,132,976, without consideration of its capital
stock structure. Its principal asset, the Railways common stock heretofore referred to, has a book value in excess
of the $72,000,000 plus at which it is carried on Power's
balance sheet and an actual value which makes Power
unquestionably solvent with large equity values in its
stock.
Power has outstanding 600,000 shares of Class A Preferred. This preferred stock has a liquidation value of
$100 per share or $60,000,000, plus arrearages of $38,700,000 as of December 31, 1942, or a total liquidating
value ahead of the common, as of the time .of the order,
5The details are fully covered in 8 S. E. C. 837 and Application 14,
Release No. 4215.

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

of $98,700,000.0 There are 2,421,192 shares of Class
A
7
common and 1,055,576 shares of Class B common.
The Commission found the balance sheet value of all
Railways' common on a pro forma corporate basis to be
$77,954,874 and, when using a pro forma consolidated
basis for the entire system, to be $81,554,330. On a capitalization of reasonably anticipated earnings of the
system, the Commission was unable to find a value for
Railways' common "which approaches $98,700,000.00."' 8
6 Power's charter provides: "Upon the dissolution or liquidation
of the corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of
the Class A Preferred stock shall be entitled to receive out of the
net assets of the corporation, whether capital or surplus, for each
share of such stock, one hundred dollars and a sum of money equivalent to all cumulative dividends on such share, both accrued and in
arrears (whether or not the same shall have been declared or earned),
including the full dividend for the then current quarterly period,
before any payment is made to the holders of any stock other than
the Class A Preferred stock. Any assets thereafter remaining shall
be distributable among holders of stock other than the Class A Preferred stock in accordance with their rights at the time of the
distribution."
The amended charter (1929) also contalns the following:
"The Common Stock of the Company shall be subject to the rights
of the holders of the Class A Preferred stock."
I The two classes are entitled to the same rights, except the B has
votes. As there is no dispute before us as to the relative rights or
priorities of the common, the two classes will be treated in this opinion
as a single class of common.
8 "In order to show a value of as much as $98,700,000, it would be
necessary to capitalize 1942 consolidated net earnings applicable to
the common stock of Railways (the highest earnings since 1931) at
a rate of 6.9%, a times-earnings ratio of 14.5. Even if the most
liberal estimate of earnings made by the management, in the amount
of $7,000,000, be taken as the measure of prospective earning power,
capitalization of such earnings at a rate producing a times-earnings
ratio of 14.1 is necessary to reach an over-all value of $98,700,000."
Release No. 4215, pp. 7-8.
The Commission illustrated the market valuation by times-earnings
ratio by pointing out that for nine representative public utility holding
companies it had averaged from a high of 12.5 in 1937 to a low of 5.1
in 1942 with 1943 at 7.1. Id.

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

Opinion of the Court.

If the liquidation preference of Power's preferred stock is
applicable, under the Commission's conclusions on present
valuations all of the Railways' common would go on distribution to Power's preferred. The Commission determined that the liquidation preference was not applicable
and' for these reasons.
The Commission's order of March 20, 1941, for the
liquidation and dissolution of Power was a step in the
simplification of the holding company system which simplification was enjoined by § 11 (b) (2) of the Act. Satisfaction of the great-grandfather clause might have been
obtained in this or other holding company systems by an
order for merger, consolidation or recapitalization between
top holding companies or between associate companies in
the lower tiers of the corporate hierarchy. Such procedure would avoid the liquidation of Power. Cf. Windhurst v. CentralLeather Co., 105 N. J. Eq. 621, 149 A. 36;
Porges v. Vadsco Sales Corp., 32 A. 2d 148, 151. The
selection by the Commission of one method of system
adjustment to accomplish simplification rather than another is an incident which ought not to affect rights.
The exercise of legislative power by Congress through
§ 11 (b) (2) to accomplish simplification as a matter of
public policy and the Commission's administration of the
Act by dissolution of this particular company results in a
type of liquidation which is entirely distinct from the
"liquidation of the corporation, whether voluntary or
involuntary" envisaged by the charter provisions of Power
for preferences to the senior stock."
This conclusion permitted the Commission to examine
the investment values of the common and preferred stocks
of Power. The rights of the preferred stock to $6 annual
cumulative dividends in the going business 10 and to full
priority in liquidation other than by operation of the Act
were treated as factors in valuation rather than determi1Release No. 4215, pp. 9-12.
108 S. E. C. 842.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

native of amounts payable in a traditional dissolution.
Upon analysis of the Holding Company System's experience and upon an estimate of future earnings, the Commission assumed earnings of $6,185,000 annually which
would be applicable to Railways' common and, as a consequence of the distribution, to Power's preferred and
common stockholders. Since the annual preferred dividend requirements were $3,600,000, there appeared a balance of $2,585,000 available for the reduction of preferred
stock arrearages of $38,700,000 as of December 31, 1942.
The Commission noted that if all the assumed earnings
materialized and were applied to liquidating the preferred
current and deferred dividends, in approximately fifteen
years the arrearages would be paid and the common would
be in a position to receive dividends. 1 Furthermore, only
by forced liquidation could the common stock be deprived
of its possibility for future earnings. Only by means of
forced liquidation and the receipt of all Railways' common,
could Power's preferred gain a right to prospective earnings above its guaranteed dividends. The deferred dividends do not bear interest. While recognizing that the
common stock participation was remote, the Commission determined that in its "over-all judgment" Power's
common had a legitimate investment value of a proportion of 5.48 per cent of Power's assets to the preferred's
value of 94.52 per cent. Such a conclusion is not "susceptible of mathematical demonstration," 12 any more than
any other valuation of a utility's worth. The Commission determined this allocation was fair and equitable
within § 11 (e).
Petitioner does not challenge the above allocation of
values between the preferred and common stock of Power,
if the Commission is correct in treating the stock rights
11 Release No. 4215, p. 18.

12 Id., p. 19.

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

633

Opinion of the Court.

as though in a continuing enterprise instead of in liquidation. Petitioner relies upon the charter rights which on
liquidation of Power give to the preferred $100 and the cumulated and accrued dividends. Note 6, supra. It relies
upon the authorities of this and other courts which hold
that under a full priority rule junior securities in bankruptcy or equity reorganizations may not participate in
the assets until the rights of the holders of senior securities are satisfied in full." Petitioner says:
"When the Plan, whatever the device used, contemplates the surrender of outstanding securities for new securities, either in the same or a different company, it is not
'fair and equitable' to force senior security holders to accept less than that which they are contractually entitled
to receive."
To petitioner, no distinction is to be drawn between liquidation under bankruptcy or reorganization and liquidation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act by
virtue of §§ 11 (b) (2) and 11 (e).
We reach the conclusion that the Securities and Exchange Commission applied the correct rule of law as to
the rights of the stockholders inter sese. That is to say,
when the Commission proceeds in the simplification of a
holding company system, the rights of stockholders of a
solvent company which is ordered by the Commission to
distribute its assets among its stockholders may be evaluated on the basis of a going business and not as though a
liquidation were taking place.
The manifest solvency of Power simplifies the problem
of stockholders' rights with which we are here concerned.
Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482; Case v. Los
Angeles Lumber ProductsCo., 308 U. S. 106; ConsolidatedRock Products Co. v. du Bois, 312 U. S. 510; Marine Propertiesv. Manufacturers
Trust Co., 317 U. S. 78; Ecker v. Western Pacific R. Corp., 318 U. S.
448; Group of Investors v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 318 U. S.
523.
13

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

The creditors are satisfied.'
No possibility exists that
simplification of structure is employed here to evade or
nullify creditors' rights in reorganization or to take the
place of traditional reorganization. 5
Like the bankruptcy and reorganization statutes, the
Public Utility Holding Company Act, in providing that
plans for simplification be "fair and equitable," incorporates the principle of full priority in the treatment to be
accorded various classes of security interests. This right
to priority in assets which exists between creditors and
stockholders, exists also between various classes of stockholders. When by contract as evidenced by charter provisions one class of stockholders is superior to another
in its claim against earnings or assets, that superior position must be recognized by courts or agencies which deal
with the earnings or assets of such a company. Fairness
and equity require this conclusion. Even before our decision in Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co. on

November 6, 1939, recent federal cases had recognized
this priority.' 6 That has been their view since the Case
decision, In re Porto Rican American Tobacco Co., 112

F. 2d 655, 656-57.

This is the rule applied by the Com-

14 Creditors' contracts also have been declared subject to equitable
adjustment in corporate reorganizations so long as they receive "full
compensatory treatment" whether the reorganization is in bankruptcy
(Kansas City Terminal R. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co., 271 U. S.
445, 455; Consolidated Rock Products Co. v. du Bois, 312 U. S. 510,
528-30; Group of Investors v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 318
U. S. 523, 565-66) or in compliance with regulatory statutes. Continental Ins. Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 156, 170-76. The full
priority rule applies to reorganizations of solvent companies. Consolidated Rock Products Co. v. du Bois, 312 U. S. 510, 527.
15 See In the Matter of Jacksonville Gas Company, Holding Company Act Release No. 3570, In re Jacksonville Gas Co., 46 F. Supp. 852,
856.
16
In re New York Railways Corp., 82 F. 2d 739, 743-44; In re National Food ProductsCorp., 23 F. Supp. 979, 985; In re Utilities Power
& Light Corp., 29 F. Supp. 763, 769.

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

Opinion of the Court.

mission in the simplification of corporate structure. The
Commission recognizes and applies the doctrine of full
priority by giving value to the rights of the preferred in
a going concern rather than as if by sale and distribution.
Its views are stated below.' The issue in this case is not
whether full priority should be given to preferred over
common stockholders but whether the priority which is
establishe'd by the charter, note 6, is applicable to a simplification by liquidation under § 11 (b) (2) and (e).
There is an argument that if the charter provision applies
to this situation, it cannot be disregarded and that in such
a liquidation "fair and equitable" would require the dis1 "It is pointed out in Commissioner Healy's separate opinion that
the words 'fair and equitable' embodied in Section 11 have a settled
meaning, as determined by the courts, and that an application of the
'absolute priorities' doctrine must result in no distribution to Power's
common stock in this case. But that is because he measures the rights
of the preferred stock as they would be measured in bankruptcy cases,
and not merely because he follows the 'absolute priorities' doctrine in
determining the consequences of the measurement. In other words,
we can agree with him when he says that absolute priorities must be
respected, because we think that doctrine simply means that the common stock must not be accorded any participation unless the preferred stock has been fully compensated for its rights and priorities.
But there the area of agreement stops, because he says further that
the rights and priorities of the preferred stockholders are the same
here as" in bankruptcy cases, where their claime to liquidation preferences (including dividend arrearages) are treated as matured. In
our view it would be unconscionable and contrary to the plain intention of Congress to so hold." Holding Company Act Release No.
4215, p. 12.
"Under the circumstances, fair and equitable compensation will
be given to all of the claimants if their rights are measured not in
terms of the situation created by the statute but rather in terms of
the situation terminated by it-i. e., as though no liquidation were to
take place. In this way, each class of stock will be accorded its proportionate share of the benefits to be gained from the elimination of
a useless and expensive corporate entity and from the receipt of a
security representing a more direct investment in the underlying assets
and earnings of the system." Id., p. 13.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

tribution of assets only to the preferred. We do not reach
that question. Th~e point at issue is whether this charter
provision applies.
The applicability of the charter provision under the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 is a matter
of federal law.18
When the President sent to Congress the report of the
National Power Policy Committee which placed the suggestions of the Executive on holding companies before the
legislative body, he said of the pending Public Utility
Holding Company bill:
"Such a measure will not destroy legitimate business or
wholesome and productive investment. It will not destroy a penny of actual value of those operating properties
which holding companies now control and which holding
company securities represent insofar as they have any
value. On the contrary, it will surround the necessary
reorganization of the holding company with safeguards
which will in fact protect the investor." S. Rep. No. 621,
74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.
That report urged the same care to investors:
"Simplification and reorganization of holding-company
structures, making possible within a reasonable period the
practical elimination of the holding company, should be
conducted under the Commission's supervision over a
period of time to prevent undue losses to security holders
from investment dislocations." Id., p. 60.
Of course, Congress would wish, in simplifying a holding
company system capital structure, to preserve values to
18 Jerome v. United States, 318 U. S. 101, 104; Wragg v. Federal
Land Bank, 317 U. S. 325, 328; Chicago Board of Trade v. Johnson,
264 U. S. 1, 10; Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Co., 317 U. S. 173, 176;
Labor Board v. Hearst Publications,322 U. S. 111, 120, 129; Clearfield
Trust Co. v. United States, 318 U. S. 363, 366; O'Brien v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 113 F. 2d 539, 541.

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

Opinion of the Court.

investors, not to destroy them.19 Consequently, while
giving the Commission power to compel the elimination of
holding companies deemed uneconomic, it allowed the
affected companies to propose plans to the Commission to
effectuate the objects and the Commission to approve such
plans when they were considered "fair and equitable."
§§ 11 (b) (2) and (e), notes3 and 4.
It may be that if the charter liquidation preference were
held to cover this situation it would not frustrate the simplification of the holding company system, to the same degree that the gold clause agreements interfered with the
power of Congress to regulate the gold content of the dollar. Norman v. B. & O. R. Co., 294 U. S. 240, 306, et seq.,
and cases cited. Distribution to preferred stockholders
only with disregard of common's interest would eliminate
Power and cure the system's present inconsistency with
the great-grandfather clause. We think; however, the
charter preference is inoperative in simplification under
§ 11 (b) (2). The provision having been adopted in 1929,
six years prior to enactment of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act, a "simplification" under this Act, having
as an incident to it the dissolution of one company in a
holding company system, was not an anticipated "liquidation" within the meaning of Power's charter provision.
Enforcement of an overriding public policy should not
have its effect visited on one class witli a corresponding
windfall to another class of security holders. Nor should
common stock values be made to depend on whether the
Commission, in enforcing compliance with the Act, resorts to dissolution of a particular company in the holding
company system, or resorts instead to the devices of mer19 "Such disposition as may be necessary can be accomplished by
reorganization which will equitably redistribute securities among
existing security holders." S. Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 16; H. Rep. No. 1318, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 49-50.

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

ger or consolidation, which would not run afoul of a charter provision formulated years before adoption of the Act
in question. The Commission in its enforcement of the
policies of the Act should not be hampered in its determination of the proper type of holding company structure
by considerations of avoidance of harsh effects on various
stock interests which might result from enforcement of
charter provisions of doubtful applicability to the procedures undertaken. Where pre-existing contract provisions exist which produce results at variance with a legislative policy which was not foreseeable at the time the
contract was made, they cannot be permitted to operate.
Compare New York Trust Co. v. Securities & Exchange
Commission, 131 F. 2d 274; In re Laclede Gas Light Co.,
57 F. Supp. 997. The reason does not lie in the fact that
the business of Power continues in another form. That
is true of bankruptcy and equity reorganization. It lies
in the fact that Congress did not intend that its exercise
of power to simplify should mature rights, created without regard to the possibility of simplification of system
structure, which otherwise would only arise by voluntary
action of stockholders or, involuntarily, through action
of creditors. We must assume that Congress intended
to exercise its power with the least possible harm to
citizens.
But it is said that such a conclusion is at variance with
this Court's ruling in ContinentalInsurance Co. v. United
States, 259 U. S. 156. In that case a liquidation of the
Reading Company, a holder of interests in railroads and
coal mines, was compelled by governmental prosecution
so that it would not be operating in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act or the Hepburn Act.' Its coal properties, corporate assets, were passed to a newly organized
20259 U. S. 156 at 177; United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26;
26 Stat. 209; 34 Stat. 584.

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

Opinion of the Court.

coal company, the value of whose stock, by negotiable
certificates of interest, came into possession of Reading's
old stockholders individually. The distribution gave
equal participation in the coal properties to the common
and preferred stock in accordance with the charter agreement as to assets on liquidation, pages 177-181. The
common stock contended that as the value of the coal
properties was surplus, all of the coal certificates should
go to the common stockholders as in a continuing business. Thus, by its approval of the distribution, this Court
handled the liquidation, which was forced by law, says
petitioner, in accordance with the charter provisions and
not as though it were a continuing business.
The Continental or Reading case turned, however, on
the charter rights of the preferred to share equally with
the common in earnings which had become assets, pages
179-80, not on whether a right to share was matured or
varied by governmental action. Contrary to the situation
in this present case, the charter provisions of the Reading Company were adopted with knowledge of the sanctions of the Sherman Act against monopoly. 259 U. S.
177 and 171. We do not feel constrained by its dealing
with charter rights as in a normal liquidation to hold that
where liquidation is adopted as a matter of administrative
routine, the preferences are thereby matured.
As indicated earlier in this opinion, we have not undertaken to review the facts to determine whether the allocation of stock between the preferred and common is in
proper proportion. That issue is not made. It was vigorously discussed by Commissioner Healy in the dissenting opinion. Holding Company Act Release 4215, p.
39 et seq. See Dodd, Holding Company Act Recapitalizations, 57 Harv. L. Rev. 295, 319. The allocation properly may be made without dollar valuation so long as
"each security holder in the order of his priority receives

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

from that which is available for the satisfaction of his
claim the equitable equivalent of the rights surrendered."
Group of Investors v. Chicago, M.,St. P. & P. R. Co., 318
U. S.523, 565; ConsolidatedRock Products Co. v. du Bois,
312 U. S. 510, 529-30; Ecker v. Western Pacific R. Corp.,
318 U. S. 448,482; Kansas City TerminalR. Co. v. Central
Union Trust Co., 271 U. S. 445, 455.
As the parties have not challenged them, we have not
considered in any way the constitutionality of the sections
of the Holding Company Act involved.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR.JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER

and-

I think the judgment below should be reversed.
The United Light and Power Company, the subject of
this litigation, is a holding company subject to provisions
of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of August 26,
1935,49 Stat. 803. It has $60,000,000 par value of Class A
preferred stock, of which petitioner holds some shares,
and two classes of common stock. The corporate charter
provides:
"Upon the dissolution or liquidation of the corporation,
whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Class
A Preferred stock shall be entitled to receive out of the
net assets of the corporation, whether capital or surplus,
for each share of such stock, one hundred dollars and a sum
of money equivalent to all cumulative dividends on such
share, both accrued and in arrears (whether or not the
same shall have been declared or earned), including the
full dividend for the then current quarterly period, before
any payment is made to the holders of any stock other
than the Class A Preferred stock."

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

The dividends on the preferred stock accrued and unpaid amount to $64.50 per share, and the total priority of
the preferred stock as provided by the corporate charter
is $98,700,000.
Sections 1 (c) and 11 (a) and (b) (2) of the Act authorize the Commission, after an examination of their corporate structures, "to compel the simplification of publicutility holding-company systems" and to require any such
holding company "to take such action as the Commission
shall find necessary in order that such holding company
shall cease to be a holding company with respect to each
of its subsidiary companies which itself has a subsidiary
company which is a holding company." Section 11 (e) requires any plan of reorganization approved by the Commission to be "fair and equitable to the persons affected
by such plan."
Acting under these provisions of § 11 the Commission
has ordered that United be "liquidated and dissolved" as
a step in the simplification of the holding company structure, so that United shall cease to be a holding company
as commanded by § 11 (b) (2), and its stockholders shall
become stockholders in its subsidiary, Railways Co. The
Commission, in ordering dissolution and liquidation of the
company, and providing for the distribution of its assets,
found that the stipulated priority of the preferred stock
is far in excess of the present value of the company's assets.
It said that if the stipulated priority "is controlling, our
inquiry must perforce be ended at this point in a decision
that the preferred stock is entitled to all the assets of the
corporation to the exclusion of. the common."
Nevertheless, the Commission has ordered, and this
Court sustains the order, that only 94.52% of the assets
of the company be allocated to the preferred stock upon
liquidation and 5.48% to the common. For purposes of
liquidation the Commission measured the rights of the
different classes of stockholders in terms of the estimated

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
SToNz, C. J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

value of their interests as though the liquidation which
the Commission had ordered were not to take place and
the corporation were to continue as a going concern. In
short, in liquidating the corporation it determined, as the
opinion of the Court declares, that in distributing the
assets of the corporation among its stockholders the rights
of the stockholders "may be evaluated on the basis of a
going business and not as though a liquidation were taking
place."
Peering into the future with almost clairvoyant percipience the Commission prophesied that if the company
now being liquidated and dissolved were allowed to continue its operations it would, fifteen years hence, have
paid all arrears of dividends on the preferred and would
then be able to pay an estimated annual return on the common stock in excess of $2,500,000. This prophecy assumed
average future earnings in excess of $6,000,000 a year, a
sum which "actual earnings . . . have never in the past
ten years exceeded . . ., except in 1942." This prognosis, the Commission thought, afforded justification for
distributing the assets of the corporation upon its liquidation and dissolution, not according to the stipulated priority of the preferred stock upon liquidation, which is in
fact taking place, or indeed in conformity to its priority
right to current earnings if the company were to continue
unliquidated. For by the Commission's order the preferred is required to surrender to the common what is the
equivalent of more than 5% of its fixed priority right to
the annual earnings from the assets of the company, which
earnings of a "going business" would be required to satisfy dividends on the preferred before any payment of dividends on the common. The preferred stockholders are
thus denied the priority for which they have stipulated
on liquidation, and also the priority with respect to current earnings to which they would be entitled by virtue
of their position as preferred stockholders if the company,

OTIS & CO. v. S. E.C.

643

N

624

STONE, C. J.,

dissenting.

which has been in fact condemned to death by the Commission, is, as the Commission at the same time supposes,
to be regarded as living and functioning as "a going
business."
The judgment of the court below sustaining so extradtdinary a result should, in our opinion, be reversed becaise
the Commission, without authority in law and contrary to the command of the statute, has disregarded the
plain terms of the corporate charter cofitrollirig priority
of the preferred stock upon liquidation of the company
whether voluntary or involuntary.
The opinion of the Court adopts for its support a
ground which the Commission declined to adopt, and the
decision of the Commission rested upon a second ground
on Which the Court appears not to rely. We think it
clear that neither ground is supportable. The first is that
the charter provision fixink the priority of the preferred
stock in the event of "liquidation" was not intended to
apply and is inapplicable to a "liquidation" like the present. For here, it is insisted, the liquidation, which has in
fact been ordered and is being enforced, is nevertheless to
be regarded as a fiction; and the interests of the different
classes of stockholders are to be measured by resort to the
fiction that they are continuing iiterests in a corporation
which is not to be liquidated, but is to be continued as a
going concern. The other ground, adopted by the Commisgibn, is that if the charter provision does apply the
Comnission is free to override it by any plan of distribution which it finds to be "fair and equitable."
As to the first it is plain that the company is now being
liquidated and dissolved; that the liquidation is involuntary; and that some of the corporation's assets are being
distributed to the common stock before satisfaction of the
stipulated priority of the preferred, and this with full
knowledge of all concerned that the company is without
assets to satisfy the priority. Since these are the precise

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

conditions on which the priority provision was, according
to its terms, to operate, it is not apparent why this
"liquidation" is not a "liquidation" within the meaning of
the charter provision.
It is said that although the liquidation is involuntary, it
is not within the charter provision, and that the stipulation for priority on liquidation may be disregarded because the Holding Company Act was enacted after the
adoption of the charter, and hence the parties to the incorporation could not have contemplated a compulsory
liquidation under its provisions. We find. it difficult to
suppose that a stockholder who stipulates for priority
upon liquidation, whether voluntary or involuntary, is at
all concerned with the particular source of the power
which may compel the liquidation of his investment or
with the purpose of its exercise. Unless words have lost
their meaning, the stipulation for priority in this case
cannot fairly be taken not to include any kind of a liquidation which would compel the surrender of the stockholder's investment and force him to sever his connection
with the corporation in which he has invested.
When the preferred stock of the United was issued in
1929 there were numerous statutes, state and federal,
which authorized liquidation and dissolution of corporations by government compulsion. See for example Continental Insurance Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 156. It
is the veriest fiction to say that investors in corporate
securities at that time could not or did not consider the
possibility of the addition of a single statute to this list,
or that the stockholders of United by the stipulation
for priority upon liquidation, voluntary or involuntary,
intended to exclude from its operation any method of
involuntary liquidation which would affect their interests.
To conclude that the present stipulation for priority upon
involuntary liquidation did not envisage a liquidation
such as this one seems like saying that an insurance policy

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

STONE, C. J:, dissenting.

payable on the death of the insured creates no obligation
if the insured dies from a disease which was unknown when
the policy was written.
We cannot assent to the proposition advanced by the
Commission that even though the priority stipulation was
intended to be applicable to any kind of an involuntary
liquidation, including one such as the present, the Commission can nevertheless override it. Such provisions for
priority in a corporate charter constitute a contract among
the stockholders, which is entitled to constitutional protection, Bedford v. Eastern Building & Loan Assn., 181
U. S. 227; Hopkins Federal Savings & Loan Assn. v.
Cleary, 296 U. S. 315; Treigle v. Acme Homestead Assn.,
297 U. S. 189, 194-6, impairment of which is not lightly
to be attributed to Congress. No constitutional issue is
raised here, but we find no provision of the statute which
purports to confer on the Commission, in the exercise of
its power to liquidate a corporation, any authority to
set aside a lawful stipulation in which the 5tockholders
have joined fixing their relative rights in the event of
liquidation.
On the argument of this case counsel for the respondent
referred to the Commission's action in setting aside the
contract as an exercise of its power to "remold" the contract. Whether this characterization of the Commission's
action may be thought to render it more palatable to the
preferred stockholders whose lawful contract has been set
aside by the Commission, jt is plain that in the absence of
some controlling direction of the statute there are no circumstances here which call for the exercise of any implied power of the Commission or court to readjust or
restate the rights of the stockholders without regard to
their contract. There is no suggestion that the present
stipulation is unlawful, oppressive or inequitable, or subject to any other infirmity; or that it is incapable of being
carried out in the present liquidation to which it applies.

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

Hence there is no basis for the exercise of equity powers to
adjust the rights of parties to a contract which has been
set aside; or for the Commission's argument, which the
Court of Appeals below seems to have sustained, 142 F.
2d 411, 419, that the action of the Commission is supportable as an exercise of the judicial power to make an
equitable disposition of the rights of the parties to a frustrated contract. Cf. New York Trust Co. v. Securities &
Exchange Commission, 131 F. 2d 274.
So far as the Commission has authority to liquidate any
corporation, liquidation is only a step in the simplification
of a holding company system or the elimination of an undesirable holding company, which axe the avowed purposes
of the Act. The Commission does not reveal how the distribution of the corporate assets, upon which the stockholders have agreed, would hamper the simplification or
the elimination of the liquidated company; or how the
different distribution ordered by the Commission would
facilitate them. It seems wholly irrelevant to the achievement of these, which are the avowed purposes of the Act,
whether the stockholders of the dissolved corporation
share in its assets in one proportion or another. Neither
the Commission, the public, nor the stockholders have any
ground for complaint so long as the agreed priority rights
to the distributed assets remain unaltered.
The Commission has found its authority for setting
aside the priority stipulation in the requirement of § 11 (e)
that the Commission must find that any plan it approves
for elimination of a holding company is "fair and equitable." As we have already indicated, the Commission has
said that it is "fair and equitable" to deprive preferred
stockholders, in the event of liquidation, of the rights for
which they have stipulated and paid in order to compensate the common stockholders for rights which they are
said to have lost because of the liquidation. But such
compensation of the common stockholders at the expense

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

SToNE, C. J.,

dissenting.

of the preferred is contrary to the priority stipulation by
which both are bound. The common stockholders, like the
preferred, have no right not to have the company liquidated and are entitled to no compensation merely because
it is liquidated. Their rights as stockholders cannot survive liquidation and dissolution of the company, and in
that event and because of it and because of the stipulation
neither can assert rights which they could enjoy only if the
corporation were to continue as a going concern.
We can find no basis for saying that it is not fair and
equitable, both in a technical as well as a general and nontechnical sense, to require the stockholders to abide by
their agreement in the very circumstances to which it was
intended to apply, and where, as we have said, there is no
contention that the contract when made was or is now
oppressive, unfair, inequitable or illegal. But beyond this
we think it is quite clear that the requirement of § 11 (e)
that the plan be "fair and equitable," instead of furnishing
authority for the deprivation of shareholders of their
priority in liquidation, isa prohibition against it.
The phrase "fair and equitable" as applied to any form
of corporate reorganization has long been recognized as
signifying the requirement of the rule sanctioned by this
Court in Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482,
and the many cases following it. The rule is that any
arrangement or plan enforced without the con'sent of the
parties affected by it, by which the subordinate rights and
interests of stockholders are attempted to be secured at the
expense of the prior rights of other security holders, is
unfair and inequitable and will not be judicially sanctioned. See Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Co., 308 U. S.
106, and cases cited. This rule is applicable with respect
to the priorities of different classes of stockholders as well
as to priorities between creditors and stockholders, and
for the same reasons. Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Co.,
supra,119, note 14.

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

In the Los Angeles case, supra, we held that the words
"fair and equitable" had so long been recognized and applied as signifying this rule of priority among security
holders in corporate reorganizations as to have become
words of art, and that their adoption by § 77B of the
Bankruptcy Act, as applicable to reorganizations under
that section, must be taken to have incorporated the rule
of the Boyd case in the statute, in the absence of any context requiring a contrary construction. We think no other
construction of § 11 (e) of the present Act can be sustained. Neither the context of the statute nor the legislative history suggests any other. The Commission hints
at no reason for not giving these terms of art, "fair and
equitable," other than their long settled and hitherto
accepted meaning.
The Commission justifies its departure from the rule
here only by recurrence in its brief to the proposition that
"the essence of the reorganization process is the remolding
of contract rights and the substitution therefor of equitable
equivalents." To this the answer is that the Commission
in this case is liquidating and dissolving, not reorganizing,
United, and that it is without authority in such a case
more than in a reorganization to alter or disregard a contract fixing the priorities of stockholders, and that in depriving the preferred stockholders of their priority rights
the Commission has substituted no equivalent for them,
either legal or equitable. In fact it has substituted nothing
for the priority rights which its order destroys.
The Gold Clause Cases, Norman v. B. & 0. R. Co., 294
U. S. 240, afford no analogy and lend no support to what
is now adjudged. There Congress, with the authority of
an express provision of the Constitution, explicitly altered
existing contracts. Here Congress has commanded the
Commission to respect contract rights by requiring that
its action conform to the well defined meaning of the
phrase "fair and equitable." Congress seems to have recognized that the stipulated priorities of stockholders were

OTIS & CO. v. S. E. C.
624

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

not to be disturbed in liquidations ordered under the Public Utility Holding Company Act. The report of the
Senate Committee (S. Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 33) recommending the enactment of the present statute
and proponents of the Bill (H. R. Rep. 1318, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess., pp. 49-50; 79 Cong. Rec. 4607, 8432) repeatedly
cited Continental Insurance Co. v. United States, supra,
in which it was held that the distribution in a liquidation
compelled by the enforcement of the Sherman and Hepburn Acts must preserve the stipulated priorities of the
several classes of stockholders of the offending corporation.
The intimation that the priority stipulation can be disregarded in the present liquidation because the Commission could have effected the simplification of the holding
company structure by merger, consolidation or recapitalization, is merely to say that such procedure would not
involve liquidation, voluntary or involuntary, or, what
comes to the same thing, that the preferred stockholders
could not claim the protection of the priority stipulation
in situations to which it does not and was not intended
to apply. By buying preferred stock the preferred stockholders paid for the privilege of membership in the corporation and for participation in the fruits of the corporate
enterprise, to continue, with full priority of dividends so
long as the corporation should continue as a going concern.
But in the event of liquidation they stipulated and paid
for the specified priority over the common stockholders in
the distribution of the net corporate assets. The preferred
stockholders here assert only the rights to which that stock
is entitled on liquidation by the terms of the priority stipulation. Calling the preferred stockholders' right of priority
a "windfall" will riot serve as an apology, explanation, or
justification for the Commission's action in appropriating
the priority of the preferred in order to give a windfall to
the common. It is no answer to say that their claim on
liquidation might have been avoided by not liquidating
or to say, as the Commission has ordered, that they must

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

650

Counsel for Parties.

323 V. S.

accept on liquidation less than their stipulated priority on
liquidation and less than the rights to which they would
have been entitled if the corporation had continued as a
going concern.
The judgment should be reversed.
PRUDENCE

REALIZATION

CORPORATION

v.

FERRIS ET AL., TRUSTEES, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO TAE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 137.

Argued December 8, 11, 1944.-Decided January 29, 1945.

1. The bankruptcy court having closed a § 77B proceeding for the
reorganization of an issue of mortgage participation certificates,
without determining or retaining jurisdiction to determine the question of relative priority as between a guarantor and other holders,
and having remitted the parties to "a court of competent jurisdiction" for the determination of that question, the state court as
such a court properly determined the question in accordance with
the law of the State. Prudence Corp. v. Gdist, 316 t. S. 89, distinguished. Pp. 654-656.
2. No appeal having been taken from the bankruptcy court's failure
to retain jurisdiction to determine the question of relative priority,
the order confirming the plan of reorganization is res judicata.
P. 654.
292 N. Y. 210, 54 N. E. 2d 367, affirmed.

post, p. 686, to review a determination of the
relative rights of the parties in a distribution to creditors
under a plan of reorganization,
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Irving L. Schanzer, with whom Mr. James F. Dealy
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr; Charles H. Kriger, with whom Mrs. Henrietta
Kriger was on the brief, for Ferris et al., and Mr. Eugene
Blanc, Jr., with whom Messrs. John Ross Delafield and
Robert McC. Marsh were on the brief, for City Bank
Farmers Trust Co. et al., respondents.

