EX PARTE ENDO.
273

283

Syllabus.

The prosecuting officers of that state would be most interested in enforcement and would best understand the
scope of the laws of the state of delivery. Congress
would not wish to leave immune shipments from foreign
countries.
The

Cf. United States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117.

CHIEF JUSTICE,

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS and MR.

join in this dissent.

EX PARTE MITSUYE ENDO.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 70. Argued October 12, 1944.-Decided December 18, 1944.
1. The War Relocation Authority, whose power over persons evacuated from military areas derives from Executive Order No. 9066,
which was ratified and confirmed by the Act of March 21, 1942,
was without authority, express or implied, to subject to its leave
procedure a concededly loyal and law-abiding citizen of the United
States. P. 297.
2. Wartime measures are to be interpreted as intending the greatest
possible accommodation between the Constitutional liberties of the
citizen and the exigencies of war. P. 300.
3. The sole purpose of the Act of March 21, 1942 and Executive
Orders Nos. 9066 and 9102 was the protection of the war effort
against espionage and sabotage. P. 300.
4. Power to detain a concededly loyal citizen may not be implied from
the power to protect the war effort against espionage and sabotage.
P. 302.
5. The power to detain a concededly loyal citizen or to grant him a
conditional release can not be implied as a useful or convenient step
in the evacuation program. P. 302.
6. The Act of March 21, 1942 and Executive Orders Nos. 9066 and
9102 afford no basis for keeping loyal evacuees of Japanese ancestry in custody on the ground of community hostility. P. 302.
7. The District Court having acquired jurisdiction upon an application
for habeas corpus, and there being within the district one responsible for the detention and who would be an appropriate

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

respondent, the cause was not rendered moot by the removal of the
applicant to another circuit pending appeal from a denial of the
writ, and the District Court has jurisdiction to issue the writ.
United States v. Crystal, 319 U. S. 755, distinguished. P. 305.

ON APPEAL

from an order of the District Court denying

a writ of habeas corpus, the Circuit Court of Appeals certified questions to this Court, which, under Judicial Code
§ 239, ordered the entire record sent up.
Mr. James C. Purcell, with whom Mr. Wayne M. Collins was on the brief, for Mitsuye Endo.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Wechsler and Messrs. Edward J. Ennis, Ralph F.
Fuchs, and John L. Burling were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. Wayne M. Collins filed a brief on behalf of the
Northern California Branch of the American Civil Liberties Union; and Messrs. Osmond K. Fraenkel, Edwin
Borchard,Charles Horsky, Arthur DeHon Hill, Winthrop
Wadleigh, Harold Evans, William Draper Lewis, and
Thomas Raeburn White on behalf of the American Civil
Liberties Union, as amici curiae, in support of Mitsuye
Endo.
MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes here on a certificate of the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, certifying to us questions
of law upon which it desires instructions for the decision
of the case. Judicial Code § 239, 28 U. S. C. § 346. Acting
under that section we ordered the entire record to be certified to this Court so that we might proceed to a decision,
as if the case had been brought here by appeal.
Mitsuye Endo, hereinafter designated as the appellant,
is an 'American citizen of Japanese ancestry. She was

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

Opinion of the Court.

evacuated from Sacramento, California, in 1942, pursuant to certain military orders which we will presently discuss, and was removed to the Tule Lake War Relocation
Center located at Newell, Modoc County, California. In
July, 1942, she filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus
in the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California, asking that she be discharged and

restored to liberty. That petition was denied by the District Court in July, 1943, and an appeal was perfected to
the Circuit Court of Appeals in August, 1943. Shortly
thereafter appellant was transferred from the Tule Lake
Relocation Center to the Central Utah Relocation Center
located at Topaz, Utah, where she is presently detained.
The certificate of questions of law was filed here on April
22, 1944, and on May 8,1944, we ordered the entire record
to be certified to this Court. It does not appear that any
respondent was ever served with process or appeared in
the proceedings. But the United States Attorney for the
Northern District of California argued before the District
Court that the petition should not be granted. And the
Solicitor General argued the case here.
The history of the evacuation of Japanese aliens and
citizens of Japanese ancestry from the Pacific coastal regions, following the Japanese attack on our Naval Base
at Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, and the declaration
of war against Japan on December 8, 1941 (55 Stat. 795),
has been reviewed in Hirabayashiv. United States, 320
U. S.81. It need be only briefly recapitulated here. On
February 19, 1942, the President promulgated Executive
Order No. 9066, 7 Fed. Reg. 1407. It recited that
"the successful prosecution of the war requires every possible protection against espionage and against sabotage to
national-defense material, national-defense premises, and
national-defense utilities, as defined in Section 4, Act of
April 20, 1918, 40 Stat. 533, as amended by the Act of No-

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U.S.

vember 30, 1940, 54 Stat. 1220, and the Act of August 21,
1941, 55 Stat. 655 (U. S. C., Title 50, See. 104)."
And it authorized and directed
"the Secretary of War, and the Military Commanders
whom he may from time to time designate, whenever he
or any designated Commander deems such action necessary or desirable, to prescribe military areas in such places
and of such extent as he or the appropriate Military Commander may determine, from which any or all persons may
be excluded, and with respect to which, the right of any
person to enter, remain in, or leave shall be subject to
whatever restrictions the Secretary of War or the appropriate Military Commander may impose in his discretion.
The Secretary of War is hereby authorized to provide for
residents of any such area who are excluded therefrom,
such transportation, food, shelter, and other accommodations as may be necessary, in the judgment of the Secretary of War or the said Military Commander, and until
other arrangements are made, to accomplish the purpose
of this order."
Lt. General J. L. De Witt, Military Commander of the
Western Defense Command, was designated to carry out
the duties prescribed by that Executive Order. On March
2,1942, he promulgated Public Proclamation No. 1 (7 Fed.
Reg. 2320) which recited that the entire Pacific Coast of
the United States
"by its geographical location is particularly subject to attack, to attempted invasion by the armed forces of nations
with which the United States is now at war, and, in connection therewith, is subject to espionage and acts of sabotage,
thereby requiring the adoption of military measures necessary to establish safeguards against such enemy operations."
It designated certain Military Areas and Zones in the
Western Defense Command and announced that certain
persons might subsequently be excluded from these areas.

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

Opinion of the Court.

On March 16, 1942, General De Witt promulgated Public
Proclamation No. 2 which contained similar recitals and
designated further Military Areas and Zones. 7 Fed.
Reg. 2405.
On March 18, 1942, the President promulgated Executive Order No. 9102 which established in the Office for
Emergency Management of the Executive Office of the
President the War Relocation Authority. 7 Fed. Reg.
2165. It recited that it was made "in order to provide for
the removal from designated areas of persons whose removal is necessary in the interests of national security." It
provided for a Director and authorized and directed him to
"formulate and effectuate a program for the removal,
from the areas designated from time to time by the Secretary of War or appropriate military commander under
the authority of Executive Order No. 9066 of February 19,
1942, of the persons or classes of persons designated under
such Executive Order, and for their relocation, maintenance, and supervision."
The Director was given the authority, among other things,
to prescribe regulations necessary or desirable to promote effective execution of the program.
Congress shortly enacted legislation which, as we
pointed out in Hirabayashiv. United States, supra,ratified
and confirmed Executive Order No. 9066. See 320 U. S.
pp.87-91. It did so by the Act of March 21,1942 (56 Stat.
173) which provided:
"That whoever shall enter, remain in, leave, or commit
any act in.any military area or military zone prescribed,
under the authority of an Executive order of the President,
by the Secretary of War, or by any military commander
designated by the Secretary of War, contrary to the restrictions applicable to any such area or zone or contrary
to the order of the Secretary of War or any such military
commander, shall, if it appears that he knew or should

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

have known of the existence and extent of the restrictions
or order and that his act was in violation thereof, be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be liable to a
fine of not to exceed $5,000 or to imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both, for each offense."
Beginning on March 24, 1942, a series of 108 Civilian
Exclusion Orders 1were issued by General De Witt pursuant to Public Proclamation Nos. 1 and 2. Appellant's
exclusion was effected by Civilian Exclusion Order No. 52,
dated May 7, 1942. It ordered that "all persons of Japanese ancestry, both alien and non-alien" be excluded
from Sacramento, California,2 beginning at noon on May
16, 1942. Appellant was evacuated to the Sacramento
Assembly Center on May 15, 1942, and was transferred
from there to the Tule Lake Relocation Center on June
19, 1942.
'Civilian Exclusion Orders Nos. 1 to 99 were ratified by General
De Witt's Public Proclamation No. 7 of June 8, 1942 (7 Fed. Reg.
4498) and Nos. 100 to 108 were ratified by Public Proclamation No.
11 of August 18, 1942. 7 Fed. Reg. 6703.
2By Public Proclamation No. 4, dated March 27, 1942 (7 Fed.
Reg. 2601) General De Witt had ordered that all persons of Japanese ancestry who were within the limits of Military Area No. 1
(which included the City of Sacramento) were prohibited "from
leaving that area for any purpose until and to the extent that a
future proclamation or order of this headquarters shall so permit
or direct."
Prior to this Proclamation a system of voluntary migration had
been in force under which 4,889 persons left the military areas under
their own arrangements. Final Report, Japanese Evacuation from
the West Coast (1943), p. 109. The following reasons are given for
terminating that program:
"Essentially, the objective was twofold. First, it was to alleviate tension and prevent incidents involving violence between Japanese
migrants and others. Second, it was to insure an orderly, supervised, and thoroughly controlled evacuation with adequate provision
for the protection of the persons of evacuees as well as their property."
Final Report, 8upra, p. 105.

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

Opinion of the Court.

On May 19, 1942, General De Witt promulgated
Civilian Restrictive Order No. 1 (8 Fed. Reg. 982) and
on June 27, 1942, Public Proclamation No. 8. 7 Fed.
Reg. 8346. These prohibited evacuees from leaving Assembly Centers or Relocation Centers except pursuant

to an authorization from General De Witt's headquarters.
Public Proclamation No. 8 recited that "the present situ-

ation within these military areas requires as a matter of
military necessity" that the evacuees be removed to "Re-

location Centers for their relocation, maintenance and
supervision," that those Relocation Centers be designated

as War Relocation Project Areas, and that restrictions on
the rights of the evacuees to enter, remain in, or leave
such areas be promulgated. These restrictions were applicable to the Relocation Centers within the Western
Defense Command I and included both of those in which

appellant has been confined-Tule Lake Relocation Center at Newell, California and Central Utah Relocation
Center at Topaz, Utah. And Public Proclamation No. 8
purported to make any person who was subject to its

provisions and who failed to conform to it liable to the
penalties prescribed by the Act of March 21, 1942.
3 Six War Relocation Centers and Project Areas were established
within and four outside the Western Defense Command. See Final
Report, supra, note 2, Part VI. Each one which was outside the
Western Defense Command was designated as a military area by
the Secretary of War in Public Proclamation No. WD1, dated
August 13, 1942. That proclamation provided that all persons of
Japanese ancestry in those areas were required to remain there
unless written authorization to leave was obtained from the Secretary of War or the Director of the War Relocation Authority. 7 Fed.
Reg. 6593. It recited that the United States was subject to "espionage and acts of sabotage, thereby requiring the adoption of military
measures necessary to establish safeguards against such enemy operations emanating from within as well as from without the national
boundaries." And it also purported to make any person who was
subject to its provisions and who failed to obey it liable to the penalties prescribed by the Act of March 21, 1942.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

By letter of August 11, 1942, General De Witt authorized the War Relocation Authority " to issue permits for
persons to leave these areas. By virtue of that delegation ' and the authority conferred by Executive Order No.
9102, the War Relocation Authority was given control
over the ingress and egress of evacuees from the Relocation
Centers where Mitsuye Endo was confined. 6
4 The letter of August 11, 1942, is printed in the Final Report, supra,
note 2, p. 530. It recited that the delegation of authority was made
pursuant to provisions of Public Proclamation No. 8, dated June 27,
1942. Later General De Witt described the supervision of Relocation
Centers by the War Relocation Authority as follows:
"The initial problem was one of security-the security of the Pacific
Coast. The problem was met by evacuation to Assembly Centers followed by a transfer to Relocation Centers. The latter phase-construction, supply, equipment of Relocation Centers and the transfer
of evacuees from Assembly to Relocation Centers had been accomplished by the Army. (While the Commanding General was made
responsible 'for this latter phase of the program, in so doing, he was
accomplishing a mission of the War Relocation Authority rather than
strictly an Army mission.) The second problem-national in scopeessentially a social-economic problem, was primarily for solution by
the War Relocation Authority, an agency expressly created for that
purpose."
Final Report, supra, note 2, p. 246.
On February 16, 1944, the President by Executive Order No. 9423
transferred the War Relocation Authority to the Department of the
Interior. 9 Fed. Reg. 1903. The Secretary of the Interior by Administrative Order No. 1922, dated February 16, 1944, authorized
the Director to perform under the Secretary's supervision and direction the functions transferred to the Department by Executive Order No. 9423.
5 And see the delegation of authority contained in the Secretary of
War's Proclamation WD1 of August 13, 1942, supra,note 3, respecting
Relocation Centers outside the Western Defense Command.
6 The Commanding General retained exclusive jurisdiction over the
release of evacuees for the purpose of employment, resettlement, or
residence within Military Area No. 1 and the California portion of
Military Area No. 2. See Final Report, supra, note 2, p. 242. As to
the Relocation Centers situated within the evacuated zone, the Com-

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

291

Opinion of the Court.

The program of the War Relocation Authority is said to
have three main features: (1) the maintenance of Relocation Centers as interim places of residence for evacuees; (2) the segregation of loyal from disloyal evacuees;
(3) the continued detention of the disloyal and so far as
possible the relocation of the loyal in selected communities.' In connection with the latter phase of its work the
War Relocation Authority established a procedure for obtaining leave from Relocation Centers. That procedure,
so far as indefinite leave 8 is concerned, presently provides ' as follows:
manding General regulated "the conditions of travel and movement
through the area." Id.
"The Commanding General recognized fully that one of the principal responsibilities of War Relocation Authority was properly to
control ingress and egress at Relocation Centers. The exercise of
such control by Army authorities would have been tantamount to administering the Centers themselves. While the Commanding General retained exclusive control to regulate and prohibit the entry or
movement of any Japanese in the evacuated areas, he delegated fully
the authority and responsibility to determine entry to and departure
from the Center proper." Id.
7 The functioning of Relocation Centers is described in the Final
Report, supra, note 2, Part VI and in Segregation of Loyal and Disloyal Japanese in Relocation Centers, Sen. Doe. No. 96, 78th Cong.,
1st Sess., pp. 4-25.
8Provision was also made for group-leave (or seasonal-work leave)
and short term leave not to exceed 60 days. See Sen. Doe. No. 96,
supra,note 7, p. 17.
9 The first leave procedure was contained in Administrative Instruction No. 22, dated July 20, 1942. It provided in short that any citizen of Japanese ancestry who had never resided or been educated in
Japan could apply for a permit to leave the Relocation Center if he
could show that he had a specific job opportunity at a designated place
outside the Relocation Center and outside the Western Defense Command. Every permittee was said to remain in the "constructive
custody" of the military commander in whose jurisdiction the Relocation Center was located. The permit could be revoked by the Director and the permittee required to return to the Relocation Center

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Application for leave clearance is required. An investigation of the applicant is made for the purpose of ascertaining "the probable effect upon the war program and
upon the public peace and security of issuing indefinite
leave" to the applicant." The grant of leave clearance
does not authorize departure from the Relocation Center.
Application for indefinite leave must also be made. Indefinite leave may be granted under 14 specified conditions.1 For example, it may be granted (1) where the
applicant proposes to accept an employment offer or an
offer of support that has been investigated and approved
by the Authority; or (2) where the applicant does not intend to work but has "adequate financial resources to take
care of himself" and a Relocation Officer has investigated
and approved "public sentiment at his proposed destination," or (3) where the applicant has made arrangements
to live at a hotel or in a private home approved by a Reloif the Director found that the revocation was necessary "in the public
interest." The Regulations of September 26, 1942, provided more
detailed procedures for obtaining leave. See 7 Fed. Reg. 7656. Administrative Instruction No. 22 was revised November 6, 1942. It
was superseded as a supplement to the Regulations by the Handbook
of July 20, 1943. The Regulations of September 26, 1942 were revised January 1, 1944. See 9 Fed. Reg. 154.
10 Handbook, § 60.6.6. Nine factors are specified each of which is
"regarded by intelligence agencies as sufficient to warrant a recommendation that leave clearance be denied unless there is an adequate
explanation." § 60.10.2. These include, among others, a failure or
refusal to swear unqualified allegiance to the United States and to
forswear any form of allegiance to the Japanese Emperor or any other
foreign government, power, or organization; a request for repatriation or expatriation whether or not subsequently retracted; military
training in Japan; employment on Japanese naval vessels; three
trips to Japan after the age of six, except in the case of seamen whose
trips were confined to ports of call; an organizer, agent, member, or
contributor to specified organizations which intelligence agencies esider subversive.
11 Handbook, § 60.4.3.

EX PARTE ENDO.
Opinion of the Court.

283

cation Officer while arranging for employment; or (4)
where the applicant proposes to accept employment by a

federal or local governmental agency; or (5) where the
applicant is going to live with designated classes of relatives.

But even if an applicant meets those requirements, no
leave will issue when the proposed place of residence or
employment is within a locality where it has been ascertained that "community sentiment is unfavorable" or
when the applicant plans to go to an area which has been
closed by the Authority to the issuance of indefinite leave."
Nor will such leave issue if the area where the applicant
plans to reside or work is one which has not been cleared

for relocation. 3 Moreover, the applicant agrees to give
the Authority prompt notice of any change of employment
or residence. And the indefinite leave which is granted
does not permit entry into a prohibited military area, including those from which these people were evacuated."

Mitsuye Endo made application for leave clearance on
February 19, 1943, after the petition was filed in the Dis12
3

Id.

Id. The War Relocation Authority also recommends communities in which an evacuee will be accepted, renders aid in finding employment opportunities, and provides cash grants, if needed, to assist
the evacuee in reaching a specified destination and in becoming established there. The Authority has established eight area offices and
twenty-six district offices to help carry out the relocation program.
14 See. 60.4.8 of the Handbook provides:
"Before any indefinite leave permitting any entry into or travel in
a prohibited military area may issue, a written pass or authorization
shall be procured for the applicant from the appropriate military
authorities and an escort shall be provided if required by the military authorities. Such pass or authorization may be procured
through the Assistant Director in San Francisco, or in the case of the
Manzanar Relocation Center through the commanding officer of the
military police at the center to the extent authorized by the Western
Defense Command."

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

trict Court. Leave clearance 1 was granted her on August 16, 1943. But she made no application for indefinite
leave."
Her petition for a writ of habeas corpus alleges that she
is a loyal and law-abiding citizen of the United States,
that no charge has been made against her, that she is
being unlawfully detained, and that she is confined in the
Relocation Center under armed guard and held there
against her will.
It is conceded by the Department of Justice and by the
War Relocation Authority that appellant is a loyal and
law-abiding citizen. They make no claim that she is
detained on any charge or that she is even suspected of
disloyalty. Moreover, they do not contend that she may
. 15

The leave clearance stated that it did not authorize departure

from the Relocation Center. It added:
"You are eligible for indefinite leave for the purpose of employment
or residence in the Eastern Defense Command as well as in other
areas; provided the provisions of Administrative Instruction No.
22, Rev., are otherwise complied with. The Provost Marshal General's Dept. of the War Department has determined that you, Endo
Mitsuye are not at this time eligible for employment in plants and
facilities vital to the war effort."
16 The form of a citizen's indefinite leave is as follows:
"This is to certify that ................
a United States citizen,
who has submitted to me sufficient proof of such citizenship, residing within ............
Relocation Area, is allowed to leave such
area on ............
19.., and subject to the terms of the regulations of the War Relocation Authority relating to the issuance of
leave for departure from a relocation area and subject to restrictions
ordered by the United States Army, and subject to any special
conditions or restrictions set forth on the reverse side hereof, to
enjoy leave of indefinite duration."
One of the grounds given by the District Court for denial of the
petition for writ of habeas corpus was the failure of appellant to
exhaust her administrative remedies. The Solicitor General and
the War Relocation Authority do not invoke that rule here, since
the issue which appellant poses is the validity of the regulations
under which the administrative remedy is prescribed.

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

295

Opinion of the Court.

be held any longer in the Relocation Center. They concede that it is beyond the power of the War Relocation
Authority to detain citizens against whom no charges of
disloyalty or subversiveness have been made for a period
longer than that necessary to separate the loyal from the
disloyal and to provide the necessary guidance for relocation. But they maintain that detention for an additional period after leave clearance has been granted is
an essential step in the evacuation program. Reliance
for that conclusion is placed on the following circumstances.
When compulsory evacuation from the West Coast was
decided upon, plans for taking care of the evacuees after
their detention in the Assembly Centers, to which they
were initially removed, remained to be determined. On
April 7, 1942, the Director of the Authority held a conference in Salt Lake City with various state and federal
officials including the Governors of the intermountain
states. "Strong opposition was expressed to any type of
unsupervised relocation and some of the Governors refused to be responsible for maintenance of law and order
unless evacuees brought into their States were kept under
constant military surveillance." 17 Sen. Doc. No. 96,
supra, note 7, p. 4. As stated by General De Witt in his
report to the Chief of Staff:
"Essentially, military necessity required only that the
Japanese population be removed from the coastal area
and dispersed in the interior, where the danger of action
in concert during any attempted enemy raids along the
coast, or in advance thereof as preparation for a full scale
attack, would be eliminated. That the 'evacuation program necessarily and ultimately developed into one of
complete Federal supervision, was due primarily to the
17Cf. the account of the meeting by General De Witt in the Final
Report, supra, note 2, pp. 243-244.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

fact that the interior states would not accept an uncontrolled Japanese migration."
Final Report, supra, note 2, pp. 43-44. The Authority
thereupon abandoned plans for assisting groups of evacuees in private colonization and temporarily put to one
side plans for aiding the evacuees in obtaining private
employment. 8 As an alternative the Authority "concentrated on establishment of Government-operated
centers with sufficient capacity and facilities to accommodate the entire evacuee population." Sen. Doc. No.
96, supra, note 7, p. 4. Accordingly, it undertook to care
for the basic needs of these people in the Relocation Centers, to promote as rapidly as possible the permanent
resettlement of as many as possible in normal communities, and to provide indefinitely for those left at the Relocation Centers. An effort was made to segregate the
loyal evacuees from the others. The leave program
which we have discussed was put into operation and the
resettlement program commenced.'
It is argued that such a planned and orderly relocation
was essential to the success of the evacuation program;
that but for such supervision there might have been a
18And see the Fourth Interim Report of the Tolan Committee,
H. R. Rep. No. 2124, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 18.
19 There were 108,503 evacuees transferred to Relocation Centers.
Final Report, supra, note 2, p. 279. As of July 29, 1944, there were
28,911 on indefinite leave and 61,002 in the Relocation Centers other
than Tule Lake. It was sought to assemble at Tule Lake those
whose disloyalty was deemed to be established and those who persisted in a refusal to say .they would be willing to serve in the armed
forces of the United States on combat duty wherever ordered and to
swear unqualified allegiance to the United States and forswear any
form of allegiance to the Japanese Emperor or any other foreign
government, power or organization. This group, together with
minor children, totaled 18,684 on July 29, 1944. And see Hearings,
Subcommittee on the National War Agencies Appropriation Bill for
1945, p. 611.

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

Opinion of the Court.

dangerously disorderly migration of ,unwanted people to
unprepared communities; that unsupervised evacuation
might have resulted in hardship and disorder; that the
success of the evacuation program was thought to require
the knowledge that the federal government was maintaining control over the evacuated population except as
the release of individuals could be effected consistently
with their own peace and well-being and that of the nation;
that although community hostility towards the evacuees
has diminished, it has not disappeared and the continuing
control of the Authority over the relocation process is essential to the success of the evacuation program. It is
argued that supervised relocation, as the chosen method
of terminating the evacuation, is the final step in the entire process and is a consequence of the first step taken.
It is conceded that appellant's detention pending compliance with the leave regulations is not directly connected
with the prevention of espionage and sabotage at the
present time. But it is argued that Executive Order No.
9102 confers power to make regulations necessary and
proper for controlling situations created by the exercise
of the powers expressly conferred for protection against
espionage and sabotage. The leave regulations are said
to fall within that category.
First. We are of the view that Mitsuye Endo should
be given her liberty. In reaching that conclusion we do
not come to the underlying constitutional issues which
have been argued. For we conclude that, whatever power
the War Relocation Authority may have to detain other
classes of citizens, it has no authority to subject citizens
who are concededly loyal to its leave procedure.
It should be noted at the outset that we do not have
here a question such as was presented in Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, or in Ex parte Quirin,317 U. S. 1, where the
jurisdiction of military tribunals to try persons according
to the law of war was challenged in habeas corpus pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

ceedings. Mitsuye Endo is detained by a civilian agency,
the War Relocation Authority, not by the military. Moreover, the evacuation program was not left exclusively to
the military; the Authority was given a large measure of
responsibility for its execution and Congress made its
enforcement subject to civil penalties by the Act of March
21, 1942. Accordingly, no questions of military law are
involved.
Such power of detention as the Authority has stems from
Executive Order No. 9066. That order is the source of the
authority 20 delegated by General De Witt in his letter of
August 11, 1942. And Executive Order No. 9102 which
created the War Relocation Authority purported to do no
more than to implement the program authorized by Executive Order No. 9066.
We approach the construction of Executive Order No.
9066 as we would approach the construction of legislation
in this field. That Executive Order must indeed be considered along with the Act of March 21, 1942, which ratified and confirmed it (Hirabayashiv. UnitedStates, supra,
pp. 87-91) as the Order and the statute together laid such
basis as there is for participation by civil agencies of the
federal government in the evacuation program. Broad
powers frequently granted to the President or other executive officers by Congress so that they may deal with the
exigencies of wartime problems have been sustained.2 1
And the Constitution when it committed to the Executive
and to Congress the exercise of the war power necessarily
gave them wide scope for the exercise of judgment and
Insofar as Public Proclamation No. WD1, dated August 13,
1942, supra, note 3, might be deemed relevant, it is not applicable here
since the Relocation Centers with which we are presently concerned
were within the Western Defense Command.
21 See, for example, United States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U.
S. 1, 12; United States v. Curtiss-Wright Corp., 299 U. S. 304; Yakus
v. United States, 321 U. S. 414; Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503.
20

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

Opinion of the Court.

discretion so that war might be waged effectively and successfully. Hirabayashi v. United States, supra, p. 93.
At the same time, however, the Constitution is as specific
in its enumeration of many of the civil rights of the individual as it is in its enumeration of the powers of his government. Thus it has prescribed procedural safeguards
surrounding the arrest, detention and conviction of individuals. Some of these are contained in the Sixth Amendment, compliance with which is essential if convictions are
to be sustained. Tot v. United States, 319 U. S. 463. And
the Fifth Amendment provides that no person shall be deprived of liberty (as well as life or property) without due
process of law. Moreover, as a further safeguard against
invasion of the basic civil rights of the individual it is
provided in Art. I, § 9 of the Constitution that "The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended,
unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public
Safety may require it." See Ex parte Milligan, supra.
We mention these constitutional provisions not to stir
the constitutional issues which have been axgued at the
bar but to indicate the approach which we think should
be made to an Act of Congress or an order of the Chief
Executive that touches the sensitive area of rights specifically guaranteed by the Constitution. This Court has
quite consistently given a narrower scope for the operation of the presumption of constitutionality when legislation appeared on its face to violate a specific prohibition
of the Constitution.2 We have likewise favored that
interpretation of legislation which gives it the greater
chance of surviving the test of constitutionality13 Those
Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S. 359; Lovell v. Griffin, 303
U. S. 444; Hague v. C. 1. 0., 307 U. S. 496; Schneider v. State, 308
U. S. 147; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296.
23 United States v. Shreveport Grain & Elevator Co., 287 U. S. 77,
82; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Oregon-Washington R. & N.
Co., 288 U. S. 14, 40; Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297
22

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

analogies are suggestive here. We must assume that the
Chief Executive and members of Congress, as well as the
courts, are sensitive to and respectful of the liberties of the
citizen. In interpreting a wartime measure we must assume that their purpose was to allow for the greatest possible accommodation between those liberties and the
exigencies of war. We must assume, when asked to find
implied powers in a grant of legislative or executive authority, that the law makers intended to place no greater
restraint on the citizen than was clearly and unmistakably
indicated by the language they used.
The Act of March 21, 1942, was a war measure. The
House Report (H. Rep. No. 1906, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 2) stated, "The necessity for this legislation arose from
the fact that the safe conduct of the war requires the
fullest possible protection against either espionage or
sabotage to national defense material, national defense
premises, and national defense utilities." That was the
precise purpose of Executive Order No. 9066, for, as we
have seen, it gave as the reason for the exclusion of persons from prescribed military areas the protection of
such property "against espionage and against sabotage."
And Executive Order No. 9102 which established the War
Relocation Authority did so, as we have noted, "in order
to provide for the removal from designated areas of persons whose removal is necessary in the interests of national
security." The purpose and objective of the Act and of
these orders are plain. Their single aim was the protection of the war effort against espionage and sabotage. It
is in light of that one objective that the powers conferred
by the orders must be construed.
Neither the Act nor the orders use the language of
detention. The Act says that no one shall "enter, reU. S. 288, 348; Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1,
30; Anniston Mfg. Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 337, 351-352.

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

Opinion of the Court.

main in, leave, or commit any act" in the prescribed military areas contrary to the applicable restrictions. Executive Order No. 9066 subjects the right of any person "to
enter, remain in, or leave" those prescribed areas to such
restrictions as the military may impose. And apart from
those restrictions the Secretary of War is only given authority to afford the evacuees "transportation, food,
shelter, and other accommodations." Executive Order
No. 9102 authorizes and directs the War Relocation Authority "to formulate and effectuate a program for the
removal" of the persons covered by Executive Order No.
9066 from the prescribed military areas and "for their
relocation, maintenance, and supervision." And power is
given the Authority to make regulations "necessary or
desirable to promote effective execution of such program."
Moreover, unlike the, case of curfew regulations (Hirabayashiv. United States, supra), the legislative history of
the Act of March 21, 1942, is silent on detention. And
that silence may have special significance in view of the
fact that detention in Relocation Centers was no part of
the original program of evacuation but developed later
to meet what seemed to the officials in charge to be mounting hostility to the evacuees on the part of the communities where they sought to go.
We do not mean to imply that detention in connection
with no phase of the evacuation program would be lawful.
The fact that the Act and the orders are silent on detention does not of course mean that any power to detain
is lacking. Some such power might indeed be necessary
to the successful operation of the evacuation program.
At least we may so assume. Moreover, we may assume
for the purposes of this case that initial detention in Relocation Centers was authorized. But we stress the silence
of the legislative history and of the Act and the Executive
Orders on the power to detain to emphasize that any such
authority which exists must be implied. If there is to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

the greatest possible accommodation of the liberties of the
citizen with this war measure, any such implied power
must be narrowly confined to the precise purpose of the
evacuation program.
A citizen who is concededly loyal presents no problem of
espionage or sabotage. Loyalty is a matter of the heart
and mind, not of race, creed, or color. He who is loyal is
by definition not a spy or a saboteur. When the power
to detain is derived from the power to protect the war effort against espionage and sabotage, detention which has
no relationship to that objective is unauthorized.
Nor may the power to detain an admittedly loyal citizen or to grant him a conditional release be implied as a
useful or convenient step in the evacuation program, whatever authority might be implied in case of those whose
loyalty was not conceded or established. If we assume
(as we do) that the original evacuation was justified, its
lawful character was derived from the fact that it was an
espionage and sabotage measure, not that there was community hostility to this group of American citizens. The
evacuation program rested explicitly on the former ground
not on the latter as the underlying legislation shows. The
authority to detain a citizen or to grant him a conditional
release as protection against espionage or sabotage is exhausted at least when his loyalty is conceded. If we held
that the authority to detain continued thereafter, we
would transform an espionage or sabotage measure into
something else. That was not done by Executive Order
No. 9066 or by the Act of March 21, 1942, which ratified
it. What they did not do we cannot do. Detention
which furthered the campaign against espionage and
sabotage would be one thing. But detention which has
no relationship to that campaign is of a distinct character.
Community hostility even to loyal evacuees may have
been (and perhaps still is) a serious problem. But if au-

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

Opinion of the Court.

thority for their custody and supervision is to be sought
on that ground, the Act of March 21, 1942, Executive Order No. 9066, and Executive Order No. 9102, offer no
support. And none other is advanced. ' To read them
that broadly would be to assume that the Congress and the
President intended that this discriminatory action should
24 It is argued, to be sure, that there has been Congressional ratification of the detention of loyal evacuees under the leave regulations of
the Authority through the appropriation of sums for the expenses of the
Authority. 57 Stat. 533, P. L. 139, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., approved July
12, 1943 and 58 Stat. 545, P. L. 372, 78th Cong., 2d Sess., approved June
28, 1944. It is pointed out that the regulations and procedures of the
Authority were disclosed in reports to the Congress and in Congressional hearings. See, for example, Sen. Doc. No. 96, supra, note 7;
Report and Minority Views of the Special Committee on Un-American
Activities on Japanese War Relocation Centers, H. Rep. No. 717, 78th
Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 23-26; Hearings, Subcommittee of the Senate
Military Affairs Committee on S. 444, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 45-46;
Japanese War Relocation Centers, Subcommittee Report on S. 444
and S. 101 and 111, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 4-5 et seq. And it is
shown that the leave program of the Authority was mentioned both
in the House and Senate committee hearings on the 1944 Appropriation Act (Hearings, Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, National War Agencies Appropriation Bill for 1944,
78th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 698, 699, 710; Hearings of the Senate Subcommittee on Appropriations, National War Agencies Appropriation Bill for 1944, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 382) and on the floor of the
House prior to passage of the 1944 Act. 89 Cong. Rec. pp. 5983-5985.
Congress may of course do by ratification what it might have authorized. Swayne & Hoyt v. United States, 300 U. S. 297, 301-302.
And ratification may be effected through appropriation acts.
Isbrandtsen-MollerCo. v. United States, 300 U. S. 139, 147; Brooks v.
Dewar, 313 U. S. 354, 361. But the appropriation must plainly show
a purpose to bestow the precise authority which is claimed. We can
hardly deduce such a purpose here where a lump appropriation was
made for the overall program of the Authority and no sums were earmarked for the single phase of the total program which is here involved. Congress may support the effort to take care of these evacuees without ratifying every phase of the program.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

be taken against these people wholly on account of their
ancestry even though the government conceded their
loyalty to this country. We cannot make such an assumption. As the President has said of these loyal citizens:
"Americans of Japanese ancestry, like those of many other
ancestries, have shown that they can, and want to, accept
our institutions and work loyally with the rest of us, making their own valuable contribution to the national wealth
and well-being. In vindication of the very ideals for
which we are fighting this war it is important to us to
maintain a high standard of fair, considerate, and equal
treatment for the people of this minority as of all other
minorities." Sen. Doc. No. 96, supra, note 7, p. 2.
Mitsuye Endo is entitled to an unconditional release by
the War Relocation Authority.
Second. The question remains whether the District
Court has jurisdiction to grant the writ of habeas corpus
because of the fact that while the case was pending in the
Circuit Court of Appeals appellant was moved from the
Tule Lake Relocation Center in the Northern District of
California where she was originally detained to the Central
Utah Relocation Center in a different district and circuit.
That question is not colored by any purpose to effectuate a removal in evasion of the habeas corpus proceedings. It appears that appellant's removal to Utah was
part of a general segregation program involving many of
these people and was in no way related to this pending
case. Moreover, there is no suggestion that there is no
one within the jurisdiction of the District Court who is
responsible for the detention of appellant and who would
be an appropriate respondent. We are indeed advised by
the Acting Secretary of the Interior 21 that if the writ
25 In a letter dated October 13, 1944 to the Solicitor General and
filed here.

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

Opinion of the Court.

issues and is directed to the Secretary of the Interior or
any official of the War Relocation Authority (including an
assistant director whose office is at San Francisco, which
is in the jurisdiction of the District Court), the corpus of
appellant will be produced and the court's order complied
with in all respects. Thus it would seem that the case is
not moot.
In United States ex rel. Innes v. Crystal, 319 U. S. 755,
the relator challenged a judgment of court martial by
habeas corpus. The District Court denied his petition
and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that order.
After that decision and before his petition for certiorari
was filed here, he was removed from the custody of the
Army to a federal penitentiary in a different district and
circuit. The sole respondent was the commanding officer.
Only an order directed to the warden of the penitentiary
could effectuate his discharge and the warden as well as
the prisoner was outside the territorial jurisdiction of the
District Court. We therefore held the cause moot.
There is no comparable situation here.
The fact that no respondent was ever served with
process or appeared in the proceedings is not important.
The United States resists the issuance of a writ. A cause
exists in that state of the proceedings and an appeal lies
from denial of a writ without the appearance of a respondent. Ex parte Milligan, supra, p. 112; Ex parte
Quirin, 317 U. S. 1, 24.
Hence, so far as presently appears, the cause is not moot
and the District Court has jurisdiction to act unless the
physical presence of appellant in that district is essential.
We need not decide whether the presence of the person
detained within the territorial jurisdiction of the District
Court is prerequisite to filing a petition for a writ of habeas
corpus. See In re Boles, 48 F. 75; Ex parte Gouyet, 175
F. 230, 233; United States v. Day, 50 F. 2d 816, 817;

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

United States v. Schlotfeldt, 136 F. 2d 935, 940. But see
Tippitt v. Wood, 140 F. 2d 689, 693. We only hold that
the District Court acquired jurisdiction in this case and
that the removal of Mitsuye Endo did not cause it to lose
jurisdiction where a person in whose custody she is remains within the district.
There are expressions in some of the cases which indicate that the place of confinement must be within the
court's territorial jurisdiction in order to enable it to issue
the writ. See In re Boles, supra, p. 76; Ex parte Gouyet,
supra; United States v. Day, supra; United States v.
Schlotfeldt, supra. But we are of the view that the court
may act if there is a respondent within reach of its process
who has custody of the petitioner. As Judge Cooley stated
in In the Matter of Samuel W. Jackson, 15 Mich. 417,
439-440:
"The important fact to be observed in regard to the
mode of procedure upon this writ is, that it is directed to,
and served upon, not the person confined, but his jailer.
It does not reach the former except through the latter.
The officer or person who serves it does not unbar the
prison doors, and set the prisoner free, but,the court relieves him by compelling the oppressor to release his constraint. The whole force of the writ is spent upon the
respondent;"
And see United States v. Davis, 5 Cranch C. C. 622, Fed.
Cas. No. 14,926; Ex parte Fong Yim, 134 F. 938; Ex parte
Ng Quong Ming, 135 F. 378, 379; Sanders v. Allen, 100 F.
2d 717, 719; Rivers v. Mitchell, 57 Ia. 193, 195, 10 N. W.
626; People v. New York Asylum, 57 App. Div. 383, 384,
68 N. Y. S. 279; People v. New York Asylum, 58 App. Div.
133, 134, 68 N. Y. S.656. The statute upon which the
jurisdiction of the District Court in habeas corpus proceedings rests (Rev. Stat. § 752, 28 U. S. C. § 452) gives it
power "to grant writs of habeas corpus for the purpose of

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

MURPHY, J., eoncurring.

an inquiry into the cause of restraint of liberty."2 That
objective may be in no way impaired or defeated by the
removal of the prisoner from the territorial jurisdiction of
the District Court. That end may be served and the decree of the court made effective if a respondent who has
custody of the prisoner is within reach of the court's process even though the prisoner has been removed from the
district since the suit was begun."
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the District Court for proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

concurring.

I join in the opinion of the Court, but I am of the view
that detention in Relocation Centers of persons of Japanese ancestry regardless of loyalty is not only unauthorized by Congress or the Executive but is another example
of the unconstitutional resort to racism inherent in the
entire evacuation program. As stated more fully in my
The entire section provides:
"The several justices of the Supreme Court and the several judges
of the circuit courts of appeal and of the district courts, within their
respective jurisdictions, shall have power to grant writs of habeas
corpus for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of restraint of
liberty. A circuit judge shall have the same power to grant writs of
habeas corpus within his circuit, that a district judge has within his
district; and the order of the circuit judge shall be entered in the
records of the district court of the district wherein the restraint complained of is had."
The last clause was added by § 6 of the Act of February 13, 1925, 43
Stat. 940. But we find no indication that it was added to change the
scope of jurisdiction in habeas corpus proceedings. On its face it is
no more than a recording requirement.
27 Cf. Rule 45 (1) of this Court which provides: "Pending review
of a decision refusing a writ of habeas corpus, the custody of the
prisoner shall not be disturbed."
26

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS, J., concurring.

323 U.S.

dissenting opinion in Korematsu v. United States, ante,
p. 233, racial discrimination of this nature bears no reasonable relation to military necessity and is utterly foreign
to the ideals and traditions of the American people.
Moreover, the Court holds that Mitsuye Endo is entitled to an unconditional release by the War Relocation
Authority. It appears that Miss Endo desires to return
to Sacramento, California, from which Public Proclamations Nos. 7 and 11, as well as Civilian Exclusion Order No.
52, still exclude her. And it would seem to me that the
"unconditional" release to be given Miss Endo necessarily
implies "the right to pass freely from state to state," including the right to move freely into California. Twining
v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 97; Crandall v. Nevada, 6
Wall. 35. If, as I believe, the military orders excluding
her from California were invalid at the time they were
issued, they are increasingly objectionable at this late date,
when the threat of invasion of the Pacific Coast and the
fears of sabotage and espionage have greatly diminished.
For the Government to suggest under these circumstances
that the presence of Japanese blood in a loyal American
citizen might be enough to warrant her exclusion from a
place where she would otherwise have a right to go is a
position I cannot sanction.
MR.JUSTICE

ROBERTS.

I concur in the result but I cannot agree with the reasons stated in the opinion of the court for reaching that
result.
As in Korematsu v. United States, ante, p. 214, the court
endeavors to avoid constitutional issues which are necessarily involved. The opinion, at great length, attempts
to show that neither the executive nor the legislative arm
of the Government authorized the detention of the relator.
1. With respect to the executive, it is said that none of
the executive orders in question specifically referred to
detention and the court should not imply any authoriza-

EX PARTE ENDO.
283

ROBERTS,

J., concurring.

tion of it. This seems to me to ignore patent facts. As
the opinion discloses, the executive branch of the Government not only was aware of what was being done but in
fact that which was done was formulated in regulations
and in a so-called handbook open to the public. I had
supposed that where thus overtly and avowedly a department of the Government adopts a course of action under a
series of official regulations the presumption is that, in this
way, the department asserts its belief in the legality and
validity of what it is doing. I think it inadmissible to
suggest that some inferior public servant exceeded the authority granted by executive order in this case. Such a
basis of decision will render easy the evasion of law and
the violation of constitutional rights, for when conduct is
called in question the obvious response will be that, however much the superior executive officials knew, understood, and approved the conduct of their subordinates,
those subordinates in fact lacked a definite mandate so to
act. It is to hide one's head in the sand to assert that the
detention of relator resulted from an excess of authority by
subordinate officials.
2. As the opinion states, the Act of March 21, 1942, said
nothing of detention or imprisonment, nor did Executive
Order No. 9066 of date February 19, 1942, but I cannot
agree that when Congress made appropriations to the Relocation Authority, having before it the reports, the testimony at committee hearings, and the full details of the
procedure of the Relocation Authority were exposed in
Government publications, these appropriations were not
a ratification and an authorization of what was being done.
The cases cited in footnote No. 24 of the opinion do not
justify any such conclusion. The decision now adds an
element never before thought essential to congressional
ratification, namely, that if Congress is to ratify by appropriation any part of the programme of an executive
agency the bill must include a specific item referring to
that portion of the programme. In other words, the court

OCTOBER TERM, 194.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

will not assume that Congress ratified the procedure of
the authorities in this case in the absence of some such
item as this in the appropriation bill:-"For the administration of the conditional release and parole programme in
force in relocation centers." In the light of the knowledge
Congress had as to the details of the programme, I think
the court is unjustified in straining to conclude that Congress did not mean to ratify what was being done.
3. I conclude, therefore, that the court is squarely faced
with a serious constitutional question,-whether the relator's detention violated the guarantees of the Bill of
Rights of the federal Constitution and especially the guarantee of due process of law. There can be but one answer
to that question. An admittedly loyal citizen has been
deprived of her liberty for a period of years. Under the
Constitution she should be free to come and go as she
pleases. Instead, her liberty of motion and other innocent
activities have been prohibited and conditioned. She
should be discharged.
INDUSTRIAL ADDITION ASSOCIATION v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 118.

Argued December 13, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.

1. In § 1141 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to review of
decisions of the Tax Court, the terms "jurisdiction" and ."venue"
have their usually accepted meaning. P. 314.
2. By § 1141 (a) all of the Circuit Courts of Appeals and the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia are given
jurisdiction to review decisions of the Tax Court, that is, power to
act judicially upon a petition for review. P. 314.
3. By § 1141 (b) (1) one of the courts of appeals is designated as
the court of proper venue, that is, the place where the petition
will be heard. P. 314.

