WALLING v. HELMERICH & PAYNE.
Opinion of the Court.

WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND
HOUR DIVISION, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR,
v. HELMERICH & PAYNE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 27. Argued October 17, 1944.-Decided November 6, 1944.
1. Contracts of employment providing for the computation of compensation on the so-called Poxon or split-day plan, held not in
conformity with requirements of § 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act. Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624, distinguished. P. 39.
The vice of the split-day plan was that the contract regular
rate did not represent the rate which was actually paid for ordinary, non-overtime hours, nor did it allow extra compensation
to be paid for true overtime hours. It was derived not from the
actual hours and wages but from a mathematical formula designed
to perpetuate the pre-statutory wage scale.
2. A suit by the Administrator under the Fair Labor Standards Act
to enjoin an employer from use of contracts of employment providing for computation of compensation on the so-called split-day
plan, held not rendered moot by the employer's voluntary discontinuance of the use of such contracts. P. 43.
138 F. 2d 705, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 759, to review the affirmance, as
modified, of a judgment which, in a suit by the Administrator, sustained the validity of certain contracts of employment under the Fair Labor Standards Act.

Mr. Irving J. Levy, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Ralph F. Fuchs, Douglas B. Maggs, and Harry
M. Leet were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Eugene 0. Monnet, with whom Messrs. FrankSettle
and Sam Clammer were on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.

We are concerned here with the question whether certain provisions of employment contracts relating to the,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

computation and application of regular and overtime
wage rates conform to the requirements of § 7 (a) of the
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C.
§ 201 et seq.
Respondent is engaged in the production of oil and gas
for interstate commerce and its employees admittedly are
covered by the Act. Prior to October 24, 1938, the effective date of the Act, certain of respondent's employees
worked 8-, 10- and 12-hour daily shifts, or "tours," and
were paid a specified wage for each tour. These wages
were in excess of the minimum required by the Act, though
the number of tours per week would often cause an employee to work more than the maximum hours allowed
by the Act without overtime pay being required.
In order to maintain the same wage levels after the Act
became effective, respondent made new employment contracts with the employees in question whereby they received their wages under the so-called "Poxon" or splitday plan. This plan arbitrarily divided each regular tour
into two parts for purposes of calculating and applying
hourly wage rates. The first four hours of each 8-hour
tour, the first five hours of each 10-hour tour and the first
five hours of each 12-hour tour were assigned a specified
hourly rate described as the "base or regular rate." The
remaining hours in each tour were treated as "overtime"
and called for payment at one and one-half times the
"base or regular rate." The contracts then recited that
the "base rate" set forth "shall never apply to more than
40 hours in any work week."
These so-called "regular" and "overtime" hourly rates
were calculated so as to insure that the total wages for
each tour would continue the same as under the original
contracts,' thereby avoiding the necessity of increasing
1 Thus the rotary helpers employed by respondent formerly received $7 for each eight hour tour. Under the split-day plan, they
received a "regular rate" of 70 cents an hour for the first four hours

WALLING v. HELMERICH & PAYNE.
37

Opinion of the Court.

wages or decreasing hours of work as the statutory maximum workweek of 40 hours became effective.2 Only in
the extremely unlikely case where an employee's tours
totalled more than 80 hours in a week3 did he become
entitled to any pay in addition to the regular tour wages
that he would have received prior to the adoption of the
split-day plan. Until more than 80 hours had been
worked the plan operated so that the employee could not
be credited with more than 40 hours of "regular" work,
the remaining time being denominated "overtime."
Hence, since the wages under the old system and under
the split-day plan were identical, the original tour rates
could be used as the simple method of computing wages
for each pay period. The actual and regular workweek
was accordingly shorn of all significance.
The District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals
both held that the split-day plan of compensation, under
the decision of this Court in Walling v. Belo Corp., 316
U. S. 624, did not violate the provisions of § 7 (a) of the
Fair Labor Standards Act. We cannot agree.
Section 7 (a) limits to 40 a week the number of hours
that an employer may employ any of his employees subject to the Act, unless the employee receives compensation for his employment in excess of 40 hours at a rate
"not less than one and one-half times the regular rate at
which he is employed." The split-day plan here in issue
satisfies neither the purpose nor the mechanics of this
requirement.
of each tour and an "overtime" rate of $1.05 for each of the remaining
four hours. This totalled $7 for the tour.
2 During the first year after the effective date of the Act the maximum was 44 hours; during the second year 42 hours; and thereafter
40 hours.
3For an employee working on 12-hour tours, it was necessary to
work at least 96 hours per week before becoming entitled to increased
wages under the split-day plan.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S:

As we pointed out in Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel,
316 U. S. 572, 577-578, the Congressional purpose in enacting § 7 (a) was twofold: (1) to spread employment by
placing financial pressure on the employer through the
overtime pay requirement, see also Southland Gasoline
Co. v. Bayley, 319 U. S. 44, 48; and (2) to compensate
employees for the burden of a workweek in excess of the
hours fixed in the Act. Yet neither objective could be
attained under the split-day plan. It enabled respondent
to avoid paying real overtime wages for at least the first
40 hours worked in excess of the statutory maximum
workweek, thus negativing any possible effect such a payment might have had upon the spreading of employment.
And the plan was so designed as to deprive the employees
of their statutory right to receive for all hours worked
in excess of the first regular 40 hours one and one-half
times the actual regular rate. The statutory maximum
workweek of 40 hours was by contract twisted into an 80
hour maximum workweek. No plan so obviously inconsistent with the statutory purpose can lay a claim to
legality.
The split-day plan, moreover, violated the basic rules
for computing correctly the actual regular rate contemplated by § 7 (a). While the words "regular rate" are
not defined in the Act, they obviously mean the hourly
rate actually paid for the normal, non-overtime workweek. Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, supra. To. compute this regular rate for respondent's employees, assuming the same wages and tours, required only the simple
process of dividing the wages received for each tour by
the number of hours in that tour.' This regular rate was
'In this case the weekly wage divided by the number of hours
actually worked in the week would have yielded the same regular rate.
Under either computation, a rotary helper being paid $7 for each
eight-hour tour was receiving 87 cents per hour. This was his regular rate regardless of the number of tours per week. That rate was
applicable to the first 40 hours regularly worked, or to the first five

WALLING v. HELMERICH & PAYNE.
37

Opinion of the Court.

then applicable to the first 40 hours regularly worked on
the tours and the overtime rate (150% of the regular rate)
became effective as to all hours worked in excess of 40.
But respondent's plan made no effort to base the regular
rate upon the wages actually received or upon the hours
actually and regularly spent each week in working. Nor
did it attempt to apply the regular rate to the first 40
hours actually and regularly worked. Instead the plan
provided for a fictitious regular rate consisting of a figure
somewhat lower than the rate actually received. This
illusory rate was arbitrarily allocated to the first portion
of each day's regular labor; the latter portion was designated "overtime" and called for compensation at a rate
one and one-half times the fictitious regular rate. Thus
when an employee on regular eight-hour tours had actually worked 40 hours, respondent could point to the employee's contract and claim that he had worked only 20
"regular" hours and 20 "overtime" hours. Hence he was
entitled to no additional remuneration for work in excess
of 40 hours except in the unlikely situation, which never
in fact occurred, of his actually working more than 80
hours. The vice of respondent's plan lay in the fact that
the contract regular rate did not represent the rate which
was actually paid for ordinary, non-overtime hours, nor
did it allow extra compensation to be paid for true overtime hours. It was derived not from the actual hours and
wages but from ingenious mathematical manipulations,
with the sole purpose being to perpetuate the pre-statutory wage scale.5
tours. For all hours in excess of 40, the rotary helper was entitled
to one and one-half times that rate, or $1.311/4. We, of course, express
no opinion as to the proper computation of the regular rate under
other circumstances. Nor do we intend to indicate that the formula
we have used as satisfying the statutory requirements is the only
one which respondent could adopt as complying with them.
5 In paragraph 70 (4) of Interpretative Bulletin No. 4, as revised
in November, 1940, the Administrator expressed his opinion that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

It is no answer that the artificial regular rate was a
product of contract or that it was in excess of the statutory
minimum. The Act clearly contemplates the setting of
the regular rate in a bona fide manner through wage negotiation between employer and employee, provided that
the statutory minimum is respected. But this freedom
of contract does not include the right to compute the regular rate in a wholly unrealistic and artificial manner so
as to negate the statutory purposes. Even when wages
exceed the minimum prescribed by Congress, the parties
to the contract must respect the statutory policy of requiring the employer to pay one and one-half times the
regular hourly rate for all hours actually worked in excess
of 40. Any other conclusion in this case would exalt ingenuity over reality and would open the door to insidious
disregard of the rights protected by the Act.
Nothing in this Court's decision in Walling v. Belo
Corp., supra, sanctions the use of the split-day plan. The
controversy there centered about the question whether
the regular rate should be computed from the guaranteed
weekly wage or whether it should be identical with the
hourly rate set forth in the employment contract. There
was no question, as here, pertaining to the applicability
of the regular rate to the first 40 hours actually and regularly worked, with the overtime rate applying to all hours
worked in excess thereof.
One final point remains. Petitioner here filed a complaint in the District Court seeking, in part, an injunction
to compel respondent to cease its use of the split-day contracts. Two months after the complaint was filed, but
plan similar to that of respondent's did not conform to the Act.
While this opinion is not binding on the administration of the Act,
it does "carry persuasiveness as an expression of the view of those
experienced in the administration of the Act and acting with the
advice of a staff specializing in its interpretation and application."
Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572, 580-581, n. 17.

WALLING v. HELMERICH & PAYNE.
37

Opinion of the Court.

before the case came on for trial, respondent discontinued
the use of these contracts and substituted different compensation plans not now before us. The District Court,
however, denied the injunction on the merits insofar as
the split-day contracts were concerned, and the court below affirmed on a like basis. 138 F. 2d 705. In granting
certiorari upon the question of the legality of the split-day
plan we asked for a discussion of the question whether respondent's discontinuance of the plan rendered the case
moot. 321 U. S. 759. We hold that the case is not moot
under these circumstances. Despite respondent's voluntary cessation of the challenged conduct, a controversy
between the parties over the legality of the split-day plan
still remains. Voluntary discontinuance of an alleged
illegal activity does not operate to remove a case from the
ambit of judicial power. See Hecht Co. v. Bowles, 321
U. S. 321, 327; Otis & Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 106 F. 2d 579, 583-584. Respondent has consistently urged the validity of the split-day plan and would
presumably be free to resume the use of this illegal plan
were not some effective restraint made. There is thus "an
actual controversy, and adverse interests," Lord v. Veazie,
8 How. 251, 255, with a "subject-matter on which the
judgment of the court can operate," Ex parte Baez, 177
U. S. 378, 390; St. Pierre v. United States, 319 U. S.
41, 42.
We accordingly reverse the judgment of the court below
with directions to remand the case to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

