OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

454

Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

NATIONAL METROPOLITAN BANK v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 161.

Argued December 13, 14, 1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.

1. Rights and liabilities on commercial paper issued by the Government are to be determined by federal rather than local law; and,
in the absence of an applicable Act of Congress, the governing
rules must be fashioned by the federal courts. P. 456.
2. The Government is entitled to recover payments made to a
collecting bank on government checks on which the bank had expressly guaranteed prior endorsements but on which the endorsements of the payees were forged; and recovery was not barred by
the negligent failure of the Government to detect the fraud of a
government clerk who, over a period of 28 months, had fraudulently
procured issuance of the checks upon forged vouchers. United
States v. Chase National Bank, 252 U. S. 485, distinguished.
P. 457.
3. Negligence of a drawer-drawee in failing to discover fraud prior
to a guaranty of the genuineness of prior endorsements does not
absolve the guarantor from liabiity where the prior endorsements
have been forged. P. 459.
142 F. 2d 474, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 692, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the United States in a suit against the bank
to recover payments made on government checks.
Mr. George C. Gertman for petitioner.
Mr. David L. Kreeger, pro hac vice, with whom Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and
Messrs. Paul A. Sweeney and W. Leavenworth Colby were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

One Foley, a civilian clerk in the Paymaster's office of
the Marine Corps, procured the issuance of 144 govern-

METROPOLITAN BANK v. U. S.
454

Opinion of the Court.

ment checks, duly signed by the authorized disbursing
officials, by forging pay and travel mileage vouchers in
the names of living Marine Corps officers. These forgeries occurred during a period of twenty-eight months, beginning shortly before July 14, 1936, and ending November 16, 1938. The checks were drawn on the United
States Treasury payable to the order of the officers and
delivered to Foley for distribution to them. Foley forged
their endorsements, added his own name as second endorser, and deposited or cashed the checks at the Anacostia Bank. That bank, without investigating the genuineness of the payees' signatures, endorsed the checks and
transmitted them to the petitioner bank, Which collected
on them from the government. Both banks specifically
guaranteed prior endorsements. About November 21,
1938, the government discovered the fraud and the forgeries, and on December 8th formally demanded repayment from the petitioner. Repayment was refused. On
August 11, 1942, the government brought this suit in the
District Court to recover the payments made. The complaint contained two counts, one for breach of express
warranty, and one for money paid under a mistake of fact.
The bank filed an answer in which it admitted that it had
collected the moneys for the account of the Anacostia
Bank after presenting the checks to the government with
its stamped endorsement guaranteeing prior endorsements. As defense it set up the following: (1) the endorsement did not amount to a guaranty of the payee's
signatue; (2) issuance of the checks by the government
was a warranty that they were not "fictitious," but genuine and issued for a valuable consideration, and this warranty was- breached; (3) the government's disbursing
agencies neglected properly to supervise and examine
the transactions both before and after the first and succeeding checks were issued, thereby delaying discovery
of the fraud, and this neglect, not the bank's guaranty,

. OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

caused the government's loss. The District Court granted
the government's motion for judgment on the pleadings,
and the Court of Appeals affirmed, 142 F. 2d 474, on the
authority of its own prior decision in Washington Loan
& Trust Co. v. United States, 134 F. 2d 59 (1943). Because of a conflict with United States v. First National
Bank, 138 F. 2d 681, (C. C. A. 7, 1943), we granted
certiorari.
. Only recently, in Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States,
318 U. S. 363, we had occasion to consider rights and
liabilities of the government which stem from the issuance and circulation of its commercial paper. Our conclusion was that legal questions involved in controversies
over such commercial papers are to be resolved by the application of federal rather than local law and that, in the
absence of an applicable Act of Congress, federal courts
must fashion the governing rules. Some of the questions
petitioner argues here are foreclosed by the Clearfield
decision. There we held that presentation of a government check to it for payment with an express guaranty of
prior endorsements amounts to a warranty that the signature of the payee was not forged, but genuine. Breach of
that warranty, we said, by presenting a check on which the
payee's signature is a forgery, gives the government a right
to recover from the guarantor when payment is made.
The checks in the instant case were presented to the government by the bank bearing forged endorsements of the
payee's name, and a specific guaranty by the bank. Under the Clearfield rule, therefore, the government should
recover, unless other principles here invoked exempt it
from liability.
It is contended that had it not been for negligence of
the government's administrative officers in detecting the
frauds of its clerk, some, if not all, of the checks would
not have been issued, and that neither the government
nor the bank would have suffered any loss. The answer

METROPOLITAN BANK v. U. S.
454

Opinion of the Court.

alleged facts which, if true, did show negligence in failing to discover the frauds, and since judgment was entered
on the pleadings without trial, we must treat the case as
though negligence in this respect had been established.
This question as to the effect of the drawer-drawee's
negligence prior to a specific guaranty of endorsements
was not directly involved in our Clearfield case; it was
an issue in United States v. National Exchange Bank,
214 U. S. 302, a case on which we largely drew for the
principles announced in the Clearfield decision. In the
latter case, we- pointed out that the National Exchange
Bank case stood for the rule that prompt discovery of
fraud was not a condition precedent to suit in cases like
this. The National Exchange Bank case presented a
situation where 194 government checks had been issued
over a period of ten years as a result of forged vouchers.
There, as here, proper examination and supervision by
government officials would have uncovered the frauds
and thereby prevented or reduced the loss. The collecting bank defended there, as here, on the ground that the
government's failure to discover the fraud should absolve
the collecting bank from liability. This Court, applying
the general law merchant, rejected the defense. The rule
there applied, as pointed out by the court below in Washington Loan & Trust Co. v. United States, supra, has
been almost unanimously accepted by state and federal
courts. No persuasive reasons have been suggested to
us why it should not be accepted as the general federal
rule.
Rejection of the defense of the government's negligence
here set up does not, as petitioner argues, conflict with this
Court's holding in United States v. Chase National Bank,
252 U. S. 485. In that case the government brought suit
against a bank to recover payment it made of a government draft which was itself a forgery. The name of the
payee was also forged. Recovery was denied because the

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

instrument was a forgery. The holding rested on a long
established exception to the general rule under which one
who presents and collects a valid commercial instrument
with- a forged endorsement can be compelled to repay.
The reason for the exception is that a drawee is required
to be familiar with a drawer's signature; if therefore the
drawee pays to an innocent presenter on a forged drawer's
signature, it has been held that the drawee's right to the
money is not superior to that of the innocent presenter.
Price v. Neal, 3 Burr. 1354. This exception is not applicable here because the signatures of the drawer on these
checks were genuine while those in the Chase National
Bank controversy were forged. The fact that these checks
were induced by fraud does not bring them within the
reasoning of the Chase National Bank rule.
There is nothing here to support the petitioner's contention that the government's conduct in- issuing the
checks prompted it to guarantee the payee's endorsement.
Such a guarantee no more results from the issuance of
government checks than any other checks. Government
regulations concerning payment of its commercial paper
point the other way. Treasury Regulations.have made
guarantee of prior endorsements a prerequisite to payment. 31 C. F. R. 202.33. This guaranty was alprotection
which the gQvernment sought not only as to checks which
were issued in due course for a valuable consideiation, but
as to checks which might have been irregularly issued.
That the administrative officers failed fully to perform
their duty is no reason why the government shoul&-be deprived of the advantage of a guarantee independently
made by one who was not under compulsion of any kind to
make it. No equitable principles require that one who, for
his own reasons, guarantees a payee's signature after issuance of a check, shall be relieved of his voluntarily assumed
obligation because others who owed the government obligations had previously defaulted in their obligations.

FORD CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY.
454

Syllabus.

We do not say that there may not be some circumstances, not now before us, under which the government
might be precluded from recovery because of conduct of a
drawer prior to a guaranty of endorsement. We do hold
that negligence of a drawer-drawee in failing to discover
fraud prior to a guaranty of the genuineness of prior endorsements does not absolve the guarantor from liability
in cases where the prior endorsements have been forged.

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
FORD MOTOR CO. v. DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY OF INDIANA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 75. Argued December 7,'1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.
1. A suit against the Department of Treasury of the State of Indiana
and individuals constituting the "Board of the Department of
Treasury," brought pursuant to ยง 64-2614 of Burns' Indiana Statutes
Annotated (1943 Replacement) for a refund of taxes alleged to
have been illegally collected, held a suit against the State, in respect of which the State had not consented to the jurisdiction of the
federal district court. P. 463.
2. Where a suit is in essence ona for the recovery of money from the
State, the State is the real party in interest and is entitled to invoke
its sovereign immunity from suit, even though individual officials
are nominal defendants. P. 464.
3. The Eleventh Amendment denies to the federal courts authority
to entertain a suit brought by private parties against a State without the State's consent. P. 464.
4. Interpretation of ยง 64-2614 as authorizing suits for refunds of
taxes only in state courts accords with the legislative policy of the
State. P. 466.

