U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
166

173

Syllabus.

whether the courts may afford relief where the board refuses or fails to perform a function delegated to it by
Congress, since the board is not a party. Neither the
pleadings nor the prayers disclose a situation in which
the question of the availability of such remedies antecedent to, or subsequent to, the election or certification need
be discussed or decided.
The writ is accordingly dismissed.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

concurs in the result.

UNITED STATES v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
ET AL.
NOS. 17 AND 18.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF
THE UNITED STATES FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.*

Argued November 6, 7, 1944.-Decided December 11, 1944.
1. The motions in the District Court to amend the findings in this
case raised questions of substance, and an appeal applied for and
allowed while such motions were pending was premature and must
be dismissed. P. 177.
2. That the District Court has allowed a premature appeal does not
deprive it of jurisdiction to allow a subsequent and timely appeal.
P. 177.
3. The Sherman Antitrust Act may apply to the business of exhibiting
motion pictures, when a regular interchange of films in interstate
commerce is involved. P. 180.
4. On appeal this Court considers only the alleged errors which have
been included in the assignments of error. P. 180.
5. The evidence sustains the District Court's findings of a conspiracy
of the defendant exhibitors of motion pictures, and certain officers
thereof, unreasonably to restrain interstate trade and commerce in
motion picture films and to monopolize the exhibition of films in the
areas in question, in violation of' § 1 and § 2 of the Sherman Act.
P. 181.
*Together with No. 19, Crescent Amusement Co. et al. v. United
States, also on appeal from the. District Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Tennessee.

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

(a) There was ample evidence that the combination used its
buying power for the purpose either of restricting the ability of
its competitors to license films or of eliminating competition by
acquiring the competitor's property or otherwise. P. 181.
(b) Whether the distributors were technically
co-conspirators
is immaterial, since action by a combination of exhibitors to obtain
an agreement with a distributor whereby commerce with a competing exhibitor is suppressed or restrained is itself a conspiracy in
restraint of trade and a conspiracy to monopolize a part of the
trade or commerce among the States, each of which is prohibited
by the Sherman Act. P. 183.
(c) Even if error be assumed in the introduction of certain
evidence-consisting of letters or reports written by employees of
certain of the major distributors to other employees or officers in
the same company stating reasons why the distributor was discriminating against an independent and in favor of the defendantsthere is sufficient other evidence to establish the restraints of trade
and monopolistic practices, and the burden of showing prejudice
has not been sustained. P. 184.
(d) Though the findings leave much to be desired in the light
of the function of the trial court, they are supported by the
evidence and must therefore be sustained. P. 184.
6. Upon consideration of objections to provisions of the decree in
this case, held:
(1) Lest the public interest be not adequately protected, the
decree should be revised so as to prohibit future acquisitions of
a financial interest in additional theatres outside of Nashville "except
after an affirmative showing that such acquisition will not unreasonably restrain competition." P. 185.
(2) Provisions of the decree enjoining the defendant exhibitors
from making franchises with certain distributors "with the purpose and effect of maintaining their theatre monopolies and preventing independent theatres from competing with them" and from
entering into "any similar combinations and conspiracies having
similar purposes and objects"; from combining, in licensing films,
their closed towns with their competitive situations "for the purpose
and with the effect of compelling the major distributors to license
films on a non-competitive basis in competitive situations and to
discriminate" against the independents; and enjoining each defendant exhibitor "from conditioning the licensing of films in any
competitive situation (outside Nashville) upon the licensing of
films in any other theatre situation"--are sustained. P. 187.

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

175

Statement of the Case.

(a) The franchise agreements and the licensing system were
the chief instruments of the unlawful practices, and it was the duty
of the court to enjoin their continuance and resumption. P. 188.
(b) These provisions of the decree are not unenforceable as
too vague and general. P. 188.
(3) The divestiture provisions of the decree-requiring each
corporate exhibitor to divest itself of the ownership of any stock
or other interest in any other corporate defendant or affiliated
corporation, and enjoining it from acquiring any interest in those
companies; requiring one of the individual defendants to resign
as an officer of any corporation (except Crescent) which is affiliated
with any defendant exhibitor and enjoining him from acquiring
control over any such affiliate by acting as officer or otherwise;
requiring another of the individual defendants to resign as an
officer of the affiliates (except one corporation of his choice) and
enjoining him from acquiring any control over the others by acting
as an officer or otherwise; and allowing a year from the date of
the decree for completion of the divestiture-are sustained. P. 189.
(a) In this type of Sherman Act case, the Government should
not be confined to an injunction against further violations; dissolution of the combination may be ordered where the creation of the
combination is itself the violation. P. 189.
(b) Those who violate the Act may not reap the benefits of
their violations and avoid an undoing of their unlawful project
on the plea of hardship or inconvenience. P. 189.
(c) The fact that minority stockholders of the affiliated companies are not parties to the suit does not bar a separation of the
companies. P. 190.
(d) The requirement that two of the defendant corporate
exhibitors sell their respective half-interests in two companies which
were not made parties to the proceedings is sustained, since it does
not appear on this record that any legal right of any other stockholder would be affected. P. 190.
No. 17 dismissed.
No. 18 reversed.
No. 19 affirmed.

DIRECT APPEALS under the Expediting Act from a decree
against defendants in a civil suit under the Sherman
Antitrust Act. Two of the appeals were taken by the
Government, the other by certain of the defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Assistant Attorney General Berge and Mr. Robert L.
Wright, with whom Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs.
CharlesH. Weston and Chester T. Lane were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. William Waller, with whom Mr. Geo. H. Armistead,
Jr. was on the brief, for appellees in Nos. 17 and 18 and
appellants in No. 19.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The United States brought this civil suit against nine
affiliated companies (whom we will call the exhibitors)
operating motion picture theatres in some 70 small towns
in Alabama, Arkansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Tennessee; against certain officers of these companies; and
against eight major distributors of motion picture films,
charging them with a conspiracy unreasonably to restrain
interstate trade and commerce in motion-picture films and
to monopolize the exhibition of films in this area in violation of § 1 and § 2 of the Sherman Act. 26 Stat. 209, 15
U. S. C. §§ 1, 2. The suit was dismissed against five of
the distributors on motion of the United States.1 Of the
other three the Court found that only one had violated
the Sherman Act. The court also found that seven of
the exhibitors and three of the individual defendants had
violated the Sherman Act substantially as charged. It
entered a decree against them. From the judgment en1 This was done after a consent decree had been entered against
five of the major distributors in United States v. ParamountPictures,
Inc. This dismissal did not eliminate the charge that these distributors had conspired with the defendant exhibitors to restrain and
monopolize trade. And some of the distributors, though dismissed
from the case, were found to be co-conspirators with the exhibitors
in making franchise agreements and in licensing films for the purpose
of maintaining the exhibitors' theatre monopolies and of preventing
the independents from competing.

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

177

Opinion of the Court.

tered the United States, six of the exhibitors, and three
individual defendants appeal directly to this Court under
§ 2 of the Act of February 11, 1903, 32 Stat. 823, 15 U. S. C.
§ 29 and § 238 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the
Act of February 13, 1925, 43 Stat. 936, 938, 28 U. S. C.
§ 345.
I. Before we come to the merits there is a preliminary
question as to whether the appeal of the United States
in No. 17 is premature. The District Court entered a
final judgment in this case on May 17, 1943. On the
sixtieth day after judgment there were motions pending
to amend the findings. On that day the appeal was applied for and allowed. On August 30, 1943, the court
ruled on the motions to amend its findings. Within sixty
days thereafter the United States applied for the appeal
in No. 18 and it was allowed. The appeal in No. 17 was
filed here at the same time as that in No. 18. The appellees move to dismiss No. 17 on the ground that it was
premature and to dismiss No. 18 on the ground that the
District Court by allowing the first appeal lost jurisdiction of the cause and was without power to allow a further
appeal. We think the motion to dismiss the appeal in
No. 17 must be granted and the motion to dismiss the
appeal in No. 18 denied.
The motion to amend the findings tolled the time to
appeal if it was not addressed to "mere matters of form
but raised questions of substance," e. g., if it sought a
"reconsideration of certain basic findings of fact and the
alteration of the conclusions of the court." Leishman v.
Associated Electric Co., 318 U. S. 203, 205. An examination of the motion makes plain that matters of substance
were raised. The appeal in No. 17 was accordingly premature. Zimmern v. United States, 298 U. S. 167. But
it does not follow that the District Court had no jurisdiction to allow the appeal in No. 18. An appeal can hardly
be premature (and therefore a nullity) here and yet not

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

premature (and therefore binding) below. Under these
circumstances an appellant may rely upon the later appeal (Ohio Public Service Co. v. Fritz, 274 U. S. 12) and
not run the risk of losing an appellate review on the appeal first allowed. Cf. Wilentz v. Sovereign Camp, 306
U. S. 573.
II. We turn to the merits. Crescent, the principal exhibitor,' owns 50% of the stock of Cumberland and Lyric.
The majority of Crescent's stock is owned by defendant
Sudekum, by certain of his relatives, and by defendants
Stengel and Baulch. Prior to 1937 Crescent owned almost two-thirds of the stock of Muscle Shoals; since that
time Muscle Shoals was run as a partnership in which
Sudekum's wife had a half-interest. Defendant Stengel,
Sudekum's son-in-law, is the record holder of all of Rockwood's stock. Rockwood owns 50% of the stock of Cherokee and Kentucky and of five other theatre corporations. Rockwood was operated as a "virtual branch" of
the Crescent business under the immediate supervision of
Stengel. Sudekum is president of Crescent, Cumberland,
and Lyric; Stengel is an officer and director of Kentucky
and Cherokee. Sudekum was paid $200 a week by Cherokee "for his advice and assistance in running the business." Each of these companies was an exhibitor operating motion picture theatres.
In the five-year period ended in August 1939 when this
bill was filed the exhibitors experienced a rather rapid
growth-in the number of towns where their theatres
were operated; in the number of towns where they operated without competition; in their earnings and surplus.
The United States claims that that growth was the prodCrescent is used for Crescent Amusement Co.; Cumberland for
Cumberland Amusement Co.; Lyric for Lyric Amusement Co., Inc.;
Cherokee for Cherokee Amusements, Inc.; Kentucky for Kentucky
Amusement Co., Inc.; Muscle Shoals for Muscle Shoals Theatres; and
Rockwood for Rockwood Amusement Co.
2

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

179

Opinion of the Court.

uct of restraints of trade in violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act and of monopolistic practices in violation of
§ 2.
The District Court found that each of the seven exhibitors had violated the Sherman Act by
"A. Creating and maintaining an unreasonable monopoly of the business of operating theatres in the towns
of Tennessee, Northern Alabama, and Central and Western Kentucky, in which each has theatres.
"B. Combining its closed towns with its competitive
situations in licensing films for the purpose and with the
effect of compelling the major distributors to license films
on a non-competitive basis in competitive situations and
to discriminate against its independent competitors in
licensing films.
"C. Coercing or attempting to coerce independent operators into selling out to it, or to abandon plans to compete with it by predatory practices."
The court found that these violations were effected (a)
by combining with each other and with certain major
distributors in making franchises, i. e. term contracts for
the licensing of films, with the purpose and effect of maintaining their theatre monopolies and preventing independents from competing with them; (b) by combining
with each other for the purpose of dividing the territory
in which theatres might be operated by any of them;
(c) by combining with each other for the purpose and
with the effect of eliminating, suppressing, and preventing independents from competing in the territory in which
each operated; and (d) by combining with each other
and with certain major distributors in licensing films for
the purpose and with the effect of maintaining their
theatre monopolies and preventing independents from
competing with them. Three of the individual defendants were found to have participated actively in these
violations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Interstate commerce was found to have been employed
in consummating the conspiracy. In the selling season
each year the distributor's salesmen solicit contracts from
the exhibitors for the distributor's approval by the home
office. As the films are released for exhibition, prints are
sent to the numerous exchanges located in various states
and delivered by them to the exhibitors in their respective
areas.' The exhibitor ordinarily returns the print to the
distributor's exchange, from which it is supplied to other
theatres. The findings are wholly adequate to establish
that the business of the exhibitors involves a regular interchange of films in interstate commerce. As we shall
see, that course of business may be sufficient to make the
Sherman Act applicable to the business of exhibiting
motion pictures. Interstate Circuit v. United States, 306
U. S. 208. Cf. Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S.
291. The crucial issues in the present case relate to the
evidence and the appropriateness of the decree.
III. The defendants assert that the United States failed
to prove the allegations of the complaint as amplified by
the bill of particulars. But no such error was assigned.
The only assignments on this phase of the case relate to
subsidiary findings which are parts of sixteen of the one
hundred and eighty-seven findings of fact contained in
one hundred and twenty printed pages. Hence they are
the only ones we will consider. Seaboard Air Line R. Co.
v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 91; E. R. Squibb & Sons v. Mallinckrodt Chemical Works, 293 U. S. 190; Rule 9, 275 U. S.
600. We have examined them and conclude that they do
not constitute reversible error. If any modifications were
made in these subsidiary findings they would not be basic
or essential ones.
3 The defendant exhibitors during the five-year period preceding the
filing of this suit paid about 90% of their total film rental to the eight
major distributors.

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

181

Opinion of the Court.

The crux of the government's case was the use of the
buying power of the combination for the purpose of eliminating competition with the exhibitors and acquiring a
monopoly in the areas in question. There was ample evidence that the combination used its buying power for the
purpose either of restricting the ability of its competitors
to license films or of eliminating competition by acquiring
the competitor's property or otherwise. For example, the
defendants would insist that a distributor give them monopoly rights in towns where they had competition or else
defendants would not give the distributor any business
in the closed towns where they had no competition. The
competitor not being able to renew his contract for films
would frequently go out of business or come to terms and
sell out to the combination with an agreement not to compete for a term of years. The mere threat would at times
be sufficient and cause the competitor to sell out to the
combination "because his mule was scared." In that way
some of the affiliates were born. In summarizing various
deals of this character the District Court said, "Each of
these agreements not to compete with Crescent or its
affiliates in other towns extended far beyond the protection of the business being sold, and demonstrated a clear
intention to monopolize theatre operation wherever they
or their affiliates secured a foothold."
4The

expansion of the combination during this period was summarized by the District Court as follows:
"On August 11, 1934, the defendant exhibitors and their affiliates
operated in thirty-two towns in Tennessee (excluding Nashville),
Kentucky, and Alabama, in six of which they had competition. On
August 11, 1939, the defendant exhibitors and their affiliates, with the
exception of Strand, heretofore dismissed as a defendant, operated in
seventy-eight towns in Tennessee (excluding Nashville), Kentucky,
Alabama, and North Carolina, in five of which they had competition,
and the only towns in which they have competition today outside of
Nashville, are Gadsden, Alabama, Harriman, Gallatin and McMinn-

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

The same type of warfare was waged with franchise
contracts with certain major distributors covering, a
term of years. These gave the defendants important exclusive film-licensing agreements. Their details varied.
But generally they gave the defendant exhibitors the right
to first-run exhibition of all feature pictures which they
chose to select in their designated towns. Clearances over
the same or nearby towns were provided, i. e. a time lag
was established between. the showing by the defendant exhibitors and a subsequent showing by others. The opportunity of competitors to obtain feature pictures for subsequent runs was further curtailed by repeat provisions
ville, Tennessee, and Franklin, Kentucky. In two of these towns-Gadsden, Alabama, and Harriman, Tennessee--the independent
theatres have opened since the filing of this suit and two moreFranklin, Kentucky, and Gallatin, Tennessee-are towns which Crescent entered less than two years before the filing of this suit.
"Of the forty-five towns in Tennessee listed in the 1940 census as
having populations between 2,500 and 10,000, Crescent and its affiliates now operate theatres in all but nine. The independents operating
in three of those nine towns have already been approached by Sudekum
emissaries with the suggestion that they sell to one of the defendant
exhibitors."
Their financial growth was found to be "out of all proportion" to
their physical expansion:
"During the five-year period immediately preceding the suit, the
Crescent and Rockwood companies each experienced a phenomenal
growth in earnings and surplus which was out of all proportion to the
increase in gross receipts and gross assets resulting from physical
expansion of the business and improving general economic conditions.
During the five-year fiscal period from June 30, 1934 to June 30, 1939,
Crescent's total assets were less than doubled, but its surplus was
increased thirty times. During the last fiscal year of said period its
gross receipts were less than twice the amount of its gross receipts
for the first fiscal year of said period, but its net profits (exclusive
of dividends received) were more than five times those of the first
year. During the five-year period, its net earnings (exclusive of
dividends received) averaged about 35 per cent per annum, on its
capitalization."

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

183

Opinion of the Court.

which gave the defendant exhibitors the option of showing the pictures in their theatres a second time. In reviewing one of these franchise agreements the District
Court concluded, "The repeat-run clause in the franchise
was completely effective in preventing the sale of a
second-run of any Paramount features to any opposition
theatre."
We are now told, however, that the independents were
eliminated by the normal processes of competition; that
their theatres were less attractive; that their service was
inferior; that they were not as efficient businessmen as the
defendants. We may assume that if a single exhibitor
launched such a plan of economic warfare he would not
run afoul of the Sherman Act.' But the vice of this undertaking was the combination of several exhibitors in a plan
of concerted action. They had unity of purpose and
unity of action. They pooled their buying power for a
common end. It will not do to analogize this to a case
where purchasing power is pooled so that the buyers may
obtain more favorable terms. The plan here was to crush
competition and to build a circuit for the exhibitors. The
District Court found that some of the distributors were
co-conspirators on certain phases of the program. But we
can put that circumstance to one side and not stop to
inquire whether the findings are adequate on that phase
of the case. For it is immaterial whether the distributors
technically were or were not members of the conspiracy.
The showing of motion pictures is of course a local affair.
But action by a combination of exhibitors to obtain an
agreement with a distributor whereby commerce with a
competing exhibitor is suppressed or restrained is a conspiracy in restraint of trade and a conspiracy to monopo5 A union of the exhibitor with a distributor in such a program would
of course constitute a conspiracy under the Sherman Act as held in
Interstate Circuit v. United States, 306 U. S. 208.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

lize a part of the trade or commerce among the States, each'
of which is prohibited by the Sherman Act. And as we
have said, the course of business which involves a regular
exchange of films in interstate commerce is adequate to
bring the exhibitors within the reach of the Sherman
Act. Interstate Circuit v. United States, supra.
The exhibitors, however, claim that the findings against
them on the facts must fall because of improper evidence.
The evidence to which this objection is directed consists
of letters or reports written by employees of certain of
the major distributors to other employees or officers in the
same company stating reasons why the distributor was
discriminating against an independent in favor of the defendants. The United States asserts that these letters
or reports were declarations of one conspirator in furtherance of the common objective and therefore admissible as
evidence against all under the rule of Hitchman Coal &
Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 249. And it is argued
that it makes no difference that these distributors were
dismissed out of the case (Delaney v. United States, 263
U. S. 586, 590) since they were charged with being coconspirators and since the findings are with certain exceptions adequate to support the charge. We do not come to
that question. The other evidence established the position of the distributors and their relations to the theatres
involved, what the distributors in fact did, the combination of the defendants, the character and extent of their
buying power, and how it was in fact used. This other
evidence was sufficient to establish the restraints of trade
and monopolistic practices; the purpose, character, and
extent of the combination are inferable from it alone.
Thus even if error be assumed in the introduction of the
letters and reports, the burden of showing prejudice has
not been sustained.
The defendants finally object to the findings on the
ground that they were mainly taken verbatim from the

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

185

Opinion of the Court.

government's brief. The findings leave much to be desired in light of the function of the trial court. See United
States v. Forness, 125 F. 2d 928, 942-943. But they are
nonetheless the findings of the District Court. And they
must stand or fall depending on whether they are supported by evidence. We think they are.
IV. The major controversy here has turned on the provisions of the decree.
A. Objections of the UnitedStates. The United States
objects to the provision of the decree that no defendant
exhibitor shall acquire a financial interest in any additional theatre outside Nashville in any town where there
already is a theatre "unless the owner of such theatre
should voluntarily offer to sell same to either of the exhibitor defendants, and when none of said defendants,
their officers, agents or servants are guilty of any of the
acts or practices prohibited by paragraph nine (9) hereof."
Paragraph 9 referred to enjoins the defendants "from
coercing or attempting to coerce independent operators
into selling out to it, or to abandon plans to compete with
it by predatory practices." It asks that there be substituted for that provision one which the District Court
had earlier approved restraining such acquisitions "except
after an affirmative showing that such acquisition will not
unreasonably restrain competition."
The Court at times has rather freely modified decrees
in Sherman Act cases where it approved the conclusions
of the District Court as to the nature and character of
the violations. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221
U. S. 1, 78-82. United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
221 U. S. 106, 184-188. We recognize however that there
is a wide range of discretion in the District Court to mould
the decree to the exigencies of the particular case; and
where the findings of violations are sustained, we will not
direct a recasting of the decree except on a showing of
abuse of discretion. See Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

States, 309 U. S. 436, 461; United States v. Bausch &
Lomb Co., 321 U. S. 707, 725, 728. We think this is a case
where we should act lest the public interest not be adequately protected by the decree as cast.
The generality of this provision of the decree bids fair
to call for a retrial of a Sherman Act case any time a citation for contempt is issued. The crucial facts in each
case would be subtle ones as is usually true where purpose
and motive are at issue. This type of provision is often
the only practical remedy against continuation of illegal
trade practices. But we are dealing here with a situation
which permits of a more select treatment. The growth
of this combine has been the result of predatory practices
condemned by the Sherman Act. The object of the conspiracy was the destruction or absorption of competitors.
It was successful in that endeavor. The pattern of past
conduct is not easily forsaken. Where the proclivity for
unlawful activity has been as manifest as here, the decree
should operate as an effective deterrent to a repetition of
the unlawful conduct and yet not stand as a barrier to
healthy growth on a competitive basis. The acquisition of
a competing theatre terminates at once its competition.
Punishment for contempt does not restore the competition which has been eliminated. And where businesses
have been merged or purchased and closed out it is commonly impossible to turn back the clock. Moreover if
the District Court were to supervise future acquisitions
in this case, it would not be undertaking an onerous and
absorbing administrative burden. The burden would
not seem more onerous than under the alternative provision where in substance the issue would be violation of
the Sherman Act vel non.
These considerations impel us to conclude that the
decree should be revised so as to prohibit future acquisitions of a financial interest in additional theatres outside of

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

187

Opinion of the Court.

Nashville "except after an affirmative showing that such
acquisition will not unreasonably restrain competition."
B. Objections of the Defendants. (1) The decree enjoins the defendant exhibitors from making franchises
with certain distributors "with the purpose and effect of
maintaining their theatre monopolies and preventing independent theatres from competing with them" and from
entering into "any similar combinations and conspiracies
having similar purposes and objects." The decree also
enjoins them from combining, in licensing films, their
closed towns with their competitive situations "for the
purpose and with the effect of compelling the major distributors to license films on a non-competitive basis in
competitive situations and to discriminate" against the
independents. The decree also enjoins each defendant
exhibitor "from conditioning the licensing of films in any
competitive situation (outside Nashville) upon the licensing of films in any other theatre situation."
It is argued that these provisions will aggrandize the
distributors at the, expense of the exhibitors, that if such
measures are taken they should be taken against the distributors, that they deprive the exhibitors of group purchasing power, that the franchise agreements are normal
and necessary both for distributors and exhibitors, and that
these provisions of the decree are so vague and general as
to greatly burden the conduct of these businesses.
It is not for us, however, to pick and choose between
competing business and economic theories in applying
this law. Congress has made that choice. It has declared that the rule of trade and commerce should be competition, not combination. United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, 397; Fashion Originators'Guild
v. Federal Trade Commission, 312 U. S. 457, 465. Since
Congress has made that choice, we cannot refuse to sustain a decree because by some other measure of the public

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

good the result may not seem desirable. United States v.
Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 221-222. The
duty of the Court in these cases is "to frame its decree
so as to suppress the unlawful practices and to take such
reasonable measures as would preclude their revival."
Ethyl Gasoline Corp.v. UnitedStates, supra,p. 461. The
chief weapons used by this combination in its unlawful
warfare were the franchise agreements and the licensing
system. The fact that those instruments could be lawfully used does not mean that the defendants may leave
the court unfettered. Civil suits under the Sherman Act
would indeed be idle gestures if the injunction did not run
against the continuance or resumption of the unlawful
practice. And it is hard to see how the decree could be
made less general and more specific. If it is a burden
which cannot be lightened by application to the court for
exercise of the power which it has reserved over the decree, it is a burden which those who have violated the
Act must carry. And the fact that there may be somewhere in the background a greater conspiracy from which
flow consequences more serious than we have here is no
warrant for a refusal to deal with the lesser one which is
before us.
(2) Serious complaint is made of the divestiture provisions of the decree. It requires each corporate exhibitor to
divest itself of the ownership of any stock or other interest
in any other corporate defendant or affiliated corporation,6
and enjoins it from acquiring any interest in those companies. Sudekum is required to resign as an officer of any
corporation (except Crescent) which is affiliated with any
defendant exhibitor and he is enjoined from acquiring
control over any such affiliate (except Crescent) by acting
as officer or otherwise. Stengel is required to resign as
6Defined

in the decree to exclude -certain companies.

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

189

Opinion of the Court.

officer of the affiliates (except one corporation of his
choice) and is enjoined from acquiring any control over
the others by acting as an officer or otherwise. A year
from the date of entry of the decree is allowed for completing this divestiture.
It is said that these provisions are inequitable and
harsh income tax wise, that they, exceed any reasonable
requirement for the prevention of future violations, and
that they are therefore punitive.
The Court has quite consistently recognized in this type
of Sherman Act case that the government should not be
confined to an injunction against further violations. Dissolution of the combination will be ordered where the
creation of the combination is itself the violation. See
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197,
354-360; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, supra; United
States v. American Tobacco Co., supra, pp. 186-188;
United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 226 U. S. 61, 97;
United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26, 63; United
States v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 254 U. S. 255; United
States v. Southern Pacific Co., 259 U. S. 214; United
States v. Corn Products Refining Co., 234 F. 964, 1018.
Those who violate the Act may not reap the benefits of
their violations and avoid an undoing of their unlawful
project on the plea of hardship or inconvenience. That
principle is adequate here to justify divestiture of all
interest in some of the affiliates since their acquisition was
part of the fruits of the conspiracy. But the relief need
not, and under these facts should not, be so restricted.
The fact that the companies were affiliated induced joint
action and agreement. Common control was one of the
instruments in bringing about unity of purpose and unity
of action and in making the conspiracy effective. If that
affiliation continues, there will be tempting opportunity
for these exhibitors to continue to act in combination

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

against the independents. The proclivity in the past to
use that affiliation for an unlawful end warrants effective
assurance that no such opportunity will be available in the
future. Hence we do not think the District Court abused
its discretion in failing to limit the relief to an injunction
against future violations. There is no reason why the
protection of the public interest should depend solely on
that somewhat cumbersome procedure when another
effective one is available.
The fact that minority stockholders of the affiliated
companies are not parties to the suit is no legal barrier
to a separation of the companies. United States v. American Tobacco Co., supra. No legal right of one stockholder
is normally affected if another stockholder is required to
sell his stock. And no exception to that rule has been
shown to exist here. Only business inconvenience and
hardship are asserted. It is said, however, that the decree
requires Rockwood and Cherokee (two defendant exhibitors) to sell their respective half-interests in two companies which were not made parties to. the proceedings.
The argument is that the latter companies are indispensable parties if such divestiture is required. Reliance is
placed on Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S.
199. In that case Minnesota brought an original action
in this Court alleging that the acquisition by Northern
Securities Co. of the majority stock of two railroad companies effected a consolidation of the railroads in violation
of Minnesota law. Minnesota asked, among other things,
for an injunction against Northern Securities Co. voting
the stock of those companies. The Court held that the
two railroad companies were indispensable parties; and
since the jurisdiction of the Court would have been defeated-if they were joined, leave to file the bill was denied.
Denial of the right of a majority stockholder to vote his
stock would deprive the corporation of a board of direc-

U. S. v. CRESCENT AMUSEMENT CO.
173

191

Opinion of the Court.

tors elected in accordance with state law. If such a step
were taken, the corporation should be a party so that all
corporate interests might be represented. Minnesota v.
Northern Securities Co. goes no farther than that. Here
there is no showing of any complication of that order.
If such a complication appeared, the District Court could
bring in the two affiliates as parties in order to effectuate
the decree. United States v. Southern Pacific Co., supra,
p. 241. But on this record it does not appear that if Rockwood and Cherokee are required to sell their half-interests
in those companies any legal right of any other stockholder would be affected. Cf. Morgan v. Struthers, 131
U. S. 246.
We have considered the other contentions and find
them without merit.
The appeal in No. 17 is dismissed.
The judgment in No. 18 is reversed.
The judgment in No. 19 is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, and
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

dissents.

