FORD CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY.
454

Syllabus.

We do not say that there may not be some circumstances, not now before us, under which the government
might be precluded from recovery because of conduct of a
drawer prior to a guaranty of endorsement. We do hold
that negligence of a drawer-drawee in failing to discover
fraud prior to a guaranty of the genuineness of prior endorsements does not absolve the guarantor from liability
in cases where the prior endorsements have been forged.

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
FORD MOTOR CO. v. DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY OF INDIANA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 75. Argued December 7,'1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.
1. A suit against the Department of Treasury of the State of Indiana
and individuals constituting the "Board of the Department of
Treasury," brought pursuant to § 64-2614 of Burns' Indiana Statutes
Annotated (1943 Replacement) for a refund of taxes alleged to
have been illegally collected, held a suit against the State, in respect of which the State had not consented to the jurisdiction of the
federal district court. P. 463.
2. Where a suit is in essence ona for the recovery of money from the
State, the State is the real party in interest and is entitled to invoke
its sovereign immunity from suit, even though individual officials
are nominal defendants. P. 464.
3. The Eleventh Amendment denies to the federal courts authority
to entertain a suit brought by private parties against a State without the State's consent. P. 464.
4. Interpretation of § 64-2614 as authorizing suits for refunds of
taxes only in state courts accords with the legislative policy of the
State. P. 466.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

5. The contention that the suit is against the State and in contravention of the Eleventh Amendment is considered by this Court
though urged here for the first time in this proceeding. P. 467.
6. Neither the attorney general nor any other administrative or executive officer of the State was authorized by state law to waive
the State's immunity in this proceeding. P. 468.
141 F. 2d 24, vacated.
CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 721, to review the affirmance of
a judgment denying recovery in a suit for a refund of state
taxes alleged to have been illegally collected.
Mr. Merle H. Miller for petitioner.
Messrs. Winslow Van Horne and John J. McShane,
Deputy Attorneys General of Indiana, with whom Mr.
James A. Emmert, Attorney General, was on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This writ brings here for review an action by petitioner,
a non-resident foreign manufacturing corporation, against
the respondents, the department of treasury of the State
of Indiana and M. Clifford Townsend, Joseph M. Robertson and Frank G. Thompson, the Governor, Treasurer
and Auditor, respectively, of the State of Indiana, who
"together" constituted the board of the department of
treasury.1 Petitioner seeks a refund of gross income taxes
paid to the department and measured by sales claimed by
the state to have occurred in Indiana.2 Jurisdiction of the
United States District Court is founded on allegations of
the violation of Article I, § 8, the Commerce Clause, and
' We need not consider the present status of the board of the department of treasury as § 64-2614, Burns, Indiana Stat. Ann. (1943
Replacement), provides for suit against the "department." See Indiana Acts, 1933, ch. 4, § 13; Indiana Acts, 1941, ch. 4 and ch. 13,
§§ 22, 8; Tucker v. State, 218 Ind. 614, 35 N. E. 2d 270.
Burs, Indiana Stat. Ann. § 64-2602 (1943 Replacement).

FORD CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY.
459

461

Opinion of the Court.

the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution. The
state statutory procedure for obtaining a refund which
petitioner followed is set forth in § 64-2614 (a) of the
Indiana statutes.'
The District Court denied recovery. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed.' Certiorari was granted' on peti3Section 64-2614 (a) of Burns, Indiana Stat. Ann. (1943 Replacement) provides:
"If any person considers that he has paid to the department for
any year an amount which is in excess of the amount legally due from
him for that year under the terms of this act, he may apply to the department, by verified petition in writing, at any time within three (3)
years after the payment for the annual period for which such alleged
overpayment has been made, for a correction of the amount so paid
by him to the department, and for a refund of the amount which he
claims has been illegally collected and paid. In such petition, he
shall set forth the amount which he claims should be refunded, and
the reasons for such claim. The department shall promptly consider such petition, and may grant such refund, in whole or in part,
or may wholly deny the same. If denied in whole or in part, the
petitioner shall be forthwith notified of such action of the department, and of its grounds for such denial. The department may, in
its discretion, grant the petitioner a further hearing with respect to
such petition. Any person improperly charged with any tax provided for under the terms of this act, and required to pay the same,
may recover any amount thus improperly collected, together with
interest, in any proper action or suit against the department in any
court of competent jurisdiction; and the circuit or superior court of
the county in which the taxpayer resides or is located shall -have original jurisdiction of action to recover any amount improperly collected:
Provided, however, That no court shall entertain such a suit, unless
the taxpayer shall show that he has filed a petition for refund with
the department, as hereinabove provided, within one (1) year prior
to the institution of the action: Provided, further, That no such suit
shall be entertained until the expiration of six (6) months from the
time of filing such petition for refund with the department, unless
in the meantime, the department shall have notified the petitioner,
in writing, of the denial of such petition ....
Ford Motor Co. v. Department of Treasury, 141 F. 2d 24.
5322 U. S. 721.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

tioner's assertion of error in that the Circuit Court of
Appeals decided an important question of local law probably in conflict with an applicable decision of the Supreme
Court of Indiana. Department of Treasury v. International Harvester Co., 221 Ind. 416, 47 N. E. 2d 150. As
we conclude that petitioner's action could not be maintained in the federal court,- we do not decide the merits
of the issue.
Petitioner's right to maintain this action in a federal
court depends, first, upon whether the action is against
the State of Indiana or against an individual. Secondly,
if the action is against the state, whether the state has
consented to be sued in the federal courts. Recently these
questions were discussed in GreatNorthern Insurance Co.
v. Read, 322 U. S. 47.
In that case this Court held that as the suit was against
a state official as such, through proceedings which were
authorized by statute to compel him to carry out with
state funds the state's agreement to reimburse moneys
illegally exacted under color of the tax power, the suit
was one against the state. We said that such a suit was
clearly distinguishable from actions against a tax collector
to recover a personal judgment for money wrongfully
collected under color of state law. 322 U. S. 47, 50-51.
Where relief is sought under general law from wrongful
acts of state officials, the sovereign's immunity under the
Eleventh Amendment does not extend to wrongful individual action, and the citizen is allowed a remedy against
the wrongdoer personally. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v.
O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280; cf. Matthews v. Rodgers, 284
U. S. 521, 528. Where, however, an action is authorized
by statute against a state officer in his official capacity
and constituting an action against the state, the Eleventh
Amendment operates to bar suit except in so far as the
statute waives state immunity from suit. Smith v.

FORD CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY.
459

Opinion of the Court.

Reeves, 178 U. S. 436; Great Northern Insurance Co. v.
Read, 322 U. S. 47.
We are of the opinion that petitioner's suit in the instant case against the department and the individuals
as the board constitutes an action against the State of
Indiana. A state statute prescribed the procedure for
obtaining refund of taxes illegally exacted, providing that
a taxpayer first file a timely application for a refund with
the state department of treasury.' Upon denial of such
claim, the taxpayer is authorized to recover the illegal
exaction in an action against the "department." Judgment obtained in such action is to be satisfied by payment "out of any funds in the state treasury." 7 This
section clearly provides for an action against the state,
as opposed to one against the collecting official individually. No state court decision has been called to our
attention which would indicate that a different interpretation of this statute has been adopted by state courts.
Petitioner's suit in the federal District Court is based
on § 64-2614 (a) of the Indiana statutes and therefore
constitutes an action against the state, not against the
collecting official as an individual. Petitioner brought its
action in strict accord with § 64-2614 (a). The action is
against the state's department of treasury. The complaint carefully details compliance with the provisions of
§ 64-2614 (a) which require a timely application for refund to the department as a prerequisite to a court action
authorized in the section. It is true the petitioner in the
present proceeding joined the Governor, Treasurer and
Auditor of the state as defendants, who "together constitute the Board of Department of Treasury of the State
of Indiana." But, they were joined as the collective reprenote 3 supra, § 64-2614 (a).
Burns, Indiana Stat. Ann. § 64-2614 (b) (1943 Replacement).

o See
7

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

sentatives of the state, not as individuals against whom a
personal judgment is sought. The petitioner did not
assert any claim to a personal judgment against these
individuals for the contested tax payments. The petitioner's claim is for a "refund," not for the imposition
of. personal liability on individual defendants for sums
illegally exacted. We have previously held that the nature
of a suit as one against the state is to be determined by
the essential nature and effect of the proceeding. Ex
parte Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 490-99; Ex parte New York,
256 U. S. 490, 500; Worcester County Trust Co. v. Riley,
302 U. S. 292, 296-98. And when the action is in essence
one for the recovery of money from the state, the state
is the real, substantial party in interest and is entitled
to. invoke its sovereign immunity from suit even though
individual officials are nominal defendants. Smith v.
Reeves, supra; Great Northern Insurance Co. v. Read,
supra. We are of the opinion, therefore, that the present
proceeding was brought in reliance on § 64-2614 (a) and
is a suit against the state.
It remains to be considered whether the State of Indiana has consented to this action against it in the federal
court.'
The Eleventh Amendment provides that: "The Judicial
power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of
another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign
State." This express constitutional limitation denies to
the federal courts authority to entertain a suit brought by
private parties against a state without its consent. Hans
v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, 10; Ex parte New York, 256
U. S. 490, 497; Missouri v. Fiske, 290 U. S. 18, 25; United
States v. U. S. Fidelity & GuarantyCo., 309 U. S. 506, 512;
Great Northern Insurance Co. v. Read, supra; State v.
Mutual Life Ins. Co., 175 Ind. 59, 71,93 N. E. 213; Hogston

FORD CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY.
459

Opinion of the Court.

v. Bell, 185 Ind. 536, 548,112 N. E. 883. While the state's
immunity from suit may be waived, Clark v. Barnard,108
U. S. 436, 447; Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line, 200 U. S.
273; Missouri v. Fiske, 290 U. S. 18, 24, there is nothing
to indicate authorization of such waiver by Indiana in
the present proceeding.
Section 64-2614 (a) authorizes "action or suit against
the department in any court of competent jurisdiction;
and the circuit or superior court of the county in which
the taxpayer resides or is located shall have original
jurisdiction of action to recover any amount improperly
collected." In the Read case we construed a similar provision of an Oklahoma tax refund statute as a waiver of
state immunity from suit in state courts only. 322 U. S.
47, 54. As was said in that case: "When a state authorizes
a suit against itself to do justice to taxpayers who deem
themselves injured by any exaction, it is not consonant
with our dual system for the federal courts to be astute
to read the consent to embrace federal as well as state
courts. . . . when we are dealing with the sovereign exemption from judicial interference in the vital field of
financial administration a clear declaration of the state's
intention to submit its fiscal problems to other courts
than those of its own creation must be found." Cf. United
States v. Shaw,;309 U. S. 495, 501. Section 64-2614 does
not contain any clear indication that the state intended
to consent to suit in federal courts.' The provision in
8 Section 60-310, Burns, Indiana Stat. Ann. (1943 Replacement),
(Acts, 1941, ch. 27, § 1, p. 64), provides for the creation of a state
board of finance. This section reads, in part, as follows: "Such board
may sue, and be sued in its name, in any action, and in any court
having jurisdiction, whenever necessary to accomplish the purposes
of this act."
It does not appear that the right to sue the department of treasury
for erroneous tax payments, which was granted by § 64-2614 (a),
Burns, Indiana Stat. Ann. (1943 Replacement) (see Acts, 1937, ch.

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

this section which vests original jurisdiction of suits for
refund in the "circuit or superior court of the county in
which the taxpayer resides or is located" indicates that the
state legislature contemplated suit in the state courts."
Moreover, this interpretation of § 64-2614 (a) to authorize suits only in state courts accords with the state legislative policy. Indiana has adopted a liberal policy toward
general contract claimants but confines their suits against
the state to state courts."
It remains to be considered whether the attorney general for the State of Indiana in his conduct of the present
proceeding has waived the state's immunity from suit.
The state attorney general is authorized to represent the
state in actions brought under the Indiana refund statute.1 He appeared in the federal District Court and the
117, § 14, pp. 631-32) has been repealed or transferred to the state
board of finance by the Acts, 1941, ch. 27, or otherwise.
If it is held by Indiana that the state's consent to be sued for
the recovery of taxes was covered by § 60-310 rather than by
§ 64-2614 (a), we should be of the opinion, until otherwise advised
by Indiana adjudications, that the consent was limited to suits in
the state courts.
Chapter 27 of the Acts of 1941, which creates the state board of
finance, apparently invests the board with control over public funds
rather than with the collection and refund of taxes.
9Reference to a particular state court in a California statute similar to § 64-2614 was held to warrant an inference that the state
legislature consented to suit against the state in a state court only.
See Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436, 441.
10 Burns, Indiana Stat. Ann. § 4-1501 (1933), provides:
"Any person or persons having or claiming to have a money demand
against the state of Indiana, arising, at law or in equity, out of contract, express or implied, .. .may bring suit against the state therefor in the superior court of Marion County, Indiana, . . .and juris-

diction is hereby conferred upon said superior court of Marion
County, Indiana, to hear and determine such action . .
" Section 64-2614 (c) provides:
"It shall be the duty of the attorney-general to represent the department, and/or the state of Indiana, in all legal matters or litigation,

FORD CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY.
459

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals and defended the suit on the
merits. The objection to petitioner's suit as a violation
of the Eleventh Amendment was first made and argued
by Indiana in this Court. This was in time, however.
The Eleventh Amendment declares a policy and sets forth
an explicit limitation on federal judicial power of such
compelling force that this Court will consider the issue
arising under this Amendment in this case even though
urged for the first time in this Court.
It is conceded by the respondents that if it is within
the power of the administrative and executive officers of
Indiana to waive the state's immunity, they have done
so in this proceeding. The issue thus becomes one of their
power under state law to do so. As this issue has not
been determined by state courts,12 this Court must resort
to the general policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution, statutes and decisions. Article 4, § 24 of the
Indiana Constitution provides:
either criminal or civil, relating to the enforcement, construction, application and administration of this act, upon the order and under the
direction of the department."
12State ex rel. Woodward v. Smith, 85 Ind. App. 56, 152 N. E. 836,
is the only Indiana decision which has come to our attention as involving the authority of state executive or administrative officials to
consent to suit against the state. In that case plaintiff sued to foreclose a mortgage on certain land and joined the State of Indiana as
defendant in order to obtain cancellation of a prior judgment lien
on this property in favor of the state. The defendant state filed a
cross-complaint for affirmative relief seeking satisfaction of its lien.
The intermediate state court held that since the state appeared, pleaded
to the merits and filed a cross-complaint for affirmative relief, it
thereby consented that it might be made a party to determine the
priority of its lien. This case involves an application of the wellaccepted principle that when a sovereign sues for affirmative relief,
it is deemed to have waived its sovereign immunity as to the issues
presented by its affirmative claim. State v. Portsmouth Savings Bank,
106 Ind.435, 7 N. E. 379.

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

"Provision may be made, by general law, for bringing
suit against the State, as to all liabilities originating after
the adoption of this Constitution; but no special act authorizing such suit to be brought, or making compensation
to any person claiming damages against the State, shall
ever be passed."
We interpret this provision as indicating a policy prohibiting state consent to suit in one particular case in the
absence of a general consent to suit in all similar causes
of action. Since the state legislature may waive state
immunity only by general law, it is not to be presumed in
the absence of clear language to the contrary, that they
conferred on administrative or executive officers discretionary power to grant or withhold consent in individual
cases. Nor do we think that any of the general or special
powers conferred by statute on the Indiana attorney general to appear and defend actions brought against the
state or its officials can be deemed to confer on that officer
power to consent to suit against the state in courts when
the state has not consented to be sued."3 State court de'3 Section 4-1504, Burns, Indiana Stat. Ann. (1933) authorizes the
state attorney general to represent the state in actions brought
against it under § 4-1501, see note 10, supra; it provides:
"It shall be the duty of the attorney-general of state, in person or
by deputy, to defend and represent the interests of the state in said
superior court of Marion County, Indiana, and also in the Supreme
Court on appeal."
Section 49-1902 provides generally:
"Siich attorney-general shall prosecute and defend all suits that
may be instituted by or against the state of Indiana, the prosecution
and defense of which is not otherwise provided for by law, whenever
he shall have been given ten (10) days' notice of the pendency
thereof by the clerk of the court in which such suits are pending, and
whenever required by the governor or a majority of the officers of
state, in writing, to be furnished him within a reasonable time; and
he shall represent the state in all criminal cases in the Supreme Court,
and shall defend all suits brought against the state officers in their
official relations, except suits brought against them by the state; and

FORD CO. v. DEPT. OF TREASURY.
459

Opinion of the Court.

cisions construe strictly the statutory powers conferred
on the Indiana state attorney general and hold that he
exercises only those powers "delegated" to him by statute
and does not possess the powers of an attorney general
at "common law." '" It would seem, therefore, that no
properly authorized executive or administrative officer,
of the state has waived the state's immunity to suit in
the federal courts.
Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line, 200 U. S. 273, is not applicable to the instant case since it involved a taxpayer's
ancillary suit to enjoin South Carolina tax officials from
collecting taxes in violation of an earlier decision of this
Court upholding the validity of a state agreement to
exempt the taxpayer's property. Humphrey v. Pegues,
16 Wall. 244. The Pegues case involved a suit against
the state in the person of its tax officials, the state attorney general appearing for the state and arguing the
case on the merits, no issue of sovereign immunity being

raised.

In the Gunter proceeding, brought over twenty

he shall be required to attend to the interests of the state in all suits,
actions or claims in which the state is or may become interested in
the Supreme Court of this state."
Section 64-2614 (c) specifically authorizes him to represent the
state in actions brought under the provisions of § 64-2614 (a) underwhich petitioner's suit is brought. See note 11, Supra.
14 State ex rel. Bingham v. Home Brewing Co., 182 Ind. 75, 87-95,
105 N. E. 909; Julian v. State, 122 Ind. 68, 23 N. E. 690. Various
lower federal court decisions have held that a state attorney general
cannot waive state immunity from suit. Deseret Water, Oil & Irr.
Co. v. California,202 F. 498; Title Guaranty & Surety Co. v. Guernsey, 205 F. 91; O'Connor v. Slaker, 22 F. 2d 147; Dunnuck v. Kansas
State Highway Commission, 21 F. Supp. 882. The United States
Attorney General has been held to be without power to waive the
sovereign immunity of the United States. Stanley v. Schwalby, 162
U. S. 255, 269-70; cf. United States v. Shaw, 309 U. S. 495, 501.
See Richardson v. FajardoSugar Co., 241 U. S. 44, where, without
consideration of any limitations on his powers, we held that the attorney general of Puerto Rico could waive its sovereign immunity.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

years later, defendant South Carolina attacked the validity of the Pegues judgment on the ground that in that
proceeding the state had not consented to be sued. This
Court held the Pegues judgment was res judicata and
binding on the state because the South Carolina statutes
conferred on the state officials and the attorney general
power there to "stand in judgment for the state," 200
U. S. at 285, 286-87. The state's submission to the court
was authorized by statute, not by the unauthorized consent of an official. Farish v. State Banking Board, 235
U. S. 498, 512. No distinction was drawn between federal
and state courts. Reliance was placed on contemporaneous administrative interpretation of the state statutes,
absence of any legislative action repudiating the attorney
general's conduct of the case and the failure of the state
government in all its departments, for more than twenty
years, to assert any right in conflict with the Pegues adjudication. Administrative construction by a state of its
statutes of consent has influence in determining our conclusions. GreatNorthern Insurance Co. v. Read, supra.
As we indicated in the Read case, the construction given
the Indiana statute leaves open the road to review in this
Court on constitutional grounds after the issues have been
passed upon by state courts. The advantage of having
state courts pass initially upon questions which involve
the state's liability for tax refunds is illustrated by the
instant case where petitioner sued in a federal court for
a refund only to urge on certiorari that the federal court
erred in its interpretation of the state law applicable to
the questions raised.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is vacated
and the cause is remanded to the District Court with directions to dismiss the complaint for want of consent by
the state to this suit.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

