TOMKINS v. MISSOURI.
471

485

Syllabus.

obedience to its own traditions lies so readily on the surface of this record.
The petition should be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

joins in this opinion.

TOMKINS v. MISSOURI.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 64. Argued December 12, 1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.
In a petition to the Supreme Court of Missouri for a writ of habeas
corpus, the petitioner, confined in a state penitentiary for life upon
his plea of guilty to a charge of murder in the first degree, alleged that
he was not represented by counsel, that the court did not make an
effective appointment of counsel, that he did not waive his constitutional right to counsel, that he was ignorant of his right to demand counsel, and that he was incapable adequately of making his
own defense. The court allowed the petitioner to proceed in forma
pauperisbut denied the petition for failure to state a cause of action.
Held:
1. The allegations of the petition are here assumed to be true.
Williams v. Kaiser, ante, p. 471. P. 487.
2. A request for counsel by one accused of a capital offdnse, who
is unable to employ counsel and incapable adequately of making his
own defense, is unnecessary; it is the duty of the court in such case
.to appoint counsel. P. 487.
3. That the petition in such a case as this is not drawn with precision and clarity is not fatal, where the substance of the claim is
plain. P. 487.
4. The nature of the offense charged against the petitionerwho could have been found guilty of murder in the first or second
degree or of manslaughter, with varying penalties-emphasized the
need of counsel. P. 488.
5. The petition sufficiently alleged a deprivation of the right to
counsel in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45. P. 489.
Reversed.

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI,

323 U. S.

322 U. S. 725, to review an order denying a

petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
Mr. John Raeburn Green, with whom Mr. Keith L.
Seegmiller was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert J. Flanagan,Assistant Attorney General of
Missouri, with whom Mr. Roy McKittrick, Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is a companion case to Williams v. Kaiser,
ante, p. 471. It, too, is a petition for a writ of habeas
corpus here on certiorari to the Missouri Supreme Court.
It is alleged in the petition that petitioner in 1934 was
charged with murder in the first degree, pleaded guilty to
the charge, and was convicted and sentenced to the state
penitentiary for life where he is presently confined. The
petition was filed in 1944. The other salient facts alleged
are as follows:
"The petitioner states that in the proceedings in said
Circuit Court of Pemiscot County, Missouri, he was not
represented by counsel, the Court did not make an effective appointment of counsel, the petitioner did not waive
his constitutional right to the aid of counsel, and he was ignorant of his right to demand counsel in his behalf, and he
was incapable adequately of making his own defense."
And he contends that he was deprived of counsel contrary
to the requirements of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Here, as in the Williams case, the
Supreme Court of Missouri allowed petitioner to proceed
in forma pauperis but denied the petition for the reason
that it "fails to state a cause of action."

The petition

for habeas corpus was denied without requiring the State
to answer or without giving petitioner an opportunity to

TOMKINS v. MISSOURI.
485

Opinion of the Court.

prove his allegations. And the allegations contained in
the petition do not appear to be inconsistent with the
recitals of the certified copy of the sentence and judgment
which accompanied the petition and under which petitioner is confined. Hence, we must assume here, as in the
Williams case, that the allegations of the petition are
true.
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45, 71, held that at least
in capital cases "where the defendant is unable to employ counsel, and is incapable adequately of making his
own defense because of ignorance, feeble mindedness; illiteracy, or the like, it is the duty of the court, whether
requested or not, to assign counsel for him as a necessary
requisite of due process of law." Under that test a request for counsel is not necessary.1 One must be assigned
to the accused if he is unable to employ one and is
incapable adequately of making his defense.
The petition is not drawn with the desirable precision
and clarity. But we can hardly demand of a layman and
pauper who draws his petition behind prison walls the
skill of one trained in the law. If we were to take that
course, we would compound the injury caused by the
original denial of counsel. A deprivation of the constitutional right of counsel should not be readily inferred from
vague allegations. But where the substance of the claim
is clear, we should not insist upon more refined allegations
than paupers, ignorant of their right of counsel and incapable of making their defense, could be expected to
supply.
'As noted in the Williams case, the Missouri statute governing the
appointment of counsel (Rev. Stat. 1939, § 4003) employs the language
"arraigned upon an indictment for a felony." The prosecution in this
case was upon an information. But it seems that the Supreme Court
of Missouri applies the statute in that situation as well. See State v.
Terry, 201 Mo. 697, 100 S. W. 432; State v. Steelman, 318 Mo. 628,

300 S. W. 743.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S..

If this petition is read in that light, it satisfies the requirements of Powell v. Alabama. One who was not represented by counsel, who did not waive his right to counsel
and who was ignorant of his right to demand counsel is

one of the class which the rule of Powell v. Alabama was
designed to protect. Certainly when we read these allegations with the further assertion in the record that peti-

tioner was at no time prior to conviction allowed to consult
with an attorney, the conclusion is irresistible that petitioner was unable to employ counsel either because he
was without funds or because he was deprived of the
opportunity.
The nature of the charge emphasizes the need for counsel. Under Missouri law one charged with murder in the
first degree may be found guilty of that offense, of murder
in the second degree, or of manslaughter. Rev. Stat. 1939,
§§ 4376, 4844. The punishments for the offenses are different. §§ 4378, 4391. The differences between them are
governed by rules of construction meaningful to those
trained in the law but unknown to the average layman.2

The defenses cover a wide range.' And the ingredients
of the crime of murder in the first degree as distinguished
from the lesser offenses are not simple but ones over which
2 In State v. Burrell, 298 Mo. 672, 680, 252 S. W. 709, it was held
that "where there is willful killing with malice aforethought, that is,
with malice and premeditation, but not deliberation, or in a cool state
of blood, the offense is murder in the second degree. Nor can any
homicide be murder in the second degree unless the act causing
death was committed with malice aforethought, that is, with malice

and premeditation. Where there is a willful killing without deliberation and not with malice aforethought, the offense is manslaughter."
8Self-defense and insanity are defenses. Rev. Stat. 1939, § 4049.
Justifiable or excusable homicide is a defense (id. § 4381) as those
terms are defined. Id. §§ 4379, 4380.

TOMKINS v. MISSOURI.
485

Opinion of the Court.

skilled judges and practitioners have disagreements.4 The
guiding hand of counsel is needed lest the unwary concede
that which only bewilderment or ignorance could justify
or pay a penalty which is greater than.the law of the State
exacts for the offense which they in fact and in law
committed.
Here, as in the Williams case, the allegations of the petition may turn out to be wholly specious But they are
sufficient to establish a prima facie case of deprivation of
the constitutional right. The other objections raised by
Missouri have been answered in our opinion in the Williams case.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and' MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

think the writ should be dismissed for the reasons set forth
in their dissent in Williams v. Kaiser, ante, p. 479.

4 "The

law presumes the killing was murder in the second degree,
in the absence of proof of attendant circumstances which tend to raise
the killing to murder in the first degree or to reduce it to manslaughter." State v. Henke, 313 Mo. 615, 638, 285 S. W. 392. As to
the necessity on certain evidence to give instructions on a lesser offense than murder in the first degree, see State v. Warren, 326 Mo. 843,
33 S. W. 2d 125; State v. Wright, 337 Mo. 441, 85 S. W. 2d 7; State
v. Jackson, 344 Mo. 1055, 130 S. W. 2d 595.

