CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SJPREME COURT OF TILE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
IN
No. 11, Original.

EQUITY.

Argued October 10, 11, 12, 1905.-Decided March 5, 1906.

The act of Congress admitting Louisiana having given that State all islands
within three leagues of her coast, and the subsequent act of Congress
admitting Mississippi having purportdd to give that State all islands
within six leagues of her shore, and some islands within nine miles of
the Louisiana coast being also within eighteen miles of the Mississippi
shore, although the apparent inconsistency is reconcilable, the basis
of a. boundary controversy involving to each State pecuniary values of
magnitude, exists; and such a controversy between the two States in
their sovereign capacity as States and having a boundary line separating
them justifies the exercise of the original jurisdiction of this court.
As the act admitting Mississippi was passed five years after the act admitting Louisiana, Congress could not take away any portion of Louisiana,
and give it to Mississippi. Section 3, Art. IV of the Constitution does
not permit the claims of any particular State to be prejudiced by the
exercise of the power of Congress therein conferred. .
Acts of Congress passed at different times for the admission of different
States where their respective subjects are not identical with or similar
to each other do not form part of a homogeneous whole, of a common
system, so as to allow a claimant under the later act to claim that it
changed the earlier act by construction, and the rule of in part materia
does not apply.
VOL. COIi-1
(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

The term thalweg is commonly used by writers on international law,
in the definition of water boundaries between States, meaning the middle
or deepest or most navigable channel and while often styled "fairway"
or "midway" or "main channel;" the word has been taken over into
various languages and the doctrine of the thalweg is often applicable in
respect of water boundaries to sounds, bays, straits, gulfs, estuaries and
other arms of the sea, and also applies to boundary lakes and land-locked
seas whenever there is a deep water sailing channel therein.
The "maritime belt" is that part of the sea which, in contradistinction
to the open sea, is under the sway of the riparian States.
As between the States of the Union long acquiescence in the assertion of a
particular boundary, and the exercise of sovereignty over the territory
within it, should be accepted as conclusive, whatever the international
rule may be in respect of .the acquisition by prescription of large tracts
of country claimed by two States.
The real, certain and true boundary south of the State of Mississippi and
north of the southeast portion of the State of Louisiana, and separating
the two States in the waters of Lake Borgne, is the deep water channel
sailing line emerging from the most eastern mouth of Pearl river into
Lake Borgne and extending through the northeast corner. of Lake Borgne,
north of Half Moon or Grand Island, thence east and south through
Mississippi Sound, through South Pass between Cat Island and Isle h
Pitre to the Gulf of Mexico.

THE

State of Louisiana by leave of court filed her bill against

the State of Mississippi, October 27, 1902, to obtain a decree
,determining a boundary line between the two States and requir-

ing the State of Mississippi to recognize and observe the line
8o determined.
The bill alleged:

"1st. That the State of Louisiana was admitted into the
Union of the United States of America by the act of Congress,

found in chapter 50 of the United States Statutes at Large,
volume 2, page 701, approved April 6th, 1812, and therein the
boundaries .of the said State of Louisiana, in the preamble Qf
said act, were described as follows:
" ' Whereas, the representatives of the people of all that part
of the territory or country ceded under the name of Louisiana,
by the treaty made at Paris. on the 30th day of April, 1803,
between the United States and France contained within the

following limits, that is to say: Beginning at the mouth of the

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Statement; of the Case.

river Sabine, thence by a line drawn along the middle of said
river, including all islands to the 32d degree of latitude; thence
due north to the northernmost part of the 33d degree of north
latitude; thence along the said parallel of latitude to the Mississippi river; thence down the said river to the river Iberville, and from thence along the middle of said river and Lakes
Maurepas and Pontchartrain to the Gulf of Mexico; thenee
bounded by said gulf to the place of beginning, including all
islands within three leagues of the coast,' etc.
" 2d. That according to the foregoing description, the eastern
boundary of the State of Louisiana was formed by the Mississippi river, beginning at the northeast corner of gaid State and
extending south to the junction of the said river, with the
river Iberville (now known as Bayou Manchac) and thence extending eastwardly through the lower end of the Amite river,
through the middle of Lake Maurepas, Pass Manchac, and
Lake Pontchartrain, and in order to reach the Gulf of Mexico
its only course was through the Rigolets, into Lake Borgne,
and thence by the deep water channel through the upper corner of Lake Borgne, following said channel, north of Half Moon
Island, through Mississippi Sound to the north of Isle A Pitre,
through the Cat Island channel, southwest of Cat Island, into
the Gulf of Mexico, which said eastern boundary of the State
of Louisiana is more fully shown on diagram No. 1, made
.part of this bill;
"3d. That by the act of Congress, foand in the United
States Statutes at Large, vol. 2,,,
p. 708, chapter 57, approved
April 14th, 1812, additional territory was added to the then
existing State of Louisiana, wh.ch additional territory was described in the following language:
"'Beginning at the junction of the river Iberville with the
Mississippi river; thence along the middle of the Iberville and
of the river Amite and Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain to
the eastern mouth of Pearl river; thence up the eastern branch
of the Pearl river to the 31st degree of north latitude; thence
along the said degree of latitude to the river Mississippi; thence

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

down the said river to the place of beginning, shall become and
form a part 6f the State of Louisiana;
"4th. That the effect of this legislation, as to the eastern
boundary of the State. 6f Louisiana, was to retain the Mississippi river as the original eastern boundary, as far south as ,the

DIAGRAM NO. 1.

31st degree of north latitude. The change then moved the
eastern boundary eastward along the 31st degree of north latitude to the Pearl river, whence it then ran south. down the
said river, through its eastern branch, till it entered the northern corner of Lake Borgne, where the State's eastern boundary
then joined and followed the boundary line originally fixed in
the act of April 6th, 1812, and followed, as heretofore stated,

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the deep water channel through the upper corner of Lake
Borgne,. north of Half Moon Island, eastward through 'the deer)
water channel along the Mississippi Sound till it reached the
Cat Island channel north of Isle Pitre, and southwest of Cat
Island, whence passing through Chandeleur Sound, northeast of
.

DIAGRAM

No. 2.

Chandeleur Islands, it entered the Gulf of Mexico, and ran
south around the delta of the Mississippi river and then north
and westward to the point where the Sabine river enters the
Gulf of Mexico, as will be more fully seen from the diagram
No. 2, made part of this bill;
"5th. That the territory lying adjacent to and to the eastward of the State of Louisiana is the State of Mississippi, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

latter State was admitted into the Union of the United States
of America by the act of Congress, found in the United States
Statutes at Large, volume 3, chapter 23, page 348, approved
March 1st, 1817, whereby the inhabitants of the western part
of the then Mississippi Territory were authorized to form for
themselves a state constitution and to be admitted into the
Union, the boundaries of the then to be created State being
described as follows:
" 'Beginning at the river Mississippi at a point where the
southern boundary line with the State of Tennessee strikes
the same; thence along the said boundary line to the Tennessee river; thence up the same to the mouth of Bear creek;
thence by a direct line to the northwest corner of the county
of Washington (Alabama); thence due south to the Gulf of
Mexico; thence westwardly, including all islands within six
leagues of the shore to the-most southern junction of Pearl
river with Lake Borgne; thence up said river to the 31st degree
of north latitude; thence west along said degree of latitude to
the Mississippi river; thence up the same to the beginning;'
"#W. That by the said act, Congress intended that the
lineof the State of Mississippi, beginning at
southern
the point boundary
dividing it from the State of Alabama, should
run
westwardly till it joined the Louisiana eastern boundary line,
and that in doing so, the said southern boundary would in
effect start'"estward from a point eighteen miles south of the
coamt line, Ad include in its westwardly direction the western
end of Petit Sois Island, all of Horn Island, Ship Island and
Cat Island, and the smaller islands north of these, those islands
being the ones contemplated in the act of Congress, as being
Within eighteen miles of the southern coast line of Mississippi,
and that the said southern boundary of Mississippi, extending
in its westwardly direction through the Gulf of Mexico, would
gradually approach the coast line, and meet the eastern boundary line of Louisiana, just as the said eastern boundary line
of Louisiana emerges from the Cat Island channel into the
Gulf of Mexico, and thence follow and become the same as the

LOUISIANA ,v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

DIAGRAm No. 3.

Louisiana boundary line extending westwardly to the south of
Cat Island, throuhMississippi Sound to the north of Half
Moon or Grand Island to the most southern junction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case,

202 U. S.

east branch of Pearl river with Lake Borgne, being identical
with the Louisiana oastern boundary, and thence extending
up the channel of Pearl river;
"7th. That the islands included between the shore line and
the southern boundary of the State of Mississippi are the
islands heretofore described, viz: the western end of Petit Bois
Island, with all of Horn Island, Ship Island and Cat Island,
and the small islands north of them, those islands being large,
and well known to Congress at the time of the passage of the
act, all of which islands and the southern boundary of the
State of Mississippi will more fully appear from the diagram
No. 3, made a part of this bill;
"8th. That the islands contemplated in the act of Congress
of 1812, creating the State of Louisiana, and intended to be
embraced within the State of Louisiana, as provided by the
clause, 'Thence bounded by the said Gulf to the place of begin,ning, inoluding all islands within three leagues of the coast,'
were all of the other islands, except those heretofore named as
going to the State of Mississippi, as all other islands, and all
other mainland, are south and west of the boundary line thus
passing from Pearl river through the deep water channels in
Lake Borgne, and Mississippi Sound, through the deep water
channel, southwest of Cat Island to the eastward of the Chandeleur Islands, and thence south, taking in the delta of the
Mississippi river, and extending westward along the Gulf coast,
including all islands along the coast, to the Sabine river, where
the State of Louisiana is thence bounded on the westward by
the State of Texas, all of which will more fully appear from
diagram No. 2, heretofore referred tW;
"9th. Now ytour orator avers that there has developed in
recent years in the waters south of the State of Mississippi and
east of the southern portion of the State of Louisiana a considerable growth of oysters, and an industry of large proportions, in the handlin' of the said bivalves, either in their fresh
or in a canned condition, has resulted therefrom;
"10th. That the State of Mississippi has, by legislative

A?PROUdAII

I.OCATIO

OYSTER BEDS
OF ST. BER1NARD PARISti
LOUISIANA.

Sk
1t
U 5 V,Com adlmlg
Ye.188

Lt

YM$'y

a

led~

c~

/

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

enactments, regulated the oyster industry in the waters of said
State, and permits the dredging of oysters on the natural oyster
reefs in waters of the said State, as will more fully appear from
the statutes of said State to which reference is made;
"11th. That the State of Louisiana has by legislative enactments regulated the oyster industry in the said State of Louisiana, and prohibits the dredging of oysters on the natural reefs
in the waters of said State, as will more fully appear from the
statutes of said State to which reference is made;
"12th. That the provisions of the laws of the said two States
differ considerably in many other respects.
"13th. That the existence and location of the natural oyster
reefs in the waters of the parish of St. Bernard in the State of
Louisiana which adjoins the State of Mississippi is shown by
the map made from a reconnaissance by the United States Fish
Commission steamer 'Fish Hawk,' in February, 1898, as will
more fully appear from diagram No. 4, now made part of this
bill; _

"14th. Now your orator avers that the boundary line dividing the two States in the waters thereof has been clearly defined
by the acts of Congress creating the States of Louisiana and
Mississippi, as will be seen from the diagram No. 5,made up
from the boundary descriptions taken from the acts of Congress creating the said States of Louisiana and Mississippi,
which diagram is also made part of this bill;
"15th. That the said boundary line in the waters between
said States has never been designated by buoys or marks of
any kind by either State, nor designated in any manner, except by the United States Government in so far as it has buoyed
the deep water channel, extending from the mouth of the Pearl
river through the upper corner of Lake Borgne north of Half
Moon Island, eastward to the Cat Island Pass, north of Isle A
Pitre, and southwest of Cat Island, which buoys were placed
by the Coast Survey of the United States Government;
"16th. That owing to the differences in the laws of the States
of Louisiana and Mississippi, regulating the oyster industry of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Stitement of the Case.

202.U. S.

the ,respective States, the said statutes providing penaltiu for
the violation thereof, much confusion has resulted and a great
public demand has arisen in Louisiana to definitely mark the

DIAGRAM

No. 5.

boundary line dividing the two States in the waters thereof;
that citizens of the State of Mississippi, in violation of the laws
of the State of Louisiana, have been fishing oysters with dredges

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

on the natural reefs in the waters of the'State of Louisiana,
said fishermen claiming that they were in the waters of the
State of Mississippi and consequently not violating the laws of
the State'of Louisiana."
The bill then set .forth thai; "to avoid an armed conflict between the sheriff and officers of the parish of St. Bernard in
the State of Louisiana, and the sheriff and officers of the county
ot Harrison in the State of Mississippi," a meeting of citizens
of Louisiana was called by the Governor of that State, which
met in New Orleans, and resulted in the appointment by the
Governor of commissioners on the part of Louisiana "to consider the determination of the water boundary line between
the two States, and arrange for its easy location and identification by a proper system of buoys," and to request that the
Goverhor of Mississippi appoint like commissioners on the part
of that State, which appointment was made.
The joint commission met and considered the subject, and
subsequently the Mississippi commission reported its inability
to agree with the Louisiana commission, stating, among other
things, "It is apparent that the only hope of settlement is a
friendly suit in the Supreme Court of the United States, and
we respectfully suggest that course."
The. bill continued:
"24th. That the eastern water boundary line as claimed by
your orator, viz: a line beginning at the most southern junction
of the channel of the east branch of the Pearl river with Lake
Borgne and thence eastward following the deep water channel
to the north of Half Moon Island, through the Mississippi Sound
channel, to Cat rsland Pass, northeast of Isle A Pitre into the
Gulf of Mexico, thereby dividing the waters between the two
States, agrees, and is in accord, with the acts of Congress creating respectively the State of Louisiana and the State of Mississippi as already shown by diagram No. 5; that any other
boundary than the deep water channel as aforesaid would cause
the limits of the two States to conflict and overlap, and that
it is not to be presumed that the Congress of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

intended to, or would, establish, in its description, a boundary
for the State of Mississippi, conflicting with the already existing Louisiana eastern boundary, when there is a construction
of the wording of the two acts, in fact the only construction
that suggests itself, that shows a boundary readily ascertained,
harmonizing with the words of the acts as they now read, and
clearly defining the limits of the two States in the waters between them.
"25th. Your orator further avers that the use of the word
'westwardly' in the description of the southern boundary of
t!he State of Mississippi, as that southern boundary line extends
,westwardly from the Alabama state line to the Louisiana eastern boundary line, shows that it was not the intention of Congress to have it run direct or due west throughout the whole
course, and that it was evidently the intention of Congress, in
giving to the State of Mississippi the islands north of that westwardly drawn line, that the eighteen-mile limit shall gradually
decrease as it approached the Louisiana line on the east till it
met and followed it to its source. If the Mississippi line ran
parallel, to the southern coast of Mississippi, at a distance of
eighteen miles from such coast line following the meander of
the coast, and thence joined at right angles a line emerging.
from the mouth of Pearl river, such line would not only include
Grassy, Half Moon, Round, Le Petit Pass Islands and Isle A
Pitre, already belonging to Louisiana as being within nine
miles or three leagues of the Louisiana shore line, but such line
would also include part of the mainland of the State of Louisiana as will be seen from the following diagram (No. 6) made
a part of this bill and it certainly could not have been the intention of Congress to take away from the State of Louisiana
any islands or mainland already belonging to it and to give
them to the State of Mississippi, as such a proceeding, without
the consent of the legislature of the State of Louisiana, would
be a violation of sec. 3 of art. IV of the Constitution of the
United States.
"26th. Your orator avers that the marsh lands claimed by

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

13

'Statement of the Case.

the State of Mississippi to be islands are in truth, with the
exception of the Isle A Pitre, Grassy, Half Moon, Round and
Le Petit Pass Islands, low lying marsh lands forming part of
the mainland of the State of Louisiana; that said swamp or
marsh lands and islands have been known as and called since
time immemorial 'the Louisiana marshes; ' that they were approved to the State of Louisiana by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office on May 6, 1852, as will appear from a certified copy of said record of approval from the United States
Land Office made a part of this bill, marked Exhibit (G;) and
where not since sold by the State of Louisiana to private purchasers have always stood on the books of the register of the
Louisiana state land office as state lands, to be offered for sale,
until recently transferred by the State of Louisiana to the
board of commissioners for the Lake Borgne basin levee district by the provisions of act, No. 14 of the legislature of the
State of Louisiana for-the year 1892, for the -purpose of enabling the said levee board, by the proceeds of sale of said lands
to secure the funds to aid in the building of levees in that levee
district, to protect the lands from overflow.
"27th. That parts of said disputed territory claimed by the
State of Mississippi to be islands within eighteen miles of its
shore line are in fact part of the mainland of the State of Louisiana, and therefore belong to and form part of said State of
Louisiana, but if your honors should feel that any part of this
disputed area was islands by reason of the presence of shallow
water, then as islands they are within the nine-mile limit of
distance from the shore line of the State of Louisiana and
therefore belong to and form part of the State of Louisiana by
that second provision of the act of Congress giving Louisiana

all islands within three leagues of its shore line.
"28th. Your orator further avers that where contiguous
States or countries are separated by water it is, and always
has been, the custoniuto regard the channel as establishing the
boundary line of such States, and that the State of Mississippi
has itself recognized this principle in the description of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

its territorial limits as found in the second article of its own
constitution adopted November, 1890, in the following
words:
"29th. Your orator avers that as heretofore stated the Congress of the-United States, as well asthe various departments
of the United States Government having authority in the prem
ises, have themselves recognized the boundary line contended
for by the State of Louisiana by reason of the fact that the
United States Government has confirmed to the State of Louisiana the lands composing Half Moon Island which is just south
of the, deep water channel," [by sections and townships as set
forth,] and also "the lands forming what is commonly known
as Isle A Pitre," [by sections and townships as stated,] all of
them "recognized as belonging to and forming part of the State
of Louisiana. by the said United States Government and have
always heretofore been so recognized by the people of the said
two States; that the -lands forming the Isle A Pitre were sold.
by the State of Louisiana," &c., &c., "and said lands have been
assessed or the assessment rolls of the parish of St. Bernard,
State of-Louisiana, and.taxes thereon have been paid to the
State of Louisiana for the past 35 years, and said lands have
never been assessed on the rolls of, nor have Any taxes ever
been, paid to, the State of Mississippi and that this is the case
with all other lands -and islands now claimed by the State of
Mississippi, but which in truth and fact belong to the State of
Louisiana.
"30th. Your orator therefore -further avers that all constituted authorities competent to create, adopt or consider the
said *boundary line have declared the water boundary line
claimed by the State of Louisiana, viz: the deep water channel
running from the most southern junction of the. eastern mouth
of Pearl river, through Lake Borgne, north of Half Moon Island, through Mississippi Sound, north of Isle A Pitre "and
southwest of. Cat. Island, through Cat Island Pass, through
Chandeleur Sound hortheast of Chandeleur Islands, to the Gulf

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of Mexico, to be the true water boundary between the said
States."
The bill prayed that it be adjudged and decreed "that the
boundary line dividing the States of Louisiana and Mississippi,
in the waters between the said States to the south of the State
of Mississippi and to the southeast of the State of Louisiana is
the deep water channel, commencing at the most southern junction of the eastern mouth of Pearl river with Lake Borgne,
thence by the deep-water channel through Lake Borgne, north
of Half Moon Island, through Mississippi Sound, north of Isle h
_'tre, through Cat Island "Pass Channel, southwest of Cat
-Island, through Chandeleur Island Sound, northeast of the Chandeleur Islands, to the Gulf of Mexico, as is delineated on the
original map submitted by the Louisiana Boundary Commission to the Mississippi Boundary Commission and now made
part of this bill, marked Exhibit 'E;' that the said deep water
channel be located throughout its course and permanently
buoyed at the joint expense of the two States; that the State
of Mississippi arid its citizens be perpetually enjoined from
-disputing the sovereignty and ownership of the State of
Louisiana in the said land and water territory south and
west of said boundary line," and for costs and general
relief.
[Exhibit "E" is not reproduced in the printed record, but
is to be found in the Louisiana Atlas of Maps, p. 60. It consists of Coast Survey Charts Nos. 189, 190 and 191, showing
the coast from Mobile to Lakes Borgne and Pontchartrain,, with
boundary lines added in red ink. The maps given in this statement are sufficient to supply the lack of this particular exhibit.]
The State of Mississippi, by leave, filed a demurrer to the
bill, which was by stipulation submitted to the consideration
of the court on printed arguments, and was subsequently over.ruled.
Thereupon the State of Mississippi on leave filed her answer
and cross bi;:.

OCTOBER TEB.M,: 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

The State denied articulately nearly every material allegation of the bill and therefore the accuracy of the diagrams or
maps attached thereto, and asserted the true boundary to be
as set forth in her cross bill. And while she admitted "that
the deep water channel out of the mouth of Pearl river through
the upper course of Lake Borgne and on into the Gulf, as stated
in the bill, has been marked by buoys by and under the direction of the United States Government for navigation and commercial purposes," she denied "that said marking of the deep
water channel was ever intended to fix in any manner whatsoever any part of the boundary line between said States," and
further denied "the correctness of complainant's statement that
where contiguous States or countries are separated by water,
the channel of the waters ,dividing said States constitutes a
boundary line, and defendant specifically denies that such rule
is applicable to this case."
The cross bill averred that the southern boundary line of
the State of Mississippi Was fixed by the act of. Congress, approved March 1, 1817, 3 Stat. 348, c. 23, § 2.
That by that act Mississippi was given "all lands under the
waters south of her well-defined shore line to the distance of
six leagues from said shore at every point between -the Alabama line and the most eastern junction of Pearl ricer with
Lake Borgne, including all islands within said limit," and "all
-territory within said limits, not being a part of the mainland
of the State of Louisiana, became, was and is a part of the territory of 'the State of Mississippi.'
That the acts of 1812, creating the State of Louisiana, failed
"to describe the water line from the most eastern mouth of
Pearl river to the Gulf of Mexico," and hence Louisiana proposed, " witlhout authority in taw to follow the deep water
channel from the mouth of Pearl river to the Gulf of Mexico,
that is, as far south as that point in the sea where the vaters of Chandeleur Sound merge into the waters of the Gulf of
Mexico."
That the apt creating the'State of Mississippi was the organi-

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

zation of a state government in the western part of Mississippi
Territory; that the southern part of the territory of Mississippi
was added thereto by an act of Congress approved May 14,
1812, which provided: "That all that portion of territory lying
east of Pearl river, west of the Perdido, and south of the thirtyfirst degree of latitude, be, and the same is, hereby annexed to
the Mississippi Territory; to be governed by the laws now in
force therein, or which may hereafter be enacted, and the laws
and ordinances of the United States, relative thereto, in like
manner as if the same had originally formed a part of said Territory; and until otherwise provided by law, the inhabitants
of the said district hereby annexed to the Mississippi Territory,
shall be entitled to one representative in the General Assembly
thereof." 2 Stat. 734.
That this act and the act, admitting the State of Mississippi
"recognized the fact that the boundary line of the State of
Louisiana embraced no island in the waters to the cast, of said
State and to the south of the Mississippi mainland, or shore,
and within six leagues of the Mississippi shore; that the said
Louisiana acts are not in conflict with the aforesaid Mississippi
acts, the boundaries of Louisiana only embracing such islands,
as clearly shown by said acts creating and admitting her, as
were within the Gulf of Mexico and also within three leagues
of her Gulf coast, that is to say, within the Gulf of \Iexico
proper and to the south of said State of Louisiana as contemplated by Congress; that the said line from the mouth of Pearl
river to the Gulf of Mexico dividing the Territory of Mississippi
from the State of Louisiana was never defined until the passage
of the act creating the State of Mississippi, when, for the first
time, the southern boundary of the Mississippi Territory, the
western part of which 'vas, by said act, made the State of Mississippi, was accurately defined and established as herein stated;
that the line above described and defined by the said Mississippi
acts, includes no islands which are within three leagues 6f the
Louisiana mainland and also in the Gulf of Mexico as the limits
VOL. ccii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

of the Gulf of Mexico are defined by the said State in her original bill herein."
That the State of Louisiana "claims title and sovereignty
over some of the islands belonging to the State of Mississippi
by virtue of certain alleged action of certain officers of the United States Government and local officers of the State of Louisiana," but the claim "is not well founded because of the matters herein set forth and because said islands and territory have
not been susceptible to actual use and occupation and because
said claim is in violation of sec. 3, art. IV, of the Constitution
of the United States.

.

.

."

But if the court should ad-

judge said islands and territory approved by the aforesaid officials to the State of Louisiana to belong to said State, then
cross-complainant prayed that the claim of title of Louisiana
thereto "be restricted to the real lands or islands so lost to the
State of Mississippi, and be in no case permitted to affect any
lands under the waters, or any of the public oyster reefs thereunder."
It was then alleged that Mississippi had "exercised sovereignty and jurisdiction over said waters within eighteen miles
of her shore aforesaid," and that by her statutes as codified in
1857 had asserted such jurisdiction.
And that by the legislation of Congress and the State, the
'Mississippi Sound' was recognized as a body of water,. six
leagues wide, wholly within the State of Mississippi, from Lake
Borgne to the Alabama line, separate and distinct from 'the
Gulf of Mexico.'
The cross bill further averred that Congress "in the early
history of the Republic, in dealing with the Gulf coast or
shore," was not perfectly familiar with the line, and by several
acts "creating the Gulf States, respectively, treated the said
Cilf coa-t or shore -s a line running generally from east to
west," and said States were, in the contemplation of Congress,
"so formed and bounded as to give to each State jurisdiction
over the waters adjacent to its shore or coast for a certain
specified distance southward from its mainland line; that it was

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Statement Of the Case.

not intended to give to any State jurisdiction over waters adjacent to and immediately south and in front of any other State
or Territory." But that the deep water channel line contended
for by Louisiana would tak&i nearly all of the Hancock County
water front, much of that of Harrison County, and possibly
some of that of Jackson County, over all which Mississippi had
exercised jurisdiction since her admission.
Reference was then made to the organization of Hancock and
Jackson Counties in December, 1812, and of Harrison County
in 1841; and to certain sections of the Revised Coae'of Mississippi of 1880 and a codification of 1892, making a general
reference to islands within six leagues of the Mississippi shore;
and it was charged that during all this time the government
of the Mississippi Territory and that of the State of Mississippi
had exercised full and complete jurisdiction and sovereignty
over the waters in the "Mississippi Sound" as a part of the
three counties aforesaid.
The prayer was, that it be decreed "that the. boundary line
dividing the States of Mississippi and Louisiana is the line
which, beginning at a point six leagues due south of that point on
the shore where the Alabama and Mississippi line enters the
Gulf of Mexico, runs westwardly with the meanderings of the
shore six leagues always therefrom until said line reaches and
touches the real mainland of Louisiana about two miles due
west of the 'Indian mound' and 'Lake of the Mound,' and
thence in an almost due northward direction along and on the
high tide mark of the said Louisiana mainland to Mississippi
Sbund at or near Nine Mile Bayou, and thence further along
said mainland at the high tide mark westwardly to that point
due south of the middle of the most southern, or eastern junction of Pearl river with Lake Borgne, and thence from said
point due north to the said Pearl river;' that the said line be
located and permanently buoyed at the joint expense of the
two States; that the full title and sovereignty over all the
islands and the land under the waters north and east of the
said line so established be decreed and adjudged to be in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
202 U. S.

Stateinent of the Case.

State of Mississippi, and that the State of Louisiana and her
citizens be perpetually enjoined from disputing such title and
sovereignty of the State of Mississippi. therein," and for costs
and general relief;
The following "Exhibit Map" was attached:

-'p

M"IfS.rS-VS"PPf
.VAI2VLAA7A

I

A-APZAV

'0oos

Ls

1

,,
tArrYtRta\

The State of Louisiqna filed replication, and also an answer
to the cross bill, the allegations of.which were in substance
denied.

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

As to the act of May 14, 1812, the State said that it could
not and did not change the boundaries of Louisiana, and, that,
in fact, the southern portion of the Mississippi-Territory as
claimed was not then in possession of the United States, and
did not extend south of the thirty-first degree of north latitude;
that February 12, 1812, an act was passed "authorizing the
President of the United States to take possession of a tract of
country lying south of the Mississippi Territory and west of the
river Perdido," but that this was not published until 1818;
nor were the resolution of January. 15 and act of March 3, 1811,
on the relations of the United States to Spain, published until
after April 20, 1818. 3 Stat. 471, 472.
The cause being at issue, much evidence, documentary and
otherwise, was taken' and the case was argued October 10, 11
and 12.
Mr. John Dymond, Jr., Mr. Francis C. Zacharie and Mr.
Walter Guion, Attorney General of the State of Louisiana, with
whom Mr. Alexander PorterMorse and Mr. Albert Estopinal,Jr.
were on the brief, for complainant:
The authority for bringing the suit is found in the act of the
legislature of Louisiana, No 65 of 1884 and in No. 26 of
1904, besides the general authority vested in the Governor and
state officers to defend and protect the interests and property
of the State. There exists a controversy between the two
States of great magnitude and involving great financial
interests.
The ownership of all the land that had not been previously
sold by the State and the ownership of all of the water area
in the disputed territory, being the bottoms of navigable waters
of the State, was vested iti and claimed by Louisiana in her
sovereign capacity and no individuals had any private rights
therein. This water area had a positive value of great magnitude. The State, under her oyster law was vested with the
ownership of these oyster water bottoms, and authorized to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

202 U. S.

rent them for the purposes of oyster cultivation for which she
received a direct rental through her oyster commission of one
dollar per acre per annum and a further revenue of two cents
per barrel from each barrel of oysters gathered, either from
these leased bedding grounds, or from the natural oyster reefs,
which were also her property in absolute ownership. The State
can rent them for $200,000 per annum and they are therefore
worth in the neighborhood of $5,000,000.
The control and possession of a considerable part of these
waters had become the subject of violent controversy and had
reached the point of an armed conflict and could only be settled
by resorting to this court. The jurisdiction is clear under the
previous rulings. Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 719;
The Wheeling Bridge Case, 13 How. 589; South Carolina v.
Georgia, 93 U. S. 381; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1; New
Jersey v. New York, 5 Pet. 284; Missouri V. Illinois, 180 U. S.
208; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125.
The State of Louisiana by the words of the law owns the
peninsula of St. Bernard in its entirety and the islands in dispute, together composing the disputed area. Act of April 6,
1812, and act of April 14, 1812. The act grants all islands
within three leagues of the coast and Louisiana therefore owns
the islands and waters lying north of the St. Bernard peninsula
and within nine miles from its coast. Mississippi's claim to
islands and territory eighteen miles from her shore is based on
a later act approved December 10, 1817. Congress could not
take away territory previously ceded to Louisiana and grant
it to Mississippi.
Further, it is a general rule, that where there are two conflicting titles, the elder shall be preferred. Broome's Legal
Maxims, 7th Am. ed. p. 355, with authorities in note 5. And
this principle has been frequently applied by this court in cases
of boundaries between States where the grants to the colonies
prior to the establishment of our Government have seemed to
conflict. No court acts differently in deciding on boundary
between States, than on lines between separate tracts of land,

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

and the rules and principles of equity equally apply between
States, as between individuals. Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,
12 Pet. 658.
Louisiana's title to the disputed area is also established by
the fact that the said area is south of and on the Louisiana side
of the deep water channel boundary line and as this deep water
channel sailing line is the correct water boundary between the
States at this point all land amd water south of it is the property of the State of Louisiana.
This deep water sailing channel line claimed by Louisiana as
the proper boundary between the two States exists to-day and
is shown on the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey of
that section.
The deep water channel is a boundary created by nature and
the soils separated by it and forming the limits of the two
States are of natural geological difference. Nature made the
deep water channel her boundary in this area and the subsequent enactments of man were but a confirmation of this basic
principle. Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479. On the Mississippi side the islands and shores are of sea sand formation
while those on the Louisiana side are alluvial.
The deep water sailing channel line is the boundary that
was recognized by England, France and Spain in their ancient
treaties affecting their separate interests in this country.
The adoption by the Congress of the United States, in the
creation of the State of Louisiana, of the line extending down
the Mississippi river to the river Iberville and thence through
the middle of Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain to the sea,
as one of the boundaries of that State was not a new line established for the first time but was in fact an affirmation of an
ancient line which in its extension to the open sea must follow
the deep water channel. The treaty of peace between England, France and Spain adopted February 10, 1716, article VII,
treats of the subject of the boundary line separating the dlominions of England and France inthe New World, and follows the
middle of the Iberville. Sec also treaty of February 10, 1.763,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

202 U. S.

between the same nations using practically the same language;
treaty of September 3, 1783, between England and Spain;
treaty of St. Ildefonso, October 1, 1800, between France and
Spain, and finally the cession of Louisiana to the United States
by France, April 30, 1803.
The deep water channel was in fact recognized by the Congress of the United States in its legislation and in the treaties
referring to this section of the country, as the proper boundary,
and according to which it divided it up. Act of March 28,
1804; act of February 20, 1811, using the same language employed in the treaties, "the middle of the river" Iberville.
The first extension of the territory of Mississippi south of 310
of north latitude was by act of May 14, 1812, over one month
after the creation of the State of Louisiana and at that time
the territory affected was not in the possession of the United
States. See act of February 13, 1813. But the State of Mississippi was not created until 1817 when for the first time is
mentioned the islands within six leagues of the shore.
The deep water sailing channel is the proper boundary line
between the two States recognized by all rules of international
law. "Coast" is the seaboard of a country and includes bordering islands. 6 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 171; The Anna,
C. Rob. 373.
Mr. Justice Story in Thomas v. Hatch, 3 Sumn. 178, defined
"shore" to be the space between the margin of the water at a
low stage, and the banks to be what it contains in its greatest
flow; Lord Hale defined it as synonymous with flat; Mr. Justice Parker does the same in.6 Massachusetts, 436, 439, and
Chief Justice Marshall described the shore of a river as bordering on the water's edge. Alabamav. Georgia, 23 How. 513.
"Thalweg" a term now universally used by international lawwriters to define water boundaries between States and Nations,
is a German word composed of two separate words, "thal," a
valley, and "weg," way, meaning the middle or the deepest or
most navigable channel. An English equivalent may be "fairway" or " midway ",or " main channel."

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

Where a navigable river forms the boundary of coterrainous
States, the middle of the channel-the filurn aquce or thalwegis generally taken as the line of their separation. 1 Halleck's
Int. Law, Baker's ed. p. 145, citing Gundling, Jus Nat., p. 248;
Wolfius, Jus Gentium, §§ 1.06-109; Stypmannus, Jus Marit.,
etc., cap. V, n. 476-552; Merlin, Repertoire, voc. "alluvium";
Rayneval, Droit de la Nature, tome I, p. 307; De Cussy, Droit
Maritime', liv. I, tit. II, §57; Rayneval, Inst. du Droit Nat.,
liv. II, ch. XI; Pothier, CEuvres de, tome X, pp. 87,88; Voet,
ad Pandects, tome I, pp. 606, 607; Heineccius, Recitaciones,
lib. II, tit. I, §§ 356-369; Las Siete Partidas, pt. III, tit.
XXVIII, L. 31; Gomez, E;lementos, lib. II, tit. IV, §3; Febrero Mexicana, tome I, p. 1131; Sala Mexicana, tome II, p. 62;
Justinian, Inst., lib. II, tit. I, Nos. 20-24; De Camp's Manuel
des Prop. Riv., passim; Chardon, Droit a' Alluvion, passim;
Grotius, De Jur. Bel. ac. Pac., lib. VII, ch. III, § 17; Ortolan
Domaine International, Nos. 85-93; Heffter, Droit Internati6nal, No. 69, note; Gunther, Europ. Volkerrecht, tit. II, p. 57;
Pestel, Commentarii de Repub. Batav. No. 268; Bowyer, Universal Public Law, ch. XXVIII; Riquelme, Derecho Pub. Int.,
lib. I, tit. I, ch. IV; Bello, Derecho Internacional, pt. I, cap. III;
Pando, Derecho Internacional, p. 99; Almeda, Derecho Publico, tome I, p. 199; Cushing, Opinions U. S. Att'ys Gen'l, vol.
VIII, p. 175; Crittenden, Opinions U. S. Att'ys Gen'l, vol. V,
pp. 264, 412; Puffendorf, De Jur. Nat. et Gent., lib. IV, ch. V,
§8; Wolfius, Jus Gentium, §§ 108, 109; Proudhon et Dumay,
Domaine Public, tome IV, ch. LVI, sec. 7. See also Baker's
Int. Law, p. 68; Bowen's Int. Law, p. 10; Creasy, Int. Law,
p. 221, citing Halleck, p. 138, Twiss, p. 201; Grotius, Lib. II,
ch. III, sec. 18; Klubn, sec., i33; Twiss, Law of Nations, citing
Grotius, lib. II, ch. III, §8; Puffendorf, lib. IV, ch. V, §8;
Hall, Int. Law, citing Grotius, lib. II, ch. III, § 18, Wolfius,
Jus Gentium, §§106, 107, Vattel, liv. LIV, ch. XXII,
§266, De Martens, Precis, No. 39, the Twee Gebroeders, 3,
Rob. 339, 340; Bluntschli, §§ 297, 298, 301; Twiss, .I,
§§ 143, 144; Droit des Gens, Rivier, see. 14; Droit des Gens,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

202 U. S.

De Martens, vol. 1, No. 39; Droit International, Fod6r6, § 657;
Devoe Mfg. Co., .108 U. S. 401; Moore, Int. Arb., vol, 1, p. 229,
where the decision of the San Juan water boundary dispute is
found; the boundaries of the various bordering States on the
Danube, State Papers, 1878, 1879, vol. 70, p. 514 et. seq.; the
Detroit river boundary, Gannett's Boundaries, 3d ed. p. 12;
the Alaskan boundary case, Foreign Relations, 1903, p. 544.
Louisiana's title to the disputed territory is confirmed by
prescription, usucaption, acquiescence, and specific acknowledgment by the State of Mississippi.
The surveys of this territory were made by the United States
Government about the year 1842 and all lands to the channel
were credited to Louisiana.
Under the Swamp Land Acts of 1849 and 1850 all lands
selected by Louisiana south of the channel were approved by the
Government and portions of them were subsequently sold by
Louisiana to individuals at different times down to 1894.
The disputed territory has always been subject to the sovereignty of Louisiana and has yielded taxes to her exclusively
according to the assessments laid by her officers.
All of the Departments of.the Government in interpreting
the acts of Congress have accredited the disputed territory to
Louisiana.
The State of Mississippi has recognized the disputed territory
as being the property of the State of Louisiana, and her present
boundary pretension is but a matter of recent creation after
long years of recognition of, and acquiescence in, Louisiana's
ownership and sovereignty.
It was only after the oyster fishermen of Mississippi by their
wasteful system of fishing had either fished up or destroyed all
of the Mississippi oysters of any value that these fishermen began to invade Louisiana Waters in search of them. Until recent
years the Louisiana fisheries were open to all, but are now
closed to all except her citizens. It was the exercise of this
right that incurred Mississippi's displeasure and brought about
this suit. That State made no claim to the territory under the

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

Swamp Acts and it was granted to Louisiana by the Government.
In 1839 a survey of the Mississippi coast was made pursuant
to an act of its legislature. This survey and the report accompanying the same show the deep water channel and credit the
territory south of it to Louisiana. The official maps made and
supplied by the State to county officers pursuant to the acts
of 1866 and 1871 are to- the same effect. See also map published by the board of immigration and agriculture of Mississippi
under act of 1882.
The doctrine of ownership by prescription is fully sustained
by the writers on international law and by the decisions. Pradier Fod~r6, tome II, p, 337, citing and reviewing all the authorities; the Delagoa Bay dispute, State Papers, vol. 66,
1874, 1875, p. 554; the Great Britain-Venezuela dispute,
Moore's Int. Arb. vol. 5, p. 5017; Keyser v. Coe, 9 Blatch. 32;
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,4 How. 638; Missouri v. Kentucky, 11 Wall. 403; Kentucky v. Indiana, 136 U. S.511 Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S.522.
Mr. Hannis Taylor, Mr. J. N. Flowers and Mr. Monroe
McClurg, with whom Mr. William Williams, Attorney General
of the State of Mississippi, was on the brief, for defendant:
The action of Congress from 1812 to 1819 in carving out of
the Louisiana Purchase and the Mississippi Territory the States
of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, giving each a portion
of the sea front shows the execution of a common design. The
different acts so far as they may be in apparent conflict, must
be construed together. 26 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed.
620; Alexander v. Alexandria, .5 Cranch) 8; Patterson v. Winn,
14 Pet. 366; United States v. Freeman, 3 How. 563; Converse
v. United States, 21 How. 463; United States v. Walker, 22 How.
299; Ryan v. Carter, 93 U. S.78; Vane v. Newcombe, 132 U. S.
220.
In connection with the foregoing the court must apply the
equally important rule that, where a particular construction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant.

202 U. S.

a statute- will occasion great inconvenience or produce inequality and injustice, that view is to be avoided if another and more
reasonable interpretation is present in the statute. Bate RefrigeratingCo. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 37; Wilson v. Rousseau,
4 How. 646, 680; Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 How. 539, 553;
Blake v. National Banks, 23 Wall. 307, 320; United States v.
Kirby, 7 Wall. 482, 486; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 77.
All laws should receive a sensible construction. General terms
should be so limited in their application as not to lead to injustice, oppression, or absurd consequence. It will always,
therefore, be presumed that the legislature intended exceptions
to its language, which would avoid results of this character.
The reason of the law, in such cases, should prevail over its
letter. United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482.
In order to understand the controlling reason underlying the
three acts in question considered as one connected whole, there
must be taken into consideration the physical conformation and
relative extent of the sea front, which they attempted to apportion, as equally as possible,'among the States of Louisiana,
Mississippi and Alabama. It is well settled that caurts will
take judicial notice of the prominent geographical facts and.
features of the country. -The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362; The Montello, 11 Wall. 411. A court will also take judicial notice of the
positions of islands off the coast of a State. State v. Wagner,
61 Maine, 178. The court has therefore complete judicial
knowledge of the geography of the sea front in question, and
of the positions of the islands adjacent thereto, to whose partition the three related acts must be applied. To the States of
Mississippi and Alabama were given, in identical language, all
islands "within six leagues of the shore," and to Louisiana
"all islands within three leagues of the coast," the conclusion
is irresistible that the wider zone of islands given to the States
first named was intended to compensate for the fact that
the latter has more than four times as long a sea front as both
combined. Everything indicates the intention of Congress to
give to each of the three States in question the islands directly

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

in front of it; and to the first two a zone of islands twice as
wide as that given to the latter for the reason stated. The
rule of construction which provides that statutes shall be so
construed that they shall not "produce inequality and injustice" is based upon the assumption that legislatures always
intend by their acts to establish equality and justice. In this
case full justice and equality could not be accorded either to
Mississippi or Alabama, even by the grant of the wider zones of
islands, because of the far more extended sea front of Louisiana.
There is a well defined international rule which provides that
where there is more than one channel in a river dividing coterminous States, the deepest channel is the mid-channel or
thalweg for the purposes of territorial demarcation. Grotius,
De Jure Belli ac Pacis, II, c. 3, sec. 17; Vattel, Droit des Gens,
Bk. I, c. XXII, sec. 26. This general rule has no application
to a case governed by a special rule established by convention,
or by a special right based on prior possession. Twiss, Int.
Lawyp. 127; 1 lIalleck, Int. ]Law (Baker's ed.), p. 171. It appears from these authorities that the rule in question is confined to the mid-channel or thalweg of rivers, or to a midchannel which forms the line of separation through the bays
and estuaries through which the waters of the river flow into
the sea. The moment the sea is reached, or a body of water
which is a part of the sea, the rule is at end.
The attempt to extend the rule beyond the estuaries of the
.river into the open sea, that is, into the open waters of the Gulf
of Mexico, cannot be supported either by reason or authority.
Not by reason, because the wide expanse of water, unconfined
between banks, utterly fails to serve as a boundary; not by
authority, because there is no precedent for such an extension
of the rule in any work on international law.
Whenever it is necessary for two contiguous States to run a
.water boundary through an archipelago of islands off their
coasts it is only possible to do so by convention, as international law provides no rule upon the subject. For that reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant.

202 U. S.

Great Britain and the United States, in the famous treaty of
1846, stipulated that the line between them should be continued
westward along the forty-ninth parallel of north latitude "to
the middle -of the channel which separates the continent from
Vancouver's Island, and thence southerly, through the middle
of said channel and of' Fuca's Straits .to the Pacific Ocean."
The Emperor of Germany was called upon, as arbitrator, to
decide- "whether the boundary line which,, according to the
Treaty of Washington of June 15, 1846, after being carried
westward along the forty-ninth parallel of northern latitude to
the middle of the channel which separates the continent from
Vancouver's Island is thence to be drawn southerly throughthe middle of the said named channel and of the Fuca Straits
to- the Pacific Ocean, should be drawn through the Rosario
Channel as the Government of Her Britannic Majesty claims,
or through the Haro Channel as the Government of the United
States claims." There was no pretense of the existence of any
such general rule of international law or "custom" as complainant claims in this case. Only .the conventional rule laid
down in the treaty was contended for by either side, and its
construction was the only subject of the award.
By the express terms of the acts, Congress established a definite land boundary for the State of Louisiana. A special rule
having been thus established by competent authority, a general rule, even if such a one existed could not be invbked.
General rules of international law are never applied under such
circumstances. See Grotius, De Jure Belli
"Pacis, II, c. 3;
Bluntschli, XV, 2; Martens,, Precis, sec. 119, p. 320; Calvo,
Droit Int., I, sec. 19, p. 109; Phillimore, Int. Law, I, pp. 44, 45
(2d ed. London); 1 Twiss, Law of Nations, pp. 130, 131; Lawrence's Wheat., p. 28; 1 Halleck, Int. Law, (Baker's ed.), p. 50;
Lorimer, Ins. of Int. Law, I, p. 43.
Physical geography simply reproduces the actual coast lines
of maritime States, as they are defined by nature at the point
of contact of the sea with the land, while the political coast
line, superimposed upon it by operation of international law,

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

is vastly shorter by reason of the fact that the artificial and
imaginary line cuts across the heads of bays and inlets. The
natural coast line, as known to physical geography, exists primarily for the purposes of boundary. The artificial coast line,
as known to international law, exists only for the purposes of
jurisdiction. Rivier, Principes du Droit des Gens, vol. [, pp.
145, 146, 170.
Both in their popular and technical senses "coast' and
"shore''are identical and convertible terms: 4 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, 2d ed. p. 818. See United States v. Pacheco, 2
Wall. 587; Farnham on Waters, vol. 2, p. 1463 and vol. 1,
p. 227. The word "shore" is also used in admittiAg Alabama.
An island is a body of land surrounded by water. 17 Am. &
Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed. p. 530. A body of land continually
covered by water is not an island. Weber v. Pere Marquette
Boom Co., 62 Michigan, 626. It does not lose its character by
being almost submerged at high tide.. De Guyer v. Banning,
167 U. S. 723. As to erosion and submergence, see Widdicombe v. Rosemiller, 118 Fed. Rep. 295. It is necessary that
a strip of navigable water should separate it from the mainland. Dumphry v. Williams, 2 Pugsley (N. B.), 350; King
v. Young, 76 Maine, 76; American River Water Co. v. Amsden,
6 California,: 443; Attorney General v. Woods, 108 Massachusetts, 436; Grand Rapids v. Powers, 89 Michigan, 94; Bamphrey
v. State, 52 Minnesota, 181.
The business of a cartographer, or map-maker, is to describe
land forms, not to settle titles of particular sovereignties to
particular parts of the earth's surface. The value of every
Map depends upon two factors: first, the completeness of the
data out of which it is constructed; second, the skill of the
cartographer in working such data into an harmonious whole.
Early maps, which are necessarily based upon incomplete data,
are almost invariably misleading guides. For that reason, international jurists generally regard such maps as of little or no
value in boundary controversies. The great English jurist,
Sir Travers Twiss, in speaking of the uselessness of maps in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant.

202 U. S.

investigation of boundary questions, has even regretted that
they are ever appealed to at all. See Greenhow's History of
Oregon and California, p. 437, note; United States v. Texas,
162 U. S. 1.

There is nothing in the Swamp Land Act to give color to the
idea'suggested in the bill, that Congress, as well as the various
departments of the United States Government, having authority in the premises, have themselves recognized the boundary
line contended for by Louisiana by reason of the fact that the
United States Government has confirmed to the State of
Louisiana; the lands composing Half Moon Island, etc. So far
from there being the slightest foundation of truth for that suggestion the fact is that the act in question undertook to give
to complainant as a donation certain lands which, by her application for them,, she admitted belonged, not to her, but to
the United States.
If defendant's contention is sound that the islands in question were conveyed to her by an express grant upon her admission to the Union in 1817, then the subsequent, act of
March 2, 1849, purporting to donate-certain swamp and overflowed lands to complainant can have no possible operation for
the simple reason that the United States had, at the iate of
said act, neither title nor interest. Grants made by a legislature are not warranties; and if the thing granted was not in
the grantor at the time of the grant, no estate passes to her
grantee. Rice v. Minn. & N. W. R. R. Co., 1 Black, 358; Polk
V. Wendal, 9 Cranch, 87. If that be true, then the ex parte
proceeding of the Secretary of the Interior in 1852 was simply
null and void as an attempt to take away a part of the domain
of a State without the consent of its legislature. Art. IV, § 3,
Const. U. S.
The doctrine of acquiescence does not apply to wild and unsettled lands such as were those in dispute. The assertion of
sovereignty by Louisiana practically dates from the act of its
legislature of 1902 relating to the dredging of oysters. Mississippi has never acquiesced in the claims of Louisiana but on

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the contrary has exercised sovereignty over the disputed territory in many ways, e. g., its courts in 1821 convicted for robbery; an inquest was held upon a body found in the waters of
Isle A Pitre in 1886; in 1893 an arrest was made for violations
of oyster laws in these waters. The legislature in 1857 passed
an oyster and game law covering the territory in question,
which was embodied in the Revised Statutes of the State for
1871, 1880 and 1892.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The demurrer was overruled because the court was of opinion
that the bill presented a prima facie case of justiciable controversy between the State of Louisiana and the State of Mississippi as to the boundary line between them, and we are clear
that the proofs establish the existence of such a controversy
as to fully sustain our jurisdiction.
It is apparent that the enforcement of the oyster legislation
of the two States led to a conflict between -the authorities of
both, which involved a dispute as to the true boundary line.
In 1886 the State of Louisiana passed an act vesting the
power to control the oyster industry in the hands of the officials
of the parishes of the State in their several localities, along
general lines laid down in the law; Laws Louisiana, 1886, Act
No. 106. This was followed by the acts of 1892 (No. 110),
1896 (No. 121), and 1900 (No. 159). By the act of 1896 nonresident oyster fishermen were prohibited from fishing oysters
in Louisiana waters, and the dredging of oysters was also prohibited, in this particular differing from the laws of Mississippi,
which permitted it. By a concurrent resolution of 1900 a Legislative Commission was created to investigate and report on
the oyster industry of the 'State.
In January, 1898, the parochial authorities of the parish of
St. Bernard equipped and sent out an official expedition to
exclude from the oyster waters of the parish any non-resident
VOL. CCIi-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Coiit.

202 U. S.

oyster fishermen who might be found fishing therein. Nonresident Mississippi oystermen were found fishing oysters there,
and they were notified that they must stop fishing and move
out of those waters. Thes6 Mississippians then complained to
the Mississippi authorities and a conference ensued between representatives of the parish of St. Bernard and the county of
Hancock.. In January, 1901, at the instance of the Louisiana
Legislative Commission appointed under the act of 1900, and
of committees appointed from the police juries of the Louisiana
parishes of St. Bernard and Plaquenmines, a meeting of the
state officials of Louisiana was held in New Orleans to consider
the subject of the dispute with the State of Mississippi, and the
invasion by non-residents of the Louisiana oyster waters. This
meeting resulted in the appointment by the Governor of Louisiana of a commission of five members, and an official communication from the Governor of Louisiana addressed to the Governor of Mississippi requesting the latter to appoint a similar
commission to see if it were possible- to effect an amicable settlement of the dispute between the two States. This Mississippi commission was accordingly appointed, and the two commissions held a joint conference in New Orleans in March, 1901.
Louisiana presented at the conference a map showing the Louisiana contention as to the boundary, which is the map attached
to the bill and marked Exhibit E. The Mississippi commission
reported that it was impossible to effect an amicable extrajudicial settlement of the dispute, and that the only hope of
settlement was a friendly suit in the Supreme Court of the
United States. This report was submitted by the Mississippi
commission to the Governor of Mississippi and was transmitted
to the legislature of that State. At this session the State of
Mississippi passed a new law controlling her oyster waters and
oyster industry. Laws, 1902, c. 58. This act created a state
oyster commission, vested with entire control of the Mississippi
oyster industry. It took the control of the industry out of
the hands of the coast county authorities and centralized it
in this state department, which was authorized to establish a

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

system of patrol of the Mississippi oyster waters and to maintain patrol boats to sustain the oyster laws in her territory. In
July, 1902, the State of Louisiana followed the example of the
State of Mississippi and adopted an act, Acts 1902, No. 153,
creating a state oyster commission of Louisiana as a state department vested with full control of the oyster industry of
Louisiana, and authorized to establish patrol boats and maintain an armed patrol on the Louisiana oyster waters to protect her rights in the oyster industry therein. In view of the
danger of an armed conflict, the Oyster Commissions of both
States, in September, 1902, adopted a joint resolution establishing a neutral territory between the two States "pending the
final decision by the Supreme Court of the United States in
the boundary suit to be instituted," to remain a common fishing ground. This modus vivendi did not include all of the disputed territory, but the waters of Mississippi Sound between
the deep water channel and the north shore line of the Louisiana marshes were embraced by it.
In the following October this bill was filed. Louisiana appeared through her Governor and her Attorney General, and
the action of the Governor in instituting the suit was subsequently approved, ratified and confirmed by the legislature.
The facts that the act of Congress admitting the State of
Louisiana gave that State all islands within three leagues or
nine miles of her coast, and that the subsequent act of Congress
admitting the State of Mississippi purported to give that State
all islands within six leagues or eighteen miles of her shore,
and that some islands within nine miles of the Louisiana coast
were also within eighteen miles of the Mississippi shore, furnished the basis for a boundary controversy, although, in our
judgment, the apparent inconsistency is reconcilable, as hereinafter explained. And that controversy involved to each
State pecuniary values of magnitude, as is shown by the evidence on both sides. We think that there existed between the
two States, in their sovereign capacity as States, a controversy
affecting the boundary line separating them in the locality in

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

question of a character to justify the exercise of our original
jurisdiction within the rules laid down in Missouri v. Illinois,
200 U. S. 496; S. C., 180 U. S. 208; Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling
Bridge Company, 13 How. 518, 589; Louisiana v. Texas, 176
U. S. 1; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125.
2. The State of Louisiana was admitted into the Union by
the act of Congress approved April 6, 1812, 2 Stat. 701, c. 50,
which -commenced as follows:
"Whereas, the representatives of the people of all that part
of the. territory or country ceded under the name of 'Louisiana'
by the treaty at Paris on the thirtieth day of April, one thousand eight hundred and three, between the United States and
France, contained within the following limits, that is to say:
Beginning at the mouth of the river Sabine; thence, by a line
to be drawn along the middle of said river, including all islands,
to the thirty-second degree of latitude; thence due north to
the northernmost part of the thirty-third degree of north latitude; thence along said parallel of latitude to the river Mississippi; thence, down the said river, to the river Iberville;
and from thence, along the middle of'the said river, and Lakes
Maurepas and' Pontchartrain, to the Gulf of Mexico; thence,
bounded by the said Gulf, to the place of beginning, including
all islands within three leagues of the coast;
.
• Map or diagram No. 1 (ante p. 4), given' in the opening
statement, shows the limits as thus defined.
By an act of Congress approved April 14, 1812, 2 Stat. 708,
c. 57, additional territory was added to the State of Louisiana,
described thus:
"All that tract of country comprehended within the following bounds, to wit: Beginning at the junction of the Iberville,
with the river Mississippi;. thence along the middle of the Iberville, the river Amite, and the Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain to the eastern mouth of the Pearl river; thence up the
eastern branch of Pearl river to the thirty-first degree of north
latitude; thence along the said degree of latitude to the river
Mississippi; thence down the said river to the place of be-

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ginning, shall become and form a part of the said State of
Louisiana, and be subject to the constitution and laws
thereof, in the same manner, and for all intents and purposes,
as if it had been included within the original boundaries of the
said State."
This added territory is shown on map or diagram No. 2
(ante p. 5). The eastern boundary of Louisiana was thereby
moved eastward from the Mississippi to Pearl river, and
Louisiana was given the country south of the thirty-first
degree of north latitude, and north of the boundary formed by
the river Iberville, the middle of Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain and the Rigolets.
The river Iberville is called on this map Bayou Manchae, and
is still known by that name. The Rigolets is a gut connecting
the waters of Lakes Pontchartrain and Borgne, both of which
are bodies of salt water and were originally arms of the sea.
In order to reach the open waters of the Gulf of Mexico from
the middle of Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain the line ran
through the Rigolets into Lake Borgne, and. after the addition
to the State by the act of April 14, 1812, the eastern boundary
line of Louisiana entered Lake Borgne to the south by Pearl
river as well as the Rigolets. To get from Lake Borgne into
the open water of the Gulf of Mexico beyond Chandeleur Islands and around to the western boundary of Louisiana, it was
necessary, as Louisiana contends, to follow the deep water
channel north of Half Moon or Grand Island, through Mississippi Sound, and thence by the pass between Cat Island and
Isle . Pitre, north of the Chandeleur Islands, into the open
Gulf. Many. maps are given in the record, some made at-dates
long"Orior tot-the adihission of Louisiana as a State, some at
that time, and sone'within', few years thereafter, and -all show
the St. Bernard -peninsula to be 'geographically a true part of
the State of'Louisiana, or--of an area of country that was to
form the State, and that the said peninsula projected itself as
a well-deined arm'of land -out into the waters of the Gulf,
branching off as a projection ffdrii th-6 main body of land corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

posing the State, and forming a part of it. We observe that on
many of these early maps the term "peninsula" is applied to
this projection, and that designation is sufficiently accurate for
the purpose of description.
November 14, .1803, President Jefferson sent a communicai n to Congress, in which, among other things, he said:
, "The object of the following pages is t6 consolidate the information respecting the present State of Louisiana, furnished
to. the Executive, by several individuals among the best
informed on the subject.
"Of the province of Louisiana no general map, sufficiently
correct to be depended upon, has been published, nor has any
been yet procured from a private source. It is, indeed, probable that surveys have never been made upon so extensive a
scale as to afford the means of laying down the various regions
of a country which in some of its parts appears to have been
but imperfectly explored.
"St. Bernardo.
"On the east side of the Mississippi, about five leagues below
New Orleans, and at the head of the English Bend, is a settlement known by the name of the Poblacion de St. Bernardo, or
the Terre au Bceufs, extending on both sides of a creek or drain,
whose head is contiguous to the Mississippi, and which flowing
eastward, after a course of eighteen leagues, and dividing itself
into two branches, falls into the sea and Lake Borgne. This
settlement consists of two parishes),. almost all the inhabitants
of which are Spaniards from. the Canaries, who content themselves with raising fowls, corn anOi.garden stuff for the market
at New Orleans. The lands cannot be cultivated to any great
distance from the banks. of, the creek, on account of the vicinity
,of the marsh behind them, but the place is susceptible of great
improvement, and of affording another communication to small
craft of from eight to ten feet draught, between the sea and the
Mississippi."
"Country from Plaquemin- to the sea, and effect of the.
ihurrioanes:

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202:U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"From Plaauemins to the seais twelve or thirteen leaues.
The country is low, swampy, chiefly covered with reeds, and
having little or no timber, and no settlement, whatever. It
may be necessary to mention here, that the whole lower part
of the country, from the English Turn downwards, is. subject
to overflowing in hurricanes, either by the recoiling of the river,
or reflux from the sea on each side; and, on more than one
occasion, it has been covered from the depth of two to ten feet,
according to the descent of the river, whereby many lives were
lost, horses and cattle swept away, and a scene of destruction
laid.. 'The last calamity of this kind happened in 1794, but
fortunately they are not frequent. In' the preceding yeax the
engineer who superintended the erection of the fort at Plaquemines was drowned in his house near the fort, and the workmen and garrison escaped oni[y by taking refuge on an elevated
spot in the fort, on which there were notwithstanding two or
three feet of water. These hurricanes have generally been felt
in the month of August. Their greatest fury lasts about twelve
hours. They commence in the southeast, veer about to all the
points of the compass.;are felt most severely below, and seldom
extend more than a few leagues above New Orleans. in their
whole course they are marked 'with ruin and desolation. Until
that of 1793, there had been none felt from the year 1780."
This communication -was, of course, before Congress when the
act of 1812, admitting Louisiana, was approved, and the peninsula was clearly recognized as forming part of the parish of
St. Bernard, as was its marshy character and that of the adjoining parish.
By the act of Congress, approved March 1, 1817, 3 Stat. 348,
c. 23, the inhabitants of the western part of the then Mississippi
Territory were authorized to form for themselves a state con-.
stitution and to be admitted into the Union with the following
boundaries: "Beginning on the river Mississippi at the point
where the southern boundary .line of the State of Tennessee
strikes the same; thence east along the said boundary ine to
the Tennessee river; thence up the same to the mouthiof Bear

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

creek; thence by a direct line to the northwest corner of_ the
e~ut--f-WAShngton';-thence -duesout h-to-the-Gdlf of Mexico;
thence westwardly, including all the islands within six leagues
.of the shore, to the most eastern junction of Pearl river ith
Lake Borgne; thence up said river to the thirty-first degree of
north latitude; thence west along the said degree of latitude
to the Mississippi river; thence up the same to the beginning."
The people in convention, August 15, 1817, formed a con; stitution and state government (approved subsequently by
popular vote), and the State Was admitted by resolution December 10, 1817, 3 Stat. 472.
The State of Alabama was- admitted by the act of March 2,
1819, 3 Stat. 489, c. 47, which provided:" "That the said State
shall consist of all the territory included within the following.
boundaries, to wit: Beginning at the point where the thirty-first
degree 'of north latitude intersects the Perdido river; thence,
'east, to the western boundary line of' the State of Georgia;
thence along said line, to the southern boundary line of the
State 'of Tennessee; thence, west, alonig' said boundary line, 'to
the" Tennessee river; thence, up :the same, to the mouth of
-Bear creek; thence,'by a direct line, to the northwest corner
of Washington county; thenc6, due'south'to the Gulf of Mexico; thence, eastwardly, including - all'the- islands 'withiu' six
leAgues of the' shore, 'to 'the Perdido river; and thence, up the
same to the beginning."
The islands, marsh or otherwise, claimed by Louisiana in this
case:.were all within three leagues of her coast. The act admitting Mississippi was' passed five years after the Louisiana
act, yet Mississippi claims thereunder the disputed territory,
as being islands within eighteen miles of her shore. If it were
true that this repugnancy between the two acts existed, it-is
enough to say that Congress, after the admission of Louisiana:;
could. not take away any portion of that State and give it to
the-State of Mississippi. The rule, Qui prior est tempore, potior
in jiure, ajpluicd; and section threeof article IV-of the Constitution does 'not permittthe' cl.aimsof-,anypartixular.State to be

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U.S.

Opinion of the Opurt.

prejudiced by the exercise of the power of Congress therein
conferred.
But.it is said that the act admitting Louisiana, the act admitting Mississippi, and the act admitting Alabama mut be
construed as in pari materia; and, being so construed, that
Congress must be held'to have had in view in the three acts a
division-of the coast along the Gulf of Mexico so as to equalize
the water frontage of Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama.
We do not regard these acts as in pari materia in any proper
sense.. They provided for. the admission of "thiee. separate
States, and the subject of each was not only not. identical with,
but not even similar to, that of the others. They did not form
part of a homogeneous whole, .of a common system, so as to
allow a claimant i*der the later act to successfully contend
that it changed the earlier act by construction or effected such
change because -declaratory of the meaning of the prior act.
And assuming for the sake of argument that the Louisiana
and Mississippi acts were irrecoucilably inconsistent, but remembering that when Louisiana was admitted into the Union,
the territory now composing the coast counties of Mississippi,
that is, below the thirty-first degree of north latitude, was not
actually a part of the Mississippi Territory but was in dispute
between the United States and Spain, the theory of any preconcerted design in regard to the water front of the two States
is too unreasonable to be ente rtained.
In the treaty of peace between England, France and Spain of
February 10, 1716, Article VII, on the subject of the boundary
line separating the dominions of England and France in the
New World, provided: "That for the futur the confines between the dominions of His 1rittanic Majesty and those of His
Most Christian Majesty in that part of the world shall be fixed
irrevocably by a line drawn along the river Mississippi from its
source to the river Iberville, and from thence by a line drawn
along the middle of this river and the Lakes Maurepas and
Pontchartrain to the sea." According to this treaty England
retained the port of Mobile and its river and everything east

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

of the Rigolets. The Island of Orleans, formed by the river
Iberville, Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain, the Rigolets, the
Gulf of Mexico and the Mississippi river, remained the property of France. In the treaty of February 10, 1763, practically.the same language is used in describing the boundary line
,separating the British from the French territory, and by the
twentieth article the cession to England of Florida by Spain
and all that Spain possessed on the continent of North America
was provided for. By the treaty of September 3, 1783, between England and Spain, England retroceded East and West
Florida to Spain. By the treaty of St. Ildefonso of October 1,
1800, Spain ceded to France "the colony or province of Louisiana with the same extent that it now has in the hands of Spain,
and that it had when France possessed it, and such as-it should
be after the treaties subsequently entered into between Spain
and other States." April 30, 1803, France ceded to the.United
States "the colony or province of Louisiana," using the same
,description as used by Spain in ceding the territory to her, and
stating in Article II "In the cession made in. the preceding
article are included -the adjacent islands belonging to
Louisiana.
There is nothing in any of these transfers to raise a doubt
that the peninsula of St. Bernard was part of the Island of
Orleans and that this Island of Orleans was in fact formed by
the extension to the sea of the boundary line coming doyen
through the middle of Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain and
so fiiading its way to the sea by the deep water channel.
March 26, 1804, an act of. Congress was approved, dividing
the country acquired as Louisiana from France into two parts,
providing:
"That all that portion of the country ceded by France to
the United ,States, ;under the name of Louisiana, which lies
south of the Mississippi Territory and of an cast and west line
to commence on the Mississippi river, at the thirty-third degree
of north latitude, and to extend west to the western boundary
of the said cession, shall constitute a Territory of the United

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States under the name of the Territory of Orleans; the government whereof shall be organized and administered as follows:
*

.*

*

*

*

*

*

*

12. The residue of the Province of Louisiana,
ceded to the United States, shall be called the District of Louisiana, the government whereof 'shall be organized and administered as follows:
"
Congress manifestly regarded the lands to the east, that were
south of the Mississippi Territory, and which form the disputed
area of to-day, as part of the original Island of Orleans, included in the treaty of April 30, 1803; and these were given
to the Territory of Orleans, Whose southeastern boundary was
the original southeastern' boundary. of the Island of Orleans.
At that date the Mississippi Territory did not extend south of
the thirty-first degree of north latitude and its domain did not
reach the shore of Mississippi Sound, so called.
February 20, 1811, 2 Stat. 641, c.' 21, an act of Congress was
approved "to enable the people of the Territory of Orleans to
form a constitution and state government, and for the admission of such State into the Union, on an equal footing with the
original States, and for other purposes." The description of
the limits was as follows: " Beginning at the mouth of the
river Sabine, thence, by a line to be drawn along the middle of
the said river, including all islands to the thirty-second degree
of latitude; thence due north to the northernmost part of the
thirty-third degree of north latitude; thence along said parallel
of latitude to the river Mississippi; thence down the said river
to the river Iberville; and from thence along the middle of the
said river and Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain, to the Gulf
of Mexico; thence bounded by said. Gulf, to the place of beginning: including all islands within three leagues of the coast,"
etc.
The eastern boundary thus described is a water boundary,
and, in extending this water boundary to the open sea or Gulf
of Mexico, we think it included the Rigolets and the deep water
sailing channel line to get ar:ound to the westward. A little
"SECTION

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

over one year later Louisiana was created a State by the act of
Congress of April 6, 1812, with this identical eastern boundary
line; and the addition of territory by the act of April 14, 1812,
did not affect the deep water sailing channel line as a boundary.
April 7, 1798, 1 Stat. 549, c. 28, an act was approved "for
an amicable settlement of limits with the State of Georgia,
and authorizing the establishment of a government in the Mississippi Territory," which read in part: "That all that tract
of country bounded on the west by the Mississippi; on the
north by a line to be drawn due east from the mouth of the
Yasous to the Chatahouchee river; on the east by the river
Chatahouchee; and on the south by the thirty-first degree of
north latitude, shall be, and hereby is constituted one district,
to be called the Mississippi Territory." This was in conformity with the treaty between Spain and the United States of
October 27, 1795. Maps of that date, and subsequently, show'
that the admitted rights of the United States did not at the
time extend south of the thirty-first degree of north latitude
at that point.
By an act of January 15, 1811, the President of the United
States was authorized, among other things, in the event that
any foreign government attempted to occupy. the same, to take
possession of the country lying east of the river Perdido, and
south of the State of Georgia and the Mississippi Territory.
The river Perdido is in the State of Alabama, east of the State
of Mississippi, and flows into 'the Gulf of' Mexico between Mobile Bay in Alabama and Pensacola Bay in Florida. A few
days later, and on March 3, 1811, an act of Congress was approved, providing that the act of January 15, 1811, and this
act, should not be published until the end of the next session
of Congress, unless with the consent of the President.
By resolution approved January 15, 1811, it was specifically
declared that the United States could not without serious inquietude see any part of the territory adjoining the southern
border 'of the United States pass into the hands of any foreign
power, "and that a due regard to their own safety compels

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

45

Opinion (of
the Court.

them to provide, under certain contingencies, for the temporary
occupation of the said territory." 3 Stat. 471.
May 14, 1812, an act of Congress was passed, 2 Stat. 734,
c. 84, to enlarge the boundaries of the Mississippi Territory,
which used the following language: "That all that portion of
the territory lying east of Pearl river, west of the Perdido, and
south of the thirty-first degree of latitude, be, and the same is
hereby annexed to the Mississippi Territory," etc. The country described was not at the time in the possession of the United
States, and on February 12, 1812, Congress passed an act "authorizing the President of the United States to take possession
of a tract of country lying south of the Mississippi Territory
and west of the river Perdido," which act referred to the tract
as "not now in the possession of the United States.". 3 Stat.
472. But it was not until the enabling act in respect of Mississippi, approved March 1, 1817, that the language was used:
"Thence (lue south to the Gulf of Mexico, thence westwardly, including all the islands within six leagues of the

shore, to the most eastern junction of Pearl river and Lake
Borgne, " etc.

The claim of Mississippi is that the disputed area is composed
of islands, and as those islands are within eighteen miles of her
shore, that they were given to her by the act of March 1, and

the resolution of December 10, 1817.1 It is true there are some
islands in that area, such as Grassy, Half Moon, Petit Pass and

Isle A Pitre, all of which are between the deep water channel
on the north and the main coast line of St. Bernard peninsula
on the south.
The contention of Louisiana is that these islands were previously given to her by the act of April 6, 1812, more than five
years prior to the admiission cf Misissippi, 'and that her title
thereto, even if the acts were in con flict, is superior to that of
the State of Mississippi; and she also contends that the islands
belong to her because they arc south of the deep water sailing
channel line, which she submits is the true boundary line between the two States. Mississippi denies that the peninsula

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion, of the Court.

202 U. S.

of St. Bernard and the Louisiana Marshes constitute a peninsula in the true sense of the word, but insists that they constitute an archipelago of islands. Certainly there are in the body
of the Louisiana Marshes or St. Bernard peninsula portions of
sea marsh which might technically be called islands, because
they are land entirely surrounded by water, but they are not
true islands. They are rather, .as the Commissioner of the
General Land Office wrote the Mississippi land commissioner in
1904, "in fact, hummocks of land surrounded by the marsh
and swamp in said townships.
And when the Louisiana act used the words: "thence bounded
by the said Gulf to the place of beginning, including all islands
within three leagues of the coast," the coast referred to is the
whole coast of the State, and the peninsula of St. Bernard
formed ai- integral part of it. Lake Borgne and Mississippi
Sound are bodies of salt water and as such parts of the sea or
Gulf, and as the coast of Louisiana began along the north shore
of the peninsula, it is not to be supposed that the islands referred to by Congress in the Louisiana act were solely those
islands to the south of that State.
The contention of Mississippi is based upon an assumed inconsistency between the Louisiana and the Mississippi acts, but
We think upon a true interpretation, in the light of the facts,
that no such inconsistency can be imputed. The maps show
that there is a chain, not of alluvial but of sea sand islands
running froim the west shore of Mobile Bay in the State of
Alabama, westward to and inclusive of Cat Island in the State
of Mississippi. This chain forms the southern boundary of
Mississippi Sound, and the islands are all relatively the same
distance from the shore of the States of Mississippi and of Alabama. They, beginning at the eastern end, are Dauphin, Petit
Bois, Born, Ship and Cat Islands, and there are some other
islands lying within this chain. If Congress referred to these
islands as being thus within six leagues of the shore, when the
act creating the State of Mississippi was passed, it follows that
there would be no conflict with prior existing boundaries of

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 V. S.

'Opinion of the Court.

the State of Louisiana, particularly if the deep water sailing
channel line be taken as tle correct boundary between the
States. And when Congress created a separate territorial government for the eastern part of Mississippi Territory and called
it Alabama, by the act of March 3, 1817, it used the same
language concerning the western and southern boundary of the
Territory: "thence due south to the Gulf of Mexico, thence.
eastwardly, including all islands within six leagues of the shore
to the river Perdido and thence up same to the beginning."
It seems obvious to us that it was to this chain of islands that
Congress referred when it admitted Mississippi into the Union;
and. that it had no intention whatsoever of giving Mississippi
any claim of ownership in t.ht6 sea miarsh islands, which had been
previously granted to the State of Louisiana.
We are of opinion that the peninsula of St.. Bernard in its
entirety belongs to Louisiana; that the Louisiana Marshes at
the eastern extremity thereof form part of the coast line of the
State; and that the islands within niie miles of that coast are
hers, except as restricted by the deep water sailing channel
regarded as a boundary. Cat Island, for instance, is within
the nine miles, but it is north of the deep water' channel, is
not alluvial, ain( is conceded by both States to belong to Mississippi.
3. That there -is a deep water sailing channel line emnerging
from the nouth of Pearl river, and extending east between
Lower Point Clear and Grand Island, is shown by the numerous
maps, surveys and sketeh& in tile record. It separates into
two branches, one of them passing betwen Cat Island and
Isle t Pitre.
Among the maps put in evidence by Louisiana is one prepared by George Gauld, M. A., for the British Admiralty in
the year 1778, and, from the relative depths of water given,
the existence of this same channel, extending out into the Gulf,
southwest of Cat Island, is shown and is the same as noted dii
maps of subsequent years.
February 14, 1839, an act of the legislature of Mississippi was

OCTOBER. TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

approved, providing for a survey of the Mississippi. coast. The
survey and report are given in full. in the record,. and the deep
water channel above referred to is traceable in detail on the
sketch. The channels indicated on this survey and on the
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey map are the. same
channels. It may be noted, in passing, that the body of water
now known as "Mississippi Sound,)' is ..not so designated on
this sketch, and the first map which uses this name, to which
our attention has been called,.ws issued:-in-1866,_.Louisiana lies between the States of Mississippi to the east
and Texas to the west. The southern portion of, Louisiana is
geologically of an alluvial formation, containing the delta of
the Mississippi river. The peninsula of the parish ( St. Bernard is practically a part of this delta formation.
Mississippi's mainland borders on Mississippi Sound. This
is an inclosed arm of the sea, wholly within the United States,
and formed by a chain of large islands, extending westward
from Mobile, Alabama, to Cat Island. The opening, "rom this
body of- water into the Gulf are neither of them six vailas wide.
Such openings occur between Cat Island and Isle ,a Pitre; between Cat and Ship Islands; between Ship and Horn Islands;
between.!Horn and Petit Bois Islands; between Petit Bois and
Dauphin Islands;. and between Dauphin Island and the mainland on the west coast of Mobile Bay. The maps show all this,
and, among others, reference may be made to Jeffrey's map of
1775, given in the record, and which in reduced form is reproduced from Jeffrey's Atlas of 1800 as the frontispiece of vol. II
Adams' History of the Ulited States.
Now to repeat, the boundary bf Louisiana separating her
from the State of Mississippi to the east is the thread of the
channel of the Mississippi river, and this extends souti until
it reaches the thirty-first degree of north latitude and then runs
directly east along that degree until Pearl river is reached;
thence south along the channel of that river to, Lake Borgne.
Pearl river flows into Lake Borgne, Lake Borgne into Mississippi Sound and Mississippi Sound into the open Gulf of Mexico,

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

through, among other outlets, South Pass, separating Cat
Island from Isle A Pitre.
If the doctrine of the thalweg is applicable, the correct boundary line separating Louisiana from Mississippi in these waters
is the deep water-channel.
The term "'thalweg" is commonly used by writers on international law in definition of water boundaries between States,
meaning the middle or deepest ormost navigable channel.. And
while often styled "fairway " or " nidway"-or "main channel,"
the word itself Ahas- been :-.takeh Qverinto -various languages.
Thus in the treaty of Lunev.iile, February 9, 1801, we find "le
Thaweg de l'Adige," "le Thalweg "du-Uhijn," and it is similarly used in English treaties and decisions, afind-the. books of
publicists in every tongue.
In Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1, the rule of the thalweg was
stated and applied. The controversy between the States of
Iowa and Illinois on the Mississippi river, which flowed between
them, was as to the line which separated "the jurisdiction of
the two States for the-purposes of ,taxation and other purposes
of government." Iowa contended that the boundary line was
the middle of-the main body of the river, without regard to the
"stcamboat channel" or deepest part of the stream. Illinois
claimed that its jurisdiction extended to the channel upon
which commerce on the river by steamboats or other vessels.
was usually conducte(l. This couit held that the true line in
a navigable river between States is the middle of the main
:channel of the river..
Mr. Justice lield, delivering the opinion of the.court, said:
"When a navigable river constitutes the boundary between
two indepn(lent States, the line defining the point at which
the jurisdiction of the two separates is well established to be
the middle of the main, chainel. of the stream. The interest of
each 8tate in the n avigation of the river admits of no other
line. The preservation by each of its equa-right-n..the navigation of the stream-is. the subject of paramount interest. it
is, therefore, laid down in.all the recognized treatises on interVOL. cCii-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

national -law of-. modern times thatt the middle of the channel
of the stre0m marks the true boundary between the adjoining
States up to which each State will on its side exercise jurisdiction. In -international law, therefore, and by the usage of
European nations, the .term ' middle of the stream, -as applied
to a navigable river, is the same as the middle of the channel,
of such stream, and in that sense the terms',are used in the
treaty of peace between Great Britain, France, and Spain,
concluded at Paris in 1763. By the language, "a line-'drawn
along the middle of the river Mississippi fro-icsWsource to the
river lberville,' as there used,- ismeant along the middle of
the channel of the river Mississippi.'
This judgment related to navigable rivers. But we are of
opinion that, on occasion, the principle of the thalweg is applicable, in respect of water boundaries, to sounds, bays, straits,
gulfs, estuaries and other arms of the sea.
As to boundary lakes and landlocked seas, where there is no
necessary track of navigation, the line of demarcation is drawn
in the middle, and this is true of narrow straits separating the
lands of, two different States; but whenever there is a deep
water sailing channel therein, it is thought by the publicists
that the rule of the thalweg applies. 1 Martens (F. de), 2d ed.
134; Hall; " 38; Bluntschli, 5th ed. § 298, 299; 1 Oppenheim,
254, 255.
Thus Martens writes: "What we have said in regard to
rivers and lakes is equally applicable to the straits or gulfs of
the sea, especially those which do not exceed the ordinary width
of rivers or double the distance that a cannon can carry.
So Pradier Fod6r6 -says (Vol. II, p. .202), that as to lakes,
"in communciation with or connected with the sea, they ought.
to be considered under the same rules as international rivers."
The same view is confirmed by decisions of this court and
of many arbitral tribuna.ls.
In P0ic Manufacturing Company, 108 U. S. 401, the question at issue was in regard to the bomadary line between New
York and New Jersey under an agreement between the two

LOUISIANA. v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States. The jurisdiction of the State of New Jersey was
claimed "to extend down to the bay of New York, and to the
channel midway of said bay," and this court sustained the
claim. See Hamburg American Steamship Company v. Grube,
196 U. S. 407.
In the San Juan Water Boundary controversy between the
United States and Great Britain, Emperor William I gave the
award in favor of the United States, October 21, 1871, by deciding ".that the boundary line between the territory of Her
Brittanic Majesty and the United States should be -drawn
through the Haro Channel;" and it is apparent that the decision was based on the deep channel theory as applicable to
sounds and arms of the sea, such as the straits of San Juan de
Fuca; indeed in a subsequent definition of the boundary, signed
by the Secretary of State, the British Minister, and the British
representative, the boundary line was said to be prolonged until "it reaches the center of the fairway of the Straits of San
Juan de Fuca." The fairway was the equivalent of the thaiweg.
Again, in fixing the boundary line of the Detroit river, under
the sixth and seventh articles of the treaty of Ghent, the deep
water channel was adopted, giving Belle Isle to the United
States as lying north of that channel.
So in the Alaskan Boundary case, the majority of the arbitration tribunal, made up of Baron Alverstone, Lord Chief Justice of England, Mr. Secretary Root, and Senators Lodge and
Turner, held that the middle of the Portland Channel was the
proper boundary line and included Wales Island, to the north
of which the channel passed. This sustained the American contention in regard to the thalweg and the island lying South
of it.
But counsel con'tend that the rule "as to the flow of the
nidchannel or thalweg of the riyer Iberville (now known as
Manchac) through te east, through Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain expires by its own limitation when such midehannel
reaches Lake Borgne, which in contemplation of the rule is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

open sea, and part of the waters of the Gulf of Mexico." This
contention is inconsistent, as matter of fact, with the allegation
of the cross bill that "the Mississippi Sound was recognized
as a body of water six leagues wide, wholly within the State
of Mississippi from Lake Borgne to the Alabama line, separate
and distinct from the Gulf of Mexico," and with Mississippi's
Exbibit Map A presenting her claim, while the record shows
that the strip of water, part of Lake Borgne and Mississippi
Sound, is not an open sea but a very shallow arm of the sea,
having outside of the deep water channel an inconsiderable
depth.
The maritime belt is that part of the sea which, in contradistinction to the open sea, is under, the sway of the riparian
States, which can exclusively reserve the fishery within their
respective maritime belts for their own citizens, whether fish,
or pearls, or amber, or other products of the sea. See Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S.240; McCready v. Virginia,
94 U. S. 391.
In Manchester v. Massachusetts, the court said: "We think
it must be regarded as established that, as between nations,
the minimum limit of the territorial jurisdiction of a nation
over tide waters is a marine league from its coast; that bays
wholly within its territory not exceeding two marine leagues
in width at the mouth are within this limit; and that included
in this territorial jurisdiction is the right of control over fisheries, whether the fish be migratory, free swimming fish, or
:free moving fish, or fish attached to or embedded in the soil.
The open sea within this limit is, of course, subject to the common right of navigation; and all governments, for the purpose
of self protection in time of war or for the prevention of frauds
on its revenue, exercise an authority beyond this limit."
Questions as to the breadth of the maritime belt or the extent of the sway of the riparian States require no special consideration here. The facts render such discussion unnecessary.
Islands formed by alluvion were held by Lord Stowell, in
respect of certain mud islands at the mouth of the Mississippi,

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be "natural appendages of the coast on which they border,
and from which indeed they are forimed." The Anna (1805),
5 C. Rob. 373.
As to these particular waters, the observations of Mr. Hall,
4th ed. p. 129, are in point: "'Off the coast of Florida, among
the Bahamas, along the shores of Cuba, and in the Pacific, are
to be found groups of numerous islands and islets rising out of
vast banks, which are covered with very shoal water, and either
form a line more or less parallel with land or compose systems
of their own, in both cases enclosing considerable sheets of
water, which are sometimes also shoal and sometimes relatively
deep. The entrance to these interior bays or lagoons may be
wide in breadth of surface water, but it is narrow in navigable
water."
He then states the specific case of the Archipi4lago de los
Canarios on the coast of Cuba, and says: "In cases of this sort
the question whether the interior waters are, or are not, lakes
endosed within the territory, must always depend upon the
depth upon the banks, and the width of the entrances. Each
must be judged upon its own merits. But in the instance cited,
there can be little doubt that the whole Archipihlago de los
Canarios is a mere sal.t water lake, and that the boundary of
the land of Cuba runs along the exterior edge of the bank."
In such circumstances as exist in the present case, we perceive no reason for declining to apply the rule of the thalweg in
determining the boundary.
4. Moreover, it appears from the record that the various departments of the United States Government have recognized
Louisiana's ownership of the di~puted area; that Louisiana has
always asserted it; and that Mississippi has repeatedly recognized it, and not until recently has disputed it.
The question is one of boundary, and this court has many
times held that, as between the States of the Union, long acquiescence in the assertion of a particular o'untdary and the
exercise of dominion and sovereignty over the territory within
it, should be accepted as conclusive, whatever the iternational

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

rule might be in respect of the acquisition by prescription of
large tracts of country claimed by both. Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503; Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479; Missouri v. Kentucky, 11 Wall. 395; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 4 How. 591.
The Louisiana Enabling Act of February 20, 1811, provided
that all the waste and unappropriated lands in said State should
be and remain the property of the United States Government.
In the disputed area of to-day are included lands and waters
located in various townships, all of which are enumerated in
the southeastern land district of Louisiana, east of the Mississippi river. The lands in these townships were surveyed by
the Government about the year 1842, all of them as being ii.
and forming a part of the State of Louisiana. By the Swamp
Land Grants of 1849 and 1850, the United States granted to
certain States the swamp and overflowed lands within their
respective limits, in order that these lands might be reclaimed,
protected from overflow, and brought into use. Louisiana
made application to the United States for the approval to her
of these lands as being part-of her territory and situated within
her limits. They all lay south of the deep water channel and
were all approved to the State of Louisiana May 6, 1852. They
were then offered by the State through the register of the state
land office for sale and many sales of them were made from
time to time to individuals and patents issued therefor in various years from 1853 to 1894. In 1892, in furtherance of the
better i)rotection of the lands of the parishes of St. Bernard
and Plaquemines from overflow, the legislature of Louisiana
adopted an act which created a Lake Borgne Basin Levee Commission, and provided a board of commissioners therefor as a
department of the state government, and the register of the
state land office was authorized to transfer all of the unsold
lands to the board, which was done in April, 1895. The board
was authorized by law to sell these lands and also to levy taxes
to be used inestablishing a protective levee system in the district. The board made sales of a considerable number of acres

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to different individuals from September 16, 1898, to March 7,
1902. Isle A Pitre was composed of certain enumerated sections of township ten, south of range twenty e-st, and these
lands were approved to Louisiana by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office of the United States May 6, 1852, as forming part of that State, and they were subsequently patented,
sold and conveyed to various individuals, the chain of title extending from 1852, a period, of over .fifty years. The lands
forming Isle A Pitre have been paying taxes to the State of
Louisiana for years. Political and police cofntrol.and jurisdiction by the parish of St. Bernard. officials were exercised over
the disputed area, and many instances are given of police control and jurisdiction by Louisiana officials over this general
territory. This territory consisted, as heretofore stated, of what
was known as the. Louisiana Marshes, and it is admitted that
they have immemorially been known by that name, though
some of the witnesses for Mississippi said that they were also
known as Grand Marshes, admitting, however,, that they -were
quite as frequently called the Louisiana Marshes.
Some other matters may properly be referred to as showing
the general understanding of and acquiescence if the boundary
asserted by Louisiana.
In January, 1901, the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey was applied to by a member of the House of Representatives from Mississippi for information in regard to the
bound ary line between Louisiana and Mississippi in the present
Tisputed area, and Hodgkins, an assistant in the Department,
a well-known expert in such matters, made areport January 30,
1901, which, after considering the subject in all its phases,
showed that the correct boundary between the two States in
the locality is the deep water sailing channel line contended
for by Louisiana.
The United States Geological Survey ptblished in the year
1900 a bulletin- devoted to a discussion fof !the boundaries of
the States and Territories,. and giving a :history of changes as
they may have occurred. The third edition was published in

-OCTOBER TERM; "1,o&:
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

1904:.Gannett's Boundaries, 58th C6ngress, 2&Session, H. R.
D6c.-.&78.•

In the opinion of that Bureau, .Louisiana was originally
bounded- by the deepwater channel, and is the owner of the
area in dispute to-day, accordirg- 0-th" reptand the accompanying sketches.
. In 1897, Louisiana requested the United States Commission
of Fish and Fisheries to make an investigation and report upon
certain technical matters in.
connection with the oyster industry of that State, which investigation was made in February.
1898, by the United States Fish Commission steamer "Fish
Hawk." A map was made of the area investigated in St. Bernard parish, and that map is given in the opening statement as
Diagram No. 4. Louisiana's ownership was clearly recognized.
The General Land Office of the United States began as early
as 1842 a detailed survey ofthe land forming the disputed area,
of which township plats appear in the record. The survey gave
the location of Marsh Island, 1alf Moon or Grand Island, an
unnamed island, Petit Pass Island, anl Isle A Pitre and the
sections and townships comprised in, these islands. They were
all designated as being in the southeastern land district of
Louisiana, east of the Mississippi river.
.,,When, as we hav. s
uiiar in the year 1852, selected
these'and,;o.ther lands within her state imits as enuring to her
under the. Swamp Land Grants, the General.jjand Office, on
May, 6 1852, recognized the correctness of the
n.aii.;to the
lands;a.S1 approve( and I)atente(d them to her as aState. Mis.issippi.also app)ied for the land enuring to her Ulider the provisions of those grants, anid reeeivedl her swam pl lands, but the
State never selectedI an(l never hal approved to her, as isshown
by the hooks of tie State Land.Oflice of Mississippi, ally of the
lands in the dlispimted area of to-d(ay; but it appeared Ihat -the

State did have in her Land Office books a record1 of the lands
forming St. Joseph's Island, which lay iimi.mdiately north of
the deep water channel, and did not extend south of that
channel.

LOUrSIANAiA' M SI-SIPPI.
202 U. S.

Opinion bftlie Court.

The General Land Office of the United States in all of the
maps it has caused to be made of Louisiana and Mississippi has
been consistent in its recognition of the ownershipby Louisiana
of the disputed area. See maps of Louisiana, 1879, 1886, 1887,
1896; and of Mississippi in 1890.
As before stated, in 1839, an engineer and surveyor made a
report and sketch of the coast of Mississippi under the authority of that State. This showed the territory lying south of the
deep water channel in outline to be a peninsular formation.
The report referred to Horn, Petit Bois, Cat and Ship Islands
as belonging to Mississippi, all of Which are east of the disputed
territory; and the territory southwest of the deep water channel, or South Pass, was described as the Louisiana Marshes.
The official mapa.of Mississippi recognized Louisiana 8 wnership of the disputed territory ._Thestatema.pof ,October 26,
1866, which was approved by GovernorHumphrey and also
by Governor Alcorn, did this; and other maps, as the official
map of Mississippi, published under an act of the'legislature of
that State on March 8, 1882 ; Rand & McNally's sectidal map
of Mississippi, compiled from the records of -the office of -the
Surveyor General of the Board of Immigration and Agriculture,
Jackson, Mississippi; and the Railroad Commissioners' map
of Mississippi gave like recognition. The only exception seems
to be a map of the Railroad Commission, issued in 1904, two
years after this suit was instituted, wherein on the eighteen-'
mile theory, Mississippi for the first time cartographically extended her claims into the St. Bernard, Louisiana, peninsula.
The record contains much evidence of the exercise by Louisiana of jurisdiction over the territory in dispute, and of the general recognition of it by Mississippi as belonging to Louisiana.
Apparently Louisiana had exercised complete dominion over
it from 1812 with the acquiescence of Mississippi, unless the
fact that the lattr.,4lade a, general reference to islands within
six leagu(es. (.f.l) r slio'e in her eo(le of I S40 i ndicate(l otherwise.
But the evidence fails to satisfy us that she attempted any
physical possession or contol..until after 1900. The few in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Decree.

202 U. S.

stances referred to as showing that Mississippi asserted rights
in the disputed area are of little weight and require no discussion.
Our conclusion is that complainant is entitled to the relief
sought.
Decree accordingly.

LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
DECREE.
No. 11, Original.

IN EQUITY.

Decree entered April 23. 106.

Defining the boundar line betweain the States of Louisiana and Mississippi under the opinion in this case. Ante, p. 1.

PER CUPJAM: This cause came on to be heard on the pleadings a8:id proofs and was argued by counsel. On consideration
ttereof it is found by the court that the State of Louisiana,
complainant, is entitled to a decree recognizing and declaring
the real, certain and true boundary south of the State of
Mississippi and north of the southeast portion of the State of
Louisiana, and separating the two States in the waters of
Lake Borgne and Mississippi Sound, to be, and that it is, the

deep water channel sailing line emerging frolm the most eastern
mouth of Pearl river into Lake Borgne anl( extending through

the northeast corner of Lake Borgne, north of Half Moon or
Grand Island, thence east and south through Mississippi Sound,
through South Pass between Cat Island and Isle A Pitre, to the
culf of Mexico, as delineated on the following map, made up
of the parts of charts Nos. 190 and 191 of the United States
Coast and (Geodetic Survey, embracing the particular locality:
And it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed accordingly.
It is further ordered, adjudged. and decreed that the State of
Mississippi, its officers, agents and citizens, be and they are

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
202 U. S.

Stipulation.

hereby enjoined and restrained from disputing the sovereignty
and ownership of the State of Louisiana in the land and water
territory south and west of said boundary line as laid down on
the foregoing map.
And that the costs of this suit be borne by the State of
Mississippi.

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
IN EQUITY.
No. 2. Original.

Decree entered April 23, 1906.

The boundary line between the State of Iowa and the State of Illinois is
the middle of the main navigable channel of the Mississippi river at
the places where the nine bridges mentioned in the pleadings cross said
river.

THIs cause came on for final decree and was submitted on
the following stipulation:
"And now comes the State of Iowa, complainant in this
cause, and also comes the State of Illinois, defendant in this
cause, and severally and jointly move the court to vacate and
set aside so much of the interlocutory order entered in this
cause on the third day of January, A. D. 1893, as orders 'that
a commission be appointed to ascertain and designate at said
places the boundary line between the two States, said commission consisting of three competent persons to be named by the
court, upon suggestion of counsel, and be required to make a
proper examination and to delineate on maps prepared for that
purlpose the true line as determined by this court and report
the same to the court for its further action' ; and also the interlocutory order entered in this cause on the seventh -day of
March, A. D. 1893; and also that part of the interlocutory order entered in this cause on the tenth (lay of April, A. D. 1893,
which was not set aside and -vacated by the interlocutory order

