OCTOI3ER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

varying orders of particular shippers and the arbitrary convenience of other roads. Therefore we need not consider either
whether there is any necessary parallelism between liability
elsewhere and immunity at home.
Judgments affirmed.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY DISTRICT
OF CHICAGO.
No. 4, Original. Submitted May 14, 1906.-Decided May 28, 1900.

This court has power to allow costs in original actions and in any action
between States, the successful State may ask for costs or not as it sees
fit, and there is no absolute rule that in boundary cases the costs are
divided. Costs, therefore, are allowed to the defendant in this suit in
which' the plaintiff alleged serious pecuniary damage, and framed its bill
like the ordinary bill of a private person to restrain a nuisance.
The solicitor's fee of $2.50 for each witness examined before the examiner
and admitted in evidence was properly allowed as fees for depositions
under: ยง 824, Rev. Stat.

THE

question involved in the motion is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Erasmus C. Lindley for defendant, Sanitary District of
Chicago.
Mr. Herbert S. Hadley, Attorney General of the State of. Missouri, Mr. Charles.W. Bates and Mr. Sam B. Jefferies for corn-.
plainant.
MIt. JUSTICE IOLWS delivered the opinion of tire court.
This is a motion-for the allowance and taxation of costs in
the case reported in 200 U. S. 496. The costs asked are as

follows:
paid to the special coimissioner.
$5,650
$3,776.37 for taking down and transcribing the testimony of

defendant's witnesses, etc.

MISSOURI v.,ILLINOIS.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Solicitors' fees, viz., $20 for attendance at final
hearing and $2.50 for each deposition taken and
admitted in evidence, in accordance with Rev.
Stat. ยง 824.
$10,146.37, total. The plaintiff objected to the allowance and
the Clerk referred the matter to this court.
The only question of detail concerns the last item. The
main objection is to the allowance of any costs at all. The
power of the court to allow costs is not disputed. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 460. The
former decree in this case allowed :them, and in the stipulation.
for the appointment of a special commissioner the parties
agreed that the costs should be "taxed by the court on the
final disposal of the case, to be paid in such manner as the
court may at that time determine." But it is said that it is
inconsistent with the dignity of a sovereign State to ask for
costs; that in boundary cases costs have been divided, and
thait the suit was not for a pecuniary interest, but only the
performance of the duty of a sovereign to its citizens, for
which no costs should be imposed.
So far as the dignity of the State is concerned, that is its own
affair. The United States has not been above taking costs.
United States v. Sanborn, 135 U. S.271. As to the supposed
rule in boundary cases, it is not absolute. But in many cases
of that kind both parties are equally interested to have the
boundary settled, and whichever State begins the suit both
equally are actors. Thus counter-relief was asked by the defendants in Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S.359 and Missouri v.
Iowa, 160 U. S. 688. As to the nature of this suit, the plaintiff
alleged serious pecuniary damage to itself by the deposit of
great quantities of filth upon the portion of the bed of the Mississippi alleged to belong to it, and, in short, framed its bill like
any ordinary bill by a private person to restrain a nuisance.
The chief difference was in the size of the nuisance alleged.
There is no indication that the defendants desired or needed
the determination of this court, as States well might when
$720

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

-202 U. S.

their jurisdiction was in doubt. So far as this p6int is concerned, there is no reason why the plaintiff should not suffer
the usual consequence of failure to establish its case.
The only item specially discussed is the charge of $2.50 for
each witness examined before the examiner, on the footing of
"depositions" mentioned in Rev. Stat. ยง 824. There seems
to have been some difference of opinion in the lower courts as
to whether testimony given before an examiner could be .treated
as a deposition. See Strauss v. Meyer, 22 Fed. Rep. 467;
1 Foster's Fed. Prac., 3d ed., 727, ยง 330. In favor of so treating
it are Ferguson v. Dent, 46 Fed. Rep. 88; Hake v. Brown, 44
Fed. Rep. 734; Ingham v. Pierce, 37 Fed. Rep. 647; The
Sallie P. Linderman, 2.2 Fed. Rep. 557; Stimpson v. Brooks, 3
J3latchf. 456. See also St. Matthew's Say. Bank v. Fidelity
Casualty Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 161-163. The words of the statute are broad enough to embrace the testimony, unless they
are taken very strictly, and the trouble to the parties in having
to visit different places was similar to that caused by the taking of depositions adverted to by Judge Treat in Strauss v.
Meyer. The case is quite distinct from that of testimony
taken in court and reduced to writing by a reporter. We are
of opinion that the item Inay be allowed.
Motion for costs allowed.

McDERMOTT v. SEVERE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 244.

Argued April 20, 23, 1906.-Decidedl May 28, 1906.

The motorman of a trolley car, which was rapidly approaching a place where
a small boy was trying to assist his smaller brother to extricate his foot
from the track, made no effort to stop the car when he first saw the boys,
supposing, as he testified, that they were playing on the track, as Many
boys did, ontil the last moment and that they would, as usual, get off
the track in time; when the car was within a few yards of the boys he

