JAMES v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

JAMES'v. UNITED STATES.
kPPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 215.

Argued April 6, 9, 1906.-Decided May 21. 1906.

Without deciding whether the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
is or is not an inferior court of the United States within the meaning
of § 1 of Art. HII of the Constitution of the United States, it is a sourt
of the United States within the meaning of § 714, Rev. Stat., the provisions whereof apply to judges of that, and of any other, court of the
United States holding office by life tenure. In thus deciding the court follows the evidently correct construction given to the statute by the legislative and executive departments of the Government since the original
enactment of the statute.
A justice of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia retiring during
the year ending June 30, 1893, is entitled to receive during his retirement five thousand dollars per annum that being the salary of the office
as fixed by the appropriation act for the previous year, and the appropriation act for the year ending June 30, 1893, while only appropriating
a lump sum for all the justices of the court amounting to four thousand
dollars each will not be construed as reducing the salary to Jhat amount
in view of the subsequent deficiency appropriation act appropriating an
amount sufficient to make the salaries for that year five thousand dollars.
Congress has power wholly irrespective of prior legislation retroactively
to fix the salary payable to a justice of the Supreme Court of the District
'of Columbia-and as the effect of the act of 1895 was a determination of
Congress that the salary of the justices of that court for the year ending
June 30, 1893, was five thousand dollars this court cannot disregard
the retroactive effect of the statute.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Morgan H. Beach, with whom Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr.,
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Josiah A. Van Orsdel, Assistant Attorney General,: with
whom Mr. Felix Braningan, Assistant Attorney, was on the
brief, for the United States.
VOL. ccn-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE

202 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

Charles P. James was an Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia. On December 1, -1892,
being over seventy years of age and having served for more
than ten years, he resigned his Office. He died on August 8,
1899. This suit was brought by the administratrix of the esstate of Justice James, oa June 30, 1900, to recover $6,688.90,
on the ground that the salary of Justice James at the time of
his resignation was five thousand dollars per annum, and that
after his resignation and up to the time of his death he was paid,
under the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 714, only at the rate of
four thousand dollars per annum, upon the erroneous theory
that that sum was the rate of salary fixed by law at the time
of the resignation. From a judgment rejecting the claim, 38
C. Cl. 615, this appeal was.prosecuted.
To comprehend the contentions pressed at bar.it is necessary
briefly to refer to the statutes fixing the salary of the Justices
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in force at
the time of and after the date of the resignation of Justice
James.
By the second section of the act of June 1, 1866,14 Stat. 54,
'the annual salary of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia was fixed at four thousand five hundred dollars, and of each Associate Justice at four thousand
dollars. This provision continued in force up to and including
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1891. The act, 26 Stat. 908,
947, making appropriations for judicial salaries, etc., for the
fiscal year commencing July 1, 1891, and ending June 30, 1892,
contained the following provision:
"For salaries of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia-and the fiye Associate Judges, at the
rate of five thousand dollars per annum each; thirty thousand
dollars."
The law containing this provision had the enacting clause
usually found in appropriation acts, declaring that the appro-

JAMES v. UNITED .STATES.4
202 U. S.

-- 403a'.'

Opinion of the Court.

priations were made in full compensation for the services ofthe fiscal year to which the acts related, and the last section of
the act repealed all acts or parts of acts inconsistent or in confict with its provisions. Under this act Justice James was paid
for the fiscal year referred to a salary at the rate of five thousand dollars per annum.
The appropriation act for the following fiscal year, commencing July 1, 1892, and. ending June 30, 1893, contained an
appropriation of a lump sum of $24,500 "for salaries of the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
and five Associate Judges." The sum thus appropriated' was
only adequate to pay the salaries of the Associate Justices at
the rate of four thousand dollars per annun each, and this act
also contained the general enacting and concluding clauses
above referred to.
For the five months of the year covered by this last act, up
to his resignation, viz., from July 1, 1892, to December 1, 1892,
Justice James was paid at the rate of four thousand dollars per
annum. Shortly after his xesignation, before the expiration of
the fiscal year covered by the lump appropriation for the year
commencing July 1, 1892, and ending June 30, 1893, Congress,
by the act of February 9, 1893, 27 Stat. 434, created the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia. By the terms, of the
act its provisions were not to take effect until April 3, 1893.
It was provided in the fourteenth section of the act that "Justices of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia shall
hereafter receive an annual salary of five thousand dollars each
payable quarterly at the Treasury of the United States." As,
the lump appropriation made in the act above referred to for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1893, was adequate only to pay
the salaries at the rate of four thousand dollars per annum, it
followed that the existing appropriation was not adequate to
pay the salaries of the Justices of the 'Supreme Court of the
District 'of Columbia at the rate of five thousand dollars per
anaum from the date fixed for the going into effect of the Court
of Appeals act, that is, from April 3, 1893, to the end of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

fiscal year. To remedy this, in the deficiency appropriation
act of March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 653, there was appropriated a
sum which, added to the previous lump appropriation, was adequate to pay to the Justices of the Supreme Court of the -District a salary at the rate of five thousand dollars per annum
from April 3, 1893, to the end of the fiscal year. For the following fiscal years, it is conceded, regular appropriation's were
made for the salaries of the Justices of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia at the rate of five thousand dollars
per annum. The deficiency appropriation act-of March 2,
.1895, contained an appropriation, 28 Stat. 843, 851, "to pay
the Chief Justice and five Associate Justices of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia the difference between the
rate of compensation received by them and five thousand dollars per annum for the fiscal year eighteen hundred and ninetythree." In virtue of this appropriation Justice James was paid
for the portion of the fiscal year (from July 1, 1892, to June 30,
1893) covered by the lump appropriation, that is, up to the
time f his resignation, on December 1, 1892, a sum which,
added to the four thousand dollars appropriated in the lump
appropriation act for that fiscal year, made his salary at the
rate of five thousand dollars per annum.
On behalf of the administratrix the contention is that the
appropriation at the rate of five thousand dollars per annum
made for the fiscal year from July 1, 1891, to June 30, 1892,
operated as an increase of the salary to that amount, and that
this increase was not repealed by the subsequent legislation,
or, if intended to be repealed, the repealing act was void, because the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia was an
inferior court of the United States within the meaning of section 1, article III, of the Constitution, and therefore, as Congress had increased the salary to five thousand dollars, it was
without power to reduce it.
The opposing contention is that the only effect of the appropriation for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1892, was to temporarily raise the salary for that year, and that as in the sub-

JAMES v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sequent year only a lump sum adequate to pay at the rate of
four thousand dollars per annum was appropriated, the general law of 1866 governed, and that amount became the salary
which by law was payable to Justice James at the time of his
resignation. And it is insisted that Congress was vested with
power to increase and diminish at pleasure the compensation
paid to a Justice of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, because that court was not one of the courts referred
to in section 1 of article III of the Constitution. Indeed, irrespective of the question of what was the rate of salary payable
to Justice James at the time of his resignation, the Government
contends that the judgment below should be affirmed, because
in any event the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
was not a court of the United States within the intendment of
Rev. Stat. § 714, and. in consequence the judges of that court
were not entitled on resignation to the benefits intended to be
conferred thereby.
From the view we take of the case it is unnecessary to consider the constitutional questions which are raised by the opposing parties. We say this because if the result of an analysis
of the legislation of Congress be to establish that the salary by
law payable to Justice James at the time of his resignation was
five thousand dollars per annum, it will be superfluous on that
branch of the case to intimate any opinion as to whether the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is a court of the
United States within the meaning of section 1 of article III of
the Constitution. Likewise, on the second branch of the case,
if it be concluded that the Justices of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia are embraced within the provisions of
section 714 of the Revised Statutes, irrespective of whether
that court is or is not an inferior court within the meaning of
the constitutional provision above referred to, it will be likewise superfluous to consider the question of constitutional
power.
It is not disputed that by the express terms of the appropriation act for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1892, the sal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905..
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

aries of the Justices of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia were increased to five thousand dollars per annum, at
least for that year. As, however, the appropriation for the
next fiscal year-the one in which Justice Jarnes resigned-was
only of a lump sum adequate to pay four thousand dollars per
annum, it is insisted that that amount was the salary payable
to Justice James at the date of his resignation. Whether, if
the act appropriating the lump. sum stood. alone, it would sustain- the contention based upon it,. we are not called upon to
decide, since we may not merely consider the lump appropriation, but must also take into view the act of March 2, 1895,
28 Stat. 851, relating to the identicar subject; viz., the salary
for the fiscal year.ending June 30, 1893, payable by law to the
Justices of the Supreme Court of the District.
The act of March 2, 1895, appropriated to pay as a deficiency
to the Chief Justice and the five Associate Justices'of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia a sum representing the
difference between the rate of compensation theretofore received by them and- five thousand dollars per annum for the
fiscal year 1.893, the year in which Justice James resigned.
Now that act is susceptible of only one of two constructions,
viz., either that it was a legislative declaration to the effect
that the increase of salary operated by the specific provision
contained in the appropriation act for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1892, was a permanent provision and had not been
repealed by the lump appropriation made in the act of the following year, or that it was intended retroactively to fix the
salaries of the Justices of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia for the fiscal year 1893 at the sum of five thousand
dollars, a power which Congress undoubtedly possessed. Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall. 323, 331, 332. Whichever view is adopted the legal proposition inevitably arises that
the salary of the Justices of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia payable by law for the fiscal year of 1893 was the
sum of five thousand dollars. Indeed, as a matter of fact under the operation of the deficiency appropriation, the salary

JAMES v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

actually paid to Justice James for the portion of the fiscal year
up to the time of his resignation was at the rate of five thousand
dollars per annum. It is no answer to this deduction to say
that as the effects just indicated arose from the act of 1895,
therefore they could not have existed in the fiscal year of 1893
when Justice James resigned; for this would be but to deny
efficacy to the act of 1895, either as a Congressional interpretation of the prior legislation or as a retroactive statute fixing
the salaries for the year 1893.
As Congress had the power,. wholly irrespective of the prior
legislation, retroactively to fix the: salary payable to a Justice
of the Supreme.Court of the District of Columbia for an antecedent year, and as the effect of the act of 1895 was necessarily
a determination by C6ngress that the salary payable to Justice
James for the year. during which he resigned was five thousand
dollars, we are not at liberty to disregard the retroactive effect
of the act of Congress by holding that the salary payable to
him by law for the year during which he retired was a less sum
than the amount which Congress, in the exercise of its plenary
authority in the premises, has declared was the lawful salary.
The salary of Justice James for the period just referred to
being then at the rate of five thousand dollars per annum, it
is obvious. that he was within the terms of Rev. Stat. § 714,
if the provisions of that section applied to Justices of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. That section is as
follows:
"SEC. 714. When any judge of any court of the United States
resigns his office, after having held his commission as such at
least ten years, and having at tained the age of seventy, years,
he shall, during the residue of his natural life, receive the same
salary *which was by law payable to him at the time of his
resignation."
On behalf of the Government it is, as we have said, contended
that Justice James was not entitled to the benefit of this statute, because that statute only embraced judges of such courts
of the United States as were within the purview of section 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

of article III of the Constitution, and it is insisted the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia was not so embraced. We
think the premise upon which this contention rests is Wholly
devoid of merit. The words of the statute, "when any judge
of any court of the United States resigns his office," are broad
enough to embrace all courts created by. the United States,
without taking into view the particular constitutional authority
which was exercised in such creation. It is true that the statute excludes the conception that it was intended to apply to,
judges of courts, created by Congress when the term of office
was of a limited duration. Conversely, however, in our opinion,
the text of the statute leaves no room for question that its provisions were intended to apply to a judge of any court of the
United States holding his office by a life tenure, such as during
good behavior. Indeed, as it is conceded at bar, that from the
period of the enactment of the statute down to the present
time it has, without interruption or deviation, been construed
by the legislative and executive departments of the Govern-,
ment as applicable to Justices of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, we do not deem it necessary to determine
whether the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is an
inferior court within the meaning of section 1 of article III of
the Constitution, since even if it be not a court of that character it is nevertheless a court of the United States within the
meaning of Rev. Stat. § 714.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded with directions
to enter a judgment for the petitioner.

