AYER & LORD CO. v. KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

AYER AND LORD TIE COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 268.

Argued April 27, 1906.-Decideal May 21, 1906.

The general ru1, as to vessels: plying 'etween the ports of different States
and engaged in the coastwise trade, is that the domicil of 'he owner is
the situs of the vessel for the purposes of taxation wholly irrespective of
the place of enrollment,. subject to the exception that where a. vessel
engaged in interstate edmmerce has acquired an actual situs in a State
other than that which is the domicil of the owner 'it may there be taxed
because within the Jurisd iction of the taxing authorities.
Vessels owned by a corporation domiciled in Illinois, and which althoug
enrolled in a Kentucky port are not engaged in commerce wholly in the
STate but are engaged in interstate commerce, and which have acquired
a permanent situs for taxation, and are taxed, in another State are not
subject to taxation by the State of Kentucky, nor is their situs for taxation therein on account of their being enrolled at a port of that State.

THE Commonwealth of Kentucky, by Frank A. Lucas,
revenue agent, commenced an action in the County Court of
McCracken County to.-recover from the Ayer and Lord Tie
Company alleged omitted state, county and municipal taxes
for the years 1899, 1900 and 1901, claimed to be assessable
upon two. steamboats and certain barges, 'and for the year
1901 upon one other steamboat, all the property of the company.
In the statement of the plaintiff the'right to recover in respect of the steamboats was based solely, upon the assertion
that on the dates when it was alleged the boats became subject to the taxes in question they were "enrolled, in accordance with the laws of the United States governing navigation,
at the port of Paducah, in the county of McCracken and State
of Kentucky; that, as required by tile said laws of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

States governing navigation, the words of 'Paducah, Kentucky' were painted on the stern of said steamboats; that
said boats, when not in use, are kept at Paducah, Kentucky,
and that the said port of Paducah is, and was on each of said
days, the home port of said steamboats."
The right to recover in respect of the barges was based upon
the allegation that "each and all of said boats are now and
were on each of the above days mentioned used by the defendant for the purpose of towing ties, loaded on barges; that the
defendant was, on each of the days aforesaid, the owner,
seized of and in possssion of certain barges, used in connection with said steamboats, for the purpose of transporting
railroad ties."
The tie company answered as follows: That it was an Illinois
corporation, chartered in 1893, and empowered "to transact
business with stqam'boats engaged in interstate commerce;"
that ."ever since its corporation it has been engaged in business as owner of towboats, plying on the Mississippi, Ohio,
Tennessee and Cumberland rivers, and their tributaries;
that the business in which towboats had been engaged is that
of interstate commerce and of transporting railroad ties in its
own barges from different points of said rivers to the port of
Brookport, in the State of Illinois; that their said towboats,
in pursuit of their business, occasiortally touch at the point
of Paducah, Kentucky, but never to discharge their cargo,
but simply for the purpose of buying stores, employing seamen, and for other like purposes; that they and said barges
are in the State of Kentucky but temporarily, and most of
their business is transportations from ports and places in
Alabama, Mississippi, Kentucky, Missouri, Arkansas, Illinois
and Tennessee to said port of Brookport, in the State of Illinois;
St. Louis, in the State of Missouri; Duvals Bluff, in the State
of Arkansas, at which ports said towboats discharge and deliver their respective cargo of ties, and said boats and barges,
owned and c6ntrolled by Ayer and Lord Tie Company was
engaged in the busigess aforesaid during and prior to years

AYER & LORD CO. v..KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

1899, 1900 and 1901, and since owned by the said defendant
company, have never been engaged in any other business but
as aforesaid, nor has said company since its incorporation been
engaged in any other business than as aforesaid; that their
said vessels were and are regularly licensed and enrolled by the
United States under and in pursuance to the acts of Congress."
It was further averred that although the tie company had
offices in various cities of Illinois situated on the Ohio river,
as also offices in the cities of Paducah and Fulton in the State
of Kentucky, and Duvals Bluff in the State of Arkansas,. it.
had such offices in Kentucky for 'convenience, and its principal office was averred to be in the State of Illinois, of which
State it was a citizen.
It was denied that the -home port of its vessels was in the
port of Paducah,. Kentucky, and it was averred that such
vessels were enrolled in Kentucky for convenience, and that
when they were so enrolled the general manager of its transpomkation department and of the steamboats of the tie company was a resident of the State of Kentucky.
It-was further specifically averred that during the year for
which the State of Kentucky was seeking to assess the property inquestion for taxation "all of said property was assessed
(listed?) by the defendant in the State of Illinois for taxation,
and has been taxed, and defendant has paid taxes under the
State of Illinois, to said State and 'city of Chicago on all of said
property, and denies the right of the State of Kentucky to
subject same property to taxation."
Claiming the right under the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States to trade at the ports of the
different States without molestation by the State of Kentucky, the company averred that the imposition and' the collection of taxes in question would operate an unlawful interference with the right of the company -to trade or engage in
interstate commerce as it had heretofore been accustomed
to do.

A denmurrer was filed to the answer on the ground that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

did not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The
County Court overruled the demurrer, and plaintiff declining
to plead further, the court dismissed "the plaintiff's statement and action." The case was then taken by appeal to the
Circuit Court of McCracken County. As part of the record
from the County Court the defendant filed in the Circuit Court
a petition and bond for removal of the cause to a Federal
court, upon the ground of diversity of citizenship. On the
trial of the case, before action taken on a demurrer which had
been refiled to the answer, the court overruled. and dismissed
the petition for removal, anid the. defendant excepted. The
demurrer to the answer was overruled, and, the plaintiff declining to plead further, a judgment of dismissal was entered.
The cause was then appealed to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky. That court held that the demurrer should have been
sustained, and the judgment in favor of the company was
reversed. 77 S. W. Rep. 686. A petition for rehearing was
denied for reasons stated in an opinion. 79 S. W. Rep.
290.
After the mandate of the Court of Appeals was filed in the
Circuit Court that court, upon the pleadings and the mandate
and opinion of the Court of Appeals, entered a judgment sustaining the demurrer, and, the defendant declining to plead
further, the allegations of plaintiff's statement were taken for
confessed, and it was adjudged that the property therein described was liable for taxation at the values stated in the judgment, and, the defendant was adjudged to pay the taxes due
upon such assessable values for the years in controversy, with
the statutory penalty. In compliance with the request of
the defendant the court separately stated its findings of fact
and conclusions of law, which are as follows:
"Separation of Findings of Facts from Conclusions of
Law.,
"That the defendant was, at the time specified in the pleadings, the sole bwner of the following-described property, named
in the petition, to wit: Steamers Russel Lord, Pavonia, Inver-

AYER & LORD CO. v. KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ness and barges; that the same were of the value as follows,
as set out in the statement: Russel Lord, $13,000; Pavonia,
$10,000; Inverness, $2,500; barges, $10,000; that the defendant had enrolled said steamboats at Paducah, Kentucky, with
the name Paducah painted on the stern of said vessels; that
the defendant was a corporation legally incorporated under
the laws of the State of Illinois.
"As a matter of 'law the court adjudges that the port of
Paducah, Kentu~ky, was, at the times mentioned in the statement, the home port of said vessels and barges belonging to
defendant and named in the statement, and that all of said
vessels were liable to assessment and valuation, at the times
stated in the statement, in MAcCracken County, Kentucky, for
purposes of state, county and city taxes for the years, respectively, Russel Lord and Pavonia, 1899j 1.900 and 1901; Inverness, 1901; barges, 1899, 1900 and 1901. The defendant
excepts to each of the above findings of facts, and also to all
of the conclusions of law."
A motion to set aside the judgment and for a new trial
having been made and overruled, the cause was again appealed to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court upon the authority of
its previous opinion, and the case was then brought to this
court.
Mr. Charl,3s E. Kremer, with whom Mr. James Campbell
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The barges are engaged in interstate commerce but they are
not enrolled and licensed, and have not "Paducah" painted
on their sterns, and are not at Paducah when not in use or at
any other time.
They have no actual situs in Kentucky, because not in the
-State, and no artificial situs by virtue of an enrollment and
license, and therefore are not in Kentucky at all and cannot
therefore be assessed there. Whether they have an actual
situs elsewhere, or whether their situs is that of the domicil

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

of their owner, is entirely immaterial in this case. The case
of the barges here comes within Commonwealth v. American
Dredge Co., 122 Pa. St. 386.
These barges were exempt from 6nrollment or license under
§ 21, Rev. Stat. The statement does not allege that they ever
were in Kentucky. The answer alleges that they were engaged in interstate commerce between ports of different States.
Being unenrolled, they can only be taxed at the residence of
the owner in.Chicago, where their owner had them assessed
and paid taxes on them.
The gist of the decision of the Court of Appeals and its conclusion is, that as Paducah is the home port of the steamers
in question, therefore that place is their situs for assessment
and taxation.
The court does not find that Paducah is the actual situs of
these vessels, but holds that Paducah is the home port of them
because it is the place where they are enrolled and licensed, and
because Paducah is painted on their sterns. This, their
artificial situs, the court holds, is sufficient to subject the vessels
to assessment and taxation there, regardless of the place of
their- ownership.
If it should appear that these vessels were illegally enrolled
and licensed at Paducah, and illegally had their names painted
on the stern, then they had no legal situs at Paducah and it
would follow that plaintiff in error could only be assessed at
Chicago, or at the place of the actual situs of the vessels, and
therefore it was right in paying taxes upon these vessels at
Chicago, the place of its domicil.
The steamers were subject to enrollment under the laws of
the United States, and section 4141 'of the Revised Statutes
applies to them.
Under this statute plaintiff in error could only register or
enroll its steamers at a port nearest to that in which it
resided. The steamers should have been enrolled at Chicago,
where it resided, that being a port and at the same time
the place of residence of the corporation. These vessels could

AYER & LORD CO. v. KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

only be enrolled in compliance with sections 4313 and
4314.
These steamers should have been enrolled and licensed in
Chicago, and if, at the expiration of their licenses, they were
found away from Chicago, should have been enrolled and
licensed under section 4328. The vessels were illegally and
improperly enrolled at Paducah, and having been so illegally
and improperly enrolled there, it follows that painting the name
"Paducah" on their sterns was also illegal and improper.
The question of ownership and place of enrollment are,
under the law, separate and distinct from the matter of the
painting of the name on the stern. Before the passage of the
act of 1884, the name to be painted on the stern was provided
for by section 4334. The act of 1884 broadened the meaning
of the word "port" under §§ 4178, 4334 as to painting the
name on the stern.
The steamers were not temporarily enrolled at Paducah
under § 4323 and were illegally enrolled there by one who had
no right to do so.
This case is governed by Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wall. 471.
See also St. Louis v. Wiggins Ferry Company, 11 Wall. 423;
Mayor v. Baldwin, 57 Alabama, 61; Yost v. Lake Erie Transp.
Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 746; The Lotus, 26 Fed. Rep. 637.
The place of residence of the owners is to be considered the
home port, even when the registration is in another State.
The Jenny B. Gilkey, 19 Fed. Rep. 127; The Charlotte Vanderbilt, 19 Fed. Rep. 219; The Plymouth Rock, 14 Blatch. 505;
The Mary Chilton, 4 Fed. Rep. 487; The E. A. Barnard, 2
Fed. Rep. 712; The Golden Gate, Newb. Ad. 308; The Martha
Washington, 1 Cliff. 463; The Thos. Fletcher, 24 Fed. Rep. 375;
The Chelmsford, 34 Fed. Rep. 399; The Marion G. Harriss,81
Fed. Rep. 964; The Richard G. Garrett, 44 Fed. Rep. 379;
The Havana, 64 Fed. Rep. 496.
The plaintiff is not estopped from claiming an invalid enrollment against the State of Kentucky because the State is
in no way a party to such enrollment. This is a proceeding

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

-202 U. S.

entirely between the Government of the United States and
the Ayer and Lord Tie Co., which does not inure to the benefit
of the State. The latter is a mere outsider, in no wayinterested
in the matter of enrollment, was not benefited by it, and
cannot be injured by its being held illegal.
The steamboats had no actual situs. They were engaged'in
interstate commerce. They were engaged in trading between
places in different States upon different waters. The State
must show a situs of the property in question. Walker v.
Walker, 9 Wall. 755; Marine Nat. Bank v. Fiske, 71 N. Y.
353; Myers v. Cronk, 113 N. Y. 608; Monson v. Tripp, 81
Maine, 24.
Mr. N.'B. .Hays, Attorney General of Kentucky, with whom
Mr. Charles H. Morris and Mr. J. H. Ralston were on the
briefs, for defendant in error:
If the actual situs and home port of the boats in question
is Paducah, Kentucky, under the laws of the United States
governing navigation, then these boats and barges are within
the jurisdiction of the State of Kentucky, and the 'county of
McCracken; are protected by the State's laws, and subject to
state and county taxation; and if the tax is levied only at the
home port, and said boats and barges are valued as other
property, and without unfavorable discrimination, because
of their employment, it is a valid power of the State. The
situs of said boats for the purposes of taxation, is Paducah,
Kentucky; and being a part of the property of this State,
and said county, they are subject to taxation there, and not
elsewhere. Hays v. Pacific Mail Steamship Co., 17 How.
596; TransportationCo. v. Wheeling, 99 U. S.273; St. Louis
v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423; Pullman Pal. Car. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.36; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S.75;
Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wall. 471; Judson on Taxation, § 186.
While, for purposes of taxation, the general rule is that
mobilia sequuntur personam, such is by no means the invariable
rule, and in many cases tangible personal property acquires a

AYER & LORD CO. v. KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

situs for taxation foreign to the residence of its owner. This
was recently decided by this court in Union Refrigerator Transit
Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194. See also Brown v. Houston,
114 U. S. 622; Union Re/rig. Transit Co. v. Lynch, 177 U. S.
149; Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Ry. Co. *V. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341.
Although assessed and taxed in Illinois, the same property
is not exempf from taxation in Kentucky. Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S.517.
The taxation of the vessels in Kentucky is not an interference with interstate commerce. Their home port being in
McCracken County, Kentucky, and the city of Paducah, and
being constantly employed and used in the streams of Kentucky, and those adjacent thereto, and when not in use kept
at Paducah, they are property within the jurisdiction of said
city, county and State, for the purpose of taxation, and the
right of the State to tax them should not be denied. Pullman
Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 36; American Refrigerator Trans. Co. v. Hall, 171 U. S. 68; Old Dominion
Steamship Co. V. Virginia, 198 U. S.302; Northwestern Lumber Co. v. Chehalis County, 87 Am. St. Rep. 747; National
Dredging Co. v. State, 99 Alabama, 462; Norfolk and Western
R. R. Co. v. Board of Pub. Works, 97 Virginia, 23; Minburn
v. Hays, 56 Am. Dec. 366; Union Trust Co. v. Kentucky, 199
U. S. 194.
No State can lay any tonnage tax, or lay any tax on interstate commerce itself, but the principle has always been recognized that the instruments by which interstate commerce was
carried on were subject to state taxation as property wherever
they might be situated, provided only that they were not
discriminated against -because of their occupation. Louisville Ferry Co. v. Commonwealth, 22 Ky. L.. Rep. 446; C. C. C.
& St. L. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439; Henderson Bridge
.Co. v. Commonwealth, 17 Ky. L. Rep. 389; Henderson"Bridge
Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150; Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wall.
471.
VOL ccii-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

As in the argument counsel for plaintiff in error has not discussed the lleged error in overruling the motion to remove,
we treat that question as waived and pass to the merits.
Notwithstanding, by the demurrer to the answer, it was
conceded that the tie company was the owner of the alleged
taxable property, that it was an Illinois corporation and that
its main office was in Chicago, that it had paid taxes in Illinois
upon such property, that the property was employed in interstate commerce between ports of different States, including
the State of Illinois, that its steamboats were enrolled at
Paducah, Kentucky, for convenience, Kentucky being the
place of residence of one of its managing officers, and that its
boats touched at Paducah only temporarily, never receiving
or discharging cargo at that port, the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky held that the property in question was subject to
the taxing power of the State of Kentucky. The existence of
power in the State to tax the property in question was rested
solely upon the proposition that as the steamboats were enrolled at Paducah, and the name Paducah was painted upon
their sterns, it was to be conclusively presumed that the home
port of the 'vessels was at Paducah, and that such home port
was the situs of the property for taxation. The barges were
brought within the principle announced, because they were
treated as mere accessories of the steamboats. While in the
opinion the steamboats were regarded as operated under a
registry, th fact is they were engaged in the coastwise trade
under an enrollment and license. But this is immaterial, since
vessels in order to be enrolled must possess the qualifications and fulfill the requirements necessary for registration.
To comprehend the question a chronological statement of
he legislation of Congress as to the registration or enrollment
of vessels, etc., is necessary.

AYER & LORD CO. v. KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the 6ourt.

By sectio4 3 of an act approved December 31, 1792, 1 Stat.
287, 288, it was provided as follows:
"SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That every ship or vessel,
.hereafter to be 'registered (except as hereinafter provided),
shall be registered by the collector of the district in which
shall be comprehended the -port to which such ship or vessel.
shall belong, at the time of her registry, which port shall be
deemed to bc that, at or nearest to which, the owner; if there
be but one, or if more than one, the husband or acting and
managing owner of such ship or vessel, usually resides. And
the name of' the said ship or vessel, and of the port to which
she shall so belong, shall be painted on her stern, on a black
ground, in white letters, of not less than three inches in length.
And if any ship-or vessel of the United States, shall be found,
without having her name, and the name of the port, to which
:she belongs, painted in the manner aforesaid, the owner or
owners shall forfeit fifty dollars; one-half to the person giving
the information thereof; the other half to the use of the United
States."
On June 23, 1874, 18 Stat. 252, the foregoing provision
was amended so as to allow the name of the vessel to be
In the
painted upon her stern in yellow or gold letters.
Revised Statutes the requirement in question was separated
into two sections (sections 4141, 4178), reading as follows:
"SEC. 4141. Every vessel, except as is hereinafter provided,
shall be registered by the collector of that collection district
which includes the port to which such vessel shall belong at
the time of her registry; which port shall be deemed to be that
at or nearest to which the owner, if there be but one, or, if
more than one, the husband or acting and managing owner
of such vessel, usually resides."
"SEC. 4178. The name of every registered vessel, and of
.the port to which she shall belong, shall be painted on her
stern, on a black ground, in white letters of not less than three
inches in length. If any vessel of the United States shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

found without having her name and the name of the port to
which she belongs so painted, the owner or owners shall be
liable to a penalty of fifty dollars; recoverable one-half to the
person giving the information thereof; the other half to the
use of the United States."
By section 2 of the act of February 18, 1793, 1 Stat. 305,
"for enrolling and licensing ships or vessels to be employed
in the coasting trade," etc.,, the same requirements were made
essential for enrollment as for registering, and by section 11
licensed vessels were specifically obliged to have the name and
port painted on the stern. As incorporated into the Revised
Statutes the latter provision reads as follows:
"SEc. 4334. Every licensed vessel shall have her name and
the port to which she belongs, painted on her stern, in the manner prescribed for registered vessels; and if any licensed vessel
be found without such painting, the owner thereof shall be
liable to a penalty of twenty dollars."
By sectioil 21 of an act approved June 26, 1884, 23 Stat. 53,
58, it was provided as follows:
"SEC. 21. That the word 'port,' as used in sections forty-one
hundred and seventy-eight and forty-three hundred and
thirty-four of the Revised Statutes, in reference to painting
the name and port of every registered or licensed vessel on the
stern of such vessel, shall be construed to mean either the port
where the vessel is registered or enrolled, or the place in the
same district where the vessel was built or where one or more
of the owners reside."
Again, by acts approved February 21, 1891, c. 250, sec. 1,
26 Stat. 765, and January 20, 1897, c. 67, sec. 1, 29 Stat. 491,
section 4178, Rev. Stat., was amended so that it now reads
as follows:
"SEC. 4178. The name of every documented vessel of the
United States shall be marked upon each bow and upon the
stern, and the home port shall also be marked upon the stern.
These names shall be painted or gilded, or consist of cut or
carved or cast roman letters in light color on a dark ground,

AYER & LORD CO. v. KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or in a dark color on a light ground, secured in'place, and to
be distinctly visible. The smallest letters used shall not be
less in size than four inches. If any such vessel shall be found
without these names being so marked the owner or owners shall be liable to a penalty of ten dollars for each name
omitted: Provided,however, That the names on each bow may
be marked within the year eighteen hundred and ninetyseven."
Was the ruling below justified by these statutes? We think
not.
The general rule has long been settled as to vessels plying
between the ports of different States, engaged in the coastwise
trade, that the domicil of the owner is the situs of a vessel for
the purpose of taxation, wholly irrespective of the place of
enrollment, subject, however, to the exception that where a
vessel engaged in interstate commerce has aequired an actual
situs in a State other than the place of the domicil of the owner,
it may there be taxed because within the jurisdiction of the
taxing authority.
In Hays v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., 17 How. 596, vessels were
registered in New York, where the owner resided. The vessels
were employed in commerce on the Pacific Ocean between
San Francisco and Panama, and theY question was whether the
vessels v"ere subject to taxation in California. It was decided
that they were not, as they'had not become incorporated into
the property of California so as to have an actual situs in that
State, and it was declared that the vessels were properly
taxable at the domicil of their owner.
In St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, the boats of the company, an Illinois corporation, were enrolled at St. Louis and
plied between that city and the city of East St. Louis, in the
State of Illinois. The company had an office in St. Louis,
where its president and other principal officers lived and where
the ordinary business meetings of the directors were held and
the corporate seal was kept. A tax was paid upon the boats
in Illinois, the residence of the owner. The city' 6f St. Louis

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

-taxed the ferry boats as personal property "within the city."
It was, however, held that 'he boats did not so abide within
the city as to become incorp6rated with and form part of its
personal 'property, citing Hays. v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., 17
How: 559. In the course of the opinion the court said (italics
mine):
'The boats were enrolled at the city of St. Louis, but that
throws no light upon the subject of our inquiry. The act of
1789, sec. 2, 1 Stat. at L. 55, and the act of 1792, sec. 3, 1
Stat. at L. 287, require every vessel to be registered in the
district to which she belongs, and the fourth section of the
former act and the third section of the latter, declares that
her home port shall be that at or near which her owner resides.
The solution of the question, where her home port is, when it
arises, depends wholly upon, the locality of her owner's residence,
and not upon the place of her enrollment. 3 Kent. Coin.
133, 170; Hill v. The Golden Gate, Newberry, 308; The
Superior, Newberry, 181; Jordan v. Young, 37 Maine, 27,
29."
In Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wall. 471, a vessel originally
registered in New York had been engaged for years in the
coastwise trade between Mobile and New Orleans and was
enrolled at Mobile. It was decided that the boat could not
be taxed in Alabama.
In Transportation Co. v. Wheeling, 99 U. S. 273, vessels
engaged in commerce between ports of different States were
held taxable at the domicil of the owner.
Quite recently, in Old Dominion S. S. Co. v. Virginia, 198
U. S. 299, the foregoing authorities were approvingly cited,
and were in effect reaffirmed. In that case the vessels were
enrolled in New York, the domicil of the owner, but, although
engaged in interstate commerce, the vessels were navigated
Wholly within the limits of the State of Virigina, it was held
that they came within the exception to the general rule which
we have previously stated, and were properly taxable in
Virginia.

AYER & LORD CO. v KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As in the case at bar, the owner of the vessels was domiciled
in Illinois and the vessels were not employed exclusively in
commerce between points in the State of Kentucky, but were
engaged in traffic between that State and the ports of other
States, including Illinois, it seems obvious thht, as a question
of fact they had no permanent situs in the State of Kentucky
within the rule announced in the Old DominionSteamship case.
The right then of the State of Kentucky to tax the vessels
must solely depend upon the fact that they were enrolled at
the port of Paducah in that State.. But, if enrollment at that
place was within the statutes, it is wholly immaterial, since
the previous decisions to which we have referred decisively
establish that enrollment is irrelevant -to the question of taxation, -because the power of taxation of vessels depends either
upon the actual domicil of the owner- or the permanent situs
of the property within the taxing jurisdiction. The court below, however, did not apparently decline to apply the previous
decisions of this court, but treated them as inapposite, under
the assumption that they were rendered before the act of 1884,
and that the necessary effect of that statute was to change the
general law so as to cause vessels to be subject to taxation
within a State where they were enrolled, although that State
was neither the residence of the owner nor the place of the
actual situs of the property. As the ruling below was made
before the decision of this court in the Old Dominion Steamship Company case, rendered since the act of 1884, we might
well leave the demonstration of the error into which the court
fell to result from the decision of that case, since the ruling
below is wholly inconsistent with that decision. This clearly
follows, since in the Old Dominion Steamship case the right of
the State of Virginia to tax was based upon the permanent
situs of the vessels in Virginia, although they were enrolled
in another State. But in view of the general importance of
the subject we shall briefly point out the mistaken construction
given by the court below to the act of 1884.
After referring to the act of 1884, and quoting the provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Rev. Stat. sec. 4i78, as now existing, the court below
said:
"Appellee had a right to cause its boats to be registered at
Paducah, although that was not the place nearest to the port
where it resided;* and it fully complied with the law regulating
the subject, by painting the words 'of Paducah, Ky.,' on the
stern thereof; and by the amendment of 1884, Paducah
became the home port of the vessels so registered and
marked."
*

*

*

*

*.

*

*,

*

"The steamboats involved in this litigation are separated
from the residence of their owner by a long distance in both
geography and time; in fact, they can never visit the port at
which their owner resides; they are, so far as their actual situs
is concerned, permanently confined to the rivers over which
they float; if their home port had to be Chicago, because that
is the, residence of their owner, as under the law prior to 1884,
then they would have a home port from which they could
derive no advantage or protection, because they could never
reach it. It was to obviate this hardship, with.others, that the
act of 1884 was passed by Congress, permitting their owners
to select for them a home port in the field of their operations,
which is for them a .home port in fact, as well as in law and
name.. Property, such as that under consideration, ought,
logically, to be taxed At'its own home port; there it can be
seen and properly valued-for assessment by the fiscal officers;
whereas, at the residence of its owner (Chicago), the officers,
of necessity, must rely on the statements of the latter for both
its existence and its value. At its home port it enjoys the
protection of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is located,
and both justice and reason would seem to require that property thus permanently located, both in legal contemplation
and in fact, within a jurisdiction foreign to that of its owner,
should contribute its'fair share to the support of that government whose protection it enjoys."
. It is at'ofice apparent that this line of reasoning, whilst it

AYER & LORD CO. v. KENTUCKY.
202 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

asserts the principle of actual situs and expourids the act of
1884 as making that the exclusive rule to test the power to
tax, at once causes the act to destroy the very principle which
it was assumed the act upheld. This is the inevitable consequence of the conclusion reached by the court below, that the
act of 1884 endowed the owner of a vessel with the power,
simply by the painting a name of a place upon his vessel, to
make such place the situs for taxation, although it might be
neither the actual situs of the property nor the residence of
the owner.
The act in question was an elaborate out, containing thirty
sections, relating to the American merchant marine, and was
entitled "An act to remove certain burdens on the American
merchant marine and encourage the American foreign carrying trade and for other purposes." 23 Stat. 53. The only
provision contained in that act which had any reference to the
subject under consideration and which was relied upon in the
court below was section 21, which we have previously quoted,
and which we again copy:
"SEc. 21. That the word 'port,' as used in sections fortyone hundred and seventy-eight and forty-three hundred and
thirty-four of the Revised Statutes, in reference to painting
the name and port of every registered or licensed vessel on
the stern of such vessel, shall be construed to mean either the
port where the vessel is :registered or enrolled, or the place in
the same district where the vessel was built or where one or
more of the owners reside."
Clearly this section does not essentially change the prior
general law respecting enrollment, as it simply enlarges the
power of an owner in regard to painting on the stern of his
vessel the name of the place from which he may desire to hail
her. The prior provisions as to enrollment clearly exacted
that the owner, as an incident to enrollment, should mark upon
his vessel the name of the place of enrollment; in other words,
compelled the owner to hail his vessel from the place of enrollment, although he might be domiciled elsewhere. Now,

DCTOBER TERM, 1905.
0

Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

as the settled rule at the time of the passage of this act was
that enrollment, and consequent marking of the stern of the
vessel with the name of the place of enrollment, was not the
criterion by which to determine the power of taxation, it is
impossible to conceive that Congress intended, by merely
conferring a privilege to select the name of a place other than
the port of enrollment to be marked upon a vessel, to overthrow the settled rules in regard to taxation of such property
which existed at the time of the passage of the act of 1884. To
give to the statute the construction adopted by the court below
would be simply to hold that its purpose was to endow the
owner with the faculty of arbitrarily selecting a place for the
taxation of his vessel in defiance of the law of domicil and in
disregard of the. principle of actual situs, since by the statute
the owner was given the right to paint either the name of the
place where the vessel was built, where enrolled, or where one
of the owners resided. And this demonstrates the misconception of the construction given to the act of 1884 by the
court below, since the court declared that the whole effect of
the act was to endow the owner of vessels with the power to
select, by marking on the stern, a place "in the field of operations," which should be the place of taxation. But no such
limitation as the field of operations can be implied from the
language of the statute, and, therefore, if the construction
adopted were upheld the unlimited right of the owner to
arbitrarily frustrate the taxing laws of the State where he was
rightfully subject to taxation would result.
Unddubtedly, as we have said, the general statutes as to
enrollment in force prior to 1884 required that the name of
the port to be painted upon the vessel should be the port of
enrollment, although such place might not be the domicil. of
the owner. In practice, however, that rule was not always
observed, because the owners of vessels desired to hail them
from the place of the residence of the owner. The Albany, 4
DiU. 439. And thd history of the adoption of the provision
now known as section 21 of the act of 1884 referred to leaves

AYER & LORD CO. v. KENTUCKY.
202 U. S.

427

Opinion of the Court.

no room for doubt that Congress simply intended to legalize
such practice. The provision had its origin in an amendment unanimously reported by the Committee on Commerce
of the Senate on May 1, 1884, to a bill then pending in the
Senate. The chairman of the committee, in reporting the
proposed amendment, said (15 Cong. Rec. p. 3650):
"Mr. FRYE. The next amendment I am authorized to offer
is a section in reference to the painting of the name of the ship
on the stern. Not very important that must appear to Senators. Many of our shipowners in the State of Maine think
more of that than they do of the rest of this bill. The man
who owns a ship looks upon her as his wife or his children;
he loves his ship; and under the law as it stands to-day he
is required to paint on the stern the name, it may be that of
his wife or of his daughter and the port to which she belongs.
For seventy-five years the. port to which she belonged was
construed to be the place where she was owned, and if a man
built a ship in Surry, and she was owned there, he painted on
the stern the 'May Ann,.from Surry, Me.' In 1875 a sharp
Treasury official discovered that it was a violation of the law.
He reported to the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary issued an order that all those ships must bear the name
of the port of entry, regardless of where they were built or
owned. They are building vessels, home vessels, owned at
home, owned in families, in many instances by the blacksmith, the carpenter, the captain, and the mate. Their vessels they wish to name after one of the family and the home,
the place where she is owned and built, and yet under the
construction of the Treasury Department she may be the
'Julia Ann,' from Machias, her port of entry, but actually
built and owned a hundred miles from there. Take Bath and
Richmond, on the Kennebec River-Bath, the greatest shipbuilding city in the United States to-day of wooden' ships;
her rival, Richmond, is fifteen miles above. The men who
build, their ships in Richmond regard it as about as serious a
wrong as can be imposed upon them by law to compel them

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

to put a ship built there and owned there under the name of
Bath, her port of entry, and Bath would fully reciprocate under
like circumstances. I take it that no Senator will object to
that provision.
"Mr. HALE. Just there let me ask my colleague, was not
the reason for the ruling of the Secretary of the Treasury that
the technical view was taken of the word 'port,' and it was
concluded there could be nothing but the port of entry, thereby
taking away this privilege from the men who built the ship?
"Mr. FRYE. I so understand it."
And, without debate, the amendment was adopted, and
subsequently, with other amendments, was incorporated as
part of the bill which came from the House of Representatives,
relating to the same general subject as the bill which was under
consideration in the Senate. 15 Cong. ,Rec. pp. 3869, 3973,
5440.
The suggestion that because the vessels were enrolled at
Paducah the owner was estopped from disputing that they
had a situs for taxation there, is but to contend that the place
of enrollment was per se controlling, in disregard of the repeated rulings of this court to the contrary.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky must be
reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

