UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

101

Syllabus.

District Court had no jurisdic tion of this aption, and consequently. the proceedings had therein were null and void.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissenting.
As it is conceded that the question upon which the judgment
is now reversed was not saved in the court below, I am con-strained to dissent. In my opinion the error, if any, was a
mere question of mode of procedure, involving no want of jurisdiction ratione materc, even conceding that the presence of a

question of such a character would authorize this court to reverse-in the absence of any exception in the court below
or any reference to the question in that court.
MR. JUSTICE' MCKENNA

concurs in this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
EASTERN CHEROKEES v. CHEROKEE NATION AND
UNITED STATES.

CHEROKEE NATION v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 346, 347, 348.

Argued January 16, 17, 18, 1906.-Decided April 30, 1906.

Under see. 68 of the Cherokee Act of July. 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 726, as construed by the act of March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 996, and the agreement of.
December 19, 1891, providing for the sale of, the Cherokee outlet, the
Court of Claims had jurisdiction of all claims of the Cherokee Indian-s
against the United States, and the claims were to be reopened and reexamined de novo, and the. court and the accountants were 'to go behind
statutory and treaty bars and rebeipts in full, and were to consider any
alleged and declared amount of money promised but withheld under any
treaty or law.
The United States, as stated in the Slade & Bender account made under
the agreement of December 19, 1891, and as found by the Court of Claims,
is liable to the Cherokee Nation for $1,111,284.70, the amount paid for
the removal of the Eastern Cherokee Indians to the Indian Territory,
improperly charged to the treaty fund.
The questiorl whether interest should be allowed on this fund having been
submitted, under the Eleventh Article of the Cherokee Treaty of 1846, to
the Senate of the United States, and that body having, by resolution

OCTOBER TERM, .1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

found that interest should be allowed at five per cent from June 12, 1838,
until paid, the amount of interest was one of the subjects of difference
referred to theCourt of Claims under the act of July 1, 1902, and that
court had jurisdiction to allow interest, and correctly awarded it at the
rate, and from the time specified, in the Senate resolution.
Tlhe term, Cheroke Tribe or any band thereof, as used in the act of July 1,
1902; means the Cherokee people as a people, and not the Cherokee
Nation as a body politic, and the Court of Claims correctly decided that
the amount awarded to the Cherokee Nation be paid to the Secretary
of thle Interior to be- by him received and distributed to the persons
entitled thereto, but such distribution should be made as to the Eastern
Cherokees as individuals whether East or West of the Mississippi, parties
to the treaties of 1835, 1836 and 1846, exclusive of the Old Settlers.
The Eastern and Emigrant Cherokees are not entitled to their demand
of one-fourth of the entire sum awarded, but only to per capita payment
with the Eastern Cherokees.

SECTION 68 of the act of Congress of July 1,f902, entitled
"An act to provide for the allotment of the lands of the Cherokee Nation, for the disposition of town sites therein, and for
other purposes," 32 Stat. 716, 726, reads as follows:
"Jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon the Court of Claims
to examine, consider, and adjudicate, with a right of appeal
to the Supreme Court of the United States by any party in
interest feeling aggrieved at the decision of the Court of Claims
any claim which the Cherokee tribe, 'or any band thereof,
arising under treaty stipulations, may have against the United
States, upon which suit shall be instituted within two years
after the approval of this act; and also to examine, consider,
and adjudicate any claim which the United States may have
against said tribe, or any band thereof. The institution,
prosecution, or defense, as the case may be, on the part of the
tribe or any band, of any such suit, shall be through attorneys
employed and to-be compensated in the manner prescribed in
sections twenty-one hundred and three to twenty-one hundred
and six, both inclusive, of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, the tribe acting through its principal chief in the employment of such attorneys, and the band acting through a
committee recognized by the Secretary of the Interior. The
Court of Claims shall have full authority, by proper orders and

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statement of *theCase.

process, to make parties to any such suit all persons whose
presence in the litigation it may deem necessary or proper to
the final determination of the matter in controversy, and any
such suit shall, on motion of either party, be advanced on the
docket of either of said courts and be determined at the earliest
practicable time."
February 20, 1903, the Cherokee Nation filed a petition in
the Court of Claims asking judgment on an account rendered
by Slade & Bender, pursuant to the treaty of March" 3, 1893
(27 Stat. 640), with interest.
March 3, 1903, an act was approved entitled "An act making appropriations for the current and contingent expenses
of the Indian Department and for fulfilling treaty stipulations
with various Indian tribes for the fiscal year ending June
thirtieth, nineteen hundred 'and four, and for other purposes,"
32 Stat. 982, 996, containing the following provisions:
"Section sixty-eight of the act of Congre.s entitled 'An
act to provide for the allotment of the lands of the Cherokee
Nation, for the disposition of town sites therein, and for other
purposes,' approved July first, nineteen hundred and two,
shall be so construed as to give the Eastern Cherokees, so
called, including those in the Cherokee Nation and those who
remained east of the Mississippi river, acting together or as
two bodies, as they may be advised, the status of a band or
bands, as the case may be, for all the purposes of said section:
Provided, That the prosecution of such suit on the part of the
Eastern Cherokees shall be through attorneys employed by
their proper authorities, their compensation for expenses and
services rendered in relation to such claim to be fixed b the
Court of Claims upon the termination of such suit; and said
section shall be further so construed as to require that both
the Cherokee Nation and said Eastern Cherokees, so called,
shall be made parties to any suit Which may be instituted
against the United States under said section upon the claim
mentioned in House of Representatives Executive Document
numbered three hundred and nine of the second session of the

104

'OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

Fifty-seventh Congress; and if said claim shall be sustained
in whole or in part the Court of Claims, subject to the right
of appeal named in said section, shall be authorized to render
a judgment in favor of the rightful claimant, and also to
determine as between the tifferent claimants, to whom the
judgment so rendered equitably belongs, either wholly or in
part, and shall be -required to determine whether, for the
purpose of participating in said claim, the Cherokee Indians
who remained cast of the Mississippi river constitute a part
of the Cherokee Nation, or of the Eastern Cherokees, so called,
as the case may be."
The claim mentioned in said H. R. Ex. Doc. No. 309, 57th
Cong., 2(1 sess., is therein referred to as "the award rendered
under the Cherokee agreement of December 19, 1891, ratified
by act of Congress approved March 3, 1893."
March 14, 1903, a petition. was filed on behalf of all the
Eastern Cherokees, both west and east of the Mississippi
river, alleging in substance that there was'due to the Eastern
Cherokees, upon the account of Slade & Bender, the sum of
$1,111,284.70, with interest from June 12, 1838, as an award
against the United States or, if the court should not hold said
account as an award, the sum of $1,761,447.27, with interest
at 5 per cent from the same date, together with interest on
the income annually accruing, at- the rate of five per cent per
annum until paid, by virtue of the treaties of 1828 (7 Stat.
313), and the treaty of 1835-36, commonly known as the
"treaty of New Echota." But at the trial of the case no
contention was made for this larger amotint.
March 20, 1903, a petition was .filed on behalf of certain
Eastern Cherokees, living east of the Mississippi, amended
September 3, 1903, when petitioners took the title of the
Eastern and Emigrant Cherokees, asserting their claim to a
pro rata share of"That portion of the removal and subsistence fund improperly taken by the United States from the five million
fund on account of removal of Eastern Cherokees, as found

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

by the expert accountants, Messrs. Slade & Bender, April 28,
1894, the said five million fund being an interest-bearing fund
in the hands of the United States, as trustee, and representing
the money paid by the Government to the Eastern Cherokees
for the sale of their lands in North Carolina, Georgia, and
Tennessee, or east of the Mississippi river, as set forth in
article 1st of the treaty of New Echota, in north Georgia,
on March 14, 1835, and articles 2 and 3 of the supplemental
treaty, proclaimed May 23, 1836, this sum so misapplied
amounting, in accordance with said accounting, to $1,111,284.70
with interest at 5 per cent per annum from the date of said
wrongful taking, June 12, 1838, to date."
The three petitions were consolidated and heard as one case,
and although in effect the proceedings were in equity, findings
of fact and conclusions of law were filed.
Among the facts found were these:
"XVIII.
"By section 14 of the act of Congress entitled 'An act
making appropriations for the current and contingent expenses of the Indian Department, and for fulfilling treaty
stipulations with various Indian tibes. for the year ending
June 30, 1889, and for other purposes,' approved March 2,
1889 (25 Stat. 1005), the President was authorized to appoint
three commissioners to negotiate with the Indian tribes owning or claiming lands lying west of the ninety-sixth degree of
longitude in the Indian Territory for the cession to the United
States of all their title, claim, or interest of every kind or character in and to said lands, and he did appoint David H. Jerome,
Alfred M. Wilson and Warren G. Sayre such commissioners.
"By virtue of the authority contained in an act of the
Cherokee -National Council, approved November 16, 1891,
Elias C. Boudinot, Joseph A. Scales, 1.oach Young, William
Triplett, Thomas Smith, Joseph Smallwood, and George
Downing kere duly appointed commissioners"'To meet and enter into negotiati&;ns with the above-named

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Caw.

202 U. S.

commission, appointed by the President of the United States,
for the cession of the lands of the Cherokee Nation west of the
96th degree of west longitude, and for the final adjustment
of all questions of interest between the United States and the
Cherokee Nation which are now unsettled.'
"By said act of Congress it was made the duty of said commissioners.appointed by the President to report all agreements
resulting from such negotiations to the President, to be by
him reported to the Congress at its next session, and by the
act of the Cherokee council it was made the duty of the commissioners on the part of the Cherokee Nation to report all
their proceedings in full to the National Council for its approval and ratification. Ex. Doe. 56, 52d Cong., 1st sess., 17.
"At the outset of the negotiations between said commissioners for the purchase and sale of said lands, which were
known as the 'Cherokee Outlet,' the commissioners on the
part of the Cherokee Nation renewed their claims and contentions with respect to the balances alleged to be due to them
under various treaties, and particularly their contention that
the so-called treaty fund had been improperly charged with
the expense of the removal of the Eastern Cherokees to the
Indian Territory, and demanded as 'a condition precedent
to any agreement for the sale of the land' that some adjustment of such contentions should be made.
"On the 19th of December, 1891, after prolonged negotiations, the commissioners above named entered into articles
of agreement, by article I of which it was agreed that"The Cherokee Nation, by act duly passed, shall cede and
relinquish all its title, claim, and interest of every kind and
character in and to that part of the Indian Territory bounded
onthe west by the one hundredth (100') degree of west longitude, on the north by the State of Kansas, on the east by the
ninety-sixth (960) degree west longitude, and on the south
by the Creek Nation, the Territory of Oklahoma, and the
Cheyenne and Arapahoe Reservation created or defined by
Executive order, 'dated August 10, 1860, the tract of land

UNITED STATES V. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

embraced within the above boundaries containing eight million
one hundred and forty-four thousand six hundred and eightytwo and ninety-one one-hundredths (8,144,682.91) acres, more
or less.'
"By article 2 that"For and in consideration of the above cession-and relinquishment the United States agrees:'
"First. That it will remove from the limits of the Cherokee
Nation as trespassers certain described persons.
"Second. That a certain article of the antecedent treaty
of July, 1866, should be abrogated and held for naught."Third. That the judicial tribunals of the Cherokeee Nation
should have exclusive jurisdiction in certain cases.
"Fourth. That"The United States shall, without delay, render to the
Cherokee Nation, through any agent appointed by authority
of the National Council, a complete account of moneys due the
Cherokee Nation under any of the treaties ratified' in the
years, 1817, 1819, 1825, 1828, 1835-36, 1846, 1866, and 1868,
and any laws passed by the Congress of the United States for
the purpose of carrying said treaties, or any of them, into
effect; and upon such accounting, should the Cherokee Nation,
by its National Council conclude and determine that such
accounting is incorrect or unjust, then the Cherokee Nation
shall have the right,, within twelve months, to enter suit
against the United States in the Court of Claims, with the
right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States by
either party, for any alleged or declared amount of money
promised but withheld by the United States from the Cherokee Nation, under any of said treaties or laws, which -maybe
claimed to be omitted from, or improperly or unjustly or
illegally adjusted in, said accounting; and the Congress of
the United States shall, at its next session, after such case
shall be finally decided and certified to Congress according
to law, atpropriate a sufficient sum of money to pay such
judgment to the Cherokee Nation, should judgment be ren-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

dered in her favor; or if it shall be found upon such accounting
that any sum of money has been so withheld, the amount
•hall be duly appropriated by Congress, payable to the Cherokee Nation, upon the order of its National Council, such appropriation to be made by Congress, if then in session, and if
not, then at the session imimediately following such accounting.'
"Fifth. That certain citizens of the Cherokee Nation should
have the right to select lands as homesteads under certain
conditions; and
"Sixth. In addition to all of the foregoing enumerated considerations for the cession and relinquishment of title to the
described lands, the United States shall pay to the Cherokee
Nation, at such times and in such manner as the Cherokee
National Council shall determine, the. sum of $8,595,736.12
in excess of the sum of $728,389.46, the aggregate of amounts
heretofore appropriated by Congress and charged against the
lands of the Cherokees west of the Arkansas river.
"Said articles of agreement were accepted, ratified, and
confirmed on the part of the Cherokee Nation by an act of the
National Council approved January 4, 1892, and were also accepted, ratified, and confirmed on the part of the
United
27
Stat.
640.
March
3,
1893,
States by act of Congress of
"Prior to the acceptance and ratification of said agreement
on the part of the United States, as aforesaid, the commissioners on behalf of the United States, as required by the law
under which they were appointed, had reported to the President the making of the articles of agreement aforesaid, and
by way of explanation said:
"'As to the conditions of the agreement, besides the relinqui'shment of title upon the one part and the payment of a
price in money on the other, it is necessary to state that the
settlement of the matters (ontaincd in such conditions were
made a condition precedent to any agreement for the sale of
the land.
"'The accounting provide(d for in the fo'urth subdivision
of
article 2 of the agreement is inserte(l and agreed to, because.

NITED STATES 'v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the Cherokees are compelled to accept the construction of the
treaties made by the executive and administrative branches
of the Government.
"'Whatever that construction is, the Indian must abide by.
There is no appeal except to Congress. Without going specifically into details the Cherokees claim that upon a just accounting upon a proper construction' of the treaties named, a large
sum of money, principal and interest, will'be found due them.
They also desire to include lands as well as nioncy, but they
were induced to eliminate "lands" from the provision. With
that eliminated the provision was agreed to, as set out. The
Governmient has made the accounting, has kept the books,
has construed the treaties. If that has been done properly,
no harlm can come from restating the account. If it has not
been done p'roperly, no possible reason can exist why the error
should not be corrected.' Sen. Ex. Doc. 56, 52d Cong.,
1st seas., pp. 11, 12.
"Gen. Thomas J. Morgan, Comnmissioner of Indian Affairs,
in his report to the Secretary of the Interior on February 6,
1892, made the following explanation and comment on the
fourth section of article 2, to wit:
I "'The fourth section of article 2 provides for an accounting
between the United States and the Cherokee Nation. The
work necessiry to render this account will be very heavy, and
much tcne will be necessary to properly prepare the same.
Oi this provision of the agreement the commissioners say:
'The Government has made the accounting, has kept the
books, has construed the treaties.. If this has been (lone
l)roperly no harm can come from restating the account. If
it has not been (lone properly no possible reason can exist
why the crior should not be.corrected. 'It creates no new
ollia:Ltions "maiist

the (Government, but only provides for

legal discl'arge of the ohl oIles.'
"'This seims to ine to be a reasoumable view to take of this
provision, and I do not see that amy valid objection could be
advanced against it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

"'In your reference of the matter to this office you
said:
"'Particular attention is called to section 4 of article 2 of
the agreement, with request for a full report as to what may
be the state of the account between the United States and the
Cherokees, if practicable, within a reasonable time; if not,
your general conclusions."
"'In reply to this indorsement I have the honor to say that
if this section is construed t.o require the United States to
state an account of uioneys stipulated to be paid to the Cherokee Nation, under the treaties therein specified and under the
various appropriation acts to carry the same into effect, this
account could be prepared, by this office within a reasonable
time, say about two months. If, on the other hand, it be
construed to require a detailed statement of all the moneys
received and disbursements made by the United States of the
Cherokee funds under said treaties and acts of Congress,
which seems to me to be the intention of the parties negotiating the agreement, it would require the services of an expert
accountant, with assistants, probably twelve months or more
to review and copy the Cherokee accounts and records running
back nearly a century.. In order to prepare a statement of
this kind it would require an appropriation by Congress of the
sum of at least $5,000 to pay for the services of an expert
accountant, and in the draft of a bill for the ratification of
the agreement herewith inclosed, I have provided for the
appropriation of that sum, .or so much thereof as may be necessary for that purpose.' Senate Ex. Doc. No. 56, 52d Cong.,
1st sess., p. 8.
"This report of the Commissioner was, on or about :February 8, 1892, referred by the Secretary of the Interior to the
Assistant 'Attorney-General for the Interior Department 'for
his consideration and report upon the legality of the contract,
the sufficiency of the proposed bill, and his views upon the
questions of law relating to the subject,' and on or about
February 25, 1892, said officer reported thereon, as appears

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in said Senate Executive Document 56, Fifty-second Congress,
first session, saying, among other things:
"'The, report and agreement were referred to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,, who, under (late of February 6, 1892,
reported favorably on tlhe agrecment, and transmitted with
his report the draft of a bill to be submitted to Congress to
ratify and carry out the provisions thereof. . . . The
agreement contains two articles. The first relates to the
cession and the second to the consideration therefor.
"' The considerations for said cession, as contained in article
2, are set forth under six subdivisions.'
"'The fourth and next provision of article 2 of the agreement
requires the United States to render' to the Cherokee Nation
a complete accounting of all money agreed to be. paid to -the
Indians or which they may be entitled to under any treaty
or act of Congress since 1817. And if said accounting is satisfactory Congress shall make the necessary appropriation to
pay the same. But if the accounting is not satisfactory, then
the Cherokees to have the right to institute suit in the Court
of Claims against the United States for the claimed amount,
and Congress is to make the necessary appropriation to pay
the judgment, if any, recovered.
"' I see nothing.in, the stipulations herein to commeo t upon.
It seems right and promotive of good feeling that there should
be a full and final settlement of all claims and accounts of
these Indians against the United States, and I think the terms
of agreement are sufficiently clear to secure such accounting.
"'The Commissioner. of Indian Affairs asks for a special appropriation of $5,000 to enable him to make the accounting.'
"All of these reports were before the Congress when it
accepted and ratified said articles of agreement by act of
March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 641, in the following language, to wit:
"'Which said agreement is fully set forth in the.message of
the President of the United States, communicating the same
to Congress, known as Executive Document No. 56 of' the
first session of the Fifty-second Congress, the lands referred

OCTOBER- TERM, 1905.

112

Statement of the Cae.

202 U. S

to being commonly known and called the "Cherokee Outlet;"
and said agreement is hereby ratified by the Congress of the
United States, subject, however, to the Constitution and laws
of the United States and to acts of Congress that have been
or may be passed regulating trade and intercourse with the
Indians, and subject also to certain amendments thereto, as
follows:

.

.

.

(Amendments not important here.)

.

"'And the provisions of said agreement so amended shall be
fully performed and carried out on the part of the United
States; provided that the money hereby appropriated shall
be immediately available, and the remaining sum of eight
million three hundred thousand dollars, or so much thereof
as is required to carry out the provisions of said agreement
as amended and according to this act, to be payable in five
equal instalments, commencing on the fourth day of March,
eighteen hundred and ninety-five, and ending on the fourth
(lay of March, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, said deferred payments to bear interest at the rate of four per centum per annum, to be paid annually, and the amount required for the payment -of interest as aforesaid is hereby appropriated;
*

*
*

*
*

,

,

*

*

.*,

"'The acceptance by the Cherokee Nation of Indians of any
of the money appropriated as herein set forth shall be considered and taken and shall operate as a ratification by said
Cherokee, Nation of Indians of said agreement, as it is hereby
proposed to be amended, and as a full and complete relinquishinent and extinguishment of all their title, claim, and
interest in and'to said lands;
,

*

.,

*

*

,

*

,*

*

,

"'And said lands, except the portion to be allotted as provi(ded ip isaid agreement, shall, upon the payment of the sum
of -two hun(red and niiety-five thousand seven hundred and
(hi-ty-iix, dollars, herein appropriated, to be immediately paid,
becoi iie," and be taken to be. and treated as a part of the public
I](
ll~ilII:

,:

.

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statnment of the Case.

"XIX.

"By'said act of March 3, 1893, ratifying said agreement for
the purchase of the 'Cherokee Outlet' the Congress also provided as follows:
"'The sum of five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, the same to be immediately available, is
hereby appropriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, to enable the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
to elnploy such expert person or persons to properly render
a complete account to the Cherokee Nation of moneys due said
Nation, as required in the fourth subdivision of article 2 of
said agreenient..
.'Thereafter Janmes A. Slade and Joseph T. Bender were
employed as experts under the l)rovisions of said section of
said act, and they made and rendered an account l)ursiant to
the provisions of paragraph 4 of article 2 of the articles of
agreement of December 19, 1891, as ratified and allir'med by
said act of. March 3, 1893. Said account was by the Secretary
of the Interior referred to the Commissioner of India Affairs
foi examination and report, and the same having been examined and app!oved by said Commissioner, was by the latter
returned to the Secretary of the Interior, who transmitted the
same to the Clierokee Nation by delivering a copy thereof to
R. F. Wyley, its properly constituted agent for receiving the
same, and said accounit so mad'eremldred, and trallsmitted
was accel)ted by the Cherokee Nation by an act of its National
Council approved December 1, 1894, and ni suit was thereafter brought by the Cherokei Nation against the United
States charging that said accoLut was in anywise incorrect or
unjust,, but, oim the contrary, the )rilcipal chief of the Cherokee Nation, as required by the act of its National Council
above referred to, did notify the Secretary of the Interior of
the acceptance of-said Nation of said account, as so stated by
Messes. Slade and Bender, and did request said Secretary of

of the Interior to notify the Congress of the United States of
VOL. CCii-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

such acceptance, and on the 7th of January, 1895, the Secretary of the Interior reported the entire matter to the Congress
in the following words::
'"SIR: I have the honor to herewith transmit, in compliance
with the provisions of the third subdivision of article 2 of the
agreement made December 19, 1891, with the Cherokee Indians, ratified by the act of Congress approved March 3, 1893
(27 Stat. 643), a certified copy of 'a complete account of moneys
due the Cherokee Nation under any of the treaties made in
the years 1817, 1819, 1825, 1833, 1835-36 , 1846, 1866, and
1868, and any laws passed by the Congress of the United States
for the purpose of carrying said treaties, or any of them, into
effect,' prepared in accordance with the provisions of the said
act of March 3, 1893, together with a certified copy of an act
of Cherokee. National Council accepting such accounting.
"'The Speaker of the House of Representatives.' House
Ex. Doc. No. 182, 53d Cong., 3d sess.
"XX.
"The report and accounting made by said James A. Slade
and Joseph T. Bender, referred to in the foregoing finding, is
in the words and figures which appear in House Executive
Document 182, Fifty-third Congress, third session. The conclusion thereof is as follows:
"'The foregoing statement covers, it is believed, every point.
at issue which can be raised under the treaties described in the
articles of agreement [a number of demands made by the
Cherokee Nation were disallowed], and the result of the finding is submitted in the following schedule:
Under the treaty of 1819:
Value of three tracts of land containing 1,700 acres, at
$1.25 'per acre, to be added to the principal of the
"school" fund...................................
(With interestfrom February 27, 1819, to date of paymeiat.)

$2,125 00

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Under treaty of 1835:
Amount paid for removal of Eastern Cherokees to the
Indian Territory, improperly charged to treaty fund..
(With interest from-June 12, 1838, to date of payment.)
Under treaty of 1866:
Amount received by receiver of public moneys at Independence, Kans., never credited to Cherokee Nation..
(With interest from January 1, 1874, to date of payment.)
Under act of Congress, March 3, 1893:
Interest on $15,000 of Choctaw funds applied in 1863 to
relief of indigent Cherokees, said inteiest being improperly charged to Cherokee national fund ..........
With interest from July 1, 1903, to date of restoration
of the principal of the Cherokee funds, held in trust in
lieu of investments.'

1,111,284 70

432 28

20,406 25

"'Washington, D, C., April 28, 1894.
JAS. A,. SLADE.
(Signed)
Jos. T. BENDER.'

"XXi.
"In arriving at the item of $1,111,284.70 the accountants
among other tabulations made the following statement of the

account.
"' Figuring upon the basis stated in the ninth article, of the
treaty of 1846, and following the Auditor's and Comptroller's
figures in the accounting of December 3, 1849, and eliminating
from the charges made against the total fund of, '$6,647,067
the excess of payments over the amounts appropriated by
the United States for that purpose, the true statement of the
account is as follows:
$1,540,572 27
...................
For improvements............
159,572 12
For ferries ............................................
264,894 09
For -spoliations ........................................
For removal and subsistence, being the
amount actually provided and expended
for these purposes, and consisting of the
$335,105
following items ......................
001 ,382,172 91.
1,04,0691
For debts and claims upon the Cherokee Nation ...........
For the additional quantity of land ceded to the Nation........

101,348 31
500,000 00

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.
For amount invested as the general fund of the Nation .......
For -subsistence furnished after expiration of one year, under agreement that it should be charged to treaty fund....

202 U. S.
500,880 00
172,316 47

4,621,756 17
For lands and possessions .............................. 5,000,000 00
For spoliations .........................................
264,894 09
Balance of $600,000 applicable to removal ...............
335,105 91
Appropriation of June 12, 1838 ......................... 1,047,067 00
'rom which deduct charges as above..................

6,647,067 00
4,621,756 17

Balance to be distributed per capita .....................
uct amount actually distributed as already explained...

2,025,310 83
914,026 13

Balance due ............................ .......

1,111-,284 70.

"The sum of $914,026.13, actually distributed to the Eastern
Cherokees in 1852, out of the above balance of $2,025,310.83,
was appropriated as follows:
Amount found due by Treasury officials, under article 9,
1846, in the report of the Auditor and Comptroller of
December 3, 1849 .................................... $627,603 95
Erroneous charge corrected by act of February 27, 1851 .... 96,999 42
Erroneous charge account subsistence, corrected by Congress, September 30, 1850 ....................... :..... 189,151 24
914,026 13

"This amount of $914,026.13 was distributed solely to
14,098 Eastern Cherokees in the West and 2,133 Eastern
Cherokees who remained East.
"Interest on the above sum of $914,026.13 at 5 per cent
from June. 12, 1838, was also appropriated by Congress and
distributed pr capita to said Eastern Cherokees in the same
payment.. The balance to be distributed per capita according
to the above report and which was not distributed, to wit,
$1,111,284.70, is the suin of which the Eastern Cherqkecs
complain they were deprived in the settlement of 1852; that
while they received only $56.31 per capita, excluding interest,

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

they should have received the further sum of $1,111,284.70,
or a total of $2,025,310.83, as appears in the above account
rendered as the true balance under article 9, making them a
total per capita of $124.78.
"The settlement made with the Old Settlers was as set forth
in Finding XVII.
"XXII.
"'Neither the whole or any portion of the various sums with
interest found and stated by the concluding schedule of the
so-called Slade-Bender report to be due to the Chtrokee Nation
under the treaties and acts of Congress therein referred to
have been paid to the Cherokee Nation, or to any officer,
agent, or other person acting in its behalf.
"With the exception of the provision contained in the act
of March 2, 1895, making appropriations for the legislative,
executive, and judicial expenses of the Government, directing
the Attorney General to review and report upon the conclusion of law disclosed in the account of Slade and Bender, and
the passing of the provisions of the acts of July 1, 1902, and
March 3, 1903, conferring jurisdiction upon the United States
Court of Claims to hear and determine these causes, the Congress has taken no action whatever with respect to the said
account of Slade and Bender or the amounts found due thereunder.
"Acting under said direction of March 2, 1895, above referred to, the Attorney General of the United States, on December 2, 1895, addressed a communication to. the Congress
wherein he advised that body of his disagreement with the
conclusions reached by said Slade and Bender. Said communication of the Attorney General was, on December 2, 1895,
by the Congress referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs
and or(lere(l to be printed, and the same appears in Senate
Executive Document No. 16, Fifty-fourth, Congress, first
session."
May 18, W005, the court "adjudged, ordered, and decreed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

that- the plaintiff, the Cherokee Nation, do have and recover
of and from the United States as follows:
Item 1. The sum of ........ ...........................

$2,125 00

With interest thereon at the rate of 5 per cent from
February 27, 1819, to 'date of payment.
Item 2. The sum of ....................................
With interest thereon at the rate of 5 per cent from
June 12, 1838, to date of pkyment.

1,111,284 70

Item 3. The sum of....................................
With interest thereon at the rate of 5 per cent from
January 1, 1874, to date of payment.
Item 4. The sum of ........... *.........................
With interest thereon from July 1, 1903, to date of pay-

432 28
20,406 25

ment.

"The proceeds of said several items, however, to be paid and
distributed as follows:
"The sum of $2,125, with interest thereon at the rate of
5 per cent from February 27, 1819; to date of payment, less
5 per cent thereof contracted by the Cherokee Nation to be
paid as counsel fees, shall be paid to the Secretary of the
Interior in trust for the Cherokee Nation, and shall be credited
on the proper books of account to the principal of the 'Cherokee school fund' now in -the possession of the United States
and held by them as trustees.
"The sum of $432.28, with interest thereon at the rate of
5 per cent from January 1, 1874, to date of payment, less
5 per cent thereof contracted by the Cherokee Nation to be
paid as counsel fees, shall be paid to the Cherokee Nation, to
be received. and receipted for by the treasurer or other proper
agent of said Nation entitled to receive it.
"The sum of $20,406.25, with interest thereon at the rate
of 5 per cent per annum from July 1, 1893, to (late of payment,
less 5 per cent thereof contracted by the Cherokee Nation to
be, paid as counsel fees, shall be paid to the Secretary of the
Interior and credited on the proper books of account to the
principal of the 'Cherokee national fund,' now in the possession
of the United States and held by them as trustee.

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"The sum of $1,111,284.70, with interest thereon from
June 12, 1838, to date of payment, less such counsel fees as
may be chargeable against the same under the provisions of
the contract with the Cherokee Nation of January 16, 1903,
and such other counsel fees and expenses as may be hereafter
allowed by this court under the provisions of the act of March 3,
1903, 32 Stat. 996, shall be paid to the Secretary of the Interior, to be by him received and held for the uses and purposes
following:
"First. To pay the costs and expenses incident to ascertaining and identifying the persons entitled to participate in
the distribution thereof and the costs of making such distribution.
"Second. The remainder to be distributed directly to the
Eastern and Western Cherokees, who were parties either to
the treaty of New Echota, as proclaimed May 23, 1836, or the
treaty of Washington of August 6, 1846, as individuals, whether
east or west of the Mississippi river, or to the legal representatives of such individuals.
. "So much of any of the above-mentioned items or amounts
,as the Cherokee Nation shall have contracted to pay as counsel fees under and in accordance with the -provisions of sections 2103 and 2106, both inclusive, of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, and so much of the amount shown in
item numbered two (2) as this court hereafter by appropriate
order or decree shall allow for counsel fees and expenses under
the provisions of, the act of March 3, 1903, above referred to,
shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury to the persons
entitled to receive the same, upon the making of an appropriation by Congress to pay this judgment.
"The allowance of fees and expenses by this court under
said act of March 3, 1903, is reserved until the coming
in of the mandate of the Supreme Court of the United
States."
The facts are stated in extenso in the report of the case, 40
C. Cl. 252, occupying some forty pages.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

Mr. Louis A. Pradt, Assistant Attorney General, for the
United States.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney and Mr. Charles Nagel, with
whom Mr. Edgar Smith was on the brief, for the Cherokee
Nation.
Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood for the Eastern and Emigrant
Cherokees.
Mr. Robert L. Owen and Mr. William H. Robeson, with whom
Mr. Robert V. Belt, Mr. James K. Joncs, Mr. Alalhew C.
Buller and Mr. .lJohn Vaile were on the brief, for the Eastern
Cherokees.
MR. CHIEF. JISTICE Furinu, after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
Of the four items of the amounts allowed, only one, that
for $1,111,284.70, need be considered here.
1. The correctness of the account is conceded, and the
question iswhether the United States were properly held liable
therefor. The Court of Claims ruled that the account renderedoby Slade and Bender under the agreement I)ctween the
United States and the Cherokee Nation, ratified by Congress,
was neither an award nor an account stated, but that the
United States were nevertheless liabh in the circumstances
for the balance found.
The case is thus put by.-Chief Justice Nott:
"But while the account was neither an award nor an
account stated, it must be concede(I that the scope of the
accounting was intende(.1 to be as broad as the causes of action
secured by the agreement to the Cherokee Nation 'the right
within twelve months to enter suit against the United States
yalleged or declared amount of
in the Court of Claims for ny
i byfli.hc United States from the
Money promised 1)ut wi thheh

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cherokee Nation, under any of said treaties or laws, whichi
may be claimed to be omitted from or improperly or unjustly
or illegally adjusted in said accounting.' That is to say, the
court, or the accountants, were to go behind statutory and
treaty bars and receipts in full and were to consider 'any
alleged or declared amount of money promised but withheld'
'under any of said treaties or laws.' This meant that there
were to be no technical defenses set.up, no pleas of res judicata,
no releases or relinquishments, compromises or settlements;
or it meant nothing.
"Interpreted in the light of :the long, sore controversy
which had existed between the parties, it is plain that the
Cherokees believed the agreement to mean (and the United
States allowed them so to believe) that all of their claims and
rights and equities were to be reopened and reexamine(l de
novo; and that upon the faith of that belief they made a
cession of the Outlet.
"In the opinion of the court this case is simply one to recover purchase money upon a contract of sale. Ordinarily, in
such a case, the cession would not be made, the (Iced would
not be delivered until the purchase money is paid or secured
or, at least, the amount be ascertained and liquidated. In
this case both parties wanted to expedite the. transaction.
It was important for the United States that the cession of the
territory should be made immediately; it was desirable for
the Cherokee Nation that' the purchase money should be paid
soon. But, nevertheless, the Cherokee Nation had the right
to immediate payment, and the agreement intended to secure
to them the next thing to it-the right to an early payment.
The accounting was merely 'a means to an end. The end was
the immediate paynent,' 'as near as might be', of the whole
considbration to be given for the .cession of the Outlet. When
the cession was made the purchase money was due; the only
thing remaining, which 'was' the 6bject 'of' the accounting,
Was 'iiscerthic'116ec
a
aiiomnf. This is not :the'case of a
party pros'ecfttinir ari"Inliuidated debt. but 'a case of sale

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

and delivery and non-payment of the purchase money for the
thing sold arid delivered. The United States were willing to
pay; the Cherokee Nation wanted the payment made at the
earliest possible day; both parties agreed upon a method by
which it should be paid as nearly immediately as was possible.
The United States were to render their account'without delay;'
if the Cherokee Nation accepted it, the amount was to be
appropriated by Congress; such 'appropriation to be made
by Congress, if then in session, and if not, then at the session
immediately following such :accounting.' If the Cherokee
Nation did not accept the accounting, or regarded it as incorrect or unjust, and carried it into the courts and recovered
a judgment, Congress was to appropriate 'at the its next
session after such case shall be finally decided.' Nothing was
left to the ordinary uncertainties and procrastinations of legislation, and no agreement could have made the obligation to
pay promptly more unequivocal and specific. Time was of
the essence of the contract, so far as the words of the parties
could make it.
"The court does not intend to imply that when the account
of Slade and Bender came into the hands of the Secretary of
the Interior he was bound, to transmit it to the Cherokee Nation. On the contrary, the Cherokee Nation had not agreed
to be bound by the'report of the accountants and could)not
claim that the United States should be. The accountant;ytwere
but the instrumentality of the United States in making out an
account. When it was placed in the Interior Department it
was as much within the discretion of the Secretary to accept
and adopt it or to remand it for alterations and corrections as
a thing could be. He was the representative of the United
States under whom the agreement had been made, and he was
the authority under which the account had been made out,
and when he transmitted it to the Cherokee Nation his transmission was the transmission of the United States. When the
account was thus received by the Cherokee Nation (May 21,
1894), the 'twelve months' of the agreement, within which

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Nation must consider it and enter suit against the other
party in the Court of Claims, began to run, and with the
Nation's acceptance of the account (December 1, 1894) the
session of Congress at which an appropriation should be made
became fixed and certain. The Secretary did not recall the
account; the United States never rendered another, and the
utmost authority which Congress could have exercised, if any,
was, at the same session, or, certainly within the prescribed
'twelve months,' to have directed the Secretary to withdraw
the account and notify the Cherokee Nation that another
would be rendered. The action of the Secretary of the Interior, combined with the inaction of Congress to direct any-.
thing to the contrary, makes this provision of the agreement
final and conclusive. The Cherokee Nation has parted with the
land, has lost the time' within which it might have appealed to
the courts, and has lost the right to bring the items which it
regards as incorrectly or unjustly disallowed to judicial arbitrament, and the United States are placed in the position of having broken and evaded the letter and spirit of their agreement."
Weldon, J., concurred with the Chief Justice in:a separate
opinion. Peelle, J., concurred in the judgment, but rested
his conclusion on the ground that the United States were
liable "to pay the expense of removal" of the Eastern Cherokees from their eastern home to the Indian Territory, under
the treaties of 1835-36 and 1846, 7 Stat. 478; 9 Stat. 871, and
therefore to pay.this conceded balance. The various treaties
from 1817 down, the legislation, accountings, and proceedingswere duly considered in arriving at the result reached. Wright,
J.., dissented.
We agree that the United States were liable, and think the
liability might well be rested on both grounds, that is, that
failing onp it could be sustained on the other, but we do not
deem it necessary to set forth in our own language what has
already been so well stated by Chief Justice Nott and Judges
Weldon and Peelle.
2. Recovery of the item of $1,111,284.70 was adjudged

OCTOIPER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

"with interest thereon at the rate of five per cent from June 12,

1838, to (late of payment," and it is contended that the Court
of Claims erred in this allowance of interest.
Under the eleventh article of the treaty of 1846 the Cherokees
agreed to submit to the Senate of the United States, as umpire,
the question wlether interest should be allowed on the sums
found due them. The Senate of the United States, as umpire,
on September 5, 1850, found that interest should be allowed,
in the following resolution: "Resolved, That it is the sense of
the Sente that interest at the rale of five per cent per annum
should be allowe(d upon the sius found due to the Easlern and
Western Cherokees, respectively, from the twelfth day of
Jlie, 1838, until paid."
The Cherokees who had emigrated prior to 1835, with accessions to that date, were known as'the "Old Settlers," or
"Western Cherokees," and in the case of the United Stats .v.
Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427, this court said in respect of the,
claim for interest:
"By the second resolution adopted by the Senate, as umwas decided that interest should be
pire, September 5, 185(4, it,
allowed, at the rate of five per vetuni per annum, upon the
surn found due the Western Cherokees, from Junie 12, 1838,
initil paid. As before stated, our conclusion is that the sum
theni found due \vas less than should have been found by the
amouniit of $2121:3763.94.
"hi der section 1091 of the Revised Statutes, no interest
can 'he allowed on any claim up t:othe tihue of the- rendition
of judgi ei, thereon l)y the Court, of Clainis, unless upon1 a.
conltrac(t expressly stipil ing for the payffielit of interest;'
and in Tillson v. United Stales, 100 U. S.43, it Nv'as held that'
a recovery of interest was not aitithorized under a private act
referring to the Court of Claiin1 a clailit foli ided Upon a contract with the United States, which did not expressly authorize,
such recovery. But in this case, the dculmd of interest
formed a subject of difference while the negotiations were
being carried on, the determination of which was provided for

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the treaty itself; that determination was arrived at as prescribed, was accepted as valid and binding by the United
States, and was carried into effect by the payment of
$532,896.90, found due, and of $354,583.25 for interest. 9 Stat.
556, c. 91.
"In view of the terms of the jurisdictional act and the conclusion reached in reference to the amount due, it appears to
us that the decision of the Senate in respect of interest is controlling, and that, therefore, interest must be allowed from
June 12, 1838, upon the balance we have heretofore indicated,
but not upon the item of $4,179.26, which stands upon different ground."
The Congress of the United States on numerous occasions
had recognized the force of the decision of the Senate and
made appropriations accordingly, appropriating the funds due
as interest.
On September 30, 1850, Congress appropriated to the Eastern
Cherokees, in reimbursing an amount improperly charged the
treaty fund for subsistence, the sum of $189,422.76, with the
provision:
"That interest be,paid -on the same at the rate of five per
cent per annum, according to a rcsolption of the Senate of the
fifth of September, eighteen hundred and fifty." 9 Stat.
544, 556.
On February 27, 1851, Congress, in appropriating the
amoumt of the per capita then conceded to be due the Eastern
Cherokees, to wit, $724,603.37, provided as follows:
"And interest on the above sum, at the rate of five per
centum per annum, from the twelfth day of June, eighteen
hundred aiid thirty-eight, until paid, shall be paid to them
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated."
9 Stat. 570, 572.
Congress on September 30, 1850, in appropriating the
amount of thc per capita, then conceded to be due the Old
Settlers, provided:
"That interest be allowed and paid upon the above sums

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

due respectively to the Cherokees and Old Settlers, in pursuance of the above-mentioned award of the Senate, under the
reference contained in the said eleventh article of the treaty
of sixth Augist, eighteen hundred and forty-six." 9 Stat.
544, 556.
The question of interest was a "subject of difference while
the negotiations were being carried on, the determination of
which was provided for in the treaty itself" in 1846, and in
the "agreement itself" in 1891, and is the same in principle
as in the case of the Old Settlers.
3. Was the recovery given proper destination by the decree?
We refer to the same item, as there is really no controversy
over the other three items, and the criticism as to the payment of item three is not material. If no proper agent of the
Cherokee Nation to receive the $432.28 can be found, it may
be received by the United States as trustee.
The jurisdictional act of March 3, 1903, provided that
"both the Cherokee Nation and said Eastern Cherokees, socalled, shall be made parties to any suit which may be instituted against the United States under said section upon the
claim mentioned;" and authorized the court "to render a
judgment in favor of the rightful claimants, and also to determine, as between the different claimants to whom the judgment so rendered equitably belongs, either wholly or in part."
In the petition filed by the Cherokee Nation in this case it
is declared that the Cherokee Nation is "a body politic,"
and "is, as such, the 'Cherokee tribe' mentioned in seption 68
of the act of Congress aforesaid [July .1, 1902, 32 Stat. 726],
and authoriied thereby to bring this proceeding." But the
language of the section is that jurisdiction is conferred to
adjudicate "any claim which the Cherokee tribe or any band
thereof, arising under treaty stipulations, may have against
the United States," and even if it were conceded that the
Cherokee Nation could be treated as a body politic,- not as a
body corporate, but in the sense of a governmental . community, we should say "the Cherokee tribe or any band

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thereof" means the Cherokee people as a people, or any band
thereof, and not the Cherokee Nation as a body politic.
It should be observed that the term "Cherokee Nation"
has been used as representing the people themselves; the
government of the Cherokees; and the Government as trustee
for all of its people, or for some of them as their rights might
appear.
In the treaty of July 2, 1791, the "Cherokee Nation" was
described as "all the individuals comprising the whole Cherokee Nation of Indians." In the treaty of 1835 these Indians
are referred- to as the "Cherokees" and as "The Cherokee
Nation." In the treaty of 1846 as "The Cherokee Nation,"
"The Cherokee People," and "The Cherokees."
Under the first article of the treaty of* 1846 the lands of the
Cherokee Nation belonged to the whole Cherokee people.
The lands sold east of the Mississippi river belonged to the
Cherokee people as then existing as communal property.
The Western Cherokees, so called, that is to say, the Old
Settlers, were paid for their interest in those lands as communal owners. 148 U. S. 427. They were paid individually,
a community within a community.
Mr. Chief Justice Nott treats of this matter thus:
"While the United States have always, or nearly always,
treated the members of an Indian tribe as communal owners,
they have never required that all the communal owners shall
join in the conveyance or cession of the land. From the necessities of the case, the negotiations have been with representatives of the owners. The chiefs and headmen have ordinarily been the persons who carried on the negotiations and
-who signed the treaty. But they have not formed a body
politic or a body corporate, and they have not assumed to
-hold the title or be entitled to the purchase money. They
have simply acted as representatives of the owners, making
the cession on their behalf, but allowing them to receive the
consideration per capita. In the present case the Cherokee
Nation. takes the place, so far as communal ownership is in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

volved, of the chiefs and headmen of the uncivilized tribes.
This, too, is consonant with the usage of nations. The claims
of individuals against a foreign power are always presented,
not by them individually, but by their government. The
claims are pressed as international, but the money received
is received in trust, to be paid over to the persons entitled to it.
"As to those Cherokees who remained in Georgia and North
Carolina, in Alabama and Tennessee, they owe no allegiance.
to the Cherokee Nation and the Nation owes no political protection to them. But they, as communal owners of the lands
east of the Mississippi, at the time of the treaty of 1835, were
equally interested, with the communal owners who were carried
to the West, in the $5,000,000 fund which was the consideration
of the cession, so far as it was to be distributed per capita.
The Cherokee Nation was not bound to prosecute their claims
against the United States for the unpaid balance of the
$5,000,*000 fund, but their rights were inextricably interwoven with the rights and equities of the Cherokees who were
citizens of the Nation, and the Nation properly made no distinction when parting with the Outlet but demanded justice
from the Cherokee point of view for all Cherokees who had been
wronged by the non-fulfillment of the treaty of New Echota.
As to these Eastern non-resident Cherokee aliens the Nation
acted simply as an attorney collecting a debt. Ii its hands
the moneys would be an implied trust for the benefit of the
equitable owners.
"After a careful consideration of the circumstances and
conditions of these cases, the court is of the opinion that the
moneys, awarded should be paid directly to the equitable
oWvlleI's.

And after referring to the present status of the Cherokee
Nation as about to terminate, the Chief Justice says:
"in this condition of affairs the court must regard the
Cherokee Nation as in a condition somewhat analogous to
that bf a trustee or receiver who has become insolvent; that
is to say, as a person who should not be entrusted with the

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

receipt. and distribution of the moneys belonging to other
persons."
The Court of Claims decreed that after deducting counsel
fees, costs and expenses, the sum of $1,111,284.70, with interest, should be paid to the Secretary of the Interior, to be
by him received and held for the uses and purposes of paying
costs and expenses as stated, and then distributing the remainder "directly to the Eastern and Western Cherokees,
who were parties either to the treaty of New Echota, as proclaimed May 23, 1836, or the treaty of Washington of August 6.
1846, as individuals,' whether east or west of the Mississippi
river, or to the legal representatives of such individuals."
The eighth finding of fact was as follows:
"The Cherokee Indians who removed west of the Mississippi
prior to May 23, 1836, were called 'Western Cherokees.'
After the removal, under the treaty of 1835-36, of the Cherokees
who had remained in the Cherokee country east of the Mississippi to the lands west of the Mississippi, the term 'Western
Cherokees' was no longer distinctive, and the Cherokees who
had theretofore been khown as such were thereafter popularly
known as 'Old Settlers.'
"The Cherokees who were domiciled east of the Mississippi
river at the time of the making of the treaty of 1835-36,
according to the census just then completed, were thereafter
known as 'Eastern Cherokees,' the great body of whom subsequently, in 1838, -moved to the lands west of the Mississippi."
So far as the "Old Settlers" are concerned, they have been
fully paid and cannot be allowed to participate in this distribution. There had been a settlement with these Cherokees,
which was reopened in the Old Settlers case, and they were
allowed to assert any and all claims on their part against the
United States. Judgment was thereafter rendered as to a
-portion of these claims in their favor, 148 U. S. 427, which
judgment was thereafter paid in full by the United States so
that these Old Settlers have no standing in this action. And,
VOL. cii-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

indeed, they never had nor asserted any interest whatever in
the claim herein involved and ar6 not claimants. In the settlement of 1851, the cost of removal with which they were charged,
did not diminish the fiwve million clollar treaty fund but came
entirely from the $600,000 added to that fund by the third
supplemental article of the treaty of New Echota, and the
payment that was made to them pursuant to the fourth article
of the treaty of 1846 was not a third of the residuum of the
treaty fund, but a sum equal to one-third. It was the Eastern
Cherokees only who were interested in that residuum, and so
article nine of that treaty provided for payment to the Eastern
Cherokees of that balance, and for a fair and just settlement
of all moneys due to the Cherokees and payment of the same
per capita to the Eastern Cherokees. The Cherokee Nation,
as such, had no interest in the claim, but officially represented
the Eastern Cherokees.
The act of February 27, 1851, appropriating the amount
due on the accounting under article nine of the treaty of 1846,
provided that it should be in full satisfaction of all claims and
demands of the Cherokee Nation and that a receipt in full
should be given. The receipts as given were signed by the
individual Eastern Cherokees.
We concur with the Court of Claims in the wisdom of rendering judgnent in favor of the Cherokee Nation, subject to
the limitation that the amount thereof should be paid to the
Secretary of the Interior to be distributed directly to the
parties entitled to it, but we think that the terms of the ,second
subdivision of the fourth paragraph of the decree, in directing
that the distribution be made to "the 'Eastern and Western
Cherokees," are perhaps liable to mnisconstruction, although
limited to those "who were parties either to the treaty of
New Echota as proclaimed May 23, 1836, or the treaty of
Washington of August 6, 1846, as individuals, whether east
or west of the Mississippi river." This should be modified
so as to direct the distribution to be made to the Eastern
Cherokees as individuals, whether east or west of the Mississ-

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

Opinion.of the Court.

ippi, parties to the treaties of 1835-36 and 1846, and exclusive of the Old Settlers.
-Inview of the language of the jurisdictional acts of 1902 and
1903 in respect of the Cherokee Nation, we are not disposed
to interfere with ,the Court of Claims in the allowance of fees
and costs.
It is true that in the replication of the Cherokee Nation to
the petition of the Eastern Cherokees this paragraph occurs:
"It denies that the Cherokee Nation in securing the accounting under the agreement of December 19, 1891, did so on
behalf of the Eastern Cherokees referred to, and for their
exclusive use and benefit; and further denie that if it had
collected or hereafter shall collect such moneys, the same
would have been or will be in its hands an implied trust for
the benefit of the Eastern Cherokees exclusively or otherwise."
It is also true that by the acts of June 7, 1897, June 28,
1898, and July 1, 1902, the Cherokee Nation was practically
incapacitated 'from acting as trustee, and by section 63 of the
Cherokee allotment act, 32 Stat. 725, c. 1375, it was provided
that "the tribal government of the Cherokee Nation shall not
continue longer than March fourth, nineteen hundred and six."
But by joint resolution of March 2, 1906, Congress provided
as follows:
"That the tribal existence and present tribal governments
of the Choctaw, Chickasaw, Cherokee, Creek, and Seminole
tribes or nations of Indians in the Indian Territory are hereby
continued in full force and effect for all purposes under exist-

ing laws until all property of such tribes, or the proceeds thereof,
shall be distributed among the individual members of said
tribes unless hereafter otherwise provided by law."
Nevertheless, taking the entire record together, the various
treaties, and acts of Congress, and of the Cherokee Councils,
and the language of the jurisdictional acts of 1902 and 1903,
we leave the decree as it is in respect to counsel fees and costs.
4. The Eastern and Emigrant Cherokees, in respect of whom
it is stated in their petition, "That they number aboht 4,500

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
202 U. S..

Syllabus.

persons, more or less, all Eastern Emigrant Cherokees, residing for the most part in Cherokee, Graham, Swain, Clay, and
Macon Counties, North Carolina, some in north Georgia,
northern Alabama, and eastern Tennessee, together with about
1,500 emigrants, portions of their various families, gone West,
nearly all of whom have been recognized as citizens and who.
compose a large portion of those persons heretofore known as
the Eastern band of Cherokee Indians of North Carolina, And
others of the same class, whose names or those of whose ancestors may be found on the rolls of 1835 and 1838," asked
that one-fourth part of the whole sum recovered be set apart
for them as their distributive share. But we think they are
only entitled to receive the per capita payment with the
Eastern Cherokees, and shofild obtain that payment accordingly.
The result is, that with the modification of the second subdivision of the fourth paragraph of the decree, relating to
the $1,111,284.70 with interest, above indicated, the decree
of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.

WHITNEY, WARDEN OF THE IDAHO STATE PENITENTIARY v. DICK.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEAL

FROM

AND

CERTIORARI

TO

THE

APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
Nos. 494, 557.

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

CIRCUIT.

Submitted April 3, 1906.-Decided April 30, 1906.

Final orders of the Circuit Court of Appeals may be brought ,to this court,
of right, only where the matter in dispute exceeds $1,000, and there is
no appeal where, as in a habeas corpus proceeding, no amount is involved.
The Circuit Court of Appeals is a court created by statute and is not endowed with any original jurisdiction; and as there is no language in the
statute which can be construed into a grant of power to issue a writ of
habeas corpus, unless it be one in aid of a jurisdiction already existing,

