MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK v. WEHRMANN. 295
202 U. S.

Syllabus.

claim as a lessee. We think that this matter does not deserve
discussion at greater length.
It is said that the defendant Renfrow is estopped by the payment of five hundred dollars to Shields by force of the act of
1897, c. 8, § 7, to the effect that any person "having knowingly
received and accepted the benefits, or any part thereof, or any
conveyance, mortgage or contract relating to real estate, shall
be concluded thereby and estopped to deny the validity of such
conveyance, mortgage or contract, or the power or authority
to make and execute the same, except on the ground of fraud."
But here again we axe met by the findings and the facts. The
check given to Shields was not a payment to Renfrow. Shields
had not even oral authority. to convey or to receive the purchase money,. The terms of Renfrow's letter to Halsell about
the deed show that he had not accepted the delivery of the
check as a payment then, and since then it would seem that
neither party to the litigation has been willing to accept the
money.
.It appears to us unnecessary to amplify further the reasons
for affirming the judgment below.
Judgment affirmed.

MERCHANTS'

NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI v.
WEHRMANN.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 256.

Argued April 26, 1906.-Decided May 14, 1906.

Where a national bank sued for debts of a partnership, shares of which it
had taken as security and afterwards acquired in payment of the debt,
sets up at every stage of the suit its intention of relying on the bankruptcy law of the United States, it cannot be required in the first instance
to anticipate the specific and qualified form in which the immunity finally
was denied; and if in addition thereto there is a certificate of the state
court to the effect that it Was material to consider the question of the

pa6

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

202 U. S.

iank's power under the banking law to becQme liable for the debt and
hat the decision was against the bank, this court has power on writ of
Ior to review the judgment.
ile a national bank may take by way of security property in which it
i not authorized to invest, and may become the owner thereof by foreclosure in satisfaction of the debt; but, without deciding whether it could
take shares in a partnership formed for purely speculative purposes as
security, it cannot, even in satisfaction of a debt so secured, become the
absolute owner of such shares. It would be ulra vires and as it cannot
take the shares it is not, and cannot be held, liable for any of the debts
of the firm.
A national bank which has taken such shares in satisfaction of a debt is
not estopped either from denying that it was a partner or that it is liable
for the debts of the firm.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. C. Herron for plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction under a similar ruling in California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362. The ruling of the
state court necessarily rested upon a congruction of the national bank act.
The merits of this case are also covered by CaliforniaBank
v. Kennedy. See also Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman
Co., 139 U. S. 24; First Nat. Bank v. Converse, 200 U. S. 425.
Mr. C. Bentley Matthews, with whom Mr. J. H. Ralston, Mr.
Joseph B. Kelley and Mr. William J. Shroder were on the brief,
for defendants in error:
There was no Federal question involved or raised at any
stage of the action.
It is not a.Federal question unless some privilege or immunity or right secured by .a Federal law is denied. The
mere ordinary making of contracts and conducting the business of the bank and the obligations that ensue either from
contract or from tort are not Federal questions. Nobody
denies that a corporation, whether under the revised acts of
the United States, or acts of the state legislature cannot
perform acts ultra vires, but the section 5136 expressly permits
the making of contracts, and the exercise of all powers apper-

-

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK v. WEHRMANN. 297
202 U.S.

Argument for Defendants in Error..

taining to such companies that are usual and incidental to the
carrying on of the business for which they are chartered and
the application of the rules of common law and equity to its
acts follows as a matter of course. The application of these
rules does not raise a Federal question. Inez Mining Co. v.
Kinney, 46 Fed. Rep. 832; Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149;
Leonard v. U. S. & P. R. R. Co., 198 U. S. 416; Pierce v. Somerset Ry., 171 U. S. 641, 648; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361;
Seneca Nation v. Christy, 162 U. S. 283; Gillins v. Stinchfield,
159 U. S. 658; Speed v. McCarthy, 181 U. S. 269; Pa. R. R.
Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Cook County v. Calumet & Chicago Canal Co., 138 U. S. 635.
A bank in common with other corporations is not bound, in
a legal sense, by contracts beyond the scope of its charter
powers-in other words, ultra vires. But when a contract is
legal, the results that follow are those that usually follow such
contracts in other cases, and the validity of the contract and
its obligation depend upon the ordinary principles of the statutory or common law of the State, and do not raise a Federal
question. In this case, the papers executed by the parties
made out a partnership. Clagget v. Kilbourne, 1 Black, 346;
Yeoman v. Leslie, 46 Ohio St. 190; Hulitt v. Fairbanks, 40
Ohio St. 233; McFadden v. Leea, 48 Ohio St. 513; Chester v.
Dickinson, 54 N. Y. 1; Batty v. Adams Co., 16 Nebraska, 44;
Robins v. Butler, 24 Illinois, 387; Heirs of Ludlow v. Cooper's
Devisees, 4 Ohio St. 1.
A partnership may exist with transferable shafes. Wadsworth v. Dunn, 164 Illinois, 360; Wells v. Wilson, 3 Ohio, 425;
Rianhard v. Hovey, 13 Ohio, 300; Jones v. Clark, 42 California,
180; Lindley on Partnership, 363, § 5.
The indebtedness of the partnership. follows the interest
transferred like a transfer of a share of the stock as is said in
Brown v. Hitchcock, 36 Ohio St. 667; Lindley on Companies,
6th ed. 665; Mayhew's Case, 5 De G. MeN. & G. 848; Wells v.
Wilson, 3 *Ohio, 425.
A bank in. working out its security may do, in that behalf,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

whatever other persons may do under like circumstances.
First Nat. Bank v. Nat. Exchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122. It is
not necessary for us in this case to resort to the decision of
National Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 629, nor to go that far.
If the bank had acquired the Ownership in the syndicate
property otherwise than by taking it in payment of or as security for a previously contracted valid indebtedness, the transaction would have been ultra vires and void and could not be
confirmed or ratified. Earle v. Carson, 188 U. S. 52. But if
the. bank, in order to secure and in payment of a valid debt
due it, acquired ownership of property, it is not an ultra
vires act, and it cannot escape liability for its own acts. And
an action can be maintained in the state courts to recover indebtedness incurred in. preserving and enhancing the value of
the security under the act of August 13, 1888. Roebling v.
First National Bank of Richmond, 30 Fed. Rep. 744; Cockrill
v. Abeles, 86 Fed. Rep. 505; Cooper v. Hill, 94 Fed. Rep. 94;
Libby v- Union Nat. Bank, 99 Illinois, 622; Upton v. South
Reading 'National Bank, 120 Massachusetts, 153; Reynolds v.
Crawfordsville First National Bank, 112 U. S. 405; First National Bank v. Exchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122.
MR. JUSTIcE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill for the dissolution of a partnership, a receiver
and an account. The partnership was formed to purchase,
imhprove, divide into lots and sell a leasehold. There were
forty shares in the firm, represented by transferable certificates. The plaintiff in error took nine of these shares as security for a debt, and afterwards became the owner of them in
satisfaction of the debt, subject to the question whether the
transaction was within the powers of a national bank. It was
*found at the trial that the partners must contribute to pay the
debts of the firm, and some of them being insolvent the Bank
was charged with the full share of a solvent partner. The Supreme Court of the State held this to be wrong, but decided
that the Bank became a part owner of the property and that,

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK v. WEHRMANN. 299
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as it joined in the management of the same, it:was liable for
nine-fortieths of the expenses, which constituted the debts of
the firm. 69 Ohio St. 160. A decree was entered to that effect,
and the Bank brought the case here.
It is objected at the outset that this court has no jurisdiction
because the specific question was not raised sufficiently upon
the record. But at the trial the Bank objected that under the
statutes of the United States it could not be held liable as a
partner, following the frame of the bill and meeting the ruling
of the court. Then, when the Supreme Court, after discussion
of the statutes, imposed the modified liability and sent the case
back, it objected that under the same statutes it could not be
held liable for any proportion of the debts of the firm, and took
this question on exceptions again to the Supreme Court.. It
showed at every stage its intention to rely- upon the United
States banking laws for immunity, and it would be an excessive
requirement to hold the Bank bound in the first instance to
anticipate the specific and qualified form in which the immunity finally was denied. In addition to the foregoing facts, all
of which appear on the record, the Supreme Court made a certificate part of its record and judgment, to the effect that it
became and was material to consider whether the Bank had
power under Rev. Stat. §§ 5136, 5137, to become liable for the
nine-fortieths as above stated and that the decision was against
the claim of the plaintiff in error. Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S.
212, 223; Cincinnati Packet Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179. Of
course such a claim of immunity under the laws of the United
States, if sufficiently set up, can be brought to this court. CaliSee Meyer v. Richfornia Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362.
mond, 172 U. S. 82.
The question of substantive law presented is not without
difficulty. It is not disposed of by the general proposition that
a national bank may take by way of security property in which
it is not authorized to invest, and may become owner of it by
foreclosure or in satisfaction of a debt. It is not disposed of
even by the decisions that it may acquire stock in a corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

in this way, First National Bank of Charlotte v. National Exchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122, and so subject itself to the liability
of a stockholder for the corporate debts. National Bank v.
Case, 99 U. S. 628; CaliforniaBank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362,
366, 367; First National Bank of Ottawa v. Converse, 200 U. S.
425, 438, a proposition not shaken by Scott v. Deweese, 181 U. S.

202, 218.

For it does not follow that because the interest in

a partnership is represented by a paper certificate in form more
or less resembling a certificate of stock in a corporation and
transferable like it, a. national bank can take the partnership
certificate to the same extent that it could take the stock.
As the Supreme Court of Ohio -assumes such partnerships and
certificates to be valid we assume them to be. Wells v. Wilson,
3 Ohio, 425; Walburn v. Ingilby, 1 Myl. & K. 61, 76; Re The
Mexican & South American Co., 27 Beav. 474, 481; S. C., 4
De G. & J. 320; Philips v. Blatchford, 137 Massachusetts, 510.
We may assume further, in accordance with a favorite speculation of these. days, that philosophically a partnership' and a
corporation illustrate a single principle, and even that the certificate of a share in one represents property in very nearly the
same sense as does a share in the other. In either case the
members could divide the assets after paying the debts. But
from the point of view of the law there is a very important
difference. The corporation is legally distinct from its members, and its debts are not their debts. Therefore, when a
paid-up share in a corporation is taken, no liability is assumed,
apart from statute, but simply a right equal in value to a corresponding share in the assets and good will of the concern
after its debts are paid. If the right is worth something it is
a proper security, and if it is worth nothing no harm is done.
It is true that a statute may add a liability, but when, as usual,
this is limited to the par value of the stock, it has not been
considered to affect the nature of the share so fundamentally
as to prevent a national bank from taking it in pledge, with
qualifications, as it might take land or bonds.
But to take a share by transfer on the books means to be-

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK v. WEHRMANN. 301
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

come a member of the concern. The person who appears on
the books of the corporation as the stockholder is the stock-:
holder as between him and the corporation, and his rights with
regard to th corporate property are incident to his position
as such. National Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628, 631; Pullman
v. Upton, 96 U. S. 328. This does not matter, or matters less,
in the case of a corporation, for the reasons which we have
stated. But when a similar transfer is made of a share in a
partnership it means that the transferee at once becomes a
member of the firm and goes into its business with an unlinlited
personal liability, in short, does precisely what a national bank
has no authority to do. This the Supreme Court of Ohio
rightly held beyond the powers of the Bank. U. S. Rev. Stat.
§§ 5136, 5137. It is true that it has been held that a pledgee
may escape liability if it appears on the certificate and books
that he is only a pledgee. Pauly v. State Loan & Trust Co.,
165 U. S. 606; Robinson v. Southern National Bank, 180 U. S.
295; Rankin v. Fidelity Trust Co., 189 U. S. 242, 249. No
doubt the security might be realized without the pledgee ever
becoming a member of the firm. It is not necessary in this
case to say that shares like the present could not be accepted
as security in any form by a national bank. But such a bank
cannot accept an absolute transfer of them to itself. It recently has been decided that a national bank cannot take stock
in a new speculative corporation, with the common double liability, in satisfaction of a debt. FirstNational Bank of Ottawa,
v. Converse, 200 U. S. 425. A fortiori, it cannot take shares
in a partnership to the same end.
We are of opinion that with the liability as partner all. liability falls. The transfer of the shares to the Bank was not a
direct transfer of a legal interest in the leasehold, which was
in the hands of trustees. It was simply a transfer of a right
to have the property accounted for and to receive a share of any
balance left after paying debts, and the acquisition of this right
was incident solely to membership in the firm. If the mcinbership failed the incidental rights failed with it, and with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

rights the liabilities also disappeared. Becoming a member of
the firm was the condition of both consequences. As the Bank
was not estopped by its dealings to deny that it was a partner,
it was not estopped to deny all liability for partnlership debts.
See California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, 367. It seems
to us unnecessary to add more in order to show that the claim
against the plaintiff in error must be dismissed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE

.MCKENNA dissent.

UNITED STATES v. DIECKERHOFF.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEC
OND CIRCUIT.
No. 228. 'Argued April 17, 1906.-Decided May 14, 1906.

A bond given by an importer to a collector of customs and purporting to
be executed under cover of § 2899, Rev. Stat., conditioned. in double the
value of packages delivered to the importer by the collector and to be
forfeited if such packages are opened without consent of the collector and
in presence of an inspector, or if not returned to collector on his demand
.therefor, is a valid bond, for, although not conditioned in express words
of the statute, it does not run counter thereto and it is within the authority of the co'llector to accept it.
Under such 'a bond the obligation is fixed and the Government is not-required to prove any actual loss or damage but is entitled to recover the
full amount specified in the bond-double the value of the package
ordered to be returned-as a definite sum, to be paid by the importer
for nonfulfillnent of his statutory duty; and this obligation is not affected by anything contained in § 961, Rev. Stat., limiting reco-,cries
on forfeitures to amount due in equity.
Where Congress has provided a specific p~nalty for failing..to comply with
a statutory provision and obligation, it. is not within the province of courts
of equityto mitigate the harshness of the penalty or forfeiture or to grant
* relief running directly counter to the statutory requirements.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

-

