OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

In re LINCOLN, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR

A WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.

No. 21, Original. Submitted April 23, 1906.-Decided May 14, 1906.

Vhere petitioner's term of imprisonment has expired, but under the sentence
he is still subject to confinement until a fine of $100 and costs has been
paid, and nothing in the record shows whether such fine has been collected
on execution as authorized by the sentence, but if not collected or collectible the petitioner can, shortly be discharged on taking the poor debtor's
oath, the case is practically a moot one, upon which the time of this court
shbuld not be spent.
Conceding the full jurisdiction of this court in habeas corpus, and although
the writ has been granted, in view of the special circumstances therein involved, in a case similar in some respects to the one at bar, it is a question in every case whether the exercise of that jurisdiction is appropriate.
The ordinary procedure for correction of errors in criminal cases by writ
of error should be pursued unless special circumstances call for a departure therefrom; and so held in regard to a petition for habeas corpus
of one convicted in a District Court of the Unitdd States for selling liquor
to Indians in Indian country who could and should have proceeded by
writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals.

petitioner was convicted in the District Court for the
District of Nebraska on an indictment charging that he did
"wrongfully and unlawfully introduce into Indian country, to
wit, into and upon the Winnebago Indian Reservation, a reservation set apart for the exclusive use and benefit of certain
tribes of the Winnebago Indians, certain spirituous, vinous,
malt and other intoxicating liquors."
Upon this conviction he was sentenced to pay a fine of $100
and the costs of prosecution and to be imprisoned in the jail
of Douglas County, Nebraska, for the term of sixty days and
until said fine and costs were paid. The imprisonment comlnenced on February 19, 1906. Without pursuing his remedy
by writ of error the petitioner on April 2, 1906, filed in this
court his application for a writ of habea6 corpms, alleging that
the United States has no police power or jurisdiction over the
Winnebago Reservation, and that the law under which the
THE

IIn re LINCOLN.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

indictment was drawn is unconstitutional and void in so far
as it applies to the said Winnebago Reservation, and that the
United States District Court was wholly without jurisdiction
in the premises. The indictment was found under the act of
Congress of January 30, 1897. 29 Stat. 506. April 30, 1906,
the case was submitted on petition, return and a stipulation
of facts.
Mr. Thomas L. Sloan and Mr. Williamson S. Summers for
petitioner.
The Solicitor General for respondent.
MR. ,JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The sixty days named as the term of imprisonment had expired before the case was submitted, and indeed had almost
expired before the application was made for the writ. There
is nothing to show whether the fine and costs have been collected upon execution, as the sentence authorizes. If not so
collected and if they cannot be collected, then, though possibly
still in jail, he can shortly be discharged on taking the poor
debtor's oath. Rev. Stat. § 1042. This section authorizes a
discharge after a confinement of thirty days on account, of the
non~payment of fine and costs.- So that within ninety days
from February 19, the time the sentence took effect, the petitioner Can secure his discharge either by paying the fine and
costs or by taking the poor debtor's oath, as above stated.
In Ex parte Baez, 177 U. S. 378, which was an application
for a writ of habeas corpus, it appeared that before a return to
the writ could be made, or other action taken, the restraint of
which the petitioner complained would terminate, and it was
held that the application for the writ should be denied. Indeed
the case at bar in principle is not unlike Mills v. Green, 159
U. S. 651; New Orleans Flour Inspectors v. Glover, 160 U. S.
170; Kimball v. Kimball, 174 U. S. 158, and Jones v. Montague,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.,

202 U. S.

194 U. S. 147, in each of which intermediate the ruling below
and the time for decision here events had happened which prevented the granting of the relief sought, and the appeals or
writs of error were dismissed on the ground that this court
did not spend its time in deciding a moot case.
While the full jurisdiction of this court in habeas corpus may
be conceded, there is in every case a question whether the exercise of such jurisdiction is appropriate. In Ex parte Royall,
117 U. S.241, Royall, who was held under state process for
trial on an indictment charging an offense against the laws of
-the State, filed his petition in habeas corpus in the Circuit Court
of the United States praying release from that custody. The
Circuit Court refused to order his discharge, and from its ruling
he appealed, and at the same time filed an original petition in
this court. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S.254. The question was
fully considered and it was held that while the Federal courts,
Circuit and Supreme, had jurisdiction in the premises, there
was a discretion whether in any case a writ should be issued,
Mr. Justice Harlan speaking for the court, saying (p. 251):
"That discretion should be exercised in the light of the relations existing, under our system of government, between the
judicial tribunals of the Union and of the States, and in recognition of the fact that the public good requires that those relations be not disturbed by unnecessary conflict between courts
equally bound to guard and protect rights secured by the Constitution. When the petitioner is in custody by state authority for an act done or omitted to be done in pursuance of a
law of the United States, or of an order, process, or d6cree of
a court or judge thereof; or where, being a subject or citizen
of a foreign State, and domiciled therein, he is in custody, under like authority, for an act done or omitted under any alleged
right, title, authority, privilege, protection, or exemption
claimed under the commission, or order, or sanction of any
foreign State, or 'under color thereof, the validity and effect
wh reof depend upon the law of nations; in such and like cases
of urgency, involving the authority and operations of the Gen-

In re LINCOLN.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eral Government, or the obligations of this country to, or its
relations with, foreign nations, the courts of the United States
have frequently interposed by writs of habeas corpus and discharged prisoners who were held in custody under state authority."
And again, after commenting on the relations of state and
national courts (p. 252):
"That these salutary principles may have full operation, and
in harmony with what we suppose was the intention of Congress
in the enactments in question,. this court holds that where a
person is in cuttody, under process from a state court of original jurisdiction, for an alleged offense against the laws of such
State, and it is claimed that he is restrained of his liberty in
violation of the Constitution of the United States, the Circuit.
Court has a discretion whether it will discharge him, upon
habeas corpus, in advance of his trial in the court in which he
is indicted; that discretion, however, to be subordinated to
any special circumstances requiring immediate action. When
the state court shall have, finally acted upon the case, the Circuit Court has still a discretion whether, under all the circumstances then existing, the accused, if convicted, shall be put
to his writ of error from the highest court of the State, or
whether it will proceed, by writ of habeas corpus, summarily
to determine whether the petitioner is restrained of his liberty
in violation of the Constitution of the United States."
The propositions thus laid down have been upheld by repeated decisions of this court. Ex parte Fonda, 117 U. S. 516;
In re Duncan, 139 U. S. 449; In re Wood, 140 U. S. 278; Cook
v. Hart, 146 U. S. 183; In re Frederich, Petitioner, 149 U. S.
70; New York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89; Pepke v. Cronan, 155 U. S.
100; .Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272; Whitten v. Tomlinson,
160 U. S. 231; Kohl v. Lehlback, 160 U. S. 293; fasigi v. Van
De Carr, 166 U. S. 391; In re Eckart, Petitioner, 166 U. S. 481;
Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 IJ. S.
101, 104; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516; Markuson v. Boucher,
175 U. S. 184; Davis v. Burke, 179 U. S. 399; Gusman v. Mar-

'OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

rero, 180 U. S. 81; Minnesota v. Brundage, 180 U. S. 499;
Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 138.
In In re Loney, 134 U. S. 372; In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1;
Ohio v. Thomas, 173 U. S. 276, and Boske v. Comingore, 177
U. S. 459, writs of habeas corpus were sustained, but in each
of these cases the act charged against the petitioner was one
for which he was amenable alone to *the laws of the United
States, or he was exercising some authority under those laws,
and so they all come within the exceptions noted in Ex parte
Royall, supra.
While the same reasons do not apply when the petitioner is
in custody by virtue of the process of a Federal court, yet a
writ bf habeas corpus is not io be made use of as a writ of error
(Crossley v. California, 168 U. S. 640; Whitney, Warder, &c.,
v. Dick, ante, p. 132), the ordinary procedure for the correction of errors in criminal cases is by writ of error, and that
method should be pursued unless there be special circumstances
calling for a departure therefrom. Ex parte Mirzan, 119 U. S.
584; In re Huntington, 137 U. S. 63; In re Lancaster, 137 U. S.
393; In re Chapman, 156 U. S. 211; Riggins v. United •States,
199 U. S. 547. Several of these cases, it is true, were applications for habeas corpus prior to final decisions iri the lower
courts, and the refusal of the writs was based partly, at least,
upon the proposition that the orderly administration of justice would be better subserved by declining to exercise our
jurisdiction until the conclusion of the proceedings below. In
Ex parte Mirzan, however, this court declined to issue a writ
of habeas corpus after a conviction, holding that it might be
issued by the proper Circuit Court, and that application should
be made to that court except in cases where there were some
special circumstances making immediate action by this court
necessary or expedient. In the case at bar if there was any
error in the proceedings of the trial court it could have been
corrected by writ of error from the Court of Appeals, and no
reason is given why that remedy should not have been pursued, except the request of the district judge who decided the,

In re LINCOLN.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

case. Reference is made to a decision of the Court of Appeals
of the Eighth Circuit, In re Boyd, 49 Fed. Rep. 48, but that
only announced the doctrine of some of the cases cited above,
that ordinarily prior to final judgment a writ of habeas corpus
ought not to be issued.
It is true that we issued a writ of habeas corpus in a case in

some respects like the present, Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488,
and it is relied upon by petitioner as authority~for this application, but it was shown in that case that there was a direct
conflict between the state and local Federal courts in the precise point of law involved, each asserting jurisdiction over the
same offense; that the Court of Appeals had already decided
the question adversely to the contention of petitioner, so that
a writ of error from that court would have accomplished nothing; and further, that the matter involved opened up inquiry
into questions of great significance affecting the respective
jurisdictions of the Nation and the States over large numbers
of Indians. There were special reasons, therefore, for our issuing a writ of habeas corpus and investigating the matter in that
case. But it does not follow from the action then taken that
it is necessary or proper for this court to issue a habeas corpus
in every case involving the question of the legality of a sale
of liquor to Indians or the bringing of liquor into the Indian
country. It is enough that the cases be disposed of in the orderly and customary mode of procedure. It may be assumed
that the trial courts will follow the rulings of this courit, and
if there be in any case a departure therefrom the proper appellate court will correct the error. To permit every petty criminal case to be brought directly to this court upon habeas corpus, on the ground of an alleged misconception or disregard
of our decisions, would be a. grievous misuse of our time, which
should be devoted to a consideration of the more important'
legal and constitutional questions which are constantly arising
and calling for our determination.
For these reasons
The petition for a writ of habeas corpus is denied.

