OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
202 U. S..

Syllabus.

persons, more or less, all Eastern Emigrant Cherokees, residing for the most part in Cherokee, Graham, Swain, Clay, and
Macon Counties, North Carolina, some in north Georgia,
northern Alabama, and eastern Tennessee, together with about
1,500 emigrants, portions of their various families, gone West,
nearly all of whom have been recognized as citizens and who.
compose a large portion of those persons heretofore known as
the Eastern band of Cherokee Indians of North Carolina, And
others of the same class, whose names or those of whose ancestors may be found on the rolls of 1835 and 1838," asked
that one-fourth part of the whole sum recovered be set apart
for them as their distributive share. But we think they are
only entitled to receive the per capita payment with the
Eastern Cherokees, and shofild obtain that payment accordingly.
The result is, that with the modification of the second subdivision of the fourth paragraph of the decree, relating to
the $1,111,284.70 with interest, above indicated, the decree
of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.

WHITNEY, WARDEN OF THE IDAHO STATE PENITENTIARY v. DICK.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEAL

FROM

AND

CERTIORARI

TO

THE

APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
Nos. 494, 557.

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

CIRCUIT.

Submitted April 3, 1906.-Decided April 30, 1906.

Final orders of the Circuit Court of Appeals may be brought ,to this court,
of right, only where the matter in dispute exceeds $1,000, and there is
no appeal where, as in a habeas corpus proceeding, no amount is involved.
The Circuit Court of Appeals is a court created by statute and is not endowed with any original jurisdiction; and as there is no language in the
statute which can be construed into a grant of power to issue a writ of
habeas corpus, unless it be one in aid of a jurisdiction already existing,

WHITNEY v. DICK.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that court is not authorized to issue original and independent writs of
habeas corpus.
Although the Circuit Court of Appeals may possess the power, which has
been exercised by this Court, to issue independent writs of certiorari, and
although it may sometimes be proper in special cases to end litigation by
summary process, yet as a rule the ordinary procedure for attacking a
judgment in a criminal case is by writ of error, and, where the only question is whether-the Federal courts have jurisdiction to punish the crime
charged, in this case selling of liquor in the Indian country, and there is
no necessity of prompt action to uphold National authority the writ of
certiorari should not have been issued.

ON May 16, 1905, the respondent in these two cases was
convicted in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Idaho, Northern Division, on the charge of unlawfully and feloniously introducing intoxicating liquors into
the Nez Perce Indian Reservation, -ad sentenced to pay a
fine of $100 and be confined in the penitentiary for the term
of one year and ten days. On July 21, 1905, a bill of exceptions was duly preparedand signed. Thereafter, without suing
out a writ of error, respondent applied to the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Ninth Circuit for writs of habeas corpus and of
certiorari. It does not affirmatively appear that any writ of
habeas corpus was issued, the record in the Court of Appeals
reciting:
"The petition in the above-entitled matter for a writ of
habeas corpus and a writ of certiorari having been duly submitted to the court, and the petition for a writ of certiorari
therein having been granted and a writ of certiorari having
been issued, directed to the honorable the United States District
Court for the District of Idaho, and requiring the said District
Court to certify to this court a transcript of the record and
proceedings in the suit therein of the United States v. George
Dick, and the return to the said writ of certiorari having been
filed, the matter was duly argued and submitted to the court
for consideration and decision upon the said return and upon
the briefs of counsel for the respective parties.
"On corlsideration whereof, and the court being of the opinion that the United States District Court for the District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Respondent.

202 U. S.

Idaho did not have jurisdiction of the offense charged in the
indictment found against the petitioner in the suit of the
United States v. George Dick, it is ordered and adjudged that
die petitioner, George Dick, be discharged from imprisonment."
From this order of discharge, Whitney, as Warden of the
Idadho state penitentiary (the respondent named in the petition
for a habeas corpus), perfected an appeal to this court, and that
appeal is case No. 494. Subsequently he applied for a writ
of, certiorari, to review the decision of the Court of Appeals,
which was allowed, and that is case No. 557. The record in
case No. 494 was directed to stand as the return to the writ of
certiorari. -Both the appeal and the certiorari were taken by
the Warden, appearing by the United States Attorney for the
District of Idaho, under the direction of the Attorney General
of the United States.
The Solicitor General for appellant and petitioner:
The jurisdiction of' the Federal courts to issue writs of
habeas corpus, except so far as the original jurisdiction of this
court is concerned, is' purely statutory. Ex parte Bollmann,
4 Cranch, 93, 94; Ex parte Dorr, 3 How. 104, 105; Ex parle
Parks, 93 U. S. 22; Ex parte Hung Hang, 108 U. S. 552; In re
Burrus, 136 U. S. 586, 589 et seq.; Ex parte Caldwell, 138 Fed.
Rep. 487; 2 Story on Const. § 1341; Cooley's Const. Lim.,
*345, *349.
The several statutes on the subject have been embodied
in ch. 13, Rev. Stat. §§ 751, 752: Judiciary Act of 1891, 26
Stat. 826; § 716, Rev. Stat. The language of the act of 1891
is restrictive and § 716, Rev. Stat., cannot be regarded as authorizing the Circuit Court of Appehis to issue writs of habeas
corpus: See 2 Foster's Fed. Prac. § 366; In re Boles, 48
Fed. Rep. 75; In re Nevitt, 117 Fed. Rep. 448.
At any rate the writ was improvidently issued. Riggins v.
United States, 199 U. S. 547.
Mr. Frank E. Fogg for appellee and respondent:
The legislation embraced in §§ 716, 751, 752, 753, [ v. Stat.,

WHITNEY v. DICK.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is comprehensive and brings the writ of habeas corpus within
the jurisdiction of every court and every judge of the United
States. Ex parte McCurdle, 6 Wall. 318; Ex parte Caldwell,
138 Fed. Rep. 488. See also In re Helf, 197 U. S. 488; In re
Levitt, 117 Fed. Rep. 448; In re Burkirk, 72 Fed. Rep. 14.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

The first question is, of course, one of jurisdiction. Final
orders of the Circuit Court of Appeals may of right be brought
to this court only where the matter in dispute exceeds in value
one thousand dollars. As there is no amount in controversy,
the appeal was unauthorized and must be dismissed. Lau Ow
Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 58. But by certiorari the
judgment of the Court of Appeals is properly before us. In re
Chetwood, Petitioner, 165 U. S. 443, 462.
Had the Court of Appeals jurisdiction to issue separately
either a writ of certiorari, or one of habeas corpus, or the two
jointly? And first, as to the writ of habeas corpus. Undoubtedly that writ is one of high privilege. We are not confronted with the case of a failure by Congress to make anyprovision for it. Under section 751, Rev. Stat., the Supreme,
Circuit and" District Courts may issue. writs of habeas corpus,
and by section 752 like power is given to the several justices
and judges of said courts for the purpose of inquiry into the
cause of restraint of liberty. Thus adequate provision has
been made for securing to everyone entitled thereto the writ
of habeas corpus. So when Congress passes an act establishing
a new court there is no constraining presumption that it must
intend to give to that court jurisdiction in habeas corpus. The
Court of Appeals act (26 Stat. 826) does not in. terms grant
authority to issue the writ. It is silent on the subject, and
in order to sustain its jurisdiction we must write something
into the statute which Congress itself lid not put there. In
this we are speaking of the writ of habeas corpus as an original

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

and independent proceeding, for by section 12 of the act
"The Circuit Court of Appeals shall have the powers specified _
in section 716 of the Revised Statutes of the United States."
Section 716 provides that" The Supreme Court and the Circuit
and District Courts shall have power to issue writs of scire
facias. They shall also have power to issue all writs not
specifically provided for by statute, which may -be necessary
for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable
to the usages and principles of law." Cases may arise in
which the writ of habeas corpus is necessary to the complete
exercise of the appellate jurisdiction vested in the Circuit Court
of Appeals. But it is unnecessary to speculate under What
circumstances such an exigency may exist, for the writ asked
'for here was an independent and original proceeding challenging in tow the validity of a judgment rendered in another court.
There waq no prodeqding of an appellate character pending
in the Couit of Appeals for the complete exercise of jurisdiction in which any auxiliary writ of habeas corpus was requisite.
-Appellate proceedings are, generally speaking, initiated by
appeals and writs of error, and for these the Court of Appeals
act specifically provides. The writ of habeas corpus is not the
equivalent of an appeal or writ of error. It is not a proceeding to correct errors which may have _c-curred in the trial of
the case below. It. is an a tacktirectly upon the validity of
the judgment, and, as s been frequently said, it cannot be
transformed into a it of error. It is doubtless true that if
the language of thA Court of Appeals act was fairly susceptible
of two construci ons, one granting and the other omitting to
grant power t6 issue a writ of habeas corpus, the great importan'e of fthe writ might justify a construction upholding
the grant. This is indicated by the ruling in Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75. The fourteenth section of the original
judiciary act contained this language- 'That
all the beforementioned courts of the United States shall have power to
issue writs of. scire facias, habeas corpus, and all other writs,
not specially provided for by statute, which may be necessary

WHITNEY v. DICK.
202 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, -and agreeable
to the principles and usages of law." And the question presented was whether the grant of power to issue a writ of habeas
corpus was an absolute and independent grant or one simply
authorizifg the issue of the writ when necessary for and in
aid of the exercise of a jurisdiction already otherwise obtained,
and it was held to be an absolute and independent grant, the
conclusion being placed by Chief Justice Marshall, delivering
the opinion of the court, partly on the grammatical construction
of the section and partly on the significance and importance of
the-writ itself. But in the Court of Appeals act there is no
mention of habeas corpus, ,no language which can be tortured
into a grant of power to issue the writ, except in cases where
it may be necessary for the exercise of a jurisdiction already
existing.
It will be borne in mind that the Circuit Court.of Appeals,
which is a court created by statute, Kentucky v. Powers, 201
U. S. 1, 24, isnot in terms endowed with any original jurisdiction. It is only a court of appeal. Section 2 of the act says
that it "shall be a court of record with appellate jurisdiction,
as is hereafter limited and established.!' Section 6 provides
that it "shall exercise appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal or by writ of error final decision in the District Court and
the existing Circuit Courts in all cases," etc. By section 10
"whenever on appeal or writ of rror or otherwise a case coining from a Circuit Court of Appeals shall be reviewed and determined in the Supreme Court the cause shall be remanded
by the Supreme .Cpurt to the proper District or Circuit Court
for further proceedings in pursuance of such determination."
Sections 4, 13 and 15 name the courts Whose judgments may
be reviewed in. the Courts of Appeals. Obviously the Courts
of Appeals are simply given appellate jurisdiction over certain
specified courts. It follows that they are not authorized to
issue original and independent writs of habeas corpus.
Have tley jurisdiction to issue writs of certiorari? As we
have seen, the procedure prescribed by the statute for bring-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

ing to the Courts of Appeals those final decisions of courts
which they are authorized to review is appeal or writ of error,
and that in this country is the ordinary method by which
review is obtained in an appellate court. Especially is this
true of. the Federal procedure, the only instance in which
certiorari is named as the writ for the removal of.cases from
a lower to a higher court being in the authority given to this
court to bring up cases from the Courts of Appeals by certiorari. Inasmuch as appeal and writ of error are specifically_
prescribed in tile Court of Appeals act as the process to bring
up final decisions to that court for review, the authority to
issue a certiorari must be found in the grant of power "to issue
all writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may be
necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdiction, and
agreeable to the usages and principles of law." That certiorari may be used to bring up portions of a record not origi-.
nally returned to a Court of Appeals is undoubted, for it may
be necessary for the complete exercise of its alpellate jurisdiction, but not otherwise', for every case of which that court
may take jurisdiction can be carried up by appeal or writ of
error. Of course, if in the case at bar the writ of habeas corpus
was not or could not rightfully be issued, then certiorari cannot be sustained as auxiliary process, but must stand or fall
as an jndependent proceeding.
It may be said that the power of this court to issue original
and independent writs of certiorari has been upheld under the
authority given by section 716.* A reference to some of the
decisions may be well. See generally Ex parle Vallandigham,
1 Wall. 243, and cases cited in the opinion; Ei'oiny v. City of
St. Louis, 5 Wall. 413; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163.
Fcwler v. Lindsey, 3 Dall. 411, was the case of an application before judgment to remove certain actions from the
Circuit Court to this court on the ground that a State _was the
real party in interest, and it was said by Mr. Justice Washington (p. 413):
"But as it is proposed to remove the suits under considera-

WvH.T
202 U. S.

Y

DICK.

139

Opinion of the Court.

tion from the Circuit Court into this court, by writs of certiorari, I ask whether it has ever happened, in the course of
judicial proceedings, that a certiorari has issued from a superior, to an inferior, court, to remove a cause merely from a
defect of jurisdiction? I do not know that such a case could
ever occur."
In American Construction Company v. Jacksonville Railway,
148 U. S. 372, where an application was made for mandamus
and certiorari, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, after
quoting section 716, said (p. 380):
"Under this provision, the court might doubtless issue writs
of certiorari, in proper cases. But the writ of certiorari has
not been issued as freely by this court as by the Court of
Queen's Bench in England. Ex parte Vallandigham, 1 Wall.
243, 249. It was never issued to bring up from an inferior
court of the United States for trial a case within the exclusive
jurisdiction of a higher court. Fowler v. Lindsey, 3 Dall. 411,
413; Patterson v. United States, 2 Wheat. 221, 225, 226; Ex
parite Hitz, 111 U. S. 766, It was used by this court as an
auxiliary process only, to supply imperfections in the record
of a case already before it; and not, like a writ of error, to
review the judgment of an inferior court. Barton v. Petit,
7 Cranch, 288; Ex parte Gordon, 1 Black, 503; United States
v. Adams, 9 Wall. 661; United States v. Young, 94 U. S. 258;
Luxton v. North River Bridge, 14? U. S. 337, 341."
In In re Chetwood, Petitioner, 165 U. S. 443, Mr. Chief .Justice Fuller said (pp. 461, 462):
"By section 14 of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789,
1 Stat. 81, c. 20, carried forward as section 716 of the Revised Statutes, this court an4the Circuit and District Courts
of the United States were empowered by Congress 'to issue
all writs, not specifically provided for by statute, which may
be agreeable to the usages and principles of law;' and under
this provision, we can undoubtedly issue writs of certiorari
in all proper cases.. American Construction Company v. Jacksonvillc Railway, 148 U. S. 372, 380. And although, as ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court..

202 U. S.

served in that case, this writ has not been issued as freely by
this court as by the Court of Queen's Bench in England, and,
prior to the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, had been
ordinarily used as an auxiliary process merely, yet, whenever
the circumstances imperatively demand that form of interposition the writ may be allowed, as at common law, to correct excesses of jurisdiction and in furtherance of justice.
Tidd's Prac., *398; Bac. Ab., Certiorari."
And in In re Tampa Suburban Railroad Company, 168
U. S. 583, it was held that "a- writ of certiorari, such as is
this case, will be refused when there is a plain and
asked for in.
adequate remedy, by appeal or otherwise."
This court has never decided that certiorari was to be resorted to in place of a writ of error whenever it suited the convenience of parties. There must be "circumstances imperatively demanding" a departure from the ordinary remedy by
writ of error. or appeal. In the case at bar the indictment
charges the introduction of liquor into the Indian country.
It is not questioned that this is a criinal offense under the
laws of the United States, but it is contended that the place
of the alleged offense was not Indian country. The trial court
ruled that it was. This ruling was excel)ted to, a bill of
exceptions prepared and signe(d and the case put in proper
condition for reviov in the Court of Appeals on writ of error.
There was no necessity for a certiorari.
Apparently the thought of petitioner was to get rid of the
case at once and entirely. It was not a new trial or any mere
correction of errors, but a termination of the litigation which

induced this proceeding rather than a writ of error. It was
a short wav of disposing of the entire matter-the same reason
that has so often p)rompted writs of habeas corpus. We have
repeatedly held against such procedure. While undoubtedly
the power exists, and it may sometimes be proper for a court.
to put an end to the litigation by some short summary process,
yet as a rule the orderly way is to proceed by writ of error.
The latest expression of the views of this court is to be found

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. STAAKE.
202 U. S.

Syllabus.

in Riggins v. United Slates, 199 U. S. 547. To that and the
cases cited in the opiiron we refer, saying that, in the case at
bar there is no special reason why the ordimary procedure
should not obtain. It will be borne in nind that thie act with
which the. respondent was charged was not done under or by
virtue of' the authority of the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and therefore his prompt release is not necessary in orler to uphold thle national authority. It was not
an act to be commended, and the only question is wliether its
punishment was within the jurisdiction of the Federal courts,
ad that question, under the circumstances, should have been
settled in the ordinary way.
For these reasons the decision of the Court of Appeals is
reversed, and the Cse is remanded with instructions to quash
the writ of certiorariand dismi the petition.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BALTIMORE v. STAAKE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 213.

Argued March 15, 16, 1906-Decided April 30, Iv(1o

.

Illcr § 67J of the hanikriptcy law of I~t' at tachments obtained within
four months of tiling the
ietiti
on oil property which in the absence of
the attachments would pass to other persons, and to which the bankrupt has only a bare legal title, may he preserved for the general benelit
of the estate, and wlatever the trustee realizes thcreon may bie distrilmited
among the body'of thecreditors. The lien is valid, but it,
lose its preferenltial character ill favor of the attaching creditor by the institution of
the bankruptcy proceedings.
The extent to which the.bankruptcy ourt shall recognize the rights obtained by-creditors upon property at tahed as property of the bankrupt, but which has.been conveyed. by unrecorded contract, and the
extent to which liens obtained by prior judicial proceedings shall be
recognized are wholly within the discretion of Congress.

