ORTEGA v. LARA.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

land in question, or claimed title under and not adverse to that
of plaintiff. See also Boston &c. Mining Company v.. Montana
Ore Company, 188 U. S. 632, 643. There are the same disclaimers here as in the Crystal Springs case, but from what we
have heretofore said it will be seen that we are of opinion, in.
any aspect, that the bill was properly dismissed, and that the
decree to that effect must be
Affirmed.

ORTEGA v. LARA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE, UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 230. Argued April 17, 18, 1906.-Decided May 21, 1906.

Where jurisdiction of a writ of error to review a judgment of the District
Court of the United States for Porto Rico depends on amount, the judgment itself is the test and it is insufficient if for $5,000 and costs although
it carries interest.
Whenever political and legislative power over territory are transferred from
another nation to the United States, the laws of the country transferred,
unless inconsistent with provisions of the Constitution and laws of the
United States applicable thereto,. continue in force until abrogated or
changed by or under the authority of the United States-and this general rule of law was applied to Porto Rico by the Foraker Act of April 12,
1900, and that act also provided how such laws should be altered or repealed by the legislature of Porto Rico.
Article 44 of the Code of Porto Rico limiting recovery in cases of breach of
promise to the expenses of injured party incurred by reason of the promised marriage was a law of Porto Rico and not of the United States and
was subject to repeal by the legislature of Porto Rico, and, having been
so repealed prior to the breach alleged in this case, a writ of error from
this court cannot be maintained on the ground that the ruling of the
District Court that the recovery was not limited to such expenses was
a denial of a right claimed tinder a law of the United States.
The District Court of the United States for Porto Rico has jurisdiction
when the parties on both sides are subjects of the King of Spain.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

202 U. S.

Mr. George H. Lamar, with whom Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
While the amount involved is not sufficient to give the court
jurisdiction, there is a bona fide question based on the Federal
law involved. Sec. 44 of the Civil Code was adopted by the Foraker Act and became in effect an act of Congress. United States
v. Simms, 1 Cr. 252; Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 524;
McCracken v. Hayward,2 How. 608; Glboe Refining Co. v. Landa
Cotton Oil Co., 190 U. S. 540. Sec. 44 of the Civil Code
was applicable to the rights of the parties under the contract
sued on. The subsequent legislation could not affect the defendant's defenses. Coghlan v. South Carolina,142 U. S. 101; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102; Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How.
311; Pritchardv. Norton, 106 U. S. 124; United States v. Price,
9 How. 83; New Orleans &c. Co. v. Louisiana, 157 U. S. 219.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John Spalding
Flannery and Mr. T. D. Mott, Jr., were on the brief, for defendant in error:
This court is without jurisdiction to review the judgment.
The matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, does not exceed $5,000.
During the trial neither the Constitution of the United States
nor a treaty thereof nor an act of Congress was brought in
question and the right claimed thereunder denied.
Apart from so-called Federal questions in an action for
money, the amount of the judgment against the defendant is
the measure of the jurisdiction of this court, and it cannot be
maintained unless the judgment exceeds $5,000. Mayor v.
Evans, 97 U. S. 1. Neither interest nor costs can enter into the
computation. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Rogers, 93 U. S. 565.
Section 44 was repealed by the adoption of the new Code of
Porto Rico before the breach of the alleged contract. The
parties to a- contract have no vested right in the existing general laws of the State which can preclude their amendment or
repeal. While it is true that there may be laws which, when
accepted by an individual, constitute in themselves binding

ORTEGA v. LARA.
.202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contracts which probably could not be altered by subsequent
legislation, it is settled in the United States that the laws governing the institution of marriage and the dissolution of the
condition are not of this class. Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S. 1.90.
Changes in the laws of evidence, of perjuries. and registrations, and those which concern remedies, frauds and limitations of actions, while they may affect the validity, construction
or discharge of contracts, are not regarded as necessarily affecting their obligation. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122,
200; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed., 406 et seq.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Angela Lara brought her action against Antonio Ortega in
the District Court of the United States for the District of Porto
Rico to recover damages alleged to have been suffered by her
by reason of his breach of promise of marriage. The date of
th6 promise was laid as June 1, 1900, and of the breach in 1904.
Both parties were subjects of Spain and residents of Porto Rico.
Defendant demurred to the complaint, and the demurrer having been overruled, pleaded the general issue. The cause was
tried by a jury and resulted in a verdict for plaintiff in the sum
of $5,000, interest and costs, on which judgment was entered.
Defendant moved in arrest and for judgment non obstante veredicto, which motions were overruled, and this writ of error was
thereupon allowed.
At the conclusion of the evidence defendant requested the
court to instruct the jury to find-in his favor, on the grounds,
among others, that the court had no jurisdiction of a suit where
both plaintiff and defendant were subjects of the King of Spain,
and because the cause of action arose in June, 1900, "at which
time there was no provision in the laws in force in Porto Rico
for a suit of the character set out in plaintiff's declaration, the
only basis for the said suit being the provisions of article 44
of the Civil Code then in force." Similar reasons were assigned
in support of the motions in arrest and non obstante.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

1. The judgment was for $5,000 and costs. It carried interest, but it is the amount of the judgment that furnishes the
test of our jurisdiction, and it is conceded that that is insufficient in this instance. But plaintiff in error contends that
the refusal of the court below to limit the right of recovery by
the terms of article 44 of the former Civil Code of Porto Rico
amounted to the denial of a right claimed under a statute of
the United States, and that jurisdiction may be maintained on
that ground. Act March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, c. 355, §§ 1 and
2; act April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, c. 191, § 35.
The treaty ceding Porto Rico to the United States was ratified by the Senate, February 6, 1899; Congress passed an act
to carry out its obligations March 3, 1899; and the ratifications
were exchanged and the treaty proclaimed April 11, 1899.
Then followed the act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, c. 191.
At that date article 44 of the Civil Code of Porto Rico, relating
to breaches of promise of marriage, was in force, and provided
that under certain conditions "the person who refuses to marry,
without just cause, shall be obliged to indemnify the other party
for the expenses which he or she may have incurred by reason
of the promised marriage."
By the general rule of public law, recognized by the United
States, whenever political jurisdiction and legislative power
over territory are transferred from one nation to another, the
laws of the country transferred, intended for the protection of
private rights, continue in force until abrogated or changed by
the new government. Of course, in case of cession to the United States, laws of the ceded country iiuconsistent with the Con-stitution and laws of the United States so fai. as applicable
would cease to be of obligatory force; but otherwise the municipal laws of the acquired country continue.
Nevertheless, and apparently largely out of abundant caution, the eighth section of the act of April 12, 1900, provided:
"That the laws and ordinances of Porto Rico now in force shall
continue in full force and effect, except as altered, amended, or
modified hereinafter, or as altered or modified by military or-

ORTEGA v. LARA.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ders and decrees in force when this act shall take effect, and so
far as the same are not inconsistent or in-conflict with the statutory laws of the United States not locally inapplicable, or the
provisions hereof, until, altered, amended, or repealed by the
legislative authority hereinafter provided for Porto Rico or by
act of Congress of the United States;
"
.In 1902 the legislature of Porto Rico enacted a new Civil
Code, which went into effect July 1 of that year, and this repealed article 44 of the prior Civil Code, and carried forward
several articles bearing upon the same subject.
It will be remembered that the alleged promise was in 1900
and the alleged breach in 1904. And now the argument is, that
by reason of § 8 of the act of April 12, 1900, commonly called
the "Foraker Act,." article 44 became a law of the United States
by adoption, and that, therefore, the ruling of the court below
that recovery was not limited to expenses wasequivalent to the
denial of a right claimed under a law of the United States.
We do not agree with this view. Article 44 was a law of
Porto Rico on April 12, 1900, and the operation of the Foraker
Act was to define how it might be amended or repealed.
It was repealed by the Porto Rican legislature before the
alleged breach .of promise. If the District Court erred in declining on any ground to apply it as a limitation, the error cannot be corrected on this appeal, because the appeal does not lie.
The alleged Federal question had no existence in substance.
The laws of Porto Rico remained the laws of Porto Rico except
as indicated in section 8 of the Foraker Act, which section did
not make all the laws of Porto Rico acts of Congress.
We cannot perceive that "the Constitution of the United
States, or a treaty thereof, or an act of Congress" was brought
in question or a right claimed thereunder denied, within section 35 of the Foraker Act, or that "the validity of a treaty or
statute of or an authority exercised under the United States"
was drawn in question within § 2 of the act of March 3, 1885.
2. By section 3 of the act of March 2, 1901, 31. Stat. 953,
c. 812, it was provided "that the jurisdiction of the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

202 U. S

Court of the United States for Porto Rico in civil cases shah,
in addition to that conferred by the act of April twelfth, nineteen hundred, extend to and embrace controversies where the
parties, or either of them, are citizens of the United States, or
citizens or subjects of a foreign State or States."
The jurisdiction of the District Court,. when the parties on
both sides were the subjects of the King of Spain, has several
times been sustained by this court, and we do not feel required
in this case to make any other ruling.
Writ of error dismissed.

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 539.

Argued April 3, 4, 1906.-Decided May 21, 1906.

Congress has power to make it an offense against the United States for a
Senator or Representative, after his election and during his continuance
in office, to agree to receive, or to receive, compensation for services before
a Department of the Government, in relation to matters in which the
United States is directly or indirectly interested, and § 1782, Rev. Stat.,
is not repjugnant to the Constitution as interfering, nor does it by its
necessary operation, interfere with the legitimate authority of the House
of Congress over their respective members.
Including ini the sen tence of a Senator convicted of an offense inder § 1782,
R1ev. Stat., that he is rendered forever thereafter incapalble of holding any
office of trust or emolument of office under the Covernment of the United
States is simply a recital of the effct of the conviction, and the conviction does not operate ipso lacre to vacate his seat or compel the Senate
to expel him or to regard him as expelled.
While the Senate, as a bratch of the Legislative Il)epartment, owes its existcc to the Const,itutio n and passes laws that concern the entire country,
its members are choseti by state legislatures and cannot properly be sid
to hold their places n ledrthe Goveriment nf the United States.
The UJited States is interested, either direct,ly or indirectly within the
meaning of § 1782, Rev. Stat., in protecting its mails and postal facilities
from improper and illegal use and in enforcing statutes regulating such
use.

Where the indictment clearly discloses all the elements essential to the
commission of the offense charged, and the avernients are sufficient in

