BUSH v. ELLIOTT.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

BUSH v. ELLIOTT.
BUSH v. ELLIOTT CAR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
Nos. 245, 246.

Argued April 24, 25, 1906.-Decided May 21, 1906.

Where by reason of the amount involved and the diverse citizenship existiqg the bankrupt might have sued the defendant in the Circuit Court of
the United States, independently of the .bankruptcy proceedings, under
ยง 23 of the act of 1898 that right is preserved to the trustee, and the
citizenship of the latter is wholly immaterial to the jurisdiction of the
court in such a case.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James H. Beal and Mr. George D. Lancaster, with whom
was Mr. John P. Tillman on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Amos E. Goodhue for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were heard together and concern the same question upon practically the same facts. They involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States to entertain
a suit to recover upon an alleged cause of action for moneys
due the bankrupt at and prior to the adjudication in bankruptcy, where one of the trustees in bankruptcy is a citizen of
the same State with the defendant, and the bankrupt a citizen
of another State.
The suits were brought by the plaintiffs as trustees in bankruptcy of the Southern Car and Foundry Company, a corporation organized under the laws of New Jersey and a citizen of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S,

that State, against the Elliott Car Company, a corporation and
a citizen of the State of Alabama, and against J. M. Elliott, Jr.,
,acitizen of the same State. They were to recover certain sums
of money alleged to have b~en lent by the bankrupt, for goods
sold and delivered to' the defendants, and upon an account
.:,-stated and for money paid for them by the bankrupt. In
both cases motions to dismiss were filed upon the ground that
the Circuit Court of the United States had no jurisdiction because Thomas G. Bush, one of the trustees in bankruptcy, is
And was at the time of the beginning of the suit a citizen of the
State of Alabama, the same State of which the defendants were
citizens, and the defendants had not consented to be sued in
the Circuit Court of the United States in which the action was
brought. 'The Circuit Court held that it had no jurisdiction
and dismissed the suit.
The correctness of the decision of the court below depends
upon the construction of section 23 of the Bankruptcy Act of
.1898. This section, entitled "Jurisdiction of the United
States and State Courts," prior to the amendment of February.5,. 1903, read as follows: "a. The United States Circuit
Courts 'shall have jurisdiction of all controversies at law and
in equity, as distinguished from proceedings in bankruptcy,
between trustees as such and adverse claimants concerning the
property acquired or claimed by the trustees, .in the same
manner and to the same extent only as though bankruptcy
proceedings had not been instituted and such controversies had
been between the bankrupts and such adverse claimants.
6. Suits by the trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted in
the courts wherd the bankrupt, whose estate is being administered by such trustee, might have brought or prosecuted them
if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless
by consent of the proposed defendant!' By the amendment
of February 5, 1903, the following words were added to clause b:
"except suits for the recovery of property under section sixty,
subdivision b,and section sixty-seven" subdivision e." The
excepted suits, for the recovery of property, covered by the

BUSH v. ELLIOTT.
202 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

amendment of 1903, pertain to actions to recover property
conveyed by the bankrupt in fraud of the act, and do not concern actions of the character of those now under consideration.
Both sides cite and rely upon the case of Bardes v. Hawarden
Bank, 178 U. S. 524, in which case it was held that a District
Court of the United States had no jurisdiction of an action
brought by the trustee to set aside an alleged fraudulent transfer made by the bankrupt within four months before the pro-,
ceedings in bankruptcy. That case pertained to an action to
set aside a fraudulent conveyance of property which had not
come into the control of the bankruptcy court. In later cases
it has been held that the decision did not extend to cases
wherein the bankrupt court had acquired jurisdiction over the
subject matter of the property as that of the bankrupt, as to
which the bankrupt courts have been held to have jurisdiction
under the power conferred in subdivision seven, section two,
of the act. White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Bryan v. Burnheimer, 181 U. S. 188, in which case the opinion was given by
Mr. Justice Gray, who also delivered the opinion in the Bardes
case, and Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539.
While the Bardes case involved only the jurisdiction of the
District Court, we think the principles announced in the opinion of Mr. Justice Gray in that case, when applied to the one
now under consideration, are decisive in favor of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to entertain these suits. The
elaborate consideration of the history of section 23 of the
present Bankruptcy Act, given in the Bardes case, renders it
unnecessary to do more than epitomize from the opinion so
much thereof as is necessary to an understanding of the question now made-as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The Bankruptcy Act of 1898, in respect to the matters now
under consideratio*n, was a radical departure from the act of
1867, in the evident purpose of Congress to limit the jurisdiction of the United States courts in respect to controversies
which did not come simply within the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts as bankruptcy courts, and to preserve, to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court..

202 U. S.

greater extent than the former act, the jurisdiction of the
state courts over actions which were not distinctly matters
and proceedings in bankruptcy. Under the act of 1867 the
jurisdiction of District and Circuit Courts of the
United States
was concurrent with the state courts of suits in law or in equity
brought by or against the assignee in reference to property of
the bankrupt or to claims alleged to be due from or to him.
Lathrop v. Drake, 91 U. S. 516; Bardes v. Hawarden Bank,
178 U. S. 531, 532. The intention of Congress to prevent actions not strictly proceedings in bankruptcy from coming
within the jurisdiction of the United States courts, except in
certain cases, was enacted into law in the section of the statute
now under consideration. Of clause a, Mr. Justice Gray,
speaking for the court in the Bardes case, said:
"The first clause provides that 'the United States Circuit
Courts shall have jurisdiction of all controversies at law and
in equity, as distinguished from proceedings in bankruptcy'
(thus clearly recognizing the essential difference between proceedings in bankruptcy, on the one hand,. and suits at law or
in equity on the other), 'between trustees as such and adverse
claimants, concerning the property acquired or claimed by
the trustees,' restricting jurisdiction, however, by the further
words, 'in the same manner and to the same. extent only as
though bankruptcy proceedings had not been instituted and
such controversies had been between the bankrupt and such
adverse claimants.' This clause, while relating to the Circuit
Courts only, and not to the District Courts of the. United
States, indicates the intention of Congress that the ascertainment, as between the trustee in bankruptcy and a stranger
to the bankruptcy proceedings, of the question whether certain
property claimed by the trustee does or does not form part of
the estate to be administered in bankruptcy, shall not be
brought within the jurisdiction of the national courts solely
because the rights of the bankrupt and of his creditors have
been transferred to the trustee in bankruptcy."
Clause a thus construed gives jurisdiction to such a con-

BUSH v. ELLIOTT.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trovergy as the present one, for the jurisdiction is not attempted to be enlarged because of a title in the trustee derived
under the bankruptcy proceedings, which it was the purpose
of this, clause to prevent. Loveland on Bankruptcy, 2d ed.,
105.

The suit concerns the right to recover a money debt which
is property, Pirie v. Chicago Title and Trust Co., 182 U. S.
438, and, in the sense of the law, is with an adverse claimant
"concerning property acquired or claimed by the trustee,"
and is a controversy of which the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, as between the bankrupt and the claimant, but for the
bankruptcy proceedings.
The act of 1841 (sec. 8 ) gave the Circuit Court concurrent
jurisdiction with the District Court of suits at law and in
equity "which may and shall be brought by the assignee
against any person or persons claiming an adverse interest, or
by such persons against such assignees touching any property
or rights of property of the bankrupt, transferable to or vested
in such assignee." It was held that the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction to recover a debt due the bankrupt at the suit of
the assignee, and that the debtor was a party claiming an adverse interest within the sense of the act. Mitchell v. Great
Works Milling Company, 2 Story, 648; Pritchard v. Chandler,
-2 Curtis, 488. While the phraseology of the present act is
somewhat different, its provisions come to practically the same
thing in this respect.
Of clause b, in the Bardes case, it was said:
"But the second clause applied both to the District Courts,
and to the Circuit Courts of the United States, as well as to
the state courts. This appears, not only by the clear words
of the title of the section, but also by the use, in this clause,
of the general words 'the courts,' as contrasted with the specific
words' 'the United States Circuit Courts,' in the first and in
the third clauses.
"The second clause positively directs that 'suits by the
trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted in the courts where
VOL. ccii-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the bankrupt, whose estate is being administered by such
trustee, might -have brought or prosecuted them if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless by consent of the proposed defendant.'
"Had there been no bankruptcy proceedings, the bankrupt
might have brought suit in any state court of competent jurisdiction; or, if there was a sufficient jurisdictional amount, and
the requisite diversity of citizenship existed, or the case arose
under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States,
he could have brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States. Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866; 25 Stat. 434. He
could not have sued in a District Court of the United States,
because such a court has no jurisdiction of suits at law or in
equity between private parties, except where, by special provision of an act of Congress, a District Court has the powers
of a Circuit Court, or is given jurisdiction of a particular class
of civil suits."
And after pointing out that the Bankruptcy Act of 1898
did not intend to confer the jurisdiction given under the former
bankruptcy acts, the opinion continues:
"Congress, by the second clause of section 23 of the present
bankrupt act, appears to this court to have clearly manifested
its intention that controversies, not strictly or properly part
of the proceedings in bankruptcy, but independent suits
brought by the trustee in bankcruptcy to assert a title to money
or property as assets of the bankrupt against strangers to
those proceedings, should not come within the jurisdiction
of the District Courts of the United States, 'unless by consent
of the proposed'defendant,' of which there is no pretence in
this case."
Applying the principles thus announced, remembering that
we are dealing with an action which might have been brought
by the bankrupt, but for the bankruptcy proceedings, in a
Circuit Court of the United States, we think it is apparent
that this action comes within the provisions of section 23 of
the act of 1898. The effect of clause a, as pointed out by

BUSH v. ELLIOTT.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Gray, is to prevent the jurisdiction of the United
States Circuit Court from attaching, because of the appointment of a trustee in bankruptcy. In other words, the jurisdiction of the United States courts was not to be extended,
as had been done under the former acts, because of the institution of the proceedings in bankruptcy. Under clause b the
jurisdiction of all courts is affected, and this clause pertains
to suits begun bv the trustee, anc! he is not (prior to the amendment of February 5, 1903) permitted to prosecute suits unless
by the consent of the defendant, except where the bankrupt
might have brought or prosecuted them if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted. That is, while the jurisdicof the courts was not to be extended because of the bankruptcy proceedings or the citizenship of the trustee, it was
preserved to the trustee, in the jurisdiction where the bankrupt might have brought or prosecuted the suit but for the
bankruptcy proceedings. While this section preserves the
jurisdiction of the United States Circuit Courts over cases.
coming within clause a, in clause b the right of suit by the
trustee is limited to courts wherein the bankrupt might have
brought or prosecuted the action had the bankruptcy proceedings not been instituted.
The case of Spencer v. Duplan Silk Company, 191 U. S. 526,
relied upon by the counsel for defendant in error, does not
militate against this construction. In that case the question
was as to the right to appeal directly to this court where an
action had been begun in the state court by the trustee and
was removed, on the ground of diverse citizenship, to the Federal court. It was held th4t the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court was acquired because of diverse citizenship and not
under section 23 of the Bankruptcy Act, and consequently the
judgment was final in the -Circuit Court of Appeals. The same
principle was recognized in Cochran v. Montgomery County,
199 U. S. 260, decided at this term.
The action in the present case was to recover a sum of money
alleged to have been due, prior to the bankruptcy proceedings,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

20 U. S.

to the Southern Car and Foundry Company, which was a
citizen of the State of New Jersey. The amount involved and
the diverse citizenship of the parties were such that the car
company might have sued the defendant, a citizen of the
State of Alabama, in the Circuit Court of the United States
independently of the bankruptcy proceedings. We think,
by the terms of this section, it was intended to preserve this
right to the trustee in bankruptcy, and that the citizenship of
the trustee is wholly immaterial to the jurisdiction of such a
case.
The Circuit Court erred in reaching the contrary conclusion;
and its judgment is
Reversed.

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
WARNER, BARNES AND COMPANY, LIMITED, v.
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

APPEAL FROM THE

COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 149,466. Argued March 3, 1905; decided April 3,1905; Petitions for rehearing allowed May 29, 1905; Reargued January 18, 19, 1006.-Decided on reargument May 28, 1906.

Lincoln v. United States, 197 U. S. 419, reaffirmed, after rehearing, to the

effect that the Executive order of July 12, 1898, directing that upon the
occupation of ports and places in the Philippine Islands by the forces
of the United States duties should be levied and collected as a military
contribution, was a regulation for and during the war with Spain, referred
to as definitely as though it had been named, and the right to levy duties
thereunder on goods brought from the United States ceased on the
exchange of ratifications of the treaty of peace; that after title to the
Philippine Islands passed by the exchange of ratifications on April 11,
1899, there was nothing in the Philippine Insurrection of sufficient gravity
to give to those islands the character of foreign countries within the
meaning of a tariff act; that the ratification of Executive action, and of
authorities under the Executive order of July 12, 1898, contained in the
act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691, was confined to actions taken in accord-

