OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL STEAMBOAT COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No.' 239. Argued April 20, 1906.-Decided May 14, 1906.

While a claim for salvage of Government property based on services rendered without request of any officer of the Government does not arise
upon any contract, express or implied, it isproperly one for unliquidated
damages in a case not sounding in tort, in respect to which the claimant
would be entitled to redress in the admiralty court if the United States
were suable, and, under the Tucker Act, the Court of Claims, or the proper
District Court where the claim is for less than $1,000, has jurisdiction of
a suit therefor.
The successful salving of undelivered merchandise on which duties have
been paid, but which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized by
H 2984, 3689, Rev. Stat., to refund if the goods were lost, entitles the
salvors to recover from the Government a reasonable salvage, equal to
that recovered on the private property saved at the same time, on the
amount of duties which the Government would have been under obligation to refund had the merchandise been lost. In such a case it will be
assumed that the duties will be refunded, and the claim therefor will be
regarded as a liability, although ยง 2984 is permissive and not mandatory
in form.
Although courts of admiralty have no general equity jurisdiction, and
cannot afford equitable relief in a direct proceeding for that purpose,
they may apply equitable principles to subjects within their jurisdiction.

THIs was a petition un(ler what is known as the Tucker Act,

defining the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, to recover
salvage upon the duties oil 1,883 bags of sugar, cargo of the
lighter Bangor.
The facts agreed upon anl found by the court are substantially as follows:
The Steamboat Company, a New York corporation, and
owner of the steam tug R. G. Townsend, at great risk and
peril to the tug, save([ a certain lot of 1,883 bags of sugar on
board of a lighter called the Bangor, in the waters of the port

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. 185
202 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

6f New York, which was in danger of being destroyed by fire.
The sugar had been imported from a foreign country, was subject to duty uhder the laws of the United States, and at the
time of the fire had not been delivered to the consignees, and
was still in the possession and control of the customs officers.
The duties on this sugar amounting to $6,000 had been paid
to the Government.
Petitioner filed a libel in the District Court against the cargo
to recover salvage compensation for services rendered in saving the sugar. The case resulted in a decree awarding the
petitioner salvage, amounting to ten per cent of the value. of
the property saved, viz., $1,274.03. 108 Fed. Rep. 277. In
fixing this sum the District Court considered the invoice value
of the sugar only, excluding salvage upon the duties saved to
the United States by-the salving services.
Upon these facts the District Court awarded the appellant
ten per cent upon the amount of the duties saved to the United
States, namely, $600, with clerk's fees, $3.60. 130 Fed. Rep.
480. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this judgment,
137 Fed. Rep. 455, whereupon the United States applied for
this writ of certiorari.
Mr. J. C. McReynolds, Assistant Attorney General, for the
United States:
The District Court has no jurisdiction.
Unless granted by the Tucker Act the trial court was without authority to afford relief. Obviously the present controversy, if provided for at all, must be one arising out of contract, expressed or implied, or from damages, in respect to
which respondent would be entitled to redress againist the
United States in a court of law, equity, or admiralty if suable
as a private individual.
There was no contract, expressed or implied, between the
Government and the respondent and no such thing is alleged
in the petition. The services to the cargo were purely voluntary. The claim is not one in respect of which respondent

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

202 U. S.

would be entitled to redress in a court of law, equity, or admiralty against a private individual. No recovery, either at
law or in equity, is possible for purely voluntary services.
A proceeding in admiralty in personam against a private
individual for salvage allowance is not permissible unless the
service was performed "at his request and for his benefit,"
or unless in some way a proceeding in rem against the thing
salved has become impossible-as, e. g., by clandestine removal or destruction after delivery to the owner. Benefit,
however great, from salving a cargo cannot support a claim
in personam for the services rendered. Admiralty Rule 19;
The Sabine; 101 U. S. 384, 389.
It follows that if the Government were subject to suit as
an individual, respondent's claim for saving the cargo in
question could not be enforced by a proceeding in personam
against it.
Section 2984, Revised Statutes, specifies the sole method
assented to by the Government for securing refund of duties
paid upon merchandise afterwards destroyed. The courts
have no jurisdiction of an original proceeding to enforce such
a claim-whatever might be their power in a case where the
Secretary should refuse to perform his duty.
The claim set up in the present proceeding must be regarded
as under the revenue laws. Such claims are not within the
jurisdiction of the courts, since those laws constitute a distinct and exclusive system of collection and redress. Nichols
v. United States, 7 Wall. 122, 131; D. M. Ferry & Co. v.
United States, 85 Fed. Rep. 550. See also State Railroad Tax
Cases, 92 U. S. 614; Auffmordt v. Iledden, 137 U. S. 324;
Treat v. Staples, 1 Holmes, 5; S. C., 24 Fed. Cas. 14,162.
Upon the facts, respondent's claim is without merit. What
respondent did was, purely voluntary and such services, however meritorious or beneficial, create no obligation enforceable

against the beneficiary either in law or equity.
The maritime law, for the purposes of public policy, and for
the advantage of trade and commerce, imposes in cases of

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. 187
202 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

salvage a jus in re, a liability upon the thing saved-a liability which is a special consequence arising out of the character of mercantile enterprise, the nature of the sea perils,
and the fact that the thing saved was saved under great stress
and exceptional circumstances. Kennedy on Civil Salvage, 6;
Falcke v. Scottish Imperial Ins. Co., 34 Ch. Div. 234, 248;
The Blaireau, 2 Cranch,. 240, 265; The Emblem, 8 Fed. Cas.
4434.
Salvage is only spoken of in relation to ships and vessels
and their cargoes, or those things which have been committed to, or lost in, the sea or its branches, or other public
navigable waters, and have been found and rescued. Cope
v. Vallette Dry Dock Company, 119 U. S. 625. The right does
not arise on saving property of other kinds which may have
been moored afloat, and have got adrift, such as a raft of:timber, a buoy, or a floating dry dock. Carver's Carriage by Sea,
3d ed., ยง 322.
The foundation of the admirality jurisdiction in the awarding of salvage is the power of enforcing the maritime lien obtained on property saved by salvors. The Cargo Ex. Schiller,
2 L. R., P. D. 145, 14q; The Emblem, 8 Fed. Cas. No. 4434;
The Independence, 13 Fed. Cas. 7014; The Sabine, 101 U. S. 384.
Salving charges cannot be enforced for rescuing bills of
exchange and other evidences of debt. The Emblem, 8 Fed.
Cas. No. 4434. Salvage cannot be awarded for saving the
United States mails because not subject to detention and sale.
The Merchant, 17 Fed. Cas. No. 9435.
Mr. R. D. Benedict for respondent:
The United States Government is liable to pay salvage. In
this the Govhrnment differs from an ordinary shipowner only
in the form in which it must be sued, and in the fact that no
attachment can be made of its vessel to which the service was
rendered. But its liability to pay salvage-not compensation
for work, -labor and services, but salvage, with all that the
word means-has been affirmed by the Supreme Court, by the

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Respondent.

202 U. S.

Court of Claims, by the Circuit Courts of Appeals for the
Fourth and Second Circuits, by the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut, and by the District Court for the Northern
District of California, and has never been denied by any court.
The Davis, 10 Wall. 15; Gould v. United States; 1 C. Cl. 184;
Bryan v. United States, 6 C. Cl. 128; McGowan v. United States,
20 C. Cl. 147; United States v. Morgan, 99 Fed. Rep. 570;
Hartford & N. Y. Trans. Co. v. United States, 138 Fed. Rep.
618; Rees v. United States, 134 Fed. Rep. 146;
The United States, in relation to the proprietorship of real
or personal property, has, in its public capacity, like authority
and remedies, and is subject to like liabilities in dealing with
it through legal agencies or otherwise as natural persons.
Eight Hundred and Fifty-eight Bales of Cotton, Bl. Pr. Cas. 325.
,When the United States allows itself to be sued it must
stand before the court like-any other party before the court,
affected by the same considerations as any other party. Cook
v. United States, 10 Blatch. 59; Eight Hundred and Fiftyeight Bales of Cotton, supra; United States v. Bostwick, 94
U. S. 53, 66.
It is claimed that the suit for salvage cannot lie here, because the United States did not request the service. That
proof of a specific request is not necessary is held in all the
cases above cited, for in none of them was there proof of any
specific request by the United States. The "implied contract growing out of the successful event of the service,"
United States v. Morgan, 99 Fed. Rep. 572, has always been
held sufficient ground for the jurisdiction of the court to award
salvage.
There is no merit in the claim that the Secretary -of the
Treasury might refuse to repay the duties under ยง 2984, Rev.
Stat.
The supposition that the Government will not do justice
is not to be indulged. Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall. 269;
Supervisors v United States, 4 Wall. 435, 446; Galena v. Amy,
5 Wall. 708; French v. Edwards, 13 Wall. 511.

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. 189
202 U. S.'

Opinionof the Court.

Permissive words will be construed to be mandatory -inthe
interests of individuals. Ralston v. Crittenden, 13 Fed. Rep.
512; New Orleans National Bank v. Merchant, 18 Fed. Rep.
841; National Bank of the Republic v. St. Joseph, 31 Fed Rep.
216; ProvisionalMunicipality of Pensacolav. Lehman, 27 Fed.
Rep. 324, 332; Little Rock v. United States, 103 Fed. Rep. 324;
Village of Kent v. United States, 113 Fed. Rep. 237. See also
People v. Suervisors, 51 N. Y. 401; Chinese Laborers' case,
13 Fed. Rep. 291; United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is practically a libel in personam for the salvage of
government property, viz., of $6,000 duties collected by the
Government upon a cargo of sugar saved from loss by fire,
while on board a lighter in the harbor of New York.
The claim is prosecuted under what is known as the Tucker
Act, 24 Stat. 50,5; Compiled Stat. 1901, pp. 752, 753, the first
section of which declares that "the Court of Cjaims shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine . . . all claims founded
upon the Constitution of the United States, or any law of
Congress, . . . or upon any contract, express or implied,
with the Government of the United States, or for damages,
liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in
respect of which claims the party would be entitled to redress
against the United States, either in a court of law, equity, or
admirality, if the United States were suable."
By the second section concurrent jurisdiction with the
Court of Claims was vested in the District Courts as to all
claims not exceeding $1,000.
It is at least doubtful whether an ordinary claim for salvage
can be said to arise upon contract, inasmuch. as such services
.are rendered voluntarily, frequently in the absence of the
owner of the property, and usually without a definite agreement for compensation. The Liffey, 6 Asp. M. L. C. 255;

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

Five Steel Barges, 15 P. D. 142. A claim for salvage may undoubtedly be founded upon an express contract, but where
the services are rendered, as in this case, without :request of
an officer of the Government, and particularly where they are
incidental to services rendered in the saving of private property,
we do not think the claim can be said to arise upon any con-

tract, express or implied, with the Government of the United
States, But the claim may properly be said to be one for unliquidated damages in a case "not sounding in tort," in respect of which the party would be entitled to redress in a court
of admiralty, if the United States were suable.
The Tucker Act also resolves any doubt which might arise
as to the responsibility of government property for salvage
service, since it was the very object of the act to give a direct
recourse against the Government. Indeed, that question was
settled by this court in 1869, in the case of The Davis, 10 Wall.
15, in which personal' property of the United States, in transit
from one port to another, was held- liable to a lien for salvage
services rendered in saving the property, following the rule
laid down in England in The Marquis of Huntly, 3 Haggard,
246, and The Lord Nelson, Edward's Admiralty, 79. The
same rule was adopted by Mr. Justice Story in United States
v. Wilder, 3 Sumner, 308, although both in England and in
this country vessels belonging to the United States, or to a
foreign sovereign, and engaged in the public service, are
exempt from seizure. The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116; The
Charkieh, L. R. 4 A. & E. 59; The Constitution, 4 P. D. 39;
The Parlement Belge, 4 Asp. M. L. C. 234; S. C., 5 P. D. 197.
The fact, however, that the property saved is not within
the physical possession of the court, but is of an intangible
nature, like freight or customs dues, does not prevent the maintenance of a libel in personam against the owner. Indeed,
General Admiralty Rule No. 19 provides that "in all suits for
salvage the suit may be in rem . . . or in personam against
the party at whose request and for whose benefit the salvage
services have been performed." In the case of freight the

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. 191
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

practice is, to require its payment into court. The Leo, Lush.
444.
At the basis of the claim in this case lies the proposition that,
although the duties had been actually paid before the services
had been rendered, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to refund duties upon so much of the sugar as would
have been lost by the fire had not the cargo been rescued by
the salvors. ;The obligation to refund such duties is contained in the following sections of the Revised Statutes:
"SEC. 2984. The Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized, upon production of satisfactory proof to him of the
actual injury or destruction, in whole or in part, of any merchandise, by accidental fire or other casualty, while the same
remained in the custody of the officers of the customs in any
public or private warehouse under bond, . . . or while
in custody of the officers of the customs and not in bond, or
while within the limits of any port of entry, and before the
same have been landed under the supervision of the officers
of the customs to abate or refund, as the case may be, out of
any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the
amount of impost duties paid or accruing thereupon, and- likewise to cancel any warehouse bond or bonds, or enter satisfaction thereon in whole or in part as the case may be."
Provision for such abatements or refunds is made in:
"SEC. 3689. There are appropriated, out of any moneys in
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the- purposes
hereinafter specified, such sums as may be necessary for the
same, respectively; and such appropriation shall be deemed
permanent annual appropriations. .
.
For refunding
duties paid or accruing on goods, wares, or merchandise injured or destroyed by accidental fire or other casualty, while
in the custody of the officers of customs, in any public or
private warehouse, . . . or after their arrival within the
.limits of any port of entry of the United States, and before
the same have been landed under the supervision of the officers
of the customs."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

It was held by both courts below, and we think properly,
that, if the Government were liable to refund these duties in
case the property had been destroyed by fire, it was under the
came obligation to pay salvage on such duties, as itwould have
been had property of the Government of the same value been
directly saved by the exertions of the salvors.
It is true that the language of section 2984 is permissive, and
merely "authorizes" the Secretary of the Treasury to abate
or refund duties collected upon merchandise injured or destroyed by accidental fire or other casualty, and does not in
terms require that this shall be done. We do not find it necessary, however, to go deeply into the learning expended upon
the distinction between permissive.and mandatory clauses, or
to determine whether in a particular case mandamuS, would
or would not lie against the Secretary for refusing to refund
or abate duties in that connection. D. M. Ferry & Co. v.
United States, 85 Fed. Rep. 550. Under the circumstances of
this case, as set forth in the petition and agreed findings of fact,
we are entitled to assume that the Secretary of the Treasury
would have refunded these duties in case of the accidental loss
of this sugar by fire, since the authority to do so is found in
section 2984, and the money is appropriated for such refunding by section 3689. In a particular case we- can imagine that
doubts might arise as to the propriety of such refunding, but
where a plain case is made in the findings of fact, and is not
disputed, it would be an imputation upon the good faith of
the Secretary to assume that he would refuse to return the
duties, notwithstanding the language of the statute may be
construed as' permissive merely. We think the petitioner is
entitled to build his case upon this assumption. Supervisors
v. United States, 4 Wall. 435; Galena v. Amy, 5 Wall. 704;
French v. Edwards, 13 Wall. 506.
It is insisted, however, that the Government is under no
greater liability to pay this claim than it would have been if
the duties had not been paid, and that the law is well settled
that when property is saved at sea and brought into port, it is

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. 193
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

subject to duty like other property, that the Government
owes nothing to the salvors, and by parity of reasoning that
no insurer of goods saved, nor a creditor who has advanced
money thereon, nor a seaman whose wages are preserved, can
be made liable for salvage. The obvious reason for this is that
the claim for salvage is founded upon the possession of the
property saved at the time of the salvage service, and that
the person inidentally benefited cannot be made liable under
General Admiralty Rule 19, unless he has requested the salvage,
or the service has been performed directly for his benefit.
Interpreting this rule in the case of The Sabine, 101 U. S. 384,
it was held that a libel would not lie in rem against the vessel
and in personam against the consignee of the cargo. But the
mere, possession of property may be in itself not only the origin
of a'right but the creation of a liability-as, for instance, in
.cases of money had and received or property lawfully acquired but unlawfully detained. Had the duties upon these
goods not been collected, the Government could not have been
held liable, since the services would not have been performed
for its benefit, although as a remote consequence- therefrom
it might have -been advantaged.
The case of The Five Steel Barges, 15 P. D. 142, is authority
for the proposition that the remedy in personam is not confined to the legal owner of the property saved, but extends to
one who has a direct pecuniary interest in such property. This
was an action against five barges, two of which belonged to the
Government, with whom the defendants were under contract
to build and deliver the barges.. An action in rem was brought
against the three barges, and an action in personam against the
defendants, who had contracted with the Government and
given it possession of the two barges. The court sustained
the action in personam, thinking it "perfectly clear that an
action in personam lies against the owners of a vessel which has
.been saved, even though the property has been transferred to
others and the lien lost." Continuing, the President of the
court, Sir James Hannen, observed: "I think it exists in cases
VOL. ccii-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

where the defendant has an interest in the property saved,
which interest has been saved by the fact that the property
is brought into a position of security. The jurisdiction which
the court exercises in salvage cases is of a peculiarly equitable
character. The right to salvage may arise out of an actual
contract, but it does not necessarily do so. It is a legal liability arising out of the fact that property. has been saved;
that the owner of the property, who has had the benefit of -it,
shall make remuneration to those who have conferred the
benefit upon him, notwithstanding that he has not entered
into any contract on the subject. I think that proposition
equally applies to the man who has had the benefit arising out
of the saving of the property." This last 'entence is particularly applicable to this case.
In the subsequent case of The Port Victor, 9 Asp. M. L. C.
163, the same court decided that where Government stores
were being carried at the risk of charterers, these charterers
were liable to pay salvage in a personam action apart from the
liability of the stores in rem. The case was decided largely
upon the authority of The Five Steel Barges and Duncan v.
Dundee, &c., Shipping Company, in the Court' of Sessions in
Scotland, 4th Series, vol. 5, p. 742, and was affirmed by the
Court'of Appeals in an opinion by Lord Alverstone, 9 Asp.
Mar. Cases,* 182, in which great deference was shown to the
decision of Sir James Hannen. See also Carver on Carriage
by Sea, ยง 324a.
Although courts of admiralty have no general equi.ty jurisdiction and cannot afford equitable relief in a direct proceeding for thaf purpose, they may apply equitable principles to
subjects within their jurisdiction, and in the distribution of
proceeds in their possession or under their control may give
effect to equitable claims. 2 Parsons on Shipping, 344. Bearing in mind that the duties in this case had been actually collected, were in the hands of the Government and had been
saved to it by the exertion of the salvors, who had been awarded
salvage for saving the sugars upon which the duties had been

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
Svllabus.

202 U.S.

collected, a strong case is presented for the allowance of salvage,
which should hot be lost sight of in determining the principles
applicable to the situation.
The case is clearly not one arising under the revenue laws
as they are defined in Nichols v. United States, 7 Wall. 122,
since the sections of the Revised Statutes above quoted are
only incidentally involved.
The decree*of the Circuit Court of Appeals is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

dissented.

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 196.

Argued March 6, 7, 1906.-Decidedl4ay 14, 1906.

Although the auditor and both courts below. found that plaintiff in error's
testator had been guilty of fraud and that his estate was liable, and under
the general rule this court will not disregard a particular state of facts
found by both courts below, still it can and will do so, when it is constrained to the conclusion that the premise upon which those courts acted
is without any support in the evidence and rests upon a mere mistaken
assumption; and so held in this case where the finding of fraud rested
on the uncorroborated testimony of an interested witness who had

been so discredited by uncontroverted evidence in regard to his own
acts of omission and commission as to render it impossible to accept his
testimony as establishing the alleged fraud of the deceased.
Where- by the law of their domicil, as is the case in Louisiana, minors are
represented by their father as administrator, with full power under that
law to receipt for, and administer for their account, property bequeathed
to them by a testator domiciled and dying in Virginia, a transfer of such
property to the father as the administrator or representative of his minor
children by a person having possession thereof in the District of Columbia, is valid and binding.
Under the circumstances of this case decedent's liability for an amount
invested having been fixed with accuracy as to time and amount, and it

