DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES."
202 U. S.

Syllabus.

But if we are correct in holding that it was the intention of
Congress to provide a specific penalty for failing to return the

merchandise as required, it is not within the province of courts
of equity to mitigate the harshness, of penalties or forfeitures
in such cases, for such relief would run directly counter to the
statutory requirements. Story, Eq. Jur. ยง 1326. We think"

the Circuit Court was right in rendering judgment for double
the value of the unreturned package.
The judgment of the Circuit Court oj Appeals will be reversed
and the judgment of the Circuit Court affirmed and the case
remanded to the Circuit Court'
MR. JUSTICE BREWER took no part in the decision of this case.

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 207. Argued March 13, 1906.-Decided May 14, 1.906.
Where diversity of citizenship does not exist a suit can only be maintained
in the Circuit Court of the United States on the ground that it arises under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, and it does not so arise
unless it really and substantially involves a controversy as to the effect
or construction of the Constitution or some law or treaty of the United
States on the determination whereof the result depends. This must
appear from plaintiff's statement of his own claim and cannot be aided
by allegations as to defenses which may be interposed.
In this case held that as a bill to quiet title the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court could not be sustained by reason of allegations that defendant's
adverse claims to the surface and subterranean waters of the Los Angeles
river were based on an erroneous construction of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the act of March 3, 1851, and certain state acts and city
ordinances.
Nor-can such jurisdiction be maintained of the suit as one to remove cloud
on title, as a bill in equity will not lie to dispel mere verbal assertions of
ownership or to adjudge state statutes and charters unconstitutional and
void. If the statutes and charters are unconstitutional they are void
and cannot constitute a cloud on title.
Where complainant claims title to land in California under Mexican grans
confirmed by the Board of Land Commissioners as the State of Californla

OCTOBER TERM, 1905
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

is not in the line of such titles a statute of that State conferring water
rights on a city does not deprive complainants of their property or impair the obligation of any contract as the State can only confer whatever
rights in such waters had vested in it.

COMPLAINANTS below, appellants here, are 244 in number and

own in severalty various tracts of land aggregating several thousand acres, located in the county of Los Angeles, California, in
Ranchos San Rafael, Los Felis, and Providencia. The Rancho
San Rafael was granted by the King of Spain and the other
two ranchos by the Republic of Mexico to the predecessors of
complainants. The titles were confirmed, pursuant to the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, to the successors of the original
grantees by the Board of Land Commissioners created by and
acting under an act of Congress approved March 3, 1851, entitled an act to ascertain and settle private land claims in the
State of California. Patents were thereupon issued by the
United States to the confirmees and it was alleged that these
grants conveyed the title to the waters within them.
It was further alleged that the city of Los Angeles claimed
to be the successor in right and title to all the grants made by
the Spanish and Mexican governments to the Pueblo de Los
Angeles, and the city filed a claim before the Land Commissioners in virtue of the general laws of Spain to sixteen square
leagues of land, alleging that the said lands had been granted
to the pueblo, which board confirmed the title of the city to
four square leagues of land but rejected its claim to the remaining twelve square leagues, and that a patent was issued to the
city by the United States for the land so confirmed, which patent did not refer to the river or its tributary waters, and did
not purport to convey any of the waters of said river. That
the city claimed the paramount right to the waters of the Los
Angeles river and the river itself in virtue of the grants, laws,
usages and customs of the Republic of Mexico and of the Kingdom of Spain, made and in vogue prior to the cession of the
territory embtaced within the State of California to the United
States under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and by virtue

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of certain acts of the legislature of the State of California re-

ferred to in the bill, and especially by virtue of an act of the
legislature of California passed April 4, 1850, incorporating the
city of Los Angeles and declaring that it "shall succeed to all
the rights, claims, and powers of the Pueblo de Los Angeles in
regard to property, and shall be subject to all the liabilities incurred, and obligations created, by the Ayuntamiento of said
Pueblo.'"'
It was further alleged that the city never procured the confirmation of any rights in the waters of the Los Angeles river
other than those that passed under the grant of land conferred
by the patent, and that the act of the legislature, passed April 4,
1850, and certain other acts of the legislature and proceedings,
acts and charters of the city set forth in the bill, are a cloud
upon complainants' title to their lands. That the Los Angeles
river runs through the three rafichos and thence through the
city; that complainants' lands are riparian to the stream; that
underlying complainants' lands are percolating waters which
do not constitute a part of the river, but which by reason of the
patents referred to, and mesne conveyances, belong to the several complainants as owners of said lands. The bill then went
on to aver that the city claims that it is the owner of the river
and its tributaries and their waters, passing through the ranchos
named, and of the percolating waters in complainants' lands;
that it claims the right to appropriate said waters for the use
of the city and its inhabitants, and that complainants have no
right to take any of the surface waters of the river or the percolating waters except in subordination-to the city's paramount
right to take and use the same, and that the city threatens and
intends to institute suit in the state courts of California to enjoin complainants from using any of the waters possessed by
them from wells on their lands.
That the city rests its right and claim to the river and its
waters upon a certain construction of the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo and of the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, and upon
certain acts of the California legislature and certain charters

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

of the city of Los Angeles adopted and approved in pursuance
of an erroneous construction of the treaty and the act of Congress; the acts and charters being enumerated.
It was further alleged that under said acts and said charters
the city has asserted and assumed the right to take physical
control of the Los Angeles river and its tributaries, and has
exercised the right of obstructing ditches and other conduits
maintained by owners of land in the valley of the river above
the city and of preventing the use of the waters of the river for
irrigation of the lands of complainants, and that said laws and
charters and the exercise of said rights have resulted in the
destruction of the values of the lands. And it was charged
that the acts of the legislature and the charters of the city of
Los Angeles were in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, in that they deprived
or attempted to deprive complainants of their property without
due process of law and to grant the same to the city of Los
Angeles; that the acts and charters impaired the obligation
of the contracts expressed in the patents of the United States
to complainants' lands; and that the assertion and exercise by
the city of the right to control the river and its waters were in
violation of section 1979, Title XXIV, of the Revised Statutes
of the United States.
And the bill further averred that the construction of the act
of Congress of March 3, 1851, upon which the defendant city
rested its right and claim to said river and to sdid waters, is
erroneous, and that, according to the proper construction
thereof, the city was required to present to the Board of Land
Commissioners its claim to the waters of the river for confirmation.
It was also alleged that the claims and. threats of the city
to institute actions against complainants and the control which
it has exercised over the river and the waters thereof, and the
several acts of the legislature of California and the charter of
the city purporting to confer title to the river and its waters
upon the city as the successor to the Mexican pueblo, cast a

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

cloud upon the titles of complainants to their lands, and had,
in large measure, destroyed the market values thereof.
It was prayed:
1. That a decree be granted complainants removing the
cloud cast by the city of Los Angeles upon their titles to the
lands described in the bill, and that the acts of the legislature
of the State of California and the charters of the city be declared invalid in respect to "conferring upon the city any rights
in the waters of the Los Angeles river acquired from the pueblo
of Los Angeles, other than such rights as were ascertained and
confirmed under the act of March 3, 1851.
2. That a decree be granted to complainants and each of
them quieting their several titles to their lands and to the
waters therein, and to the riparian fight of each of them to
use the waters of said river, as against the paramount title
claimed by said city to have been derived from Spain or Mexico, or claimed to have been derived from or to be supported
by said acts of the legislature of the State of California, .or by
the charter of said city; and also that it be decreed that complainants and the city have each and severally such title only
derived from Spain and Mexico as was confirmed and patented
to them or their predecessors by the act of Congress of March 3,
1851.
3. That a decree be granted to complainants forever enjoining the city of Los Angeles from setting up or asserting such
paramount right and title to said waters; and further enjoiriing
said city from asserting and exercising dominion or control over
said river and said waters under or by virtue of said acts of
the legislature or said charter of said city of Los Angeles.
It was alleged in the answer that by the terms of each of the
grants to the three randhos named in the bill, and by the laws
of the Govermnent making the same, all of the waters within
any of the lands embraced in said ranchos, which formed a
part of or found their way into the surface or subterranean
stream of the Los Angeles river, were excepted and reserved
in favor of the pueblo of Los Angeles, and that none of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

waters were confirmed or granted by the United States to complainants' predecessors.
It was admitted that the city claimed to be, and it was alleged that the city was, in fact, the successor to all the rights
and grants made by the Spanish and Mexican Governments
to the.pueblo of Los Angeles.
The answer further alleged that the patent issued by the
United States to the city of Los Angeles purported to grant
to the mayor and council of the city of Los Angeles all appurtenances belonging to the land therein granted, which included
all the waters of the river and the right to the use of the same.
It was admitted that the city claimed the paramount right
to the waters of the Los Angeles river, by virtue of grants,
laws, usages and customs of the Republic of Mexico and the
Kingdom of Spain and the act of the legislature approved
April 4, 1850, mentioned in the bill, but it was denied that
these were the only sources of title through which the city
claimed; and alleged that it also claimed said paramount right
by virtue of long-continued use and possession of said river
and the waters thereof for the period of more than one hundFed and twenty years, and by various grants and conveyances
from private individuals, and by virtue of various judgments
and decrees of courts of competent jurisdiction and of the
patents to the mayor and common council of the city of Los
Angeles, mentioned in the bill, and also by virtue of its ownership of various tracts of land, which are riparian to said river,
amounting in area to more than four thousand acres, .embracing the land through which the river flows in passing through
the lands included in said patent.
The answer disclaimed that the city acquired, under the act
of the legislature passed April 4, 1850, any right to the Los
Angeles river, or the water thereof, or any other water or right
which was, at the time of the passage of said act, vested in
the predecessors of complainants, or any private individual or
corporation.
The answer denied that the acts of the legislature, or the

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

proceedings or acts or charter of the city, referred to in the
bill, constituted any cloud upon complainants' titles, but, on
the contrary, alleged that none of complainants had, at the

time of the commencement of the suit, or have now, any right.
or interest in or to the waters of the Los Angeles river, save
in subordination to the paramount right of the city to take
and use all of the waters of said river to the extent of the necessities of th6 'city or its inhabitants.
The answer alleged that all of the waters underlying com-*
plainants' lands form and constitute a part of the Los Angeles
river, and would, if not intercepted, reach the surface stream
of the river at a point above the northern boundary of the
city, and denied that any of said waters belonged to the several complainants, or that they, or any of them, have ever had
any ownership of said waters, save in subordination to the
paramount right of the city to take and use said waters, so
far as it and its inhabitants might need the same.
It was denied that in the petition of the mayor and common
council of the city of Los Angeles to the Board of Land Commissioners for confirmation of the pueblo lands, no claim was
made to the waters of the Los Angeles river, and alleged that
the Board of Land Commissioners, in its finding and judgment
confirming the claim of the city to the pueblo lands, also confirmed its claim to the rights' with respect to the waters of the
river which were possessed by the pueblo; and it was admitted
that the city of Los Angeles had in the past claimed and still
claimed to be the owner of all the waters of said river, and of
its tributaries, from its sources of supply to the southern boundary of the city, and also of all of the. waters existing in complainants' lands, and of the waters under said lands; and it
was alleged that all of the waters in those lands did in fact
constitute a stream or watercourse, and were part of the waters
of the Los Angeles river. The city admitted that it claimed
that complainants had no right to pump the waters in their
lands, because such pumping might ultimately have the effect
of reducing the supply in the surface and subterranean river,

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

and it was denied that they were percolating waters, and also
denied that the city claimed the right to enter on the lands of
any of complainants to take or use said waters, or any part
thereof, without having first obtained the right so to do, by
grant from or condemnation against said complainants. It
was admitted that the city claimed the right" to prevent complainants from using the waters in their lands when the city
had need of the same, but denied that it claimed the right to
prevent complainants from using said waters by entering upon
their lands or by using physical force, and alleged that the city
claimed the right to prevent the, use of said waters by complainants only in the manner prescribed by the laws of the
State of California, and that the city intended to enforce its
rights against complainants by means of the suit brought by
it, as alleged in the bill, in the state court against certain of
the complainants, for the purpose of enjoining them from using
the waters pumped by them from their lands, and by means
of other legal process, and not by any unlawful acts or physical
force.
It was admitted that the city rested its claim to the Los Angeles river and the waters thereof, including the waters in the
lands of complainants, in part upon the treaty of Guadalupe
Ilidalgo, according to the manifest meaning thereof, viz., that
the rights of pueblos were intended to be protected by said
treaty, as well as the rights of individuals; and it was admitted
that the city rested its claim in part upon the act of Congress
of March 3, 1851, according to the manifest meaning. thereof,
viz., that the claims of pueblos and of municipdl corporations
succeeding them to lands granted by the Spanish and Mexican
Governments were entitled to confirmation, and that the confirmation thereof had the effect of confirming all water rights
which were appurtenant to said lands, and that said act did
not require claims for property other than lands to be presented
for confirmation.
It was denied that the city rested its claim to the Los Angeles river and its waters, including the waters in the lands of

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

complainants, upon the laws of the State of California and the
ordinances and charters of the city of Los Angeles, except to
the extent that the same had the effect of vesting and continuing in the city and its predecessors such rights with respect
to the waters of the Los Angeles river as were possessed by
the pueblo at the time the pueblo was dissolved and the city
was incorporated by. the act.of April 4, 1850, and such rights
with respect to the waters of the river as might have been
vested in the State of California upon its admission to the
Union.
It was expressly disclaimed that there was granted by said
acts of the legislature, or by the city charter, to the mayor and
common council of the city of Los Angeles any right to develop
waters .percolating under the bed of the Los Angeles river or
elsewhere, which at the time of the passage of said acts, or at
the time of the adoption of said charter, -was vested. in the
complainants, or any of them, or in their predecessors, or in
any private individual or corporation.
It was alleged that the legislative acts and the ordinances and
charters mentioned in the bill were adopted with the intention
of asserting that the city of Los Angeles was the owner of all
the rights possessed by the pueblo of Los Angeles to the waters
of the Los Angeles river, and not with the intention of depriving complainants, or any of them, or any of their predecessors,
or any other private individual or private corporation, of any
right in respect to the waters of said river; and denied that
by any of said acts of the legislature mentioned in the bill, or
by the charter of the city or the amendments thereof, there
was intended to be granted to the city any right with respect
to the water, flowing in said river or beneath the surface of the
bed thereof, which was then vested in complainants, or any
of them, or any of their predecessors, or any private individual or private corporation, or that by any of said acts it was
intended to divest any private person or corporation of any
vested private rights in said waters, or that any of said acts
had ever been construed by any court in the State of California
v.t,. ccii-21

OICTOB3ERTERM, 1905.
Sttinext of the

Case.

202 U. S.

to sd divest Aihy sdthh private vested rights, but on the contrary It *as illeged that it had been determined by the Supreme Court of California that said acts did not. have such
effect:
The ansWer deified that Wne city had ever interfered with
the appellants ii the use of the waters of the river or its tribUtaries, o1 the .waters of said -valley, except when such waters
wert located bn or in the lands of the city or on or in lands
di which the city had acquired the right of entry to ..divert
and use said waters, except when the city has interfered, with
such use by judgments of bourt obtained by due process of
law, and denied that the city has ever-assumed or asserted the
right to take physical control of any waters on or in complainants' lands. It was disclaimed that the acts or charters
refefred to in thb bill granted to the city the right
to take
physical bohitrol of pioperty belonging to complainants.
The Aiiswe detiied that the acts of the legislature and the
ordinances and charters of the city of Los Angeles, mentioned
in th6 bill, or any of themi, were in Violation of the Fourteenth
Airiehdment, 6k ifiiPaired the obligation of contracts; or were
.in violation of section 1979, Title XXIV, of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
The answer alleged that according to the proper construction of the aet of March 3, 1851, the confirmation and patent
thefein provided for only had the effect of confirming to the
cobnfirmee and patentee the lands therein described, but subject to all the easements and servitudes imposed thereon, by
the laws of Spain and Mexico in favor of third parties, including the righfs to the Waters of unnavigable streams which were
attached to other lands, or belonged to pueblos or private individuals other than the -grantees. And Where such water
rights were appurtenant to lands granted by the Spanish and
Mekican Governments and confirmed and patented under said
act of Congress, such water rights passed by such patents, and
a claim for such water rights was not required by such act "to
be confirmed or patented.

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

It *as admitted that the city claimed that complainants
had no right to the waters of the Los Angeles river, including
the waters in other lands, as against the city and its inhabitants,
when the city shall deterrmine that it needs said waters, and
that the city claims that the use by the complainants of such
waters is at the sufferance of the city, and may be prohibited
by the city at any time, and that the city is threatening to
institute suitg against complainants for the purpose of enforcing such claims, but it is denied that any and all said claims
or any dominion or control which the city has exercised over
the river and the waters thereof has cast any cloud upon the
several titles of complainants to their lands or affected the
market value or salability of such lands.
It was alleged in the answer that in the year 1781 a pueblo
was founded on the site of the present city of Los Angeleg by
the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, and that, according
to the laws hnd regulations of that country, said pueblo became entitled to the sole and exclusive right in perpetuity to
the absolute ownership of all the waters of the Los Angeles
river, whether flowing upon or beneath the surface of the
ground; that said river then rose and now rises several miles
above the site of the pueblo and ran and still runs down through
said site to the lands now embraced within the city of Los
Angeles; that during the whole of the occupation and control
of said pueblo by the Spanish and Mexican Governments the
municipal authorities at all times exercised control of and
claimed the exclusive right to use all the waters of said river,
and that right was during all of said time recognized and acknowledged by the owners of all of the lands bordering on said
river, including the predecessors of complainants; that ever
since the occupation and control of said pueblo by the United
States and by the State of California the municipal authorities
of the city have exercised the same rights over and to the
waters of the river as were previously exercised and claimed
by the authorities of the pueblo, and that such control and
rights were exercised and claimed for the purpose of irrigation

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

and for the domestic and other uses of said pueblo and said
city and the inhabitants thereof.
It was further alleged that within one year after the foundation of the pueblo the municipal authorities thereof constructed
a system of irrigation works and conveyed the waters of the
river to and upon lands in the pueblo, and that thereafter
from time to time other lands of the pueblo were brought under irrigation, so that all of said waters were diverted from said
,river and used for such irrigation during a period of many
years prior to the conquest of California by the United States,
and that, from and after such conquest, the same use was
made of the waters, of the river for the irrigation of lands
within the pueblo and for domestic use of its inhabitants up
to the time of the passage of the act of April 4, 1850, incorporating the city of Los Angeles; that from and after that
time the municipal authorities of said city continued to construct additional works for the more economical diversion and
distribution of such waters for use in irrigating lands within
said city and for domestic use of the inhabitants thereof; that
within the past eighteen years nearly all of said irrigable landshave been divided into building lots and covered with houses,
so that all of the waters previously used for the irrigation of
said lands, excepting the portion thereof which has been diverted by complainants within the last five years, have been
used by the city, and its inhabitants for purposes other than
for irrigation, and all of the waters of said river during the
dry season of each year, extending from the first day. of May
to the first day of November, and a great portion of said waters
during the rest of the year, have been needed for said uses.
That the population of said city is not less than 180,000 people,
and is increasing at the rate of more than 10,000 per year,
and that the city has no other source of Water supply except
said river.
It was alleged that, with certain exceptions referred to
therein, the pueblo of Los Angeles, from the time of its foundation in the year 1781, up to the incorporation of the pueblo as a

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

city by the act of 1850, and the said city from that time until
now has continuously, exclusively and adversely to the whole
world used all of the waters of the Los Angeles river under a
claim of ownership of said waters, the exceptions referred to
being claims made by certain persons at various times of rights
to the use of the waters of the river and of affluents thereof,
which' have been litigated and decided by the state courts in
favor of the city, and it was further alleged that within the
past twelve years certain owners of lands in which flowed underground waters of the river have set up a claim that said
waters were not a part of the river and that they were entitled
to take and appropriate said underground waters for their own
use, and that, in pursuance of such claims, great numbers of
said parties, including some of complainants, had constructed
wells and engaged in pumping large quantities of said water,
thereby diminishing the surface flow of the river, and that it
was for the purpose of preventing such diminution that the
city was bringing and contemplated bringing the actions
against complainants referred to in the bill; that within the
past five years such abstraction of these underground waters
did not interfere with the supply of water required by the city,
but within the past three years the amount of diversion by
means of said wells has increased so much and the needs of
the city and its inhabitants have also so greatly increased that
the waters of the river which reached the surface stream thereof
and the underground diversion works of the city have not been
sufficient to supply it and its inhabitants with the water needed
by them.
It was also alleged that the city in its corporate name or in
the name of the board of water commissioners is the owner of
numerous tracts of land which are riparian to the river, and
which are particularly described in the answer. And further,
that in the year 1879 two actions were commenced by predecessors of some of complainants against the city of Los Angeles,
claiming the right to divert and use waters of the river, and
both of said actions were finally determined by the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

202 U. S.

Court of the State of California against- the plaintiffs and in
favor of the city, and it was alleged that complainants, who.
are successors in intere'sts of the plaintiffs in the suits last men-'
tioned, are by said judgments estopped to deny that the city
is the owner of a paramount right to use so much of the waters
of the Los Angeles river as it and its inhabitants may need.
Thereafter the city of Los Angeles, by its counsel, moved the
court to dismiss this cause on the ground that it appeared that
the court had no jurisdiction thereof, which motion was sustained and the bill dismissed, whereupon the cause was brought
here on certificate.
Mr. Cyrus F. McNutt, with whom Mr. Warren E. Lloyd and
Mr. J. E. Harmon were on the brief, for appellants:
The bill presents several Federal questions. It is not an
action under ยง 738 of the Code of Civil Procedure of California
to quiet title generally, but a bill in equity to remove clouds
from complainants' titles. However that section is construed
by the California courts, as providing an exclusive remedy for
quieting titles to land, the legislature and the courts of the
State cannot affect the equity practice and jurisdiction in the
Federal courts.
The original jurisdiction in equity, conferred by the Constitution, imposes the duty to adjudicate according to the rules
of the English Chancery Court, as administered from the time
of the emigration of our ancestors, down to the period when
the Constitution was formed. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling &c.
Bridge Co., 18 How. 492. The equity jurisdiction of the Federal courts is the same as the English High Court of Chancery,
and is not subject to limitation or restraint of state legislation.
Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 430.
Equity practice and jurisdiction of Federal courts is uniform throughout the United Statep,.and cannot be varied by
tate laws. Russell v. Southard, 12 How. 147.
The act of 1872, requiring pleading and procedure in civil
causes in the Circuit and District Courts to conform, as near

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
'202 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

as may be, to the pra6tice in state courts, has po applipction
to equity or admiralty causes. Blease v. Gqrlington, 92 U. S.
8; Bucher v. Cheshire R. R., 125 U. S. 482.
Though state legislatures may abolish, ip state co irts, the
distinction between actions at law and actions in equity, by
enacting that there shall be but one form of action, which shall
be called "civil action," yet the distinction between the two
sorts of proceedings cannot be thereby obliterated in the Federal courts. Thompson v. R. )?. Companies, 6 Wall. 134.
The allegations of the bill raise Federal questions by setting
out the claim of title by complainants and the clouds cast on
such title by the defendants, claiming under a treaty and
various laws of the United States and its predecessor in titJe
and sovereignty as well as various acts of the legislature Qf
California which are in violation of the Constitution.
The admissions and averments in the .aner are in answer
to the charge in the bill, that the city's claim to the rivpr and
is reste. in
its waters and the waters in complainants' I
part upon a construction of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo,
which construction, and that alleged to be Plc.4ed upprq the
act of Congress of March 3, 1851, are set forth with particularity.
Whether such admissions in defendant's answer to the 4verments of the bill in this respect, will be considered as strengthening such averments of the bill, must depend upon whether
this court will look beyond the bill in determining whether a
Federal question is presented there; and if so, -whether there
be any matter in the answer defeating such jurisdiction. In
.either event, the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo is fairly drawn
into this cause, and whether the averments of the bill alone,
or such averments and ihe admissions of the answer, he-considered, the construction of that instrument must be had in
order to a proper determination of the controversy here.
The amended bill is framed according to the rules of equity
pleading established by this court under ยง 917 of the Revised
Statutes, and in all respects follows. well settled practice in

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

202 U. S.

equity. Under Equity Rule 21, the complainant has a right
to state defendant's claims and in certain suits they form the
very gist of the action. Having been properly pleaded, it is
for the court to determine whether or not they form a logical
and necessary portion of complainants' case. If they do,
there is no doubt that the court- may regard them in determining its jurisdiction. When the claim of the defendant is
no longer a supposed pretense or excuse, but a specific cloud
on title, evidenced by written instruments and records and
specific acts, the plaintiff is unable to state his cause of action
at all without alleging it. Such allegations are no longer the
charging part of the bill but its very substance. If not alleged, evidence will not be received regarding them. Foster's
Federal Practice, ยง 67; Crockett v. Lee, 7 Wheat. 522.
The acts of the legislature of the State of California complained of are prima facie valid and a cloud on title, and complainants have a right in equity to have, the same removed
and the claims of defendant thereunder quieted. 7 Cyc. 255,
Article "Cloud on Title." Courts of equity always show the
highest solicitude regarding land titles and will afford a remedy appropriate to the circumstances of each case. Sharon v.
Tucker, 144 U. S. 533.
Complainants claim protection under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, in that the legislative acts and municipal acts and ordinances pleaded, deprive, or attempt to deprive, them of their property without
due process of law.
If the complainants have the title in their lands which they
allege, an act of the legislature of. California granting to de'ndant the exclusive right to all the waters in the river Los
Angeles is an attempt to deprive complainants of property
protected by the Constitution. As a matter of fact, it has unsettled all land titlps in the valley through which the Los Angeles river runs. Defendant claims every benefit of these legislative acts. It denies that complainants ever owned any of
the waters in their lands. Coupled with this, it attempts the

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

disclaimer as to "vested" rights. Having denied the vested
rights, the disclaimer becomes but another way by which defendant asserts title.
The proposition is untenable that the city of Los Angeles,
even through its common council, could disclaim, deny or in
any way affect the validity of a legislative enactment. No
power outside of a judicial tribunal is clothed with any such
authority. It would be a dangerous doctrine to establish in
this country, to hold that the exercise of powers by the legislature of a State, or the effect of its enactments, can be so
revised and annulled by a party to a suit.
No authority is anywhere shown as coming from the city
council, authorizing or empowering its counsel, appearing in
this .case, to make any such disclaimer as is attempted to be
-made in the answer.
The acts, ordinances and charters in favor of defendant,
alleged in the bill, impair the obligation of the contracts made
through and by the several patents of the United States to the
predecessors in title of complainants.
The complainants are subjected to the deprivation of property rights, privileges and immunities secured to them by the
Constitution and laws of the United'States, under color of the
statutes of the State of California, referred to in the bill, and
in violation of section 1979, Title XXIV of the Revised Statutes.
Mr. W. B. Matthews and Mr. J. R. Scott, with whom Mr.
Henry T. Lee was on the brief, for appellee:
As the requisite diversity of citizenship does not exist, the
court has no jurisdiction of this suit unless it is one arising
under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States..
A case arises under the Constitution, a law or a treaty of
the United States, only when its correct decision depends upon
the construction of the Constitution or of such law or treaty.
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 379; Osborne v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 822; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S.264;

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

202 U. S.

Bankers' Casualty Co. v. Minn., St.,P. &c. Ry., 192 U. S. 371,
381; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411.
The jurisdiction of the court must be made to appear from
complainants' statement of their own claims, and not from
their statement of the nature of the defendant's claim.
While the appellants, in the prayer of the bill, ask for a
decree quieting their title to the lands described in the bill,
it is evident that they did not intend by their pleading to state
a cause of action to quiet title under the old chancery practice. See Boston &c. Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., 188
U. S. 632.
It is apparent that this bill was intended to be framed under section 738, Code of Civil Procedure of California. This
statute is similar to statutes in many other States, upon the
same subject, and it has the effect of enlarging the ancient
jurisdiction of courts of equity in respect to suits to quiet title.
Wehrman v. Conklin, 155 U. S. 314, 325. These enlarged
equitable rights are administered in Federal courts, so far as
they do not conflict with any provision of the Constitution or
with the statutes of the United States. Broderick's Will, 21
Wall. 503; Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15, 26; United States
v. Wilson, 118 U. S. 86; Frost v. Spitley, 110 U. S. 557.
Section 738 of the Code of Civil Procedure of California, was
copied from the old Practice Act of that State, Laws Cal. 1851,
pp. 92, 93, in reference to which the Supreme Court of California, in the case of Head v. Fordyce, 17 California, 151, said:
"The act was intended to erhbrace every description of
claim whereby the plaintiff might be deprived of the property,
or its title clouded, or its value depreciated, or whereby the
plaintiff might be incommoded or damnified by the assertion
of an outstanding title, already held, or to grow out of the ad*verse pretension."
The allegations of the bill, that the adverse claims of the
city to the waters of the Los Angeles river, and the waters in
,the lands of the complainants, are based upon an erroneous
construction of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, etc., are un-

'DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U.S.

Argument for Appellee.

necessary to a statement of appellants' case in a suit to quiet
title to such property under the enlarged equitable jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court. These allegations are plainly intended
to raise a Federal question where none would otherwise appear, and they are, therefore, improper. Tennessee v. Union
& Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Boston &c. Mining Co. v.
Montana Ore Co., 188 U. S. 632; Arkansas v. Kansas & Texas
Coal Co, 183 U. S. 185; FloridaCentral &c. Railroad v. Bell,
176 U. S. 321.
The bill discloses an entire misconception, on the part of
the appellants, of the nature and purpose of a suit to remove
a cloud, in two particulars: first, such a suit is aimfed at an
instrument or record and not at mere threats, claims, or pretensions;, and, second, it is not available for the purpose of
having a statute canceled; or adjudged to be void. Castro v.
Barry, 79 California, 443, 446; Pixley v. Huggins, 15 Califoinia, -127; Parker v. Shannon, 121 Illinois, 452; Burr v.
Hunt, 18 California, 303; Hannewinkle v. Georgetown, 15 Wall.
547.
It is manifest that, by the force of the terms used, a statute, which is alleged to be unconstitutional, cannot, at the
same time, be alleged to constitute'a cloud upon a title. If
it is unconstitutional, it is a nullity. An unconstitutional law
is void and is no law, Siebold's Case, 100 U.-S. 376. This is
a general rule of equity in suits to remove a cloud on a title
and it is embodied in sections 3412 and 3413, of the Civil Code
of California, which provide substantially that where an instrument is void on its face or upon the face of another instrument which is necessary to the use of the former in evidence,
it is not to be deemed capable of creating a clou d. Williams
v. Corcoran, 46 California, 553. So in this case the statutes
and charters which are declared in the bill to be obnoxious to
the Constitution of the United States, if they are subject to"
that objection, are void on their face, and therefore do not
constitute 'acloud on the title of appellant.
The question of the repugnancy of the acts of the legislature

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

and the charters of the city to the Federal Constitution is primarily for the state courts.
The question of the repugnancy of these acts or charters to
the impairment clause or the deprivation clause of the Constitution, does not actually or necessarily arise under the allegations of the bill. The judicial power extends 'to all cases in
law or equity, arising under the Constitution, but these are
cases actually, and not potentially, arising, and jurisdiction
cannot be assumed on mere hypothesis. New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411, 424; Defiance Water Company v. Defiance, .191 U. S. 184.
Section 1979, Title XXIV, Revised Statutes of the United
States, has no application to suits of this nature. Holt v. Indiana Manufacturing Company, 176.U. S.68.
-The fact that the United States, in issuing patents to the
predecessors of the appellants, under the act of March 3, 1851,
did not pretend that it was the owner of such lands, is shown
by the provisions contained in the act, that patents issued
thereunder shall be "conclusive between the United States and
said claimants only, and shall not affect the interests of third
persons.". The act is not drawn in question and made the
'subject of dispute merely because adverse claims are made to
rights claimed thereunder. Cook County v. Calumet & C.
Canal & D. Co., 138 U. S. 653; Blackburn v. Portland Gold
Mining Co., 175 U. S.571; DeLamar's Nevada Gold Min. Co.
v. Nesbitt, 175 U. S.523.
The disclaimers contained in the answer effectually remove
any possible ground of Federal jurisdiction. Crystal Springs
Land & Water Co. v. Los Angeles, 177 U. S.169; Boston &c.
Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., supra.
*

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
There being no diversity of citizenship, the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court could. only be maintained upon the ground

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the suit arose under the Constitution or laws or. treaties
of the United States, and. a suit does not so arise unless it
really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy as
to the effect or construction of the Constitution or some law
or treaty of the United States, upon the determination of which
*the result depends. And this must appear from the plaintiff's
statement of his own claim, and cannot be aided by allegations
as to the defenses which might be interposed.
Complainants prayed for a decree quieting their title to the
lands described in the bill, but the averments did not bring
the case within the classes of bills of peace or to quiet title,
recognized by the usual chancery practice as succinctly stated
in Boston &c. Mining Company v. Montana Ore Company,. 1.88
U. S. 632. It was apparently framed under section 738 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure, providing that "an action
may be brought by any person against another who claims an
estate or interest in real property adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim." This statute enlarged the ancient jurisdiction of courts of equity in respect
of suits to quiet title,, but, the equitable rights themselves
remaining, the enlargement thereof may be administered by
the Circuit Courts of the United States as well as by the courts
of the State. Broderick's Will, 21 Wall. 503; Holland
v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15; Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S. 338,.
348.
It seems, and it has often been held by the Supreme Court
of California, that in an action under this section it is not
necessary that the complaint should allege the nature of the
estate or interest claimed by the defendant. Head v. Fordyce,
17 California, 149, 151; Castro v. Barry, 79 California,
443; Mining Company v. Mining Company, 83 California,
589.
We are dealing with the question of the jurisdiction 6f the
Circuit Court, and the general rule as to that is thus stated by
Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the court, in Boston Mining
Company v. Montana Ore Company, .88 U. S. 632:

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

"It would be wholly unnecessary and improper in order to
prove complainant's cause of action to go into any matters of
defense which the defendants might possibly set up, and thefA
attempt to reply to such defense, and thus, if possible, to show
that a Federal question might, or probably would arise in the
course of the trial of the case. To allege such defense and then
make an answer to it before the defendant has the opportunity
to itself plead or prove its owu defense is inconsistent with any
known rule of pleading so far as we are aware, and is improper.
"The rule is a reasonable-and just one that the complainant
in the first instance shall be confined to a statement of its
cause of action, leaving the defendant to set up in his answer
what his defense is.
"The cases hold that to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction
the Federal question must appear necessarily in the statement
of the plaintiff's cause of action, and not as mere allegations
of the defense which the defendants intend to set up or which
they rely upon. Third Street Railway Company v. Lewis, 173
U. S. 457."
Tested by this rule, we are of opinion that, as a bill to quiet
title, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court cannot be sustained
by reason of'the allegations that defendant's adverse claims
are based on an erroneous construction of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the act of March 3, 1851, and the acts of
the legislature of California, and ordinances and charters of
the city of Los Angeles, enumerated., as clearly shown hereafter.
But complainants, appellants here, deny that the present
case was brought under section 7.38, and say that the bill was
one to remove clouds from complainants' titles, that is to say,
clouds created by claims and threats, and by the several acts
of California; including defendant's charters, which complainants ask to be declared invalid.
We do not understand, however, that a bill will lie to dispel
mere verbal-assertions of ownership as clouds on title, or, in-

. DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

voking equity interposition on the ground of the removal of
clouds, that decrees may be sought adjudging statutes unconstitutional and void. If it were true that the statutes and
charters referred to in the bill were unconstitutional as alleged,
they were void on their face, and could not constitute a cloud
on coiplainants' titles.
The test as to when a cloud is or is not cast, as stated by
Mr. Justice Field, then Chief Justice of California, in Pixley v,
Huggins, 15. California, 127, and reasserted in Hannewinklc v.
Georgetown, 15 Wall. 547, is undoubtedly applicable, and demonstrates that the assertion of unconstitutionality cannot
be resoi'ted to to maintain Federal jurisdiction as constituting a cloud. The averment of unconstitutionality in such
circumstances is a mere pretext to obtain that jurisdiction.
According to the bill, complainants' titles were derived from
Spain and Mexico by virtue of grants to their predecessors
from those countries, which were confirmed by the Board of
Land Commissiomers. The State of California was not in the
line of such titles, so that the acts of the legislature and the
charters of the city complained of manifestly did not have the
effect of depriving complainants of their property or of impairing the obligation of any contract, but simply conferred
on the city such rights in respect of the waters of the river as
may have been vested in the State.
Hooker v. Los Angeles, 188 U. S. 314, was a suit, brought by
the city to condemn a tract of land riparian to lie Los Angeles river, and embraced in one of the ranchos described ill
the present bill. It originated in the Superior Court of the
County of Los Angeles under the title of City of Los Angeles v.
Pomeroy, was carried to the Supreme'Court of the State, anid
there affirmed. 124 California, 597, 637, 638. It involved the
question of the respective rights of the city and of thedefendants to the water of the Los Angeles river. The state Supreme
Court said:
can diminish or change
"No act of the legislature

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the rights, of the defendants in these lands derived from their
predecessors, the Mexican and Spanish grantees.
"The defendants hold their lands as successors to several
Spanish and Mexican grantees, under patentsfrom the United
States based upon the original grants. They claim that, even
conceding the rights of the pueblo and the city's succession to
those rights (a concession which they make only for the purposes of the argument on this point), they are still, by virtue
of their ownership of the lands in question, entitled to the exercise of full riparian rights, except so far, an.-o far only, as
those rights are impaired by the paramount rights of the pueblo
as they existed before the change of flag and without any legislative addition thereto.
"This claim, we think, is clearly just. The legislature of
California could grant nothing to the city of Los Angeles which
belonged to others, and the rights of the city, as successor to
the pueblo, in the lands of ril)arian proprietors holding under
Mexican and Spanish grants, cannot exceed the rights of the
pueblo itself."
The case was brought here on writ of error, and we
said:
"And so as to certain statutes of the State of California,
which declared that the city of Los Angeles is vested with the
paramotint right to .the surface and subterranean water of the
Los Angeles river. Those statutes were admitted in evidence
merely to show that the city was the successor of the ancient
pueblo. The court held that the right of the city of Los Angeles to like froiii the Los Angeles river all of the waters of
the river to the extent of its reasonable domestic and municipal
needs was based onl the Spanish and Mexican law, and not on
the charters of the city of Los Angeles. The validity of the
statutes, on account of repugnancy to the FederalConstitution,
was not drawn in question in the trial court nor in the Supreme

Court of the State, and both courts held that they neither
granted 'to the city nor took away from plaintiffs in error any
rights or property."

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
Opinion of the Court.

This being so, the averments of deprivation or impairment
afforded no proper basis for jurisdiction, and as to section 1979
of the Revised Statutes, that was inapplicable. Holt v. Indiana Manufacturing Co., 176 U. S. 68.
In truth, the questions as to the nature and extent of complainants' titles or rights, as put forward in the bill, are not
Federal questions, but questions of state or general law.
In Hooker v. Los Angeles, supra, it was contended that the
decision of the state court against the claim of plaintiffs in
error to certain riparian rights and in certain alleged percolating waters, which rights were alleged to be derived from a
patent of the United States, and confirmed Mexican grants,
was a decision against a title, right, privilege, or immunity
claimed under the Constitution or some statute or treaty- of
the United States, and so reviewable here. But this court
held otherwise, and we said:
"Obviously, the question as to the title or right of plaintiffs
in error in the land, and whatever appertained thereto, was one
of state law and of general public law, on which the decision
of the state court was final. San Francisco v. Scott, 111 U. S.
768; Powder Works v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389. And the question
of the existence of percolating water was merely a question of
fact.
"The patents were in the nature of a quitclaim, and under
the act of March 3, 1851, were 'conclusive between the United
States and the said claimants only, and shall not affect the interests of third pesons.' The validity of that act was not
drawn in question in the state court, and as the right or title
asserted by plaintiffs in error was derived under Mexican and
Spanish grants, the decision of the state court on the claims
asserted by plaintiffs in error to the waters of the river was not
against any title or right claimed under the Constitution or any
treaty, or statute of, or commission held, or authority exercised, muder the Constitution. If the title of plaintiffs in error
were protected by the treaty, still the .suit did not arise thereunder, because the controversy in the state court did not inVOL. cci --

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

volve the construction of the treaty, but the validity of the
title of Mexican and Spanish grants prior to the treaty."
Crystal Springs Land & Water Company v. Los Angeles, 177
U. S. 169, was a bill brought in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of California, and that- court ruled, 82 Fed. Rep.
114, that where both parties claimed under Mexican grants,
confirmed and patented by the United States in accordance
with the provisions of the treaty of Guadalupe 'Hidalgo, and
the controversy was only as to what were the 'rights thus
granted and confirmed, the suit was not one arising under a
-treaty so as to confer jurisdiction on a Federal court, and that
where the only ground of Federal jurisdiction was the allegation that defendant's claim of title was based in part on certain
acts of the legislature of the State, which attempted to transfer
to it, as alleged, the title held by complainants' grantors at the
time of their passage, the court would not retain jurisdiction
when an answer was filed by defendant denying the allegations;
and disclaiming any title or claim of title not held by it before
the passage of the acts. The bill was dismissed, and we affirmed the judgment.
We there cited, among other cases, Phillips v. Mound City
Association, 124 U. S. 605, and Robinson v. Anderson, 121 Ulls.
522. In the one case it was adjudged, as stated in the syllabus,
that "an adjudication by the highest court of a State that certain proceedings before a Mexican tribunal prior to the treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo were insufficient to effect a partition
of a tract of land before that time granted by the Mexican
Government to three persons who were partners, which grant
was confirmed by commissioners appointed under the provisions of the act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, 'to ascertain
and settle the private land claims in the State of California,'
presents no Federal question which is subject to review here."
In the other, that under the act of 1875, even if the complaint, standing by itself, made out a case of jurisdiction, it
was taken away as soon as, when the answer came in, it
appeared that defendants either disclaimed all interest in the

ORTEGA v. LARA.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

land in question, or claimed title under and not adverse to that
of plaintiff. See also Boston &c. Mining Company v.. Montana
Ore Company, 188 U. S. 632, 643. There are the same disclaimers here as in the Crystal Springs case, but from what we
have heretofore said it will be seen that we are of opinion, in.
any aspect, that the bill was properly dismissed, and that the
decree to that effect must be
Affirmed.

ORTEGA v. LARA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE, UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 230. Argued April 17, 18, 1906.-Decided May 21, 1906.

Where jurisdiction of a writ of error to review a judgment of the District
Court of the United States for Porto Rico depends on amount, the judgment itself is the test and it is insufficient if for $5,000 and costs although
it carries interest.
Whenever political and legislative power over territory are transferred from
another nation to the United States, the laws of the country transferred,
unless inconsistent with provisions of the Constitution and laws of the
United States applicable thereto,. continue in force until abrogated or
changed by or under the authority of the United States-and this general rule of law was applied to Porto Rico by the Foraker Act of April 12,
1900, and that act also provided how such laws should be altered or repealed by the legislature of Porto Rico.
Article 44 of the Code of Porto Rico limiting recovery in cases of breach of
promise to the expenses of injured party incurred by reason of the promised marriage was a law of Porto Rico and not of the United States and
was subject to repeal by the legislature of Porto Rico, and, having been
so repealed prior to the breach alleged in this case, a writ of error from
this court cannot be maintained on the ground that the ruling of the
District Court that the recovery was not limited to such expenses was
a denial of a right claimed tinder a law of the United States.
The District Court of the United States for Porto Rico has jurisdiction
when the parties on both sides are subjects of the King of Spain.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

