OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

the existence of mistakes. It shows the understanding of the
executives of the two countries and affords confirmation of the
view that Congress contemplated action. subsequent to its legislation to put the treaty into effect.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case remanded with directions to affirm the order of the Board of
General Appraisers.

FRANKLIN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 652.

Argued April 27, 1906.-PDecided May 28, 1906.

United States v. American Sugar Co., ante, p. 563, followed, to effect that
the treaty of December 11, 1902, with Cuba went into effect December 27, 1903.
Under ยง 20 of the Customs Administrative Act as amended December 15,
1902, 32 Stat. 753, merchandise in bonded warehouse on which duties
are paid and permits for delivery issued to the storekeeper is thereupon
withdrawn from consumption and subject to rate of duty in force at that
time; this is not affected by the fact that the merchandise may remain
in the warehouse after such permit is issued and if directly. exported
the owner will under ยง 2977 Rev. Stat. be entitled to drawbacks.
Under ยง 20 of the Customs Administrative Act merchandise in bonded
warehouse is subject to the rate of duty in force at the time of withdrawal for consumption and not to the rate in force at time of liquidation.
Cuban sugar in bonded warehouse on which duty was paid and for which
withdrawal permits were issued and delivered to the storekeeper prior to
December 27, 1903, but which remained in the warehouse after that date
were, subject to full duty, and not entitled to the 20% reduction under
the act of December 17, 1903, and the treaty with Cuba.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

FRANKLIN SUGAR CO. v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

581

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. John E. Parsonsand
Mr. H. B. Closson were on the brief, for appellant.1
There was also a separate brief by Mr. Edward S. Hatch
and Mr. J. Stuart Tompkins in behalf of certain importers
having similar interests.
The Solicitor General for the United States.'
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was argued and submitted with No. 269.
The appellant imported and entered at the 'port of Philadelphia on September 29, 1903, certain sugars, the product of
the Republic of Cuba. The collector imposed on all the sugars
the full rate imposed by the tariff act of July 24, 1897. Permits for the removal of all the sugars for consumption from
bonded warehouse were issued to appellant before December 17, 1903, and all removed for consumption before that date
except 1,250 bags, which were removed December 28, and
3,279 bags and 67 bags of sweepings on December 29.
It is contended (1) that all of the sugars having been imported after the exchange of ratifications of the treaty between
the United States and Cuba, appellant was entitled to the
reduction of 20% of the rates of duty imposed by the act of
July 24, 1897; (2) that appellant was entitled in any event to
such reduction as to the sugar not actually removed from
bonded warehouse until after December 27, 1903. The board
of appraisers sustained the collector and the Circuit Court
affirmed the order of the board.
As to the first contention, this case is exactly like that of
United States v. American Sugar Refining Company, just decided. We decided that under the treaty between the United
I For abstracts of arguments see United States v. American Sugar Refining Company, ante, p. 563, argued simultaneously herewith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

States and Cuba and the act of Congress approved Deccmber 17, 1903, there quoted, imports from Cuba were not entitled to the reduction of the duties imposed by the act of
July 24, 1897, until Decembcr 27, 1903, the date proclaimed
by the. President of the United States and the President of
Cuba for the commencement of the operation .of the treaty.
The answer to the second contention depends upon section 20 of the Customs Administrative Act, as amended by the
act of December 15, 1902. 32 Stat. 753. Section 20 provides as follows:
"That any merchandise deposited in any public or private
bonded warehousemay be withdrawn for consumption within
three years from the date of the original importation on.payment of the duties and charges to which it may be subject by
law at the time of such withdrawal: Provided, That the saerie
rate of duty shall be collected thereon as may be imposed by
law upon like articles of merchandise imported at the time
of the withdrawal: And provided further, That nothing herein
shall affect or impair existing provisions of law ip regard to
the disposal of perishable or explosive articles."
The section needs no interpretation. It is clear that it
subjects merchandise to- the duties prescribed by law at the
time it is withdrawn for consumption. Mosle v. Bidwell, 130
Fed. Rep. 334. And our inquiry then must be, when were
the sugars in controversy withdrawn for constimption? If
before December 27, 1903, .they were dutiable under the act
of July, 1897; if after December 27, they were entitled to
20% reduction of the duties prescribed by that act.
Between September 29 and October 10 withdrawal entries
were made of the entire cargo and duties at regular rates paid
thereon. The delivery permits were lodged with the storekeeper at the same time. This put-the sugars at the absolute
disposition of the importers. It may be that the Government had the custody of them, or rather the joint custody with
the importer. Section 2960, Rev. Stat. But it was a mere
manual custody, not claiming any right over them or right to

FRANKLIN SUGAR CO. v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

detain them. Indeed it may be said that the payment of
duties and the delivery of the permit to the storekeeper operated to give up the custody which the Government had jointly
with the importer before the payment of duties. It is, however, pointed out by appellant that by section 2977, Rev.
Stat., merchandise upon which duty has been paid may remain in the warehouse, "in the custody of the officers of the
customs, at the expense and risk of the owners of such merchandise, and if exported directly from such custody to a foreign
country within three years, shall be entitled to return duties."
Whether this section covers %case where a permit has been
issued it is not necessary to decide. It is enough to say that
the section is part of the plan for the paymentof drawbacks.
The merchandise is identified by remaining in the warehouse.
Section 2978, Rev. Stat. We think, .therefore, that where
duties are paid upon merchandise and permits issued for its
removal which have been delivered to the storekeeper, it is
withdrawn for consumption and is subject to duties as of
that time.
A contention is made based on the date of ultimate liquidation of duties, which was not until after December, 1903. In
case No. 269 the effect of liquidafion was apparently urged
to be to entitle the importer to the benefit of the treaty, which
it was contended went into operation April i0, 1903, although
the act giving the treaty effect was not passed until after the
importation of the sugars. In other words, it was said "before
the duties had been liquidated; so much of the statute as imposed more than eighty per cent of the regular duties upon
these imports was repealed, and the repeal by its very terms
took effect as of a date prior to the date of the importation."
It was not necessary in No. 269 to notice tho contention, as
we decided the treaty did not go into effect until December 27,
1903. In the case at bar the date of final liquidation is seeniingly given greater force. It is. contended that "there was no
liquidatioA until after the convention was concededly in effect," and was therefore "required to be made in accordance

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

202 U. S.

with the tariff act as then in force." In other words, whether
the treaty went into effect in April or in December was unimportant, being in effect under the act of Congress when
liquidation was made it determined the rate of duty. The
proposition, if true, is decisive and makes all others in the case
valueless. Appellant submits the proposition without other
argument than its statement, and we may, therefore, reply to
it briefly. It is plainly in contradiction of section 20 of the
Customs Administrative Act as amended. That section subjects merchandise to the rate of duty in force at the time of
withdrawal for consumption, not the rate in force at the time
of liquidation. See United States v. Burr, 159 U. S. 78,,83, 84.
Judgment affirmed.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK UPON THE
RELATION OF THE NEW YORK CENTRAL AND HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. MILLER.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

SAME v. KELSEY.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 81, 82, 586, 587, 588.

Argued April 9,, 1906.-Decided May 28, 1906.

If the state statute as construed by its highest court is valid under the
Federal Constitution this court is bound by that construction.
The State of origin remains the permanent situs of personal property notwithstanding its occasional excursions to foreign parts, and a State may,
tax its own corporations for all their property in the State during the year
even if every item should be taken into another State for a period and
then brought back.
The taxation of cars under the New York franchise tax law, belonging to a

