OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

202 U. S.

with the tariff act as then in force." In other words, whether
the treaty went into effect in April or in December was unimportant, being in effect under the act of Congress when
liquidation was made it determined the rate of duty. The
proposition, if true, is decisive and makes all others in the case
valueless. Appellant submits the proposition without other
argument than its statement, and we may, therefore, reply to
it briefly. It is plainly in contradiction of section 20 of the
Customs Administrative Act as amended. That section subjects merchandise to the rate of duty in force at the time of
withdrawal for consumption, not the rate in force at the time
of liquidation. See United States v. Burr, 159 U. S. 78,,83, 84.
Judgment affirmed.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK UPON THE
RELATION OF THE NEW YORK CENTRAL AND HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. MILLER.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

SAME v. KELSEY.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 81, 82, 586, 587, 588.

Argued April 9,, 1906.-Decided May 28, 1906.

If the state statute as construed by its highest court is valid under the
Federal Constitution this court is bound by that construction.
The State of origin remains the permanent situs of personal property notwithstanding its occasional excursions to foreign parts, and a State may,
tax its own corporations for all their property in the State during the year
even if every item should be taken into another State for a period and
then brought back.
The taxation of cars under the New York franchise tax law, belonging to a

N. Y. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. MILLER.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Eior.

New York corporation is not unconstitutional as depriving the owner
of its property without due process of law because the cars are at times
temporarily absent from the State-it appearing that no cars permanently
without the State are taxed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Albert H. Harris, with whom Mr. Ira A. Place And Mr.
Thomas Emery were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The subject matter taxed, as herein complained of, is the use
and exercise of the franchise, privilege and business of transportation of persons and commodities. Ownership or possession of the corporate franchise to be or to do, do not subject
the owner or possessor to the tax.
Notwithstanding the continued existence of the corporation,
and continued existence and possession of -the corporate capacity, powers, faculties and franchises with which it was at
its creation endowed, if none of its capital is employed within
this State during the tax year, section 182 imposes no tax.
People ex rel. Singer Mfg. Co. v. Wemple, 150 N. Y. 46; People
ex rel. Niagara River Hydraulic Co. v. Roberts, 30 App. Div.
180, whih the Court of Appeals affirmed on opinion below.
157 N. Y. 676.
Exercise of the franchise is the foundation for imposition of
the tax, and the average amount of capital stock employed is
the basis of computation of the tax. People ex rel. U. V.
Copper Co. v. Roberts; 156 N. Y. 586; People ex rel. Commercial
Cable Co. v. Morgan, 178 N. Y. 433; People ex rel. Brooklyn
R. T. Co. v. Morgan, 57 App. Div. 335; aff'd 168 N. Y. 672;
People ex rel. Mutual Trust Co. v. Miller,. 177 N. Y. 51.
The use and exercise of the franchise, privilege or business
of transportation thus taxed is that of carrying on commerce
either intrastate, interstate or foreign. The general unrestricted power to contract for the transportation of persons
and property, possessed by plaintiff in error, embraced the
power not only to make contracts at places foreign to this
State, but alsQ to make contracts for such transportation to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

and from points and via routes in foreign States and countries.
Railroad Law, N. Y. § 78; Bank oj Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet.
519; Day v. 0. & L. C. R. R. Co., 107 N. Y. 129; Matter of
N. Y. L. & W. Ry. Co., 35 Hun, 220; Matter of Townsend, 39
N. Y. 171.
It is necessary to the power of taxation upon the use and
exercise of a franchise, privilege or business, that such use and
exercise thereof be carried on within the territorial domain of
the taxing sovereignty; and that the franchise, privilege or
business so there used and exercised be such as is within the
organic prerogative of that sovereignty to tax the use of.
The State grants the privilege of exercising a public franchise,
and, in consideration of that grant, exacts from those who accept and avail themselves thereof, payment, to be computed
upon the basis of the. amount of capital.
The business transacted and the functions exercised in movements of relator's cars outside of this State are primarily those
commanded and compelled by the Federal Government in its
power to regulate interstate commerce.
So far as such exercise of franchises affords warrant for state
taxation; computed upon the basis of the capital employed
therein or otherwise, and as well regarding such exercise of
franchists as is involved in the portion of car movements,
which is outside of this State, as also such exercise of franchises
as have regard to. transportation wholly outside of this"State,
the right and power of state taxation is exclusively that of the
respective States wherein the cars are thus employed. The
Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206i 232; Erie Railroad Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431, 436.
Transportation between respective points one thereof within
and the other without, or via routes in part within and in part
without, a State. is interstate or foreign commerce. State &c.
v.. Knight, 192 U. S. 21.
Refusal of observance of the rule of per annum average
of capital as the basis of assessment where the capital is
employed in interstate commerce constitutes discrimination

. N. Y. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. MILLER.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

prejudicial to such commerce, and is thus violative of the
commerce clause and the due faith and credit clause'of the
Federal Constitution.
That the car mileage basis upon lines of companies within
the State, and upon lines without the State, prima facie affords
a just basis of apportionment of average total of mail, express,
passenger, baggage and freight cars continuously employed by
other corporations without the State, and that the road mileage
operated within and without the State affords a just basis of
apportionment of average total equipment continuously employed by, within and without the State, is affirmed by this
court in numerous cases. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.
575; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530;
Pullman'sPalace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Maine
v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217; Charlotte &c. R. R. Co.
v. Gibbs, 142'U. S. 386; Columbus Southern Ry. Co. v. Wright,
151 U. S. 470; Pittsburgh &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421;
Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439; Adams Ex. Co.
v. Ohio, 164 U. S. 194; S. C., 166 U. S. 185; Am. Re/rig. Transit Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v.
Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194.
Taxation of or upon the exercise of the privilege of commerce
conducted in another State, or computed upon the capital
there so employed, whether such commerce be interstate, foreign or intrastate, transcends the jurisdiction of the taxing
State, and thus takes property without due process of law, and
denies full faith and credit to the public acts of such other
State.
The power of taxation cannot embrace either person, property or business having their situs outside the taxing State.
Jurisdiction of the person carrying on business or exercising
privilege in the State of his domicil and in other States, cannot
draw to the domiciliary State the power of taxation of business
done or privilege exercised in other States.
It is requisite to due process of law that the tribunal have
jurisdiction of the subject matter of such process. The taxing

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

authorities had jurisdiction of the person of the corporation
taxed in Phila. Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326;

Louisville-&c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385; Del., L. &
W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Union Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194. They did not, however, have jurisdiction of the subject matter of the tax, and,
therefore, the imposition of the tax was adjudged unauthorized
and void.
Absence of congressional regulation of, or restraint or burden
upon, interstate commerce, constitutes no warrant for state
regulation, restraint or burden thereof. Upon like principle,
absence of state regulation of, or restraint. or burden upon,
commerce local to such State, constitutes no warrant for another State to exercise extra-territorial jurisdiction, whereby
to impose such regulation, restraint or burden.
The mere fact that a State grants and continues corporate
life and capacity to a body corporate of its creation, constitutes,
no warrant for taxation by that State of such corporation's
tangible property having its situs beyond the territorial jurisdiction of that State, or of the corporation's capital stock invested in-that property, Del., L. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
198 U. S. 341; nor for taxation of franchises owned by such
corporation which were granted by authority foreign to, and
have their situs outside of, the territorial jurisdiction of such
State, Louisville & J. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385;
nor of franchises owned by such corporation, but which were
granted to it by the United States, Californiav. Pac..R. Co.,
127 U. S.1; nor of cars owned in excess of the average number
thereof employed in the taxing State, Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.194.
The State cannot, by conferment of corporate charter powers
:to transact business (1) outside of its territorial domain, or,
(2), of character outside the sphere of its governance, draw to
itself the power of taxation upon such exercise of the charter
powers conferred by it. People ex rel. &c. v. Wemple, 138
N. Y. 1;' People ex rel. &c. v. Roberts, 154 N. Y. 1.

N. Y. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. MILLER.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.,

The situs of exercise of the franchise pertaining to transportation upon and over any railroad, is the situs of the railroad,
and of the franchise relating thereto. The corporate franchises
exercised within the State, by domestic surface steam railroad
corporations, are those which the State has granted by charters
authorizing the building and operation of railroads within the
State.
As it is the peculiar and sole province of the United States
to prescribe what burdens the exercise of the business of interstate and foreign commerce shall be subject to, so also, for like
reason and upon like principle, it is the peculiar and sole province of each State to prescribe what burdens the exercise of
the business of its local commerce shall be subject to.
Car movements, or the exercise of franchise thereby, cannot
have an imputed situs. People ex rel. Manhattan R. Co. y.
Barker, 152 N. Y. 417.
Taxation of exercise of franchise to do can only be imposed
by the sovereignty in whose domain the work is done. Adams
Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 429; State Tax on Foreign Held Bonds, 15 Wall.
.300; Morgan V.Parham, 16 Wall. 471; Delaware Railroad Tax,
18 Wall. 206; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
196; Phila. Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326;
Erie Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 628; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Postal Tel. Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S.
688.
What is true of the franchise in this regard is true of the
lease or license under authority of which relator's cars are employed in the use of the franchise. Louisville & Jeff. Ferry
Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385.
Local commerce is subject to local tax by the State wherein
it is conducted. New York ex rel. Penn. R. R. Co. v. Knight,
192 U. S. 21, aff'g 171 N. Y. 354.

The effect of the holding of the state courts, that this statute authorizes taxation to be cbmputed upon the basis of the
capital employed in and by the average number of relator's

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

202 U. S.

cars operated outside of this State, is to subject the statute to
the rule announced by this court in Wabash &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557.
The effect of the statute, as adjudged by the New York
courts, is to tax the corporate use and exercise in other States,
of the occupation, privilege, and business, of the local commerce of those States. Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky,
188 U. S. 385; Delaware, L. & W. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
198 U. S. 341.
Mr. Julius M. Mayer, Attorney General of the State of New
York, with whom Mr. Horace McGuire was on the brief, for
defendants in error:
There was no evidence before the comptroller showing that
any portion of the rolling stock of the relator was exclusively
and continuously without the State of New York for the year
ending October 31, 1900, or any of the other years under review.
The policy of the courts has been not to disturb the findings
of the assessing officers. No system of taxation can be perfect,
and the courts have realized the practical difficulties with which
assessing officers are so frequently cbnfronted. The reasons
which have led to a conclusion or the methods of computation
have not been inquired into by- appellate courts, unless that
method offends some provision of the statute under consideration or of the state or Federal constitutions. Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 196 U. S. 599, 610; People ex rel.
Metropolitan Street Ry. Co. v. State Board of Tax Commissioners, 199 U. S. 1.
The statute under consideration does not offend against the
commercc clause of the Federal Constitution, nor does it offend
,against the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitu-ton., The term "capital stock" as used in the statute, means
the property of the corporation as distinguished from its share
capital. People ex rel. Commercial Cable Co. v. Morgan, 178
N. Y. 433.

N. Y. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. MILLER.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

As the relator did not pay six per cent upon its stock, it
therefore became necessary for the comptroller to ascertain the
value of the corporate property employed within the State,
simply as a basis of determining the per cent of tax to be
placed upon its franchise.
People ex rel. Niagara Rioer Hydraulic Company v. Roberts,
157 N. Y.676; People ex rel. Fort George Realty Company V.
Miller, 179 N. Y. 49, and People ex rel.. Singer Mg. Co. v.
Wemple, 150 N. Y. 49, have been clearly distinguished in the
last word on this subject, by the Court of Appeais of New York,
in People ex rel. Wall & Hanover Street Realty Company v.
Miller, 181 N. Y. 328.
Although that case was decided by a bare majority of the
Court of Appeals, it has been consistently followed by'a unanimous'court, which now regards that'case as authority without
further dissent in People ex rel. Nassau Co. v. Miller, 182 N. Y.
521; People ex rel. North American Co. v. Miller, 182 N. Y. 521;
People ex rel. FourteenthSt. Realty Co. v. Kelsey, 110 App. Div.
affirmed by Court of Appeals without opinion; People ex rel.
Hubert Apartment Association v. Kelsey, 110 App. Div., affirmed
by Court of Appeals without opinion.
Even if the legislature of New York determined by section 182
of the Tax Law to tax the freight cars of the relator when ternporarily outside of the State, its determination to do so and
to determine the situs of that personal property was the exercise of a legislative function with which the Federal courts will
not interfere. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575.
. The mere fact that some portion of the property of a domestic
corporation is employed in interstate or foreign commerce does
not preclude the State from taxing such property within its
borders and by proper legislative enactment to determine the
situs of such property, provided, of course,that the rights and
powers of the National Government are not interfered with.
Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph Company v. Philadelphia, 190*
U. S. 160; People ex rel. P. R. R. Co. v: Wemple, 138 N.Y. 1;
Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141, U. S. 18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

202 U. S.

There being no evidence befQre the comptroller upon which
it could be found what the value was of the rolling stock of the
relator which was claimed to be continuously employed without the State, his finding thereon is correct and was properly
approved by the Appellate Division, anid also by the Court of
Appeals, as a finding of fact upon the evidence presented to
the comptroller. Levis V.Monson, 151 U. S. 545. Such ruling
presents no Federal question. This court will not interfere to
review findings of fact or the conclusions of assessing officers
as to the value of property sought to be assessed. Kelly V.
'Pittsburgh, 104 U. S. 78.
In the case of a foreign corporation the basis of taxation is
the actual and tangible property which it uses continuously
within the borders of the State. New York ex rel. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21; Delaware, L. & W. R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341. See also Commonwealth v.
American Dredging Co., 122 Pa. St. 386.
No Federal question is presented in the several cases under.
review. This court will not interfere with a question of fact,
however erroneously it may have been determined by the trial
court. In this case the *trial court was the comptroller of the
.State; the State makes no claim to tax any of the property of
the plaintiff in error which is shown to have been permanently
or continuously without the State during the tax period.
The statute does hot purport to take, nor has the determination of the comptroller of the State of New York taken, any
of the property of the relator without due process of law.
The plaintiff in error had oppqrtunity to be heard upon the
amount of the assessment before the comptroller; the plaintiff
in error had the right to a writ of certiorari to review the determination of the comptroller, and pursued that. right through
the courts of the State of New York.
The plaintiff .in error has equal protection under, the law for
the reason that all corporations within the State of New York
similarly situaAd to the plaintiff in error are req~iired by the
same section f the statute to share in the burdeno of the State

N. Y. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. MILLER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the extent of the value of the property employedby it within
the State of New York.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases arise upon writs of certiorari, issu'ed under the
state law and addressed 'to the state comptroller for the time
being, to revise taxes imposed upon the relator for the years
1900, 1901, 1902, 1903 and 1904, respectively. The tax was
levied under New York Laws of 1896, c. 908, § 182, which, so
far as material, is as follows: "Franchise Tax on Corporations.-Every corporation . . . incorporated . . . under . . . law in this State,'shall pay to the state treasurer
annually, an annual tax to be computed upon the basis of the.
amount of its capital stock employed within this State and
upon each dollar of such amount," at a certain rate, if the dividends amount to six per cent or more upon the par value of
such capital stock. "If such diyidend or dividends amount to
less than six per centum on the par value of the capital stock
[as was the case with the relator], the tax shall be at the rate
of one and one-half mills upon such portion of the capital stock
at par as the amount of capital employed within this State
bears to the entire capital of the corporation." It is provided
further by the same section that every foreign corporation, etc.,
"shall pay a like tax for the privilege of exercising its corporate
franchises or carrying on its business in such corporate or organized capacity in this State, to be computed upon the basis
of the capital employed by it within this State."
The relator is a New York corporation owning or hiring lines
without as well as within the State, having arrangements with
other carriers for through transportation, routing and rating,
and sending its cars to points without as well as within the
State, and over other lines as well :as its own. The cars often
are ,,ut of the relator's possession for some time, aund may be
transferred to many roads successively, and even may be used
by other roads for their own independent business, before they
Ve]. 0CcI-3S

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

return to the relator or the State. In short, by the familiar
course of railroad business a considerable proportion of the
relator's cars constantly is out of the State, and on this ground
the relator contended that that proportion should be deducted
from its entire capital, in order to find the capital stock employed within the State. This contention the comptroller
I
disallowed.
The writ of certiorari in the earliest case, No. 81, with the
return setting forth the proceedings of the comptroller, Knight,
and the evidence given before him, was heard by the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court, and a reduction of ihe amount
of the tax was ordered. 75 App. Div. 169. On appeal the
Court of Appeals ordered the proceedings to be remitted to the
comptroller, to the end that further evidence might be taken
upon the question whether any of the relator's rolling stock
was used exclusively outside of the State, with directions'that
if it should be found that such was the faet the amount of the
rolling stock so used should be deducted. 173 N. Y. 255. On
rehearing of No. 81 and with it No. 82, before the comptroller,
now Miller, no evidence was offered to prove that any of the
relator's cars or engines were used continuously and exclusively outside of the State during the whole tax year. In the
later cases it was admitted that no substantial amount of the
equipment was so used during the -similar period. But in all
of them evidence was offered of the movements of particular
cars, to illustrate the transfers which they went through before
they returned, as has been stated, evidence of the relator's
road mileage outside and inside of the State, and also evidence
of the car mileage outside and inside of the State, in order to
show, on one footing or the other, that a certain proportion of
cars, although not the same cars, was continuously without the
State during the whole tax year. The comptroller refused to
make any reduction of the tax, and the case being taken up
again, his refusal was affirmed by the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court and by the Court of Appeals on the authority
;of the former decision. 89 App. Div. 127; 177 N. Y. 584.

*N. Y. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. MILLER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The later cases took substantially the same course. The relator saved the questions whether the statute as construed was
not contrary to Article 1, §8, of the Constitution of the United
States, as to commerce among the States; Article 1, § 10,
against impairing the obligation of contracts; Article 4, § 1,
as to givifig full faith and credit to the public acts of other
States; and the Fourteenth Amendment. It took out writs of
error and brought the cases here.
The argurient for the relator had woven through it suggestions which only tended to show that the construction of the
New York statute by the Court of Appeals was wrong. Of
course if the statute as construed is valid under the Constitution, we are. bound by the constrction given to it by the state
court. In'this case we are to assunm that the statute purports
and intends to allow no deduction from the capital stock taken
as the basis of the tax, unless sone specific portion of the cor-

porate property is outside of the State during the whole tax
year. We must assume, further, that no part of the corporate
property in question was outside of the State during the whole
tax year, The proposition really was conceded, as we have
said, and the evidence that was offered had no, tendency to
prove the contrary. if we are to suppose that the reports
offered in evidence were accepted as competent to establish
the facts which they set forth, still it would be going a very
great way to infer from car mileage the average number or

proportion of cars absent from the State. For, as was said by
a witness,, thereports show only that the cars made so many
miles, but it might be ten or it inight be fifty cars that made
them. Certainly no inferce whatever could be dra'wn that
the same cars were absent froln the State all the timne.
In view of what we have said it is questionable whether the
relator has offered evidence enough to open the constitutional
objections urged

against the tax.

But as it cannot be

doubted, in view of the well known course of railroad business,
that some consideralle proportion of the relator's cars always
is absent fromi

the State, it would be unsatisfactory to turn the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

case off with a merely technical answer, and we proceed. The
most salient points of the relator's argument are as follows:
This tax is not a tax on the franchise to be a corporation, but
a tax on the use and exercise of the franchise of transportation. The use of this or any other franchise outside the State
cannot be taxed by New York. The car mileage within the
State and that upon other lines without the State affords a
basis of apportionment of the average total of cars continuously employed by other corporations without the State,'and
the relator's road mileage within and without the State affords
'a basis of apportionment of its average total equipment continuously employed by it respectiVely within and without the
State. To tax on the total value within and without is beyond
the jurisdiction of the State, a taking of property without due
process of law, and an unconstitutional interference with commerce among the States.
A part of this argument we have answered already. But we
must go further. We are not curious to inquire exactly what
kind of 'a tax this is to be called. If it can be sustained by
the name given to it by th6 local courts it must be sustained
by us. It is called a franchise tax in the act, but it is a franchise tax measured by poperty. A tax very like the present
was treated as a tax on the property of the corporation in Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S.
341, 353. This seems to be regarded as such a tax by the Court
of Appeals in this case. See People v. Morgan, 178 N. Y. 433,
439. If it is a tax on any franchise which the State of New
York gave, and the same State could take away" it stands at
least no worse. The relator's argument assumes that it must
be regarded as a t ax of a particular kind, in order to invalidate it, although it might be valid if -Legarded as the state
court regards it.
Suppose, then, that the State of New York had taxed the

property directly, there was nothing to hinder its taxing the
whole of it. It is true that it has been decided that property,
even of a domestic corporation, cannot be taxed if it is perma-

N. Y. CENTRAL RAILROAD v.' MILLER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nently out of the State. Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v.
Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 201, 211; Delaware, Lackawanna,&
Western R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Louisville &
Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385. But it has
not been decided, and it could not be decided, that a State
may not tax its own corporations for all their property within
the State during the tax year, even if every item of that property should be taken successively into another State for a day,
a week, or. six months, and then brought back. Using the
language of domicil, which now so frequently is applied to inanimate things, the state of origin remains the -permanent situs
of the property, notwithstanding its occasional excursions to
foreign parts. Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, May 21,
1906, ante p. 409. See also Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v.
Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 208, 209.
It was suggested that this case is but the complement of
Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, and
that as there a tax upon a foreign corporation was sustained,
levied on such proportion of its capital stock as the miles of
track over which its cars were run within the State bore to the'
whole pumber of miles over which its cars were run, so here in
the domicil of such a corporation there should be an exemption
corresponding to the tax held to be lawfully levied elsewhere.
But in that case it was found that the "cars used in this State
have, during all the time for which tax is charged, been running
into, through and out of the. State." The same cars were
continuously receiving the protection of the State and, therefore, i.t was just that the State should tax a proportion of them.
Whether if the same amount of protection had been received
in respect of constantly changing cars the same principle would
have applied was not decided, and it is not necessary to decide
now. In the present case, however, it does not appear thiat
any specific cars or any average of cars was so continuously in
any other State as to be taxable there. The absences relied
on were not in the course of travel upon fixed routes but random excursions of casually chosen cars, determined by the

OCTOI3ER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

varying orders of particular shippers and the arbitrary convenience of other roads. Therefore we need not consider either
whether there is any necessary parallelism between liability
elsewhere and immunity at home.
Judgments affirmed.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY DISTRICT
OF CHICAGO.
No. 4, Original. Submitted May 14, 1906.-Decided May 28, 1900.

This court has power to allow costs in original actions and in any action
between States, the successful State may ask for costs or not as it sees
fit, and there is no absolute rule that in boundary cases the costs are
divided. Costs, therefore, are allowed to the defendant in this suit in
which' the plaintiff alleged serious pecuniary damage, and framed its bill
like the ordinary bill of a private person to restrain a nuisance.
The solicitor's fee of $2.50 for each witness examined before the examiner
and admitted in evidence was properly allowed as fees for depositions
under: § 824, Rev. Stat.

THE

question involved in the motion is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Erasmus C. Lindley for defendant, Sanitary District of
Chicago.
Mr. Herbert S. Hadley, Attorney General of the State of. Missouri, Mr. Charles.W. Bates and Mr. Sam B. Jefferies for corn-.
plainant.
MIt. JUSTICE IOLWS delivered the opinion of tire court.
This is a motion-for the allowance and taxation of costs in
the case reported in 200 U. S. 496. The costs asked are as

follows:
paid to the special coimissioner.
$5,650
$3,776.37 for taking down and transcribing the testimony of

defendant's witnesses, etc.

