OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

HAN-NBAL

AND

ST. JOSEPH RAILROAD COM-

PANY v. MISSOURI RIVER PACKET COMPA.NY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSODJRL
Wo.163. Argued and Submitted February 6, 1888- Decided March 19, 28S.

The act of Congress of July 25,1866, 14 Stat. 244, ยง 10 of which authorized
a bridge to be constructed across the Missouri River at the city of Kansas, required that the distance of one hundred and sixty feet between
the piers of the bridge, which was called for by the act, should be obtained by measuring along a line between said piers drawn perpendicularly
to the faces of the piers and the current of the river; and as such a line
drawn between the piers of the bridge of the plaitiin error measures
only one hundred and fifty-three feet and a fraction of a foot, instead of
the required one hundred and sixty feet, it is not a lawful structure
within the meaning of that act.
When there is any doubt as to the proper construction of a statute granting
a privilege, that construction should be adopted-which is most advantageous to the interests of the government, the grantor.
A decision by the highest court of a State upon the question whether the
mere fact that a bridge, constructed under authority derived from the
act of Congress of July 25, 1866, 14 Stat. 244,,had not been constructed
as required by the statute rendered the owner liable for injuries happening by reason of its existence to a steamboat navigating the river, irrespective of the question whether the accident was the result of the
improper construction, presents no federal question for the decision of
this court.

Tins was an action brought in-a state court of :Missounri to
recover damages for injuries to steamboats of the plaintiff
below, caused by striking upon the piers of a bridge across the
1fissouri River, constructed by the defendant. Yerdict and
judgment for plaintiff, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State. Defendant sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated m the opinion of the court.

MIr,. Wirt Dexter and Ar. Joh
error, submitted on their brief.

T HenricZ, for plaintiff in

Mr. Scaford B. I"dd for defendant in error. -Irr.eTohn C.
Gage was with hun on the brief.

HANIBAL &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PACKET CO. 261
Opinion of the Court.

Ym TusTion LAu&n delivered the opinion of the court.
Tins is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Missouri to renew a judgment of that court affimrnng a judgment of the Circuit Oourt of Jackson .County in said State
against the plaintiff m error. The action was brQught in February, 187, in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, by the
Missouri River :Packet Company, plaintiff below, against the
Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company, defendant below,
to recover damages for injuries done to two of the plaintiff's
steamboats by a railroad bridge, which had beei" erected and
maintained by defendant over the Missouri River at Kansas
City, Missouri, the piers of which and two certain structures
connected therewith, it is alleged, unlawfully obstructed the
navigation of said river.
The petition contained two counts, the first of which was
as follows:
"Plaintiff states that it is, and for the five years last past
has been, a corporation organized and created under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of Missouri, and during said
period has been and still is the owner and proprietor of numerous steamboats, including the steamboat named Alice, hereinafter mentioned, with winch it has, as such corporation, during said period ibeen engaged in navigating the waters of the
Missouri River, and conveying and transporting, by means
thereof, passengers and freight between the various towns and
cities situated on the banks of said river in the States of
Missouri and Kansas.
"That the defendant is and foi the last twer4ty years has
been a railroad corporation, organized under and by virtue of
the laws of the State of Missouri.
"That the Mlissouri River, for a long distance above the
city of Kansas, in the county of Jackson and State of Missouri,
and below said city to the mouth of said river, is a navigable
stream; that prior to the 4th day of March,.18,74, the defendant had erected, and prior thereto and on said day did keep,
and maintain, in the said river and the channel thereof, near
the southern bank thereof and near the foot of the street

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Couft..

known as Broadway, in said city of Kansas, a certain structure composed of heavy timbers and lumber fastened together;
and long prior to said day the defendant, had erected, kept,

and maintained, and did on said day keep and maintain, in
the channel of said river, in a point in said Jackson County
and opposite said city of Kansas, nearer the centre of said
river than the stracture first -above named, a certain other
structure, to wit: a crib or box built of heavy timbers 'filled
with stone, which said crib or box extended from the bed of
said river upward to a height of 30 feet or more t bove the
surface thereof, that both of said structures were and always
have been obstacles in the way of vessels passing by the same
up and down said river, and have prevented and rendered the
navigation of- said river dangerous and unsafe; that said
structures were so erected, kept, and maintained by the
defendant-.wrongfullyr wilfully, and in flagrant disregard and
violation of the rights of plaintiff and others, to the free and
unobstructed use of said river as a highway of commerce;
that before the erection of said structures the current of said
river, at and above and below the point where the same were
located and erected, had been in a line nearly parallel to the
faces of said structure, and the navigation of the same easy

and safe.
"But plaintiff states that the structureflrst above mentioned
had, on said 4th day of M[arch, 1874, caused the current of the
river at that point to change, so that it rushed with great
velocity from the point of the location of said structure m a
direction nearly at right angles to its former course towards
and against said crib or box.
"And plaintiff states that on said 4th day of Mlarch, 1871,
it was, in the course of its business, navigating said river with
its said steamboat Alice, and while attempting, in the exercise of due care and caution, to ran said boat by and between
said structures, said boat was, without any fault of this plaintiff,. by the current of the river, so changed as aforesaid, hurled
violently against said crib or box, and the water-wheel, wheelhouse, and other parts of said boat broken, injured, and dam-

aged.

HANNIBAL &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PACKET CO.

263

Opinion of the Court.

"That plaintiff was compelled to, and did, expend large
sums of money in repairing said injuries to said boat, and was,
on account of the injuries thereto, wholly deprived of the use
of the same and of the earnings thereof for the period of
thirteen days, to plaintiff's damage in the sum of twenty-five
hundred dollars, for which, with interest from the 1st day of
April, 1874, plaintiff prays judgment against the defendant."
The second count was in substantially the same forn, and
alleged an injury to the St. Luke, another of plaintiff's vessels,
occurring on the 15th day of September, 1874, and prayed
judgment on account thereof in the sum of $ 3000.
To this petition tho defendant below first interposed a plea
to the jurisdiction of the court, alleging.that the structures
complained of, and each of them, were at the time of the
injuries alleged in plaintiff's petition, and still are, a part of a
bridge across the Missouri River at Kansas City, authorized
by the act of Congress approved July 25, 1866, and constructed
under and in accordance with the terms and provisions of saidact by the Kansas City and Cameron Railroad Company, of
which the defendant company below is the successor; that said
bridge was wholly situated at the time of the injuries alleged
in plaintiff's petition, and still is wholly situated, within the
jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States for
the Western District of Missouri, and that, by reason of the
premises stated, said District Court. has exclusive jurisdiction
over the subject matter of this action.
This plea, having been overruled by the court, and exceptions duly saved; the defendant answered. The answer consisted of (1) a general denial, and (2) a special defence, which
latter was pleaded as a full and complete bar to the cause of
action alleged in the petition, and is in substance as follows:
That at the time of the injury con plamed of in plaintiff's
petition, the defendant was, for a long thnc prior thereto had
been, and still is, a corporation duly organized under the laws
of the State of Missouri, and, as sucn corporation, acting as it
was authorized to do by the terms, of its charter, it had constructed a railroad from the town of Hannibal, in the State of
Missouri, to the town of 6t. Joseph, in said State, and has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon ot the Court.

ever since maintaining and operating said railroad; that the
Kansas City and Cameron Railroad Company, a corporation
duly organized under the laws of the State of Missouri, as it
was authorized to do by he terms of its charter, had constructed a railroad from the north bank of the Missouri River,
opposite said city of Kansas, to Cameron, on the Hannibal
and St. Joseph Railroad; that Congress, by an act approved
July 25, 1866, authorized the construction of a bridge across
the Missouri River at or near Kansas City, and the Kansas
City and Cameron Railroad Company, availing itself of this
privilege, between the passage of said act of Congress and the
4th day of July, 1869, did construct such bridge at Kansas
City; that the Kansas City and Cameron Pailroad Company
afterwards, to wit, on the 4th day of February, 1870, consolidated with the defendant company, whereby the defendant
bFcame the owner and proprietor of said bridge; that said
bridge was and is-a pivot draw-bridge, with a draw over the
main channel of saad Missouri River at an accessible and navigable point, ad with spans of 160 feet- in the clear on each
side of the pivot pier of the draw, and the next adjoining
spans tQ the draw were and are 30 feet above, low-water mark
and 1Q feet .above high-water mark, measuring to the bottom
chord of said bridge, and the piers of said bridge were, at the
times of location and construction thereof, parallel with the
current of the said river; that the obstacles and obstructions
(the "structures) described in plaintiff's petition, and each of
them, were at that time, and still are, parts and parcels of said
bridge, and were and are necessary to the safe and secure
maintenance of said bridge; that said bridge, ever since its
completion, has been a post route, and that, by reason of the
premises aforesaid, said bridge, ever since its completion, has
been and still is a lawful structure, and, if plaintiff has sustained any damage in consequence thereof, it has been without
any fault on the part of defendant, and the defendant is not
legally liable therefor.
Plaintiff in its reply specifically denied every material allegation set up in the special defence of the defendant, and upon
tins state of the pleadhigs the case was tried by a jury, result.

HANNIBAL &c. RAILROA)

CO. v. PACET CO. 265

Opinon of the Court.

ing in a verdict for plaantiff below on the first count in its
petition, for $24:00, and on the second, for $2900 -in all $5300
-upon wich judgment was rendered.
rlaintiff thereupon excepted a~nd appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State of Missouri, relymg mainly upon the question of jurisdiction in the court below, and upon certain alleged
improper and illegal instructions given to the jury. The
Supreme Court of the State, upon the questions material to a
review of the case by this court, held, (1) That the Circuit
Court of Jackson County, in winch this action waslcommenced,
had concurrent jurisdiction with the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Missouri in the case,
and that therefore the plea to the jurisdiction was properly
overruled by the Circuit Court; (2) That, while the piers of
the bridge were constructed parallel with the current of the
river as required by the act of Congress, in determuiing
whethe~r the spans of the bridge on each side of the pivot pier
were 160 feet in length in the clear, as required by the act,

the measurement should be made at right angles with the current, and not along the structure itself or on the line of the
structure, and, inasmuch as the spans so measured were but
153 feet and a fraction in length, that therefore the structure
causing the accident was not a lawful one.
The act of Congress-, approved July 25, 1866, givmg permission for the construction of the bridge under consideration, is
found in volume 14 of the Statutes at Large, page 2,4, and the
sections thereof material to a correct determination of the issue
here are quoted in full below.
Section 1 provides for the erection of a bridge across the
]Mfhssissippi River at Qmncy, Illinois, and for the laying of railroad tracks on.and over the same, etc. "And in case of any
litigation arising from any obstruction or alleged obstruction
to the free navigation of said river, the cause may be tried
before the District Court of the United States of any State in
which any portion of-said obstruction or bridge touches."
" SEo. 2. And be itfu .ther enacted, That any bridge built
under the provisions of this act may, at the option of the company building the same, be built as a draw-bridge, with a pivot

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
OpImon of the Court.

or other form of draw, or with unbroken or continuous spans:
_Piovidcd, That if the saad bridge shall be made with unbroken
and continuous spans, it shall not be of less elevation- inany
case than fifty feet above extreme high-water mark, as understood at the point of location, to the bottom chord of the
bridge, nor shall the spans of said bridge be less than two
hundred and fifty feet in length, and the piers of said bridge
shall be parallel with the current of the river, and the main
span shall be over the main channel of the river, and not less
than three hundred feet in length And provided a7o, That
if any bridge built under this act shall be constructed as a
draw-bridge, the same shall be constructed as a pivot drawbridge with a draw over the main channel of the river at an
accessible and navigable point, and with spans of not less than
one hundred and sixty feet in length in the clear on each side
of the central or pivot pier of the draw, and the next adjoining
spans to the draw shall not be less than two hundred and fifty
feet; and said spans shall not be less than thirty feet above
low-water mark, and not less than ten above extreme highwater mark, measuring to the bottom chord of the bridge, and
the piers of said bridge shall be parallel with the cii at of
the river: Andl prov ded ao, That said draw shall b, opened
promptly upon reasonable signal for the passage of boats
whose construction shall not be such as to admit*of their passage under the permanent spans of said bridge, except when
trains are passing over the same; but in no case shall unnecessary delay occur in opening the said draw during or after the
passage of trains.
"SEc. 3. And b.it
e further enae d, That any bridge cons'ructed under tis act, and accordini- to its limitations, shal
be a lawful structure, and shall be recognized and known as a
post route; upon which, also, no higher charge shall be made
for the transmission over the same of the mails, the troops, and
the munitions of war of the United States, than the rate per
mile paid for their transportation over the railroads or public
highways leading to 'he said bridge."
"SEc. 10. And be it further enactec7, That any company
anthorized by the legislature of Mfissouri may construct a

HANNIBA

&c. RAILROAD CO. v. PACKET CO. 26r
OpImon of the Court.

bridge across the Missouri River, at the city of Kansas, upon
the same terms and conditions provided for in this act."
The material facts in this case, as set forth clearly and dis.
tmctly in the frank and able brief of counsel for plaintiff in
error, are as follows:
"The undisputed evidence showed that the bridge was a
pivot draw-bridge; that its piers were parallel with the current of the river, but that they were n.ot at right angles with
the current, and ranged diagonally across it; that as a consequence the superstructure of the bridge, erected on the piers,
ran diagonally across the current of the river at an angle of
18 degrees, that measuring the spans between the piers,
along the line or chord of the bridge, gave a distance of over
160 feet; that the open space between the piers, at low-water
mark, measured on the line of the bridge structure, was also
over 160 feet; but that a line measured at right angles with
the current was only 153 feet and a fraction. It also appeared
that the draw-bridge, when swinging open to permit the
passage of boats, rested upon two timber structures, called
upper and lower draw-rests, which had for their foundation.
cribs sunk in the river and filled with rock. There was also
an ice-breaker in front of the upper draw-rest, and forming a
part of it. The draw-rests were connected with the pivot pier
by cribs sunk in the water. These draw-rests, thus connected
with the pivot pier, were situated near the middle of the river,
parallel with the current, and all talen together extended up
and down-the river about the length of the draw, and were
necessary parts of the structure. The upper draw-rest, with.
its ice-breaker Attached, was what the petition designated as
'a certain other structure, to wit: a crib or box, built of
heavy timbers filled with stone,' and was the structure with
which the steamer came in collision. The evidence also
tended to show that near the river bank, on the south side of
the south draw opening, a row of pontoons was placed, extending from pier I-To. 1, up the V'iver about 340 feet to the
shore, pier No. I being about sLty-five feet from the Kansas
City shore, and being the pier on which the south end of the
draw xested when in position. These pontoons were con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opninon of the Court.

structed of a number of fiat boats from fifty-three to sixty-five
feet in length, and from eighteen to twenty feet in width,
chained together, so that their outer edge presented a straight
line next to the channel. On the trial it was not claimed that
these pontoons were any part of the bridge. They constituted
what the petition called Ia certain structure composed of
heavy timbers and lumber fastened together,' near the southern bank of the river. It further appeared that the pontoons
remained floating and in position until the latter part of the
winter of 1873-4, when they sank
The evidence for the
plaintiff tended to show that they sank transversely, or in a
direction quartering out into the river; that there was a crosscurrent, starting from near the south shore, above the head of
the pontoons and running diagonally across the river, in the
direction of the upper draw-rest; and that while the boats
were attempting to pass the draw-bridge, in charge of skilful
pilots, exercising ordinary care and skill, they were caught by
the cross-current and hurled against the upper draw-rest and
injured thereby. On -the other hand, the testimony for the
defendant tended to show that no such cross-current existed,
and that the injury to the boats occurred solely by reason of
want of due care and skill of the pilots in the management of
the boats."
The Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, in affirining
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Jackson County, also
-ruled clearly that the distance of 160 feet between the piers of
the bridge required by the act of Congress should be obtained
by measuring along a line between said piers drawn perpendicular to the faces of the piers and the current of the river;
and that as such line would measu-e but 153 feet and a fraction instead of 160 feet as required, the bridge was not a lawful stracture within the meaning of the act.
The substance of the errors assigned and relied on here,
relate (1) to the construction given by the state court to the
second section of the act of July 25, 1866; and (2) to the
ruling of the Supreme Court of the State, approving the
giving of plarntiff's instruction No. 1. The plaintiff in error
makes no contention here as to the question of jurisdiction

HANNIBAL &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PACKET CO. 269
Opinion of the Court.

urged in its behalf in the state courts, but, on the contrary,
expressly states that it agtees with the decision of the Supreme Court of the State upon that.question.
The sole question, therefore, for our decision relates tQ thb
construction given by the state court to that part of the act of
Congress defining the manner in wnch the bridge'should be
built; i.e., that the distance of 160 feet between the piers of
the bridge, required by said act, should be obtained by measuring along a line between said piers, drawn perpendicularly
to the faces of the piers and the current of the river, and that
as such line would measure but 153 feet and a fraction, instead
of 160 feet, as required, the bridge was not a lawful structure.
It is strenuously urged by the counsel for plaintiff in error
that the bridge we are considering meets the express requirements of the statute; that the word " spans," as used m the
statute, means the structures or parts of the bridge which span
the river on each side of the pivot pier, and it is these spans
which the statute says shall measure 160 feet in lengtk in the
clear on each side of the central or pivot pier of the draw; and
that the bridge having been constructed according to the requirements of the statute, in its own words, is therefore a legal
structure; that the Supreme Court of ]issouri, in declaring
that "Cwe must look to the spirit and reason of the act, the
purpose of which manifestly was to reserve for the purposes of
navigation 160 feet of open space in the clear, wholly unobstructed, and available for the passage of vessels," ignored the
plain language of the provision, and inferred an intention contrary to that language; that there was nothing whatever in
the statute to show any nitenti.on on the part of Congress to
reserve 1C160 feet of open space in the clear, -wholly unobstructed;" and that the act nowhere defines the precise direction of the bridge, but intrusted that direction to the discretion of the company.
We do not consider this sound reasoning. The statement
that there is nothing whatever in the statute'to show any intention on the part of Congress to reserve "1160 feet of open
space in the clear wholly unobstructed" is repelled by every
provision in the act specifying the dimensions of the various

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opnnon of the Court.

parts of the structure. The fact that Congress prescribed in
said act such minute details concermng the manner in which
the proposed bridge should be built, -the requirement that it
should be constructed with a draw over the main channel of
the. river at an accessible and navigable pomt, the provision
that the piers of said bridge should be parallel with the current of the river, that prescribing the height of the spans above
the surface of the water-and the very-rigid directions as to the
opening of the draw upon reasonable signals, without delay,
fdr the passage of boats, show how careful Congress was in
'preserving these navigable rivers as highways of commerce,
and in guarding the interests, of the public, and especially of
those engaged in navigating the rivers that would be spanned
by the structures authorized by said act.
We concur with the court below that we must look to the
spirit and reason of this provision of the law, and constru6 it
-withreference to,its evdent'purpose to connect with the exercise of the privileges therein granted such limitations as wil
guarantee protection to the navigating interests affected by the
proposed legislation. Can it be said that the object and purpose of dle law was simply that a bridge should be built across
the Missouri :River at Kansas City for the beneft of the railroad company alone - Manifestly not, for in that case it would
have been ohly necessary to grant the privilege 6f building E
bridge at the place designated without any limitation or condition as to its mode of construction, except suqhJ as the discretion of the company might determine.
In what we have said we do not wish to be understood as
assenting to the'proposition that the strict letter of the statute
,supports the contention of the plaintiff in error. The word
"span" does not, even in architecture, always mean a part of
a structure. It is, perhaps, as often used to denote the distance or space between two columns. Such is the obvious
import of the term as used in the act under consideration, not
inerely as- a part of the structure itself, but the measure of the
distance between the piers of the bridge-the nieasure of the
space left open for navigation purposes. A similar provision
to this may be found in an act of thie Illinois legislature author-

RAN iBAL &c.. RAILROAD .CO. v. -PACKET CO. 271
Opinion of the Court.

izing the construction of a bridge across a river, and the word
"space" is used, where m this act we have the word "span."
It is said that the act nowhere defines the piecise direction
of the bridge, but leaves that to the discretion of the company.
The answer to this is, that by the express terms of the act of
Congress the piers of"the bridge across the river are required
to be placed parallel with the current. To the word "across,"unless it is qualified by some prefix as diagonaZly or obuqiuel4,
th.ere is attached, in ordinary use, but one nening, and that
is a direction opposite to length. This is .esprially true
when it is used in connection with parallel lines. When the
piers are placed parallel with the current of the river- they are
parallel with one another, and the faces of the piers may properly be considered as so many parallel planes. The spans -of
the bridge are to be less than 160 feet in length, in the clear
on eaol 8adc of the pivot pier of the draw- that is, from: the
face of.the central pier to the face of the next adjacent pier
must be a distance of not less than 160 feet in the clear. Now,
it is an elementary principle of mathematics that "the distance
between two parallel planes is measured on a perpendicular
to both."
But if there be any doubt as.to the proper construction of
this statute, (arid we think there is none,) then that construction must be adopted which is most advantageous to the interests
of the government. The statute being a grant of a privilege,
must be construed most strongly in favor of the grantor.
6ildort v. Gladstone,12 East, 668;, 6M5; C9harles River Bridge
v. Warren, Bridge, 11 Fet. 420, 544; -Dubugue and _Pacif.
Railroadv. -_itckleld,23 How. 66; Th e Binghamyton.JBrdge,
3 Wall. 51, 75; Rite v. Railroad Co., I Black, 358, 380;
.Leavenworth, Lawrence and Galveston Railroad v. United
Btat, 92 U. S. 733; Fertilizing Co. v. ifyde Park, 97 U. S.
659.
As pergiiasive authority in support of the conclusion we have
reached with reference to this bridge, may be cited the case of

Columbmus Inurance Co. v. PeoriaBridpe Co., 5 lZan, '10;
also tle case of .7imour River -Packet Co. v. HannibaZ and
St. JosepA Bailroad,1 MVfcCrary, 281, the latter being a decis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ion of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Missouri in a case between the identical parties to
this-suit and concermng this identical bridge.
In this last case, Judge McCrary says: "If it be granted
that a measurement along a line which deviates froln a course
directly across the channel is ihe proper one, then it would
follow that the actual passage way might be less than that
required by the act. .The greater the deviation from such a
direct line, the less would be the available space between the
piers.

Such a construction of the act would defeat the main

purpose which Congress had in view in its enactment."
We are therefore of the opinion that the Supreme Court of
the State of Missouri committed -no error in its construction
of the act of Congress under consideration.
A reversal of the 'udgment brought here for review is also
asked upon the ground that the Supreme Court of Missouri
erred in sustaining the Circuit Court of Jackson County in giving to the jury what is called- "Plaintiff's Instruction No. 1."
This instruction is as follows:
"C
The jury are instructed that unless the bridge mentioned
in the answer had piers which were parallel with the current
of the river, and spans of not less than 160 feet in the clear on
each side of the pivot pier, then said bridge is an illegal structure and an unlawful obstruction to the navigation of the
Missouri River; and if the jury believe from the evidence that
it was not such a bridge, and further believe that the plaintits
boats, Alice and St. Luke, or either of them, while attempti-g
to pass through the ch'aw of the bridge in charge of pilots
exercising usual and ordinary care, struck the draw-rest of the
bridge, and were thereby damaged, then the jury will- find
their verdict for the plaintiff as to suchboat or boats."
It is said that by sustaining tis instruction the Supreme
Court of Missouri held.,that the mer'e fact that the bridge had
not been constructed as required by the statute rendered the railroad company liable, irrespective of the question whether the
improper construction caused the accident; and it is urged that
such holding is erroneous.
Tins, however, does not present any federal question for

UNITED STATES v. SAN JAC iTO TIN CO.

9273

Syllabus.

the consideration of this court, and therefore we decline to
exaine into its merits. .Murdock v. City of _iempkis, 20
Wall. 590, Allen v. ilXc 7j-eg, 1011 .U.S. 433.
'Upon the only questions in this cale cognizable by this court,

the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of

UNITED STATES v. SANT JAOINTO TIl
.APPEAL Fi iOMa

EiMssouri is
Af4i-rmed.

COMPANY.

THE OIRCUI COURT OF THE MUITED STA.TES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CALWORNIA-

2To. 887. Argued January 26, 27, 30, 1S.-Decided lfarch 19, 18M.
A suit may be brought by the United'States in any court of competent juris.
diction to set aside, cancel, or annul a patent for land issued in Its name,
on the ground that it was obtained by fraud or mistake.
The initiation and control of such a suit lies with the Attorney General as
the head of one of the Executive Departments.
But the right to bring such a suit exists only when, the government has an
interest m the remedy sought by reason of its interest in the land, or the
fraud has been practised on the government and operates to its prejudice,
or it is under obligation to some individual to make Ins title good by setting aside the fraudulent patent, or the duty of the government tb the
public requires such action.
When it is apparent that the only purpose of bringing the suit is to bencft
one of two claimants to the land, and the government has no interest in
the matter, the suit must fail.
In the case before us the alleged fraud, for winch it is sought to annul the
patent, is in the survey of a confirmed Mexican grant, on which the
patent was issued; and it is charged that at the time.the survey was
made the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the Surveyor General
for California, the chief clerk of the latter's office, and the deputy who
made the survey, were interested in the ownership of the grant, and by
fraud made a false location of the land to make it contain valuable ores
of tin not :witlun Its limits if fairly surveyed.
Of all the officers here charged only Conway, the chief clerk, had any real
interest In the claim, and he notified the Surveyor General of Ins interest,
and refused to have anything to do with the survey; it is nowhere shown
that he in any manner mfluenced the location of the survey, and it is
denied under oath by all who took part in making it.
The fact is much relied on that some of these officers, after the pafent was
issued, took shares in a joint stock corporation organized to work the
VOL. cxxv-18

