OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

EIARTRAI\FT v. LAlRGFELD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
RASTERI

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF PENFSYLVAFIA.

io. '750. Argued February 15, 1888.-DecIded Mareh 19,1888.

Velvet ribbons made of silk and cotton, silk being the material of chief
value, known as "trimmings," chiefly used for making or ornamenting
hats, bonnets, and hoods, but sometimes used for trimming dresses,
being imported into the United States, are sub3ect to a duty of twenty
per centum ad valorem under Schedule M of the act of March 3, 1883, 22
Stat. 512, as "- hats and so forth, materials for
trimmngs;" and
not to a duty of fifty per centum ad valorem under Schedule L of that act,
Ib. 510, as - goods, wares, and merchandise not specially enumerated or
-provided Io- in thiS act, made of silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value."

Tis was an action to recover customs duties alleged to
have been illegally exacted. Judgment for plaintiffs. Defendant sued out this writ of error. The ease is stated in the
opinion of the court.
ff1T. &oliemto, GeneraZ for plaintiff m error.
36,. Josevl H. Choate for defendants in error. .3fr. Henry
.Edwin Tremain, AJD Mlason 17 f/ler and XM'r H. T. ingsor
were with hun on the brief.
MR. J"usTioE tATTirEws delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action against the collector of the port of
Philadelphia by importers to recover an alleged illegal excess
of duties exacted by and paid to him. There was a. verdict
for $856.56 in favor of the plaintiffs, and judgment rendered
thereon, to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted.
The goods which were the subject of the duty were velvet
ribbons made of silk and cotton, of which silk was the material of chief value. The custom-house officers assessed upon
them a duty of fifty per centum a4 valorem under the last

HARTRANFT v. LANGFELD.
Opinion of the Court.

paragraph of Schedule L of the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat.
c. 121, 488, 510, which reads as follows: "AM goods, wares,
-and merchandise not specially enumerated or provided for in
this act, made of silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value, fifty per centum ad -valarem." The plaintiffs claimed, and the jury found, under the instructions of the
court, that the duty should have been assessed under the following paragraph of Schedule M of the same act, 22 Stat. c.
121, 488, 512:
"Hats and so forth, materials for: Braids, plaits, flats,
laces, trimmings, tissues, willow-sheets, and squares, used for
making or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods, composed of
straw, chip, grass, palm leaf, willow, hair, whalebone, or any
other substance or material not specially enumerated or pro" alorem."
vided for in this act, twenty per centum ad
A bill of exceptions sets out all the evidence in the cause,
together with the charge of the court to the jury, and instructions asked for by counsel on both sides, respectively, with the
exceptions to certain parts of the charge as given, and to the
refusal of the court to charge as requested by counsel for
the defendant.
It appears from the evidence that the goods in question
were "trimmings,!' and that they were "used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods." That they were "trimmings," was not a matter of controversy; all the witnesses
on both sides spoke of them- as such. Neither was it disputed
that they were "used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods," but there was no evidence that they were
used exclusively for that purpose. The testimony on the part
of the plaintiffs tended to show that they were chiefly used
for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods, but that
they also might be, and sometimes were, used for trimming
dresses. The testimony on the part of the defendant tended
to show that they were dress trmmigs equally with hat
trimmings, and were commonly used as much for the one
purpose as the other. Th. this state of the proof the judge
charged the jury as follows:
"It is the use to which. these articles are chiefly adapted,
VOL. Cx--XV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and for which they are used, that determines their character
-within the meaning of this clause of the tariff act. It would
in my judgment be a fair construction of the meaning of this
act to, say that because certain articles are indifferently
adapted for use for different purposes either of these purposes
may determine the rate of duty. It is the predominant use
to which articles are applied that determines their character.
It certainly could not have been the intention of Congress in
framing this clause of the law to admit the importation, at a
low rate of duty, of articles which may be used .for. certain
purposes, but winch are used chiefly for another and different
purpose.
"You will therefore determine to which use these articles
in question are chiefly devoted. If they are hat trimmings,
and used for making and ornamenting hats, then the rate of
duty imposid was excessive, and the plaintiff is entitled to
recover the excess.
"If, however, in the determination of this question of fact,
you find the articles to be chiefly used for other purposes, you
will find for the defendant. The question is sunply and purely
one of faot, namely, What is the predominant use-to -which
these articles are devoted? As you determine that question
you will returs your verdict."
The plaintiffs had requested the judge to charge the jury as
follows"
"I. That if the jury find the goods in question are used for
maling or ornamenting hats, their verdict should be for plaintiff.
"II. That where the articles are named or described in one
section of the tariff act and a-duty so imposed thereon, general
terms in the same act, although sufficient t6 comprehend such
articles, by which a higher rate of duty is fixed, are not applicable to it, and will not prevail to make such higher rate of
duty, and, that if the jury find the goods in question are hat'
trimmings used for making or ornamenting hats, and also find
that silk is the component material of chief value, the verdict
should .be for the plaintiff.
"IIL That the clause im-osing a duty on hat trimmings

HARTRAXFT v. LANGFELD.
Opinion of the Court.

being subsequent in the act to the clause imposing a duty on
articles of which silk is the component material of chief value,
if the jury find the goods are hat trimmings used for making
or ornamenting hats, and also that they are articles of which
silk is the component material of chief value, that the subse-

quent clause imposing the duty at twenty per cent should be
taken as showing the latest and final intent of the law-makers,
and the verdict should be for the plaintiff.
"IV. That if the jury find the goods in question are.
known and ued as hat trimmings, used for making or ornamienting hats, although they may be- used from time to time
for other purposes, their verdict should be for the plaintiff."
In reply to these requests the judge said to the jury as
follows:
"1. If the evidence shows that the goods upon which the
duty was charged are adapted to use and are used for various
purposes other than for trimming hats, the jury must be satisfied that the use to which they are chiefly applicable and fol
which they were employed was m making or ornamenting
hats, to bring them within the scope of the clause of the tariff
act imposing a duty qf twenty per cent.
"2, 3 and 4. Subject to the qualifications stated in the foregoing answer to the first point, the three remaining points are
affirmed."
The counsel for the defendant requested the judge to charge
the jury as follows:
"I. That if the jury should find that the goods in question
are not specially enumerated or provided for, and that the silk
is the compionent material of chief value, then the rate of duty
should be fifty per centum ad vaorem, and your verdict should
be for the defendant.
"II. That if the jury should find that silk is the component
material of chief value of the goods in question, and that they
are suitable for and are occasionally used for hat trimmings,
but that they are generally used for other purposes, then, as
they are not exclusively or specially used for hat trimmings,
they cannot be said to be 'used for makmng or ornamenting
hats' within the meaning of the act of Congress so as to sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

ject them to a duty of twenty per centum ad vaZore,

and

your verdict should be for the defendant.

"III. That if the jury should find that the goods in question can properly be classified under Schedule Mf, act NMarch 3,
1883, as 'trinmings used for making or ornamenting hats,'
not specially enumerated or provided for in said act, and
subject to a duty of twenty per centum ad valo.rm, and can
also properly be classified as goods not specially enumerated
or provided for, of which silk is the component material of
chief value, and subject to a duty of fifty per celitum aZ valo--remn, then, as two rates of duty are applicable to the goods,
they should be classified as- subject to a duty of fifty per
centum, as this is the higher rate, and your verdict should be
for the defendant.
"IV. That unless the jury should find that the goods in
question are not specially provided for, and that by their style
and character they are fitted only for use or making or ornamenting hats, then your verdict should be for the defendant."
The court declined to give these instrqctions and the counsel for the defendant excepted as follows:
111. Because the judge declined to charge as requested in
defendant's first, second, and-fourth points, stating that those
points were substantially covered by the answers to the plaintiffs' points.
"2. Because the judge declined to cha 'ge as requested in the
defendant's third point.
"3. Because the judge charged the jury that Iif the evidence shows that the goods upon which the duty was charged
are adapted to use and are used for various purposes other
than for trimming hats, the jury must be iatisfied that the
use to which they are chiefly applicable *andfor which they
are employed was in making or ornamenting hats, to bring
them within the scope of the clause of the tariff act imposing a duty of twenty per cent.' And that, 'subject to the
qualifications stated in the foregoing answer to the firsf point,
the three remaining points are affirmed."
In support of these exceptions, it is argued by the Solicitor
General, that the charge of the court and the answers to

HARTRAN1FT v. LANGFELD.
Opinion of the Court.

the points of instruction requested by the respective counsel,
misled the jury from the real point involved in the case to a
foreign issue, by substantiallyinstructing it, that the inquiry
was whether these materials had a predominant use for
making and ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods, whereas
the true construction of the statute required that the mquiry,
which should have been submitted to the jury, was whether
the materials imported were "braids, plaits, fiats, laces, trimcomposed of straw,
.
.
mings, willow-sheets and squares,
.
. used for malng or ornamenting hats, bonnets,
chip,

and hoods." The instruction of the court, it is said, was that
any material, of which the predominant use was for the
making or ornamenting of hats, bonnets, and hoods, not
specially provided for, should be classified under this clause.
It is contended that "the true construction is that the use of
the material must not only be for making and ornamenting
hats, bonnets, and hoods, but it must be in some of the forms
fixed in the statute; that is, in the form of either 'braids,
plaits, flats, laces, trimmings, tissues, willow-sheets, or squares.'
But this is an entire misconception of the charge of the
court. There was no controversy in the evidence as to
whether these velvet ribbons were or were not "trimmings"
All the witnesses agreed that they were; it was so assumed
throughout the case; it was expressly stated in the charge of
the court to the jury that they must be "trimmings" within
the sense of the section in order to justify a recovery. The
court said expressly in its charge: "If they are hat trimmings,
and used for maling and ornamenting hats, then the rate of
duty imposed was excessive, and the plaintiff is entitled to
recover the excess." This necessarily implied that if they
were not hat trimmings, the plaintiffs could not recover; and
also that even if they were hat trimmings, but were not chiefly
used for malng and ornamenting hats, the plaintiffs would
not be entitled to recover, because in the sentence immediately
preceding in the charge, the court had said to the jury: "You
will, therefore, determine to which use these articles in question are chiefly devoted." What the court charged the jury,
therefore, was that in order to entitle the plaintiffs to -.ecover,

OCTOBER TERV , 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

they must find that the velvet ribbons in question were 1trimimngs" used for making and ornamenting hats, and that they
were "chiefly" used for that purpose. The jury were told
"If, however, in the determination of this- question of fact,
you find the articles to be chiefly used for other purposes,
you will find for the defendant. The question is simply and
purely one of fact, namely, What is the predominant use to
which these articles are devoted? As you determine that
question, you will return your verdict." The objection, therefore, to the charge of the court, that it would have authorized
a recovery if the goods in question were materials used for
making or ornamenting hats, although not coming within the
enumeration of the section as "braids, plaits, flats, laces, trimmings, tissues, willow-sheets and squares," is not well taken.
The court in fact did instruct the jury that they must find
the goods in question to be "trimmings" chiefly used for
making and ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods, composed
of a material not otherwise specially enumerated or provided
for. It is not suggested that the velvet ribbons are specially
mentioned as subject to a duty l5y that name or description.
It is true that there was no evidence showing that the exclusive
commercial designation of such velvet ribbons was "trimmigs," but all the witnesses spoke of the velvet ribbons in
question as 1trinmmngs," manifestly according to the natural
meaning of the word, and because they were used to trin
either hats or dresses; the real controversy being for which
purpose as "trimmings" they were principally used.
A further criticism, by way of objection, is made to that
part of the charge excepted to wherein the judge states that
"the jury must be satisfied that the use to which they (the
goods) are chiefly applicable, and for which they were employed, was m making or ornamenting hats,"' &c. The point
of this criticism is that the language, "a n d for which they
were employed," "would require the collector to suspend the
assessment until he should know how the goods were used or
employed. That use or employment of the goods might not
take place for years after the importation was made. The law
clearly did not intend fihe classification should he required to

flARTRANFT v. LANGFELD.
Opinion of the Court.

await such an uncertain event." This is hypercritical The
language does not admit of any such construction. It means
for which they were habitually employed, or customarily employed, or usually employed, and not "for which they had been
employed." It is impossible that any jury could have other-wise understood the instruction..
The remaining, exception was on account of the refusal of
the court to instruct the jury as requested by the counsel for
the defendant in the third point, viz: "That if the jury should
find that the goods in'question can properly be classified under
Schedule 31, act March 3, 1883, as I trimmings used for making
or'ornamenting hats,' not specially enumerated or provided for

in said act, and subject to a duty of twenty per centumn ad
valorem, and can also properly be classified as goods not specially enumerated or provided for, 9f which silk is the component material of chief value, and subject to a duty of fifty per
centum ad vorem, then, as two rates of duty are. applicable
to the goods, they should be classified as subject to a duty of
fifty per centum, as this is the higher rate, and -your verdict
should be for the defendant." The section of the Revised
Statutes upon which this instruction was framed is ยง 2499,
which provides: "If any non-enumerated article equally
resembles two or more enumerated articles on which different
rates of duty are chargeable, there shall be levied, collected,
and paid on such non-enumerated article the same rate of
duty as is chargeable on the article which it resembles paying
the highest duty." The prInciple of this section, however, is
not applicable to the circumstances of this case. The velvet
ribbons were found by the jury to be trinmings chiefly used
for making or ornamenting hats; that brought them within
the operation of Schedule M of the act of March 3, 1883, fixing the duty at twenty per centum ad valorem; and being
specially provided for by that section, they were excluded from
the operation of all-others.
The contention which appears to have been made on behalf
of the government on the trial of the cause, that these velvet
ribbons could not be classified as trimmings used for making
or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods, within the meaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

of the section levying the duty of twenty per centum ad val2'em, unless they were shown to have been used exclusively for
that purpose, is not insisted upon by the Solicitor General in
this court. It was very properly abandoned, the charge of the
court upon that point being, in our opinion, clearly right.
The judgment of the 0ircuit Court is accordingly
Afflmmd-

TILG

AN v. PROCTOR.

PROCTOR v. TILGHMANI.
.APPEAS FRSOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THEl UNITED
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

STATES FOR

Nos. 537, 545. Argued November, 3,4, 5, 188G.-Declded March 19, 1888.

One having an interest in all fees and other sums to be recovered under a
patent, but not shown to have any interat, legal or equitable, in the
patent itself, need not be made a party to a bill in equity for its infringement.
Upon a bill in equity by the owner against infringers of a patent, the
plaintiff, although he has establishe, license fees, is not limited to the
amount of such fees, as damages; but may, instead of damages, recover
the amount of gains and profits that the defendants have made by the
use of his invention, over what they would have had in using other
means then open to the public and adequate to enable them to obtain an
equally beneficial result.
Upon a bill in equity for infinging a patent, if the de;endauts have gained
an advantage by using the plaintifrs invention, that advantage is the
meisure of the profits to be accounted for, even if from other causes
the business in which the invention was employed by the defendants did
not result in profits; and if the use..of a patented process produced a
definite saving in the cost of manufacture, they must account to the
patentee for the amount so saved.
The liability of infringers of a patent to account to the patentee for all the
profits gains and savings, which they have made by the use of his invention during the whole period of their infringement, is not affected by
the fact that in the midst of that period an erroneous decision was made
ii favor of a distict infringer, in no way connected with these defendants.
The conclusions of a master in chancery. depending upon the weighimg of

