SOUTHERN PEVELOPMENT CO. v. SILVA.

2-17

,5yllahus.

fined and the goods were forfeited, the second one tried could
no1t, on conviction, be punished by a fine, because, the merchandise having been already fotfeited, it could not be a
second time forfeited, and so the requirement of the statute
that the merchandise should be forfeited in addition to the
imposition of the fine could not be-carried out. We conclude,
therefore, that the forfeiture imposed by the section is no part
of the punishment for the offence.
In the case of C.fey v. United States, 116 U. S. 436, 443,
-where ยง 3257 of the Revised Statutes nnp-sed on a distiller
for forbidden acts thd forfeiture of his distillery, and also a
fine and imprisonment, this court held, on the authority of
The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 1-, 14, 15, that the forfeiture was to
be enforced by a civil suit in ren, and the fine and imprisonment in a criminal proceeding.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirwed.

SOUTHERN DEVELOPR-fENT COMPANTY v. SILVA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRoIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NbORTHERN DISTRICT'OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1210.

Submitted JanuaryS, 183S.-Deelded March 10, lss..

The general rule that when the answer of the defendant In a cause In equity
is direct, positive, and unequivocal in its denial of the allegations in the
bill, and an answer on oath is not waived, the complainant wvill not be
entitled fo a decree unless these denials are disproved by evidence of

greater weight than the testimony of one witness, or by that of one writness with corroborating circumstances, applies when the equity of the
complainant's bill is the allegation of fraud..
In order to rescind a contract for the purchase of real estate on the ground
of fraudulent representation by the seller, it must be established by clear
and decisive proof that the alleged representation was made In regard to
a material fact; that it was false; that the maker knew that it was -ot
true; that he made It in order to have it acted on by the other party;
and that it was so acted upon by the other party to his damage, and in
ignorance of its falsity and with a reasonable belief that it was true.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

.2148

Opinion of the..Court..
Statements made by the seller of a speculatlve property like a mine, at the
'time of'the contract of sale, concerning his opinion or judgment as to
the probable amount of mineral which it contamns, or as to the character
of the bottom of the ore chamber, or as to the value of the mine, if they
turn out to be untrue, are not necessarily such fraudulent representations
as will authorize a court of equity to rescind the contract of sale.
The fact that a representation made by a seller was false raises no presumption that he knew that it was false.
When the purchaser of a property undertakes to make investigations of his
own respecting it before concluding the contract of purchase, and the
vendor does nothing to prevent his investigation from being as full as he
chooses, the purchaser cannot afterwards allege that the vender made
representations respecting the subject investigated which were false.

Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant apThe case is stated m the opinion of the court. -

Ix EQUITY.

pealed.

-Mr'. William A. 5tewart,._fr. -A. T. Br'tton, and ..!r. A.
B. -Brownefor appellant.
-r. John,E. Mfiller, and
MifR.

JusTice

Lx&u

r.J.P. Langhorne for appellee.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity to rescind a contract of purchase of
a silver mine on the ground of fraudulent representalions and
to recover the consideration paid.
The suit was commenced origmallyin the Superior Court of
Inyo County, California, on the 8th of :May, 1884, but on
account of the diverse citizenship of the parties, the plaintiff
-being a corporation organized -nder the laws of Nev.da, and
the defendant a citizen of California, it was removed into the
United States Circuit Court. Demurreis to the original bill
and to an amended bill having been sustained, the present
"second amended" bill of complaint was filed. Answer was
filed by defendant, replication by complainant, and issue was
joind.. Testimony was taken, and the ca se was heard, resulting in a decree dismissing the bill on the 14th of lMlarch, 1887.
It appears from the record that on the 15th of :Mtarch, 1884,
the appellant (who w~s the complainant below) purchased from

SOUTHERN I)EVELOPAENT CO. v. SILVA.

249

Opinion of the Court.
the.defendant a mining o1ann, known as the cc Sterling Mine,"
together with other mining property, all situated in Inyo
County, California, paying him therefor the sum of ten thousand dollars.
On the 8th of May, 1884, the original bill of complaint was
fied, charging in substance that complainant was induced to
purchase said mine and mining property solely upon the-representations made by Silva as to its condition, extent, and
value; that such representations were made. to H. A. Yerington, the president of said complainant company, and to one
Fdrr-an, a -minimg expert ii Ins employ, in January, 1884.
when an examination of said mine was made by them, that
said representations were false and fraudulent, and were well
known to the defendant at the time to be such; and that
said representations were, in substance and in a somewhat
different order, as follows:
(1) That there were 2000 tons of ore in the mine;
(2) 'That the bottom of what is called the "ore chamber"
was solid ore, as good as the ore exposed on the sides of the
chamber;
(3) That there were not less than 500 tons of ore in and
about the said "ore chamber" ;
(4) That the mine was worth fifteen thousand dollars; and,
(5) That, after going through the mine, the defendant represented to said Yerington and .Forman, thai he had shown
them all the work winch bad been done in or about the mine
that would throw any light upon the quantity of ore therein.
The answer of the defendant is direct, positive, and unequivocal in its denials of the allegations of the bill, and, as an
answer on oath is not waived, unless these denials are disproved by evidence of greater weight than the testimony of

one witness, or by that of one witwss -with corroborating circumstances, the complainant will not be entitled to a decree;
and this effect of the defendant's answer is not weakened by
the fact that the equity of the comp]aiiant's bill is th6 allegation of fraud. VFgel v. ffo2 p, 104:U. S. 441 ; Story Eq. Jur.
1528; Daniell Ch. Fr. 844.
The burden of proof is on the complainant; and unless he

OCTOBER TERIMt, 1887.
Opinion of the Court

brings evidence sufficient to overcome the natural presumption
of fair dealing and honesty, a court of equity will not be justified in setting aside a contract on the ground of fraudulent
representations. in order to establish a charge of this character the complainant must show by clear and decisive proofFirst. That the defendant has made a representation in regard to a material ft ct;
Seeond?/. That such representation is false;
TAirdty. That such representation was not actually believed
by the defendant, on reasonable grounds, to be true;
.Fourthly.That it was made with intent that it should be
acted on,
- fthly. That it was acted on by complainant to his damage; and,
Sixthdy. That in so acting on it the complainant was ignorant of its falsity,. and reasonably believed it to be true.
The first of the foregoing requisites excludes sdch statements
as consist merely in an expression of opinion or judgment,
honestly entertained, and, again, (excepting in peculiar cases,)
it excludes statements by the owner and vendor of property in
respect to its value.
The evidence in the case shows that m the development of
this mine a tunnel, called the "Sterling Tunnel" had first been
dug. At a distance of about 140 feet along the line of this
tunnel, from its mouth, there are branches running easterly and
westerly. About 60 feet from the main tunnel, in the eastern
branch, winze No.1 starts down. Aboat 38 feet below the
level of the tunnel, a level known as the "38-feet level" starts
off from this wrnze, and at the bottom of the winze, a distance
of about 82 feet vertical below the main tunnel, there 3s another
level known as "82-feet level." In the easterly branch of the
tunnel, about 30 feet from winze Nwo. 1, there is another wmze
starting downward, inclining to the southeast as it goes down.
This winze is numbered 2, and is connected with the 38-feet
aiid the 82-feet levels. Intermediate between these levels is
another level, known as the "55-feet level," which opens out
to the eastward of winze No. 9,into a chamber about 15 feet
long and about 8 .feet wide. In the southeast corner of this

SOUTHBERN IfEVELOPMENT CQ- v. SILVA.

251

Opinion of the Court.

chamber was a little hole or shaft, extending downward a few
feet only In sinking wimze N'o. 2, Silva struck an ore body
at a point opposite the 38-feet level. It was irregular in shape,
dipping at an angle of about 45 degrees. Obmmencing at a
point, comparatively speaking, it increased gradually as it
descended, and was in form somewhat like a pyramid. At its
base it measured 4 or 5 feet across, and it was about 9 feet
long. The surface of this inclined' pyramid formed- the floor
or bottom of the chamber. There was, however, a small space
between the base and the opposite foot wall, which is called
the "1bottom" of the chamber by complainant's witnesses, and
is the "bottom" spoken of in the bill. The ore comprising
tins pyramid was carbonate, and being friable, had slacked
down over the face of the pyramid to the bottom -partially
covering it, and partially filing up the little hole or shaft m
the southeast corner.
As to the first alleged representation, as classified abovevi'z., that there were 2000 tons of ore in sight in the mine, and
that Yerington relied upon such statement when he made the
purchase -the proof utterly fails to establish either that Silva
made the statement, as a statement of fact, or that Yerington
relied upon such statement even had it been made. Silva, both
in his answer and in his testimony, denies ever having made
the statement, and the testimony of Yermgton himself is to
the effect that Silva's statement was qualified by the phrase
Cin his judgment." This then is shown to have been nothing
more than an expression of opinion on the part of Silva as to
the quantity of ore in sight in the mine. But even if Silva
had made the statement imputed to hmn in the bill, there is
abundant evidence to show that Yermgton did not rely upon
it in the purchase of the mine. Yerington's own evidence, on
this point, is against him. He testifies that he did not believe
that there were more than 1000 tons of ore in the mine, and
that Fornan agreed with him on that poiiit. And he further
testifies that, valuing this ore at 32 ounces of ore and 45 per
cent of lead per ton, (which it appears was its approximate
value as determined by several assays,) and calculating that
there would be 1000 tons of ore there, the'mine would be worth

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ten thousand dollars-the sum he actually'gave for it. This
lacks much of coming up to the rule that the complainant
must have been deceived, and deceived by the person -of whom
he complains. Atwoo v. SmvZ,'6 0l. and Finn. 232;._Pal
v. r'eeman, 3 T. R. 51. Besides, the quantity of ore "in
sight" in a !ine, as that term is understood among miners, is
at best a mere matter of opinion. It cannot be calculated with
mathematical or even with approximate certainty. The opinions of expert miners, on a question of this kind, might reasonably differ quite materially.
In the case of Tuck v. -Dowing, 6 Illinois, 71, 94, the
court say: "Nlo man, however sbientiflo he may be, could certaihly state how a mine, with the most flattering outcrop or
blow~out, will finally turn out. It is to be fully tested and
worked by men of skill, and jiidgment. NIines are not purchased and sold on a warranty, but on the prospect. I The
sight ' determines the purchase. If very flattering, a party is
willing to pay largely for the 'chance. There is no other
sensible or known mode of selling thins kind of property. It
is, in the nature of the thing, utterly speculative, and every
one knows the business is of the most fluctuating and hazardius character. How many mines have not sustained the hopes
created by their outcrop !1
We approve the position of the court below, that "1Yerington and his expert, Forman, were as competent to judge how
much ore there was 'in sight' as Silva- was. They were no
novices in matters of that kind. This misrepresentation, if
such it be, does not contain either the 1st, 4th, or 5th element
stated by Pomeroy as essential elements M a fraudulent misrepresentation."
As stated above, the substance of the allegation of the bill
is, that Silva represented that the bottom of this ore chamber
w nch was covered with loose ore slacked down from the
pyramid, was composed of ore as good as that exposed on the
.sides of the chamber. Silva in his answer expressly denies
ever having made such statement. Forman testifies that with
a little prospecting pick he had with hn he raked through
the dirt and loose ore that had slacked down, to see if it

SOUTHERN DEVELOPIENT CO. v. SILVA.

253

Opinion of the Court.

would reach the bottom of the ore chamber, but that it would
not. He further says- "I asked Silva how the bottom was;
if he had sunk below there. He said, Clo. I said, cHow is
the bottom? You as a miner know it is.a suspicious thing to
see a bottom covered up or anything of that kind.' He said
the bottom was as good or better than any ore which we saw
in the chamber." Yerington at first testifies that Silva, in
reply to a question by Forman, stated that this floor was solid
ore; but he says that he does not think any comparison was
made between that ore and the ore in the sides of the chamber, as narrated by Forman. On the next day, however,
Yerington, having i as he says, refreshed his memory, " and I
[he] had the means of doing it," was positive that the conversation between Silva and Forman at that .time was as Forman
afterwards stated it. Silva, in addition to his positive denial
in his answer, testifies that "there never was a word said
about that. They asked me this, ' What I thought of the ore
body? and I said II thought it would be extensive.' I
thought so at the time, and I think so yet." The witness,
Eddy, who was present all the time in the ore chamber, except
when he vent to the 38-feet level to get a pick, does not
know anything about a conversation such as Yerington and
Forman narrate.
On this point, then, the testimony of Silva is directly to the
contrary of that of Yerington and Forman. Certain other
material facts in the case seem to indicate that there is just
as strong probability that Silva's statements m this matter are
true, as that those of Yerington and Forman are true. In the
bill Yerington alleged, under oath, that Silva had discovered
the fact that the bottom of the ore chamber was not composed
of ore, and had afterwards covered that bottom with ore, vemrock, and matter-in other words, had "..salted" the mine.
There is no evidence in the record to prove this, or tending to
prove it. On the contrary, the evidence of Yerangton himself,
and of the othor witnesses who were examined on that point,
is all to the effect that the ore covering the floor of the chamber had slacked down from natural causes in fine particles like
wheat. 1or is there such evidence to show that Silva knew

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the character of this floor, or of the extent of the ore-veto, or
deposit (as it afterwards turned out to be,) as would justify
the interposition of a court of equity to set aside the contract
on the ground of fraudulent representations. He had come on
to the ore in excavating from the top. The sides of the orsi
chamber contained some ore of a good quality, and he had
never demonstrated the extent and amount of ore in the
pyramidal wedge in the side of the chamber. It is. shown by
the evidence of Yeringtop himself, that, in the side of a drift
running westerly from the ore chamber, there was ore which
appeared to be continuous with the body of ore in the chamber. So that the statement Silva said he made-viz., that he
thought the ore body would be extensive- at least, appears.
reasonable. Upon all the facts and circumstances apparent of
record, he might have made the statement he says he made,
-and believed he was telling the truth. For there is also'. oe
evidence to the effect that Silva had commenced to ran a drift
from the bottom of winze No. 1, for the purpose of strikiing
and cutting -the supposed downward extension of the ore body
in the chamber, and this before the examination of the imne
by Yerington and Forman. After the sale of the mine,
Coffin, the superintendent for the complainant company, when
he commenced work in the mine, started in where Silva had
left off in this drift, and carried it immediately beneath the
ore chamber, entering the chamber by an up-raise. Then it
-wasthat the discovery was mao-e that the.ore body, instead of
being a continuous ledge or lead, -was merely a deposit.
Furthermore, the testimony of Yerington and Forman, as
regards the little hole or shaft in the southeast corner of the
chamber, is directly opposed by the testimony of Silva and
Eddy. Both Yerington and Fofman tesfify that this little
shaft -was completely filled up -with dirt and loose ore, while
Silva 'and Eddy both testify that it was not so filled up, but
that both Yerington and Foinan stood mn that shaft and took
samples of ore from it.
It is. thus seen that the evidence on this material point does
not clearly establish the fraudulent representations of Silva as
clanned by the complainant, but that, on the contray. the

SOUTHERN DEVeLOPmENT CO. v. SILVA.

255

0pinion of the Court.

material facts and circumstances as disclosed by the record are
entirely compatible with the theory that Silva did. not make
the representations charged against him, or at most, that he
merely gave expression to an opinion as to the extent of the
ore body, erroneous though it proved to be. This would not
constitute fraud. In the language of the court below: "This
testimony was taken in June, 1886, about two and a half years
after the conversations took place. They -were present at the
time examining the mine and engaged in conversation for an
hour or more. These discrepancies in matters of detail during
a rong conversation, related by different parties, viewang the
subject from different standpoints after the lapse of so long a
period of time, are no more than might reasonably be expected, even in honest witnesses. There is no occasion to
impute any intention to testify falsely to either.

.

.

.

Par-

ties are extremely liable to misunderstand each other, and, in
looking back upon the transaction in the light of subsequent
developments, are prone to take the view most advantageous
to themselves."
As to the third alleged representation -to wit, that there
were not less than 500 tons of ore in and about that ore chainber-Silva, both in his answer and-in his testimony, denies that
he ever told Yermgton and Forman, or anybody else, that there
were 500 tons of ore there, or that there was any amount fixed
or agreed upon by them as to the quantity of ore there; while
the testimony of both Yeriugton and Forman is to the effect
that Silva said in Ais opinion, or in As judgnentz,. there were
50. tons of ore in the chamber. So that taking the strongest
testimony produced on the part of complainant upon .this
point, it simply amounts to an expression of opinion on the
part of Silva as to the amount of the ore in the chamber, and
not a statement of fact. It therefore does not constitute
fraud.
It is equally true that any statements that may have been
made by Silva with reference to the value of the mine, cannot,
under the circumstances of this cae, be considered an act of
fraud on his part sufficient to warrant a court of equity in setting aside the contract herein. Yermgton testifies that Silva

OCTOBER TERM, 1887
Opinion of the Court.

said he had been asking $15,000 for the mne, but that he
would take $12,500; while Forman says he does not recollect
that Silva made any statement as to the value of the mine, but
that he heard Silva say he thought it whs worth $15,000. Such
statements are not fraudulent in law, but are considered merely
as trade taik, and mere matters of opimon, which as allowable.
Gordon v. Butler,105 U. S. 553; .Aooney v. .A/27ilr, 102 M1:ass.
211. Moreover, it is clear, beyond question, that Yerington

did not purchase the mine upon Silva's representations as to its
I
value, as we shall hereafter see.
This disposes of all the aleged fraudulent representations,
as arranged above, except the last, adversely to the complainant,
and it is to this one that attention will now be directed. This
substantially, that Silva represented to Yerington
charge is,
and Forman, when they visited the mine in January, 1881, and
had gone through it, that he had shown them all the work
which had been done in and about the mine that would throw
an,- light on the quantity of ore therein. This representation is alleged to have been false and fraudulent, and well
known by Silva to be such, because at. a cut a short distance
from the mouth of the main tunnel, at a point known as the
"point of location," a little hole or shaft had been sunk which
had been filled up, and was not observable at the time of thi
examination of the mine in January, 1884, and also because
there had -been a number of drill holes made in the sides of the
ore chamber, and afterwards filled up before the examination
in January, 1884, so that they were not olservable at that
tune, which holes clearly developed the fact that the ore about
the chamber was nothing more than a shell instead of a continuous body as it appeared to the observer.
The existence of the plugged-up drill holes in the sides of
the ore chamber is the worst feature of the case agaist Silva.
They could not have been made by a former proprietor of the
mine, as is slightly claimed in his behalf, for, as has been
already shown in this opinion, Silva himself, or at least persons
in his employ, had excavated that chamber after'he had purchased it from one Edwards in 1876. And vertain it isthat
the drill holes were found plugged up within a short time

SOUTHERN DEVELOP2JENT CO. v. SILVA.

257

Ophnon of the Court.

after he had sold the mine to the complainant company, :March
15, 1884:. The question is, did Silva know of their existence
at the time he sold the mine, and; having such knowledge,
did he falsely represent to the complainant that he kmew
nothing of them, thereby inducing complainant to act upon
such representations I Upon this quetion the evidence is
somewhat conflicting. Yerington testifies that after going
through the 3mne, he asked Silva if he had shown hin the
whole of the mine, and he replied that he had. And Forman
testifies that Silva, in reply to a question from him, said tuat
he had shown him all the work that had been done in and
about the mine that would throw any light upon the quantity
of ore in the mine, or the extent of the ledge or deposit.
Silva admits that, in reply to a question by Yerington, he told
him that he had shown him all the work that had been done
in 4nd about the mine, -eitherby himself or under is direction.
So that the question is narrowed down to simply this: Were
said drill holes in existence at the time Silva made such statement; if so, had they been made by him or under his direction,
or did he know of their existence 9 In his sworn answer Silva
expressly "demes that he drilled any such hole or holes
through the ore into the country rook or otherwise, or thereby
or at all discovered the extent of said ore, or that he filled up
said drill holes, or concealed them from view or kept them
secret from complainant," &c., and in his testimony he also
denies having any knowledge of their existence. He says that
he drilled no holes in the mine, except what he had to do as a
miner, and that he concealed nothing from Yerington when he
showed him the mine. And again he says: "I showed Mtr.
Yerington all the work that was done in the mine that I knew
anything of.' There is no direct evidence going to show who
drilled the holes. And there is nothing n the entire record
to connect Silva with them, except the fact that he was the
owner of the mine, and was in possession of it at a time when
it is most likely they were drilled. *But this circumstance
alone should not outweigh the positive denial of Silva in his
answer, and also his equally positive denial in his testimony,
of his knowledge of the existence of said drilled holes. The
VOL. cxx-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

law raises no presumption of knowledge of falsity-from the
single fact per se that the representation was false. There
must be something further to establish the defendant's knowledge. Ban ett v. ,Stanton, 2 Alabama, 181; .Mc~onald v.
Traj'"on, 15 :Maine, 225. This rule is fortified by the consideration that had he known of the limited quantity of ore
in and about the 1core chamber," Silva would hardly have gone
to the expense and labor of starting a drift from the bottom
of winze No. 1, and constructing it for a certain distance,
before the sale of the mine, for the purpose of reaching the
supposed downward extension of the ore in and about that
.chamber. Knowing that the ore body terminated within a few
inches of the surface of the chamber, and then in the face of
that knowledge actually constructing a drift on the 82-feet
level, at enormous expense, for the purpose of getting under
that limited quantity of ore, would not appear a reasonable
thing to do by any one, especially by such an experienced -and
practical miner as Silva is admitted to have been.
The testimony, therefore, and all the other facts and circumstances of record, do not substantiate complainant's theory of
the case on this point, in other words, there is not a satisfactory case of fraudulent representations on this point made
out-not such a case as would justify the interposition of a
court of equity to set aside the contract under consideration
on the ground of fraudulent representations.
As regards the little hole or shaft that had been sunk at the
"point of.location" and afterwards filled up, so that it was
not
iervable at the time of Yerington's visit in January,
1884, there is absolutely no testimony at all to show that Silva
knew anything about its existence. He had done no work at
that place, or very little at most, and was using the cut there
as a sort of kitchen. The sides of the cut indicated that there
was a ledge of ore there. It is adinitted that Forinan asked
Silva why he did not "go down" on that ore, and that he
replied that he considered the tunnel the best place to mine.
Silva denies, both in his answer and in his testimony, that
he ever knew that a shaft had been sunk at the point of location, and no one" is found who can testify that he did know

SOUTHERN DEVELOPMENT CO. v. SILVA.

259

Opinion of the Court.

anything about it. On the contrary, the former owner of
the mine, one Edwards, testifies that he himself dug that shaft
and filled it up prior to the time Silva purchase.d it, and that
to his knowledge Silva did not know anything about that
shaft.
It is essential that the- defendant's representations should
have been acted on by complainant, to his injury. Where
*thepurchaser undertakes to make investigations of his own,
and the vendor does nothing to prevent his investigation from
being as full as he chooses to make it, the purchaser cannot
afterwards allege that the vendor made misrepresentations.
.Attwood v. naZl, euzpra; Jenning8 v. Broughton, 5 De Gex,
v. .Downing, supra.
Ifacnaghten and Gordon, 126; T 7uc
The evidence abundantly shows that Yerington had been
willing to give $10,000 for the mine prior to the time he
visited it and made his examination in Tanuary, 1884. He
had made inquiries of various persons for months previous to
that visit. Several experts in his employ had visited the
mine, had taken samples of ore from it, and it must have been
from reports thus received that Yerington had made up his
mind as to what the mine was worth. From the letters of an
agent (Woods) to Eddy, the testimony of the witness Boland,
the testimony of the witness Anthony, Eddy's testimony, and
from the testimony of Silva himself, there can be no doubt
that Yerington had offered $10,000 for the mine several
months before he had ever seen it. Thus showing that his
examination of the mine in January, 1884, merely went to
corcoborate the reports that he had received of it from his
experts, Forman, Bliss; and that it was upon such reports,
and his own judgment after an examination of the mine,
that he made the purchase of it.
From all which it is clear to this court that the complainant
has not proven his case, and the decree below is

Affrmd.

