POTTS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cution of the note and of the deed of trust in ns presence, and
to the acknowledgment of the latter before hun, and to Ins
signing his name as a witness to the execution of each. It is
also satisfactorily shown that the $1000 secured by the notpassed from the lender to the agent of the borrower. It
would serve no good purpose to discuss the evidence at length.
The integrity'of the transaction is not satisfactorily impeached.
The dearee of the court below, in gene'a2 term, is reversed,
directio, to
and the cave is 'ermnded to it, with
aflm, with, costs the decaree of the court in specsa t&w'.

POTTS v. UNITED STATES.
APPF.L iROM THE COURT OF OLAfl.1.
X6o. 698. .&rgued February2,:SS8.-Declded-rchllSSS.

A naval officer being retired on furlough pay, under Rev. Stat. § 1454, for
Incapacity not the result of any incident of the service, and beiug subsequently transferred by the President, by and with the consent of the
Senate, fromthe furloughto the retired pay list under Rev. Stat. § 1594,
is entitled thereafter, under the second clause of Rev. Stat. § 1588, when
not on active duty, to one-balf the sea pay provided for the grade orrank
retirement.
held by hun at the time of his

TuE case is stated m the opinion of the court.
t2A.John- PaulJones and 2fr. Robert B. Lines for appellant.
tay for appellee.
Mr. Heber.
with him on the brief.

-Mr.Attorney General was

MR. CHIE F JUsTioE W.A=r delivered the opinion of the court.
Howard D. Potts, an assistant engineer of the navy, being
physically disabled, was examined by a naval retiring board
who reported that he was incapacitated from active service,
and that in their judgment the incapacity did not originate in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

the line of duty. In thig report the President concurred, and
directed a retirement on furlough pay.
The sections of the Revised Statutes governing such a proceeding are as follows:
"SEo. 1449. Said retiring board shall be authorized to inquire
into and determine the facts touching the nature and occasion
of the disability of any such officer, -and shall have such powers of a court-martial and of a court of inquiry as may be necessary.
"SEc. 1450. The members of said board shall. be sworn in
each case to discharge their duties honestly and impartially.
"Sno..1451. Mhen said retiring board finds an officer incapacitated from active service, it shall also find and report
the cause which, in its judgment, produced his incapacity, and
whether such cause is an incident of the service.
"SEC. 1452. A record of the proceedings and decision of the
board in each case shall be transmitted to the Secretary of the
lNavy, and shall be laid by him before the President for his
approval or disapproval or orders in the case.
!I SEa. 1453. When a retiring board-'finds that an officer is
incapacitated for active service, and that his incapacity is the
result of an incident of the service, such officer shall, if said
decision is approved by the President, be retired from active
service, with retired pay, as allowed by Chapter 8 of this Title.
"SEc. 1454. When said board finds that an officer is incapacitated for active service, and that his incapacity is not the
result of any incident of the service, such officer shldl, if said
decision is approved by the President, be retired from active
service on furlough pay, or wholly retired from service with
one year's pay, as the President may determine.
"SEc. 1593. Officers placed on the retired list on furlough
pay shall receive only one-half of the pay to winch they
would have been entitled if on leave of absence on the active
list."
On the 15th of March, 1877, Potts was nominated by the
President and confirmed by the Senate on the 17'th of the same
month, for transfer from the furlough to the retired pay list
under § 1594 of the Revised Statutes. That section is as follows:

POTTS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

1894. The President, by-and with the advice and consent of the Senate, may transfer any officer on the retired list
from the furlough to the retired pay. list.?'
Since his confirmation he has been paid one-half the sea pay
of an officer of his rank- at the .time of retirement, the accounting officers being of. opinion that his case fell within the
second clause of § 1588 of the Revised Statutes, which is as
follows:
"The pay of all other officers on the retired list (excluding
those above specified) shall, when not on active duty, be equal
to one-half the sea pay provided by this chapter for the grade
or rank held by them at the time of retirement."
He clauns, however., that after his transfer from the furlough
to the -retiredlist he was entitled to three-quarters of the sea
pay under the first clause of that section as follows:
"SEc. 1588. The pay of all officers of the navy, who have
been retired after forty-five years' service after reaching the
age of sixteen years, or who have been, or may be retired
after forty years' service, upon their own application to the
President, or on attaining the age of sixty-two years, or on
account of incapacity resulting'from long and faithful service,
from wounds or injuries received in the line of duty, or fiom
sickness or exposure therein, shall, when not on active duty,
be equal to seventy-five per centum of the sea pay provided
by this chapter for the grade or rank which they held, respectively, at the time of their retirement."
This suit was brought to recover the difference between
one-half and three-quarters of sea pay from the date of his
transfer. The Court of Claims gave judgment against him,
and from that judgi.ent this appeal was taken.
We agree entirely with the Court of Claims in the view it
took of the case. The finding of the retiring board, approved
by the President., is the judgment of the tribunal created under
the law for the government of the i'a.vy to determine such
questions, that Potts be retired from active service for indid not originate in the line of duty." This
capacity, which ",
made him a retired officer on .furlough pay, and gave him
one-half the leave of absence pay of an officer on the active
CSEc.

OCTOBER TERMt, 1887.
Syllabus.

list. When he was afterwards transferred by the action of
the President and Senate-"from the furlough to the retired
pay list," his at-u as a retired officer was not changed. He
still remained an officer retired for incapacity which did not
originate in the line of duty, but his pay was raised from that
of an officer retired "1on furlough pay" to that of one retired
on half sea pay. In other words, he was taken from the furlough list and put on the list of those-retired under circumstances which brought them within the second clause of §
1588, instead of the first. The object of the statute is not to
enable the President and Senate to vacate the finding of the
retiring board that the incapacity of the officer did not "originate in the line of duty," and to decide that it was "the result of an incident of the service," but to afford a means for
his relief from the consequences 6f such a finding, to the extent
of adding to his pay the difference between the half of leave
of absence pay 4nd the half of sea pay. It may have been
intended as a provision for a remedy for wrongs done by retiring boards, but it limited the power of the President and Senate in that behalf to a transfer of the name of the officer
from "the furlough to the retired pay list." The cause of his
retirement still remains the same, and determines his position
on the "retired pay list."
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
-Afflpmed.

UN3ITED STATES o. BURCHARD.

BURCARD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
ios. 155,1332. Argued February 2, I8SS.-DecIde

Match 19, 1888.

An appeal, docketed here January 7, 1888, from a 3udgmnent of the Court of
Claims winch was entered February4, 1884, is dismissed for want of due
prosecution.
Potts v. Mited States, ante, 173, affirmed and applied to the case.

