OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Company is now occupying the line under a contract with the
railroad company, which gives it an exclusLve right in that
behalf, and it is not demed that some arrangement has been
made with the Southern Telegraph Company by which that
company no longer is a contestant in the cause. Time is given
the railroad company until the 19th day of March next to make
a further chowing in the premises if it.desires to do so.
M . JUSTICE MiRsn, on the 9th of April, 1888, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It was suggested by a letter from counsel employed on one
side of this suit that his party had sold out the interest which
it had to the other party, who was prosecuting it now and
was dominu litis on both sides. A ruling was made some
time ago, before the death of the late Chief Justice, in effect
'that there was sufficient evidence to that effect to requre the
case to be dismissed unless the 'side now prosecuting it for
decision would show satisfactory evidence that it was a bonax
.Rde suit. Two attempts have been made, and we are agreed
m the opinion that they are both failures and that the'original
order should now be carried out, dismissing the case on the
grounds set forth in the opinion of the Chief Justice, delivered
at the time.
I RE ROYALL
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE ADJUDGED AT THE LAST TERM OF
THIS COURT.
No. 1351 of October Term,1886. Submitted February1', 188..--Decided February 20,1888.

The court denies a motion to take action to cause the judgment of a state
court to be reversed in obedience to the mandate of this court, on the
ground that it did not appear that the petitioner bad applied to the highest court of the State to carry the mandate of this court into effect.

.21i .- igk .Robznson, on behalf of Mr. 'William L. Royall,
the plaintiff in 1?oyaZ v. lVirginia, decided at the, last term
and reported in 121 U. S. at page 102, presented. the follow.
ing petition.

nq RE ROYALL.
Opmion -6f the Court.

To t7k fonorab JcZdges of t7w Supreme Court of te United
States-

Your petitioner, William L. Royal], would respectfully show
that in a prosecution, agamst him in the Hustings court of the
city of Richmond, by the Commonwealth of Virginia, he was
convicted and sentenced to pay a fine of fifty dollars. Your
petitioner applied to the supreme court of appeals of said
State for a writ of error to reverse this judgment, but that
court refused to award the same. Your petitioner then applied to this Honorable Court for a writ of error, which was
awarded, and the judgment of the supreme court of appeals of
Virginia was reversed at the last term of this court, and this
courtis mandate was sent. to said supreme court of appeals,
directing it to reverse the judgment of said Hustings court.
Your petitioner placed the mandate of this court in the
hands of Hon. Lz. L. Lewis, president of the supreme court of
appeals of the State of Virginia, in the month of Tine, 1887,
and prayed that such proceedings might be taken as -would
cause the judgment of said Hustings court to be reversed.
Nevertheless, up to this day said supreme court of appeals of
the State of Virginia has taken no action in the matter, and
the judgment and sentence of said Hustings court of the city
of Richmond against your petitioner remain in full force and
unreversed. Your petitioner prays, tfherefore, that this Honorable Court will take such action in the premises as -ill cause
said: judgment to be reversed. The said supreme court of appeals and the said Hustings -court axe both in session at this
time.
WM- L. ROYALL.

Mu.

CmEf JusTIon WA=~r

delivered the opinon of the court.

This motion is demed. It does not appear that the petitioner has ever applied to the supreme court of appeals of Virginia to carry the mandate of this court into effect.

