UNITED STATES v. SAN JAC iTO TIN CO.

9273

Syllabus.

the consideration of this court, and therefore we decline to
exaine into its merits. .Murdock v. City of _iempkis, 20
Wall. 590, Allen v. ilXc 7j-eg, 1011 .U.S. 433.
'Upon the only questions in this cale cognizable by this court,

the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of

UNITED STATES v. SANT JAOINTO TIl
.APPEAL Fi iOMa

EiMssouri is
Af4i-rmed.

COMPANY.

THE OIRCUI COURT OF THE MUITED STA.TES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CALWORNIA-

2To. 887. Argued January 26, 27, 30, 1S.-Decided lfarch 19, 18M.
A suit may be brought by the United'States in any court of competent juris.
diction to set aside, cancel, or annul a patent for land issued in Its name,
on the ground that it was obtained by fraud or mistake.
The initiation and control of such a suit lies with the Attorney General as
the head of one of the Executive Departments.
But the right to bring such a suit exists only when, the government has an
interest m the remedy sought by reason of its interest in the land, or the
fraud has been practised on the government and operates to its prejudice,
or it is under obligation to some individual to make Ins title good by setting aside the fraudulent patent, or the duty of the government tb the
public requires such action.
When it is apparent that the only purpose of bringing the suit is to bencft
one of two claimants to the land, and the government has no interest in
the matter, the suit must fail.
In the case before us the alleged fraud, for winch it is sought to annul the
patent, is in the survey of a confirmed Mexican grant, on which the
patent was issued; and it is charged that at the time.the survey was
made the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the Surveyor General
for California, the chief clerk of the latter's office, and the deputy who
made the survey, were interested in the ownership of the grant, and by
fraud made a false location of the land to make it contain valuable ores
of tin not :witlun Its limits if fairly surveyed.
Of all the officers here charged only Conway, the chief clerk, had any real
interest In the claim, and he notified the Surveyor General of Ins interest,
and refused to have anything to do with the survey; it is nowhere shown
that he in any manner mfluenced the location of the survey, and it is
denied under oath by all who took part in making it.
The fact is much relied on that some of these officers, after the pafent was
issued, took shares in a joint stock corporation organized to work the
VOL. cxxv-18

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.
mine, but there is no proof that the shares were a voluntary gift, or were
for services rendered in locating the survey, and the fairness of the purchase of these shares after the patent issued-is sustained by affirmative
testimony.
The fact that this survey was contested, at every step by interested parties,
and was returned to the surveyor's office for correction, was twice before
that office and twice before the Commissioner in Washington, and finally
decided after sx months' considfyation by the Secretary of the Interior,
confirming the decision of the Land Office, affords very strong evidence
of the correctness and honesty of the survey
In the azxtrell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, we expressed ourselves
fully in regard to the testimony necessary to enable a court of chancery
to set aside such a solemn instrument as a patent of the United States.
It was there said, -that when in a court of equity it is proposed to set
aside, to annul, or to correct a written instrument for fraud or mistake
in the execution of the instrument itself, the testimony on which this is
done must be clear, uneqmvocal, and convincing, and that it cannot be
done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves the issue in
doubt?' There is no such convincing evidence of fraud in the present
case.

BrLL in equity to set aside a patent of public land. Decree
disnssmg the bill, from which complainant appealed. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court,.
JY. Bolkitor Genera and .r. G. Tfriky Well& for appellant.
Xr. T illZiam -.

&ewart for appellees.

Mm[h. Jus=io Ifumm delivered the, opinion of the court.
The suit in this case, which was a bill in chancery filed April
10, 1883, in the Circuit Court for the District of California, purports to be brought by the Attorney General on behalf of 'the
United States against the San Jacinto Tin Company, the
Riverside Canal Company, and the Riverside Laud and Irrigating Company. These corporations are alleged to be in
possession of a large body of land, nearly eleven square
leagues in extent, for which a patent was issued by the United
States on the 26th day of October, 1867, to Maria del Rosario
Estudillo de Aguirre, and her heirs and assigns. The object
of the bill is to set aside this patent, and have it declared void,

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

275

Opinion of the Court.

upon the ground that the land described in the survey, which
description is a part of the patent, is not the land granted by
the Mexican government to said Maria, nor that which was
confirmed: to her under the proceedings before the land conimission, and by the judgment of the District Court of the
United States, and by this court also on appeal. The essential feature of the grievance relied on by the complainant is,
that this §urvey was thus located by fraud to include different
and more -valuable land than that granted by Mexico and confirmed by the courts, and on account of this fraud it is prayed
that the survey and patent be set aside and annulled.
Perhaps the nature of this proceeding cannot be better
stated than in the language that heads the brief or printed
argument of the appellant, who was plaintiff below. It is as
follows:
"This brief is intended to establish the following general
proposition, viz.- That the lands hereinafter described as
patented to Maria del Rosario de Aguirre, and her heirs and
assigns, on the 26th day of October, 1867, were obtained from
the United States by a fraudulent survey of the lands described
therein in violation of the decree of the court; and that the
persons engaged in said.fraudulent survey were the beneficiaries thereof-; and that, by reason thereof, said patent to the
same is void, and should be set aside, vacated, and annulled.'
The case was heard in the Circuit Court on the bill, answer,
replication, and voluminous testimony, by the Circuit and District Judges sitting together, who concurred in the decree
dismissing the bill.
The bill sets out a grant to one Maria del Rosario Estudillo
de Aguirre of the surplus or "'sobrante" of the Ranchos of
San Jacinto Viejo y Nuevo, or the overplus which remains in
the Ranchos of Old and New San Jacinto, the survey thereof
to commence from the boundaries of Don Jos6 Antonio Estudillo and -Don Miguel Pedrorena. It alleges that this grant
was afterwards confirmed by-the District Court of California
on appeal from the land commission. Upon an appeal taken
from that court to the Supreme Court of the United States its
judgment was affirmed. The decision of the land commission

OCTOBER TERM,. 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

was to the effect that the claimant was entitled to five square
leagues of land within this sobrante or surplus. The District
Court, however, held that the claimant was entitled to eleven
square leagues, if so much should be found within the sobrante,
and to all that was found therein if it were less than that
amount.
The language of this decree, as set forth in the body of the
bill, and affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States
at its December Term, 1863, United Sates v. .D'Aguirre, 1
Wall. 311, describez the land confirmed as "the sobrante or
surplus lands remaining within the boundaries of the tract of
land called San Jacinto, as the same are represented and- described in the map of said tract contained in the expediente of
Miguel Pedrorena filed in this case and referred to in the grant,
over and above certain lands granted to Jos6 Antonio Estudillo,
and certain other lands granted to Miguel Pedrorena, within
the aforesaid boundaries, to the extent of eleven square leagues
of land; and if said sobrante or surplus within said boundaries
should be less than eleven square leagues, then such less quantity" The bill alleges that the location by survey of the lands
confirmed by this decree was not at all within the sobrante of
the San Jacinto grant, but that it was located upon other lands
than those on which it should have been, because those which
were embraced by the survey were valuable as containing Qres
of 'tin; and that nearly all the officers engaged in making or
establishing it, from and including the Commissioner of the
General Land Office down to the deputy surveyors, Were interested in the claim at the time.
It is alleged that throughout the whole transaction, from
the beginning of the effort to have -this survey made until its
final completion and the issue of the patent, all the proceedings
were dictated by fraud, and all the officers of the government
below the Secretary of the Interior who had anything to do
-with it were parties to that fraud, and to be benefited by it.
The principal points upon which this fraud is said to rest
are, that the land surveyed wai not within the larger exterior
boundaries out of which the sobrante of San Jacinto Viejo y
leuvo was to be taken, but that said survey described a tract

UIhTED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN .CO.

277'

Opmnopu of the Court.

of land of about the same extent, to wit, of about eleven square
leagues, situated.more than six miles at the-iearest point, and
more than twenty miles at the farthest point, away from the
laud in fact granted and conceded by Pio Pico, governor, to
the grantee; that. the survey of said land was never made in
the field, nor from any actual measurements of distances or
observation or determination of courses in the field, as the law
of the land department required, nor according to the directions of the decree confirming said grant; .that the plat and
survey were made arbitrarily and without any actual data in
the office of the Surveyor General of the United States for
California, under the direction and dictation of that officer and
one Edward Conway, then: chief clerk in charge -of that office,
and performing the duties of Surveyor General, and by one
George H. Thompson, a deputy surveyor acting under the
Surveyor General and the chief clerk; that it was so made up
wi,4out any reference to the expediente that accompamed the
grant or juridical possession given at the time of the grant, qr
to the decree, but that it was made solely with reference to
securing, surreptitiously and fraudulently, letters-patent for the
land included and described withn the said survey and plat,
although the same lies outside of the boundaries of the tract
called San Jacinto; that the land so surveyed and platted was
at that time supposed by said Surveyor General and Edward
Conway to contain, and did in fact contain, valuable lodes of
tin and other mineral ores, and that all this was well known
to the defendant, or to persons composing its stockholders, at
the tne the patent was issued.
It is further alleged that Upson'the Surveyor General Conway, the chief clerk in his office, and Thompson, the deputy
who was directed to make the survey and did. piake the plat,
and Joseph H. Wilson, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office at Washington, were all interested in and part owners.
of the claim at the time this survey was made, and at the very
time they acted in reference to its final confirmation. Other
persons are also said to be inculpated in this fraudulent proceeding whose names it is not necessary at present to mention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It will thus be seen that the entire foundation for the
relief sought in this case rests upon a fraud alleged to have
been committed upon the government by its own officers, they
being interested in the claim to be surveyed and patented.
There is no pretence of any mere mistake m the matter, but
on the contrary it is -asserted that the parties knew exactly
what they were doing, and that it was intended to cheat the
United States out of valuable minmeral ores for the benefit and
advantage of those parties and their confederates. The issue
is thus narrowed exclusively to the question of fraud.
Another question, however, is raised by counsel for the
defendant, which is earnestly insisted upon by them, and
which received the serious consideration of the judges in the
Circuit Court, namely, the right of the Attorney General of
the United States to institute this suit.
The question as prdsented is one surroundd by some embarrassment. But as it is in some form or other of frequent
recurrence recently, and if decided in favor bf the appellees
-will require the dismissal of the case -without a judgment by
this court upon its merits, we feel called upon to glv.e the
matter our attention. It is denied that the Attorney General
has any general authority under the Constitution and laws of
the United States to commence a suit in the name of the
United States to set aside a patent, or other solemn instrument
issued by proper huthority.
It-is quite true that the Revised Statutes, in thhe title which
establishes and regulates the Department of Justice, simply
declares, in § 846, that "there shall be at the seat of governinent an Executive Department to be known as the Department of Justice, and an Attorney Gefieral, who shall be the
head thereof." There is no very specific statement of the
general duties of the Attorney General, but it is seen from the
whole chapter referred to that hIe has the authority, and it is
made his duty, to supervise the conduct of all suits brought by
or against the United States, and t9 give advice to the President and the heads of the other departments of the government. There is'no express authority vested in him to authorize suits to be brbught against the debtors of the government,

UNITED STATES v,. SAN JACIMTO TIN CO.
OpmIo

279

of the Court.

or upon bonds, or to begin criminal prosecutions, or to
institute proceedings in any of the numerous cases m which
the United States is plaintiff ; and yet he is invested with the
general superintendence of all such suits, and all the districtattorneys who do bring them in the various courts- in the
country are placed under his immediate direction and control
And notwithstanding the want of any specific authority to
bring an action in the name of the United States to .set aside
and declare void an instrument issued under its. apparent
authority, we cannot believe that where a case exists in which
this ought to be done it is not within the authority of that
officer to cause such action to be instituted and prosecuted.
He is undoubtedly the officer who has charge of the institution
and conduct of -the pleas of. the United StAtes, and of the
litigation wluch is necessary to establish the rights of the
government.
If the United States in any particular case has a just cause
for calling upon the judiciary of the country, in -any of its
courts, for relief by setting aside or annulling any of its con'tracts, its obligations, or its most solemn istruments, the question of the appeal to the judicial tribunals of the country must
primarily be decided by the Attorney General of the United
States. That. such a power should exist somewhere, and that
the United States should not be more helpless in relieving itself
from frauds, impostures, and dee pios than the private individual, is hardly open to argument. The Constitution itself
declares that the judicial power shall extend to all cases to
which the United States shall be a party, and that tis means
mainly where it is a party plaintiff is a necessary result of the
well-established proposition that it cannot be sued in any court
without its consent. There must, then, be an officer or officers
of the government to determine when the United States shall
sue, to decide for what it shall sue, and to be responsible that
such suits shall be brought in appropriate cases. The attorneys
of the United States in every judicial district are officers of this
character, and they are by statute under the immediate supervision and control of the Attorney General. How, then, can
it be argued that if'the United States has been deceived, en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

trapped, or defrauded into the making, under the forms of law,
of an instrument which- mjuriously affects its rights of property, or other rights, it cannot bring a suit to. avoid the effect
of such instrument, thus fraudulently obtained, without a
special act of Congress in each case, or without some special
authority applicable to this class of cases, while all other just
grounds of suing in a court of justice concededly belong to
the Department of Justice, and are in use every day?, The
judiciary uct of 1789, in its third section, which first created
the office of Attorney General, without any very accurate definition of his powers, in using the words that "there shall also
be appointed a meet person, learned m the law, to act as Attorney General for the United States," 1 Stat. 93, c. 21, § 35,.
must have had reference to the similar office with the same
designation existing under the English law. *And though it
has been said that there is no commoh law of the United
States, it is still quite true that when acts of Congress use
words which are familiar in the law of England, they are supposed to be used with reference to their meaning in that law.
In all this, however, the Attorney General acts as the head of
one of the Executive departments, representing the authority
of the President'in the class of subjects within the domain of
that department and under his control.
In the case of the Uited State8 v. Irughes, 11 How.552,
one Godbee had entered and paid for land at the United States
land office in Neew Orleans, but had not taken out his patent.
Hughes, well knowing this fact, entered, paid for, and received
a patent for -the same ]and, the prior entry of Godbee being
overlooked by the land officers. The United States having
tendered Hughes his purchase money, the Attorney General
-iled: an information on behalf of the United States to repeal
the patent. -The defendant, Hughes, demurred on the ground
that no authority existed for bringing such a suit; but this
court, saying that. it cannot "be conceived why the government should stand on a different footing from any other proprietor," p. 568, overruled the demurrer. When the case afterwards came into this court on appeal from the derree on the
final hearing, it said: "It was the plam duty of the United

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

281-

Opbinoz of the Court.

States to seek to-vacate and annul the instrument, to the end
that their previous engagement might be fulfilled by the transfer of a clear title, the only one intended for the purchaser by
the act of Congress?' Hv#hes v. United Btates, 4 WalL 232.
In United States v..Stone, 2 Wall. 525, Mr. Justice Grier,
delivering the opinion of the court, said" "A patent is the
highest evidence of title, and is conclusive as against the government, and all claiming under junior patents or titles, until
it is'set aside or annulled by some judicial tribunal. In England this was originally done by scirefacias,but a bill in otkancery is found a more convenient remedy," p. 535.

In the case of _fowry v. W7dtney, 14-Wall. 434, 439, 440,
which was an attempt by a private party to set aside by a bill
-in chancery a patent for an invention, the court considered
the subject rather fully, and said that "the ancient method of
doing this in the English courts was by soirefacias,and three
classes of cases are laid down in which this may be done."
The court held that in England "the scire facias to repeal a,
patent was brought in chancery where the patent was of
record. And though in this country the writ of soi'e facids
is not in use as a chancery proceeding, the nature of the chancery jurisdiction and its mode of proceeding have established
it as the appropriate tribunal for the annulling of a grant or
patent from the government," referring to United States v.
Stone, above cited. The court denied the right of the private
party to sustain a suit to annul the patent, and said. "The
general public is left to the protection of the government and
The reasons for requiring official authority
its officers. . .
for such a proceeding are obvious. The fraud, if one exists,
has been practised on the government, and as the party injured
it is the appropriate party to assert the remedy or seek reliefl
p. 441.
In Uhited States v. Thmcokmoton, 98 U. S. 61, 10, the court
said: "In the class of cases to which this belongs, however,
the practice of the English and the American courts has been
to require the name of the Attorney General as indorsing the
suit before it will be entertained. The reason of this is obvious, namely, that in so important a matter as impeaching the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinon of the Court.

gra4ts of the government under its seal, its highest law officer
should be consulted, and should give the support of his name
and authority to the suit. He should also have control of it
in every tage, so that if at any time during its progress he
should become convinced that the proceeding is not well
founded, or is oppressive, he may dismiss the bill"
In 2foone v. -?obbzns, 96 U. S. 530, 583, the court, speaking
of the issuing of patents for land by the government, said:
"If fraud, mistake, error, or wrong has been done, the courts
of justice present the only remedy. These courts are as open
to the United States to.sue for the cancellation of.the deed or
reconveyance of the land as to individuals; and if the government is the party injured, this is the proper course."
While the cases last cited did not involve directly the power
of the Attorney General to institute a suit to set aside a patent
of thb United States, we have had before us quite recently
three cases which did involve that power, brought by the
United States for the express purpose of setting aside patents
for land issued by the government on the ground of frauds or
mistakes in their issue. In the first of these, -Mofatv. 7"nited
tates, 112 U. S. 24, which was prosecuted by the Attorney
Genera4 who appeared in this court by the Assistant Attorney
General to argue the case, the decree of the Circuit Court setting aside the patent as having been obtained by the fraud of
the officers of the land department was affirmed. NTo question was made of the right of the -Attorney General to institute the suit and conduct it to a successful termination.
In the second case United States v. _M1inw 114 U. S. 233,
2I, a suit was brought in the Circuit Court for the District of
.Oaliforma to set aside a patent for land issued by the government to Minor. The bill alleged that the patent was obtained
by the fraud of Ifinor in making false affidavits and procuring
others to be made before the officers of the land department,
by which he obtained the patent for the laud in question.
Although the case was certified here by the judges sitting ii
that court on a division of opinion upon several points, one of
which was whether a demurrer to the amended bill.should be
sustained, no question seems to have been made of the right

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

283

Opinion of the Court.

of the government by its Attorney General to institute this
suit the appeal.on behalf of the United States being argued
by the Solicitor General, an officer under the control of the
Attorney General.
Some question was, however, made in the opinion in that
case in regard tb the right of the Attorney General to bring
such a suit, where the only result would have"been to take the
land from :Minor and give it to one Spen'ce, who had a claim
upon part of it, the court saying.that "the government in that
case would certainly have no interest in the land when recovered, as it must go to Spence without any further compensation. And it may become.a grave question, m some future
case of this character, how far the officers of the government
can be permitted, when it has no interest in the proporty or in
the subject of the litigation, to use its name to set aside its
own patent, for which it has received full compensation, for
the benefit of a rival claimant." The court said, however,
that the question did not arise in that case, because Spence
only had a claim to one-half of the land covered by the patent.
It will be seen that the only question thus suggested did not
affect the right of the_Attorney General in a proper case to
institute and carry on such a suit; and the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed on the ground that the case presented
was one which justified relief.
d I'on CornIn the still later case of The .Colorado (Joaf,
bill
was
filed- in the
S.
307,
the
123
U.
v.
UniteZ
States,
.pany
name of the United States by the Attorney General to declare
void and cancel sixty-one patents for as many distinct pieces
of land, situated at different places in las Animas County,
in the State'of Colorado, amounting in the aggregate to over
nine thousand acres. The allegation in that case was, that
the patent had been obtained by the fraudulent use of fictitious
names as grantees of the land, and the case was fought through
with great vigor on both sides. It was th6roughly and elaborately considered, and the court said, in regard to these
transactions, that they "undoubtedly constituted a fraud upon
the United States sufficient in equity as against the parties
perpetrating it, or those claiming under them with notice of

.284:

OCTOBER TERMh,

1887.

Opinon of the Cour.

it, to justify the cancellation of the patents issued to them,"
quoting the following language from, United States v.

Iifnor,

above cited: "Where the patent is the result of nothing but
fraud and perjury, it is enough to hold that it conveys the legal
title, and it would be going quite too far to say that it cannot
be assailed by a proceeding in equity and set aside as void, if
the fraud is proved and there are no innocent holders for value."
If the court had entertained the opinion in these cases, that
there existed in the Attorney General -no right to institute
these suits to set aside patents for lands obtained by fraud, it
would have been saved the labor of a protracted investigation
in each of them into the facts which were .supposed to constitute the fraud; and in the two cases flrst mentioned the
court violated its dutyin sustaining the government and setting
aside the patents if there existed in its judgment no "right in
the Attorney General to institute such suits.
We are not insensible to the enormous power and its capacity
for evil thus reposed in that department of the government.
Sincethetitleto all of the land in more than half of the States
and Territories of the Union depends upon patents from the
government of the United States, it is to be seen what a vast
power is confided to the officer who may order the institution
of suits to set aside every one of these patents; and if the
doctrine that the United States in bringing such actions is not
controlled by any statute of limitations, or governed by the rule
concerning Zches be sound, of which we express no opinion
at present, tien the evil which may result vould seem to be
endless as well as enormous. But it has often been saad that
the fact that the exercise of power may be abused is no sufficient reason for denying its existence, and if restrictions are
to be placed upon the exercise of this authority by the Attorney
General, it is for the legislative body which created the office
to enact them.
We do not think], therefore, that it can be successfully denied
that there exists in the Attorney General, as the head of the
Department of Justice, the right to institute, in the name of
the United States, a suit to abrogate, annul, or set aside a
patent for land which has been issued by the government in ,

UNITED STATES'u. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

285

Opinion of the Court.

ease where such an instrument if permitted to stand would
work serious injury to the United States, and prejudice its
interests, and where it has been obtained by fraud, inposture,
or nistake.
One of the difficulties attending the present case and others
of like character which have come before us, in which the
authority of the Attorney General to institute the suit has been
questioned, is, that no specific plea has been fied denying this
authority, or alleging that the suit as made by the bill, or
established by the evidence, does not come within the class of
cases in which that officer can exercise this power.
There is no plea in this case, and all that is said upon this
subject in the answer is in the f61lowing language: "I f'said
officers" [meaning the President, the Secretary of the Interior,
and the Commissioner of the General land Office, who were
such at the time this action was begun] "had consulted the
records they would have been easily informed of the truth;
but the said Attorney General is now informed and moved
and instigated by the same parties who made the contest in
the land department before the issuing of the said patent, and
M. G. Cobb, the same attdrney who drew the bill herein, and
instigated th6 suit and conducts the same, was the attorney of
said contestants in said proceedings, and has represented said
parties as such attorney and counsel from the filing of said
objections by said Stearns and tontalva down to the present
time."
But we are of opinion that since the right of the government
of the United States to institute such a suit depends upon the
same general principles which would authorize a private citien
to apply to a court of justice for relief against an instrument
obtained from him by fraud or deceit, or any of those other
practices which are admitted to justify a court in granting
relief, the government must show that, like the private indi-vidual, it has such an interest in the relief sought as entitles it
to move in the matter. If it be a question of property a case
must be made in which the court can afford a remedy in regard
to that property; it-ot be a question of fraud which w6uld
render the instrument void, the fraud must operate to the

OCTOBER TERiAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

prejudice of the United States; and if it is apparent that the
suit is brought for the benefit of some third party, and that
the United States has no pecuniary interest in the remedy
sought, and is under no obligation to the party who -ill be
benefited to sustain an action for his use; in short, if there
does not appear any obligation on the part of the United States
to'the public, or to any individual, oir any interest of its own,
it can no more sustain such an action than any private person
could under similar circumstances.
In all the decisions to which we have just referred it is either
expressed or implied that this interest or duty of the United
States must exist as the foundation of the right of action. Of
course this interest must be made to appear in the progress of
the proceedings, either by. pleading or evidence, and if there is
a want of it, and the fact is manifest that the suit has actually
been brought for the benefit of some third person, and that
no obligation to the general public exists which requires the
United States to bring it, then the suit must fail. In the case
before us the bill itself leaves a fair implication that if this
patent is set aside the title to the property will revert to the
United States, together with the beneficial interest in it. It
is argued in the brief that this is not true; that in fact the
government is but the instrument of one Baker, who married
the widow of Abel Stearns ;-and that Stearns contested the
correctness of this survey with others before the land department very actively and energetically, because he had such an
interest in the land covered by it that if it was defeated he
would become the equitable or beneficial owner of the land.
This view is supported by some pretty strong testimony and
by the fact that Baker was the man at whose instance the
action was begun.
When the Attorney General required that a, bond should be
given to save the United States harmless with regard to the
costs of these proceedings, Baker was the man who furnished
the security and signed the bond himself. The condition
inserted in that obligation recited "that whereas the Attorney
General of the United States of America has this day filed, at
the r'eguest of the above-named R. S. Baker, a bill in equity in

UNITED STATES

.v.

SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

287

Opinion ofathe Court.

the name of and on behalf of the United States of America
against the San Xacmto Tin Company: . . . Now, therefore, if the said Baker shall well and truly save the United

States of America harmless from all costs and expenses which
may be incurred by or against them in the prosecution of said
suit to its final determination, and pay or cause to be paid on
demand all such costs and expenses as may necessarily be in-

curred in such prosecution, .then this obligation to be void."
Taking all these circumstances together, it raises a very strong
implication that Baker expected that if the patent was set
aside his right to the land covered by it, or to a large part of
it, would become paramount.
But we are not so entirely satisfied of the want of interest
of the United States in the whole or a part of the land which
is covered by this patent as to justify us in saying that the bill
in the present case ought to be dismissed on that ground.
Coming to the merits of the case, which turn exclusively on
the question of fraud in the location of the survey of the grant
to the original claimant, we are to observe that the issue is, by
the pleadings themselves, as well as by the explicit statement
of counsel for appellant, limited to actual fraud in the execution of that survey. There is no denial of the validity of the
original grant, nor of its confirmation by the land commission,
as well as on appeal by the District Court of the United States
for California and by this court. The justice of a claim for
eleven square leagues of land within the surplus, -echnically
called "sobrante," of the San Tacinto tract, is not questioned;
nor does the decree which is to be carried out by this survey
limit the location of the land otherwise than that it shall not
be more than eleven leagues, and that it shall be within the
outboundaries of this surplus.
There is a statement in the decree that the measurement of
the land thereby confirmed is to be commenced from the line
of the Estudillo grant as fixed by the act of judicial possession
to him, to which reference is made. We consider this last
description as nothing more than a statement that the land of
Estudillo previously granted within the boundaries of the
tract called San Sacinto shall be one of the boundaries of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court:

claim thus confirmed' and that the survey must not cover the
grant to Estudillo. :Reference is also made to a map contained in the expediente among the papers before the court.
The question presented would naturally divide Itself into
two parts, if there had been any allegation of an unintentional
or accidental mistake in the location of the grant; but the
plaintiffs in this case place themselves outside of the benefit of
this claim of mistake except as it may be so gross as to aid the
belief of an intentional fraud on the part of those-who made
it. The main issue, therefore, in the case is on the question of
actual fraud committed by those who made and established
the survey.
The principal foundation .on which this fraud is reste'd by
counsel is, that all the officers of the government below the'
Secretary of the Interior who had anything to'do with the
making, considering, confirming, or ratifying of tis survey
were interested in the claim, that the motive of the.fraud
was to include within- the survey certain lands which were
then known to contain mineral ores, believed to be immensely
valuable.; and that for this purpose the survey was distorted
and wrenched from its proper place in order to cover these
mineral deposits. As will. be shown hereafter, most of the
persons charged with having such interest, and with being in
position to influence the location of the land by the surveyor,
never had any interest m it at all until after the survey was
made and confirmed and the patent issued to the claimant.
If this be true, of course they were under no temptation to do
wrong, and the fraudulent motive attributed to them could
have had no existence.
MNrr. Edward Conway, who had previously bought the property and received the conveyance of the title from the claimant before the patent issued, asserts in his testimony that at
the -time the survey was made and was pending before the
Land Office he was the only owner of the property, and that
no one had any interest, equitable or otherwise, in it but
himself. After this he organized a corporation, to which the
title of the property was conveyed, which undertook to work
the tin mines found upon it, and most of these persons so

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

289

Opinion of the Court.
liberally charged with fraud in the survey are those who
became stockholders therein.
The main instrument of this fraud, according to the theory
of plaintifts counsel, was Conway, who it is charged owned
the.whole or at least the predomnnating interest in the grant
at the time the survey was made. At that time he was chief
clerk in the office of the Surveyor General of the United
States for California, and during the period when it was under
consideration therein, as well as in the General Land Office
and before the Secretary of the Interior. It is charged that
he was often the acting Surveyor General, and that this survey
was made under his control and direction while he was thus
interested as owner of the claim.
It is also charged that George H. Thompson, a deputy
surveyor, acting under the Surveyor General and said Conway,
intrusted with the duty of making this particular survey, was
also interested in the claim with Conway, as well as one Hancock, at some time a clerk in the Surveyor General's office.
It is asserted further that the survey was not actually made
upon the ground, but as a matter of fact in the office of the
Surveyor General by said Conway, Thompson, and Hancock,
solely for the purpose of surreptitiously securing letters patent
upon the land described and included in the survey and plat,
the motive in mislocating said land being that these parties
believed that the land so surveyed contained valuable lodes of
tin and other mineral ores.
The deposition of Conway was taken during the progress
of the suit. He was then sixty years old. He states in that
deposition that at-the time it was given he had no interest
whatever in the San Jacinto Tin Company, or in the lands
which were the subject of controversy, that he had long since
parted with hi§ shares in the stock of that company, some of
which were sold for assessments which he was unable to pay.
Uie gives a history of his connection with the claim, and with
the land office during its pendency before it, and also states
the connection that other parties sustained to this transaction
who are asserted to have been interested in it during that
time. It seems to be a fair and candid statement of all the
VOL. c=v-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

facts about whiQh hd'was interrogated. He contradicts hunself nowhere during a long examination and cross-examination,
-and he is not anywhere successfully contradicted by other
testimony in the case. He appears to have been sincerely
anxious to tell the whole truth, and if his statement is to be
believed he had no interest to do otherwise.
MNr. Conway states that during the years 1864, 1865, and
1866 he was chief clerk in the office of the United Shates Surveyor General for California, in San Francisco; that he entered
that office in the fall of 1857, resigned in December, 1866, and
agaon entered it on Tanuary 1, 1868, and remained there until
December, 1869, his longest service being as chief clerk, although he commenced at a lower grade. 'He served under
,Surveyors General Mfandeville, Beale, and Upson, and during
the entire terms of the two latter with the exception of the
year stated. He testifies that the approval of surveys could
only be made by the Comnnissioner of the General Land Office,
who was furnished with the field-notes and plats which were
certified to be qorrect by the Surveyor General, who also made
a report of his action for the approval or disapproval of that
officer; that the first connection he had with the sobrante San
Jacinto Viejo y Nuevo was in. 18683; that he then told Surveyor General Beale that he.wished to resign his place as chief
clerk, as he had offers -of other business, amongst which was
one from Mr. ancock, then a major-in the army of the
United States, who informed him that he had control of this
sobrante and also of the Rancho San Jacinto Nuevo that is,
of the metals that were in those ranchos-and he wished him
to take charge of the business.
Throughout the whble of this story the early connection of
Hancock and Conway with the sobrante clain seems to have
been under a right purchased by Hancock from Mrs. Agirre
of the mineral products thereof, without any claim to a general
grant of the land. The witness Conway says that Surveyor
General 3eale told him, upon being informed' of the above
facts, that they constituted no objection to his remaining in
the office, and that he did not wish to part with him. Fe
says: "1I told him I felt a little delicacy about it, and he

UNIrTED STATES. v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

291

Opinfoif of the Court.

answered that he would look out for the interest of the United
States. When Surveyor General Upson came into office I informed hn of the circumstances; that I was interested, not in
the rancho, but in the veins of metals that were supposed to
be there; told hn'that -I wished to have nothing to do with
the survey -to have no connection with ig- and any reports
he wished on -thematter he must get from other officers. In
April1 1866, the owner of the sobrante offered it for sale for
$8000; I think- it was $3000 cash and $5000 on time on a
I
mortgage."
He then went on to state that he enlisted Mrr. Charles Hosmer, who advanced him the money for the cash payment; and
he, Conway, then agreed to hold in trust for him one-eighth of
the estate and repay him his advance out of the first proceeds;
that the survey of the sobrante was made in 1864: at the request of the grantee, through her attorneys, Patterson and
Stow, acting under the authority of M[ajor Hancock, and in
regard to this transaction he testifies as follows:
"Edward F. Beale was the Surveyor General at the time,
and he issued the instructions for the survey. The deputy
who was directed to make the survey of the sobrante was
George H. Thompson. Neither Surveyor General Beale nor
Thompson had any interest, present or contingent, in the
sobrante at that time, or any promise of any interest. I know
positively that they had no interest or promise of interest.
Surveyor General Beale has never owned any interest in the
sobrante rancho, nor ever ovned any stock in the San Jacmto
Tin Company,, either by himself or in.trust, or in any other
manner. The survey was made by Thompson in Beale's time
and under his instructions."
It further appears from his testimolay 'hat the survey having
been forwarded to the department at Washington, it was there
decided that the act of -June 2, 1862, 12 Stat. c. 90, 410, under
which the survey was made did not apply to California, and it
was .returned to the office in San Francisco, with instructions,
the act of July 1, 1861, 13 Stat. c. 191,332, having been passed
in the meantime, to have it advertised according to the provisions of that statute. By this act the survey and its plat

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinon of the Court.

and field-notes were to be open for public inspection- for ninety
days after the expiration of the four consecutive weeks of publication which was provided for; then if objections were made
to the survey within that time by any party claiming to have
an interest in the tract embraced by it, or in any part thereof,
they were to be reduced to writing, stating distinctly the interest of. the objector, and signed by him or his attorney., and
filed with the Surveyor General, together with such affidavits
or other proofs as he might produce in support of the objection; and at the expiration of said ninety days the'Surveyor
General was bound to transmit to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office at Washington a copy of the survey and
plat, with the objections and proofs filed in support of them,
and also copies of any proofs produced by the claimant, all of
winch the Commissioner was to examine into, and approve the
survey or return the same for correction. All this Conway
testifies was done. He says: " Exceptions -were taken to the
survey by Abel Stearns, the owner of the Sierru Rancho on
the north, and of the rancho that he claimed as the Temescal
on the west. Surveyor General Upson ordered the survey
reforme'd in order to leave space on the north for the Sierra,
according to the juridical possession, of one league in width
from the Santa Ana River." In all this the witness is confirmed by the records of land offices.
The witness stated that he took no part whatever in these
proceedings with reference to either survey, and upon being
asked if he exercised.any control with respect to tins sobrante
claim or the survey thereof, said: "I simply gave notice to
the Surveyors General, Beale 'and Uipson, of my interest in
this rancho, and after that I had nothing to do with it. The
report was made by Mr. Hopkins, and I acted in the same
manner as a judge would on the bench if he was interested in
the case - step down and out." Hie also says that the instructions in regard to the mode of executing the survey came
from the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
The witness then proceeded to state the facts connected
with his acquisition of this property, as follows :
1 "I made my first purchase of an interest in this sobrante
on

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO T1X CO.

293

Opinion of the Court.

I
.
the 3d of April, 1866, the only purchase I made;
purchased it from Manuel Ferrer and his wife, Maria del
Rosario Estudillo de Aguirre. She was the original grantee
of the rancho. Her husband jomed with her in the deed. No
person was interested with me in that purchase, either before
or upon the receipt of the deed, except Mr. Hosmer, as I
before stated. That was the only interest except my owvn.
I had that deed recorded m the office of the county recorder
of San Bernardino County on the 30th of April, 1866. From
April 3d, 1866,.until April 30th, 1866, I was in San Francisco.
The deed was executed in San Diego and sent up to me, and I
sent it down for record immediately. .
In addition to
myself and AHr. Hosmer, no person except Jeremiah S. Black
and William H. Lowery, attorneys-at-law, of Washington,
were interested in that sobrante subsequent to the date of
that deed, April 3, 1866, and prior to the date of that patent."
This was the period during wich the survey was pending
in the office of the Connussioner having charge of public
lands, awaiting his approval, and -witness says that during
fhat period no interest in the sobrante was held in trust for
any other person, to his knowledge, except those mentioned;
that Black and Lowery were his attorneys in the case of the
Rancho Sobrante San Jacinto before the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and the Secretary of the Interior, and
the consideration which they paid for the interest which he,
Conway, held for them was their service as attorneys in the
matters mentioned. He further says -that he resigned his
positioii in the Surveyor General's Office about December 10,
1866, and proceeded-to Washington, returning in December,
1867. He then goes on to recount his acquaintance in that
city with Joseph 1t Wilson, Commissioner of the General
Land Office, and several other persons mentioned, and to deny
that either or any of them were interested with him in any
manner whatever in the sobrante, by purchase or otherwise,
directly or indirectly, before his return from Washington on
that occasion. He proceeds to say in the further history of
the matter that when he returned from Washington, in December, 1867, he thought it best to form a corporation for the

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

purpose of working the ores in the mines, and offered interests
to gentlemen whom he thought responsible, and calculated to
further the joint interests of the corporation; that on the 3d
day of Xanuary, 1868, the corporation was formed, and became
the ovner of the property, that it agreed to pay off the mortgage, assume the indebtedness to Hlosiner and pay him, Conway, $7500, and allow him to retain a certain number of the
shares of its stock,. which he afterwards states to be about
one-sixth of the sum at which it was capitalized, and that all,
this was done.
Mr. R. C. Hopkins, who is charged as interested in this
property and contributing to the successful fraud in the location of the land in controversy, states in his deposition that he
was then sixty-seven years of age; that he was in the office of
the United States Surveyor General for Califorma from 1855
until 1879, having charge of the Spanish archives, which
included the records of the grants made by the governments
of Sparn and Mexico. Of this witnSs it may be generally
stated that he was shown to .be a man of very high character,
exceedingly useful to the government on account of his
familiarity with and -control of these valuable documents,
ond very much relied on by all persons interested in the
iocation of surveys in that country or in the validity of Mexican grants.
In regard to this particular transaction he states that he
was in that office, in the capacity of keeper of the archives, in
1864, when the survey was made which is the subject of controversy, at which time Mr. Beale was Surveyor General;
that he saw the written application made by Hancock, through
Patterson, for a survey of the rancho at that time, and probably wrote the instructions for it to be made. Upon being
asked who was the deputy surveyor who made the survey, he
said'that it was George I. Thompson. He was then asked,
"By whom-was he selected ." to which he replied, "I don't
know, but I presumne that the Surveyor General appointed
hini on Ins own motion;" and proceeded to say that the
instructions were signed by the Surveyor -General. He was
then asked, "Was there any person in the Surveyor Generl's

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

295

Opinion of the Court.

office at that time who had any interest in this grant?" to
which he replied, "To my knowledge, no." The inquiry was
then made, "Do you know of any reason, object, or purpose
in locating that grant on the part of anybody in the office
other than to locate it according to the decree of confirmation? " to which he answered, "I do not." "1Had you any
interest in this matter before the issuance of patent?" To
this he replied, "lNo, sir; neither directly nor indirectly." He
was then asked if either Upson or Beale, the Surveyors General, or Wilson, the Commissioner of the.General land Office,
or Thompson, the deputy who made the survey, or Whiting'
had any interest in the claim prior to the issuance of the
patent; to which he answered m each case that they had not.
He was afterwards interrogated about some shares of the
stock of this company, which, he said, he had accepted from
Conway as a sort of compensation for previous losses in other
speculation, and upon which he paid large assessments and
finally gave them up because he was unable or unwilling to
continue the payments required.. Hanock, Upson, and Wilson, he states, are dead.
He also testifies, that, with the fullest knQwl1dge of the
surveys and papers, and after an examination of the records
in the office at San Francisco, it seems to him that it would be
impossible to attempt to locate the rancho in any other way
so as to conforn). to the decree of the court, and that this land
is located within the general ]niits of the tract called San
Jacinto, and did conform'to that decree. Upon being asked
if -it
was possible for hnn to be mistaken about this matter, he
replied: "I don't think so; it is a question of landmarks that
are unmistakable m their location, having historical names; it
is hardly a matter in which judgment is to be much exercised,
but is a matter of fact; at least, I looked upon it at that time
as such, when I made this report." To the question, " Was
that location made arbitrarily, without reference to courses
or distances, or under the direction or dictation of Conway?"
he answered: 1I think it was made under the instructions of
the Surveyor General; I prequme, without any dictation from
any one. There were probably some instructions to follow,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

when public lands were surveyed, the lines of the public
surveys. .
That survey, I presume, was made in accordance with the decree of the District Court, and with all
the data that could be obtained."
It appears also that Hopkins made the report of the survey
to the Surveyor General, and that he does not doubt that it
was correctly made.
The deposition of Thompson, the deputy who made the
survey, was taken, and his examination of several hundred
pages is mainly confined to his acts in regard to it and the
means which he had-for making it correctly. On this branch
of the subject it is sufficmnt to say that his statement is very
clear to the effect that the survey was properly located,
although he admits that he did not go upon the land but
made the location, under directions from the Surveyor Gen-.
eral, from maps in his office showing the actual objects which
constituted the outboundaries of the sobrante and the other
locations which had priority to tins.
During his examination he was asked what he knewv about
the ownership of the claim at the time the surveys were made.
To this he replied in effect, that he did not know Conway
was the owner; that he understood the request for the survey
proceeded from Hancock, or from attorneys employed by
Hancock, who represented the grantee m the decree of confirmation. He nowhere intimates, nor was he at any time
asked, whether he had an interest in the survey at that time,
and there is in fact a total failure to establish the allegation
that he had any interest whatever, either present or prospective, in the claim when the survey was made by him, or was
influenced by anybody who had.
Without going farther into the nnnutize of the testimony
on this subject, we are of opinion that there is no evidence
that establishes any interest in the claim under.consideration
prior to the issuance of the patent in any man who was
connected with the land department of the government,
wheth3r as Surveyor General, deputy surveyor, clerk, or otherwise, except Conway; that Conway's intbrest was well known
to the Surveyors General, who at different times had charge

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

297

Opinion of the Court.

of this matter, as wel" as to theCommissioner of the General
Land Office, and the Secretary of the Interior who finally
passed upon it, and that he abstained from any interference
with the making of the survey or the officers who had it in
charge, except that probably while he was in Washington he
looked after its confirmation.
The attempt to deduce an inference of fraud, in the establishment of this survey and the final issue of the patent, from
the circumstance that, after its issue, and when Conway had
become the sole owner of the property, he with many other
persons of distinction, some of whom were engaged in other
branches of the government service, and some conuecfed with
the land department, co5perated to organize a joint stock
company for its development and improvement, the shares of
which they took and upon which they paid many assessments,
and from the further fact that a very few of them may have
received such stock as compensation for aid rendered to Conway in his struggle to establish the title is, we think, entirely
repelled by the testimony, which shows that none of these
persons had any interest in it at the time the fraudulent trans-'
actions are alleged to have occurred. It does not appear that
the stock which they got was in any sense a compensation for
services rendered in establishing the survey, except in the case
of Black and Lowery, who were the attorneys employed for
that purpose and received some of its shares as their compensation. To hold that these parties, such as 4opkins,
Thompson, Upson, and perhaps others, when they found the
stock of a corporation for sale which had promise of profit
in it, by taking its shares became _arti4 s crimini in a
conspiracy to defraud the government, of which they knew
nothing at the time the fraud is alleged to have been committed, and that the mere fact of their taking these shares
of stock is evidence they took paxt in the conspiracy, is a
species of logic on which patents granted by the United States
should not be set aside.
We do not hesitate to say that there is a total failure of
evidence to establish any participation in this fraud -on the
part of any of the persons in the service of the government,

298

OCTOBER. TERM

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

who are charged with having been engaged in it. While we
do not wish to give countenance to the idea that an officer of
the government, before whom any matter mav come for his
action, or to be acted upon in his office, shoiAd voluntarily
acquire an interest in such matter, even though he disclose
that interest, but, on the contrary, think that he should accept
no such delicate position; nevertheless- that circumstance
alone hould not be permitted to divest the rights of others,
unless it be shown that such position was used in aid of an
actual fraud.
As to Conway, who had the principal, if not the sole, interest which could induce an effort to secure the false location of
the grant, there is no sufficient evidence in tho record to show
that he undertook in any way to control the actual survey of
this land. R[is testimony, given at a time when he could have
had no pecuniary interest in the result of this suit, and delivered with a candor and apparent readiness to answer promptly
all quesions put to him, without any of the evasive expressions,
such as, "I don't know," or "I cannot remember," so commonly used by false witnesses, commands our confidence.
The strongest argument against the commission of any fraud,
and in favor of the correctness of the location of the grant by
the survey, is to be found in the fact that it went through all
the different offices in the land department to which it could
possibly..be taken, from its being filed by Thompson in the
office of the Surveyor General up to its consideration by the
Secretary of the Interior himself, and in all these offices ample
time was given for careful examination, and an actual scrutiny
of the matter was made by reason of the contest of Stearns,
who succeeded in having the lines of the survey changed, so
as to exclude property in which he was interested. After this
change was made, it was again brought before the Commissioner and argued by counsel on both sides, and considered in
"tlie light of all the facts which either party chose to bring
before the office, and abundant time was given for its investigation. Mr. Wilson, the Commisioner, was a man of many
years' experience in the class of cases to which thns belongs,
and which he was then called upon to decide. He made a full

UNITED STATES v. SAIZ JACINTO TIN CO.

299

Opinion of the Court.

report, which is in the-record, to the Secretary of the Interior,
Hon. 0. H. Browning, a lawyer of eminence and a man accustomed to weighing testimony, who, after having the case under
consideration from May 22, 1867, to October 19 of the same
year, made the following decision, which he referred back to
the Commissioner of the General Land Office for execution:
"Sir: I have receivecl your letter of the 22d 'May last, submitting for consideration the papers of the private land claim
in C4lifornia known as the ISQbrante de San Tacinto,' and
aslnnd for instructions on the ' application for a patent to issue
in accordance with the survey approved by the Surveyor General of California.' A careful examination of the papers and
consideration of the arguments of counsel have led me to concur in your opinion that all the requirements of the law liave
been complied with, and that [the] patent should issue in accordance with the survey2'
We consider this examination of the case in the office' of the
Commissioner and its refxamination by the Secretary of the
Interior as possessing the very strongest probative force in
regard to the question of fraud, which was mooted before
them, as well as the question of the proper location of the
grant. NTo stronger evidence could be given of the honesty of
Commissioner Wilson and his belief in the correctness of the
survey than the fact of his reference of the whole matter tothe Secretary of his own motion without any appeal by either
party from his decision. They had in the Land Office abundant materials for the investigation of.all the matters in disputb; they had before them the interested parties, with all the
evidence which they could collect, the records, the :exican
archives and control of all thL papers of the government since
the territory came into the possession of the United States, as
well .as ample time, more than this -court has, to consider all
these sdbjects. Very little that is new or that throws any light
upon fhe questions at issue is now produced on the hearing of
this case.
With regard. to the question of fraud, we have no hesitation
in saying that there is no such ease made of intentional fraud,
or actual fraud, committed .upon.the.government of the United

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

States in this transaction as justifies the cancellation of the
patent. We have quite recently given our views upon this
subject very freely in the .Aazwew La
Ltnd Grant Case, 121 U. S.
8925, m regard to the character of the testimony necessary to
set aside such a solemn instrument as a patent of the United

States. It was there held, p. 381, "that when in a court of
equity it is proposed to set aside, to annul, or to correct a
written instrument for fraud or mistake in the execution
of the instrunient itsel, the testimony on which this is done
must be clear, unequivocal, and convincing, and that it cannot
be done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves
the issue in doubt. If the proposition, as thus laid down in
-the cases cited, is sound in regard to the ordinary contracts of
private individuals, how much more should it be observed
where the attempt is to annul the grants, the patents, and
other solemn evidences of title emanating from the government
of the United States under its official seal."
S6 far from there being the satisfactory evidence here
pomted"out of a fraud against the government having been
perpetrated in this case, there is really little but suspicion,
fierce denunciation, and a bitter use of such words as "fraud,"
"deceit" and "imposition." If the case stood alone upon the
testimony introduced by the government it would, so far as
any fraudulent purpose is concerned, do but little more than
raise a suspicion that the parties engaged in the transaction
sought their own interest at the expense of the government,
and not always'by the most appropriate means; but when the
testimony for the defence is considered it refutes, not only the
existence of any such fraudulent intent or dishonest acts, but
it removes from the main actors in the matter even the suspicion of having used underhand and improper means for the
accomplishment of their purposes.
As regards the correctness of the location by survey of the
grant, whose validity and justice is not questioned, we do not
know that we can do better than to copy the language of the
circuit judge presiding when the decree was rendered. In his
opinion delivered, on that occasion, and concurred in by the
district 3udge, he said - * It is confidently assumed on the part

UNITED STATES v. SAT JACINTO TIN CO.

301

Separate Opimon of Mr. Justice Field.

of complainant that the location of the lands patented is palpably wholly outside of the exterior limits described in the
original petition, Mtexican grant, and the decree of confirmation; that this is so obvious that the grant must have beei
wilfully and fraudulently located where it is. This is an assumption that, in our judgment, is wholly without justification
in the documentary and other evidence in the case. Upon a
careful consideration of the subject we are of the opinion that
the most that can be reasonably said against the location is,
thai the record presents a fair case for an honest difference of
opinion; that a plausible argument can honestly be made in
support of either side of the proposition. An erroneous location is certainly not so obvious as to necessarily stamp it as a
fraud."
When we consider the greater facilities possessed by the
land department of the government for ascertaining the true
location, and their superior fitness for deciding questions pertaining thereto, over those of the judicial department; and
when we also remember that this location underwent.the scratiny of the officers in the office of the. Surveyor General for
California, as well as those of the General Land Office at
Washington, and even of the Secretary of the Interior himself, and was finally approved by them all, we are not disposed
to make further inquiry as to whether the location was in all
respects in exact accordance with what it might possibly be if
.a resurvey were made under the additional light, if any, now
thrown upon the subject.
The result of all these considerations is, that

177w decree of the Circuit Court is atzed.
Mmn. JusTIoB Fmm,concurring:

I concur in affirming the decree of the court below dismissng the bill in this case. The .bill was filed to set aside a
patent of the United States issued to Mfaria del Rosario Estudillo de Aguirre, and her heirs, for land situated in Southern
California, in what is now known as San Bernardino County,
granted to her by the Mexican government. The grant was

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Separate Opinion. of Mr. Justice Field.

of the sobrante, or surplus lands remaining within the bounda
ties of a tract called San Jacmto, after satisfying two previous
grants. The claim under it was presented to the Board of
Land Commissioners created by the act of Congress of March
3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, c. 41, to ascertain and settle private land
claims in California, and was adjudged to be valid to the extent of five leagues. On appeal to the District Court of the
tUnited States for the Southern District of Califorma, the
claim was confirmed to the surplus land lying within the designated boundaries, not exceeding in extent eleven square
leagues. The case" being brought to this court, the latter
decree was affirmed. The judgment here was rendered at the
December term, 1863. Then followed a protracted contest,
accompanied with much feeling, for the location of the claim.
There being within the San Jacinto tract a tin mine, then supposed to contain a rich body of metal, every step in the survey
was contested. "Witnesseswere examined, and repeated arguments made by counsel representing the parties for and against
the location sought. As there were no boundaries of the
sobrante marked, by which the claim could be specifically designated, much was left to the judgment of the Surveyor General, after havung examined the topography of the country,
and heard the statements of witnesses familiar with it. The
limitation made by the grant itself only required that the
claim should be located within the exterior boundaries of the
San Jacinto, and not encroach upon the land covered: by
the previous grants. In the determination of the-survey and
location several years were occupied. The matter was aL different times before all officers of the Land Department whose
judgment could control any of the several steps of the proceedings, the United States Surveyor General.for the State,
tie Commissioner of the General Land Office, and the Secretary of the Interior. Every objection now urged against the
survey as ground for revoking the patent was taken before
thiem, fully argued, and held to be untenable. At length, on
the 26th day of October, 1867, a patent was issued to the
claimants, from whom the defendant, the San Jacinto Tin.
Company, derives its title.

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.

308

Separate Opinion of-Mr. Justice Field.
In April, 1883, after the compan-IIfad been in fossession of
the property for nearly sixteen.years, and after al, the other
land within the exterior boundaries of the San Jacinto tract
had been patented to the previous grantees, or sold by tie
United States, so that if the location and survey, on which the
patent was issued, could be set aside, there would be no laud
left to satisfy the grant without annulling titles which the
United States had conveyed to other parties, this suit was
brought. And it was not brought upon any new fact produced, nor any new reason assigned why the original survey
should be disturbed. All the grounds of complaint presented
for the new litigation had been urged, and fully considered
before. And as if convinced that no beneficial result could
come to the United States frdm the reopening of tho old controversy; as if afraid that the United States might be cast in
the litigation, a bond was taken from one R. S. Baker; with
sureties, to keep the United States harmless from all costs and
expenses which might be incurred by or against them in the
presecution of the suit. The original contest upon the survey
was carried on, and the expenses of it borne, by one Abel
Stearns. Since his death this 1. S. Baker married the widow
of Stearns, aud has sought to retry the issues as to the survey
which were decided and determined in the :land Department
years before, when Abel.Stearns was living. The bond recites.
that "the Attorney General of the United States of America
has this day filed, at the request of the above named R. S.
Baker, a bill in equity in the name of and on behalf of said
United States of America against the San Jacinto Tin Company" to vacate the patent.. Not for the interest of the
United States, not for the protection of their property, or to
vinidicate their hoeor, but at the request of a-private litigant,
the name and power of the United States are invoked by the
Attorney General to set aside a patent issued after a protracted
contest upon the survey with the predecessor of this litigant.
If f iis were a solitary instance where the name and power
of the United States have been used to serve the interests of
private parties, it nmght be passed by with the simple statement of -the facts. But, unfortunately, it is not a solitary

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Separate Opinion of Mr. Justice Field.

instance. The records of tns court show thdt it has been a
frequent practice of the Department of Justice m authorizing
suits for the cancellation of patents. In United 8tates v.
17'ockmortn, 98 U. S. 61, which was here at ,the October
term, 1878, it appeared that the District A.ttorney of California
was directed by the Attorney General to bring suits to vacate
patents for lands in that State, upon security being given by
one John B. Howard, or a deposit made by hn of a sufficient
sum to defray the expenses which might be incurred m the
litigation; and the bills filed upon such authority were not
sworn to, nor even authenticated by the signature. of the
Attorney General In this case the bill bears the signature
of the Attorney General in office at. the time it was filed.
His signature gives some assurance, which was wanting in the
Throckmorton case, of his belief in its allegations, anud that the
suit is really brought by the United States to protect their
rights, and not merely to promote the interests of privat
individuals. In that and other cases, brought on the authority
of the Attorney General, the patents embraced many thousand
acres of land, and one of the 3udges holding the Circuit Court
observed that: "It is not to be supposed that if the Attorney
General were persuaded that so large and valuable a property
belonged to the United States he would have made the assertion df its rights to depend upon the willingness or ability of
-onvate individuals to defray the expense of the litigation."'
United States v. -Mint,4: Sawyer, 42, 83. In the present case
the bill seeks, by setting aside a patent of the United States,
to restore eleven leagues of land to the public domain. And
yet, so doubtful did the Attorney General appear to consider
the rights of the United States to tns vast tract, that he
required fiom the party, at whose instance the suit was
brought, a bond of indemnity against the expenses of the
proceeding.
In commenting upon a similar bond, when the case of
ITrocimorton was here,, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Miller, said- "It would be a very dangerous doctrine, one
threatening the title to millions of acres of land held by patent
from the government, if any man who has a grudge or a claim

UNITED -STATES v. SAX"JACINTO TIN CO.

306

Separate Opinion of Mr. Justice Field.

against his neighbor can, by indemnifying the government for
costs, and furnishing the needed stimulus to a district attor"ney, institute a suit in chancery in.the [name of the] United
States to declare the patent void. It is essential, therefore, to
such a suit, that, without special regard to form, but in some
way ihiehh the court can recognize, it should appear that the
Attorney General has brought it himself, or given such order
for its institution as will make him officially responsible for it,
and show his control of the cause." p. 71. And yet this requirement does not seem to have been potential enough to
induce such an examination oT the rights of the United States
as.to justify in the present case the attempt to enforce them
without security from private parties.'
I cannot admit that the Attorney General can, at the request
of private parties, rightfully allow the use of the name and
power of the United States in proceediags for the annulment
of patent§, upon such parties executing a bond as security for
costs, or upon any other stipulation of ihdernnity to them. If
the United States have not sufficient interest in property to
justify the expenses of proper litigation for its maintenance,
they had much better let it go. It would seem that Congress
designed to put its mark of condemnation upon: the practice of
obtaining services from private parties, without incurring
liabilities for them, such as was adopted in.this case, when, on
May 4, 1884, it declared that "hereafter no Department or
officer of the United States shall accept voluntary service for
the government, or employ personal service in excess-of that
-authorized by law, except in cases of sudden emergency involving the loss of human lifelor the destruction of property."
23 Stat. 1I, c. 37. The language here used clearly indicates
that the government shall not, except in the emergencies mentioned. place itself under obligations to any one. The puinciple conaemned is the same, whether the party rendering the
service does so without any charge or because paid by other
parties. The government is forbidden to accept the service in
either case.
It is not to be supposed that any he&d of the Department of
Justice has or would intentionally lend the name and power
VOL. CXXV-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Sepaite Opinion of Mr. Justice Field.

of the government to further private ends, and yet there is no
practical difference between that course of procedure and the
one adopted in this zase. .The opinion of the court shows
above all controversy the utter groundlessness of the bharges
upon which it is sought to set aside the sur.ve3F. A very little
attention to the proceedings had before the Land Department
in the contest upon that survey would have satisfied the
Attorney General of the futility of any attempt to disturb it,
and it is not probable that he' would have authorized any.
But indepen~iently of these considerations I cannot assent
to the position announced in the opinion of the 6-urt, that the
Attorney General has unlimited authority by virtue of his
office to institute suits to set aside patents issued by the government. Hie is the head of the Department of Justice, and
as such he is charged with the superintendence and direction
of all district attorneys -of the United States, and generally
of all litigation in which the -United States are interes.ted. He
is also the legal dvser of the heads of the executive departments, and if they are fraudulently imposed upon in the discharge of their duties, or have mistaken the law, he may at
their request take such legal pxaceedings as are necessary to
correct their errors and revoke their action. The legislation
of Congres points out the infinite variety of cases where-legal
proceedings may be taken on behalf of the United States in
the enforcement of their rights, the protection of their property, and the punishment of offences, and wherever no authority is conferred by statute express or implied for the institution
of suits, none in my judgment exists. Whenever Congress has
felt it important that patents for lands should be revoked,
either because of fraud in their issue, or of breach of conditions m them, it has not failed tn authorize legal proceedings
for that purpose. In a multitude of cases titles to lands, upon
wlch whole communities live, rest upon patents of the United
States In several instances, cities having more than a hundrecl'thousand people residing within theii! limits are built on
land ptented by the government. I cannot believe that it is
within the power of the Attoraey General, to be exercised at
no
any time in the future, this generation or the next -as

UNITED STATES v. SAN JACINTO TIN CO.
Separate Opinion of Mr. Justice Field.

statute of limitations runs against the government - to institute suits to unsettle the title founded upon such patents, even
where there are allegations of fraud in obtaining them. There
must be a time when such allegations will not be heeded. The
examination into alleged frauds, when the patents are applied
for, ought to close all controversy respecting them; clearly so,
unless, upon newly discovered evidence of the most convincing
character, Congress should direct proceedings to be instituted
to set aside the patents, and that result can be obtained without impairing the title of innocent parties. The power of the
Attorney General, if admitted when a single person h6lds
title under-a patent, may be exercised in cases vwere a whole
community holds under a similar instrument. If, without the
authority of Congress, such proceedings may be instituted by
him upon the repetition, as in this case, of old charges, or
upon the unsupported statements of interested parties, a cloud
may at any moment be cast upon the titles of a whole people
and there would be in his hands a tremendous weapon of
vexation and oppression. I qan never assent to the position
that there exists in any officer of the government a power so
liable to abuse and so dangerous to the peace of many communities.
I do not recognize the doctrine that the Attorney General
takes any power by virtue of his office except what the Constitution and the laws confer. The powers of the executive
officers of England are not vested in the executive officers of
the United States government, sumply because they are called
by similar names. It is the theory, and I may add, the glory
of our institutions, that they are founded" upon law, that no
one can exercise any authority over the rights and interests of
others except pursuant to and in the manner authorized by
law.
In the case of The Floyd Accptameq, 7 Wall. 666, 676,
srealing of the powers of an officer of the government-in that
case of the Secretary of War -this court said: "When this
inquiry arises, where are we to look for the -authority of the
officer? The answer which at. once suggests itself to one
familiar with the structure of ourtgovernment, in which all

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Separate Opimon of Mr. Justice Field.

power is delegated, and is defined by law, constitutional or
statutory, is, that to one or both of these sources .we must
resort in every instance. We have no officers in this government, from-the President, down to the most subordinate agent,
who does;not hold office under the law, with prescribed duties
and limited authority."
If the Attorney General possesses the powers ascribed to
him in the absence of any law defining them, we have this
singular condition presented, that the owner of property
derived from the United States by the most solemn instruments,
holds his possession subject to the liability that it may be
disturbed at any time by a suit of ihe government, brought
at the will of that officer,, a not very creditable commentary
on our institutions; but if the owner can trace his title to some
other source, he may have a reasonable degree of certainty
that he -will not be unnecessarily disturbed.
Asidi from the qualifications thus expressed to the views of
the court, there is much in the .opinion which gives me .great
satisfaction. It holds that in suits brought by the government
for relief against an instrument alleged to have been obtained
by fraud or deceit, or any practice which would justify a court
in granting relief, the government must show, like a private
mndividtial, that it has such an interest in the relief sought as
entitles it to move in the matter. If it be a question of property, a case must be made in which the court can afford a
remedy-in regard to that property, if it be a question of fraud,
which would render the instrument void, the fraud must
operate to the prejudice of the United States, and if it is
apparent that the suit is brought for the benefit of some third
party, and that the United States have no pecuniary interest
in the remedy sought, and are under no obligation to the party,
who will be benefited, to sustain an action for his use; in short,
if there does not appear any obligation on the part of the
United States to the public, or to any individual, or any
interest of their own, they can no more sustain such an action
than any private person could under similar circumstances.
From this ruling some degree of peace and security may
come to holders of titles derived by patent -from the government.

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Syllabus.

From the clear and full statement, in the opini6n of the
court, of the case and of the controversies before the L~and
Department, involving the same questions now presented,
there can be but one conclusion, and that Is, that the decree
below dismissing the bill was in consonance with justice and
right.

CLEMENT -v. PACKER.
ERROR TO TBM

CMUr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

W.ESTEWR

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 143. Argued January 23, 24, 188.-DecIded March 19,1888.

An assignment, as error, that the court below rejected certain patents of
land offered in evidence by the plaintiff Is fatally defective, if the record
does not contain copies of the patents.
In an action of ejectment in a Circuit Court of. the United States, sitting
in the State of Pennsylvania, which involves a question concerning the
location of the boundary of a private estate, that rale of evidence
respecting the admission of d&clarations of deceased persons touching
the disputed boundary which is laid down by the highest court of that
State is the rule to govern the action of the Circuit Court at the trial;
and it is well settled in that State that declarations of a deceased person
touching the locality of a boundary which was surveyed and located by
him, which declarations were made td the witness in pointing out that
localitg, are admissible in evidence.
Hunnzcutt v. Peyton, 102-1". S. 333; and .Bllicott v. Pearl,10 Pet. 412, distinguished.
In Pennsylvania, original marks and livwngmonuments are the highest proof
of the location of a survey; the calls for adjoining surveys are the next
most important evidence of it; and it is only m the absence of both that
corners and distances returned by the surveyor to the land office -determine it.
Surveys constituting a block are not treated in Pennsylvania as separate
and individual surveys, but are to be located together as a block on one
large tract; and if the lines and corners of the block can be found, this
fixes its location, as they lVelong to each and every tract of the blobk as
much as they do to the particular tract whichi thoy adjoin.
When the location of a survey m Pennsylvania can be determined by its
own marks upon the ground, or by its own calls, courses, and distances,
it cannot be changed or controlled by the marks or lines of an adjoining
juntor survey; but when, by reason of the disappearance "of.these

