OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

This is sufficient to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction of
the case, without any averment of the citizenship of the
parties; and not only is the present suit in equity merely an
incident of and ancillary to the ejectment suit, but no other
court than the one which-rendered the judgment m the ejectment'ziit could interfere with it or stay process in it, on the
grounds set forth in the bill
finneaot Co. v. St. Paul Co.,
2 Wall. 609, 633; R&2ppendorf v. ~Myde, 110 U. S. 276;
Paot, .2ailroad v. Xiwsoun Pacfo 1?ailway, 111 U. S. 505.
The decree made by this court o the 16th of AriZ laMt is
therefore 'vacaed,aad the case will 8tandfor hearing ol
the ftwrits at the next term of this court, i* i order on the'
docket.

UTTED STATES v. BAKER.
APPEAL EROM THE
2No. 1894.

COURT OF CLAIM.

Submitted April 2, 1

-.-Declded April 18,1888.

A person who was appointed a mldshipma in the navy in September, 1867;

and an ensign -n July, 1872, and as to whom the lowest grade having
graduated pay held by him since last entering the service was, under the
act of July 15,1870, c. 295, 16 Stat. 330, § 3, that of ensign, Is entitled to

be credited, under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 97, 22 Stat. 473, with the
time he so served as a midshipman, on the ground that service as a midshipman, at the naval academy, was service as an officer in the navy.

Tun case is stated in the opinion.
3fr. Attorney General, -M. Assistant Aforney General
Howard, and 2fr. _F P. Dewees for appellant.
NP. John Paul 7ones and .lr.

Poberl'B..Zinev for ap-

pellee.
M-a. Jus=a

BraTaiorFoD delivered

the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the 'nited States from a.judgment of
the Court of Claims, awarding to the claimant $836.71, on the
following facts:

UNITED STATES v. flAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 30th of September, 1867, the claimant was appointed
a midshipman in the navy, by a form of appointment which
stated that, he was "appointe d to the grade of midshipman in
the United States Navy." By § 12 of the act of July 15,
1870, c. 295, 16 Stat. 334, it was provided that "the students
in the naval academy shall hereafter be styled cadet midshipmen;" and that, " when cadet midshipmen shall have passed
successfully the graduating examination at said academy, they'
shall receive appointments as midshipmen, ranking according,
to merit, and may be promoted to the grade of ensign as vacauciesfin the number allowed by law in that grade may occur."
After the passage of'that act, the form of appointment was
changed by strilng out the words "appointed to the grade of"
midshipman," and inserting the words "appointed a cadet.
midshipman;" bat no appointment in the amended form wasissued to the claimant. After completing his academic course
at Annapolis, the claimant was, on the 14th of July, 1872,
promoted to the grade of ensign; on the 6th of December,
1876, to that of master; and, on the 10th of January, 1884, to
that of lieutenant, in which grade he was serving when is
petition was filed.
By the act of March 3, 1883, c. 97, 22 Stat. 473, it was provided as follows: "And all officers of the navy shall be credited
with the actual time they may have served as officers or enlisted men in the regular or volunteer army or navy, .or both,
and shall receive all the benefits of such actual service in all
respects in the same manner as if all said service had been contmnuous and in the regular navy in the lowest grade having
graduated pay held by such officer since last entring the service." The claimant alleged in his petition that the lowest
grade having graduated pay held by him since last entering
the service was, under the act of July 15, 1870, c. 295,16 Stat.
330, § 3, now § 1556 of the Revised Statutes, that of ensign, and that he was, under the act of 1883, entitled to have
credit given to him upon his grade of ensign for all of his service prior to the date of his commission as ensign, namely, 4
years, 9 months, and 14 days, from September 30, 1867, to
July 14, 1872, which included all of the timin of his service as

OCTOBER TERM5 1887.
OpIMon of the Court.

midshipman. The question is as to whether he is entitled to
the difference of pay resulting from such credit. The Court of
Claims decided in his favor, awarding to him for that pay the
sum of $836.11.
The single question involved is whether the claimant, while
he was a midshipman, was serving as an officer or enlisted man
in the navy, within the meaning of the act of 1883. The con.
tention on the part of the United States is that the claimant,
wnilst a student at the naval academy, did not, in tho sense of
the act of 1883, serve either as an officer or an enlisted man;
and that, in that view, it is immaterial whether, as a student,
he is or is not to be regarded as an officer of the navy. It -is
denied by the United States that-the entry of a pupil into the
academy is his entry into the naval service, and that the period
of his pupilpge is actual service, within the meaning of the act
of 1883; and it is argued that.he does not enter into actual
service until he is appointed either in the line of the navy, the
marine corps, or the engineer corps; that, as a student, he does
not serve,.but is preparing to serve; that he does not render
service to the government, but is receiving favors from it; that
he can only commence service after his graduation, such service
depending upon his graduating merit; and that the compensation of $500 a year given to him is not a payment for-service
rendered, but is a gratuity and an allowance made to him for
his support in his preparation for service to be rendered.
When the claimant was appbinted a midshipman in the
navy, on the 30th of September, 1867, the act of July 16, 1862,
c. 183 (12 Stat. 583), was in force. The first section of
that act divides the active list of line officers of the navy into
nine grades, the first of which is "rear-admirals," the eighth
of which is "1ensigns," and the ninth of whidh is "midshipmen." The 11th section of that act provides that the students
at the naval academy shall be styled midshipmen,-until their
final graduating examination; when, if successful, they shall
be commissioned ensigns, ranking according to merit. Thus,
§ 1 of that act creates the grade -of midshipman as one.
of the inme grades of thi active list of line officers of the
navy, and § 11 declares that the students at the naval acad-

UNITED STATES v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

amy shall be styled midshipmen. If these statutory provisions were Dot varied as respects the claimant prior to July
14, 1872, when he was promoted to the grade of ensign, he
was all the time an officer in the line of the navy, and serving
as such officer.
Section 12 of the act of July 15, 1870, c. 295 (16 'Stat.
334), provides that the "students m the naval academy shall
hereafter be styled cadet midshipmen," and that., when they
"shall have passed successfully the graduating examination at
said academy, they shall receive appointments as midshipmen,
raulnig according to merit, and may be promoted to the
grade of ensign as vacancies in the number allowed by law in
that grade may occur." The provisions of that section do not
seem to have been applied to the case of the claimant. He
did not thereafter receive an appointment as cadet midshipman, nor does he appear to have received an appointment as
midshipman after he .passed successfully the graduating examination at the academy, but he was promoted to the grade of
ensign after he had completed his academic course at Annapolis.
It is very questionable whether the 12th section of the act
of 1870 applies to persons who had been theretofore appointed
midshipmen. It would rather seem to be limited in its provisions to persons thereafter to be appointed to the distinct
grade of cadet midshipmen, and therefore not to include the
case of ;he claimant. But, even if § 12 of the act of
1870 applies so far to those who were then students m the
naval academy, that they were thereafter to be styled cadet
midshipmen, yet they were still to discharge the same duties
as before, and be subject to the same naval diseipline and control as before, and to receive the same pay am before. We see
nothing in the act of 1870 to exclude the claimant from the
position which he occupied prior to the passage of that act, as
a member of a grade in the active list. of line officers of the
navy, so far as respected his service at the naval ac.demy
after the date of the, passage of that act, whether he Avas
thereafter to be styled a cadet midshipman or to continue to
be styled a midshipman.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Syllabus.

iNo legislation which took place after the 14th of July, 1872,
can affect the question arising under the act of 1883, as to his
service as an officer in the navy prior to the 14th of July,
1872. -Section 15 of the act of 1862 provided that the "annual pay of the several ranks and grades of officers of the
navy o4. the active list," thereinafter named, comprehending
the nine grades mentioned in the first section of the same act,
should be as thereinafter specified in the 15th section, and the
last provision was this: "MNidship m en shall receive five hundred
dollars."
It is impossible not to conclude that the claimant continued
to be, after the passage of the act of 1870, as he was prior to
its passage, an officer of the navy, on the active list, and serving as such an officer, by virtue of his having been appointed
a midshipman and continuing to be a student in the naval
academy, even though he might have been properly styled,
after the passage of the act of 1870, a cadet midshipman.
.The judgment of tk6 Court of Claims a rmd.

NUTT v. UMTED STATES.
APPBAI, FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
Ni'o. 1380. Submitted April 2,18$8. -Deeld edAri11, 1858.

Congress enacted August 7, 1882, 22 Stat. 739, ,, that the Quartermaster
General of the United States is hereby authorized to examine and adjust
the claims of Julia A. Nutt, widow and executrix of H ller iqutt, deceased,
late of iatchez, In the State of 31ississippi, growing ott of the occupation,and use by the United States Army during the late rebellion, of the

property of said Haler Nutt during is lifetime, br of his estate after
his decease, including live stock, goods, and moneys, taken and used by
the United States or the armies thereof; and he may consider the evidence heretofore taken on said claim, as far as applicable, before the
Commissioners of Claims, and such other evidence as may be adduced
before him on behalf of the legal representatives of Haller Nutt or on
behalf of the United States, and shall report the facts to Congress to be
considered with other claims reported by the Quartermaster General."
The Quartermaster General made the examination and reported td Con-

