OqTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

that, while the provisions of the act of 1869, amending the
original act of incorporation, were indefinite as -to the manner
in which stock held by the district should be voted on, the
acts of 18170 and 1873 did no more than make that certan
-which was before uncertain, or had been omitted from the
original act of incorporation, by giving the district a distinct
name and authorizing it to be represented by the county judge
and justices of the county, and providing a xemedy by which
the rights of the corporation might be asserted and its liabilities enforced; but that there had been no change of contract.
It thus appears that the State court, upon full consideration,
decided that the acts of 1870 and 1873 conferred no new
rights, but only defined more clearly the manner in 'which
the rights conferred by-the earlier statutes should be exercised,
and that it based its judgmeuts entirely upon the construction
and effect of the earlier, statutes, and upon grounds 'which
would have been .equally controlling if the later acts had not
been passed. The necessary conclusion is that this court has
no jurisdiction to review those judgments. Bank of WIest
Tennessee v. Citizens' Bank of Louizana,13"Wall. 482, . 0.
14 Wall. 9, Palmer v. Ifarston, 14 Wall. 10; Rennebec Railroad v, Portland Railroad, 14 Wall. 28; Stevenson v.
W'illiams, 19 Wall. 572; -Mew Orleans l1aterworke v Zouisiana Sugar Rqfintng Lo., ante, 18.
Writs of error dismissedfn' want of jvrzsdition.

DALE TILE M,ANUFAOTURING COMPANY v.
HlYATT.
EIROR TO THE CITY COURT OF iEW YORF.
No. 1232. Submittcl Ianunry 9, 188.-Decided .Nnich19, 1888.
An action upon an agreement in writing, by which, in consideration of a
license from the patentee to make and sell the invention, the licensee
acknowledges the validity of the patent, stipulates that the patentee may
obtain reissues thereof, and promises to pay certain royalties so longas the

,DALE- TI

MANMUFACTURING .CO. v. HYATT.

47

Statement of the Case.
patent shall not have been adjudgedi invalid, is not a case arising under
the patent laws of the United States, and is within the jurisdiction
of the State courts; and the correctness of a decision of the highest
court of a State upon the merits of-the case, based upon the effect of
the agreement, without passing upon the validity of a reissue, or aty
other question under those laws, cannot be reviewed by this court on
writ of error.

Tnn original action was brought in a court of the State of
New York by Elizabeth A. L. Hyatt, a citizen of N~ew York,
and the owner of let.ters patent for an improvement i illuminated basement and basement-extensions, against the Dale
Tile Mianufacturng Company (Limited), a corporation organized by the laws of NTew York, upon a written agreement
between the partiesi dated December 28, 1880, which contamed, either in itself, or by reference to previous agreements,
the following provisions:
The agreement began by reciting that letters patent for
this invention had been issued to the plaintiff on August 27,
1867, and reissued on August 6, 1878. The plaintiff, on her
part, licensed the defendant to make and sell, within certain
states and districts, during the full term of the patent, and of
any extension or renewal thereof, illuminated basements, and
basement-extensions and materials therefor; and agreed not
to manufacture herself, or to license others to manufacture,
within the same territory. The defendant, on its part, aelmowledged the validity of the said letters patent, consented
that the plaintiff might obtain further reissues thereof when
and as often as she should choose, without prejudice to this
agreement; and promised to pay her a fee of seventy cents
for each square. foot of surface in gratings made by the defendant to be used in illuminated basements or basement-extensions
made and sold by it under the license; provided, however,
that "until a court shall have given a decree sustaining the
validity of the above-named patents," the plaintiff should receive a fee of thirty cents only, in lieu of the fee of seventy
cents; and that "if at any time an adverse decision shall
be rendered against the validity of the patent, which shall
not be appealed from for three months," 'the fees under this

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

Statement of the Case.

license should cease, and the defendant agreed to make such
payments and render accounts to the plaintiff quarterly. It
was further stipulated that either party, knowingly violating
the agreement, should forfeit all rights under it.
The defendant, in its answer, admItted the agreement, and
set up sundry breaches thereof by the plaintiff, and, among
others, that on September 27, 1881, she obtained from the
United States a reissue of her patent, whereby a discontinuance of actions previously'brouglit by her against infringers
in the Circuit Court of the United States became necessary,
and she refused to blilig new suits against them.
The plaintiff afterwards, by leave of court, amended her
complaint by alleging the reissue of 1881.
By order of the Oity Oourt of New' York, the case was
referred to a referee, who found that the plaintiff was the
owner of the letters patent issued and twice reissued as aforesaid, that there had been no breach .of the agreement on her
parxt, that the defendant made and sold the invention under
the license, anil rendered quarterly accounts for the royalties
down to and including the quarter ending October 31, 1881;
that by the account for that quarter there appeared to be due
to the plaintiff the sum of $52-1.55, which the defendant refused to pay, and that in December, 1881, the plaintiff gave
notice to. the defendant that it had forfeited its license, and
withdrew the notice upon its promising to pay the royalties.
The defendant requested the referee to find, as a conclusion
of law, that by the plaintiff's surrender of the patent, on taking
out the reissue of 1881, the license held by the defendant was
cancelled and became of no effect; and also that the court had
no jurisdiction of the action, because it involved necessarily
and directly the constructidn of letters patent of the United
States. The referee declined so to find, and reported, -as his
conclusion of law, that the plaintiff was entitled to judgment
against the defendant for the sum of $521.55, with interest
from :November 1, 1881.
The referee filed with his report an opinion, in which he
said that the defence, at first, proceeded upon the theory that
the plaintiff had violated her agreement by not prosecuting

DALE TILE MANIFACTURIXG CO. v. HYATT.

49

Statement of the Case.
'and restraining infringers, but .that defenee was abandoned,
because it appeared that she had assumed no such duty; and
that "the defence was finally rested upon this -sole ground.
That the reissue of the' patent in 1881 was entirely void,
because it covered much more ground than the patent of 1867
as reissued in 1878, and that therefore the surrender of 18M
left no patent whatever existing ;" but that the defendant

was not in a position to raise this question, because it could
not, in this action to recover th6 royalties agreed upon, deny
the validity of the original patent or of any reissue thereof, so
long as it had not .been declared void by a court of competent
jurisdiction, and while the defendant retained and acted under
its license from the plaintiff.
The City Court of New York gave judgment for the plaintiff on the referee's report. That judgment was affirmed by
the Courf of Common Pleas, and the defendant appealed to
the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment, and
remitted the case to tbe-City Court of -:New York. The opinion filed by the 'Court 6f-Appeals, and included in the transcript sent up to this court, is mentioned, but not reported in
full, in 106 1(. Y..651, and is copied ih the margin.'
1

PECfHA, 3R We think this case Is controlled by that of ifarston v.
Swelt, reported upon two appeals to this court. See 66 X. Y. 200; 82 iX. Y.
526.
The general and material features of the two cases are similar. In both
there was an agreement on the part of the plaintiff to refrain from manufact3iing, in consideration, among other things, of the promise of the
defendant to pay the royalties. While continuing the manufacture under
the license, the defendant ought not to escape liability to pay the royalties.
The defendant's counsel, it-is true, seeks to distinguish this case from
Marston V. Sthtt, supra, because, as he says, since the reissue of the patent
In 1361, which he insists was wholly void, the defendant has no protection
from the manufacture by others, for the reason that by the surrender of the
patent of 1878 and the reissue of 1881 there was no valid patent In existence,
and the consideration for the promise to pay royalties had therefore wholly
failed.
There was consideration enough for the promise to pay such royalties,
in that the plaintiff bound herself not to manufacture, and because the
defendant could not be called to acconit as an alleged infringer while
manufacturing under the license.
If it were a question of the validity of the reissue of 1881, and a

OCTOBEIM TERiMt, .1887.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant sued out this writ of error; and assigned for
error, that the State courts, both of original and of appellate
decision of that question were necessary to the decision of this case, the
defendant is, of course, correct in his claim that a state court has no jurisdiction to determine such an issue; but within the decision of the AMarston
case no such question arises. The defendant has protection enough to base
its promise to pay royalty upon, as long as it so conducts itself towards the
plaintiff as to prevent her from treating it as an infringer. In other words,
so long as the defendant continues to manufacture under its license (the
patent not having been legally annulled), and thus elects to treat the agreement as in existence, it prevents the plaintlif from treating the defendant
in any other light than that of a licensee. If the defendant desired to
repudiate any obligation under this agreement, It should have given notice
to the pIaintiff that it refused to longer recognize its binding force, and that
it would thereafter manufacture under a claim of right founded upon the
alleged invalidity of the patent. Otherwise, the defendant in claiming to
manufacture under the license and refusing to pay the royalties thereunder
would, if successful, prevent, the plaintiff from recovering anything from
it. She could not treat the defendant as an Infringer, because itwas manufacturing under a licqnse from her; aw~l she could not collect the rcyalties
under the license (although herself refraining from manufacturing, as she
had agreed), because the defendant-would allege the invalidity of the patent,
although continuing to manufacture under cover_ of a license from Its
owner. Such doctrine cannot stand a moment. Of course, as is said- in
theMarstoncase, froii the time that the patent is annulled by proper legal
proceedings no royalties could be collected, evin though no notice of a
repudiation of the agreement had been thereafter.served.
There is another ground, upon which it seems to me this judgment might
.well rest. Under the clause in the agreement betwveen the parties, which
provided for a forfeiture of all rights thereunder if one party should -wilfully violate one of its provisions, the plaintiff gave notice of such forfeiture to the defendant, based upon its refusal to pay the rojalties winch
it had acknowledged to be due for the quarter ending October 31, 1881 (the
very quarter-in question here), an account of which it had rendered under
the oatli of Its secretqry, as provided for in such agrpement. Subsequently
to the service of sucl'i ilotice, the plaiitiff withdrew the same at the request
of the defendant and upon its promise to pay these very royalties which it
had already acknowledged to be due. A failure to carry out such .promise
gives, as it seems to me, a good cause of action.
The defendant says, there was no consideration for such a promise,
because there was no patent upon which to ground a license, and the defendant therefore had no license and no protection; but the plaintiff of
course coptended that the reissued patent was valid, and at the request of
the defendant the plaintiff withdrew her notice of forfeiture of the license,
and thus reinstated the defendant in its possession, and freed it from the
liability tb be proceeded against as an infringer and put to expense "and

DALE TILE MANUFACTUR2MG CO. v. HYATT.

51

Opinion oi the Court.

jurisdictioi, had no power to. entertain- the issues in this
action, because they involved directly and solely the validity
of the letters patent reissued by the United States to the
plaintiff on September 27, 1881. The defendant moved o
dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction, and also
moved to affirm the judgment.
Mltr. George IF

7

an jlycl for the motions.

_31r. Edward D2. .NoCart

opposing.

Gn&-y, after stating'the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MF.

Tusrxie

The defendant contended m the courts of New York that
those courts had no jfirisdictign, because the plaintiff's right
to maintain her action depended upon the question whether
the second reissue of her patent was valid or invalid under the.
patent laws of the United States, and that of that question
the courts -of the United States had exclusve jurisdiction.
The judgments of each court of the. State, holding that the
question of the validity of that reissue could not be contested
in this action, and assuming jurisdiction to render judgment
against the defendant, necessarily involved a decision against
the immunity claimed by the defendant under the Constitution and laws of the United States, which this court has
jurisdiction to review.
The motion to dismiss must therefore be denied. But the
decision was so clearly right, that the motibn to affirm is
granted.
The action was upon an agreeifient in writing, by which
the plaintiff, as owner of letters patent, already once reissued,
granted to the defendant an exclusive license to make and sell
the patented articles within a certain territory, during the
lnsonvemence In the defence of such a litigation. Tis was saved at the
request of the defendant, and upon its special promise to pay the royalties.
Plainly here w~s a good and suflclent consideration for the defendant's

promise.
The judgment should be affirmed, with costs.

All concur.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

term of the patent and of any extension or renewal thereof;
and the defendant expressly acknowledged the validity of the
letters patent, and stipulated that the plaintiff might, without
prejudice to this agreement, obtain further reissues, and promised to pay to the plamtiff certain royalties so long as -no
decision adverse to the validity of the patent should have
been rendered.
The defendant contended that this was a case arising under
the patent laws, of which the courts of the United States have
exclusive jurisdiction. Rev. Stat. § 629, cl. 9, § 711, cl. 5.
But it is clearly established by a series of decisions of this
•court, that an action upon such an agreement as that here
sued on is not a case arising under the patent laws.
It has been decided that a bill in equity in the Circuit Court
of the United States by the owner of letters patent, to enforce
a contract for the use of the patent right, or to set aside such
a contract because the defendant has .not complied with its
terms, is not within the acts of Congress, by which in appeal
to this court is allowable in cases arising under the patent
laws, without regard to the value of the matter in controyersy. Act of July 4, 1836, c. 357, § 17, 5 Stat. 124; Rev.
Stat. § 699; rikom, v. Sandford, 10 How. 99; B "ow, v.
fSfiannon, 20 How. 55.
Following those- decisions, .it was directly adjudged in
Haczrtel v. Tilghman, 99 U. S.54:7, that a bill in equity by a
patentee, alleging that the defendants had broken a contract
by which they had agreed to pay him a certain royalty,for
the use of his invention and to take a license from him, and
thereupon he forbade them to use it, and they disregarded the
prohibition, and he fied this bill charging them as infrifigers,
and praying for an injunction, an account of pgofits, and"
damages; was not a case arising under- the patent laws, and
therefore~ the parties being citizens of the same State, not
within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States. And the judges who. dissented from that oonclusion
admitted it to be perfectly well settled "that whe"e a; suit is
brought on a contract of which a patent isthe subj( I matter,
either .to enforce such coitract, or to annal it, tI'o case arises

DALE TILE MATNIFACTURING CO. v. HYATT.

j53

Opinion of the Court.

on the contract, or out of the contract, and not under the
patent laws." 9.9 U. S. 558.
In the still later case of Albright v. Tew, 106 U. S. 613, a
patentee filed a bill in equity in a State court, setting up a
contract by which he agreed to assign his patent to the
defendants and they agreed. to pay him certain royalties, and
alleging that the defendants had Tefused to account for or.pay
such royalties to him, and had fraudulently excluded him from
inspecting their books of account. The defendants answered
that the plaintiff had been paid all the royalties to which he
was entitled, and that, if he claimed more, it was because
he insisted that goods made under another patent were an
infringement of his. This court held that it was not a case
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States,
removable as such into the Circuit Court under the act of
:Nlarch 3, 1875, c. 137, § 2. 18 Stat. 470.
It was said by Chief Justice Taney in Witsomn v. Sandford,
and repeated by the court m ffartell v. Tilghman., and in
Albright v. Teas, "The dispute in this case does not arise
under any act of Congress; nor does the decision depend upon
the construction of any law in relation to patents. It arises
out of the contract stated in the bill; and there is no act of
Congress providing for or regulating contracts of this dnd:
The rights of the parties depend altogether upon common law
and equity principles." 10 How. 101, 102; 99 U. S. 552; 106
U. S. 619.
Those words are equally applicable to the present case,
except that, as it is an action at law, the principles of equity
have no bearing. This actionp therefore, was within the
jurisdiction, and, the parties being citizens of the same State,
within the exclusive jurisdiction, of the State courts; and the
only federal question in the case was rightly decided.
Upon the merits of the case, it follows from what has been
already said, that no question is presented, of which this court,
upon this writ of error, has jurisdiction. IWurdock v. Jenp1zs,
20 Wall. 590. The grounds of the judgment below appear
in the opinion of the Court of Appeals, to which, under the
existing acts of Congress, this court is at liberty to refer.

OCTOBER TER ,I 1887.
Syllabus.

Bh
.'rei Association v. .New TroT7k, 119 U. S. 110;
Phi dlp
.- rezger v. Bhely County Bail'oad, ante, 43. Whether that
court was right in its suggestion that it would have no jurisdiction to determine the validity of the second reissue if incidentally drawn in question m an action upon an agreement
between the parties, we need not consider; inasmuch as it
expressly declined to -pass upon any such. question, because it
held that, in- this action to recover royalties due under the
agrement, the defendant, while continuuig.to enjoy the privileges of the license, was estopped to deny the validity of the
patent, or of any reissue thereof. The decision was based upon
the contract between the parties; and the-court did not decide,
nor was it necessary for .the determination of the case that it
should decide, any question depending on the construction or
effect of the patent laws of the United States. Xinsman v.

Pardiurst,1S.How 289; Brown v. Atwell, 92 U. S. 327.
Judgment aff'med.

FELIX v. SOLAR FWEBER.
MlOll TO THE SUPERE E COURT OF THE STATE OF MILMOIS.

No. 1255. Submitted January 16, 1888.-Decided March 19, 1888.
At the time of an action in a State coirt upon an agreement to pay royalties
for making and selling a patented machine, evidence that the plaintiff
afterwards made umprovements in the machine, and that machines made
and sold by the defendant upon a later model furnished by a third person
were substantially like that mentioned m the agreement, was admitted,
notwithstanding the defendant objected to it as going to show that the
plaiutiff invented the new machine, and as collaterally attacking a patent
to the third person. Rd patent had then been introduced; and no ruling
-was requested or made upon the validity or construction of any patent,
or upon the legal effect of the evidence. The jury were instructed that
the plaintiff was entitled to recover royalties only upon micunes substantially like that mentioned in the agreement. A verdict was returned
for the plaintiff, and judgment rendered thereon, which was affirmed by
the highest court of the State. Held, that the record presented no federal question within the jurisdiction of this court on writ of error.

