YALE LOCK CO. v. JAMES.

447

Argument for Appellants.

eluded by the proceedings in that suit. 1 Greenl. Ev. ยง 523.
The question of the value of the ice at the time it was taken
in replevm was essential to the finding of the verdict in the
replevin suit; and in such case, it is-not necessary to the conclusiveness of the former judgment that there should have
been a formal issue in the prior suit as to such question. 1

GreenL Ev. ยง 534.
On the whole case, we are of opinion that there is no error
in the record, and that the judgment must be a~fflrmed, and it
is so ordered.
_Aftl
ed.
YALE LOOK MANUFACTURING COMPANY
v. JAMES.
APPEAL FR0E THE CIRoUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES *FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
N'o. 162.

Argued February 3, 6,1888.-Decded April 9,1883.

A patent granted in 1871, for an improvement in post-office boxes was reIssued in 1872, and again in 1877, and again in 1879. The original patent
limited the invention to a metallic frontage made contInuo-is by connecting the adjoining frames to each other, and not merely to the woodwork.
There was no mistake, and the original patent was not defective or insufficient, in either the descriptive portion or the claims. In the progress
of the first reissue through the Patent Office, the applicant, on its requirement, struck out of the proposed specification everything which suggested
any other mode of fastening than one bywhichthe frames were to befastened to each other: He7d, that the flrst reissue could not have been construed as claiming any other mode of fastening; that therefore the third
reissue could not be construed as clauning any other mode of fastening;
and that, as the defendant's structures would not have infrnged any
claim of the original patent, they could not be held to Infringe any claim
of the third reissue.

Iw EqurTy, to restrain infringement of letters patent, Decree
dismissing the bill.. Complainant appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
Y.r. r'ed&ic -ff.BeM for appellant, on the question of the
law as o -reissues, made the following points in his brief:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellant.

We understand that ths-court has construed the provisions
of law regulating reissues, as follows:
(1) That the patentee can reissue in case it shall appear that
"the original patent embodied as the invention intended to be
secured by it what the- claims of the reissue are intended to
cover." - Parker c W&ipp Co. v. Y-ale (Jloo o,. 123" U. S.
87, 89: or he may reissue " to meet a paossibZe contruction of
tiw original,whereby the patentee would be .precluded from a
use of his proc.ess where it was evidently intended to be am
plied." Eames v. Andrewq, 122 U. S. 40, 63 : or to remove
"ambiguity or obscurity."
CambbeZ v. Jame, 101 U. S.
356, 370.
We understand that this means that the original patent
must show the invention claimed m the reissue, and, m it or
in the papers accompanying it, must indicate that the inventor
intended and attempted to secure, as Ins own, and did not
aandon the invention claimed in the reissue.
We do not understand that it must appear that the invention claimed in the reissue was actualt in fact seeured by the
claims of the original patent, if those claims be critically construed.
On the contraty, we understand that the inoperativeness of
the original patent may consist in the faibure of the o igmal
claims, when construed critically, to claim that which is seen
to b'e the real invention.
(2) That the patentee may not only (if his original "intention:" or "attempt" be found to exist) m oduce amendments
to the specification, but also, if Ae a,-ple8 in due season for a
correction,enZarge his claim, and clain something beyond what
the critical construction of his original claim would give him
Thus, in Loc wood v. .orey, 8 Wall. 230 (cited with approva, 122"U. S. 63), where the inventor had been induced to
l$mit Ins original claim by the mistake of the Commissioner
of Patents, he was allowed to remove the limitations by reissue.
Thus, in Campbell v. James, 104 'U. S. 356, 371, when this
court said, "of course, if by inadvertence, accident or mistake,
incorrectly committed, the claim does not fdly assert or de-

YALE LQCK-CO.

. JAMES.

Argument for Appellant.

fine the patentee's right .n the invention specified in the patent,
a speedy application for its correction, before adverse rights
have accrued, may be granted."
.er -v. Brsg Jo.; 104 U. S. 350:
Thus, in
"If a patentee who has no corrections to suggest in his
specification except to make his claim broader and more comprehenive uses due diligence in returning to the Patent Office,
and says, 'I omitted this,' or 'my solicitor did not understand
that,' his application may be entertained, and on a proper
showing, correction may be mad. But it must be remembered
that the claim of a, specific device or combination and an
omission to claim other devices or combinations apparent on
the face of the patent, are, in law, a dedication to the public
of that which is not claimed. . . ' The legal effect of the
patent cannot be revoked unless the patentee surrendersit and
prloves that the g~pecftoaiam wa8 framed by 9'eal inadvertence,
accident or mi8te without,any fraudulent or deceptive intention on his par ; and this should be done with due diligence
and speed. . . . -Nothing but a clear mistake, or inadvertence, and a speedy applicatiop. for its correction is admissible
.when it is sought-merely to enlargethe claim."
Thus in Xahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354, 363:
"If a .patentee has not cZamed as much a8 he is entitled to,
he is bound to discover the fact in a reasonable time, or he
loses.all right to a reissue."
And again:
"1As we have already stated, no invariable rule can be laid
down as to what is reasonable time within which the patentee
should seek for the correction of a claim wkicA he oonid'ers
too narrow. In -Millerv. Brass Co., by analogy to the law
of public use before an application for a patent, we suggested
that a, delay of two years in applying for such correction
should be construed equally favorable to the public. But this
was a mere suggestion, by the way, and was not intended to
ly down any general rule. Nfevertheless, the analogy is an
apposite one, and we think that excuse for any longer delay
than that should be made manifest by the special circumstances of the case."
VOL. cx

-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellant.

(3) That the findifig of the Connmissioner of Patents upon
the question of fact whether the original defect arose by inadvertence, accident or mistake, is a conclusive one, unless the
.posilZly of the existence of any such inadvertence; accident
or mistake is found to be excluded by an examination of the
original papers.
Thus in M!nh v. Harwood, p. 358.
"It was not intended then (i.e. in .Mrler v Brass Co.) and
is not now to question the conclusiveness in suits for infringements of patents, of the decisions of the Commissioner on questions of fact necessary to be decided before issuing such
patent, except as the statute gives specific defences in that
.regard?'
And again: p. 360.
"Conceding that it is for the Commissioner of Patents to determine whether the insertion of too narrow a claw arose from
inadvartenoe, a=c&dnt or mta7me, unless when the matter is
manifest from, the record," yet that it was for the court to
decide the question of dilience.
(4) That on the question of -due diligence in applying for
a reissue, such diligence isprmafacie proved, if the application is wit un two years.
Thus in _.31hn v. H arwood,p. 363.
"W
We think that excuse for any longer dJelay tAan that should
be made manifest by the special circumstances of the case!
v. Reher, 115 U. S. 96, 100, this Court
And in WTo/Zlns
said that a delay of more tkwn two years in applying for a reissue with broader claims made the action "yrsma facs lunlawful."
,Mvayit not be said that if the dday was less than two years
that the action ispimafacts lawful
We shall endeavor to show that the present case falls within
the provision of the law as above construed.
In other words, we shall show that, taking the whole history
of the on mal specification together, it would be plain to one
skilled in the art (and it is to those only that the specification
is addressed), what the real invention of Yale was, and that
that real invention is the one described in the second claim of
reissue 8783.

YALE LOCK CO. v. JAMES.
Opmon of the Court.

That the second claim of the original patent is eitlier for
that very invention (th6 farst one is broader) or, if upon a critical construction it should be held that it was confined by its
phraseology to certain details 5f minor importance, yet that

it was, at least, so uncertain and ambiguous, and therefore
"inoperative,".that the-ambiguities and uncertainties and limitations could be removed by reissue (especially by one applied
for within seven months thereafter), and the claim could be
and was restated so as to conform to what could be seen to
be the real invention.
.M. ,SolicrGeneraZ for defendant in errorp.
MiL eusios BL&roHFonD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit of equity, brought by the Yale Lock Ytanufacturmig Company, a Connecticut corporation, against Thomas
L. James, to recover for the alleged infringement of xeissued
letters-patent'lo. 8183, granted to the plaintiff, as assignee
df S. N . Brooks, administrator of L. Yale, Jr., deceased,
July 1, 1879, for an "improvement in post-office boxes,"
on an application for a reissue filed May 23, 1879, (the origi"nal patent, Nwo. 119,212, having been grantbd' to Silas lT.
Brooks, administrator of Yale, September 19, 1871, on an
application filed September 30, 1868; and having been reissued to said Brooks, as administrator, July 9, 1812, as lNo.
4963, on an application for reissue filed May 7,1872; and
having been agam-reissued to said Brooks, as administrator,
April 24, 187-7, as lNo. 7625, on an application for reissue
filed April 19, 1875). The Circuit Court- dismissed the bill,
and the plaintiff has appealed from its decree.
Among other defences, the answer sets up that each of the
three reissues was not for the same invention as the original
patent, but contained material new matter, axid was therefore
invalid.
Reissue Nfo. 8783 was the subject of a suit in equity, brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Connectilcut, by the present plaintiff, against the Scovill

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

fanufacturing Company, in which Tudge Shipman in June.
1880, gave a decree for the plaintiff as to the first and second,
clauns of the patent. 18 Blatchford, 248.
The original patent contained the following description of
the invention: "This invention relates to an improvement m
the construcion of the fronts of post-office boxes, and consists
in making said fronts, including the doors and box frames, of
metal, and in e.ouring theftamee to the wooderpigeom holes y
iivet eomneting the frame, wit, e k other at top, bottom,, and
sides. The body of these boxes is to be made of wood, in the
usual manner, namely, a series of pigeon holes, but the front
of the box and the door frame are made of iron or other suitable metal. Each door frame or box front is so made that it
aids in covering the edge'of the wooden partition or pigeon
holes, and is connected with .the other frames above, below,
and oi .bach
side of it m such manner that the frames make a
continuous frontage, no part of which can be removed (from
the outside) without pulling down other parts and ?reaHn
the woodworek, 80 tMat a 8UMortitWz& emova of the front of
any boo, in order to geg o868ie o of its contentq, iapctiaolvaly
Anpossibkle. Each firame.nade, as before stated, of metal, 4as

all around it a flange, a a. which protects the outside of the
wood-work. The sides of the frame b 6, enter and fit closely
against the wood forming the pigeon holes, and may be continuous or notched out at intervals; and ea;ch frame has
attached to it one leaf of two or more hinges, o v. The door
is of iron, solid at to, where the look d is attached, and having an opening, e, below, in which a plate of glass is secured.
I prefer to locate rods f f behind the plate, to prevent the
introduction of a haikd'if the glass ba.broken, and 8o to form
the door that, when shut, it enters within !he frame, (see gg,)
so that it cannot be lifted from its hinges. -hen the frames
are all in place, each frame is riveted through the wood-work
to its four neighbors '(see A-h, Fig. ,) and tAhs a continuous iron
frontage is formed. Ea door has a small spring bolt, i, and
a lock, d, attached to-it, the two operating together and forming, in the hands of the postmaster, a perfect safeguard against
all entrance to the box by means of the key as is more partic-

YALE LOOK CO. v. JAMES.
Opinion of the Court.

ularly set forth in my alicatio for.aaten therefor, made
equaZ date with thi. '
That patent had two claims; as follows: CC1. The combination of several box frames with each other and with pigeon
holes, as described, by means of rivets passing through the
frames, and the wood-work entering between the said frames,
the combination being substantially as described. 2. The
above, min comirnation,with the J7 inges, mieing part of the
.frame8 anzd protecting andU iV2WZ8n the exterior of the wood~work, aubetidalZ?] as et forth."1
The first reissue, No. 4963, contained the following description of the invention: 11This invention relates to an improvement in the fronts of post-office boxes, and consists in making
said fronts, including the doors and box frames, of meta;4 8a
boxi frames being const7rUctd 80 a8 to overZV~ and cover, &
wolZe or in _wart, the front edges of the wooden pigeon, Moes
to oich. they are qffed. The body of the boxes is to be
made of wood in the usual manner, viz., a, series of pigeon
holes, but the front of the box and the door frame are made of
iron or other suitable metal. Each door frame or box front is
so made that it aids in covering the edge of the wooden parttion or pigeon holes, and is connected -with the other frames
above, below, and on each side of it m such manner that the
frames wow7 make a continuous frontage, no part of which can
be removed from the outside without pulling down other parts.
Each frame, made, as before stated, of metal, has all around.it
a flange, a a, which protects the outside or edges of the woodwork The sides of the frame b 6 enter and fit closely against
the wood forming the pigeon holes, and may be continuous or
notched out at intervals; and each frame has attached to it
one leaf of two or more hinges, c c. The door way be of any
desirabl metal, solid where the lock d is attached, and having
an opening, e, below, in which a plate of glass is secured. I
prefer to locate rodsff behind the plate, to prevent the introduction of a hand if the glass be broken. The door i 8o oon8tructed that, when shut, it enters within the frame, so that it
cannot be lifted from its hinges. When the frames are all in
-place, each frame is riveted through the wood-work to its four

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

neighbors, (sde A A; Fig. 2,) and in thig wayfor=8 a continuous
mntaZ frontage. The door for edck frame has a small spring
bolt, i, and a look; d, attachMd to it, the two operating together
and forming, in the hands of the postmaster, a perfect safeguard against all entrance to the box by means of the key, as
is more particularly set fbrth in ketr87xatent granmd to we on

the 24tA~day of October, 1871, and numbered 120,1772"
That reissue contained two claims, as follows: "11. The
combination of several box frames with each other and with
pigeon holes, as described, by means of rivets passing through
the frames, and the wood-work entering between the said
frames, the combination being substantially as described. 2.

177M com~inatiomof two or more meta~loframe amd doors and
ZooZ s witA pigeon hlm~e, said frames hiaving'/inges, widok protect and indose who~y or impart the front edge of 8aid~pgeon
In order to a comparison of the specification and claims of
the fast reissue with the specification and claims of the original patent, the parts of each which are not found in the other
are above put rn.italics.
The specification and claims of reissue lNo. 8783 are 'as follows: 1Tls invention consists in an improvement in the
construction of post-office boxes, and its chief feature i .the
combination of. a tier of pigeon holes made of wood witli a
contihuous frontage of metal, such frontage consisting of'doors
and their frames, which latter cover the ends of the boards
which form the pigeon holes. A. series of wooden pigeon
holes, open at the rear, and covered at the front, or on _he
outside by a permanent glass front, is very old, and such a
series was used for post-office boxes, and in hotels as a receptacle for keys, cards, letters, &c. There has also been in use a
series of wooden pigeon holes, each provided at one end with
a door, as described in the patent granted to Jacob Beidler,
May 28, 1866; but in this patent the door is described as
hinged to the wood, and the construction is consequently inse-.
cure, as an ordinary pocket knife or small chiel will, even ini
inexperienced hands, suffice to cut away the wood or pry off
the doorj so that the boxes may be entered. Pigeon holes

YALE LOCK CO. v. JAMES.
Opinion of the Court.

made of iron or other metal are difficult to construct and very
costly; bur such pigeon holes, each provided with an ordinary
metal door, would be sufficiently secure. Such a degree of
security at a comparatively low cost is attained by covering
the front of a series of wooden pigeon holes with a continuous
metallic frontage, that is, a frontage which presents a continuous surface of metal, or, in othef words, a surface which
covers the ends of the wooden pigeon holes in such manner
that those portions of the wood to which the metallic frames
are attached cannot be attacked when the doors mnaking part
of the frontage are closed. In constructing Yale's invention
the body 6f the boxes or the series of pigeon holes is to be
made of wood in any usual manner, and the fronts thereof,
viz. the doors and their frames, are to be made of iron or other
suitable.metal. Each door frame is of such size that it aids in
covering the ends of the wooden partitions that form the
pigeon holes to which it is applied, and these frames (see
Fig. 1) are of such size and shape, that, where a series of them
are combined with a series of pigeon holes, they cover the
whole of the ends of the wood. Each door frame is a plate of
metal, a a, which, when in place, overlaps a part of the ends
of the wood-work surrounding the pigeon hole, the outside of
the frame inclosing a greater area than the orifice of the pigeon
hole, and each frame has an ear, b b, which enters the pigeon
hole; but tins ear may.be either continuous or notched out at
intervals. The door is of iron or other metal, solid at top and
having an opening, e, below, in which a plate-of glass is secured, and is hinged to the frame as at e v. It is preferable to
locate rods f f behind the plate, so as to prevent the introduction of a hand if the glass be broken, and so to form and hinge
the door that, when shut, it enters within the frame, so that it
cannot be lifted from its hinges when shut. When the frames
are all in place, each frame is riveted or bolted to the woodwork, to fasten it thereto, and is also riveted or bolted to its
four neighbors, to secure the frames to each other. (See A A,
Fig. 2.) Thus each frame is secured to the wood-work, so that
it cannot be removed till the rivet or the wood-work is cut
away or broken. When all the frames .are in place, a continu-

-OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ous metallic frontage protecting the wood-work is presented

upon the outsidt of the series of boxes, that is, the side-where
the public c.an approach the boxes. Each door has a lock
attached to it, the bolt of which is actuated through the intervention of an arm, k, in the manner and for the purposes set
forth in a patent granted for the invention of Linus Yale, Jr.,
on the 24th day of October, 1871, lNo. 120,17.
An iron
door in an iron frame is not claimed as of Yale's invention, as
such doors have been used in safe vaults and -or furnaces.
"Whatis clained as the invention of said- Lmus Yale, Jr.,
deceased, is, 1. The combination, substantially as specified, of
a series of metallic door frames and doors with a series of
wooden pigeon holes, whereby a series of post-once boxes
with a continuous metallic frontage is formed. 9. The combLnation, substantially as described, of a series of wooden
pigeon holes with a series of metallic door frames and doors,
and with rivets or bolts which attach the frames to the woodwork, whereby a continuous metallic frontage secured to the
wood-work of pigeon holes is obtained. 3. The combination,
substantially as described, of a series of wooden pigeon holes
with a series of metallic door frames and doors, and with
rivets or bolts which. attach the frames both to the wood-work
and to each other, the combination being substantially such
as described. 4. The combination of a- metallic door with a
glass panel and with a frame to which the door is hinged, said
frame being so constructed as tb covor a part of the ends of
the wooden partitions forming pigeon holes, and being applied
thereto, the combination being -substantially as specified. 5.
The combination of a post-office box or pigeon hole, open at
the rear, with a metallic frame and door to protect the front
end of it."
Olauns 4 and 5 were disclaimed by the plaintiff lovember
29th, 1880.
Olaun 1 of the first reissue was the same as claim 1 .of the
original patent, while claim 2 of the first reissue was in these
words* "2. The combination of two or more metallic -frames
and doors and. looks with pigeon holes, said frames having
flanges, which protect and Inclose wholly or in parT the front
edges of skid pigeon holes."

YALE LOOK CO. v. JAMES.
QOpnlon of the Court.

In the opinion of the Circuit Court m the present case, 22
Blatchford, 294, Judge Shipman says: "The defendant, as
postmaster m the city of New York, and not otherwise, used.
in the post office, provided and equipped for him by the
United States government, wooden post-office boxes, with
metallic fronts and doors and open at the rear. They were
manufactured by the Johnson Rotary Lock Company. The
doors and door frames made a continuous metallic frontage.
The door frames were secured to each other and to the woodwork as follows: At about the middle of each vertical edge
of each door frame there was a triangular hole, which, with
the corresponding hole m the adjoining door frame, made a
rectangular hole, through which the metal fastening bolt,
completely filling such hole, was passed, the heads of such
bolts overlapping the contiguous edges- of adjoining metallic
fronts, and the bolt itself passing through the wooden partition
between the adjoining pigeon holes, and being secured at the
back thereof, within the post-office room, by a nut screwed
upon the end of the bolt. There were other boxes constructed
substantially as above described, excepting that the metal front
of each pigeon hole was fastened to the wood-work by means
of flanges- and screws, but the screws which attached the
frames to the wood-work did not attach the frames to each
other. lNeither series of boxes would have infringed eitlier
claim of the original patent. Each series infringes the 1st
and 2d claims of the present reissue, unless these claims are to
receive a construction which shall compel the -metallic frontage to be made continuous by rivets, bolts, or fastenings which
shall attach the frames both to the wood-work and to each
adjoining frame. The plaintiff insists that these claims should
not receive such a construction, because it has been found that
the invention of the specification of -the reissue, although a
broader one than was des6ribed in the original patent, is the
invention which the hisrory of the art and the patent show
should have been described, and because the first reissue was
promptly applied for, and, as issued, included m-its second claim,
in the view of the plaintiff, the same invention which is described in the 1st and 2d claims of the reissue. The defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1881.
Opinion of the Court.

says, among other things, that, since the case of ller v. Bpam
Co., 104 U. S. 350, and Jamesv. CampbeM, 1041U. S. 356, it has
been settled by the Supreme Court, that the Commissioner of
Patents, in allowing the 1st and 2d claims, exceeded Ins jurisdiction, because the invention which was first applied for and
was C complete in itself,' was clearly, specifically, and fully
described m the original specification and in the claim, and
an expanded claim would necessarily include an invention
which was not sought to be described in the original patent;
and, furthermore, that there could have been no inadvertence
or mistake, because the original patent, and the accompanying
documents show that the patentee I did not intend it' (the
patent) 'to embrace any such broai invention' as was de- scribed in the reissue.
The defendant also says, that the
patentee, in his application for the flist reissue, ineffectually
endeavored to alter the description of the invention, so as to
omit the fastening of the door frames to each other as a necessary integral part of the invention, and that the second claim
of the first reissue cannot fairly be construed to permit such
omission, and, therefore, that the patentee is estopped from
insisting upon a broad construction of the 1st and 2d claims
of the present reissue, and that these claims are ob3ectionable
on account of the laches of the patentee. The I file wrapper
and contents' of the first reissue were not a part of the record
in the Scovill case."
In order to show the changes made m the specification and
claims of the first reissue, as they passed through the Patent
Office, the specification and claims of that reissue as granted,
and the specification and claims of the same as applied for,
are here placed in parallel columns, the parts of the latter
which axe not contained in the former being in italics and
brackets, and being numbered severally from I to 8:

As8 AiZied .For.
"This invention relates to
an improvement in the fronts
of post-office boxes, and consists in making said fronts,

.As Grantd.
"This invention relates to
an inprovement in the fronts
of post-office boxes, and consists in making said fronts,

YALE LOCK CO. v. JAMES.
Opinion of the Court.

including the doors and box
frames, of metal, said box
frames being constructed so
as to overlap and cover, in
whole or in part, the front
edges of the wooden pigeon
holes to which they are affixed ['and in securing 8aiZ

.frame8 to 8aid geon holes y
ivets or 8orew]. The body

of the boxes is to be made of
wood in the usual manner,
viz., a series of pigeon holes,
but the front .of the box and
the door frame are made of
iron or other suitable metal.
Each door frame or box front
is so made that it aids in covering the edge of the wooden
partition or pigeon holes and
[2 may be] connected with

the other frames above, below,
and on. each side of it in such
manner that the frames will
make a continuous frontage,
no part of which can be removed from the outside without pulling down other parts,
[ or the everaZ f rane8 may
be secured or otherwise fastened directly to the wood-en
pigeonh les, each, one in&
.endent of the other, if-de-

aired.] Each frame made, as
before-stated, of metal, has
all around it a flange, a a,
which protects the outside or

including the doors and box
frames, of metal, said box
frames being constructed so
as to overlap and cover, m
whole or in part, the front
edges of the wooden pigeon
holes to winch they are affixed. The body of the boxes
is to be made of wood in the
usual manner, viz.,.a series of
pigeon holes, but the front of
the Box and the door frame
are made of iron or other
suitable metal. Each door
frame or box front is so made
that it -aids m covering-the
edge of the wooden partition
or pigeon holes, and is connected with the other frames
above, below, and on each
side of it m such manner that
the frames will make a continuous frontage, no part of
which can be removed from
the outside without pulling
Each
down other parts.
frame made as before stated,
of metal, has all around it a
flange, a a, which protects
the outside or edges of thd
wood-work The sides of the
frame 6 6 enter diid fit closely
against the wood forming the
pigeon holes, and may be continuous or notched 'out at intervals, and each frame has
attached to it one leaf of two
or more hinges, o o. The door

OCTOBER TERM!, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The may be of any desirable metal,
solid where the look d isatand fit closely against the tached, -and -hav ng an openwood forming the pigeon ing, e, below, in which a plate
hole , and may be continuous of glass is secured. I prefer
or notched out at intervals, to loca;th rods ff behind the
and each frame has attached plate, to prevent the mtroto it one leaf of two or more duction-of a hand if the glass
hinges, o e. The door may be broken. The door is so
be of any desirable metal, constructed, that, when shut,
solid where the look d as at- it enters within the frame, so
tached, and haxing an open- that it cannot be lifted from
ing, e, below, in which a plate its hinges. When the frames
of glass is secured. [I Cat are all in place, each frame is
wit the door and over tie riveted through the woodaening fhor gut, Way be a work to its four neighbors,
nwor or ornamental open (see A A, Fig. 2,) and in this
work, admitting light, and at way forms a continuous metal
tre
[aw
time preventng the frontage. The door for each
introduction of a ud -if the frame has a small spring bolt,
glas be broken, or rodf f i, and a lock, d, attached to
may be, located behind the it, the two operating together,
p~late for the earns pwrpo8e.] and forming, in. the hands of
The.- door is so constructed, the postmaster, a perfect safethat, when shut, it enters guard against all entrance to
within the frame, 5 ee g g, the box by means of the key,
so that it cannot be lifted as -ismore particularly'set
from its hinges. When the forth in letters-patent granted
frames are all in place, each to me on the 24th day of
October, 1871, and numbered
frame [F may be] riveted 120,17T.
A
through the wood-work ito
its four neighbors, (see A A
Fig. 2,) and in this way form
a, continuous metal frontage,
[7 or each 8eparateframe may
be 8crewed or otherzise fa8tened -to the wood-worhi indeedgesof-thewood-wgrk.
sides of

-the

frame-h b enter

YALE LOOK CO. v. JAMES.
Opinion of the Court.

pen Aent of it8 neigbmrig
frames.] The door for each
frame has a small spring- bolt,
i, and a locl* d, attached to
it, the two operating together,
and forming, in the.hands of
the postmaster, a perfect safeguard against all entrance to
the box by means of the key,
as is more partioularly set
forth in letterszpa et granted
to me on the 24th day oft
October, 1871, and numbered
120,171r.
"What I clim-ag the invention 'of !he said IiuuYale, Jr., ileceased, is, Firt.
The combination of several
box frames with each other
and with pigeon hoi1es, as de-

scribed, by means of rivets

* "What I claim as the invention of the said Iinus
Yale, Ir., deceased, is, 1. The
combination of several box
frames with each other and
with pigeon holes, as described, by ineans of rivets
passing through the frames
and the wood-work entering
between the said frames, the
combination being substantially as described. 2. The
combination of two or more
metallio frames and doors and
locks with pigeon holes, said
frames having flanges, which
protect and enclose, wholly or
in part, the front edges of
said pigeon holes."

passing through the frames
and the wood-work entering
between the said frames, the
combination being substantially as described. Second.
The -bombination of two or
more metallic frames anddoors and looks with pigeon
holes, said frames ha.ving
flanges, which protect and
enclose, wholly or ii. part, the
front edges of said pigeon
holes. [s Third. The combination of 8everd mekiaf,
box frames wit each, other
andZ witA P~igeon 7wkva, 8aidZ
bo ftame8 being 86Oire( to

OCTOBER TERM'A,

.1887.

Opinion of the Court.

8ai(Z _pigeon holes mndeyend,-

ent~y of eacAk otker, by means
of 8crews or othor similar
fasteni'ng, as deacribed.]"
On the 8th of MNfay, 1872, the Patent Office examiner called
-the attention of the applicant to the fact that the following
-pnatters in the new specification were not warranted by the
original patent, namely: the words "or screws," in the part
marked "1," the words "may be," in the parts marked "12"
and "6," the parts marked "3," "," and "1,"and the third
claim being the part marked "8."
On the 9th of Miay, 18,72, the applicant appealed to the
Coimssioner of Patents in person, because the examiner had
refused to examine the case on its merits, -m view of the introduction of such new matter; but, on the next day, the applicant vrtually withdrew his appeal, by amending his application as follows.,He erased part "1;" he erased the words
"may.be," in parts "2" and "6," and substituted in each
case thg"vord "is;" he erased parts "8" and "14" and substituted for the latter the words, "I prefer to locate rods ff
behifid the plate to prevent the introduction of a hand if the
glass be broken." He also erased part "," and claim 3, part
"8," and submitted the case for further action.
The application was then reconsidered, and- twice rejected,
and from the second rejection the applicant appealed to the
examinermin-chief, who reversed the decision of the examiner,
and the reissue was granted, July 9, 1872.
Ii view of these facts, Judge Shipman, in his decision in
the present case, said: "It is unquestionable that the patentee,
when he made his original application, intended to say that
his invention did not consist simply n making, by his combination of metallic doors, door frames, and wooden boxes, a
continuous metallic frontage,'but that it also consihted in the
way in which the frontage was made continuous, viz. by the
connection of the adjoining frames with each other. His defnite and exact specification shows that. he supposed that his
patentable invention was thus limited." He described with
precision an d clearness, that his. metallic frontage was to be

YALE LOCK CO. v. JAMES.
Opinion of the Court.

$Qconstructed that the frames were tor be fastened to each
other-at-top, bottom, and sides, and not merely to the woodwork IA specific invention, complete in itself,' was described,
'fully and clearly, without ambiguity or obscurity.' Under
the defin'tions which are given in the decisions which have
been referred to, and in 3fanufactursng Co. v.Ladd, 102 U.
S. 408, of the inadvertence, accident, or- mistake which permits a reissue, when a patent is said to be inoperative on:
account of a defect or insufficiency in the specification, which
arose through such inadvertence or mistake, and also of the
nature-of the defectiveness or insufficiency which is meant by
the statute, there was no mistake, although the patentee
might have fallen into an error of judgment, or into an erroneous conclusion of fact; and, furthermore, the original patent,
according to the definitions contained in the recent, and, perhaps, in the earlier caseq, was not defective nor insufficient,
eitherin its descriptive portion or in its claims. The second
elifii of the first reissue,. construed, in the -light of the contemporaneous facts which are shown in the ' file wrapper and
contents,' cannot be fairly construed to mean a metallic frontage irrespective of the fastening of the frames to each other
through the wood-work. Were this claim to be construed
without study of the history of the application as it made its
way through the Patent Office, and of the amendments which
it was compelled to undergo, it would probably receive the
-construction which naturally belongs to the first claun of the
present reissue. But the patentee abandoned, under pressure
from the .Patent Office, the clauses in the application which
made the fastening of the frames to each other to be optional,
and abandoned also a proposed third claim, wich described
the box frames as secured to the pigeon holes Iindependently
of each other, by means of screws or other similar fastening.'
In view of the fact that the Patent Office excluded from the
descriptive part of the specification suggestions of any other
method-of fastening than that by which the frames were to
be fastened to each other, it would be singular if the intent of
the Office was to include in the second claam such other
method of construction. If this claim has properly, and the

464:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

applicant knew that it was intended to have, a narrow construction-and of this know]edgej think there can be little
doubt-the plaintiff would. not insist, that the 1st and 2d
claims of the present reissue ought, m -new of the decision in
Mi1ler v. Brass Co., s'pra to be so construed as to be any
broader than the 3d claim, which requires the combination of
door frames, doors, and pigeon holes to be by means of rivets
or bolts which attach the frames both to the wood-work and
to each other."
It was held that there was no infringement, and, on that
ground, the bill was dismissed.
We concur in these views of the Circuit Court, and in the
result which it reached. In -new of the numerous recent decisions of this court on the subject of reissued patents, it would
serve no good purpose to expand or amplify the views so well
expressed. by the judge at circuit. They are supported by the
decisions in Miler v. .Bass Co., 104 U. S. 350; itakn v. ifarwood, 112 . S. 354; -Parker& FW'pp Co. v. Ya7e Clock
Co., 123 U. S. 87; 3fahl Ws v. Iron Curad MA~fg. Co.. 123 U. S.

31:7.

Our conclusion makes it unnecessary to consider the defence
raised in the answer, and urged in argument, that the postoffice boxes used by the defendant were used by him as postmaster of the United States at the city of Nfew York, that
the boxes were the property of the United States and were
rented by it to sundry persons; that the rent was a part of the
postal revenue of the United States and was not a source of
personal emolument to the defendant; that it was not within
the power of the defendant tq remove or alter the boxes, and
that the use of such boxes at the post office, while the defen-ant was postmaster, was not an infringement of the patent by
him and did not make him liable to tins suit.

.Deoree ajZrmed.

