BOW31AIf

.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

465

Syllabus.

BOWMAIV

.

CHICAGO AND IOITHWESTERN
BA.ILWAY OOM11AlNY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOB
IORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No, 798. Submitted January10, 188.-Deded Mnrcb 19, 1888.
The question -whether, when Congress fails to provide a regulation by law
as to any particular subject of commerce among the States it is conclusive
af its intention that that subject shall be free from positive regulation,
or that, until Congress intervenes, it shall be left to be dealt with by the
States, is one to be determined from the circumstances of each case as it
arises.
So far as the will of Congress respecting commerce among the States by
means of railroads can be determined from its enactment of the provisIons of law found in lev. Stat. § 5258, and :Rev. Stat. c. 6, Title 48, §§
4252-4289, they are indications of an intention that such transportation
of commodities between the States shall be free except when restricted
by Congress, or by a State with the express permission of Congress.
A State cannot, for the purpose of protecting Its people against the evils of
intemperance, enact laws which regulate commerce between its people
and those of other States of the Union, unless the consent of Congress,
express or implied, is irst obtained.
Section 1553 of the Code of the State of Iowa, as amended by c. 143 of the
acts of the 20th General Assembly in 1886, (forbidding common carriers
to bring Intoxicating liquors into the State from any other State or Territory, without being Ifrst furmshed -witha certificate, under the seal of
the auditor of the county to which it is to be transported or consigned,
certifying.that the consignee or person to -whom it is to be transported
or delivered is authorized to sell intoxicating liquors in the county,)
although adopted without a purpose of affecting interstate commerce,
but as a part of a general system designed to protect the health and morals of the people agamst the evils resulting from the unrestricted manufacture and sale of intoxicating liqubrs within -the State, Is neither an
inspection law, nor a quarantine law, but is essentially a regulation -of
commerce among the States, effecting interstate commerce in an essential and vital part, and, not being sanctioned by the authority, express or
implied, of Congress, is repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.
Whether the right of transportation of an article of commerce from one
State to another includes by necessary Implication the right of the consignee to sell it in unbroken packages at the place where the transportation terminates, quwre.
vor.. cxxv-30

466'

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Tins action was begun in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District ot Illinois, June 15,1886, on
which day the plaintiffs filed their declaration, as follows:
" George A. Bowman, a citizen of the state of 3ebraska, and
Fred. W. Bowman, a citizen of the State of Iowa, co-partners
doing business under the name, firm and style of Bowman Bros.,
at the city of Xiarsballtown, State of Iowa, plaintiffs in this
suit, by Blum & Blum, their attorneys, complain of the Chicago and lNorthwestern Railway Company, a citizen of the
northern district of the State of Illinois, having its, principal
office at the city of Chicago, in said State, defendant -in this
suit, of a plea of trespass on the case.
"For that whereas the defendant, on May 20th, 1886, and
for a long time previous thereto and thereafter, was possessed
of and using and operating a certain railway, and was a common carrier of goods and chattels thereon for hire, to wit,
from the city of Qhicago, in the State of Illinois, to the city of
Council Bluffs, in the State-of Iowa.

"That said- defendant was at said time and is now a corporation existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State
of Illinois, and that it-was and is the duty of said defendant
to carry from and to all stations upon its line of railway all
freight tendered it for shipment.
"That upon :May 20th, 1886, the plaintiffs offered to saad
defendant for shipment over its line of railway, and directed
to themselves at Narshalltown, Iowa, five thousand barrels of
beer, which they had procured in the city of Chicago, to be
shipp.ed from said city to the city of Marshalltown, in the
State of Iowa, which is a,station lying and being on said defendant's line of railroad between said cities of Chicago and
Council Bluffs, but the defendant then and there refused to
receive said beer, or any part thereof, for shipment, to the
damage of the plaintiffs of ten thousand dollars, and therefore
they bring their suit, &c.
"And for that the plaintiffs, neither of whom is a hotelkeeper, a keeper of a saloon, eating house, grocery, or confectionery, on the 7.th day of July, 1884-, and upon several occasions thereafter, presented to the board of supervisors of

BOWM&A

v. CHICAGO .&c. RAILWAY CO.

467

Statement of the Case.

]tarshall County, Iowa, a certificate signed by a majority of
the legal electors of Marshalltown, Marshall County, Iowa,
which stated that said Fred. W.Bowinan is a citizen of said
county; that both of said plaintiffs.possess a good moral character, and that they (said electors) believe said plaintiffs to
be proper persons, and each of them to be a proper person, to
buy and sell intoxicating liquors for the purposes naijied in
section 1526 of the Iowa Code; that at said time and upon
several occasions thereafter they and each of them, the said
plaintiffs, filed a bond m the sum of three thousand dollars
with two sureties, which bond was. approved by te auditor of
said county, as is provided by- section 1528 of the Code of
Iowa ; that thereupon said board of supervisors refused to
grant such permission to either of said plaintiffs, or to them
jointly.
"And for that whereas the defendant, on May 20th, 1886,
-and for a long time previous thereto and thereaft er, was possessed of and using and operating- a certain railroad and was
a common carrier of goods and chattels thereon for hire, to
wit, from the city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois, to the
city of Council Bluffs, in the State of Iowa.
"That said defendant is a corporation existing .under and
by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois; that it was the
duty of the said defendant to carry from and to all stations
upon its line of railway all freight that might be intrusted to
it, and that it was the duty of said defendant to transport
from said city of Chicago to said city of Marshalltown the five
thousand barrels of beer hereinbefore and hereinafter mentioned, which plaintiffs requested it so to transporb; that in
the commencement of May, 1886, the plaintiffs purchased, at
the city of Chicago, five thousand barrels of beer, at $6.50 per
barrel, which beer they intended to send to Marshalltown,
Iowa, at which place and vicinity they could have sold said
beer at eight dollars per barrel, as the defendant was then and
there informed; that on May 20th, 1886, said plaintiffs offered
for shipment to said defendant railway company said five
thousand barrels of beer, directed to said plaintiffs at the city
of Marshalltown, in the State of Iowa and requested said de-

1887.
OCTOBER TERM
1
Statement of the Case.

fendant to ship sid beer over its road, with which request the
defendant refused to comply, and del~ined to ship or receive
said beer or any part thereof for shipment as aforesaid, the
said defendant, by its duly authorized agent, then and there
stating that the said defendant company declined to receive
,said goods for shipment and would continue to decline to -receive,sad goods or any goods of like character for shipment into the State of Iowa; that on said day, to wit, May
20th, 1886, and for a long time theretofore and sihce, the
plaintiffs were unable to purchase beer in the State of
Iowa; that said plaintiffs, at said time, could procure no other
means of transportation for said beer than said defendant, and
that, by reason of the defendant's refusal to transport said
beer, plaintiffs were compelled to sell said beer in the city of
Chicago at $6.50 per barrel.
"1That by reason of said refusal of said defendant to ship
said beer plaintiffs have been damaged in the sum of ten
thousand dollars, and therefore they bring their suit, &c."
To tins declaration the defendant filed the following plea:
"Now comes the said defendant, by W. C. Goudy, its attorney, and defends the wrong and injury, when, &c., and says'
actia mn,&c., because it says that the beer in said five thousand barrels in the plaintiffs' declaration and m each count
thereof mentioned was, at the several times m said declaration
mentioned, and still is, intoxicating liquor, within the meaning of the statute of Iowa hereinafter set forth; that the city
of Diarshalltown in said declaration mentioned is within the
limits of the State of Iowa" that the said city of Chicago in
the said declaration mentioned is in the State of Illinois ; that
the said beer in said declaration mentioned was offered to this
defendant to be transported from the State of Illinois to the
State of Iowa.
"1That heretofore, to wit, on the 5th day of April, A.D.
1886, the General Assembly of the State of Iowa. passed an
act entitled 'An act amendatory of chapter 143 of the acts
of the twentieth General Assembly relating to intoxicating
liquors and providing for the more effectual suppression of
the illegal sale and transportation of iioxicating liquors and

BOW AN v. OWICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

469

Statement of the Case.

abatement of nuisances,' which art is chapter 66 of the laws
of Iowa,.passed.at the twenty-first General Assembly of said
State, and which is printed and published in the laws of Iowa
for the year 1886, at page 81; to which act this defendant
hereby refers and makes the same a part of this plea.
cc That in and by the tenth section of said act it was and' 3s
provided as follows, to wit:
"'That section 1553 of the Code, as amended and substituted by chapter 143' of the acts of the .twentieth General
Assembly, be, and the same is hereby, repealed, and the following enacted in lieu thereof:
"'See. 1553. If any express company, railway company,
or any agent or person in the employ of any express company
or of any common carrier, or any person in the employ of any
common carrer, or if any person, knowingly bring within
this State for any other person or persons or corporation, or
shall knowingly transport or convey between points or from
one place to another within this State for any other person or
persons or corporation, any intoxicating liquors without first
having been furnished with a certificate from bind under the
seal of the county auditor of the county to which said liquor
is to b transported or is consigned for transportation, or
idthin which it is to be conveyed from,place to place, certifying that the consignee or person to whom said liquor is to be
transported, conveyed, or delivered is authorize'd to sell such
intomeating liquors in such county, such company, corporation, or person so offending, and each of them,, and any agent
of such company, corporation, or person so offending, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined in the sum of one hundred
dollars for each offence, and pay costs of prosecution, and the
costs shall include a reasonable attorney fee, to be assessed by
the court, which shall be paid into the county fund, and stand
committed to the county jail until such fine and costs of prosecution are paid. The offence herein definid shall be held to
be complete, and shall be held to have been committed in any
county of the State through or to which said intoxicating
liquors are transported, or in which the same is unloaded for
transportation, or in which said liquors are conveyed from

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for IPlaint&Ifs in Error.

place to place or delivered. It, shall be the duty of the. several county auditors of this State to issue the certificate
herein contemplated to any person having such permit, and
the certificate so issued shall be truly dated when issued, and
shall specify the date at which the permit expires, as shown
by the county records.'
S"And the defendant avers that at the several times mentioied -in said declaration, and eauh of them, the aforesaid
section was the law of the State of Iowa. in full force and
wholly unrepealed, and that the said plaintifs did not at any
time furnish this defendant with a certificate from and under
the seal of the county auditor of the county of Marshall, the
same being the county in which said city of Marshalltown is
located, and the county to which said beer was offered to be
transported, certifymg that the person for or to whom the said
beer was to be transported was authorized to sell intoxicating
liquors in said county of Marshall, nor was this defendant furnished with any such certificate by any person whatsoever.
1A-nd the defendant avers that it could not receive said beer
for transportation in the manner named and specified in the
plaintiffs' declaration without violating the law of the State of
Iowa above specified, and without subjecting itself to the penalties provided in said ace and that this defendant assigned, at
the time the said beer was offered to it for transportation as
aforesaid, as a reason why it could not receive the same, the
aforesaid statute of Iowa, which prohibited this defendant
from receiving said beer to be transported into the State of
Iowa or from transporting the said beer into the State of
Iowa.
"And this the said defendant is ready to verify. 'Wherefore it prays judgment, &c."
To this plea the plaintiffs filed a general demurrer, and for
cause of dcmurrer assigned that the statute of Iowa referred
to and set out in the plea was unconstitutional and void. The
demurrer was overruled, and judgment entered thereon against
the plaintiffs, to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted.
2, Loiv. T Blum and .& Fdgar C. Blum for plaintiffs
in error.

BOWMAN V. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

471

Argument fqr Defendant in Error.

-Mr. A. J -a.Aer, Attorney General of the State of Iowa,
error.
for defendant in-

I. While it is conceded that Congress has the exclusiv6
power to regulate commerce among the States, it is equally
true that the several States have the sole power to enact police
regulations, and in the exercise of such power may do ma'Iy
things -which more or less affect the transportation of persons
and freight between the States. Wiggznsea'ry Co. v. Bast St.
Louis, 107 U. S. 365; 6tbbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; NlVew
York v. -Min, 11 Pet. 102; Osborw v. 21oile, 16 Wall. 4179;
Sherlock v. Al ing, 93 U. S.99.
II. The police powers comprehend all those general powers
of internal regulation necessary to secure peace, good order,
health, comfort, morals, and quiet of all persons, and the protection of all property in the State. Congress cannot legislate on the internal police of a State, the power of a State
over its police regulations being supreme. iew Or/eans
lTrtar 'Works6o. v. &. Tammzny Hat Tarks Co., 14 Fed.
Rep. 194, 202.; .w parko Sc rader, 33 Cal. 279; .Mnn v.I71inois, 94 U. S. 197"; Tbedo &c. 7aikway v. J7ac7monvi7le, 67
llinos, 37; .Davis v. Centra .Bailroad, 17 Georgia, 323;
Rartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 113.
The statute of 1evada imposing a tax upon merchandise
brought into the State held constitutional. -n re .idoph, -2
Fed. Rep. 66.
Tax unposed on sales of merchandise in Alabama held constitutional. The court says: "The case before us is a simple
tax on sales of merchandise, imposed alike upon all sales made
in Mtobile, whether the sales be-made by citizens of Alabama,
or other States, a-d whether the goods sold are the product of
that State or some other. There is no attempt to discriminate
inj uriousy against the products of other States, or the rights
of their citizens, and the case is not therefore an attempt to
fetter commerce among the States, or to deprive the citizens
of other States of any privilege or immunity possessed by 6iti7ens of Alabama." Tfoodmqfv. Parham, 8 Wall. 128, Binson v Lott, 8 Wall. 148.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The law of JNew York requiring a report as to passengers
brought into the State is a police regulation. .Sew 7or.3 v.
.Miln, 11 Pet. 102.
Statutes like the statute of Iowa now under consideration
are police regulations established by the legislature for the
prevention of intemperance, pauperism and crinne, and for the
abatement of nuisances, and are constitutional. Cooley Const.
Lim. 581; Cozamonrwealt v. .rn&zl,
12 Cushing, 414; Cormonwealt v.
alp, 5 Gray,'97; Commonwealtk v. Howe, 13
Gray, 26; Oui.Housev. State, 4 Greene (Iowa), 179; Zumrof
v. State, 4 Greene (Iowa), 526; State v. Donehey, 8 Iowa, 396;
State v. Tf7weler, 25 Conn. 290, .eyno&Z9 v. Geary, 26 Conn.
179; Oviatt v. Pond, 29 Conn. 479; Peale v. GaZlagher,4
Mich. 244; GO v. Parker,31"Vt. 610; 2feskmveer v. State, 11
7
Indiana, 482; 1Fan
r&ilt v. Adam, 7 Cowen, 349.
It has been expressly decided by this court that as a measure
of police regulation looking to the preservation oT public
morals a state law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of
intoxicating liquor is not repugnant to any clause of the Con•stitution of the United States. Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall.
129; Beer Co. v. .. ass., VT U. S. 25; Foster v. .ansas, 112
1U. S. 201.
This law has been decided to be constitutional, in its main
provisions at least, by the Supreme C¢ art of Iowa. Litteton,
v. Fritz, 22 N. W. Rep. 641.
', is a well settled rule, that courts will not declare legsla-tive enactments void by reason of their repugnance to constitutions, state or federal, except when the judicial mind is
clearly convinced of such repugnancy.
The legislature cannot part with any of the police powers of
the State which are matters that affect the public peace, public
health, public morals and public convenience. Far-mers"Loan
and ITrm.t Co. v. Stone, 20 Fed. Rep. 270; AVlertom . MCity
of Okicago, 6 Fed. Rep. 555, In -re Tong Yung Quy, 2 Fed.
Rep. 624, Beer Co. v. _Aassacusetts, supra.
It is well settled now that the States have the powor to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors within the borders of the
State. This prohibition must necessarily be a restriction, upon

BOVWA

9. CHICAGO &c. RAMhWAY CO.

4-73

Oplnioz of the Court.

the importation of such liquors from other States, and if the
prohibition was made for the purpose only of preventing such
importation, it would be void, but when made for the protection of morals, public health and good order, it is clearly within
the power of the State.
The right to prohibit the bringing of certain articles into the
State because such importation endangers the public safety, is
not affected by the fact that the articles so prohibited may be
articles of property and of value as property.- When, the public
safety demands it the State has the right to prohibit the bringing of articles or property within the limits of the State, or
to impose conditions or restrictions upon such importation for
the protection of the public health, morality and good order.
This right has always been exercised by the States without
question. Certain articles of property deemed prejudicial to
the morals of the people have been excluded by the laws of the
States.
Revised Statutes of Illinois, c. 38, § 379, excludes certam books, pamphlets, engravings, models, casts, lithographs,
photographs, etc.
See § 9289 Howell, Annotated Stat. Mich., p. 2248; § 4022,
Statutes of Iowa; § 4596 General Statutes of Wisconsin:
12, c. 100, General Statutes of Minnesota.
In nearly every State restrictions are laid upon the impol cation of certain articles for the prcitection of the public health.
Dynamite can be brought into Michigan and many other
States only when packed and marked in a certain manner
involving large expense.

.XI.

amms9

..

unr'oe and .2r.1.

. Goudy also filed a

brief for defendants in error.
MYa. JusricE :M&TrHmvs, after stating the -case as above reported, delivered the opimon of the court.

It is not denied that the declaration sets out a good cause
of action. It alleges that the defendant was possessed of and
operated a certain railway, by means of which it became and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

was a common carrier of goods and chattels thereon' for hire,
from the city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois, to the city
of Council Bluffs, in the State of Iowa, and that, as such, it
was its duty to carry from and to 'all stations upon its line of
railway all goods and merchandise that might be intrusted to
it for that purpose. This general duty was imposed upon it
by the common law as adopted and prevailing in the States of
Illinois and Iowa. The single question, therefore, presented
upon the record is,'whether the statute of the State of Iowa,
set out in the plea, constitutes a defence to the actiom
The section of the statute referred to, being § 1553 oft the
Iowa Code as amended by the act of April 5, 1886,.forbids
any common carrier to bring ivitlnn the State of Iowa, for
any person or persons or corporation, any intoxicating liquors
from any other State or Territory of the United States, without first having been furnished -ith a certificate, under the
seal of the county auditor of. the county to which said liquor
is to be transported or is consigned for transportation, certifying that the consignee or person to whom said liquor is to be
transported, conveyed, or delivered is authorized to sell intoxicating liquors m such county.
This statutory provision does not stand alone, and must be
considered with reference to the system of legislation of which
it forms a part. The act of April 5; 1886. in which it is. contained, relates to the sale of intoxicating liquors within the
State of Iowa, and is amendatory of chapter 143"of the acts of
the twentieth General Assembly of that State "relating to
intoxicating liquors and providing for the more effectual suppression of the illegal sale and transportation of intoxicating
liquors and abatement of nuisances." The origmal § -1553 of
the Iowa Code contains a similar provision in respect to common carriers. By § 1523 -of the Codb, the manufacture and
sale of intoxicating liquors, except as thereinafter provided, is
made unlawful, and the keeping of intoxicating liquor with
intent to sell the same within the State, contrary to the provisions of the act, is prohibited, and the intoxicating liquor so
kept, together with the vessels in which it is contained, is
declared to be a nuisance, to be forfeited and dealt with as

BOW-AUN v. .(HICAGO &6. RA'tAY CO.

475

Opinipn of the Court.

thereinafter provided. Section 1524 excepts from the operation of the law sales by the importer thereof of foreign
intoxicating liquor, -imported under the authority of the
laws of the United States regarding the importation of
such liquors and in accordance with such laws, provided that
the said liquor at the time of said sale by said importer .remains in the original casks or packages in which it was by
him imported, and in quantities of not less than the quantities
in which the laws of the United States require such liquors to
be imported, and is sold by him in said original casks or packages and in said quantities only. The law also permits the
manufacture in the State of liquors for the purpose of being
sold, according to the provisions of the statute, to be used for
mechanical, medicinal, culinary or sacramental purposes, and
for these purposes only any citizen of the State, except hotelkeepers, keepers of saloons, eating houses, grocery keepers, and
confectioners, is permitted within the county of -his residence
to buy and sell in1&oicating liquors, provided he shall first obtain permission from the board of supervisors of the county in
which such business is conducted. It also declares the building or erection of whatever kind, or the ground itself in or
-upon which mtoxicating liquor is manufactured or sold, or
kept with intent to sell, contrary to law, to be a nuisance, and
that it may be abated as such. The original provisions of the
Code (§ 1555) excluded from the definition of intoxicating
liquors, beer, cider from apples, and wine from grapes, currants'
and other fruits grown in the State, but by an amendment
that section was made to include alcohol, ale, wine, beer, spirituous, vinous and malt liquors, and all intoxicating liquors
whatever. It thus appears that the provisions of the statute
set out in the plea, prohibiting the transportation by a common carrier of iiitoxicating liquor from a point within any
other State for delivery at a place -within the State of Iowa, is
intended to more effectually carry out the general policy of
the law of that State with respect to the suppression of the
illegal manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquor within: the
State as a nuisance. It may, therefore, fairly be said that the
provision in question has been adopted by the State of Iowa,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

not expressly-for the purpose of regulating commerce betz een
its citizens and those of other States, but as subservient to the
general design of protecting the health and morals of its people, and the peace and good order of the State, against the
physical and moral evils resulting from the unrestricted manufacture and sale within the State of intoxicating liquors.
We have had recent occasion to consider state legislation of
this character in its relation to the Constitution of the United
States. In the case of ugger v. _Xas, 123 U. S. 623, 657,
it was said: "That legislation by a State prohibiting the
manufacture within her limits of intoxicating liquors to be
there sold or bartered for general use as a beverage, does not
necessarily infringe any right, privilege, or immunity secured
by the Constitution of the United States, is made clear by the
decisions of this court rendered before and since the adoption
of the Fourteenth Amendment. . . . These cases rest
upon the acknowledged right of the States- of the Umon
to control their purely internal affairs, and in so doing to
protect the health, morals, and safety of their people by
regulations that do not interfere with the execution of the
powers of the general government or violate rights secured
by the Constitution of the United States." In lhe, LieenseCases, 5 How. 501, the question was whether certain statutes
of Massaohusetts, Rhode Island, and New Hamnpshire, relating
to the sale of spirituous liquors, were repugnant to the Constitution of the United States by reason of an alleged conflict
between them and the power of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign countries and among the several States.
The btatutes of Massachusetts and of Rhode Island considered
in those cases had reference to the sale witln those States
respectively of intoxicating liquor imported from foreign
countries, but not sold or offered for sale within the State by
the importer in original packages. The statute of New
Hampshire, however, applied to intoxicating liquor imported
from another State, and the decision in that case upheld its
validity in reference to the disposition by sale or otherwise of
the intoxicating liquor after it had been brought into the
State. That iudgment, therefore, closely approached the

BOWMAN v, CBICAGO &.

RAILWAY CO.

477

Opinion of the Court.

question presented in this case. The justices all concurred in
the result, but there was not a majority which agreed upon
any specific ground for the conclusion, and it is necessary to
compare the several opinions which were pronounced in order
to extract the propositions necessarily embraced in the judgment. Chief Justice Taney was of the opinion that Congress
had clearly the power to regulate such importation and sale
under the grant of power to regulate commerce among the
several States; "yet, as Congress has made no regulation on
the subjedt," he said, "the traffic in thr article may be lawfully regulated by the .State as soon as it is landed in its terntory, and a tax imposed upon it, or a license required, or the
sale altogether prohibited, according to the policy which the
State maysuppose to be its interest or duty to pursue."' p.
586. :Mr. Justice Catron and Mr. Justice Nelson agreed with
the Chief Justice that the statute of lew Hampshire. in question was a regulation of commerce, but lawful, because not
repugnant to any actual exercise of the commercial power by
Congress. Mr. Justice Mc:lean seemed to think that tHe
power of Congress ended -with the importation, and that the
sale of the article after it reached its destination was within
the exclusive control of the State. He said: "If this tax had
been laid on the property as an import into the State, the law
would have been repugnant to the Constitution. It would
have been a regulation of commerce among the States; which
has been exclusively given to Congress. . . . But this
barrel of gin, like all other property within the State of New
Hampshire, was -liable to taxation by the State. It. comes
under the general regulation, and cannot be sold without a
license." p. 595. Mr. Justice Daniel denied that the r1iht of
importation included the right to sell withii the. State,"contrary to its laws. He impliedly admitted the exclusive power
of Congress to regulate importation, and maintained, as
equally exclusive, the right of the State to regulate the matter
of sale. 31r. Justice'Woodbury concurred in the same distmnc'tion. He said (p. 619): "It is manifest, also, whether as an
abstract proposition or practical measure, that a prohibition
to import is one thing, while a prohibition to sell -without

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

license is"
another and entirely different." The first he thought
-was within the control of Congress, the latter within the
exclusive lurisdiction of the State. He said. 11The subject of
baying and selling within a State, is one as exclusively belonging to the power of the State over its internal trade as that to
regulate foreign commerce is with the general government
under the broadest construction of that power.

.

.

The

idea, too, that a prohibition to sell would be tantamount to a
prohibition to import, does not seem to me either logical or
founded in fact. For even under a prohibition to sell, a person could import, as he often does, for his own consumption,
and that of his family and plantations; and also if a merchant
extensively engaged in commerce, often does import articles
with no view of selling them here, but of storing them for a
higher and more suitable market in another State or abroad."
He alsQ said (p. 625): "But this license is a regulation neither"
of domestic commerce between the States, nor of foreign commerce. It does not operate on either, or the imports of either
till they have entered thf State, and become component parts
of its property. Then it has by the Constitution the exclusive
power to regulate its own internal commerce and business in
such articles, and bind all xesidents, citizens or not, by its regulations, if they ask its protection and privileges; and Congress, instead of being opposed and thwarted by regulations as
to this, can no more mterfre in it than the States can interfere in regulation of foreign commerce." Mr. Justice Grier
concurred mainly in the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice
McLean, and did not consider that the question 6f the exclusiveness of the power of Congress to regulate commerce was
necessarily connected with the decision of the point that the
States had a right to prohibit the sale and" consumption of an
article of commerce within their limits, which they believed
to be pernicious in its effects, and the cause of pauperism,
disease, and crime.
From a review of all the opinions the following conclusions
are to be deduced as the result of the judgment in those cases
1. All the Justices concurred in the proposition that the
statutes in question were not made void by the mere existence

BOW

.A1L&
w. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO

.*419

Opinon of the Court.
of 'the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among the States delegated to Congress by the Constitution.
2. They all concurred in the proposition that there was no
legislation by Congress in pursuauce of that power with which
these statutes were in conflict.
3. Some, including the Chief Justice, held that the matter
of the importation and sale of articles of commerce was subject to the exclusive regulation of Congress, wheneier it chose
to exert its power, and that any statute of the State on the
same subject in conflict with such positive provisions of lawenacted by Congress would be void.
4. Others maintained the view that the power of Congress
to regulate commerce did not extend to or mclud4'the subject
of the sale of such articles of commerce after they had been
introduced into a State, but that when the act of importation
ended, by a delivery to the consignee, the exclusive power,
over the subject belonged to the States as a part of their
police power.
From this analysis it is apparent that the question presented
in this case was not decided in Lte Xicmse Cses. The point
in judgment in them was strictly confined to the right of the
States to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor aftdr it had
been brought within their territorial limits. The right to
bring it within the States was not questioned; and the reasoning which justified the right to prohibit sales admitted, by
implication, the right to introduce intoxicating liquor, as merchandise, from foreign countries, or from other States of the
Umon, free from the control of the several States, and subject to the exclusive power of Congress over commerce.
It cannot be doubted that the law of Iowa now under
examination, regarded as a rule for the transportation of merchandise, operates as a regulation of commerce among the
States. "Beyond all question, the transportation of freight,
or of the subjects of commerce, for the purpose of exchange
or sale, is a constituent of commerce itself. This has never
been doubted, and probably the transportation of articles of
trade from one State to another was the prominent idea in
the minds of the framers of the Constitution whewrto Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

was committed the power to regulate commerce among the
several States. A power to prevent embarrassing restrictions
by any State was the thing desired. The power was given
by the same words and in the same clause by winch was conferred power to regulate commerce with foreign nations. It
would be absurd to suppose that the transmission of the subjects of trade from the State to the buyer, or from the place
of production to the market, was not contemplated, for without that there could be no consummated trade, either with
foreign nations or among the States. . . . Nor does it
make any difference whether this interchange of commodities
is by land or by water. In either case the bringing of the
goods from the seller to the-buyer is commerce. Among the
States it must have been principally by land when the Constitution was adopted." UCe of the &ate Bteight Tax, 15
Wall. 282, 275, per :Mr. Justice Strong. It was, therefore,
decided in that case that a tax upon freight transported from
State to State was a regulation of interstate transportation,
and for that reason a regulation of commerce among the
States. And tins conclusion was reached notwithstanding the
fact that Congress had not legislated on the subject, and notwithstanding the inference sought to be drawn from the fact,
that it was thereby left open to the legislation of the several
States. On that point it was said by Mr. Justice Strong,
speaking for the court, as follows (p. 279): "Cases that have
sustained state laws, alleged to be regulations of commerce
among the States, have been such as related to bridges or
dams across streams wholly within a State, police or health
laws, or subjects of a kindred nature not strictly of commercial regulations. The subjects were such as in Gilman v.
.Philadepkzq,3 Wall. '713, it was said, ' can be best regulated
by rules and provisions suggested by the varying circumstances
of different localities, and limited in their operations to such
However this may be, the rule has
localities respectively.'
been asserted with great clearness th-At whenever the subjects
over which a poiver to regulate commerce -is asserted are in
their nature national, or admit of one uniformn sytem or plan
of regulation, they may justly be said, to be of such a nature

BOWIAX v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

481

Opinion of the Court.

as to require exclusive legislation by Congress. 6Jooley v. Por
lfa'adenq, 12 How. 299, Crandallv. tate of

evadz, 6 Wall.

42. Surely transportation of passengers or merchandise through
a State, or from one State to another, is of this nature. It .is
of national importance that over that subject there should be
but one regulating power, for if one State can directly tax
persons or property passing through it, or tax them indirectly
by levying a tax upon their transportation, every other may,
and thus commercial intercourse between States remote from
each other may be destroyed. The produce of Western States
may thus be effectually excluded from Eastern markets, for
though it might bear the imposition of a single tax, it would
be crushed under a load of many. It was to guard against
the possibility of such commercial embarrassments, no doubt,
that the power of regulating commerce among the States was
conferred upon the Federal government."
The distinction between cases in winch Congress has exerted
its power over commerce, and those in which it has abstained
from its exercise, as .bearing upon state legislation touching
the subject was first plainly pointed out by Mr. Sustice Curtis
in the case of Cooley v. Port Tardem, 12 How. 299, and
applies to commerce with foreigg nations as well as to commerce among the States. In that case, speaking of commerce
with foreign nations, he said (p. 319): "Nf ow, the power to
regulate commerce embraces a vast field, containing not only
many, but exceedingly various subjects quite unlike m their
nature; some imperatively demanding a single uniform rule
operating equally on the commerce of the United States in
every port; and some, like the subject now in question, as
imperatively demanding that diversity which alone can meet
the local necessities of navigation." It was, therefore, held in
that case that the laws of the several States concerning pilotage, although in their nature regulations of foreign commerce,
were, in the absence of legislation on the same subject by

Congress, valid exercises of power. The subject was local and
not national, and was likely to be best provided for, not by
one system or plan of regulations, but by as many as the
legislative discretion of the several States should deem applivoL. oXXV-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

cable to the local peculiarities of the ports within their limits;
and to this it may be added that it was a subject imperatively
demanding positive regulation. The absence of legislation on
the subject, therefore, by Congress, was evidence of its opinion
that the matter might be best regulated by local authority, and
proof of ts intention that local regulations might be made.
It may be argued, however, that, aside from such regulations as these, which are purely local, the inference to be drawn
from the absence of legislation by Congress on the subject excludes state legislation affecting commerce with foreign nations
more strongly than that affecting commerce among the States.
laws which concern the exterior relations of the United
States with other nations. and governments are general in
their nature, and should proceed exclusively from the legislative authority of the nation. The organization of our state
and Federal system of government is such that the people of
the several States can have no relations with foreign powers
in respect to commerce or any other subject, except through
the government of the United States and its laws and treaties.
enderson v. Mayor of -rew York, 92 U. S. 259, 273.
The same necessity perhaps does not exist equally in reference to commerce among the States. The power conferred
upon Congress to regulate .commerce among the States is indeed contained in the same clause of the Constitution which
confers upon it power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations. The grant'is conceived in the same terms, and the
two powers are mdoubtedly of the same class and character
and equally extensive. The actual exercise of its power over
either subject is equally and necessarily exclusive of that of
the'States, and paramount over all the powers 6f the States;
so that-state legislation, however legitimate in its origin or
object, when it conflicts with the positive legislation of Congress, or its intention reasonably implied from its .silence, in
respect to the subject of commerce of both lnds, must fail.
And yet in respect to commerce among the States, it may be
for the reason already assigned, that the same inference is not.
always to be drawn from the absence of congressional legislation as might be in the case of commerce with foreign

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

483

Opinion of the Court.

nations. The question, therefore, may be still considered in
each case as it arises, whether the fact that Congress has
failed in the paticular instance to provide by law a regulation of commerce among the 'States is conclusive of its intention that the subject shall be'free from all positive regulation,
or that, until it positively interferes, such commerce may be
left to be freely dealt-with by the respective States.
We have seen that in the case of the StaM FreigAt Tax, 15
WaIL 232, a tax imposed by one State upon freight transported
to or from another State was held to be void as a regulation of
commerce among the States, on the ground that the transportation of passengers or merchandise through a State, or from one
State to another, was in its nature national, so that it should
be subjected to one uniform system or plan of regulation under
the control of one regulating power. In that case the tax was
not imposed for the purpose of regulating interstate commerce,
but in order to raise a revenue, and would have been a legitimate exercise of an admitted power of the State if it had not
been exerted so as to -operate as a regulation of interstate commerce. Any other regulation of interstate commerce, appliedas the tax was in that case, would fall equally within the rule
of its decision. If the State has not power to tax freight and
passengers passing through it, or to or from it, from or into
another State, much less would it have the power directly to
regulate such transportation, or to forbid it altogether. If in
the present case the law of Iowa operated upon all merchandise
sought to be brought from another State into its limits, there
could be no doubt that it would be a regulation of commerce
among the States and repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. In point of fact, however, it applies only to
one class- of articles of a particular kind, and prohibits their
introduction into the State upon special grounds. It remains
for us to consider whether those grounds are suffcient to jus-

lify it as an exception from the rule which would govern if
-they did not exist.
It may be material also to state in this connection that Congress had legislated on the general subject of interstate commerce by means of railroads prior to the date of the transaction

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
- Opinion of the Courtt

on which the present suit is founded. Section 5258 of the
Revised Statutes provides that "every railroad company in the
United States whose road is operated by steam, its successors
and assigns, is hereby authorized to carry upon and over its
road, boats, bridges, and ferries all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight, and property on their way from
any State to another State, and to receive compensation therefor, and to connect with roads of other States so as to form
continuous lines for the transportation of the same to the place
of destination." In the case of Zailroad Co. v. Bickmond, 19
Wall. 584, this section, then constituting a part of the act of
Congress of Tuue 15, 1866, was considered. Referring to this
act and the act of July 25., 1866, authorizing the construction
of bridges over the Mississippi River, the court say: "These
acts were passed under the power vested in Congress to regulate commerce among the several States, and were designed to
remove trammels upon transportation between different States
which had previously existed, and to prevent a creation of such
trammels in future, and to facilitate railway transportation by
authorizing the construction of bridges over the navigable
waters of the Mississippi. But they were intended to reach
trammels interposed by state enactments or by existing laws
of Congress. . . . The power to reguvlate commerce among
the several States was vested in Congress in order to secure
equality and freedom in commercial intercourse against discriunating state legislation." p. 589.
Congress had also legislated on the subject of the transportation of passengers and merchandise in chapter 6, title 48 of
the Revised Statutes; % 4252 to 4289, inclusive, having reference,' owever, mainly to transportation in vessels by water.
'But § 4278 and 4279 relate also to the transportation of
nitro-glycerine and other similar explosive substances by land
or water, and either as a matter of commerce with foreign
countries or among the several States. Section 4280 provides"
that "the two preceding sections shall not be so construed as
to prevent any State, Territory, district, city or town within
the United States from regulating or from prohibiting the traffic in or transportation of those substances between persons or

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO,

485

Oplmon of the Court.

places lying or being within their respective territorial limits,
or from prohibiting the introduction thereof into such limits
for sale, use, or consumption therein."
.So far as these regulations made by Congress extend, they
are certainly indications of its intention that- the transportation of commodities between the States shall be free, except
where it is positively restricted by Congress itself, or by the
States in particular cases by the express permission of Con.gress. On this point the language of this court in the case of
County ofq.obie v. Xima'Z, 102 U. S. 691, 697, is Rpplicable.
Repeating and expanding the idea expressed in the opinion in
the case of CooZey v. Boa ' of Port Wardene, 12 How. 299,
this court said: "The subjects, indeed, upon which Congress
can act under this power are of infinite variety, reqiring for
their successful management different pla-s or modes of treatment. Some of them are national in-their character, and
admit and require uniformity of regulation, affecting alike all
the States; others are local, or are mere aids to commerce,
and can only be -properly regulated by provisions adapted .to
their special circumstances and lo'calities. Of the former class
may be mentioned all that portion of commerce with foreign
countries or between the States which consists in the transportation, purchase, sale, -and exchange of commodities. Here
there can of necessity be only one system or plan of regulations, and that Congress alone can prescribe. Its non-action
in such cases with respect to any particular commodity or
mode of.transportation is a declaration of its purpose 'that the
commerce in that commodity, or by-that means of transporta-.
tion, shall be free. There would, otherwise, be no security
against conflicting regulations of different States, each discriminating 'in favor of its own products and against the
products of citizens of other States. And it is a matter of
public history that the object of vesting in (ongress the
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the States was to insure uniformity of regulation against conflicting and discriminating state legislation." Also, (p. 102:)
"Commerce with foreign countries and among the States,
strictly considered, consists in intercourse and traffic, including

486"

OCTOBER TERM., 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

these terms navigation and the transportation and transit of
persons and property, as well as the purchase, sale, and ex-change of commodities. For the regulation of commerce as
thus defined, there can be only one system of rules, applicable
alike to the whole country; and the authority which can act
for the whole country can alone adopt such a system. Action
upon it by separate States is not, therefore, permissible."
The principle thus anuouncad has a more obvious application to the circumstances of such a case as the present, when
it is considered that the law of the State of Iowa under consideration, while it professes to regulate the conduct of carners engaged in transportation within the limits of that State,
nevertheless materially affects, if allowed to operate, the conduct of such carriers, both as respects their rights and obligations, in every other State into or through which they pass in
the prosecution of their busmess of interstate transportation.
In the present case, the defendant is sued as a common carrier
in the State of Illinois, and -the breach of duty alleged against
it is a violation of th6 law of that State in refusing to receive
and transport goods which, as a common carrier, by that law,
it was bound to accept and carry. It interposes as a-defence
a law of the State of -Iowa, which forbids the delivery of such
goods within that State. Has the law of Iowa any extra
territorial force which does not belong to the law of the State
of Illinois ? If the law of Iowa forbids the delivery, and- the
law of Illinois requires the transportation, which of the two
shall prevail? How can the former make void the latter? In
view of this necessary operation of the law of Iowa, if it be
valid, the language of this court m the case of ffaZl v. De
Cuir' 95 U. S.485, 48S, is exactly in. point. It was there
said: "1
But we think it may safely be said that state legislation, which seeks to impose a direct burden upon interstate
commerce; or to interfere directly with its freedom, d.oes
encroach upon the exclusive power of Congress. The statute
now under consideration, in our opinion, occupies that position. It does not act upon the business through the local
instruments to be employed after coming within the State, but
directly upon the business as it comes into the State from
in

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

AST

Opinion ol the Court.

without. or goes out from within. While it purports only to
control the carrier when engaged within the State, it must
necessarily influence his conduct to some extent in the management of his business throughout Is entire voyage. His
disposition of passengers taken up and put down within the
State, or taken up within to be carried without, cannot but
ffect in a greater or less degree those taken up without and
brought within, and sometimes those taken up within and put
down without. A passenger in the cabin set apart for the use
of whites without the State must, when the boat comes
within, share the accommodations of that cabin with such
colored persons as may come on board afterwards, if the law
is enforced. It was to meet just such a case that the commercial clause in the Constitution was adopted. The river Mississippi passes through or along the borders of ten different
States, and its tributaries reach many more. The commerce
upon these waters is immense, and its regulation clearly a
matter of national concern. If each State was at liberty to
regulate the conduct of carriers while within its jurisdiction,
the confusion likely to follow could not but be productive of
great inconvenience and unnecessary hardship. Each State
could provide for its own passengers and regulate the transportation of its own freight, regardless of the interests of
others. Nay, more; it could prescribe rules by which the
carrier must be governed within the State, in respect to passengers and property brought from without. On one side of
the river or its tributaries he might be required to observe one
set of .rules, and on the other 'another. Commerce cannot
flourish in the midst of such embarrassments. No carrier of
passengers can conduct his business with satisfaction to himself, or comfort to those employing hun, if on one side of a
state'line his passengers, both white and colored, must be
permitted to occupy the same cabin, and on the other be kept
separate. Uniformity in the regulations by which he is to be
governed from one end to the other of his rcate is a necessity
in his business, and to secure it, Congress, which is uitrainmelled by state lines, Las been invested.with the exclusive legis.
lative power of determining what such regulations shall be.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It is impossible to justify this statute of Iowa by classifying
it as an inspection law. The right of the States to pass inspection laws is expressly recognized in Art. 1, .§ 10, of the Constitution, in the clause declaring that "no State shall, -without
the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports
or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws."
.
"And all such laws shall
be subject to the revision and control of the Congress." The
nature and character of the inspection laws of the States, contemplated by this provision of the Constitution, were very
fully exhibited m the case of Tunw v. 3faryland,107 U. S.
38. "The object of inspection laws," said Chief Justice Mtarshall in G'bbpns -v.Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, "is to improve the
quality of articles produced by the labor of a country., to fit
them for exportation; or, it may be, for domestic use. They
act upon the subject, before it becomes an article of foreign
commerce, or of commerce among the States, and prepare it
for that purpose." They are confined to such particulars. as,
in the estimation of the legislAture and according to the customs of trade, are deemed necessary to fit the inspected article
fcr the market, by giving to the purchaser public assurance
that the article is m that conditi6n, and of that quality, which
makes it merchantable and fit for use or consumption. They
are not founded on the idea that the things, in respect to
which inspection is required, are dangerous or noxious in
themselves. As was said m Tuwr v. Xamylanr7 107 U. S.
38, 55 : "Recognized elements .of inspection laws have always
been - quality of the article, form, capacity, dimensions, and
weight of package, mode of putting up, and marking and
branding of various kinds-all these matters being supervised
by a public officer having authority to pass or not pass the
article as lawful merchandise, as it did or did not answer the
prescribed requirements. It has never been regarded as necessary, and it is manifestly not necessary, that all of these elements should coexist in order to make a valid inspection law.
Quality alone may be the subject of inspection, without other
requirement, or the inspection may be made to extend to all
of the above matters." It has never been regarded as within

BOWMUA

v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY Co.

489

Opinion of the Court.

the legitimate scope of inspection laws to forbid trade in respect to any known article of commerce, irrespective of its condition and quality, merely on account of its intrinsic nature
and the injurious consequences of its use or abuse.
For similar reasons the statute of Iowa under consideration
cannot be regarded as a regulation of quarantine or a sanitary
provision for the purpose of protecting the physidal health of
the community, or a law to prevent the introduction into the
State of disease, contagious, infectious, or otherwise. Doubtless the States have power to provide by law suitable measures
to prevent the introduction into the States of articles of trade,
which, on accounit of their existing condition, would bring in
and spread disease, pestilence, and death, such as rags of other
substances infected with the germs of yellow fever or the virus
of small-pox, or cattle or meat or other provisions that are diseased or decayed, or otherwise, from their condition aid quality, unfit for human use or consumption. Such articles are
not merchantable; they are not legitimate subjects of trade
and commerce. They may be rightly outlawed as intrinsically
and directly the immediate sources and causes of destruction
to human health and life. The self-protecting power of each
State, therefore, may be rightfully exerted against their introduction, and such exercises of power cannot be considered regulations of commerce prohibited by the Constitution. Upon
this point, the observations of Mr. Justice Catron in The
.License Cases, 5 HoW. 501, 599, are very much to the point.
Speaking of the police power, as resetved to the States, and its
relation to the power granted to Congress over commerce, he
said: "The assumption is, that the police power was not
touched by the Constitution, but left to the States, as the Constitution found it. This is admitted; and whenever a thing,
from character or conditionris of a description to be regulated
by that power in the State, then the regulation may be made
by the State, and Congress cannot interfere. But this must
always depend on facts subject to legal a-certainment, so that
the injured may-have redress. And the fact must find its support in this, whether the prohibited article belongs to, and is
subject to 'be regulated as part of, foreign commerce, or of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
.Opinon of the Court.

commerce among the States. If, from its nature, it does not
belong to commerce, or if its condition, from putresence or
other cause, is such, when it is about to enter the State, that
it no longer belongs to commerce, or, in other words, is not a.
commercial article, then the .statapowerjmay exclude its introduction. And as an incident to this power, a State 3nay. use
means to ascertain the fact. And here is the limit between
the sovereign power of the state and the federal power. That
ii to, say, that which does not belong to commerce is within
the jurisdiction of the police power of the State; and that
which does belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction, of
the United States. And to this limit must all the general
vnews come, as'I suppo.e, that were suggested m the reasoning
of this court in the cases of Gibba v. Ogden, B'oun v. The
-State of raryland,and _Iew Y:r & v. _Mln. What, then, is
the assumption of the state court? 'Undoubtedly, in effect,
that the State had the power to declare what should be an
article of lawful commerce m the particular State; and having
declared that ardent spirits and wines were deleterious to morals and health, they ceased to. be commercial commodities
there, and that then -the police power attached, and consequently the powers of Congress could not interfere. The
exclusive state power is made to rest, not on the fact of the
state or condition of the article, nor that it is property usually
passing by sale from hand to hand, but on the declaration
founcl in the state laws, and asserted- as the state policy, that
it shall-be excluiled from commerce. And by this means the
sovereign jurisdiction m the State is attempted to be created,
in a case where it didnot previously exist. If this be the true
.construction of the constitutional provision, then the paramount power of Congress to regulate commerce is subjedt to a
very material limitation; for it takes from Congress, and
leaves with the States, the power to determine the commodities, or articles of property, which are the subjects of lawful
commerce. Congress may regulate, but the States determine
what shall or shall not be regulated. Upon this theory the
power to regulate commerce, instead of being paramount over
the subject, would become subordinate to the state police

BOWXNIAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILW.4Y CO.

491

Opinion of the Court.

power; for it is obvious that the power to determine the
articles which may be the sfibjects of commerce, and thus to
circumscribe its scope and operation, is, in effect, the control'ling one. The police power would not only be a formidable
rival, but, in a struggle, must necessar4y triumph over the
commercial power, as the power to regulate is dependent upon
the power to fix and determine upon the subjects to be regulated. The same process of legislation and reasoning adopted
by the State and its courts could bring within the police powet
any article of consumption that a State might wish to exclude,
whether it belonged to that which was drunk, or to food and
clothing; and with nearly equal claims to propriety, as malt
liquors and the produce of fruits other than grapes stand on no
higher ground than the light wines of this and other countries,
excluded, in effect, by the law as it now stands. And it would
be only another step to regulate real or supposed e2travagaiice
in food-and clothing."
This question was considered in the case of Railroad Co. v.
IUien, 95 U. S. 465, in which this court declared an act of
the legislature of 7Mfssouri, whiih prohibited driving or conveying any Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle into the State,
between the 1st day of March and the 1st day of lNovember
of each year, to be-in conflict with the constitutional provision
investing ongress with power to regulate commerce among
the several States, holding that such a statute was more than
a quarantine regulation and not a legitimate exercise of the
police power of the State. In that case it was said, (p. 472:)
"While we unhesitatingly admit that a State may pass sani-.
tary laws, and laws for the protection of life, .liberty, health,
or property within its borders; while it may prevent persons
and animals. suffering under contagious or infectious diseases,
or convicts, etc., from entering the State; while for the purpose
of self-protection it may establish quarantine and reasonable
inspection laws, it may not interfere with transportation into
or through the State, beyond what is absolutely necessary for
its self-protection. It may not, under the cover of exerting
its police powers, substantially prohibit or burden either foreign or intestate commerce.

..

.

The reach of the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1887;
Opinion of the Court.

was far beyond its professed object, and-.fruiuto the realm
.
which is within the exclusive jiinriati6 -of- ongress.
The police power of a State cannot obstruct foreign commerce
or interstate commerce beyond the necessity for its exercise;
and, under color of it, ob3ects not within its scope, cannot be
secured at the expense of the protection afforded by the Federal Constitution. And as its range sometimes comes very
near to the field committed by the Constitution to Congress,
it is -the duty of the courts to guard vigilantly aganst any
needless intrusion."
The same principles were declared in He derson v. The
.Mayor qf.2"ew York, 92 U. S. 259, and City Lung v. _FPeeman,
92 U. S. 975. In the latter case, speaking of the right of the
State to protect itself from the introduction of paupers and
convicted criminals from abroad, the court said, (p. 280:) "Such
a right can only arise from a vital necessity for its. exercise,
and cannot be carried beyond the scope of that necessity."
"It may also be admitted," as was said in the case of Raroad
Co. v. ffuse, 95 I. S. 465, 4:71, "that the police power of a
State justifies the adoption of precautionary measures against
social evils. Under it a state may legislate to prevent the
spread of crime, or pauperism, or disturbance of the peace.
It may exclude from its limits convicts, paupers, idiots, and
lunatics, and persons likely to become -a public charge, as well
as persons afflicted by contagious or infectious diseases; a
right founded, as intimated in The Pamesger Caes, 7 How.
283, by ]r. Ju tice Grier, in the sacred law of self-defence.
l7id 3 Sawyer, 283. The same principle, it may also be conceded, would justify. the exclusion of propert7y dangerous- to
the pyroperty of citizens of the State; for example, animals
having contagious or infectious diseases. All these exertions
of power are in-immediate connection. witli the protection of
persons and property against noxious acts of other persons, or
such ause of property as is injurious to the property of others.
They are self-defensive. But whatever may be the nature and
reach of the police power of a'State, it cannot be exercised
over a subject confided exclusively to Congress by the Federal Constitution. It cannot invade the domain of the national

BOWMA3N v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

493

Opinion of the Court.

government..... .Neither the unlimited powers of a State
to tax, nor any of its.large police powers, can be exercised to
such an extent as to work a practical assumption of the powers properly conferred upon Congress by the Constitution."
It is conceded, as we have already shown, that for the purposes of its policy a State has legislative control, exclusive of
Congress, within its territory, of all persons, things, and transactions of strictly internal concern. For the purpose of protecting its people against the evils of intemperance it has the
right to prohibit the manufacture within its limits of intoxicating liquors; it may also prohibit all domestic commerce in
them between its own inhabitants, whether the articles are introduced from other States or from foreign countries; it may
punish those who sell them in violation of its laws; it may
adopt any measures tending, even indirectly and remotely, to
make the policy effective until it passes the line of power delegated to Congress under the Constitution. It cannot, without
the consent of Congress, express or implied, regulate commerce between its people and those of the other States of the
Union in order to effect its end, however desirable such a regulation might be.
The statute of Iowa under consideration falls within this
prohibition. It is not an inspection law; it is not a quarantine or sanitary law. It is essentially a regulation of commerce among the States within any definition heretofore given
to that term, or which can be given; and although its motive
and purpose are to perfect the policy of the State of Iowa in
protectingits citizens against tlie evils of intemperance, if is
none the less on that account a regulation of'commerce. If it
had extendedits provisions so as to prohibit the introduction
int the State from foreign countries of 'all 3mportations of
intoxicating liquors produced abroad, no one would doubt the
nature of the provision as a regulation of foreign commerce.
Its nature is not changed by its application to commerce
among the States.
Can it be supposed that by omitting any express declarations on the subject, Congress lhas intended to submit to the
several States the decision of the question in each locality of

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Ophnon of the Court.

what shaff and what shall not be articles of traffic in the interstate. commerce of the country? If so, it has left to each
Siate, according to its owif caprice and arbitrary will, to discriminate for or against every article grown, produced, manufactur ed, or sold in any State and sought to be introduced as
an article of commerce into any other. If the State of Iowa
may prohibit the importation of intoxicating liquors from all
other States, it may also include tobacco, or any other article,
the use or abuse of which it may deem deleterious. It may not
choose, even, to be governed by considerations growing out of
the health, comfort, or peace of the community.' Its policy
may be directed to other ends. It may choose to establish a
system directed to the promotion and benefit of its own agriculture, manufactures or arts of any description, and prevent
the introduction and sale within its limits of any or of all
articles that it may select as conng into competition with
those winch it seeks to protect. The police power of the
State would extend to such cases, as well as to those in which
it was sought to legislate in behalf of the health, peace,, and
morals of the people. In view of the commercial anarchy
and confusion that would result from the diverse exertions of
power by the several States of the 'Umon, it cannot be supposed that the Constitution or Congress have intended to limit
the freedom of commercial intercourse among the people of
the several States. "It cannot be too strongly insisted upon,"
said this couit in
baash c. Railway (o..v. Iliowis, 118
1U. S. 55'T, 5-72, "that .the right of continuous transportation
from one end of the country to the other is essential in modern times to that freedom of commerce from the restraints
which the States might choose to impose upon it, that the
commerce clause was intended to secure. This clause, giving
to Congress the power to regulate commerce among the States
and with foreign nations, as this court has said before, was
among the most important of the subjects which prompted
the formation of the Constitution. Cook v. Pennqyvaniai97.
U. S. 566, 574; Brown v. 2~
luad, .12 Wheat. 419, 446.
And it would be a very feeble and almost useless provision,
but poorly adapted to secure the entire freedom of commerce

BOWNEA-W v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

495

Opinion of the Court.

among the States, -%hich was deemed essential to a more perfect union by the framers of the Constitution, if, at every
stage of the transportation of gooda and chattels.through the
country, the State, within whose limits a part of the transportation must be done, could impose regulations concerning the
price, compensation, or taxation, or any other restrictive regulation interfering -with and seriously embarrassing this commerce."
In Brown v. Houston, .114 'U. S. 622, 630, it was declared
that the power of Congress over commerce among the States
"is certainly go far exclusive that no Stai% has power to make
any law or regulation winch will affect the free and unrestrained intercourse and trade between the States, as Congress
has left it, or which will impose any discriminating burden or
tax upoil the citizens or products of other States, coming or
brought within its. jurisdiction. All laws and regulations are
r.estrictive of natural freedom to some extent, and, where no
regulation is in4posed by the government which has the exclusive power to regulate, it is an indication of its will that the
matter shall be left free. So long as Congress does not pass
any law to, regulate commerce among the several States, it
thereby indicates its will that-that commerce shall be free and
untrammeled'; and any regulation of the subject by the States
is repugnant to such freedom. This has frequently been laid
down as law in the judgments of this court."
The present case is concluded, we thnkm, by the judgment of
this court in Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446. In that
case an act of the legislature of the State of Michlgan, which
imposed a tax upon persons .who, not residing or having their
principal place of business within the State, engaged there in
the business of- selling or soliciting the sale of intoxicating
liquors to be shipped- into the State from places without it,
but did not impose a similar tax upon persons selling or soliciting th sale of intoxicating liquors manufactured in the State,
was declared to be void on the ground that it was a regulation
in restraint of commerce, repugnant to the Constitution of the
Uliited Sta~ts. In that case it was said. (p. 459): "It is suggested by the learned judge, who delivered the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Coirt.

Supreme Court of Yichigan in this case, that the tax imposed
by the act of 1815 is an exercise, l y the legislature of Mich
igan, of the police power of the State for the discouragement
of the use of intoxicating liquors, and the preservation of the
health and morals of the people. Tins would be a perfect
justification of the act, if it did not discriminate against the
citizens and products of other States in a matter of commerce
between the States, 9nd thus usurp one of the prerogatives of
the national legislature. The police power cannot be set up
to control the inhibitions of the Federal Constitution, or the
powers of the United States government created thereby."
It would be error tQ lay any stress on the fact that .the
statute passed upon in that case made a discrimination between
citizens and products of other States in favor of those of the
State of -Michigan, notwithstanding the intimation on that
point in the foregoing extract from the opinion. This appears
plainly from-what was decided in the case of ?obbznws v.
iSheby Taxing .strtet, 120 U. S.489. .Jt was there said (p.
497) "It is strongly urged, as if it were a material point in
the case, that no discrimination is made between domestic and
foreign drummers --those of Tennessee and those of other
States; that all are taxed alike. But that does not meet the
difficulty. Interstate commerce cannot be taxed at all, even
though the same amount of. tax should be laid on domesti9
commerce, or that which is carried on solely within the State.
This was decided in.
the case of The State Feight Tax, 15
Wall., 232."
in answer to another suggestion in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Michigan, that the regulation contained in the
act did not amount to a prohibition, tins court said: "We are
unable to adopt the views- of that learned tribunal as here
expressed. It is the power to regulate commerce among the
several States which the Constitution in- terms confers upon
Congress; and this power, as we have seen, is exclusive in cases
like the present; where the subject of regulation is one that
admits and requires uniformity, and where any regulation af7
fects the freedgm of traffic am'ong the States."
The relation o'f the'police powers of the State to the powers"

BOWMA.N v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

497

Ophinon of the Court.

granted to Congress by the Constitition over foreign and
interstate commerce, was stated by this court in the opinion
in the case of Ro ks v. ,Sefy T izg .Distrkt,1f20 U. S. 489,
493, as follows: "It is also an established principl as giready
indicated, that the only way in which commerce between the
States can be legitimately affected by state laws, is when, by
virtue of its police power, and its jurisdiction over persons and,
property within its limits, a state provides for the security of
the lives, limbs, health, and comfort of persons, and the protection of property; or when it does those things which may
otherwise incidentally affect commerce, such as the establishment and regulation of highways, canals, railroads, wharves,
ferries, and other commercial facilities; the passage of inspection laws to secure the due quality and measure of products
and commodities; the passage -of laws to regulate or restrict
the sale of articles deemed injurious o the health or morals of
the community; the imposition of taxes upon persons residing
within the State or belonging to its population, and upon
,avocations and employments pursued therein, not directly
connected with foreign or mterstate commerce, or with some
other employment or business exercised under authority of the
Constitution and laws of the United States; and the imp6sition of taxes upon all property within the State mingled with
and.forming part of the great mass of property therein. But
in making such internal regulations, a state cannot impose
taxes upon persons passing through the State, or coming into
it merely for a temporary purpose, especially if connected with
interstate or foreign commerce; nor can -it impose such taxes
upon .property imported into the State from abroad or from
another State, and not yet become a part of the common mass
of property thereto; and no discrimination can be made by
any such regulations adversely to the persons or property of
other States; and no regulations can be made directly affecting
interstate commerce. Any taxation or regulation of the latter
chiracter would be an unauthorized interference with the
In a word,
power given to Congress over the subject. . .
it may be said that in the matter of interstate commerce the
United States are but one country, and- are and must be subvoL. cxxv-32

OCTOBER TERM,. 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ject to one system of regulations, and not to.a multitude of'
systems. The doctrine of the freedom of that commerce,
except as regulated by Congress, is so firmly established that
it is unnecessary to enlarge further upon this subject.'
The section of the statute of Iowa- the validity of which is
drawn in question in this case, does not fall within this enumeration of legitimate exertions of the police power. It is not
an exercise of the jurisdiction of the State over persons and
property within its limits. On the contrary, it is an attempt
to exert that jurisdiction over persons and property within the
limits of other States. It seeks to prohibit and stop their
passage and importation into its own limits, and is designed as
a regulation for the conduct of commerce before the merchandise is brought to its border. It is not one of tihoso local regulations designed to aid and facilitate commerce; it is not an
inspection law to secure the. due quality and measure of a
commodity; it is not a law to, regulhte or restrict the -sale of
an article deemed injurious to the health and morals of the
community; it is not a.regulation confined to the purely internal and domestic commerce of the State; it is not a restriction which only operates, upon property after it has become
mingled with and forms part of the mass of the property
within the State. It is, on the other hand, a regulation directly
affecting interstate commerce in an essential and -vital point.
If authorized, in "thepresent instance, upon the grounds and
motives of the policy which have dictated it, the same reason
would justify any and every other state regulation of interstate
commerce upon any grounds and reasons which might prompt
in particular cases their adoption. It is, therefore, a regulation of that character which constitutes an unauthorized interference with the power given to Congress over the subject.
If not in contravention of any positive legislation by Congress,
it is nevertheless a breach and iiterruption of that liberty of
trade which Cbngress ordains as'the national policy, by willing that it shall lie free from restrictive regulations.
It may be said, however, that the -rightof the State to restrict or prohibit 4ales of intoxicating liquor within its limits,
conc(Ae to exist as a part of its police power, implies the

BOWIANT v. CHICA0O &c. RAILWAY CO.

-499

Opinon of the Cort.
right to -rohibit its importation, because the latteris necessary
to the effectual exercise of the former. The argument is
that a prohibition of the sale cannot be made effective, except
by preventing the introduction of th; subject of the sale; that
if its entrance into the State is permitted, the traffic in it
cannot be suppressed. But the right to. prohibit sales, so far
as conceded to the States, arises only after the act of transportion has terminated, because the sales which the State
may forbid are of things within its jurisdiction. Its power
over them does not begin to operate until they are brought
within the territorial limits which circumscribe it. It might
be very convenient and useful in the execution of the policy
of prohibition within the State to extend the powers of the
State beyond its territorial limits. But such extra-territoriai
powers cannot be assumed upon such an implication. On the
contrary, the nature of the case contradicts their exstence.
For if they belong to one State, they belong to all, and cannot be exercised.severally and independently. 'The attempt
-would necessaily produce that conflict and confusion which
it was the very purpose of the Constitution by its delegations
of national power to prevent.
It is easier - to think that the right of importation from
abroad, and of transportation from one State to another, ineludes, by :necessary implication, the right of .the importer to
sell in unbroken packages at the place where the transit terminates; for the very:purpose and motive of that branch of
commerce which-consists in transportation, is that other and
coisequent act of commerce which consists in the sale and
exchange of .the commodities transported. Such, indeed, was
12
the point decided in the case of Brom v. Iarylmzn
statethe
express
with
commerce,
419,
as
to
f6reign
'Wheat.
ment, in the opinion of Chief Justice :Narshall, that the conclusion would be the same in a case of commerce among the
States. But it is not necessary now to express any opinion
upon the point, because that question does not arise in the
present case. The precise line which divides the transaction,
so far as it belongs to -foreign or in'terstate commerce, from
the internal and domestic commerce of the State, we are not

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

now called upon to delineate. It as enough to say, that the
power to regulate or forbid the sale of a commodity, after it
has been brought into the State, does not carry with it the
right and power to prevent its introduction by transport4ion
from another State.
For these reasons, we are constrained to -pronounce against
the validity of the section of the statute of Iowa involved in
this case. The judgment of the Circuit Court of the 'United
States for the lNorthern District of Illinois is therefore
-eversed, and the came ,enzanded, "wit7 -nstructzons to sustain
the demurrer to the plea, and to taefartheA proeeding's
theren in conformsty wit tkid opinon.
MR. JusEcE FIELD,

concurring.

I concur in the judgment of the court in this case, and in
the greater part of the opinion upon which it is founded.
The opinion clearly shows, as I think, that the law of IowJa
prohibiting the importation into that State of intoxicating
liquors is an encroachment on the power of Congress over
.interstate commerce. That commerce is a subject of vast extent. It embraces intercourse between citizens of differelit
States for purposes of trade in any and all its forms, including
the. transportation, purchase, sale and exchange of commodities. The power to regulate it, which is vested m Congress
in the same clause with the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, is general in its terms. And to regulate this
commerce is to prescribe the conditions under which it shall
be conducted; that is, how far it stiili be free, and how far
subject to restrictions. The defendant is a common carrier
engaged in the transportation of freight by railway, not only
between places in the State of Illinois, but also between
places in different States. In the latter business it is, therefore, engaged in interstate commerce. Whatever is an article
of commerce it may carry, subject to such regulations as may
be necessary for the convenience and safety of the community
through whlc its cars pass, and to insure safety in the carriage of the freight. The law of Iowa prescribing the condi-

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.
Concurrlng Opinion. Field, J.

tions upon which certain liquors may-be imported into that
State is, therefore, a regulation of interstate commerce. Such
regulation, where the subject, like the transportation of goods,
is national in its character, can be made only by Congress, the
power which can act for the whole country. Action by the
States upon such commerce is not, therefore, permissible.
.Mobile v. XimaZZ, 102 U. S. 691, 697.
What is an article of commerce is determinable by the
usages of te commercial world, and does-not depend upon
the declaration of any State. The State possesses the power
to prescribe all such regulations with respect to the possession,
use, and sale of, property within its limits as may be necessary
to protect the health, lives, and morals of its people; and that
power may be applied to all kinds of property, even that
which in its nature is harmless. But the power of regulation
for that purpose is one thing, and the power to exclude an
article from commerce by a declaration that it shall not
thenceforth be the subject of use and sale, is another and very
different thing. If the State could thus take an article from
commerce, its power over interitate commerce would be superior to that of Congress, where the Constitution has vested it.
The language, of Mr. Justice Catron on this subject in The
License Cases, quoted in the opimon of the court, is instructive. BHow. 50-, 600. Speaking of the assumption by the State
of power to declare what shall and what shall not be deemed
an article of commerce within its limits, and thus to permit
the sale of one and prohibit the sale of the other, without
'reference to Congressional power of regulation, the learned
justice said: "The exclusive state power is made to re~t, not
on the fact of the state or condition of the article, nor that it
is property usually passing by sale from hand to hand, but on
the declaration found in the state laws, and asserted as the
state policy, that it shall be excluded from. commerce. And
by this means the sovereign jurisdiction in the State is attempted to be created, in a case where it did not preiously
exist. If this be the true construction of the constitutional
provision, then the paramount power of Congress to regulate
commerce is subject to a very material limitation; for it takes

602

OCTOBER TERMi, 1887.
Concurring Opinion. Field, X.

from Congress, and leaves with the States, the power to deter
mine the commodities or articles of property which are the
.subjects of lawful comuerce. Congress may regulate, but the
States determine what shall or shall not be regulated. Upon
this theory the power to regulate commerce, instead of being
paramount over the subject, would become subordinate to the
state police power; for it is obvious that the power to determine the articles which may be the subjects of commerce, and
thus to circumscribe its scope and operation, is, in effect, the
controlling one. The police power would not only bo a forinidable rival, but, m a struggle, must'hecessarily triumph
over the commercial power, as the power to regulate is dependent upon the power to fix and determine upon the subjects to be regulated."
In Xitgkr v. Zamas,recently decided, (123 U. S.623,) this
court held a statute of that State to be valid which prohibited
the manufacture and sale within its limits of intoxicating
liquors except for medical, scientific, or mechanical purposes,
and made a violation of its provisions a"-nsdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment. I agreed to so mucti of the
opinion of the court in that case as asserted that there was
nothing in the Constitution or laws of the United States which
affected the validity of the statute prohibiting the sale of such
liquors manufactured m the State, except under proper regulations for the protection of the health andl morals of the
people. But, at the same time, I stated, withouit expressing
any 9pinion on the subject, that I was not prepared to say
that the State could prohibit the sale of such liquors within
its limits under like regulations, if Congress should authorize
their importation; observing that the right to import an
article of merchandise, recognized as such by the commercial
world, *Vhether the right be given by aAt of Congress or by
treaty with a foreIgn nation, would seem necessarily to carry
the right to sell the article when imported. Where the mp.ortafion is authorized from one State to another a similar
right of sale of the article imported would seemto follow.
The question upon which I was then unwilling to express an
opinion is presented-m this case, not'in a direct way, it is true,

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &a. RAILWAY CO.

5.03

Concurring Opinion. E'eid, 3

but in such a, form as, it seems'to me to require "ionsideration.
A statute of Iowa contains a prohibition, similar to that
of the Kansas statute, upon the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors within its litnits, with the additional exception of permission to use them for culinary purposes, and to
sell foreign liquors imported under a law of Congress, in- the
original casks or packages in which they arx imported. The
law under consideration in this case, prohibiting the inportation into Iowa of such liquors from other States, without 2,
license for that purpose, was passed to carry out the policy
of the State to suppress the sale of such liquors within its
limits. And the argument is pressed with much force that if
the State cannot prohibit the importation its policy to suppress,
the sale will be defeated, and if legislation establishnng such
policy is not in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, this additional measure to carry the legislation into
successful operation must be permissible. The argument
assumes that the rigt of importation carries with it the right
to sell the article imported, a position hereafter considered.
The reserved powers of the States in the regulation of their
internal affairs must be exercised consistently with'the exercise
of the powers delegated to the United States. If there be a
conflict, the powers delegated must prevail, being so much
authority taken from the States by the express sanction of
their peQple; for the Constitution itself declares that laws
inade in pursuance of it shall be the suprenie law bf the land.
13ut those powers which authorize legislation touching the
health, morals, good order, and peace of their people were not
delegated, and are so essential to the existence and prosperity
of the States that it is not to be presumed that they will be
encroached upon so as to impair their reasonable exercise.
How can these reserved powers be reconciled with the conceded power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce? As
said above,.the State cannot exclude an article from commerce,
and consequently from importation, simply by declaring that
its policy reqires such exclusion, and yet its regulationg
respecting the possession, use, and sale of any article of com.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Concurrng Opinion: Field, J.

meree may be as minute and strict as required by the nature
of the article, and the liability of injury from it, for the safety,
health and morals of its people.
In the opinon of the court it is stated that the effect of the
right of importation upon the asserted right, as a consequence
thereof, to sell the article imported is not involved in this case,
and therefore it is not necessary to express any opinion on the
sub3ect. The case, it is true, can be decided, and has been decided, without expressing an opinion onl that subject; but with
great deference to ny associates, I must say that I think its
consideration is presented, and to some extent required, to
meet the argument that the right of importation, because carrymg the right to sell the article imported, is inconsistent with
the right of the State to prohibit the sale of the article absoNlutely, as held in the Kansas case. With respect to most subjects of commerce, regulations may be adopted touching, their
use and sale when imported, which will afford all the protection and security desired, without going to the extent of absolute prohibition. It is not found difficult, even with the most,
dangerous articles, to provide such minute and stringent
regulations as will guard the public from all harm from
them. Arsenic, dynamite powder, and nitro-glycerine are
imported into every State under such restrictions, as to their
transportation and sale, as to render it safe to deal in them.
There may be greater difficulty in regulating the use and sale
of intoxicating liquors; and I admit that whenever the use of
an article cannot be regulated and controlled so aa to insure
the health and safety of society, it may be prohibited and the
article destroyed.
That the right of import aion carries with it the right to
sell the article imported does not appear to me doubtful. Of
course I am speaking of an article that is in a healthy condition, for when it has become putrescent or diseased it has
ceased to be an article of commerce, and it may be destroyed
or its use prohibited. To assert that, under the Constitution
of the United States, the importation of an article of commerce cannot be prohibited by the States, and yet to hold that
when imported its use and sale can be prohibited, is to declare

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAIL'WAY CO.

505

ConeurrIng Opinion. V'ield, 3.

that the right which the eonstitution gives is a barren one, to
be used only so- far as the burden of transportation 3s concerned, and to be denied so far as any benefits from such
transportation are sought. The framers of the Constitution
never intended that a right given should, not be fully enjoyed.
In Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 4A46, Chief Justice
Mfarshall, in delivering the opinion of the court, speaking of
the-commercial power-of Congress, and after observing that it
is co-extensive -with the subject on which it acts, and cannot
be stopped at the exterior boundary of a State, but must enter
its interior, said: "If this power veaches the interior of a State,
and may be there exercised, it must be capable of authorizing
the sale of those articles which it nitroduces. Commerce is
intercourse; -one of its most ordinary ingredients is traffic.
It is inconceivable that the power to authorize this traffic,
when given in the most comprehensive terms, with the intent
that its efficacy should be complete, should cease at the point
when its continuance is indispensable to its value. To what
purpose should the power to allow importation be given, unaccompanied -with the power to authorize a sale of the thing miported ? Sale is the object of importation, and is an essential
ingredient of that intercourse of which importation constitutes
a part. It is as .essentia an ingredient, as indispensable to the
existence of the entire thing, then, as importation itself. It
must be considered as a component part of the power to regulate commerce. Congress has a right, not oifly to authorize
importation, but to authorize the importer to sell. . .
The power claimed by the State is, in its nature, in conflict
with that given to Congress; and the greater or less extent in
which it may be exercised does not enter into the inquiry concerning its existence. We think, then, that if the power to
authorize a sale exists in Congress, the conclusion that the
right to sell is connected with the law permitting importation,
as an inseparable incident, is inevitable.' And the Chief Justice added: "We suppose the principles laid down m this case
to apply equally to importations from a sister State." p. 4-49.
Assuming, therefore,, as correct doctrine that the right of
inportation carries the right to sell the article Imported, the

506-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Concurring Opinion: Field, X.

decision in the Kansas case may perhaps be reconciled with
the one in this case by distinguishing the power of the State
over property created within it, and its power over property
imported-its power in one case extending, for the protection
of the health, morals, and safety of its people, to the absolute
prohibition of the sale or v:-e of the article, and in the other
extending only to such regulations as may be necessary for
the safety of the community until it has been incorporated
into and become a part of the general property of the State.
However much this distinction may be open to criticism, it
furnishes, as it seems to me, the only way in which the two
decisions can be reconciled.
There is great difficlty in drawing the line precisely where
the commercial power of Congress ends and the power of the
State begins. The same difficulty was experienced in Brown
in drawing a line between the restriction on the
v. Xrli,
States to lay a'duty on nnpor'ts and their acknowledged power
to tax persons and property. In that case the court said that
tle two, the power and the restriction, though distinguishable
when they did not approach each other, might, like the intervening colors between white and black, approach so nearly as
to perplex the understanding as colors perplex the vision, in
marking the distinction between them: but as the distinction
existed, it must be marked as the cases arise. And after observing that it -might be premature to state any rule as being
universal in its application, the court held as sufficient for that
case that when the importer had so acted upon the thing imported, that it had become incorporated and mixed up with
the mass of property in the country, it had lost its distinctive
character as an import, and had becomie subject to the taxing
power of the state; but that while remaining the property of
the importer, in his warehouse in the originil form or package
in which if was imported, a tax upon it was plainly a duty on
imports.
So in the present case it is perhaps impossible to state any
rule which would determine mall cases where the right to sell
an imported article under the commercial power of the Fed eral government ends and the power of the state to restrict

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.
Concuring Opimon: Field, J.

further sale has commenced. Perhaps no safer rule can be
adopted than the one laid do*n in .Brow v. .Ma-rylnd,that'
the commercial power continues until the articles imported
have become mingled with and incorporated into the general
property of the State, and not afterwards. And yet it is evident that the value of the importation will be materially affected,
if the article imported ceases to be under the protection
of the commercial power upon its sale by the importer. There,
will be little inducement for one to purchase from the importer, if immediately afterwards he .can himself be restrained from
selling the article imported; and yet the power of the State
must attach when the imported' article has become mingled
with the general property within its limits, or its entire independence in the regulation of its internal affairs must be abandoned. The difficulty and embarrassment which may follow
must be met as each case arises.
In Ti icemse Casms, reported in 5 Howard, this court held
that the States could not only regulate the sales of imported
liquors, but could prohibit their sale. The judges differed in
their views in some particulars, but the majority ,vere of opinion that the States had authority to legislate upon subjects of
interstate commerce until Congress had acted upon them; and

as Congress had not acted, the regulation of the States was
valid. The doctrine thus declared has been modified since by
repeated decisions. The doctrine now firmly established, is,
that where the subject upon which Congress can act under its
commercial power is local in its nature or. spher6 of operation,
such as harbor pilotage, the improvement of harbors, the establishment of beacons and buoys to guide vessels in and out
of port, the construction of bridges over navigable rivers, the
erection of wharves, piers, and docks, and the like, which can
be properly regulated only by special provisions adapted to
their localities, the State can act until Congress interferes and
supersedes its authority; but where the subject is national in
its character, and admits and requires uniformity of regulation,
affecting alike all the States, such as transportation between
the States, including the importation of goods from one State
into another, Congress can alone act upon it and provide the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Concurring Opinion. Field, 3.

needed regulations. The absence of any law of Congress on
the subject is equivalent to its declaration that commerce in
that matter shall be free. Thus the absence of regulations as
to interstate commerce with reference to any particular subject is taken as a declaration that the importation of that
article into the States shall be unrestricted. It is only after
the importation is completed, and the property imported has
mingled with and become a part of the general property of
the State, that its regulations can act upon it, except so far as
may be necessary to insure safety in the disposition of the import until thus mingled. Cooley v. Board of TF'rne of the
Por of Philade p ia, 12 How. 299, 319; State .. rMght Ta
Case, 15 Wall. 232, 271; TVelon v. .Mesouzri, 91 U. S. 275,
282; Railroad Co. v. H'usen, 95 U. S. 465, 469; .7ifobi e v
.imhall, 102 U. S. 691, 697, Gloucester Ferry Co. v..Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 203, Broun v. Hfousfto, 114 U. S. 622,
631, Wfa
7hW
v. .3icigan, 116 U. S. 446, 455; .Picae
%d'v.
Pulman, Southe wa'
Co., 117 U. S. 34; TFahask &c. Railway Co. v. Ilinzois, 118 U. S. 557; .obbim v. She2by County
Taadng .Di8trict, 120 U. S. 489.
It is a matter of history that one of the great objects of the
formation of the Constitution was to secure uniformity of commercial regulations, and thus put an end to restrictive and hostile discriminations by one State agamst the products of other
States, and against their importation and sale. "It may be
doubted," says Chief Justice Marshall, "whether any of the
evils proceeding from the feebleness of the Federal government contributed more to that great revolution which introduced the present systen than the deep and general conviction
that commerce ought to ba regulated by Congress. It is not,
therefore, matter of surprise that the grant should be as extensive as the. mischief, and should comprehend all foreign
commerce and all commerce among the States. To construe
the power so as to impair its efficacy would tend to defeat an
object, in the attainment of which the American government
took, and justly took, that strong interest which arose ,from
a full conviction ef its necessity." Brown, v. M'aryland, 12
Wheat. 446. To these views I may add, that if the States

BOWYAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

509

Dissenting. Opinion: Waite, C.J., Harlan, Gray, JJ.

have the power asserted, to exclude from importation within
their limits any articles of commerce because in their judgment the articles may be injurious to their interests or policy,
they may prescribe conditions upon which such importation
will be admitted, and thus establish a system of duties as hostile to free commerce among the states as any that existed
previous to the adoption of the Constitution.
.up- JusTio.

HA-eiA,

with whom concurred THE CmF

JusmoE, and Mu. JusTiCE GRAY, dissenting.
The Chief Justice, Mr. Jistice.Gray, and myself are unable
to assent to the opinion and judgment of the court.
The effect of the statutes of Iowa is to forbid the introduction of intoxicating liquors from other States for sale, except
for medicinal, mechanical,- culinary, or sacramental purposes.
They may be brought in for such purposes, by any person, or
carrier, for another person or corporation, if consigned to
some one authorized by the laws of Iowa to buy and sell
intoxicating liquors. And these statutes permit the sale of
foreign intoxicating liquors, imported under the laws of the
United States, provided such sale is by the importer, in the
original casks or packages, and in quantities not less than
those in which they are required to be imported.
It appears upon the face of the declaration that the plaintiffs - one of whom is a citizen of Iowa - made application
to the board of supervisors of Marshall County, in that State,
for permission, under the statute, to buy and sell in that
county intoxicating liquors for medicinal, culinary, mechanical, and sacramental purposes, and that their application was
rejected. They then resorted to the expedient of buying five
thousand barrels of beer in Chicago, and tendering them to
the railroad company for transportation to the same county,
without furnishng the certifcate required by the laws of
Iowa. The refusal of the company to transport this beer into
Iowa, in violation of her laws, is the basis of the present suit.
The plaintiffs claim damages upon the ground that they could
have sold this beer in that State at a price in advance of what

OCTOBER TERM; 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.3., Harlan, Gray, 33.

it cost them. As they do not allege that the beer -was to be
delivered in Iowa to a person authorized by her laws to sell it
there, no wrong was done, of which the plaintiffs can complain, unless it be their right, not only to have their beer
carried into the State, but to sell it there, in defiance of her
lews.
The fundamental question, therefore, is, whether Iowa may
lawfully restrict the bringing of intoxicating liquors from
other States into her limits, by any person or .carrier, for
another person or corporation, except such as arercongigned to
persons authorized by her laws to buy and sell them for the
special purposes indicated. In considering this question, -w6
are not left to conjecture. as to the motives prompting the
enactment of these statutes; for, it is conceded, that the prohibition upon common carriers bringing IntoxicEting liquors
from other States, except under the foregoing conditions, was
adopted as subservient to the general design of protecting the
health and morals and the peace and good order of the people
6f Iowa against the physical and moral .evils resulting from
the unrestricted manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors.
In .ug r v. .aRnsas 123 UT. S. 623, it -was adjudged that
state legislation prohibiting the manufacture of intoxicating
liquors, to be sold or bartered for geneial use as a beverage,
did not necessarily infringe any right, pilivilege, or immunity
secured by the Constitution of the United States, and that the
former decisions to that effect -Li'ense Cases, 5 How. 501,
Barterneyer v. Iowa, 18 'Wall. 129 ;-.Beer Co. v. .D!Tsac7 etts,
97 13. S. 25, 33; and Foster.v .cnsas, 112 U. S. 201, 206"rest upon the acknowledged right of the States of the Union
to control their purely internal affairs, and, in so doing, to
protect the health, morals, and safety of their people by regulations that do not interfere with the execution of the powers
of the. general government, or violate rights secured by the
Constitution. The power to establish such regulations, as was
said in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, reaches everything
within the territory of a State not surrendered to the national
government." 123 U. S. 659. Referring to the suggestion
that no government could lawfully prohibit a citizen from

BOWMANW v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.
Dissenting Opinion.-Waite,

611

C.3., Harlan, Gray, X3.

manufacturing for his own use, or for export or storage, any
article of food or drink, not endangering or affecting the rights
of others, the court said: "But by whom, or by what authority, is it to be determined whether the manufacture of particular arMcles of drink, either for general use or for the personal
use of the maker, will injuriously affect-the public? Power to
determine such questions, so as to bind all, must exist somewhere; else society will be at the mercy of the few, who,
regarding only their own appetites or passions, may be willing
to imperil the peace and security of the many, provided only
they are permitted to do as they please. Under our system
that power is lodged with the'legislative branch of the government. It belongs to that department to exert what are known
as the police powers of the State, and to determine, primarily,
what measures are appropriate or, needful for the protection
of the public morals, the public health, or the public safety."
123 U. S. 660, 661.
But it is contended that a statute forbidding the introduction of intoxicating liquors from other States, does infringe
rights secured by the Constitution of the United States; and
that view is sustained by the opinion and judgment in this
case. The decision is placed upon the broad ground that
intoxicating liquors are merchantable commodities, or known
articles of commerce, and that, consequently, the Constitution,
by the mere grant to Congress of the power to regulate commerce operates, m. the absence of legislation, to establish
unrestricted trade, among the States of the -Union, in such
commodities or articles. To this view we cannot assent. In
Mugler's case the court said that it could not "shut out of
view the fact, within the knowledge of all, that the public
health, the public morals, and the public safety may be
endangered by the general use of intoxicating drinks ; nor the
fact, established by statistics accessible to every one, that the
idleness, disorder, pauperism, and crime existing in the country
are, in some degree at least, traceable to this evil." The
court also said, that "if, in the judgment -of the legislature
[of a State] the manufacture of intoxicating liquors for the
maker's own use, as a beverage, would tend to cripple, if not

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion. Waite, C.J, Harlan, Gray, J-.

-defeat, the effort to'guard the community against the evils
attending the excessive use. of such liquors, it is not for the
courts, upon their view as to what is best and safest for tho
community, to disregard the legislative determination of that
question. . . . lor can it be said that government interferes with or impairs any one's constitutional inights of liberty
or of property, when it determines that the manufacture and
sale of intoxicating drinks for general or individual use, as a
beverage, are or may become hurtful to society, and constitute,
therefore, a business in which, no one may lawfully engage."
123 U. S. 662, 663.
In G6qbons v. Ogdm, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, 205, Ohief Justice
Marshall said that "inspection laws,-quarahtine laws, and
health laws of every description" were component parts of
that mass of legislation, "not surrendered to the general goverment," which "can be most advantageously exercised by
the States themselves;" that such laws "are.. considered as
.flowing from the acknowledged power of a State to provide
for the health of its citizens." To this doctrine the court has
steadily adhered. In Gilman v. -Phia pAia, 3 Wall. 713,
730, after observing that a state law, requiring an importer
to pay for and take out a license before he should be permitted to sell a bale of goods imported from a foreign country,
is void, (Brown v. Mfarylzn, 12 Wheat. 419,) and that a state
law which requires the master of a vessel, engaged in foreign
commerce, to pay a certain sum to a state officer on account
of each passenger brought from a foreign country, is also
void, (Passenger Cases, I How 273,) the court said: "But a
State, in the exercise of its police power, may forbid spirituous
liquor, imported from abroad or from another State, to be
sold by retail or to be sold at all without a license, and it
may visit the violation of the prohibition with such punishment as it may deem proper. 'Under quarantine laws, a
vessel registeredi or enrolled and licensed, may be stopped
before entering her port of destination, or be afterwards removed ind detained elsewhere for an indefinite period, and a
bale of goods, upon which the duties have or have not been
paid, laden with infection, may he seized under ' health laws,'

ROW3MAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

.513

Dlsqenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Harlan, Gray, JM.

and, if it cannot be purged of its poison, may be committed
to the fames." In &wrloc v. AlZng, 93 U. S. 99, 103, it
was said that 11in conferring upon Congress the regulation ofcommerce, it was never intended to out the States off from
legislating on all subjects relating to the health, life, and safety
of their citizens, though the legislation might indirectly afect
the commerce of the country." In ?aziroad Co. v. Zusen,
95 U. A. 465, 41T, the court adjudged that a statute of Missouri, prohibiting .the introduction into that State of all
Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle between May 1 and November 1 of each year, whether diseased or not, and whicl
nnposed burdensome conditions upon their transportation
through the State, was void because a regulation of interstate commerce. But it was distinctly declared that the delegation to Congress of the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the States 11was not a surrender of
that which may properly be denominated police power,"
which included, the court said, the power, in each State, to
adopt "1precautionary measures against social evils" ; to " prevent the spread of crime or pauperism, or disturbance of the
peace"; to "exclude from its limits convicts, paupers, idiots,
and lunatics, and persons likely to become a public charge, as
well as persons afficted by contagious or infecticus diseaseg";
and to exclude "property dangerous to the property of citizens of the State; for example, ammals having contagious or
infectious diseases." "1All these," it was said, are in immediate connection with the protection of persons and property
against noxious acts of other persons, or such use of property
as is injurious to the property of others; they are self-defensive." It was only because the Missouri statute embraced
cattle that were free from disease, that it was declared unconstitutional. In .PatM2erob v. .eauoky, 97 U. S. 501, 505, the
principle was affirmed that the police power of the States was
not surrendered, when authority was conferred upon Congress
to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
States.
It seems to us that the decision just r6ndered does not conform to the doctrines of the foregoing cases, and may mpah4
vOL. cxxv-83

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion. Waite, C.3., Harlan, Gray. 33J.

if it does not destroy, the power of a State to protect her
people against the injurious- consequences that are admitted to
flow from the general use. of intoxicating liquors. It was said
in Brown v. State of 3fary and, 12 Wheat. 419, 439, 441.
"There is no difference, in effect, between a power to prohibit
the 8ale of an article and a power to prohibit its introduction
When the importer has so acted
into the country . .
upon the thing imported, that it has become incorplorated and
mixed up with the mass of property in the country, it has,
erhaps, lost its distinctive character as an import, and has
ecome subject to the taxing power of the State; but while
remaining the property of the importer, in his warehouse, in
the 6 riginal form or package in which it was imported, a tax
upon it is too plainly a duty on imports to escape the prohibition in the Constitution." Considering the question in that
case, under the power of Uongress to regulate commerce, the
court said: "1Sale is the object of importation, and is an essential ingredient in that intercourse, of which importation constitutes a part. It is as essential an ingredient, as indispensable to the existence of the entire thing, then, as Importation
itself. It must be considered as a component part of the
power to regulate commerce." p. 44t. ..Athough there was
no question in that case as to commerce among the States, the
court further said: "We suppose the principles laid down in
this case to apply equally to importations from a sister State."
p. 449. If, therefore, as the court now decides, the Constitution gives the right t transport intoxicating liquors into Iowa
from another State, and if that right carries with it, as one of
its essential ingredients,. authority, in the consignee, to sell or
exchange such articles, after they are so brought in, and while
in his possession, in the original packages, it is .nanifest that
the regulation forbidding sales of intoxicating, liquors, within
the State, for other than medicinal, mechanical, culinary, or
sacramental purposes, and then only under a permit from a
board of supervisors, will be of little practical value. In this
view, any one- even a citizen of Iowa-desiring to sell intoxicating liquors in that State, need only arrange to have
them delivered to him from some point in another State, in

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &o. RAILWAY CO.

515

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Harlan, Gray, JJ.

packages of varying sizes, as may suit customers. Or, he may
erect- his manufacturing establishment, or warehouse, 'just
across the Iowa line, in some State having a different public
policy, and thence, with wagons, transport liquors into Iowa.,
in original packages. If the State arraigns hun for a violation
of her laws, he may clai -and, under the principles of the
present decision, it may become difficult to dispute the claim
-that, although such laws were enacted solely to protect the
health and morals of the people, and to promote peace and
good order among them, and although they are fairly adapted
to accomplish those objects, yet the Constitution of the United
States,.without any aotion upon the part of Congress, secures
to him the right to bring or receive from other States intoxicating liquors in original packages, and to sell them, while held
by him m such packages, to all choosing to buy them. Thus,
the mere silence of Congress upon the subject of trade among
the States m intoxicating liquors is made to- operate as a
license to persons doing. business in one State to jeopard the
health, morals, and good order of another State, by flooding
the latter with intoxicating liquors, against the express will of
her people.
It is admitted that a State may prevent the introduction
within. her limits of rags or other goods infected with disease,
or of cattle or meat, or other provisions which, from their
condition, are unfit for human use or consumption; because,
it is said, such articles are not merchantable or legitimate subjects of trade and commerce. But suppose the people of a
State believe, upon reasonable grounds, that the general -se
of intoxicating liquors is dangerous to the public peace, the
public health, and the public morals, what authority has Congress or thE. judiciary to review their judgment upon that sub.
ject, and compel them to submit to a condition of things which
they regard as destructive of their happiness and the peace
and good order of society? If, consistently with the Constitution of the United States, a State can protect her sound cattle
by prohibiting altogether the introduction within her limits of
diseased cattle, she ought not to be deemed disloyal to that
Constitution when she seeks by similar legislation to protect

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinon: Waite, C.3., Harlan, Gray, 3T.

her people and theirhomes dgamst the introduction of articles
which are, in good faith, and not unreasonably, regarded by
her citizens as "laden with infectio n ," more dangerous to
the public than diseased cattle, or than rags containing the
germs of disease.
It is not a satisfactory answer to these suggestions, to say
that if the State may thus outlaw the manufacture and sale of
intoxicating liquors, as a beverage, and exclude them from her
limits, she may adopt the same policy with -reference to articles that confessedly have no necessary or nmediate connection with the health, the morals, or the safety of the community, but axe proper subjects of trade the world over.
This possible abuse of legislative power was earnestly dwelt
upon by the counsel in .vg e2r's Case. The same argument
can be, as it often is, made in reference to powers that all concede to be vital to the public safety. But it does not disprove
their existence. This court said that the judicial tribunals
were not to be misled by mere pretences, and were under a
solemn duty to look at the substance of things whertever it became necessary to inquire whether the legislature had transcended the limits of its authority; and that, "if, thereTore, a
statute purporting to have been enacted to protect the public
health, the public morals, or the public safety has no real or
substantial relation to those objects, or is a palpable invasion
of rights secured by the fundamental law, it is the duty of the
courts to so adjudge, and thereby give effect to the Costitution." 123 U. S. 661. In view of these principles, the court
said it was difficult to perceive any ground for the judiciary
to declare that the prohibition by a State of the manufacture
or sale, within her limits, of intoxicating liquors for general
use there as a beverage, is not fairly adapted to the end of
protecting the community against the evils which confessedly
result from the excessive use of ardent spirits. Id. 662. In
the same case the court sustained, without qualification, the
authority of Ka.nsas to declare, not only that places where
such liquors were manufactured, sold, bartered, or given away,
or were kept for sale, barter, or delivery, in violation of her
statutes, should be deemed common nuisances, but to provide

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

5.17

Dissenting Opinion. Waite, C.J., Harlan, Gray, JJ.

for the forfeiture, without compensation, of the intoxicating
liquors found m such places and the property usedim maintaming said nuisances.
Now, can it be possible that the framers of the Constitution intended -whether Congress chose or not to act upon
the subject -to withhold from a State authority to prevent
the introduction into her midst of articles or commodities, the
manufacture of which, within her limits, she could prohibit,
without impairing the constitutional rights of her own people?
If a State may deblare a place where intoxicating liquors are
sold for use as a beverage to be a common nuisance; subjecting
the person maintaining the same to fine and imprisonment,
can her people be compelled to submit to the sale of such
liquors, when brought there from another State for that purpose? This court has often declared that the most important
function of government was to preserve the public health,

morals, and safety; that it could not divest itself of that
power, nor, by contract, limit its exercise; and that even the
constitutional prohibition upon laws impairing the obligation
of contracts does not restrict the power of the State to protect the health, the morals, or the safety of the commuptity, as
the one or the other may be involved in the execution of such
contracts. Stone v. Misi8s pi, 101 UT. S. 814, 816; Butchers'
nion Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746, T51; .few Or-

lean Ga8 Co. v. rousiana Zight Co., 115 1U. S. 650, 672;
.3fug(erv. Kansma, 123 U. S. 628, 664. Does the mere grant
of the power to regulate commerce among the States invest
individuals of one State with the right, even without the express sanction of Congressional legislation, to introduce among
the people of another State articles which, by statute, they

have declared to be deleterious to their health and dangerous

to their safety? In our opinion, these questions should be
answered in the negative. It is inconceivable that the wellbeing of any State is at the mercy of the liquor manufacturers
of other States.
These views are sustained by WaZlng v. Michigan, 116
U. S. 446. It was there, held that a statute of lichigan which
imposed a tax upon persons who, not residing or having their

OCTOBER TERME,

1887.

Dissenting Opnion. Waite, C.J., Harlan, Gray, J.

principal place of business in that State, -engaged there in the
business of selling or soliciting the sale of intoxicating liquors
to be shipped into Michigan from other States, but which did
not inpose a similar tax upon persons selling or soliciting the

sale of intoxicating liquors manufactured in that State, was a
discrnmnation against the products of other States, and void
as a regulation in restraint of commerce. In reference. to the
suggestion by the state court that the statute was an exercise
by the legislature of the police power for the discouragement
of the use of intoxicating liquors, and the pieservation of the
health and morals of the people, this court said. 1 This would
be a perfect justification of the act if it did not discrimnate
against the citizens and products of other States in a matter
'of commerce- between the States, and thus usurp one of the
prerogatives of the national legislature." p. 460. The clear
ifiiplication from this language is that the state law would
have been sustained if it had applied the same rule to the
products of Michigan which it attempted to apply to the
products of other.States.
At the argument it was insisted that the contention of the
plaintiffs was supported by Bro
v. MayZand, 12 Wheat.
419, 436, where the question was whether the legislature of a
State could'constitutionally require an importer of foreign
articles or commodities to take out a license from the State
before he should be permitted to sell a bale or package so imported. The indictment in that case charged Brown with
having sold one package of foreign "dry goods" -without
having such a license. The court held the state regulation to
be repugnantito that clause of the Constitution declaring that
no State shall, without the conserit of Copgress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be
absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws, as well
as to that clause which clothes Congress with power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes. Among other things, -it
said that the right *o sell articles imported from foreign
countries is connected with the law permitting importation,
as an inseparable incident; observing, at the close of the

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &o. RAILWAY CO.

519

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.3., Harlan, Gray, 3W.

opinion- that it supposed the principle laid down to apply
equally to importations from a sister State. It is, .however,
clear from the whole opinion that the court in .that observation had reference to commerce in articles having no connection whatever with the health, nmoials, or safety of the people,
and that it'had no purpose to withdraw or qualify the explicit
declaration, m Gi'om8 v. Ogden, that the health laws of the
States were a component part of that mass. of leglslation, the
power to enact which remained with the States, because never
surrendered to the general government. In behalf of Maryland it was insisted that thd constitutional prohibition of state
imposts or duties upon imports ceased the instant the goods
entered the country; therise, it was argued, the importer
"1may introduce articles, as gunpowder;wiich endanger a city,
into the midst of its population; he may introduce articles
which endanger the public Realth, and the power of selfTo this -argument Chief Justice
preserv.tion is denied."
Marshall replied: "The power to direct the removal of gunpowder is a branch 6f the police power, which unquestionably
remains, and ought to remain, with the States. If the possessor stores it himself out of town, the removal cannot be a
duty on imports, because it contributes nothing to the revenue.
If he prefers placing it in a public magazine, it is because he
stores it there, m his own opinion, more advantageously than
elsewhere. We are not sure that this may not be classed
among inspection laws. The removal or destruction of infectious or unsound articles is undoubtedly an exercise Qf that
power, and forms an express exception to the prohibition we
are considering. Indeed, the laws of the United States
expressly recognize the health laws of a State." This, we
understand to have been a distinct readjudication that the

police power, so far as it involves the public health, the
public morals, or the public safety, remains with the States,
and is not overridden by the National Constitution.
In Ggbof v. Ogden, it was said by counsel that the Constitution does not confer the right of intercourse between State
and State, and that such'right" has its source in those laws
whose authority is acknowledged by civilized man throughout

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion. Waite, C.01., Harlan,

Gray, J3.

the world. Chief Justice Marshall said: "This is true. Tho
Constitution found it an exfaing right, and gave to Congress
the power to regulate it." 9 Wheat. 211. - In the same case
he said that this power is "the power to regulate; that is, to
prescribe the rule by which commerce is to be -governed." p.
196. It may be said, generally, that free commercial intercourse exists among the several States by forbe of the Constitution. But as, by the express terms of that instrument, the
powers'hot delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to
the States, are resorved to the States respectively, or to the
people, and as, by'the repeated adjudications of this court, the
States have not surrendered, but have reserved, the power, to
protect, by police regulations, the health, morals, and safety of
their people, Congress may not prescribe any rule to govern
commerce among the States which prevents -the propir and
reasonable exercise of this reserved power. Even if Congress,
under ihe power to regulate commerce, had authority to declare what shall or what shall not be subjects of commerce
among the States, that power would not fairly imply authority
to compel a State to admit.witlnn her limits that which, in fact
is, or which, upon reasonable grounds, she may declare to be
destructive of -the health, morals, and peace of her people..
The purpose of committing to Congress the regulation of commerce was to insure equality of commercial facilities, by preventing one State from building up her own trade at the
expense of sister States. But that- purpose is not defeated
when a State employs appropriate mean's to prevent the introduction into her limits of what she lawfully forbids her own
people from-making. It-certainly was not meant to give citizens of other States greater rights in Iowa than Iowa's own
people have.
But if this be not a sound interpretation of the Constitution,
if intoxicating liquors are entitled to the same protection by
the lNational Government as ordinary merchandise entering
into commerce among the States ; if Congress, under the
power to regulate commerce, may, in its discretion, permit
or prohibit commerce among the States in intoxicating liquors; and, if, therefore, state police power, as the health,

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO &c. RMILWAY CO.

521.

Dissenting Opinion. Waite, C.J., Harlan, Gray, XT.

morals, and safety of the people may be involved in its proper
exercise, can be overborne by national regulations of commerce, the former decisions of this court would seem to show
that such laws of the States are valid, even where they affect
commercial intercourse among the States, until displaced by
Pederal legislation, or until they come in direct conflict with
some act of Congress. Such was the doctrine announced in
1FUllon v. 31 "eird Cee XMr,
Co., 2 Pet. 245. That case
involved the validity of an act of the legislature of Delalvare,
authorizing a dam to be built across a navigable stream, in
which the tide ebbed and flowed, and in which there was a
common and public way in the nature of a highway. The.
court, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall, said - 1 The act of
assembly, by which the plaintiffs were authorized to construct
their dam,.shows plainly that this is one of those many creelks,
passing through a deep level marsh adjoining the Delaware,
up which the tide flows for some distance. The value of the
property on its banks must be enhanced by excluding the
-waterfrom the marsh, and the health of the inhabitants probably improved. Measures calculated to produce these objects,
provided they" do not come into collision with the powers of
the Genera! Government, are undoubtedly within those which
are r~served to the States. But the measure authorized by
this act stops a navigable creek, and must be supposed to
abridge the rights of those who have been accustomed to use
it." p. 251. The counsel having insisted that the statut6
came in conflict with the power of Congress to -regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, the.
court said: "If Congress had passed any act which bore on
this case, any act in execution of the power to regulate commerce, the object of which was to control state legislation
over small navigable creeks into -which the tide flows, and
which abound throughout the lower country of the middle and
southern States, we should not feel -much difficulty in saying
that a state law coming in conflict with such act would be
void. But Congress has passed no such act. The repugnancy
of the law of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely
on its repugnancy to the power to regulate commerce with

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion. Waite, C.S., Harlan, Gray, M3.

foreign nations and among the several States; a power which
has not been so exercised as to affect the question." The same
principle is announced m many other cases. Gilmhxn v. Philadephi, 3 Wall.'1"; .Fwscanabx& Co. v 07icago, 107 U. S.678;
Calrdwell v. Amei can Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205; Hamilton
v. Yi7eMurg c. gailroad,119 U. S. 280; Huee y. Glover,
119 U. S. 543, 546. These were all cases of the erection of
bridges and other structures within the linfits of States, and
under their authority, across public navigable waters of the
United States. They were held not to be forbidden by the
Constitution, although such structures actually interfered with
interstate commerce. In Gibwn v. _Phil adeVkg and Cardwell v. Arnerca/ Brsdge Co., the bridges were without draws,
entirely preventing the passage of boats to poifits, in one case,
where the -tideebbed and flowed, and, in both cases, to points
where commerce had been previously carried' on. In amilton v. "icosburg ceo. .Railroad,the court said: "What the
form and character of the bridges should be, that is to say, of
what height they should be erected, and of what materials
constructed, and whether with or without draws, were matters
for the regulation of the Stat., subject only to the paramountauthority of Congress to prevent any unnecessary obstruction
to the free navigation of the streams. Until Congress intervenes in such cases, and exercises its authority, the power ofthe State is plenary. When the State provides for the form
and character of the structure its directions will control, except as against the action of Congress, whether the bridge be
with or without driws, and irrespective of its effect upon navi- gation." p. 281.
But, perhaps, the language of this court-all the judges
concurring - which most directly bears upon the question
before us, is found in 0o'ody of foWie v. ZinmzaZ,, 102 U. S.
691, 701, reaffirming Wi4l/son v. Blacdircd Creek .Mazrsh Com_pa . It was there said: "In i7w Jie, e Cases, (5 How.
50,) -which were before the court it 184:7, there was great
diversity of views in the opimons of the different judges upon
the operation of the grant of the commercial power of Congress in the absence of Congressional legislation. Extreme

BOWMA-IN v. CHICAGO &c. IAILWAY CO.

523

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Harlan, Gray, JJ.

doctrines upon both sides of the question were asserted by
some of the judges, but the decision reached, so far as it can
be viewed as determining any question of construction, was
confirmatory of the doctrine that -legislation of Congress is
essential to prohibit the action of the States upon the subject
thus considered." This language is peculiarly significant m
view of the fact that in one of the License Cases-Piercev.
question -was as
.'ez rampshire,5 How. 564 , 55T, 578 -the
to the validity of an act of that State, under winch Fierce was
indicted, convicted, and fined, for having, sold, without a local
town license, a barrel of gin, which he purchased in Boston,
transporued to Dover, NSew Hampshire, and there sold in the
identical cask in which it was carried to that State from Massachusetts.
In harmony with these principles the court affirmed at the
present term, in SmitA v. State of Alabama, 12, 1U. S.465, the
validity of a statute of tht State, making it unlawful for a
locomotive engineer, even when his tram is employed in interstate commerce, to drive or operate any tram of carjT upon a
railroad in that State, used for the transportation of persons,
passengers, or freight, without firsf undergoing an examination
by, and obtaining a license from, a board of engineers am.
pointed by the governor of Alabama. If a tram of cars
passed through that State to New Orleans, the engineer, however well qualified for his station, if not licensed by that local
board, was subject to be fined 3!ot less than fifty nor more than
five hundred dollars, and sentenced t6 hard-labor for the
county, for not more than six months. The court held that.
this statute "is not, considered in its own nature, a regulation
of interstate commerce"; that "it is properly an act of legislation within the scope of the admitted power reserved to th6
States to regulate the relative rights and duties of persons,
being and acting within its territorial jurisdiction, intended to
operate so as to secure for the public safety of person and
proper ty"; and that "so far as it affects transactions of commerce among the States, it does so only indirectly, incidentally,
and remotely, and not so as to burden or impede them, and m
the particulars on winch it touches those transactions at all it

OCTOBER TERAM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Harlan; Gray, XT.

is not in conflict with any express enactment of Congress on
the subject, nor contrary to any intention of Congress to be
presumed from its silence." Until Congress, by legislation,
prescribed the qualification of locomotive engineers employed
by railroad companies engaged in the transportation of passengers and goods among the States, Alabama. it was adjudged,
could fix the qualifications of such engineers, even when running in that State trams employed in interstate commerce.
.It would seem that if. the Constitution of the United States
does not, by its own force, displace or annul a state law, authorizing the construction of bridges or dams across public
navigable waters of the United States, thereby -wholly preventing the passage of vessels engaged in interstate commerce
upon such waters, the same Constitution ought not to be held
to annul- or displace a law of one of the States which, by its
dperation, forbids the bringing within her limits, from other
States, -articles which that State, in the most solemn manner,
has declared to be injurious to the health, morals, and safety
of her people. The- silence .of Congress upon the subject of
interstate commerce, as afficted by the police ]aws of the
States, enacted in.good fith. to promote the public health, the
public morals and the public safety, and to that end prohibitig the manufacture and sale, within their limits, of intoxicating liquors to be used as a beverage,-ought to have, at least, as
miuch effect as the silence of Congress in reference to physical
obstructions placed, under the authprity of a State, in a navigable water of the United States. The reserved power of the
States to guard the health, morals, and safety of their people
is more vital to the existen6e of society, than their power in
respect to trade and commerce having no possible connection
with those sub3ects.
For these reasons, we feel constrained to dissent from the
opinion and judgment of the court.
MR.TusTicE L~A-%A was not present at the argument of this
case, and took no part in its decision.

