SAGE v. M1EMPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Syllabus.

stitution. In the act of 1881, the legislature of New York
did not profess to undo anything which had been dotie under
the act of 1869, and certainly did not begin & novo in dealing
with the improvement. On the contrary, they took that
portion of the old assessment for the expense of regulating,
grading, and preparing the street for travel which remained
unpaid, and which had been declared to be void, and revived
it by a mere act of legislation as agamst the parties who had
been judicially declared not to be bound by it, adding interest
upon it from the time when it was first charged tp the State
by virtue of the cancellation, as well as a part of the expenses
incurred in maling the original assessment. Such an act of
the legislature seems to me to be in violation of that provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution
which declares that no State shall deprive any person of his
property without due process of law.
I am authorized by Mm. 'JusioE H.pzi to say that he
concurs in these views.

SAGE v. MEMPBIS AND LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD COMPANY.
MEMPHIS AND LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD
COMPANY v. SAGE.
APPEAI,

FROM THE OIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF APMAiTSAS.

Nos. 128, 127. Argued January 0, 9, 1888. -Decded

7Mrch i9,

1888.

Whether a receiver of the property of a railroad company shall he appointed

by a court of equity, is a matter within the discretion, of the court, and
this discretion is to be exercised sparingly, and with great caution, and
with reference to the special circumstances of each case as it arises.
A bill in equity, brought by a judgment creditor of a railroad company
against the company, which alleges in substance that the property of the
company Is so heavily mortgaged that i the plamtiil should attempt to
enforce payment of his debt by seizure and sale on execution there would

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
be no bidders at more than a nominal amount, while, If the property were
placed in the hands of a receiver by the couft, and held together and
carefully used in transporting passengers and freight, there would be a
large surplus each year for the payment of the plaintiffs debt, contains
ample averments to give a court of equity jurisdiction to appoint a
receiver of the property- but this point is decided on the facts of the
present case, and the court does not mean to say that one or more of the
judgment creditors of a railroad company can, as matter of right, require
such a property to be put in the hands of a receiver merely because the
company falls or refuses to pay its debts.
The fact that a judgment creditor filing a. bill in equity to obtain the
appointment of a receiver of the debtor's property did not first sue out
execution and have a return of nulla bona is immaterial, if not objected
to by the debtor, and if it appears on the admitted facts that so doing
would have been an idle ceremony.
If a court of equity is induced by imposition to appoint a receiver of the
property of a railroad company when one.%vould not have been appointed
had the court been aware of the exact situation, and the receiver is dis.charged on learmng the imposition, and during the receivership a fund
has accumulated from surplus earnings, trustees, representing mortgage
creditors of the corporation, who did not intervene in the suit pending
the receivership and set up no claim to the fund during the receivership
and had no claim to it except as mortgage trustees out of possession,
are not entitled to the fund.
It is again held that the mortgagor of a railroad is not required to account
to the niortgiagee for eariiings, even though the mortgage covers income,
while the mortgaged property remains in the mortgagor's possession,
and no demand has been made for it or for surrender of its possession
under the provisions of the mortgage.
Mortgage bondholders of a railroad company who obtain judgment on their
bonds or coupons and Intervene individually and without the appearance
of their trustees in a suit brought by a judgment creditor of the company
whose debt is not secured by the mortgage, in
nch a receiver has been
appointed, do not thereby deprive the plaintiff creditor of his priority
of right in the accumulating income from the property in the hands of
the receiver.

Tm case was stated by the court as follows:
The decree from which these appeals are taken relates to

the distribution of a fund in the registry of the Circuit dourt
arsing from
lthe
.operation, by its receiver; of the MNemphis
and Tittle Rook Railroad Company (as reorganized).; The
decree directed it to be paid to the surviving trustees in a
certain mortgage executed by that company, for distribution

SAGE v. MEMPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

among the beneficiaries under said mortgage. Sage and the
railroad company each complain of that decree; the former
insisting that the money should have been applied m satisfaction of a judgment obtained by hun against the company,
while the latter insisted that it was entitled to receiVe it.
The history of the claims of -the respective parties is as
follows:
On the 24th day of June, 1882, the Memphis and Little
Rock Railroad Company (as reorganized) in an action brought
by Russell Sage, on that day, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, confessed
judgment in his favor for the sum of one hundred and twentyfive thousand nine hundred and twenty-one dollars and thirteen cents, that sum being the aggregate amount, principal,
and interest, of a demand note for $115,4:79.03 executed by
that company, June 20, 1882, to the president of the Missouri
Pacific Railway Company, and indorsed by him to Sage, and
of another note of $10,000 held by the latter against the same
defendant.
On the same day on which this judgment was entered,
Sage commenced in the Chancery Court of Pulaski County,
Arkansas, a suit in equity against the Memphis and Little
Rock Railroad Company (as reorganized). The bill, after
setting out the judgment, alleged that the entire tangible
property of the company consisted of its railroad -extending
from its junction with the St. Louis, Iron Mountain, and
Southern Railroad, through the counties of Pulaski, lonoke,
Prairie, Monroe, St. Francis, and Crittenden to the Mississippi
River-an inclined track used to transfer its rolling-stock
across that river to Memphis, a steamboat, certain lands and
depot in that city, locomotives, cars, and other property, such
as are usually employed in the management of a railroad;
that the defendant by deed of May 1, 18-71, duly recorded,
mortgaged its property to trustees to secure the payment of
bonds, amounting to $250,000, and maturing in instalments
of $50,000 each, on the first day of May in the years 1879 to
1883, inclusive, of which instalments four were then due and
unpaid; that by deed of May 2, 1871, duly recorded, defend-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Ctse.

ant mortgaged its property, rights, and franchises of every
description to secure the payment of other bonds with coupons
attached, amounting to $2,600,000, payable July 1, 1907, and
bearing interest, after July 1, 1882, at the rate of eight per
cent per annum, that both of said mortgages authorized the
trustees to take possession of and sell the mortgaged property
upon the non-payment of any of the bonds or interest at
maturity; that the aggregate amount of the mortgages exceeded the salable value of the property and franchises of
every description owned by the company, or, at least, the sum
for which they would sell under execution; that by reason of
the existence of the mortgages no bidders could be found at
more than nominal- amounts for the property; that a large
part of the bonds secured by the mortgages being due and
unpaid, the trustees would interfere with the sale of any part
of the property under execution if the plaintiff should attempt,
in that mode, to enforce payment of this judgment; and that
for these reasons the suing out of -execution upon such judgment would cause useless expense and delay, and result in no
benefit whatever to plaintiff.
The plaintiff also alleged that if the company's property
was held together, and carefully used in the transportation of
passengers and freight, it would produce a large income,
sufficient to pay all operating expenses and necessary repairs,
leaving each year a large surplus to pay off and discharge
plaintiff's debt; that such mcome could be made only by
working the prbperty as a unit, for purposes of transportation;
consequently, the seizure and sale of it, or of any material
part thereof, would destroy its capacity to produce such
income, without benefit to the plaintiff, and at the same time
incommode the public by destroying the use of the road in the
manner contemplated by the State.
The bill further alleged that the company had hitherto
failed and refused to apply its surplus income to the payment
of its debts, and unless prevented would continue in that
course, and apply its surplus to other uses to his great injury
and loss.
The relief asked was that the court take possession of and

SAGE v. MEMPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

operate the road, by a receiver, and, in that manner, seiZe
upon the only means in reach of the law for satisfying the
plainti s demands; such relief to be subject to all the rights
and equities of the holders.of bonds or of said trustees.
The railroad company appeared and waived notice, and the
court being of opinion that the relief asked was necessary.,
for the protection of the plaintiff's interests and rights, E. K.
Sibley was appointed receiver. He was directed to take
possession of the entire railroad, with the inclines, connections. tracks, depots, rolling-stock, *books,papers, and all other
prQperty of the company of every kind. The company was
ordered to surrender possession and the receiver directed to
operate the railroad, m the usual manner, in the carriage of
passengers, freights, and express matter, keeping account of,
all receipts and expenses, and making report of all his acts
and doings, as might be required. Such surrender was made,
and possession was taken by the receiver.
John L. Far-well and Robert K. Dow, as stockholders of the
company, respectively intervened, October 14, 1882, and 1November 1, 1882, as defendants, and assailed the proceeding in
winch the receiver was appointed as being merely a financial
expedient, by which Sage and others could make a successful
speculation in the stocks and securities of the company. They
charged that the company was not really indebted to Sage in
any sum, and, among other things, they asked that he be
enjoined from prosecuting his judgment, and that the receiver
be discharged. On the 10th of November, 1882, they filed
their respective petitions for the removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States, and it was so removed.
On the'lst of December, 1883, Dow and many others, holding judgments rendered by default upon- preferred mortgage
and general mortgage 'oupons, filed their claims. These
judgments aggregated nearly $200,000. Two dayrs thereafter,
December 3, 1883, an order was entered requiring the receiver at once to surrender to the afiv'oad company all the
property of whatever kind in his custody as receiver; to pay
out of the money in his hands all sums and dues authorized
by the order appointing him; to retain the balance subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

the order of the court; and to make full report of his acts,
showing what moneys he had received and for what purpose
they had been expended. The order declared that the railroad and other property in the hands of the receiver were
delivered to the defendant only upon the condition -to winch
it assented -that it assume all the liabilities of the receiver
and agree to pay and discharge, out of the property or its
income, all demands which might be legally established by.
judgment agaanst the receiver; in defavlt whereof the court
might retake possession, and, by proper order, enforce the
payment of such judgments.
On the 12th day of February, 1884, the receiver filed a
report of his administration of the property, from which it
appeared that there were a few unsettled accounts for traffic
balances due to and from him, which he was unable to adjust.
The company assuming in open court to pay such balances as
were due from thp receiver, it was, by consent of the parties,
ordered that the receiver transfer to it all balances due to him,
and that it receive and retain them for its own use. Thereupon the complainant filed a petition praying that the receiver, out of the funds in his hands, pay his judgment in the
bill mentioned. The defendant filed a motion to strike from
the files sundry claims of H. Sanford and 'other creditors of
the defendant, and that the money in the hands. of the receiver, after paying the amount due the complainant, be paid
to the defendant and to certain-named creditors.
Upon the hearing, February 14, 1884, of the motion to
stiike out the claims of H. Sanford and others, said creditors
respectively amended their clams by adding the following:
" Claimant says that' the bill filed in this suit, and all the subsequent proceedings therein, have been simulated, collusive,
and fraudulent, and intended to cheat, hinder, and delay this
claimant, and others in like cases, in the collection of their
just debts, one of 'which is evidenced by said judgment in favor
of claimant; wherefore he prays that his said claim be paid
out of said fund in preference to all unsecured debts against
said defendant." The court, thereupon, overruled the motion
to itrike oit thelaims of Sanford and others.

SAGE -v. I.tBMPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

The cause was then referred to the master to report uporf
the charges of fraud and collusion made in the amended
claims. By subsequent order, the master was directed to shoiT
by his report the total amount of money which came to the
hands of the receiver; the amount expended by him in new
construction and improvement of the road; the operating
expenses of the road while in his hands; the amount paid
out by him in costs and attorneys' fees in this suit, to whom
paid, and for what services; and the total amount-of.aoney
with which the receiver should be charged in a final settfement of his accounts.
On the 23d of February, 1881, Dow and Maithews, trustees
in the mortgage of May 1, 1877, filed their claim and petition
of intervention, they having previously brought s'uit to foreclose. In thit petition they prayed that the moneys in the
hands of the receiver be applied in discharge of the bonds
secured by such mortgage. April 15, 1891, Dow, Matthews,
and Moran, trustees in the mortgage of. May 2, 1877, (the latter being successor of Pierson,) fled their claim of intervention praying that if the fund in court was not paid out on the
claim and intervention theretofore filed by Dow and Matthews, it be paid in discharge of overdue interest on the bonds
secured by the latter mortgage.
On the 22d of May, 1881, the master made a report embodying among others the following flndings- 1. That the total
amount which came to the hands of the receiver during his
term of office, was $1,675,919.73; 2. That the amount expended, during his administration, for new construction, was
$-810,992.92, not including .certain sums expended'for bridge
repairs, cross-ties, repairs io locomotives, and maintenance of
cars; 3. That the amount chargeable to the receiver on final
settlement of his accounts was $218,998.98, which he had deposited as required by the court, and that he was thereby fully
acquitted; 4. That the suit instituted by Sage was collusive
in that it was brought with the connivance of the railroad
company, for the purpose of shielding it by means of a re£eivership, against suits by the company's creditors; 5. That
during the receivership, the railroad was largely improved by

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Trustee.

.the receiver out of the income of the property, and that the
receiver was honest, competent, and faithful; 6. That Dow,
one of the trustees in both the preference and general mortgages of the compaty, was the managing trustee, having or
seeming to have the chief direction of all litigation involving
either the trustees or the holders of bonds secured by the general mortgage; 7. That the intervenors were holders of bonds
secured by the general mortgage, and that at no time during
the continuance of the receivership did the trustees, as trustees
of eithermortgage, seek to intervene in the cause, or to take
any action in regard to the property, or to cause its restoration
to the defendant company, or to take any steps to put an end
to the receivership, 8. That before the failure of the company
to pay any instalment of interest, Dow stated and threatened
that in case any default in the payment of such interest occurred, the bondholders would not take any steps to foreclose
the mortgage, but,.would bring as many separate suits at law
in the United States Circuit Court as could be separately
brought upon coupons taken from the bonds secured by the
.mortgages every six months.
Exceptions by Sage and the company to the master's report
having been overruled, it was adjudged that the money in the
registry of the court be paid to Robert K. Dow and Watson
Matthews, surviving trustees in what is called the preference
mortgage of May 1, 187, for distribution by them among the
beneficiaries under that mortgage, and that plaintiff pay all
the costs of this suit. From that decree Sage and the railroad
company have separately appealed. No appeal was prosecuted
by bondholders having judgments at law, and who, by the
decree, were placed upon an equality with other bondholders
secured by the same mortgage, who had not obtained judgments for the amount of their unpaid coupons.
.X-. rager Swaye for Sage, and for the Memphis and Little
Rook Railroad Company as against intervening trustees and
judgment creditors.

-M/r. U

u

.Rose for the trustee.

SAB v. 3E

fPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.

Argument for Trustee.

We are not concerned with the question as to.whether the
.railroad company could have claned the money accumulated
by the receiver; for the company did notclaim it. Of course
.itwas contended in the court below that the railroad company
had unlimited colitrol over the fund; and reference was made
to Gilmam v. -inois TeZ. Co., 91 U. S. 603, 607; Gaveton
.lailroa v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, 483, and Ameican .Bridge
Company v. H ideiZhcc 94- U. S., -798, where it is declared
in effect that where a mortgage executed by a railroad company grants its income, with privilege to the mortgakor to
use its income until possession is taken -bythe trustees named
in the mortgage, in operating the road, the trustees cannot
claim any part of the income accruing before they take, 6r at
least demand possession.
Those cases were, however, .m no wise. like that at bar;
they were cases where there were contests between the trustees and bon A creditors of the mortgagor. We have then
all the difference between an honest creditor and a fraudulent
claimant who has trumped up a spurious claim for the purpose of cheating, hindering, and delaying honest oreditars.
The methods that the law has devised for the protection of
the one can hardly be invoked for the accomplishment of the
ends of the other.
It is a requirement of public policy that parties dealing
with the corporation, or injured by it, shall have the right not
only to sue the party with which they deal, or wich has
injured them in the prosecution of its business, but also to
secure themselves upon any moneys or chattels, the proceeds
of that dealing and business,by means of the remedies provided for in like cases between natural persons. Srmit v.
'atemr R ilroad, 124 M- ss, 15-7. This nile is established for
the advantage of meritorious creditors; and can have no
application for the purpose of propping up a scherme devised
for their-overthrow.
In Gman v. l- nozs Te. 'Co., it is conceded that any
money derived from operating the road after the appointment
of a receiver could go to the trustees. The court say: "It is
clearly implied in these mortgages that the railroad company
VOL. COV-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Trustee.

should hold possession and receive the earnings until the
mortgagees should take possession, or the troger jui oial
lwrity Bould ionteyose." In ttis cme judicial authority
did interpose. Pending the receivership th6 fund accumulated in court after all the operating expenses of the road
were paid. By the terms of the mortgage the mortgagor is
estopped from claiming this money, which is dedicated to the
payment of its bonds.
While the receiver was in possession the trustees could not
take the property into their custody so as to appropriate its
income; and certaanly the bondholders should not suffer a loss
because by collusion with another the mortgagor has prevented
the bondholders and trustees from securing the same fund in
another and a legitimate manner.
By the terms of the mortgages the trustees could only enter
into possession on the written request of a majority of the
bondholders in value; a troublesome process requiring time
for its execution.' In the meantime the debtor was.accumulating a fund, not to be used for the legitimate purpose of
operating the road. but in payment of the spurious demand
of a fraudulent accomplice. Certainly a case of this ]Ind
requires a separate treatment; for if the fund is to be paid
over to the fraudulent parties, the court must not only condone the fraud, but must pay a reAard for its commission.
Where under a mortgage like that now before ihe court
the question as to the right to the surplus income is between
the mortgagor and the mortgagee alone, the surplus must be
awarded to the latter, because such is their contract, and any
other disposition of the fund would be an act of bad faith.
Pvlan v. Unomzauti and 07CeagoRailroad C"o., 5 Bissell, 237.
But apart from !he clause in the mortgage pledging the
income and money of the company to.the trustees, the money
was properly decreed to them, for, by reason of the trust
relationship between the parties and the admitted insolvency
of !he company, a court of chancery had jurisdiction to apply
the :fund to the payment of the bonds whose holders were
represented by the trustees, though ne judgments at law had
been recovered on them. Case v. Beguregard,101 U. S. 688;

'SAGE v. MEMPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Argument for Trustee.

In that simple aspect of the ease the. suit would be one for
equitable garnishment. Zzkg.v. .Pyan,18 Arkansas, 583. As
between the clains represented by the trustees and the sunu.
lated demand of Sage a court of chancery could not hesitate.
The suit seemed to be based on a contention that when a
corporation gets in debt beyond its present means of payment,
it may fly to a court of chancery as to a house of refuge; and
may ask its assistance to keep its creditors at bay. The object
of the plaintiff and defendant in this suit being t6 keep the
property of the latiter m the 'hands of a receiver indefinitely,
during which time there should be no officer of the defendant
upon whom legal process could be served, the whole proceeding was stamped with the grossesf fraud.. As was said in
Dm /ry
v. Cr088, 7 Wall. 299r, 303: "If the law permits the
debtor in Riling-circmnstancesto make choice of the persons
he will pay, it denies him.ti~dight in doing it to contrive that
the unpreferred creditor shall never be paid. In other words,
the law condemns any plan in the disposition of property
which necessarilyacecomplishes a fraudulent result."
It has of ten been remaAEd-t.hat the statutes against fraudulent conveyances are merely declaatory of the common law,
which unaided would have worked out-the same results. BMt
the statute in Aikansas is amply broad enough to cover the
device to which recourse was hadr in this case. That statute
declares that "every conveyance or assignment, in writing or
otherwise, of any estate or interest in lands, or in goods and
chattels, or things in action, or of any rents issuing therefrom,
and every charge upon lands, goods or things in action, or
upon the rents and profits thereof, and every bond, suit, judgment, decree, or execution, made or contrived with the intent
to hinder, delay or defraud creditors or other persons of their
lawful actions, damages, forfeitures, debts or demands, a-against creditors and purchasers prior and subsequent, shall be
void." Mansfield's, Digest, 1881, § 33%4.
1Every attempt by a debtor to violate or evade the law, so
as to delay his creditors in the collection of their debts, to the
hindrance of the due course and execution of the law, is
unquestionably fraudulent and void as against such creditors."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Trustee.

_imball v. nTomoson, 4 Cushing, 441, 447, S. 0 50 Am. Dec.

799.
If Sage could-expect to participate in a fund raised through
the fraudulent device contrived by him and the defendant,
the statute would necessarily be violated; for, instead of his
scheme being "void," it would be thoroughly effectual; and
the guilty party, by virtue of a decree in chancery, would
carry off the spoils. The law would not only be annulled, but
the courts, by assisting in the success of the unlawful device,
would render themselves accessory to the fraud. A contention
that so far violates fundamental principles cannot be sustained.
Bean v. Smith, 2 Mason, 252; Sitk v. Craft, 11 Bissell, 340;
lilSon v. ffor, 15 Iowa, 489, 493.
In Arkansas there is a statute against fraddulent conveyances: " E very person who shall be a party to any conveyance
or assignment of any real estate, or interest in any real estate,
goods or chose in, action, or any rents or profits issuing therefrom, or to any charge upon such estate, with intent to defraud
any prior or subsequent purchaser, or to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors or other persons, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction shall be fined in any sum not
less than $500." lMfusfield's Digest, 1884, § 1649.
If Sage had a judgment at law, yet in the eyes of a court of
chancery, by the light shed on the transaction by the testimony in this case, that judgment is no judgment. If 'hehas a
debt against defendant, it is simply a debt evinced by the contract. Jul v. _Elliott, 12 Mass: 31; llarni v. Sumner, 2
Pick. 137; Riggs v. .urray, 2 Johns. Oh. 565; BeacA v.
Files, 2 Pet. 675, 678.
t is not necessary to dwell on these cases, as they have no
application to the case where a corrupt motive is charged and
.proved. Where a deed is executed in contravention of -some
principle of law, but without any fraudulent intent, the courts
may hold that the grantee is not to be punished for mere
inadvertence;, but where. a well-defined intent to defraud
others is manifest, the courts cannot confer any benefit on a
party to the fraud without making themselves a party to the
fraudulent device. If they should do so, they would with one

SAGE v. MEAPMHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Argumont for Trustee.

breath condemn the transaction and eifforce its execution. In
a case of a deed .that is constructively fraudulent the conveyance is simply void; and the creditor stands with regard to
his debt just as if the deed had not been executed; but in this
case, fraud entered into the inception of the transaction end
gave color to it from beginning to end.
The creation of the supposed debt on which the judgment
was based was a part of one indivisible scheme to defraud and
injure others. Such a claim cannot be allowed to enter into
competition with .the claims of creditors that are without suspicion; and certainly we can find no case where a creditor
has ever been guilty of actual fraud in a proceeding by means
of which a fund has been raised, where he has been allowed to
participate in the fund.
This case is, however, far worse than any that has ever come
before the courts; for it is apparent that the defendant did not
owe Sage anything; and that behind the scenes- the whole
pretence of a debt due to him was, as the master reported " a
juggle" between the defendant and the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, which owned substantially all the stock of the
defendant company, the sole object and purpose being to cheat,
hinder and delay the creditors of thd latter.
The bondholders being very numerous, the trustees properly
represented them in the court below. Krigon v. &ewart, 93
U. S. 155; Ca ey v. Brown, 92 U. S. 171, Boyd v. Jfow8, 44

Arkansas, 316.
"The trustee of a railroad mortgage represents the bondholders in all legal proceedings carried 6n by him affecting his
trust to which they are not actual parties; and whatever binds
him, if he acts m good faith, binds them." S7 w v. Railroad
I7o., 100 U. S. 605, 611.
Finally, we are unable to perceive on what theory Sages
appeal is prosecuted. In his bill he only, prayed the relief
sought "subject to all the rights and equities of the holders of
said bonds, or of their trustees." He cannot therefore complain of a decree estabh3hing the superiorclaim of the trustbes.
Water TWorkv C0o. v. Barre, 103 U. 13. 516; Pavific. Railroad
v. Xetckumr, 101 U. S. 289; nited States v. Babbitt. 104 U. S.

767.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Trustee.

We submit that if there had been no clause in the mortgage
as to money and income, the trustees might have claimed the
fund simply by tins proceeding as.an equitable garnishment.
They had a duty to perform for the protection of the numerous
boidholders scattered throughout the world. The company
admitted its insolvency. There was a fund in court unappropnated, whick could only be reached by an intervention. The
right of the trustees to intervene was clear. Day v. .Fas.
bum,24: How. 352; liswaU v. Smpson, 14 How. 52, 66;
-American Bridge Co. v. Heide hack, ui eupra; FiTiam v.
6-Tbes, 17 How. 238, 256; Bxparte Boyd, 105 U. S. 6411, 652;
In .reHoward, 9 Wall. 175; Galveston Railroadv. (owdrey, 11
WaiL 459.
_rpart Boyd has
The New York statute referred to in
been enacted in Arkansas. Mansfield's Digest, 1884, § 3084.
Prior to the beginning of the equitable proceeding that .act
requires the issue of a writ of execution, and a, return of "no
property found." That part of the act was repealed by an act
approved March. 31, 1887, which enacts 1that.m suits to set
aside fraudulent conveyances and to obtain equitable garnishments, it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to obtain
judgment at law in order to prove insolvency; but in such
cases insolvency may be proved by any competent testimony,
so that only one suit shall be necessary in order to obtain the
proper relief." Statutes of Arkansas, 1887, p. 193.
This act is substantially similar to one enacted in West Virginia, and lately acted on by this court in Yest _Fairmot Ga
CoaZ Co. v. Dewey, 123 U. S. 329.
The property of the railroad company could not be sold
under execution by judgment creditors whose judgments were
based on coupons secured by the mortgages. Tice v. Annin,
2 Johns. Oh. 125, 130.
NTor can the property of a railroad company be sold under
execution. Gue v: Tide TFater Clanal Co., 241 How. 257; Railroad Co. v. James, 6 Wall. -750; JTacron v. !ude/ing, 21 Wall.
616, 623.
Where an execution can accomplish nothing its issue is not
a prerequisite to the filing of a creditor's bill. Frightv.
Cam,veU,27 Arkansas. 641.

SAGE v. MEMPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Opmfoi of the Court.

Besides, the admission of Sage that the propelty mortgaged
would not sufficd to pay the mortgage debt showed that the
issue of an execution would have been unavailing. Lex nemsMoreover, as was said by
JZei Cogit adZ Van 8eW inUii.
Chief Justice Marshall, "it is also true that if a claim is to be
satisfied out of a fund which is accessible only by the aid of a
court of chancery, application may be made in the first instance
to that court, winch will not reqmre that the claim be first
established in a court of law."
[The counsel also argued that the Rgailroad Company was
not entitled to the fund, as against the Trusteeg.]
Ma. JuSTIcE 3lABLAi,

after stating the facts in the above

language, delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not understand upon what principle the court below
held that the trustees in the mortgage of May 1, 187T, were
entitled, as against both the mortgagor company and Sage,
to claim the net earmugs of the road during the receivership.
The latter was a judgment creditor of the company, and it
was at his instance, in a suit commenced by him, that its
property was put in the hands of a receiver. This was done
because in the opinion of the court the appointment of a receiver was necessary "to protect plaintiff's fliterests and
rights." If the grounds set fortWin the bill were not sufficient
to justify the appointment of a receiver, they- were ample to
give a court of equity jurisdiction to do so. In- U[ion Tu t
Co. v. -Mnois .idkatd Co., 11-7 IT. S. -434, 458, the court
said: "The co-plaantiffs with Hervey were judgment creditors
of the Parts and Decatur Company, with executions returned
unsatisfied. The bill set out the precarious condition of all
the property held and used by the Illinois Midland Company,
and the necessity for a receiver, in the in erest of all the
creditors of all four of the corporations, to prevent the levy
of executions on such property; and it prayed for a judicial
ascertamment and marshalling of all the debts of all the corporations and their payment and adjustment as the respective
rights and interests -of the creditors -mght appear, and for

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

.general relief. The plaintiffs set forth that they represented
a majority of .the stock in all the corporations. This bill
was quite sufficient to enable a court of equity 'to administer
the property and marshal the debts, including those due the
mortgage bondholders, maling proper parties before adjudging the merits'
In the present case, it is true, Sage did not sue out execution upon his judgment and have a return of nuua bona. But
that point has become immaterial. The railroad company
made no such objection at the time the receiver wasappomted.Besides, suing out an execution would, according to the- facts
and the admission of the parties, have been an idle ceremony,
causing useless expense, and bringing no real benefit to the
plaintiff. It is true, also, that Sage did not sue in behalf of
all the creditors of the company or of such as might come in
and contribute to the expense of the litigation. He was not
bound to pursue that course. It was his privilege, under the
law, to sue for his own benefit, and it was within the power
of the court, for his protection as a judgment creditor, to place
the property of the debtor company in the hands of a receiver,
for administration under its orders. We do not mean to say
that a single judgment creditor or any number of such creditors of a railroad company are entitled, as matter of right,
to have its property put in the hands of a receiver, merely because of its failure or refusal to pay its debts. Whether a
receiver shall be appointed is always a matter of discretion,
to be exercised sparingly and with great caution in the ease
of quasi public corporations operating a public highway, and
always with reference to the special circumstances of each
case as it arises. All that we say m this connection is that,
under the circumstances presented in this case, the appointment of the receiver was within the power of the court. The
order appointing him and directing him to operate and manage
the property was not a nullity.
But it is contended that the suit instituted by Sage was
collusive and an imposition upon the court; that, as held by
the Circuit Judge, when the receiver was discharged, after
having served seventeen months, and the property was turned

SAGE '. DMMPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

over to the company the process of the court was not used
"in good faith. to collect complainant's judgment, but as a
means of placing the property and business of a railroad com.
pany in the hands of the court, to be managed through a re.
ceiver, to the end that the defendant may not be subject to
suits in the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, and in
order to enable the plaintiff and defendant, by agreement between them, through the receiver, to apply all the earnings
of the road during a series of years to the improvement and
betterment of the property," and that, consequently, the proceeding was not, in fact, an adversary one. 5 McOrary, 643,
64V7; 18 Fed. Rep. 571, 573. Whether this characterization
of that proceeding be just or not, it is not necessary in the
present case, and in the view we tfke of it, to determine. For
if it be just, the court below applied the proper remedy for
the abuse of its process, that is, it discharged the receiver and
turned the property back to the possession and control of the
company, winch, in the view taken of the facts by the Circuit
Judge, ought never to have been disturbed. And the court
proceeded, as was its duty, to dispose of the net earnings of
the property, while under the management of its officer, acting under its directions.
But did'the imposition, if any, practised upon the court,
inducing it to appoint a receiver when one would not have
been appointed had it been aware of the exact situation, add
anything to the legal or equitable rights of the trustees in
the .mortgage executed by the railroad company? Had the
receiver never been appointed, and had-the railroad company
operated the property ist as the receiver did, producing the
same amount of net earnings that were m the hands of the
receiver, at the time of his discharge, would the trustees in
the mortgage of May 1, 1877, have been entitled to demand
that such earnings be paid over to them?. Clearly not. "It
is well settled," this court said in Dow v. Memphis and Little
roc, &iroac Co., 124 T. S. 652, 65 , "that the mortgagor
of a railroad, even though the mortgage covers income, cannot
be required to account to the mortgagee for earnings, while
the property remains in his possession, until a demand has

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

been made on him therefor, or for a surrender of the possession under the provisions of the mortgage. That is the effect
of what was decided -bythis court in Ga veskm R1 ilroa v,
Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, 488." See also Gilm,= v i77. and
M-ss. e. 0o., 91 U. S. 603; Amerwan BrcZge Co. v. ReideZback, 94 U. S. 798; .ountze v. Oman a,Hot0 Co., 107 U. S. 378;
Teal v. Waiker, 111 U. S. 2, 250.
The trustees filed their bill of foreclosure June 26, 1889,. but
they did not intervene as trustees in this suit until February
23, 1884 , some time after the discharge of the receiver, and
after the property had been surrendered to the company.
Their clain and intervention shows upon its face that no part
of the interest accruing upon the bonds secured by their mortgage subsequent to January 1, 1882, had been paid at the time
they so intervened. By the terms of that mortgage, it was
provided that, in case of continuous default by the railroad
company, for thirty days, after maturity, in paying any, of
the sums specified in the interest coupons, the principal sums
in all the bonds "shall inmediately become due and payable,"
and, thereupon, the trustees, upon the written request of the
holders of a majority of said bonds, "shall enter upon and
take possession of all and singular the charter, franchises, and
property hereby conveyed, and shall and may sell the same
to the highest bidder for cash in hand," etc. There was no
moment pending the receivership when these trustees, upon
the request of the holders of a majority of the bonds, might
not have appeared in this suit, or in a separate suit in the
same court, and asked that the receiver hold for them as -well
as Sage, or that he be discharged and they put in possession
of' tfe mortgaged property, for the purposes of sale, pursuant
to the mortgage. N either they nor the bondholders elected to
pursue -that course. It may be that their action was dictated
in part by the fact, found by the master, that the railroad,
the principal security for thuir debts, was being largely
improved during the receivership out of the income of the
property, and that no part of that income was being diverted
to pay Sage's judgment or the debts of the company. If the
trustees, pending the receivership, had intervened and asked

SAGE v. 1EMPHIS &o.RAILROAD CO.
Opintqn of the'Court.

possession of the property, they might perhaps have been
entitled, as against general creditors, to the income of the
property thereafter accruing, upon the principles announced
by this court in Dow v. tempA. and Little _ock B_ ioad

Co. (as reorganized), 1241U. S. 652. But we do not perceive
any legal ground upon which they are entitled to the net
earnings of the property, while it was in the hands of the
receiver, in a suit instituted by a judgment creditor for the
protection of his own interests, and not of the interests of
the trustees, or of the bondholders, or of other creditors. His
suit was, in effect, an equitable.levy for his benefit, upon the
net income of the property. Other creditors, 4ho filed their
claims, based upon judgments, gain nothing, as between themselves and Sage, by the fact that their judgments were rendered upon coupons, which were secured by lien upon the
mortgaged property. Neither they nor their trustees, prior
to the termination of the receivership, chose to assert this lien.
NVor did they, pending the receivership, ask that the receiver
should, from and after their appearance, hold for them as well
as for Sage. They took action as sunple contract creditors,
whose claims were reduced to judgment. If the bondholders,
when intervening simply as judgment creditors, acquired an
interest in the fund, they could not, upon any recognized prm
ciples of equity, deprive the creditor, at whose intance and
for whose benefit the receiver was appointed, of his priority
of right, arising from the institution of suit for the purpose
of reaching the income of the debtor's property. The judgments at law obtained by bondholders upon their coupons
were all rendered after the receiver took possession -of the
property; some in the spring .of 1883, the larger part of them
in October and 1November of that year, just before the receiver
was discharged.
These conclusions are not affected by the fact that Sage, in
his bill, alleges that he seeks relief, subject to all the rights
and equities of the holders of bonds and of their trustees. It
was only meant by this to give assurance that he had no purpose, in asking the relief he did, to affect injuriously their
security, or the liens created in their behalf by the mortgages

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

referred to. Taking the allegations of his bill to be true, he
sought only, by means of a receivership, to reach the net income of the railroad company in satisfaction of his debt.
But it was insisted in argument that the judgment which
Sage obtained agaanst the railroad company was fraudulent, in
that the debt for which it was rendered was fictitious, that
he never in fact owned a real note executed by that company,
based upon any valuable consideration whatever. The record
not- containing the note or a copy of it, some question was
also made, in argument, if we did not misunderstand counsel,
whether any such note was ever in existence. We could not
sustain these propositions without reaching the conclusion that
there had been the most shocking perjury upon the part of
witnesses in this cause; a conclusion which the evidence does
not warrant. The judgment which Sage obtained by confession of the defendant company, in the Circuit Court of the
United States, recites that it appeared to the court, "as well
from the prdmissory notes with the complaint filed as from the
said confession and consent, that the defendant is indebted to
the 5laantiff m the sum aforesaid," etc. The record shows that
Sage, under date of June 20, 1882, addressed to the president
of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company a communication,
offering to give fifty cents on the dollar, payable in ninety
days, for its debt and note "1against the Memphis and Little
Rock Railroad Company (as reorganized), amounting, as I am
informed, to the sum of $115,479.03, your company guaranteeing that the said amount is justly due to it from the Memphis and Little Rock R. R. Co." The records of the former
company recite that on motion of Mr. Dillon, seconded by Mr.
Eckert, that offer was accepted, and that said debt and note
"1are hereby transferred and assigned to said Sage, and that
the president be and he is hereby authorized to execute any
further assignment of said debt that counsel may advise, and
also to indorse and deliver said note to the said Sage." Sage
swears in his deposition that he purchased, held, and brought
suit upon said note. The treasurer of the Missouri Pacific
Railway Compauy testifies that his company did, in. June,
1882. hold the note of the Memphis and Little Rock Company

SAGE v.

IEMIHIS &c. RAILROAD, CO.
Opimon of the Court.

(as reorganized) for $115,179.03, given by the latter company
for advances made by the Missouri Pacific Railway Company
to meet coupons of the former company. It is true, that, independently of the evidence furnished by the note, it does not
clearly appear that the advances made by the fissouri Pacific
Railway Company to the other company aggregated the full
amount of the note. But this deficiency in the proof is more
than made good by the fact that the note was given and that
the Memphis and Little Rook Railroad Company (as reorganized) confessed judgment for its amount, and does not now
dispute the debt; although, by its appeal, it claims that the
fund in court should be paid to it rather than applied to Sage's
judgment.
It is contended that Sage does not show that he has ever
paid to the Missouri Pacific Railway Company the amount
he agreed to give Tor the note of the.M1emphns and Little
Rock Railroad Company (as reorganized). Poof of that fact
was not vital in the case. After the acceptance of his offer to
purchase the note, and after it had been transferred by indorsement to him, he came under a legal obligation, which he
recognizes, to pay what he agreed to pay He cannot escape
that obligation.
For the reasons stated we are of opinion that the decree
below was erroneous in that it did not, m the order directing
the distribution of the, fund remaining in court, give a preference to the judgment at law obtained by the appellant
Sage.
Th7e decree reversed an~d caueremanded,with d-irectionsfor
fiirtsrproceeding8conswatnt with tide opinion.

