OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

of the United States-shall issue therefor, and shall relate back
to the date of the original certification or patenting, and the
Secretary of the Interior, on behalf of the United States, shall
demand payment from the company which has so disposed of
such lands of an amount equal to the government price of
similar lands; and in case of neglect or refusal of such- company to make payment as-hereafter specified, within ninety
days after the demapd shall have been made, the AttorneyGeneral shall cause suit or suits to be brought against such
company for the said amount."
I cannot believe that one whose claim to rights under the
laws of the United States is thus ignored by Congress in-what
was decided in .Fisbiev. TFkiney, vbi .pra,to be valid legislation, can avail himself of a want of authority in the officers
of the government to issue a patent, which isvalid on its face,
to protect himself against eviction from the patented land on
which he has entered as a trespasser, and without any color of
title.
XOHNSOT -v. CHRISTIANT.
"PEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COUeT OF THE UITEI

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF .A1T

STATES FOR

SAS.

o. 195. Submitted April 2,288.-Declded April 16,1iS8.-Decree vacated May 4,1888.

In a suit in equity, in a Circuit Court, to obtain a release of land from liability under a deed of trust, the plaintiff had a decree. On an appeal to
this court by.the defendant, no evidence of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on the ground of citizenship was found in the record. This
court reversed the decree with costs, and remanded the case for further
proceedings.
The decree reversing the decree of the ,Circuit Court In this- case on the
ground-that the record contained no evidence of the jurisdiction of that
court -was then yacated, because the record showed that the suit was
brought to restrain the enforcement of a judgment in ejectment recovered
in the same Cirdult Court.

BaL m EoUIT.
The prayer of the bill was that the complainants "may have the order and: decree of the court releas-

JOHNSON v. CHRISTIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

ing their said-lands from further responsibility under the said
original deed of trust from James F. Robinson to Lycurgus L.
L.Johnson, and the cloud upon their title to said lands and
premises by virtue of the sale and purchase by defendant of
their said lands and premises at the sale made by I. L. Worthington and Theodore Johnson, as executors, &c., as aforesaid,
be removed, and that the pretended deed made to the defendant at such sale for the lands of complaanants be decreed to be
delivered up and cancelled, and that in the meantime complainants may have a tempgrary restraining order, issuing out
of and under the seal of this court, enjoining and restraining
defendant -enforcing or attempting to enforce his judgment
in ejectment against said lands until the further order of the
court, and that at the final hearing hereof said mjunction be
mide perpetual ;" and for further relief.
The decree was in the complainants' favor, from which the
respondent appealed. The case is stated m the opinion.
-Mr.Attorny Genewa and

r. A.

.ReynolZs for appellant.

Xr. U. . Rose for app ellees.
Mm. Jusrmio BL&TOHFoD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, by George
Christian and Jerry Stuart, against Jdel Johnson, to obtain
a decree for the release of certain land from liability under a
deed of trust. The defendant appeared and answered, a replication was filed, and proofs were taken. The court, on finals
hearing, made a decree in favor of the plaintifft. The defendant has appealed to this court.
On looking into the record, we c - find no evidence of the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. The bill commences in this
way: "The complainants, George Christian and Jerry Stuart,
citizens of the county of Ohicot and State of Arkansas, would
respectfully represent,' etc. Joel Johnson is the sole defendant, but there is no allegation as to his citizenship, nor does
that appear anywhere in the record. Under these circuin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

stances, this. court must take notice for itself of the absence
of the averment of the necessary facts to show the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, and must reverse the decree, in accordance with -the ettled practice.
It is only necessary to refer to the case of Continental _Tns.
Co. v. Ihoade, 119 U. S. 23T, where it was said, citing numerous cases: "It was settled at a very early day that the facts
on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts rest must, in
some fprmn, appeak on the face of the record of all suits prosecuted before them;" and that "it is error for a court to proceed without its jurisdiction is shown."
It was also said in the same case, citing -Morgani.v. Gay, 19
Wall. 81, and Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 616, that, if the
party in regard to whom the necessary citizenship was not
shown actually possessed such citizenship, the record could
not be amended in- this court so as to show the fact, but that
the court below might, in its discretion, allow that to be done
when the case should get back there.
In accordance with these views,
The deoree of the Circuit Cou't is -eversed, witA costs, and
the case is 'emanded to that cou rtforjfirtherp
2oceedings.
21r. Rose thereupon, on the 28th of April, 1888, presented
and obtained leave to file the following petition, entitled in
the cause.
"The appellees beg leave to ask for a reconsideration of the
judgment herein, because it is based ow an obvious oversight.
"The opinion states that the object of the suit was 'to
obtain a decree for the release of certain land from liability
under a deed of trust.'
"But the object was to enjoin the execution of a judgment
in ejectment obtained by appellant in the court below against
the appellees.
"The bill stateg: 'That afterwards said defendant, [claiming] by vrt.ue of said sale and purchase, instituted his suit in
ejectment on the law side of the court, and your complainants,
not being admitted to interpose their equitable defence to the

JOHNSON v. CHRISTIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

same, he did at the term, 188-, obtain judgment in ejectment against them, and now seeks to oust them of the possession of said lands by writ of possession founded on said
judgment! Tr. 8.
"There is a prayer for temporary and permanent injunctions against the judgment at law. Tr. 4.
"The answer admits the allegations as to the judgment at
law Tr. 40.
"Of course in that case the judgment could only be enjoined
by the Federal Court, and the citizenship of the parties is of
no significance. Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450, and cases
cited; Stone v. Bishiop, 4 Clifford, 597; .Dunn v. Olarke, 8
Pet. 1; O'Brien County v. Brown, 1 Dillon, 588; &t. Luke's
HooitaZ.v. Bar lay, 3 Blatchford, 262; Rai7road Coomanies
v. Giar rZain, 6 Wall 48; Jones v. And'ews, 10 Wal. 327."
On the 14th of Nf-y, 1888,
ered the opinion of the court.

faE.TusTiO

BLATOiwORD

deliv-

In this case, on the 16th of April last, this court made a
decree reversing with. costs the decree of the Circuit Court
and remanding the case tb that court for further proceedings.
This was done upon the view that the record contained no
evidence of the jurisdiction of the Circuit .Court, arising out
of the citizenship of the parties; but the fact was overlooked
that the bill states that the defendant had obtained a judgment in ejectmenut in the same court, (the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of"Arkansas,) and was
seeking to oust the plamtiffs. from the possession of the land
involved, by .a writ of possession founded on the judgment.
The bill further sets forth.that the plaintiffs in tbhi suit, who
are the appellants, had not-been admitted to interpose in the
ejedtment suit an equitable defence to the same, which they
state with particularity in the bill in this suit, and which they
seek to avail themselves of herein. One of the prayers of the
bill is for a perpetual injunction restraining the defendant
from enforcing or attempting to enforce agaanst the land the
judgment in ejectment. The ansryer admits the recovery of
the judgment in the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

This is sufficient to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction of
the case, without any averment of the citizenship of the
parties; and not only is the present suit in equity merely an
incident of and ancillary to the ejectment suit, but no other
court than the one which-rendered the judgment m the ejectment'ziit could interfere with it or stay process in it, on the
grounds set forth in the bill
finneaot Co. v. St. Paul Co.,
2 Wall. 609, 633; R&2ppendorf v. ~Myde, 110 U. S. 276;
Paot, .2ailroad v. Xiwsoun Pacfo 1?ailway, 111 U. S. 505.
The decree made by this court o the 16th of AriZ laMt is
therefore 'vacaed,aad the case will 8tandfor hearing ol
the ftwrits at the next term of this court, i* i order on the'
docket.

UTTED STATES v. BAKER.
APPEAL EROM THE
2No. 1894.

COURT OF CLAIM.

Submitted April 2, 1

-.-Declded April 18,1888.

A person who was appointed a mldshipma in the navy in September, 1867;

and an ensign -n July, 1872, and as to whom the lowest grade having
graduated pay held by him since last entering the service was, under the
act of July 15,1870, c. 295, 16 Stat. 330, ยง 3, that of ensign, Is entitled to

be credited, under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 97, 22 Stat. 473, with the
time he so served as a midshipman, on the ground that service as a midshipman, at the naval academy, was service as an officer in the navy.

Tun case is stated in the opinion.
3fr. Attorney General, -M. Assistant Aforney General
Howard, and 2fr. _F P. Dewees for appellant.
NP. John Paul 7ones and .lr.

Poberl'B..Zinev for ap-

pellee.
M-a. Jus=a

BraTaiorFoD delivered

the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the 'nited States from a.judgment of
the Court of Claims, awarding to the claimant $836.71, on the
following facts:

