OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Syllabus.

the 1avy Department in a vessel employed, with authority of
law, in actiVe service in bays, inlet%roadsteads, or other arms
of the sea, under the general restrictions, regulations and requirements that are incident or peculiar to service on the high:
sea. It is of no consequence in this case that the New Hampshire was not, during the period in question in such condition
that she could be safely taken out to sea beyond the main land.
She was a training ship, anchored in Narragansett Bay during
the whole time covered by the claim of appellee, and was subject to such regulations as would have been enforced had she
been put in order and used for purposes of cruising, or as a
practice ship at sea. Within the meaning of the law, Symonds,
when performing his duties as executive offlcer of the 1New
Hampshire, was-at I sea?"
We are unable to find any ground of distinction between
the present case and that of Symonds. It results that the
claimant was entitled by law to pay for sea service. Thejudgment of the Court of Claims is accordingly

ST. LOUIS, ALTON AND TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD
OOM ATY v. OLEVEVLA.ND, COLuMBUS, CINCINITI,
AND INDIA- AJOLIS RAILWAY COf-

FANY.

APPEAL IMOM TEE CIEOUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF flKDIAIA.
To. 192. Argued Mareb 22, 1838.-Decided April 16, Ie.

The rule charging operating expenses of a railroad, debts due from It to
connecting lines growing out of an interchange bf business, debts due
for the occupation of leased lines, and, generally, debts created under
special circumstances which make an equity in favor of the unsecured
debtor, upon the gross income of the road before a fund arises fofthe
payment of mortgage iaterqst, is not applicable to a fund realized from
a sale of the road under foreclosure of a mortgage; and, as a general
rule, unsecured debts of the company cannot, in such case, take prece-

ST. LOUWS &c. RAItROAD v. CLEVELAND &c.R'Y. ..659
Statement of the Case.
dence over debts secured by prior and express liens, in the distribution
of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property.
The court holds on the proof n this case: (l)'that no gross earnings which
should have been applied to the payment of the rent due the appellant
were diverted to the payment of interest upon bonds of mortgage bondholders represented In this suit and interested in the distribution of the
fund; and (2) that the appellant has no equitable right, as against the

appellees, to priority of payment out of the fund.

THn decree appealed from in this case was rendered upon
an intervening petition of the St. Louis, Alton and Terre
Haute Railroad Company, fled October 30, 1882, in a suit
then pending in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana, wherein Hinman B. Hurlbut was complainant, and the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company defendant, the object of which suit was to foreclose the
second and third mortgages, in which Hurlbut was the surviving trustee, upon the railroad and other property of the
defendant. A decree of for.eclosure and sale had been rendered therein on"May 22, 1882, in pursuance of which the
mortgaged premises were-sold on July 28,1882, for the sum of
$1,396,000, subject to the outstanding first mortgage, and, at
the date of the filing of the intervening petition of the present
appellant, they had become by purchase the property of the
Indianapolis and St. Louis Railway Company. The proceeds
of the sale were under the control ot the court for purposes-of
distribution; and the matter had been referred to a master m
chancery to hear evidence in support of the claims of any
creditor claiming the right to share in that distribution, and
to make report thereon.
The petitibn,alleged, and it'so appeared, that by a decree
of the Circuit Court.of thie United States for the District of
Indiana., rendered July 26, 1882, in a certain suit in equity, in
which said petitioner was complainant and the said Indianapolis and St. Lows Railroad Company and others were defendants, it obtained a decree against said Indianapolis and St.
Louis Railroad Company for the payment of the sum of 8664,87.70, besides costs, which decree remained unsatisfied and
unrevmsed. This amount, it was claimed by the petitioner,
was a lien upon the proceeds of the sale of the Indianapolis and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

St. Louis Railroad, prior. in equi.y to that of the bondholders
secured by the-second and third mortgages.
The maebtedness for which this decree was rendered arose
under an agreement entered into between the petitioner and
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad.Company on September 11, 1867, whereby it was provided that the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad Company should manage, operate, and
carry on the 15ilsiness of that potion of petitioner's road known
as its principal or main line, exfending from Terre Haute, in
the State of Indiana, to RMst St. Louis, in the State of.Illinois,
a distance of 189 miles, aiid of the Alton branch thereof, extending from Alton, Junction, iu the State 4f Illinois, to Alton,
in said State, a distance of four miles, for the period of nnetynine years from the 1Ut day of Sune, 186,7; that said Indianapolis and St. Lois Railroad Cbmpany should pay annually
during said term to the petitioner thirty per cent of the gross
earnings of the said main line and Alton branch until such
gross earnings for the year should amount to $2,000,000, and
tweunty-five per cent of any excess over $2,000,000 until the
whole earnings for the year should amount to $3,000,000, and
twenty per cent of any excess over $3,000,000 of gross earnings for such year, and, further, that the said payment should
amount in each and every year to at least the sum of $450,000, which amount was agreed upon as a nmtum rental, to
be paid absolutely without reference to the percentage which
it formed of the gross earnings of any year, and without leaving or creating any claim or charge upon the earnings of any
future year. The petition farther showed that at the time of
the execution of the said operating contract, the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad was not built, and that the IndianapIis and St. Louis Railroad Company was organized and
created for the express purpose of furnishing to the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railroad Company and the Pittsburg, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railway
Company a through line to the Mississippi River by means of
its connection with the petitioner's road, the St. Louis, Alton
and Terre flaute Railroad, under the foregoing contract, and
that while the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company

ST. LOUIS &c. RA-IROAD v. CLEVELAXTD &c. R'Y. 661
Statemant of the Case.

nominally under that contract was the lessee of the petitioner's road, yet in fact it was leased and operated for the
benefit of the other two companies named, who furnished the
money to build the said Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad,
and who entered into a contract with the petitioner, guaranteeing performance of said agreement on the part of the
Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, and who -had
entered into a contract between themselves for the management and operation of the continuous line of railroad from
Indianapolis, in the State of Indiinh, to East St. Louis, in the
State of Illinois, including the Indiaiiapois and St. Louis Railroad and the petitioner's road. It was further alleged in' the
petition that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, which,
together with the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway'Company, were made defendants to the petitioh, had succeeded to the rights and obligations under these
several contracts -and arrangements of the Pittsburg, Fort
Wayne and Chicago Railway Company, and that the Pennsylvama Railroad Company and the Cleveland, Columbus,
Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Company were equal
owners of the capital stock of the Indianapolis and qt. Louis
Railroad Company, and that the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Company was the holder, substantially, of all the second mortgage bonds-of the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad Company,
The petition further alleged that.the eastern terminus of the
St. Louis, Alton and Terre :aute Railroad was the western
terminus of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad, the two
thus'forming a continuous line from Indianapolis to East
St. Louis on the Mississippi River, the road of the petitioner
being the only outlet for the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad west of Terre Haute; that a very large proportion of the
earnings of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company
were derived from business received by it from the petitioner's
leased line; and averred that the -earnings of the leased road
over anid above the airiount authorized to be- retained by'the
Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company for the purpose
-of operating-the same at all times had been and were the
property of the petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

The petitioner further claimed that the rental for the use
and occupation of said continuous line constituted a part of the

operating expenses of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad
Company; that the operating contract vas executed before
any of the bonds of the Indianapolis. and St. Louis Railroad
Company were issued and sold; that it 4w'as the duty of
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company to pay
all of its operating expenses, including the rental of the
petitioner's road, out of its earnings before it paid any
interest .on said bonds; but that the said Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad Conpany, instead of paying its operating
expenses as thus defined, diverted and appropriated its earnings
to improvements of its property in better equipment and new
construction, and to the payment of interest upon its bonds,
and neglected and refused to pay the rental accruing to thepetitioner for which it had obtained a decree, as above stated.
And the petition alleged that during the time the Indianapolig
and St. Louis Railroad' Company had been in possession of t.f
'petitioner's road the amount of such misappropriation and
diversion of funds, that should have been applied to the payment of operating expenses, amounted to the sum of $1,000,000.
The petition further showed that on May 1, 1878, the Indianapolis and St. ILoms Railroad Company made default in the
payment to petitioner of the rental then due under the terms
of said contract, and so continued to make default from and
including April 1, 1878, up to and including October 26, 1878,
during -whichtime it was in possession and use of the leased
road, receiving the profits and income thereof, and paid over
no part of the gross earnings of said road to the petitioner
whatever, but appropriated the whole of the same to its own
use, thirty per cent whereof during said time amounted to the
sum of $164,052.82, which, it was alleged, was appropriated by
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company to improvements, betterments, and new construction upon its own line of
Tailroad, in the purchase of rolling stock and equipment, and
in the payment of interest upon its bonds.
It was further alleged in the petition that when tlie Indianapolis and St. Louis Railhoad Company took possession of the

ST. LOUIS ft. RAILROAD v. CLEVELAIND &a. I'Y. 663
Argument for Appellant.

leased road in 1867 it received from the petitioner supplies of
the value of $91,860.05, which, by the terms of the lease, the
lessee contracted and agreed to return or account for to the
lessor at the termination of the lease, that said supplies had
long since been consumed by the lessee; that by the terms of
the decree and sale in the principal- cause the lease had been
assigned and transferred to the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Railroad Company, and it-was claimed that said amount was
a charge upon the proceeds of the sale of the leased road in
the possession of the court for distribution,
The petition therefore prayed for a decree awarding priority
in payment in its favor out. of the proceeds of the sale of the
two sums of $661,874.70 and $91,860.05.
To this petition answers were fied by the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Company, and by
,he Pennsylvania Railroad Company, m which the allegations
of the petition in regard to the diversion of the earnings of the
St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute 'R ilroad Company to the
purposes of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad were
denied, as well as the general equity set up by the petitioner.
, On Tune 27, 1881, the cause having been fully heard upon
the petition, and the answers and proofs, a final decree -was
rendered awarding to the petitioner an amount found due to
it for rental accrued while the road was in the possession of
the receiver appointed under the .fore6losure proceedings, and
directing payment thereof; but so far as the petition sought
to establish a claim for rental prior to the date when the
receiver took possession of the property, as against the proceeds arising from its sale, and so far as it sought to recover
the value of the supplies turned over to the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad Company in 1867, at the time of the exeoution of the lease, the petition was dismissed. It was from that
decree that this appeal .was prosecuted.
.Mr. John Mf. Buter, with whom was Mr. Jos A E.
.3foDonalM bn the brief, for appellants.
I. The St. Lois, Alton, and Terre-Haute Railroad Company
is entitled to payment of the amount equitably due for the use

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Argument for Appeiant.

of its railroad and franchises by the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Railroad Company., as upon guantuz memuit, regardless of the
lease of September 11, 1867. Thomas v. Brownville &c. .ailroad, 109 U. S. 522, 526; Gardner v. Butler, 30 Nf. T. Eq.
(3 Stewart), '702, 724; lT'ardell v. U ion Pacfic Railroad,4
Dillon, 330, 339; . C. on appeal, 103 V. S. 651, 656; Pennsylvania. Co. v. St. Iouts, A lton & Terre Haute Railroad,118
U.-S. 290, 309, 318.
II. The amounf of compensation for the use of the railroad
and franchises of the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad
Company fixed by the lease of September 11, 186'T, to wit:
$450,000. per annum, in monthly payments of $37,500, is no
more than a just and equitable compensation and should be

allowed, a§ upon quantum me'tuit, regardless of the lease.
lIT. The St. Lous, Alton and Terre Hau'te Railroad Company is entitled to payment, out of the proceeds of the sale of
the railroad and franchises of the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Railroad Company, of the full amount of the $664,874.70 decreed due to it from the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad
Company by the decree of fuly 6, 1882, together with interest thereon from date of said decree, before any distribution
of said proceeds of sale is made upon the second and third
mortgage bonds, m preference to payment upon- said second
and third mortgage bonds.
.First.Because the amount justly due for the use by the

Indianapolis and St. Lous Raikoa

Company of the railroad

and franclses of the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company is a parC of the operating expenses of the
Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company. Fosdick v.
Schal, 99 U. S. 235, 252; Union Pacijgc Railroadv. United
States, 99 U. S. 402, 492; Union Trust Co. v. Walker, 107
U. S. 596, Union Trust Co. v. Soutker, 107 U. S. 591, 595;
.Aitenberger v. Logans~pcrt Railway, 106 U. S. 286, 313.; Sagc
v. CentralRailroadCo., 99 U. s: 334,336; Bunham v. Bowen,
111 U. S. 76. These authorities clearly dedide the following
points:
1. That all earnings are applicable, first, to operating ex-

ST. LOUIS &-o. RA ILROAD v. CLEVELAND &c. )%'Y. 665
Argument for Appellant.

penses until they are fully paid, and that there are no net earnings applicable to bond interest or improvement of the mortgaged estate while operating expenses remain unpaid.
2. That payment for the use of rented tracko is an operating
expense, the same as payment for the use of rented cars, and
payment for fuel, supplies and services of operatives.
3. That operating expenses incurred m keeping a.railroad a
"going concern, ' or in any other way tending to preserve the
value of the mortgaged estate, are entitled to payment out of
proceeds of sale in preference to mortgage bonds, even although
the gross earnmgs are insufficient to pay all the operating
expenses.
Second. The amount due to the St. ILouis, Alton and Terre
Haute Railroad Company for the use of its railroad, equipment and franchises by the Indianapolis and St. :Loms Railroad Company should be paid out of the proceeds of sale in
preference to the mortgage bonds, because it is a debt due to
a connecting line. .iltenberger v. Logan ort IRailway, abovNe
cited; UTion Trust Co. v. Souther, above cited, Burnhanmv.
Bowen, above cited; UTnio Trust Co. v. Illinois .idlanu,
Co., 117 U. S. 4341, 458.
Thi&d. The amount equitably due to the St. Louis, Alton
and Terre Haute Railroad Company for the use of its railroad,
equipment and franchises by the Indianapolis and 'St. Louis
Railroad Company ought to be 'paid out of the proceeds of
sale in preference to payment of the mortgage bonds, because
gross earnings, out of which this debt ought to have been
paid, hbave been diverted to payment of bond interest, and to
payment for new construction and improvements to the railroad of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company.
Fosdick v. Schail, 99 U..S. 255; Miltenberger v. Zogan,!o t
Railway, 106 U. S. 311; Union Trust Co. v Tllinos .Jidland
Co, 117 U. S. 457, Burnham v. Bowen., 111 U. S. -780; -Pennsylvania Co. v. &t. Louis, Alton c. BZailroad,118 U. S. 290,
317, 818. If the law now firmly established by these decisions
is to-remain the T'w, these diverted gross earnings -must be
restored out of the proceeds of the sale, so far as may be necessary to fully pay the debts that ought.to have been paid out

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appelant.

of the gross earnings so diverted. The St. Louis, Alton and
Terre Haute RailroEd Company asks payment out of proceeds
of sale of the debt decreed due it by the decree of July 26,
1882, for the use of its rairoad and equipment by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company.
1. Because this debt is an operating expense of the Indianapolis and St. Lows :Railroad Company, payable out of the
gross earnings of the entire line from Indianapolis to St. Louis,
-the said gross earnings being sufficient to pay all operating
expenses, including this debt as an operating expense.
2. Because this debt is a debt due to a connecting line,
and, in common with all other dues to connecting lines, is an
operating expense of the Indianapolis- aild St. Louis Railroad
Company.
3. Because gross earnings received by tho Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad Company have been by it diverted to the
benefit of its bondholders to such alnounts as would have been
*far more than sufficient to have paid this debt.
IV. The Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati & IndianapolisRailway Co.; in .claiming the application of all the remaimng
proceeds of sale to-the payment of the second and third mortgage bonds in preference to the payment of the debt due to
the St. Louis, Alton &-Terre Haute Railroad Co. for the use
of its railroad and equipment, does not stand before a court
of equity in the position of an ordinary bondholder. The
peculiar relations existing between the Cleveland, Columbus
&o. Railroad Co. and the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad
Co. greatly strengthened the equity in favor of the St. Louis;
Alton & Terre Haute Railroad Co. in its claim for preference
in payment over the second and third mortgage bonds. Thomas
v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71, 86.
V. The St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad Co. is
entitled to payment of $164,052.82, together with interest
thereon from October 26, 1878, -the same being part of the
aggregate amount decreed. due by the decree of Suly 26, 1882,
-out of the proceeds of sale Pf the railroad and property of
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, because
the said $16-1,052.82, and interest thereon, ss trustfund money

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILROAD v. CLEVELAND &c. R'Y.

66?

Opinion of the Court.

belonging to the St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad
Co., collected, withheld and appropriated to its own use and
benefit by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company
As against the Indianapolis and St. Loui& Railroad Company the decree of July 26, 1882, stands affirmed and remains
in full force. As between the St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute
Railroad Company and the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company the lease of September 11, 186, stands as a
valid contract. -Penn. Co. v. St. Zouis, Alton do. 1?ailroad,
118 U. S. 318.
That rents definitely ascertained and specifically reserved
by lease never become the property of the lessee, but vest
direc.tly in the lessor, and are simply held in trust by the
lessee for the lessor, seems to be a well-established principle
in law. .MIVoulton, v. Ro~nson, 7 'Foster N. H .) 551; Hath
v. -art, 40 NT. H. 91; .Danids v. Brown, 31 I. H. 454; S. .
69 Am. Dec. 505; rart v. Baher, 29 Ind. 200-; Lindky v.
Ee7ty, 42 Ind. 291; .Par er v. Garrison, 61 Ill. 250, 254.
Mr Stevenson Bur7 and .M'. John T. -Dyefor appellees.
MRn.

JusTioc MTrnmws delivered the opimon of the court.

At the time of the execution of the lease in 1867 of"the
St. Louis, Alton and Terre Hautq Railroad to the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad Company, the railroad of the latter
company was not in existence. It was subsequently constructed in. order to form the connection which would give
to the parties in interest the desired through line from Indianapolis to St. Louis.' The capital stock of the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad Company -was owned substantihlly by the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the Cleveland, Columbu ,
Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Company in equal parts.
A portion of the funds necessary to construct and equip the
road was represented by bonds secured by inortgages. Of
these there were three; the first mortgage was for $2,000,000,
the second for $1,000,000, and the third for $500,000. The
first mortgage bonds,,pior to the foreclosure and sale, had

668

-

OCTOBER TERMJf,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

been sold in the market, and were outstanding. The sale was
made subject to the continued incumbrance of that mortgage,
and of the bonds secured thereby. The holders of these bonds
have, therefore, no mterest m this controversy.
The second and third mortgpge bonds were onginally taken
to account by the two compameg interested in the construction of the road, but, prior to the foreclosure and sale, had
become substantially the property of the Cleveland, Columbus,
Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Company, that company
having acquired the entire interest of the Pennsylvania Rgilroad Company. As the owner of these bonds, the Qleveland,
-Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapois Railway Company
claims to be.entitled to the whole amount of the proceeds of
the. sale of the yoad under the foreclosure, and is the only
party in interest adverse to the petitioner.
The default in the payment of interest on the second and
third mortgages dates from January 1, 18-78. The decree of
foreclosure finds the amount of interest in arrears on May 2,
1882, on the second mortgage bonds, to be $291,-745.97, and
the aggregate sum due on account of said mortgage, principal
and interest, to be 81,197,745.97, with interest from May 2,
1882. The amount found due by the same decree, on account
of the bonds secured by the third mortgage, including interest
from January 1, 1878, is $699,161.,76. The whole amount
found due by the decree, including both sums, is $1,896,910.7,
which is more than the amount of the proceeds of the sale of
the road, which were $1,396,000.
Upon the bill of Hinman B. Hurlbut, as trustee, for the
foreclosure and sale of the Indianapdlis and St. Louis Railroad
property, a receiver was appointed, and it was ordered that
the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company
should be entitled to require the payment of thirty per cent of
the gross earning of its railroad to said lessor, according to the
order of the court theretofore made and stillm force in the suit
of the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company
against the Indianapolis and St.-Louis Railroad Company, with
the terms of which order the receiver was directed to comply.
The order appointing the receiver also expressly reserved to

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILROAD v. CLEVELAND &c. R'Y.

669

Opinon of the Court.

the court the right and power to make such orders and decrees
touching the payment of the debts of the Indianapolis and St.
Louis Railroad Company incurred m the management and
operation of its railroad prior to .the appointment of the receiver, as might be equitable and just. The decree of foreclosure and sale also contained a clause reserving to the court
the right, by subsequent order or orders, to distribute the proceeds of the sale of the railroad and property connected therewith, and to make such further order and decree in regard to
the distribution of the proceeds of sale as might to the court
seem equitable and just; and a reference was made to the
master to hear evidence in support of all claims or indebtedness
in behalf of any creditor of the defendant company, whether
secured or not.
The Indianapolis and St. Lois Railroad Company, from the
date of the lease in 1861, continued to pay to the St. Louis,
Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company the rental reserved
by the terms of the lease, viz., thirty per-cent of the gross earnings of the leased road in each year until April 1, 1878. Prior
to that time there had been no default in respect to the payment of the full amount of the rental as it accrued; the lessee
ceased paying rent from that date.
On October 25, 1878, the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute
Railroad Company filed its bill in equity in the Circuit Court
of the United States.for Indiana against the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad Company, to which also the Cleveland,
Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Company.and
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company were made parties defendant. The ob3ect of that bill was specifically to enforce
the performance of the covenants contained in the'lease on the
part of the lessee and of the other defendants as guarantors.
It was in that suit that the order was made November 30, 1878,
requiring the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company to
pay into court, on account of the rental due the lessor, monthly,
on the 15th day of each month, thirty per centum of the gross
earnings for the preceding montd. of the leased rbad, calculating the gross earnings which had accruedsmce October 26,
1878.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinon of the Court.

The final decree of the Circuit Court in that cause declared
'that the lease and operating contract of September 11, 1 867,
was a valid obligation upon all the parties thereto, and established the amount of the indebtedness of the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad Company on account.of the minimum rent reserved by said lease to.July 1, 1882, at the sum of $541,358.23
principal, and $123,516.47 interest, making in all the sum
of $664,87'T0. It also found that thirty per cent of the gross
earnings of the leased line collected and received by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, and withheld by it
from April 1, 1878, until October 26, 1878, amounted to
$161,059.82, which was part of said aggregate amount found
due. The decree further declared the liability of the Pennsylvanui.Railroad Company and of the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis. Railway Company as guarantors for
their proportion o4f the said sum, and awaided payment accordingly.

--

From this decree appeals wexe taken and prosecuted to this
court by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the Cleveland; Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis -RailwayCompany,
the judgment.in which was rendered at October Term, 1885,
and is reported m 118 U, -S. 290. It was there decided that
the lease of 1867 was void for want of power on the part of
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company to enter into
it, and that the guaranty of performance executed by the other
defendant companies by reason thereof -was also void., The
decree- of the Circuit Couft was accordingly reversed, andL the
cause remanded with dir6ctions to dismiss the -bill as to the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company anad the Cleveland, Columbus,
Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Compauy; but that part
of the decree which required the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Railroad Company to pay the amount found due as rent was
left standing, as no appeal from it had been prosecuted by the
Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company. Pending that
litigation, the intervening petition 6f the St. Louis, Alton and
Terre Haute Railroad Company, now under consideration, -was
filed in the foreclosure suit, n which Hurlbut, as trustee, was
complainant.

ST. IEOUIS &c. RAILROAD v. CLEVELAND &c. R'Y. 671
Opimon of the Court.

The propositions on which counsel for the appellant bases
its right to the relief prayed for m the intervening petition, and
which was denied by the decree, are stated by it as follows:
First. That the petitioner is in equity entitled to just and
fair compensation for the use of its railroad, equipment, and
franchises as upon quantum meruit, even if the lease is entirely disregarded.
Second. That the minimum rent of $450,000 per annum,
in monthly payments of $37,500, is no more than just, fair,
and equitable compensation for the use of the leased line upon
.uantum meruit.
Third. That the petitioner is entitled to payment of the
$66 ,'74.-70 decreed due it by the decree of July.20, 1882, with
interest thereon, out of the proceeds of the sale of the railroad
and property of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company in preference to payment of the mortgage bonds:
1. Because it is an unpaid operating expense of tke Indianapolis and St. _ouis Railroad Company, there having been
gross earnings abundiant to pay all operating expenses, including rent of the leased line.
2. Because it is a debt justly due to the petitioner a8 a
connecting line.
3. Because gross earnings lawfully applicable only to operating expenses, until every operating expense has been fully
paid, have been diverted to the benefit of the bondholders of
the petitioner in payment of bond interest, and in adding increased value to the mortgaged property by additions and improvements, to an amount sufficient to have paid the debt now
due to the petitioner many times.
Fourth. That the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and
Indianapolis Railway Company, in resisting payment of the
debt due the petitioner in preference to the payment of the
second and third mortgage bonds, does not stand before a
court of equity in the position of simply an ordinary bondholder; and that the p.iculiar relations existing between the
Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway
Company and the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company,. as disclosed by this litigation, greatly strengthen the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

equity in favor of the petitioner in its claim for preference in
payment over the mortgage bonds.
Fifth. That the petitioner is entitled to payment of $164,052.82, with interest thereon from October 26, 1882, out of the
proceeds of sale, because that amount is thirty per cent of the
gross earnings earned on the track of the leased line from
April 1, 1878, to October 26, 1878, and u trust money 'eserved
by the lease belonging to the petitioner, collected, withheld,
and wrongfully appropriated to its own use and benefit by the
Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company
It nay be admitted that the petitioner is entitled in equity
to a just and fair compensation for the use of its railroad by
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, without
regard to the lease, as between it and the lessee, and also that
the minimum rent of $450,000 per annum, in monthly payments
of $37,500, is no more than that just and fair compensation
that the lessor company would be entitled to receive for the
use of its road upon a quantr mernuit. As between the petitioner and the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company,
the amount of the indebtedness on that account is conclusively
established by the decree of July 26, 188, -which, as between
these parties, stands unreversed and unsatisfied.
A different 'question, however, arises as between the petitioner and the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Company, as the owner of the mortgage bonds,
for the satisfaction of which the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Railroad has been sold. It remains, as btween these parties,
for the -petitioner to establish that the debt to it of the Indianapolis and St. Lous.-Railroad Company, on account of this use
and occupation, is a prior lien and charge upon the proceeds
of the sale of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad, entitled
to preference over that of the secotid and third mnortgages.
Among the reasons urged in support of this preference are
these, -because the arrearage is an unpaid operating expense
of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company; because
it is a debt due to the petitioner as a connecting line, and because it consists of a portion of the gross earnings earned on
the track of the lkased line received by the Indianapolis and

ST. LOUIS &c. .RAILROAD v. CLEVELAND &c. R'Y.

67a

Opmfon of the Court.

St. Louis Railroad Company, and held by it as trust money in
equity belonging to the petitioner. This last reason, as formally
presented, is limited to S164,052.82, being thirty per cent of
the gross earnings earned on the track of the leased line from
April 1, 1878, to October 26, 1878, but is applicable as well to
all other amounts received by the lessee of the gross earnings
of the leased line which have not been accounted for.
But none of these reasons, standing by themselves, are sufficient. It is undoubtedly true that operating expenses, debts
due to connecting lines gTowing out of an interchange of business, and debts due for the use and occupation of leased lines
are chargeable upon gross income before that net revenue
arises which constitutes the fund applicable to the payment of
the interest on the mortgage bonds. But here there is no
question in respect to current income. The fund in court is
the proceeds of the sale of the property, ,and represents its
cowlu.; and it cannot be claimed that ordinarily the unsecured debts of an insolvent railroad company can take precedence in the distribution of the proceeds of a sale of the
property itself over those creditors who are secured by prior
and express liens.
There are cases, it is true, where, owing to special circumstances, an equity arises in favor of certain classes of creditors
of an insolvent railroad corporation, otherwise unsecured, by
which they are entitled to outrank in priority of payment,
even upon a distribution of the proceeds of a sale of the body
of the property, those who are secured by prior mortgage
liens. Illustrations and instances of these cases are to be
found in Fosdick v. SchaZl, 99 U. S. 235, .Miltenberger v. Lopaos~port
Railway Co., 106 U. S. 286 ; Union, Ttst Co. v.
Souther, 107 U. S. 591; Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. '776;
7 ailway Co., 117 U. S.
Union,Trust Co. v. Minois .idland
431, -Dow v. .AXempki and Zittle Bock Railroad Co., 124 U.
S. 652; Sage v. .emphis and little Rock Railroad Co., ante,
361; and Urnhio Trust Co. v. Xwov-ison, ante, 591. The'
rule governing in all these cases was stated by Chief Justice 'Waite in Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776, 783, as follows- "That if current earnings are used for the benefit of.
VOL. CxxV-43

OCTOBER TERIM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgage creditors before current expenses are paid9.the mort.
gage security is chargeable in equity with the restoration of
the fund which has been thus improperly applied to their
use. ' There has been'no departure from this rule in any of
the oases cited; it has been adhered to and reaffirmed in them
all.
Admitting, therefore, that the reasonable rent of the leased
line accruing to the petitioner was a proper charge upon the
gross income of the Indianapolis and St. Louis :Railroad Company, as a part of its current operating expenses, before any
net income could arise -applicable to the payment of the in
terest on, the mortgage bonds, it must still be shown. to entitle
the petitioner to the relief *prayedfor, that the arrearage due
on account thereof hag arisen by the diyersion and- misappropriation of the fund that -ought to have been applied to its
payment to the use and benefit of the mortgage bondholders.
Counsel for the petitioner undertake to do this, and insist that
-uponthe proofs in this case it satisfactorily appears that such
a diversion and misappropriation have taken place to its injury and to the advantage and benefit of the bondholders
claiming the fund in court for distribution.
This diversion and misappropriation are alleged to have occurred in two ways: 1st, by the payment of the interest on
the mortgage bonds out of earnings which should have been
paid to the petitioner on account of rent due to it as an operating expense; and, 2d, by the application of earnings to permanent improvements and betterments of the Indiaiapolis
and St. Louis Railroad property, which have increased the
value of that property as a mortgage security, an increased
value which, it may be very fairly presumed, is represented in
the proceeds of its sale.
The fact in issue, it is claimed, is shown by an exhibit,
which in tabular form contains a statement of the earnings,
expenses, rental, and interest on bonds of the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad.Company, including the leasediline as one
of its divisions, from the date of the commencement of operations under the lease in 1867 to Mfay 23, 1882. That statement shows : Gross earnings, $26,868,252.81; operating ex-

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILROAD v. CLEVELAND &c. R'Y. 675
Opinion of the Court.

penses, including taxes, $19,417,078.26; leaving as net earnings, $7,451,1(4.05. During the same period the amount of
rental paid for the leased lines was $6,461;869.19, and during
the same period interest paid on bonds, $2,234,396.62-, showing
as the result of the operations for the entire period a deficit of
$1,248,091.76. It thus appears"that the payments made on
account of the various items mentioned exceed by that sun
the entire gross earnings received by the.lessee from its own
and the leased line. But inasmuch as during this period
$2,234396.62 out of the gross earnings were paid on accound
of interest on bonds, being 8986,304.86 more than the entire
apparent deficit, the inference is drawn that the deficit has
arisen in consequence of the payment of interest on bonds,
more than sufficient, if they bad been so appropriated, to have
paid the entire rental including the arrearage iiow due. This,
it is claimed, establishes the fact to be proved, that gToss earnings, -winch should have been applied to the payment of .rent,
have been diverted by the lessee to the payment of interest on

bonds.
This statement, however, is deceptive. From the beginning
of operations under the lease in 1867 until April 1, 1878, the
Indianapolis and St. Louis :Railroad Company paid in full, as it
accrued, the whole amount of the rental called for by the lease.
During that period, the lessee, being in no Zlefault at any time
on account of rent, had a legal right to appropriate any surplus of its gross earmngs to the. payment of interest on bonds,
or for the improvement and additional equipment of its road.
It was not bound to accumulate, out of the surplus of gross
earnings, prior to 1878, a fund to meet possible contingencies
in respect to rent that might arise after that date. The petitioner, therefore, has no right to complain of any appropriation of the earnings of the leased line during the period in
which it received the full amount due to it.

If now -weturn to a statement of a similar account, beginning in 1878, when the default in the payment of interest
began, to the close of the period, Mfay 23, 1882, we are furrushed with the following figures: Gross earnings, $7,443,894.43 ; operating expenses, including taxes, $6,253,819.53; leav-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ing net earnings, $1,190,074.90. During the same period there
was paid on account of rent of the leased line to the petitioner
$1,450,336.67, making a deficit of $200,261.77, without reference to anything paid during that period on account of interest on bonds. That is to say, during the period in which the
arrearage on account of rent accrued, there was paid out on
account of rent $260,261.77 in excess of the entire earnings of
the whole line, after deducting the ordinary expenses of operation. During the same period there was paid -on account of
interest on bonds the sum of $490,105 making the entire deficit during that period $750,366.,77. But it is admitted that
during the same period the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati
and Indianapolis Railway. Company and the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company made advances in cash to the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad Company to the amount of $510,30621, a sum greater than the whole amount of the interest paid
during the same period on bonds. Even if we should treat the
payment on account of interest on bonds during that period of
$490,105 as taken from the earnings, which should have been
applied to the payment cf the rental, it is to be considered
that the paynent was made on account of the interest "accruing during that period on the first mortgage bonds alone. No
interest whatever was paid from January -1, 1878, on account
of the interest accruing on the second and third mortgage
bonds. It cannot be said that the application of earnings to
the payment of the interest on the first mortgage bonds is
chargeable to the holtders of the second and third mortoage
bonds, the latter-alone are interested in the fund for distribution. That fund, in the sense of the rulepought to 15e applied,
cainnot be said to have been benefited by the payment to
other bondholders from the gross earnings applicable to the
payment of the rent. The equity of the petitioner, if in fact it
exists, is against the holders of the first mortgage bonds, who
have actually received the money to which it claims to be
equitably entitled.
It is further insisted, however, on behalf of the petitioner,
that; there has been a diversion of earnings to its detriment
by payments made for additions and improvements to the

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILROAD v. CLEVELAND &c. R'Y. 67'
Opin!on of the Cour.

mortgaged property during the years 1818, 1879, 1880, and
1881, amounting to 8256,501.05; but if we exclude from the
account the payments made during that perioa on account of
interest on the first mortgage bonds, as should be done, the
amount of these betterments of the mortgage security is much
more than made up by the cash advances during that period
made by the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Company and the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, which, as we have stated, were $510,306.24.
A special equity is urged as to the unpaid rent of the leased
line for the seven months from April I to November -1, 1878,
during which nothing whatever was paid on that account,
amounting, as found by the decree of -July 26, 1882, to
$164 952.82, on the ground that the gross earnings of the
leased line during that period were received by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company clothed with a trust,
and were diverted -rom their legitimate application to the
benefit of the bondholders. As we have ,-J-ady stated, no
equity can arise upon the alleged breach or trust unless the
second and third mortgage bondholders participated in it, or
hive been benefited by it. The alleged diversion of this
a'mbunt is covered by the statements that have been already
adverted to. It consists in payments on account of interest
on the -first mortgage bonds, which must be excluded from
the account for reasons already given, and payments made on
account of new construction, additions, new equipment, and
improvements, more than covered by the cash advances made
by the owners of the second and third mortgage bonds. An
effort is made in the argument to swell the amount chargeable to permanent improvements by pointing out that from
January 1, 1881, to M[ay 23, 1882, more than all of the gross
earnings of the entire line were charged up to the operating
expense account, witfout counting anything for rent of the
leased line as an operating expense. The witness who tabulated the schedules in which these statements appear stated
that, during the months covered by these charges for excessive
operating expenses, large improvements Were being made to
the property, but no details were brought out on the exaun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

nation, and the witness qualified his statement by saying that
he did not mean to be understood that the improvements were
more than such as were necessary to the proper repair and
restoration of the property We cannot assume by way of
conjecture or mere inference that the items referred to were
not properly charged as operating expenses. On this branch
of the case we conclude that the petitioner has failed to establish any diversion and misappropriation of the earnings applicable to the payment of rent of the leased line to entitle him.
in equity to charge the Tund in court for the payment of the
arrearage in preference to the second and third mortgage
bondholders.
Independently of the equity growing out of the alleged
diversion and misappropriation of earnings properly applicable to the payment of rent, it is claimed on behalf of the
petitioner that it has an equitable right to a priority of payment out of the fund in court growing out of the peculiar
relations existing between it and the Cleveland, Columbus,
Cincinnati and Indianapolis- Railway Company and the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, as disclosed in
the transactions out of which this litigation has grown. It is
alleged, in substance, that the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway Coinipany is the real debtor for
this arrearage of rent; that it with the Pennsylvania Railroad
dompany were in fact the owners of the Indianapolis and St.
Louis Railroad,. which was built with their money, and for
the promotion of their interests, in order, by means of the
lease of the petitioner's road, to create a through line from
Indianapolis to St. Louis for business between the East and
the AWest, the establishment and operation of which have contributed largely to swell the business upon their own previously existing lines. Having thus induced the petitioner to
enter into the arrangement for their benefit, and having
secured and actually, enjoyed its advantages and profits, the
argument now is that good faith, by an equitable estoppel,
forbids the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis
Railway Company from now 'asserting a claim which will
deprive the petitioner of the compensation agreed to be paid

ST. LOUIS &c. IAILROAD v. CLEVELAND &c. R'Y. 679
Opinion of the Court.

for the use of its road. But this is the very equity which the
petitioner sought to enforce by its bill filed October 25, 1878,
in which it sought to obtain a decree against its lessee and the
guarantors in the lease for the specific performance of the
covenant to pay the reserved ren. In that bill reliance was
placed, it is true, upon the express covenants which were held
finally to be void; but every equitable ground upon-the existing facts was invoked in support of the validity of the covenants. - The facts supposed to constitute the equity now
insisted on were urged then as sufficient to support the obligation based upon the terms of the operating. conract and
lease. If this equity was not sufficient then to sustain an express prbmisa to pay the Tent, it certainly is not strong enough
now to justify a decree for its payment standing by itself. To
enforce the present claim of the petitioner on this ground
would be simply to reinstate as 'valid the covenants of the
lease and guaranty which between the same parties have
already been finally decided to be void.
It has already been stated that no default occurred in the

.payment of the rent by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company until April 1, 1878. After that default occurred, no step was taken by the petitioner by any legal proceeding to forfeit the lease and re-possess itself of its road.
-Nothing was done until the filing of its bill, October 25, 1878,
to compel the specific performance of the covenants of the
lease and operating contract, when the order was made requiring payment to it, pending the proceeaing, of thirty per cent
of the gross earnings of its road; and an analysis of the tabular statements, already referred to as in evidence, shows that
the arrearage of rent, for which payment is now sought, can
be recovered only bpon the basis of the mmnunum rental fixed
by the lease by the enforcement of the covenants of guaranty
declared to be void.
The mmnum fixed Dy the lease for the rental of the leased
line from:June 1, 1867, to May 23, 1882, at $450,000 per annum, is 86,750,000, thirty per cent of the gross earnings of
the leased road for-the same period is $6,031,465.61, being less
than the guaranteed rent by $718,534.39. In point of fact, the

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Syllabus.

condition of the petitioner, upon the facts as they now stand,
without payment of any arrearage of rent, is demonstrably
bett~r than it would have been if no lease had been made, and
the Toad had been operated by its own proprietors, independently but as part of a connected through line. This is shown
by the fact that the lessor received as rent during the whole
period of the lease $6,464,869.19, while the total net earnings
of the leased property during the same period are shown to
have been only $5,290,783.02. Presumably these net earnings
are as large as they would have been if the road had been operated by its own proprietor. The volume of its business, and
the corresponding amount of its gross receipts, were certainly
swelled beyond what they would have been if the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad had not been built, or had not been
operated in connection with it. It follows, therefore, upon the
basis of the flgures showh in the proofs, that the lessor has
actually received, since the lease. was made, in excess of the
entire net earnings of the leased property, $1,174,086.17. Indeed, it is further shown, that during the period commencing
with 1878, when the default began, the ifet earningsof the
entire line, including the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad,
as well as the leased road, amounted to $1,190,074.90, and that
during the same period the lessor received on account of rent
$1,450,336.67, being m excess of the net earnings of the two
roads.
Upon these facts, we are unable to discover any equitable
ground for the ielief prayed for by the petitioner.
The deoree of the Girouit Court is, therefore, armed. "

DOW v. BEIDELIA.
F"iMOR TO THE SUPiREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKASAS.
No. i001. Submitted November 21, i887.-Decided .prii 16, 1888.

A.statute of a State, Axing at tbree cents a mile the manhnum fare mat any
railroad corporation may take for carrying a passenger within the State,
is not, as applied. to a corporation reorganized by the purchasers at the

