OCTOBER TERM , 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

DEWOLF v. HAYS.
APPEAL 3MOM THE CIRCUIT COURT 4

THM UN=

STATES FOR

THE DISTEI r OF OALIFORNIA.
No. 868.

Submitted January 6,1888. -Deelded

April 9,1888.

Upon the proofs in this ease the court finds that the settlement which the
bill seeks to set aside was a prudent and fair one, made deliberately and
under advice of competent counsel, and that, independently of any question of laches, no ground is shown for maintaining this suit.

TEm original suit was a bill in equity, filed :May t, 1884, by
Florence W. Hays, the widow of John J. Hays, against Frank
E feWolf and wife and Horace M4. Barnes, to set- aside a
deed of- redi' estate from DeWolf and wife to Barnes, and to
compel a conveyance to the plaintiff. Upon a hearing on
pleadings and proofs, the Circuit Court. entered a decree for
the plaintiff, and the defendants appealed to this court. The
case is stated m the opimon.
-Mr. Benjam * F Tur.ton and _Nr1. Louis T. Bajgin for
appellants, cited on the question of laches, and th presumption of acquiescence after considerable delay: lToUZenIs7 v.
Reiier, 115 UT. S. 96; S&dhivan, v. Portland d .ailroad, 94
U. S."806, 812; Beau~u v. BeazuMe, 23 How. 190, Starn8
v. Page, T How. 819; Motore v. Greene, 19 How. 69; -fMar'
v. lf-itmore, 21 Wall. 178, 185; Godden v. 1.hwrn44 99 U. S.
201, Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87, 95, TFood v. Carpenter,
101 U. S. 185; ansda7e v. Smith, 106 U. S. 391 ; Faher v.
Boodgy, I Curtis, 206, 219; Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481;
Ehmendorf v. Taqflr, 10 Wheat. 152; Piattv. Trattier, 9 Pet.
405,416; Skans v. Paige,1 Story, 204, 217; Magner v Baird,
I How. 234; HIoug v. Richardson, 3 Story, 659.
.P W
"
aZ7ett PMips, and
2f3.Ben. .oryan for appellee, cited to the same points: Allone v. Jewell, 94 U: S. 506,
512; ,ne rance Co. v. Eldrzdge, 102 U. S. 545, 5417.

DEWOLF v. HAYS.
Ouinon of the Court.
Mi. .TusTioE GRA-

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question upon which the decision of this case turns is
one of fact ; and upon full consideration of the evidence, we
are unable to adopt the conclusion of the Circuit Court.
Hays and wife and DeWolf and wife, connections by marriage and intimate friends, took up their residence in Califorma in 1871. Hays was in ill health, and DeWolf had the
confidence of Hays and wife and often transacted business for
them. In 1872, DeWolf and wife owned a ranch of 4160
acres in Fresno County, Califormna and at his suggestion Mrs.
Hays purchased an undivided half of the tract for the price of
$23,425, part of which she paid out of her separate funds, and
for the rest of which she gave them her pronissory note for
$10,135, secured by mortgage of the land.
It is alleged in the bill, and shown by the evidence, that
afterwards DeWolf and wife, without consideration, assigned
the note and mor.gage to one Haggin,.and he commenced an
action of foreclosure, which was dismissed upon the plaintiff's
executing and delivering to Haggin a deed of the land; that
in 1877 the same was conveyed, without consideration, by
Raggin to one Dinmock, and by him to :Nrs. DeWolf; and
that in all these transactions Haggin, as well as Dimmook,
acted as agent of the DeWolfs.
The bill alleges, and the answers deny, that the plaintiff
executed and delivered the deed to Raggin "at the urgent
solicitation o-her husband, who was at the time -an invalid,
unable to attend to business, and who importuned the plaintiff
to make said deed, urging as a reason that he was unwilling
to die and leave her involved in a litigation which might result
in her picuniary rum, and the plaintiff, yielding.t his entreaties and peruasmons, consented to and did makesaid deed;"
and that DeWolf and wife, at the time of the execution of
that deed, "well knew that the same was made by the plaintiff under the influence of her said husband and because of, his
persuasion and solicitation, and was not her free and voluntary
act."
In March, 1884, DeWolf and wife conveyed the land to

OCTOBER TERM,. 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Barnes. The bill afleges that this conveyance was made "for
the purpose of covering up and concealing their title to the
same, thQ better to cheat and defraud the plaintiff." The
answers deny that it was made with that or any other fraudulent. or wrongful purpose.
It appears by the evidence that, at and before the time of
the making of the deed to Haggin, ffrs. Hays and her husbaud had very little other property, while B1aggn and DeWolf were wealthy, and that her husband was very ill of
consumption complicated with other diseases (of which he
died a year afterwards) and was, as his attending physician
testified, "extremely nervous and sensitive, and easily affected
by almost everything surrounding him," and less fit to transact business than he had-previously been. Mrs. Hays testifies
that she was induced to make the deed by the persuasions anu
entreaties of her husband, who was greatly worried by the
f6ear of leaving her without means in a network of legal
trouble.
But the other circumstances,. preceding and attending the
execution of-the deed, which are clearly established by the
evidence, give a different color to the matter.
In May, 1876, Mi's. Hays brought anaction in a court of
the State against :DeWolf and wife, alleging that she had been
induced to make her original purchase by their fraudulent representations as to. the value of, the property, and demanding
damages for the fraud, as well as that the note and mortgage
might be declared void. Raggie's action to forclose the mortgage was brought in-November, 18116.
Mr- Rearden, a counsellor at. law, whose integrity and
veracity are not impugned, and who had long been acquainted
with Hays and wife and their affairs, and was one of her
coutisel, testifies that while those two suits were pending the
question of a compromise and settlement was discussed between hunself and the opposing counsel, by which of them
first suggested he did* not remember; that he had conversations.on the sublect at his -offlce in San Francisco with Hays
alone, and afterwards with him in the presence of his wife at
their residence m Redwood; that "they stated a number

DrWOLF v. HAYS.
Opinion of the Court.

of facts which, if proved, might possibly be defences to the
note and mortgage ;" that the reasons Hays gave him for
wanting to settle the matter were that "they were practically
without means to carry on any extensive litigation, which
seemed to be opening, up, and his h:ealth was bad, and he did
not want to risk his labor and time on the great uncertainties
of- this business ;" and that he carefully suggested to Hays
various items of the possible expenses of the ]itigation, and,
among other things, that one of the pending suits "would
possibly cost hiin all the way from $1500 to $2500."
It was. after Hays had talked with Rearden, that, as MNKrs.
Hays testifies, he entreated her and she consented "to wipe
out the whole thing, the DeWolf suit and the Haggin suit and
everything, if they could just get out of it, and not continue
in it at all"
Mrs. Hays further testifies that, at Rearden's request, she
went without her husband to San Francisco "to see the DeWolfs m relation to this matter of the deed and the suit," an&
negotiations were had at Reardeu's office between Mrs. Hays
and Rearden on the one side and DeWolf and his counsel oi
.the other, lasting a great part of two days, before a settlement
was effected. The only evidence of any knowledge on the
farb of the defendants that Mrs. Hays was acting under the
influence of her.husband'is her testimony that she then told
DeWolf "that she wanted to wipe out the whole thing on
account of her husband's ill health, and that'she did it because
it was a wife's duty, m other words, to do what he told her
to do."
The terms of the settlement, as then agreed upon and some
days afterwards carried out, were that the mortgage note was
delivered up to Mrs. Hays, two debts of hers of about $1200
were paid by-DeWolf, and Hays and wife executed the deed
conveying the land to Haggm, and a deed of release of all
claims against the DeWolfs. These deeds were dated January 16, 1871; and annexed to each of them wa - 9, certificate
of a notary public to its acknowledgment by Hays and wife,
and that she, upon being examined apart from her husband,
and madeacquainted with its contents, acknowledged her exe. cution and did not wish to retract it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
-Syllabus.

The plaintiff, in her present bill, filed in 188,4 does not allege any fraud or undue influence in the original transaction
in 1872, by which she purchased the property and gave the note
and mortgage for part of the price; but, on the contrary, claims
title under that purchase, and offers to pay the amount of the
mortgage note and interest, deducting any rents and profits
received by the defendants.

The uncontradicted testimony of

well informed witnesses proves that at the time of the settlement in 18T the value of the undivided half of the land did
not exceed the amount of the mortgage, -althoughit has since
greatly increased because of the introduction of irrigation.
In the state of facts then existing, the settlement appears to
have been a prudent and fair one, made deliberately and under
advice of competent counsel. Independently of any question
of laches, therefore, no ground is shown for maintaining this
suit.
.Decree reversed,and case remandedto ae Circuit Court, witk
directions to dism'es the bill.

- DOO"LAH v. CARR.
.BEOR TO TEM OMOrIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOPT
DISTRICT OF CAIFORNI..
-o. 34. Argued October 24,25, i88.-Depided November 2i, 1887.

The proper Circuit Court of the United States has )urisdiction, irrespective
of the citizenship of the parties, of an action in ejectment, in which the
controversy turns upon the validity of a patent of land from the United
States.
Want of power In an officer of the Land Office to istue a land patent may
be shown in an action at law by extrinsic evidence, although the patent
may be issued with aki the forms of law required for a patent of public
land.
Land within the limits of a valid Mexican grant (which grant was sub judce
when the grant of public land mnaid. of the Pacific :Railroads was made
by the act of July 1, 1862, as amended July 2, 1864, and March 3, 1865),
If found after the location of the railroads to be within the prescribed
limits on either side of them, did not pass to the corporations as ,, public

