KREIGER v. SHELBY RAILROAD CO.
Syllabus.

effect to the subsequent law, but decides, on grounds independent of that law, that the right claimed was not conferred by
the contract, the case stands just as if the subsequent law had
not been passed, and this court has no jurisdiction.
In the present case, the Supreme Court of Louisiana did
not, and the plaintiff m error does not pretend that it did,.
give any effect to the provision of the Constitution of 1879
abolishing monopolies. Its judgment was based wholly upon
the general law of the State, and upon the construction and
effect of the charter from the legislature to the plaintiff company, and of the license from the city council to the defendant
company, and in no degree upon the Constitution or any law
of the State subsequent to the plaintiff's charter. The case
cannot be distinguished in principle from the cases above cited,
in which writs of error to State courts have been dismissed for
want of jurisdiction. As was said in .Banko of "Fesi Tennessee
v. Citizens' Banke of Iouisiana, above cited, "The result in
this case would have"been necessarily the same if the Constitution had not contained the provision in question."
-lJrtof errordini sedfor. ont of jurtdiction.

:KREIGER v. SHELBY RAILROAD COMPANY and
Others.
SAME and Others v. SAME and Others.
SAM and Another v. SAME and Others.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF TEE STATE OF
Noe. 948, 949, 950. Submitted December 12,18S. -Decided

7NTO17

.

March 19, 1888.

Upon a writ of error to the highest court of a State, under Rev. Stat. § 709,
the opinion of that court, recorded as required by the statutes of the
State, may be examined by this court to ascertain the ground of the
3udg-ment.
Statutes of a State authorized a district in a county, defined by exact boundaries, to determine by the vote of its libhabitants to subscribe for stock

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
in a railroad company, and required bonds to be executed in its'name by
the county 3udge to the railroad company for'the amount of stock so
subscribed for. By later statutes, it was enacted that this district should
be entitled to vote on the amount of its stock, and in so doing be represented by certain magistrates of the county; and that it should have a
certain corporate name, and by that name might sue and be sued. The
nghest court of the State held that by the earlier statutes the district
was made t corporation, and entitled to vote and to receive dividends on
-its stock in the railroad company, and that the later statutes made no
change in the contradt created by the earlier statutes. fel(, that tbis
court Bad no jurisdiction on writ of error.

Taisp,were three suits in equity, one brought by the Shelby
Railroad Company, another by the Shelby Railroad District
of Shelby County in the State of Kentucky, and the third by
Kreiger and other individual stockholders in the railroad
company The plaintiffs in each suit were made defendants
in each of the other suits. All the cases were argued together
in the courts of the State of Kentucky and in this court, and
presented the question whether the Shelby :Railroad District
had the right of voting at stockholders' meetings upon stockheld'by it-rn the Shelby Railroad Company, under the following circumstances
By an act of the legislature of Kentucky of March 15, 1851,
the Shelby Railroad Company.was incorporated; its capital
stock was fixed at 8600,000, in shares of $50 each, to be subscribed for by any individual or corporation, at any meeting
of the stockholders, each stockholder was to be "1allowed one
vote for every- share owned by him, her, or it;'- on every
share subscribed, one dollar was to be paid at the time of the
subscription, and the residue in instalments and at times to be
fixed by the president and directors; all payments made on
the -stock were to bear interest until a dividend made, certificates of stock were to be issued to the persons entitled, in
addition to the shares subscribed or held by them, and no
certificates of stock were -vo be issued until they were paid for;
the county court of Shelby County was empowered to subscribe for stock for all such interest in behalf of the county, its
subscription was to be made payable at such times and places
and upoa such terms as might be agreed on between it and the

KREIGER v. SHELBY RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

commissioners or directors taking its subscription, -and, for'the
purpose of paying that subscription, it was authorized to levy
and collect a tax on all the property subject to taxation within
-was
the county; and every person paying any part of the tax
to be entitled to his pro rata share of stock, and to receive
a certificate thereof on paying, or produQing transfers from

those who had paid, for a full, half or quarter share.
An act of *February 3, 1869, amending the original charter,
authorized a certain portion of Shelby County, included in a
boundary defined in this act, to subscribe for any amount of
the stock not exceeding $300,000, and also authorized other
counties to subscribe for certain amounts of stock, and further
enacted as follows.:
"SEO. 3. Upon the written application of the president and
directors of said company and of ten taxpayers of any of said
counties, the county judge of such county shall, within thirty
days thereafter, cause a vote of the legal voters residing in
the county, or portion of county, to be taxed, to be taken at
the several places of voting therein, to ascertain whether the
voters of said counties, or portion of Shelby County, are in
favor of said subscription."
"SEc. 5. If a majority of the votes cast shall be in favor of

said subscription, it shall be the duty of the county judge forthwith to cause the subscription to be made in the name of said
county, .or portion of Shelby County, as the case may be.
"SEC. 6. Where any such subscription to the capital.stock of
said company shall have been ordered, and the conditions
aforesaid complied with, bonds shall be executed in the name
of and under the seal of or scroll of said portion of Shelby
County, or said counties, as the case may be, in such form and
in such amounts, the entire amount of said bonds not to
exceed the sum subscribed,, and payable at such places, and
bearing interest payable semi-annually, at such rates, not
exceeding eight .per centum per annum; as the president and
directors may elect. The bonds shall be due and payable
twenty years from their date, with the privilege reserved to
the said counties to pay them after three years from (late.
The bonds, shall be siomed by the judge of the county court

OCTOBER TERMf,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

and countersiagned by the county clerk. When so executed,
said bonds shall -be delivered to the president and directors
of said company, m payment of said subscription, and they
may be by them negotiated, hypothecated or sold, upon such
terms and at such times.as may by said president and directors
be deemed expedient, and may be transferred by endorsement.
SEc. 7. When any such subscription shall have been made,
it shall be the duty of the county judge and the justices of
the peace of the precincts or the counties m which the vote
is taken, to levy annually a direct tax upon all the property
in such county, or portion of county, subject to taxation for
state revenue, to pay the interest when due, and -the principal
at maturity, and they may levy a tax to pay any portion of
said bonds at any time after three years: Provided, that no
greater tax than one per cent shall be levied in any one year,
except to pay the bonds at maturity" "The collecting officer
shall execute to each person a receipt for the amount of taxes
paid by him, which shall be assignable, and, when they
amount to fifty dollars or more, shall entitle the holder, upon
presentation to the proper officers, of the company, to certificates of stock at the rate of one share for fifty dollars, and
every multiple of fifty."
" SEc. 9. The several counties and portion of counties shall
not vote the stock for which certificates may be issued to the
taxpayers, but the same shall be voted by the individual
stockholders."
An act of March 11, 1870, further amending the charter of
the railroad company, contained the following section:
"SEc. 3. When any county, or part of a county, city, town
or precinct, shall have delivered its bonds in payment for stock
subscribed, it shall be entitled to representation, and to vote
the amount of such stock in any meeting of the stockholders
of said company. The stock owned by a county shall be
represented by the county judge and all of the justices of the
peace of the county, stock.owned by a part of a county, or a
precinct, by the county judge and by the justices of the peace
residing in the district or precinct taxed, stock owned by a
city or town, by its general council or board of trustees; and

KREIGER v. SHELBY RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

these several bodies may designate a suitable person or persons
as their proxies to represent them in any meeting of the stockholders of said company. It shall be the duty of the county
judge to call together at the county seat the justices entitled
to vote, and to cause their action, to be spread upon the
records of the county court."
Another act, passed February 26, 1873, enacted that "the
part of Shelby County embraced in the boundary given" in
the act of 1869 should "have the corporate name of The
Shelby Railroaa District of Shelby County;" and by that
name might sue and be sued.
In accordance with the provisions of the act of 1869, that
portion of Shelby County therein defined forthwith subscribed
$300,000 to the stock of the railroad company, and its bonds
for that amotht were issued and delivered to the railroad
company on June 1, 1869, and were sold by the company and
the proceeds applied to the construction of its road; and a tax
was annually levied and collected, amnoutmg in all to more
than $300,000, which was applied to the payment of interest
beconnn due on the bonds, and of part of the principal,
leaving such bonds, or others given in renewal thereof, now
remaining unpaid to the amount of $248,000; and the district
holds certificates of stock to that amount, and always voted
upon its. stock until these suits were brought. Certificates of
stock to a large amount have also been issued to taxpayers
and are held by Kreiger and others. The first dividend on
the stock was declared in December, 1881, and was paid to all
the stockholders, mcluding the district.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky, affirming -thejudgments
of a lower court of the State, adjudged that the Shelby Railroad District of Shelby County was a stockholder in the
Shelby Railroad Company to the extent of the principal of
the bonds of the district, issued and delivered to the railroad
company, and still outstanding and unpaid, and was entitled
to vote and receive dividends accordingly.
Kreiger and others sued out these, writs of error, which the
railroad company and the district iiow moved to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

Opnixon of the Court.

.X'

T C0.

eckham and XM.P. J.Fn''ee for the motions.

X1r. B. F. Buckner and X!t. John,I. -Doddopposing.
AIR. JUSTicE

GRA, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended for the plaintiffs in error, that the statutes
of 1851 and 1869 created a contract by which the stockholders
of the Shelby Iailroad Company were those persons who had
become so by subscribing for stock or by the payment of
.axes, and the right to vote upon stock subscribed for by
counties or other municipal subdivisions was in taxpayers
only, and that the statutes of 1870 and 1873 first granted to
the Shelby.Railroad District of Shelby County the right to
vote as a stockholder in the railroad company, and thereby
impaired the obligation of the contract created by the earlier
statutes.
But the insuperable difficulty in the way of sustaining these
writs of error is, that it does not appear that the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky gave effect to the statutes of 1870 and
1873 as making any change in that contract.
The statutes of Kentucky require written opinions to be
delivered by the Court of Appeals in all cases, and to be
recorded by its clerk. Code of Civil Procedure, § 765, Gen.
Stat. c. 28, art. 2, § 10, c. 16, art. 1, § 1. By the settled
course of decision under the emsting judiciary acts of the
United States, this court may examine opinions so delivered
and recorded, to ascertain the ground of the judgment of the
State court. .Miurdock v-. Mehp7is, 20 Wall. 590, 633, -Mc3ianus v. O'Sullivan, 91 U. S. 578, Cross v. United States
Xtortgage Co., 108 U. S. 481, 487- Adams County v. Burlington. &- Missouri Railroad,112 U. S. 123,129; Detroit Railway
v. Guthard,114 U. S. 133, 137; Jacks v. Helena, 115 U. S.
YF.eAssociation v. INew York-, 119 U. S.
288; Philadepka
110. The decision in Fisher v. Cokerall,5 Pet. 248, 255, cited
by one of the defendants in error, in which, on a writ of error
to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, this court held that the

KREIGER v. SHELBY RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of'the Court.

opinion of that court could not be taken into consideration,
was decided under the judiciary act of 1789, wnch contained
a provision, omitted in the later acts, expressly requiring the
error assigned as a ground of reversal to appear on the face
of the record. Acts of September 25, 1'[89, c. 20, § 25, 1 Stat.
86; February 5, 186T, c. 28, § 2, 14 Stat. 386, Rev. Stat.

§709.
In the cases now before- us, the opinions delivered in writing
by the Court of Appeals of Yentucky, recorded by its clerk,
and sent up with the transcript, consist of an elaborate opinion upon the original hearing, and a shorter one upon a petition for a-rehearmg.
The original opinion makes no mention of the acts of 1810
and 1873, but, proceeding wholly upon the construction of the
charter of 1851, as amended ,y the act of 1869,'holds, for
reasons stated at length, that by the legal effect of the act of
1869, defining by boundaries a district in Shelby County,
authorizing it to determine by popular vote of its inhabitants
to subscribe for stock in the railroad company, and requiring
bonds to be executed in its name by the county judge to the
railroad company for the amount so subsbribed for, the district
was made a corporation, and entitled to all the rights and
privileges of other stockholders in the railroad company, and
had the right to vote and to receive dividends upon the stock
thus subscribed for, except so far as owners of property within
the district, having.paid taxes assessed upon them towards
paying the principal sum so subscribed, had received certificates
of stock for the sums so paid by them; and that the. right of
the district to vote and to receive dividends upon so much of its
stock as bad not been so paid for was not displaced or affected
by the issue of certificates of stock to taxpayers for sums paid
by them to meet the accruing interest on the sum subscribed
by the district, because the stock so issued for interest was, by
the express provisions of the charter constituting the contract
between the stockholders, to be in increase of the original
capital stock.
The opinion delivered on overruling the petition for a rehearing reaffirms the positions of the.former opinion, and declares

OqTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

that, while the provisions of the act of 1869, amending the
original act of incorporation, were indefinite as -to the manner
in which stock held by the district should be voted on, the
acts of 18170 and 1873 did no more than make that certan
-which was before uncertain, or had been omitted from the
original act of incorporation, by giving the district a distinct
name and authorizing it to be represented by the county judge
and justices of the county, and providing a xemedy by which
the rights of the corporation might be asserted and its liabilities enforced; but that there had been no change of contract.
It thus appears that the State court, upon full consideration,
decided that the acts of 1870 and 1873 conferred no new
rights, but only defined more clearly the manner in 'which
the rights conferred by-the earlier statutes should be exercised,
and that it based its judgmeuts entirely upon the construction
and effect of the earlier, statutes, and upon grounds 'which
would have been .equally controlling if the later acts had not
been passed. The necessary conclusion is that this court has
no jurisdiction to review those judgments. Bank of WIest
Tennessee v. Citizens' Bank of Louizana,13"Wall. 482, . 0.
14 Wall. 9, Palmer v. Ifarston, 14 Wall. 10; Rennebec Railroad v, Portland Railroad, 14 Wall. 28; Stevenson v.
W'illiams, 19 Wall. 572; -Mew Orleans l1aterworke v Zouisiana Sugar Rqfintng Lo., ante, 18.
Writs of error dismissedfn' want of jvrzsdition.

DALE TILE M,ANUFAOTURING COMPANY v.
HlYATT.
EIROR TO THE CITY COURT OF iEW YORF.
No. 1232. Submittcl Ianunry 9, 188.-Decided .Nnich19, 1888.
An action upon an agreement in writing, by which, in consideration of a
license from the patentee to make and sell the invention, the licensee
acknowledges the validity of the patent, stipulates that the patentee may
obtain reissues thereof, and promises to pay certain royalties so longas the

