OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

IEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS COMPANY
L OUISIANA SUGAR
I REFI lNG COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREXE COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 38. Argued October 26, 27, 1837.-Deccded March 19, 1888.

The opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is strictly part of the record, and is so considered on -writ of error from this court.
The provision of the Constitution of the United States, which declares that
no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts, is aimed
at the legislative power of the State, and not at derasions of its courts,
or acts of executive or administrative boards or officers, or doings of corporations or individuals.
Tis court has no jurisdiction of a writ of error to the highest court of a
State, on the ground that the obligation of a contract has-been impaired,
unless some legisla ive act of the State is upheld by the.judgment sought
to be reviewed; and when the state court gives no effect to a law of the
State subsequent jo the contract, but holds, upon grounds independent
of that law, that the right claimed 'as not conferred by the contract,
the writ of error must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The legislature of Louisiana In 1877 having granted to a corporation the
exclusive right of constructing wvaterworks to supply the city of New
Orleans and its inhabitants ivith water, provided that nothing in this
charter should prevent the city council from granting to any person, contiguous to the Mississippi River, permission to lay 1vater pipes exclusively for its own use, an ordinance of the city council in 1883, granting
such permission to a corporation whose property is separated from the
river by a street and a broad quay or levee owned by the city, is but a
license from the city council exercising an administrative power, and not
a law of the State; and if the highest court of the State, in a suit
between the waterworks company and the licensee, gives judgment for
the latter, upon the construction and effect of the charter and the license,
and not because-of the provision of the state constitution of 1879 abolishing monopolibs, this court has no jurisdiction on writ of error, although
the question whether the licensee's property was contiguous to the river
was in controversy.

THIS was a petition, filed March 80, 1883, in the Civil
District Court for the Parish of New Orleans, by the New
Orleans Waterworks ,Company against the Louisiana Sugar
Refinng Company and the City of New-Orleans, to restrain
the la.rng of water pipes from the factory of the LIsomiana
Sugar Refining Company through the streets and thorough-

N. 0. IVATEAWORKS v. LA. SUGAR CO.
Statement of the Case.

fares of the city to the Mississippi River. The allegations of
the petition are in substance as follows:
That the legislature.of Louisiana, by an act of April 1,1833,
chartering the Commercle Bank of New Orleans, declared
the chief object of that corporationto be "the conveying of
water from the river into the city of New Orleans and its
faubourgs, and into the houses of its inhabitants;" and enacted that it should "have forever the exclusive privilege,
from and after the passing of this act, of supplying the city
and inhabitants of -New Orleans and its faubourgs with water
from the river Mississippi, by means of pipes or conduits,"
and the right to construct the necessary works for that purpose; and provided that its works, rights and privileges imng&t
be purchased by the city of New Orleans at any time after
thirky-five years from the passage of the act.
That in 1869 the city of New Orleans purchased the same
accordingly, and took charge of and used the works for the
purpose of supplying the city and its inhabitants with water.
That the act of the legislature of Louisiana of March 31,
1877, incorporating the plaintiff, contained the following provisions:
Sro. 2. "That immediately after the organization of the
said Waterworks Company, as hereinafter provided, it shall
be required to issue to the city of New Orleans stock to theamount of six hundred and six thousand six hundred dollars,
as full-paid, and not subject to assessment;. and'in addition
thereto, one similar share for every one hundred dollars of
"waterworks boiids which said city may have taken up heretofore and extinguished by pqyment, exchange or otherwise;
and that the lesidue of said capital stock shall -be reserved for
the benefit of all holders of waterworks bonds, to the extent
of the amount now outstanding, who may elect to avail
themselves of the provisions of this act."
"SEo. 5, ".That the said Waterworks Company shall own and
possess the privileges acquired by the city 6f 3New Orleans
from the C6mmercial Bank; that-it snall have for fifty years
from'the passage of this act the exclusive privilege of supplying the city of New Orleans and its inhabitants with water

OCTOBER TERM-,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

from the :M]ississippi River, or any other stream or river, Uy
means of pipes and conduits, and for erecting or constructing
any necessary works or engines or machines for that purpose;"
and have authority "to lay and place any number of conduits
or pipes or aqueducts, and to cleanse and repair the same.
through or over any of the lands or streets of the city of
New Orleans; provided the same shall not be an obstruction
to commerce or free circulation."
SEo. 11. "That the city of New Orleans shall be allowed to
use water from the pipes and plugs of said company now laid,
or hereafter to be laid, free of. any charge, "forthe extinguishment of fires, cleansing of the streets, and for the use of all
public buildings, public markets and charitable institutions."
S'o. 1.

That "at the expiration of fifty years from the

organization of the company, the city shall have the right to
buy the works, conduits, pipes, etc., of the company, at a
valuation to be fixed by five experts;" '"but should the city
neglect or refuse to purchase said works, etc., as above proTided, the charter of the company shall be ipsofacto extended
for fifty years longer, but without any exclusive privilege or
right to supply water, according to the provisions of the
charter."
SEC. 18. "1That nothing in this act shall be so construed as
to prevent the city council from granting to any person or
persons, coiitiguous to the river, the privilege of laying pipes
to the river, exclusively for his own or their own use."
That on April 9, ISTS, the city transferred the waterworks
and franchises aforesaid to the plaintiff.
That "since said transfer the petitioner has faithfully discharged the trust imposed on it, and complied with all its oblidations, hat, by virtue of tfe aforesaid exclusive privilege
thus conferred upon it by the aforesaid charters, statutes and
acts of transfer, the city of New Orleans cannot grant to any
one the privilege of laying pipes to the river to convey water
ivithin her limits, without a flagrant violation of the aforesaid contracts and a breach of warranty, with the exception,
however, of such privilege or facility as said city may think it
expedient to extend to riparian owners of property lying contiguous to said river."

N. 0. WATERWORKS

,.

LA. SUGAR CO.

Statement of the Case.

That the city of NTew Orleans granted permission to the
Louisiana, Sugar Refining Company, a corporation domiciled
in the parish of Orleans, to lay pipes from its factory to the
:Mississippi River, as appeared by the following ordinance,
adopted by the city council on March 13, and approved by
the mayor on March 1.5, 1883:
"An ordinance providing for the erection of all necessary
machinery, boilers and engines, and laying of water and
sewerage pipes in connection with the Lo.isiana Sugar Refining Company's works.
"Be it ordained that permission be, and is hereby, granted
to the Louisiana Sugar Refining Company to erect all necessary machinery, boilers and engines in their factory in course
of construction in the square bounded by Front, Clay, Bienville
and Custom-House Streets, and to lay water and sewerage
pipes from said factory to the Mississippi River, according to
lines and grades for same to be furnished by the city surveyor:
Provided, that all excavations and street crossings, paving,
etc., broken up shall be repTaced, repaired and relaid to the
entire satisfaction of the commissioner of public works; revocable at the pleasure of the council."
That" under said permission the said Lousiana, Sugar Refining Company has broken the grounds along and across the
streets and thoroughfares of the said city in the direction of
the said river from its aforesaid factory, and will, unless restrained by the equitable writ of injunction, complete said
works, pipes and conduits, and proceed to draw therewith
water from the Mississippi River, in violation of the exclusive
privileges aforesaid of the petitioner, and to its great" damage
and injury ;" and "that said Louisiana Sugar Refining Company has no riparian rights in the premises, and its property
is not contiolous to said river."
The answer of the city of Nev Orleans denies all the allegations of the petition.
The answer of the Louisiana Sugar Refining Company also
denies all those allegations, except that it admits, that by' the
ordinance aforesaid "the city of New Orleans granted to it
license and permission to lay water and sewerage pipes from

OCTOBER TER-af,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

its factory to the Mississippi. Rivert, and that it has availed
itself of the license therein granted, strfctly in accordance
with the ordinance aforesad;" and "admits that it is the.
owner of certain property within the square bounded by Front,
Clay, Bienville, and Oustom-House Streets, m the city of -New
Orleans, and avers-that said property is what is known as batture property, and that the rights, ways and privileges of the
city of :New Orleans were transferred by the title given by
the said city of lNew Orleans to its vendors ;" and "avers
that said property fronts on a public street and the quay, a
public place, and that it is contiguous and adjacent to the
Mississippi River, and that the respondent has riparian rights
to draw water therefrom for its own use and manufacturing
purposes, and to convey and discharge its water therein;"
"denies that the plaintiff corporation has any exclusive privilege and right to draw water from the Mississippi River by
conduits and pipes, or otherwise, winch could or would impair
the use by this respondent and every other person of the said
water for its own and their supply ;" avers "that, if there be
any such preteiided exclusive privilege and right, it is-null and
void, as in derogation of common right and of law;" "denies
that it has supplied, or is now supplying, or intends hereafter
to supply, the city of N~ew Orleans or any of its inhabitants
with water, or to carry off and discharge any waste except its
own; and expressly avers that the pipes laid are for its own
exclusive use, and that it draws water from said river only for
its own use and manufacturig purposes connected with its
said factory;" and further avers "that the exclusive rights
and privilegea claimed by the plaintiff under its charter would
constitute a monopoly, and are therefore null and void."
Upon A trial by jury, it appeared that the material provisions
of the aforesaid statutes of Louisiana were as above set forth ;
and the evidence supported all the .allegations of fact in the
petition, ixcept that the acts of the Louisiana Sugar Refining
Company, and the situation of its factory in relation to the
river, were proved to be as follows. The company was constructing a factory on its land, bounded by Front, Clay, Bienville and: Custom-Houie Streets, and had begun to lay water

NT. 0. WATERWORKS v. LA. SUGAR 00.
Statement of the Case.

and sewerage pipes, exclusively for the use of its factory, and
according to lines and grades furnished by the city surveyor,
from its factory straight to the river, across Front Street, and
thence across a broad quay or levee, owned by the city, and
open to the public, except that some large sugar sheds occupied by lessees of the city stood upon it, and thaz the tracks
of the Louisville, Nashville and Mobile Railroad were laid
across it.
The, plaintiff asked the court to instruct the jury: "1st.
That the word 'contiguous,' as used in § 18 of the charter
of the plaintiff company, means riparian, of on the edge of
the river. 2d. That the city of New Orleans has no right to
grant permission to any person or corporation whose property
is not contiguous to the river to.-lay pipes or conduits to the
Mississippi River to draw water therefrom through said pipes
or conduits for manufacturing or other purposes." The court
refused to give either of said instructions, "on the ground that
the jury were judges both of the law and the facts of the case,"
and allowed a bill of exceptions. The jury returned a verdict.
for the defendants, ahd the court, with the verdict and the
.evidence before it, gave judgment for the defendants, dismissing the suit.
The plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
which affirmed the judgment, and in its opinion recapitulated
the substance of the provisions of the statutes of Louisiana,
above quoted, the conveyances from the Commercial Bank to
the city of New Orleans in 1868 -and from the city to the
plaintiff in 1877, and the ordinance, passed by the city council
in 1883, granting to the Louisiana Sugar.Refining Company
permission to lay pipes :from its factory to the Mississippi River,
and stated the question to be decided and the grounds of its
decision as follows:
"The question which arises, under such .state of facts, is
simply, Whether the city of New Orleans had the right to
grant the authority. If the city had such a right, the defendant company has a right to exercise it.
" In order to determine that question, it is essential, firt, to
ascertain wtat is the nature and extent ofthe privilege origi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

nally conferred by the State upon the Commerbial Bank, and
which passed to the city of iNew Orleans, by whom it was
afterwards transferred to the defendant [plaintiff] company,
orgamzed, a. it was, by a charter which is explicit as to its
prerogatives and responsibilities."
"The right conferred by the legislature in 1838, and confirmed in 1877, was- not to draw water from the river, nor was
it to lay pipes and conduits on the lands and streets of the city
of N~ew Orleans. 'It was the excZlusie privilege of supplying
the city and its inhabitants with water drawn from the river
by those means, the object in view being, on account of benefits derived by the city, the exqusion of all others, corporations
and individuals, from maldng'a sinilar supply, in other words,
from selling and vending water.
"The Commercial Bank, in common with all the inhabitants
-of,the city, possessed, independent of any legislative grant- or
concession, the right to draw water from the river for its own
purposes, and to supply the city and its inhabitants with it;
but it did not, any more than any of the inhabitants of the
city, have the right of laying the pipes and conduits necessary
to convey the water through or over any of the lands or streets
of the city, and to do so it required special authority, either
directly from the State, or from .its functionary, the city herself. The right which it did not possess, and which no other
inhabitant possessed, was the exclusive privilege of supplying
the city and its inhabitants for- ever, or a limited time, by
means of pipes and conduits laid through the public soil.
"The-moment that privilege was conferred by the State on
the corporation, to supply the city and its inhabitants with
water from the river, through pipes and conduits which it was
authorized to -lay through and over any of the lands or streets
of the city, all preeixisting, as well as all subsequently arising
rights, which could have otherwise been exercised, ceased to
be available, and competition for such supply became an absolute kgal impossibility.
"The right to that exclusive privilege, under the present
constitution, is contested by the defendant, but it is entirely
out of place to consider whether it exists or not, as, under the.

1N. 0. WATERWORKS v. LA. SUGAR CO.
Statement of the Case.

pleadings and the facts, the question of competition is not
at all at issue.
",The city. of ifew Orleans does not claim to have conferred
on the defendant company, and that company does not claim
to have received from the city, the right or privilege of supplying the city and its inhabitants with water by means of
pipes, conduits and hydrants.
"1The city and the defendant company claim only that the
former had a right to grant, and the latter has that to enjoy,
the permission of laying pipes and conduits from the river to
its factory, for the sole purpose of supplying itself with water
for its own purposes, and for no other.
"SIt cannot be doubted for an instant that, as the city has,
under general laws and by her charter, which emanates
directly from the sovereign, the exclusive control and regulation of her public lands, quays, streets and avenues, she had
the right of permitting the defendant company to lay pipes
and conduits across the quay and through the streets, from the
river to within its factory limits, for the purpose of supplying
itself with the water needed for its objects. R~ev. Civil Code,
arts. 450, 453, 455, 457; Brown v. .ThlZessqs, 14 La. Ann. 854;
Board of Zigusdation,v. New Orleans, 32 La. Ann. 915.
"It is true, that section 18 of the charter of 1877 expressly
protects riparian or contiguous proprietors against K possible
effect of the execistve privilege granted; but the provision there
found is not to be construed as one conferring a privilege or
right which otherwise would have had no existence. It is
indisputable, that such riparian or contiguous owners would,
independently of the declarations in section 18, have enjoyed
that right, which could, under no contingency, have thus been
abridged.
"1They had clearly, not only the privilege, in common with
all others, to draw the running water from the river for
domestic purposes, ad lavandun. etpotendum, but also, on pAin ciple, that, without the need of a previous permission, of laying pipes from the river to their premises, to draw the water
necessary for their use. The State and her functionariespolitical corporations -however have the right, in the exer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

cise of the police power, of regulating the enjoyment of that
right, denying or permitting it, according as public security
and good may or may not demand.
"1Ifsection 18 was designed for any practical object, it could
only have been to secure to the contiguous owners, beyond
the possibility of a doubt, their indisputable rights, subjecting
them, however, to the control of the municipal authorities,
as the improvident or careless exercise of such rights across the
river bank and through the public street of a populous metropolis might be attended with great calamitous consequences,
inflicting incalculable owrong and injury." 35 La. Ann. 1111.
A writ of error from this court was allowed by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, upon the plaintiff's
petition representing "that said plaintiff set up to its charter
as a contract between it and said city of New Orleans and the
State of Louisiana; and that the ordinance of sawd city in
favor of said defendant, the Lousiana Sugar Refining Company, was a violation -of said contract, which was protected
by the Constitution of the United States, and said Supreme
Court in its decree maintained the legality of said ordinance,
and decreed it to be no violation of said contract."
.Jr. T B. _BekwiA for plaintiff in error.
Xr. S. Teakl

Talli for defendant in error.

MR. JusTi n Gr&y, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in its original petition relied on a charter from
the legislature of Louisiana, which granted to it the exclusive
privilege of supplying the city of New Orleans and its inhabitants with water from the Mississippi River, but provided that
the city council should not be thereby prevented from granting
to any person " contiguous to the river" the privilege of
laying pipes to the river for his own use. The only matter
complained of by the plaintiff, as impairing the obligation of
the contract contained in its charter, was an ordinance of the
city council, granting to the Louisiana Sugar Refining Coin-

T. 0. WATERNWORKS v. LA. SUGAR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

pany pemission to lay pipes from the river to its factory,
,which, the plaintiff contended, was not contignous to the
river.
The Louisiana Sugar Refimng Company m its answer alleged
that its factory was contiguous to the river, that it had the
right as a -riparian proprietor to draw water from the river
for its own use, that its pipes were being laid for its own- use
only, that the plaintiff had no exclusive privilege that would
impair such use of the water by the defendant company, and
that the rights and privileges claimed by the plaintiff would
constitute a monopoly and be therefore null and void.
The evidence showed that the pipes of the defendant company were being laid exclusively for the use of its factory, and
that no private ownership intervened between it and the river
but only a public street, and a broad quay or levee, owned by
the city and open to the public, except that some large sugar
sheds, occupied by lessees of the city, stood upon it, and that
the tracks of a railroad were laid across it.
The grounds upon which the Supreme Court of Louisiana
gave judgment for the defendants appear by its opinion, which,
under the practice of that state, is strictly part of the ecord,
and has always been so considered by this court on writs
of error, as well under the ludiciary Act of 1789, which
provideil that "no other error shall be assigned or regarded
as a ground of reversal than such. as appears on the face of the
record," as under the later acts, in which that provision is
omitted. Acts of September 2-, 1789, c. 20, § 25, 1 -Stat. S6;
February 5, 1867, c. 28, § 2, 14 Stat. 386, Rev. Stat. § 709;
Almonester v. Eenton, 9 How. 1, 9; G'and uy Bailroadv.
fa'shall, 12 How. 165; (ousin v. Blanc, 19 How. 202;
.Delmasv. Insurance Co., 14 Wall. 601, 663, 667; Crossley v.
Orkans, 108 U. S.105; Crescent City Co. v. Butchers'
zrow
Union C/c., 120 U. S.141, 146.

That opinion, as printed m 35 La. Ann. 111, and in the
record before us,shows that the grounds of the judgment were,
that the right conferred by the legislature of the State upon
the Commercial Bank by its charter in 1833, and confirmed to
the plaintiff by its charter in 187, was the exclusive privilege

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

of supplying the city and its inhabitants with water by means
of pipes and conduits through the streets and lands of the
city; that by the general law of Loiusiana, independently of
anything in those statutes, riparian or contiguous proprietors
had the right of laying pipes to the river to draw the water
necessary for their own use, subject to the authority of the
State and the city, m the exercise of the police power, to
regulate this right, as the public security and the public good
might require, that section 18 of the plaintiff's charter had
no o'her object than to secure, beyond the possibility of doubt,
this right of the contiguous owners and the control of the
municipal authorities; and that the city was authorized to
permit the defendant company to.lay pipes across the quay
and through the streets from the river to its factory, for the
purpose of supplying it with water for its own use.
The Constitution of Louisiana of 1879 does provide, in article
258, that "the monopoly features in the charter of any corporation now existing in the State, save such as may be contained in the charters of railroad companies, are hereby
abolished." But the opinion of the Supreme Court of the
State shows that it thought it unnecessary and "entirely out
of place" to consider the effect of that provision upon the
exclusive privilege of the plaintiff; and it was not suggested,
either in the petition for the writ of error, or m the assignment
of errors, or in any of the briefs filed in this court, that any
effect was given by the judgment of the State court to rhat
provision of the Constitution of the State.
The only grounds, on which the plaintiff in error attacks
the judgment of the State court, are that the court erred in its
construction of the contract between the State and the plaintiff, contained in the plaintiff's charter; and in not adjudging
that the ordinance of the city council, granting to the defendant company permission to lay pipes from its factory to the
river, was void, because it impaired the obligation of that
contract.
The arguments at the bar were principally directed to the
question whether upon the facts proved the factory of the
defendant company was contiguous to the river. But that is

N. 0. WATERWORKS v. LA. SUGAR CO.
Opimon of the Court.

not a question which this.court upon this record is authorized
to consider.
This being a writ of error to the highest court of a State. a
federal question must have been decided by that court against
the plaintiff m error; else this court has no jurisdiction to
review the judgment. As was said by Mffr. Justice Story, fifty
years ago, upon a full review of the earlier decisions, "itis
sufficient if it appears by clear and necessary intendment that
the question must have been raised, and must have been
decided in order to have induced the judgment," and "it is
not sufficient to show that a question might have arisen or
been applicable to the case, unless it is further shown, on the
record, that it did arise, and was applied by the State court to
the case." Crowell v. Randall, 10 Pet. 368, 398. The rule
so laid down has been often- affirmed, and constantly acted
on. Gr'and GOuf .Railroadv. farshall, 12 How 165, 16't;
Bridge Propritorsv. Hobohem Co., 1 Wall. 116, 143, &teues
v .F'anklinCounty, 14 Wall. 15, 21. In .iinger v X'isomri,
13 Wall. 251, 263, 31r. Justice Bradley declared the rule to be
well settled that "where it appears by the record that the
judgment of the State court might have been based either upon
a law which would raise a question of repugnancy to the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States, or upon some
other independent ground, and it appears that the court did,
in fact, base its judgment on such independent ground, and
not on the law raising the federal question, this court will not
take jurisdiction of the case, even though it might think the
position of the State court an unsound one." And in many
recent cases, under § 709 of the Revised Statutes, this court,
speaking by the Chief Justice, has reasserted the rule, that to
give it jurisdiction of a writ of error to a State court, it must
appear affirmatively, not only that a federal question was presented for decision to the highest court of the State having jurisdiction, but that "its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was actually decided, or. that
the judgment as rendered could not have been given ithout
deciding it." .Brownv. Ahvel, 92 U. S. 327; Citizen? Bank
v. Bank of Ligqudation, 98 U. S. 140, Ghouteaiu v. Gibson,

OCTOBER, TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

111 U. S. 200; Adcams Couty v. Burliniom .& MXisou.i
Railroad,112 U. S. 123; .Datroit Railway v. Guthard 114
U. S. 133.
In order to come within the provision of the Constitution of
the United States which declares that no State shall pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts, not only must the
obligation of a contract have been impaired, but it mulst have
been impaired by a law of the State. The prohibition is
aimed at the legislative power of the State, and not at the
decisions of its courts, or the acts of adlinistrative or executive boards or officers, or the doings of corporations or
individuals.
This court, therefore, has no jurisdiction to r.eview a judgment of the hfghest court of a State, on the ground that the
obligation of a contract has been. npaired, unless some legislative act ofthe State has been upheld by the judgment sought
to be revew.ed. The general rule, as applied to this class of
cases, has been clearly stated in two opinions of this court,
delivered by Mr. Justice Miller. "It must be the Constitution
or some law of the State, which impairs the obligation of the
contract, or which is otherwise in conflict with the Constitution of the United States; and the decision .ofthe State court
must sustain the law or constitution of the State, in the matter
in which the conflict is supposed to, exist; or the case for this
court does not arise." 1?5ilroad Co. v. Rock, 4: Wall. 1'l'7,
181. "We are not authorized by the Judiciary Act to revweiw
the judgments of the State courts, because their judgments
refuse to give effect to valid contracts, or because those judgmnents, in their effect, impair the obligation of contracts. If
we did, every case decided in a State court could be brought
here, where the party setting up a contract alleged that the
court had taken a different view of its obligation to that which
he held." _Ynox v. JBecange Bank, 12 Wall. 379, 383.
As later decisions have shown, it is not strictly and literally
true, that a law of a State, in order to come within the constitutional prohibition, must be either in the form of a statute
enacted by the legislature in the ordinary course of legislation,
or in.the form of a constitution established by the people of
the State as their fundamental law.

N. 0. WATERWORKS v. LA. SUGAR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

In iTrliam v. Brzfy, 96 U. S. 176, 183,. it was said by
AIr. Justice Field, delivering judgment, "Any enactment, from
whatever source originating, to which a State gives the force
of law, is a statute of the State, within the meaning of the
clause cited relating to the jurisdiction of this court;" (Rev.
Stat. § 1109;) and it was therefore held that a statute of the so
called Confederate States, if enforced by one of the States as
its law, was within the prohibition of the .Oonstitution.
So a by-law or ordinance of a mumcipal corporation may be
such an exercise of legislative power delegated by the legislature to the corporation as a political subdivision of the State,
having all the force of law within the limits of the municipality, that it may properly be considered as a law, within the
meaning of this article of the Constitution of the United
States.
For instance, the power of determining what persons and
property shall be taxed belongs exclusively to the legislative
branch of the government, and, whether exercised by the legislature itself, or delegated by it to a municipal corporation, is
strictly a legislative power. United States v. -New Orlanq,
98 U. S. 381, 392; X7fe,iwether v. Gar'ett,10.2"U. S. 4-72. Aecor4ingly, where the city council of Charleston, upon which
the legislature of South Carolina, by the city charter, had conferred the power of taxing persons and property within the"
city, passed ordinances assessing a tax upon bonds of the city,
and thus diminishing the amount of interest which it had
agreed to pay, this court held such ordinances to be laws impairing the obligation of contracts, for the reason that the city
charter gave limited legislative power to the city council, and,
when the ordinances were passed under the supposed authority
of the legislative act, their provisions became the law of the
State. Mueray v. Charleson, 96 U. S. 432, 440. See also
Home A8h. Co. v. City Council of Augusta, 93 U. S. 116.

But the ordinance now in question involved no exercise of
legislative power. The legislature, in the charter granted to
the plaintiff, provided that nothing theretn.should "be so construed as to prevent the city council from granting to any person or persons, contiguous to the river, the privilege of laying

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

pipes to the river, exclusively for his or theit own use." The
legislature itself thus defined the class of persons to whom, and
the object for which, the permission might be granted. All that
was left to the city council was the duty of determining what
persons came within the definition, and how and where they
might be permitted to lay pipes, for the purpose of securing
their several rights to draw water from the river, without
unreasonable interfering with the conyement use by the publie of the lands and highways of the city. The rufle was established by the legislature, and its execution only committed to
the municipal authorities. The power conferred upon the city
council was not legislative, but administrative, and might
equally well have been vested by law in the mayor alone, or in
any other officer of the city. Raib'oad Co. v. EIZer m , 105
U. S. 166, 172, Day v. ( 'een,, 4Cush. 433, 438. The permission granted by the city council to the defendant company,
though put m the -form of an ordinance, was in effect but a
license, and not a by-law of the city, still less a law of the
State. If that license was within the authority vested in the
city council by the law of Louisiana, it was valid; if it transcended that authority, it was illegal and void. But the question whether it was lawful or unlawful depended wholly on
the law of the State, and not at all on any provision of the
Constitution or laws of the United States.
The cases of .iVew Orleans T-aterworTe v. .Rivers, 115 U. S.
674', and &t. Tammnay Waterworks v. "Yew Orleans Wfiter"works, 120 U. S. 64, on which the plaintiff relied in support of
its bill, were essentially different from the case at bar. In
each of those cases, the validity of the article of the Constitution of 1879 abolishing monopolies was drawn in question by
the bill, and relied on by the defendants. lRivers did not contend that his property was contiguous to the river. The St.
Tammany Waterworks Company had been incorporated since
the New Orleans Waterworks Company, under a general
statute of the State, for the purpose of supplying the whole
city and its inhabitants with water. And both those cases
were appeals from the Circuit Court of the United States,
upon which this court was not restricted to the consideration

IN. 0. WATERWORKS v. LA. SUGAR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

of federal questions decided below, but bad jurisdiction to
determine the whole case.
The difference in the extent of the jurisdiction of this tourt
on writ of error to the highest court of a State, and on appeal
from a Circuit Court of the United States -as affected by the
ground of the decision of the court below-is illustrated by
the cases of contracts payable in Confederate- currency, or
made m consideration of loans of Confederate currency, dhring the war of the rebellion, and by the cases of promissory
notes given before that war for. the price of persons sold as
slaves.
In 7orington, v. ,Smith, 8 Wall. 1, this court, reversing a
judgment of the Circuit Crourt of the United States in Alabama,
held that a contract for the payment of money in Confederate
currency was not unlawful. Like decisions have often been
made in later cases brought here from the Circuit Courts of
the United States. Planters'Bank v. Union Bank. 16 Wall.
483, 497; Confederate _Aote Case, 19 Wall. 548, lfilni~ngton.
WeIdon& .Railroadv. Eing, 91 U. S. 3; Cook v. Zillo, 103
TF
T. S. 792. Yet in Bethel v. Demaret, 10 Wall. 537,where a
suit on a mortgage to secure the payment of promissory notes
given for a loan of Confederate currency had been dismissed
by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, on the ground that the
notes and mortgage were nullities, because the Confederate
currency, wich constituted the consideration, was illegal by
the general law of the State, this court dismissed the writ of
error, because no statute of the State was drawn m question.
And in Bank of West Tennessee v. Citizens' Bank of Iouisiana,
13 Wall. 432; 8. C 14 Wall. 9 ; where the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, affirming a judgment rendered by an inferior court
of the State before the adoption of article 127 of the State
Constitution of 1868, by which "all agreements, the consideration of which was Confederate money, notes or bonds, are null
and void, and shall not be enforced by the -ourts of this state,"
dismissed a suit to recover money payable in Confedertate
notes, basing its judgment both upon that article of the Constitution and upon adjudications in that state before its adoption, this court, spealkng by Mfr. Justice Swayne, dismissed

OGTOB1-R TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

a writ of error, and said "The result in this ase would have
been necessarily the same if the Constitution had not contained
the provision in question. This brings the case within the
authority of Bethde v. Demcret," above cited. In another case
at the same termn the disposition by this court of the case
of Bank of 1est Tennessee v. Citizeme Bank of .Iouistana

was thus explamed by Mr. Justice Miller: "As it was apparent
from the record that the judgment of the court of original
jurisdiction was iendered before that article was adopted, we
could not entertain jurisdiction when the decision in that particular point was placed on a ground which existed as a fact
and was beyond -our control, and was sufficient to support the
judgment, because another reason was given which, if it had
been the only one, we could review and might reverse."
De2;mas v. Insu'nce Co., 14 Wall. 661, 666. In Ddms v.
_Tnszwrance Co. just cited, where the judgment of the lonisiana
court was put wholly upon that article of the Constitution,
this court therefore took jurisdiction, and reversed the judgment, but said that whdre a decision of the highest court of a
State, "whether holding such contract valid or -void, is made
upon the general principles by which courts determine whether
a consideration is good or bad on principles of public policy,
the decision is one we are not authorized to review." And in
Taver v. Zeach,, 15 Wall. 67, as well as in Dugger v. Bocock,
104 U. S. 596, 601, the proposition thus stated was affirmed,
and was acted on by dismissing a writ of error to a State court.
So m tewn8om v. TFilMlarmn, 19 Wall. 572, where a judgment
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, annulling a judgment of a
lower court, on the ground that the promissory notes on which
it was rendered bad been given for a loan of Confederate
money, was brought here by writ of error, this court, spealng
by Mr. Justice Field, after disposing of a distinct federal question, and observing that the aforesaid ground would not be
deemed, in a federal court, sufficient to set aside the judgment,
said "But the ruling of the State court, in these particulars,
however erroneous, is not subject to review by us. It presents
no federal question for our examination. It conflicts with no
part of the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States.

N. 0. WATERWORKS v. LA. SUGAR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Had the State court refused to -uphold the judgment because
of the provision in the Constitution of the State, subsequently
adopted, prohibiting .the enforcement of contracts founded
upon Confederate money, a lederal question would have been
presented. -That provisibn, however, does not appear to have
caused the ruling." 19 Wall. 576, 577. Those cases clearly
establish that, on a writ of error to a State court, thns court
had jurisdiction to review and .reverse the judgment, if that
judgment was based wholly upon the State Constitution; but
that if it was based on the previous law of the State, this court
had no jurisdiction to review it, 6lthough the view taken by
the State court was adverse to the view taken by this court in
earlier and later cases coming up from a Circuit Court of the
United States.
In actions bxought upon promissor notes .given for the
purchase of slaves before the war, .the same distinction has
been maintained. The Constitutions adopted in 1868, by the
States of Arkansas, Georgia and Louisiana respectively, provided that the courts of the State should not enforce any
contract for the purchase or sale of slaves. In Osbom v.
NichoZson, 13 Wall. 65&, a judgment Tendered for the defendant by the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Arkansas, in an actioli on a promissory note for the purchase of a slave, was reversed, because this court was of -opmion that the contract was valid at the time when it was made,
and therefore its obligation was impaired by the subsequent
constitution. For like reasons, this court, in, ll/ite v. Hart,
16 Wall. 646, reversed a similar judgment rendered by the
Supreme Court of the State of Georgia, and based upon the
provision of its constitution. But in Pamer v. .faerstm, 14
Wall. 10, where the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in a similar
action, had placed its judgment for the defendant upon the
law of the State, as established and acted upon before the
adoption cf the Codnstitution of 1868 and since adhered to, and
had declined to pass upon the question whether the provision
of that constitution was valid or invalid as an act of legislation and in relation to the article of the Constitution of the
United States against impairing the obligation of contracts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

because it was unnec'essary and could have no practical intlu.
ence upon the result, tns court dismissed a writ of. error, for
want of jurisdiction, saying- "It thus appears that the provision of the State constitution upon the subject of slave contracts was m no wise drawn in question. The decision was
governed by the settled principles of the jurisprudence of the
State. In such cases this court has no power of .review"
"Substantially the same question arose in Bank of Mest
Tennessee v. M izeBWank of louszcna, heretofore decided.
The writ of error was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The
same disposition must be made in this case."
These cases are quite in harmony with the line of cases,
beginning before these were decided, in which, on a writ of
error upon a judgment of the highest court of a State, giving
effect to a statute of the State, drawn in question as affecting
the obligation of a previous contract, tins court, exercising its
paramount authority of determining whether the statute upheld by the State court did impair the obligation of the previous contract, is not concluded by the opinion of the State
court as to the validity or the construction of that contract,
even if contained in a statute 6f the State, but determines for
itself what that contract was. Leading cases of that class are
Bi-idge Proprietorsv. _roboke Co., 1 Wall. 116, in which the
State court affirmed the validity of a statute authorizing a
railway viaduct to be built across a iver, which was drawn
in question as impairing the obligation of a contract, previously made by the State with the proprietors of a bridge,
that no other bridge should be built across the river; and
cases in which the State court affirmed the validity of a
statute, imposing taxes upon a corporation, and drawn in
question as impairing the obligation of a contract in a previous statute exempting it from such taxation. State Bank v.
IYnoop, 16 How 369, Ohzo ffe Ins. &6 Trust Co. v. .Debolt,
16 How. 416, .rechantcs d- Traders Bank v. -Debolt, 18
How 380, JTeferson Branch, Bank'v
1 Black, 436,
ISdlly,
Iew rersetj v YFard, 95 U. S. 10-1, .frenphes & Charleston.
Railroadv. Ga nes, 97 U. S. 697, '09, Universityv. Peop,
99 U. S. 309, Louisville &O ashville Railroad v. Palmes,

-

N. 0. W TERWORKS v. LA. SUGAR CO.
Opinon of the Court.

109 U. S. 244.; )Memphis Gas Co. v. Shelby County, 109 U. S.
398; i c7sbwrg &c. 1ailroad v. Dennw, 116 U. S. 665. In
each of those cases, the State court upheld a right claimed
under the later statute, and could not have made the decision
that it did without upholding that right; and thus gave effect
to the law of the State drawn in question as impairing the
obligation of a contract.
The distinction between the two classes of cases-those in
wuch the State court has, and those in which it has not,.given
effect to the stathte drawn in question as impairing the obligation of a contract - as affecting the consideration by this court,
on -writ of error, of the true construction and effect of the
previous contract, is clearly brought out in Eenneoe Railroad
v. PortlandRail'oad,14 Wall. 23. That was a writ of error
to the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine, in which a foreclrsure, under a statute of 1857, of a railroad mortgage made in
1852, was contested upon the ground that it impaired the
obligation of the contract, and the parties agreed that the
opinion -of that court should be considered as part of the
record. Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering judgment, after
stating that it did appear that the question whether the
statute of 1857 impaired the obligation of the mortgage contract "was discussed in the opinion of the court, and that the
court was of the opinion that the statute did not impair the obligation of the contract," said: "If this were all of the case, we
should undoubtedly be bound in this court to inquire whether
the act of 1857 did, as construed by that court, impair the obligation of the contract. Bridge Propzetors v. H1o3oken C'o., 1
Wall 116. But a full examination of the opinion of the court
shows that its judgment was based upon the ground that the
foreclosure was valid, without reference to the statute of 1857,
because the method pursued was in strict conformity to the
mode of foreclosure authorized, when the contract was made, by
the laws then in existence. Now, if the State court was right in
their view of the Jaw as it stood when the contract was made,
it is obvious that the mere fact that a new law was made does
not impair the obligation of the contract. And it is also clear
that we cannot inquire whether the Supreme Court of Maine

OCTOEBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

was right in that opinion. Here is, therefore, a clear case of
a sufficiept ground on which the validity of the decree of the
State court could rest, even if it had been in error as to the
effect of the act of 1857 in impairing the obligation of the contract. And when there is such distinct and sufficient ground
for the support of the judgment of the State court, we cannot
take jurisdiction, because we could not reverse the case, though
the federal question was decided erroneously m the court
below against the plaintiff in error. Remtor v. _As&dk, 6 Wall.
142; Elinger v. .Aissouri, 13 Wall..257; Steines v. 'anklin
County,. 1 Wall. 15. The writ of error must therefore be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction." 14 Wall. 25, 26.
The result of the authorities, applying to cases of contracts
the settled rules, that in order to give this courtrjurisdiction of
a writ of error to a State court, a federal question must have
been, expressly or in effect, decided by that court, and, therefore, that when the record shows that a federal question and
another question were presented to that court and its decision
turned-on the other question only, this court has no iarisdic:
tion, may be summed up as follows: When the State court
decides against a right claimed under a contract, and there
was no law subsequent to the contract, this court clearly has
no jurisdiction. When the existence and the construction of a
contract are undisputed, and the State court upholds a subsequent law, on the ground that it did not impair the obligation
of the admitted contract, it is equally clear that this court has
jurisdiction. When the State court. holds that there was a contract conferring certain rights, and that a subsequent law did
not impair those rights,.this court has jurisdiction to consider
the true construction of the supposed contract, and, if it is of
opinion that it did not confer the rights affirmed by the State
court, aiid therefore its obligation was not impaired by the
subsequent law, may on that ground affirm the judgment.
So, when the State court upholds the subsequent law,
on the ground that the contract..did not confer the right
claimed, this court may inquire whether the supposed contract did give the right, because, if it did, the subsequent
law cannot be upheld. But when the State court gives no

KREIGER v. SHELBY RAILROAD CO.
Syllabus.

effect to the subsequent law, but decides, on grounds independent of that law, that the right claimed was not conferred by
the contract, the case stands just as if the subsequent law had
not been passed, and this court has no jurisdiction.
In the present case, the Supreme Court of Louisiana did
not, and the plaintiff m error does not pretend that it did,.
give any effect to the provision of the Constitution of 1879
abolishing monopolies. Its judgment was based wholly upon
the general law of the State, and upon the construction and
effect of the charter from the legislature to the plaintiff company, and of the license from the city council to the defendant
company, and in no degree upon the Constitution or any law
of the State subsequent to the plaintiff's charter. The case
cannot be distinguished in principle from the cases above cited,
in which writs of error to State courts have been dismissed for
want of jurisdiction. As was said in .Banko of "Fesi Tennessee
v. Citizens' Banke of Iouisiana, above cited, "The result in
this case would have"been necessarily the same if the Constitution had not contained the provision in question."
-lJrtof errordini sedfor. ont of jurtdiction.

:KREIGER v. SHELBY RAILROAD COMPANY and
Others.
SAME and Others v. SAME and Others.
SAM and Another v. SAME and Others.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF TEE STATE OF
Noe. 948, 949, 950. Submitted December 12,18S. -Decided

7NTO17

.

March 19, 1888.

Upon a writ of error to the highest court of a State, under Rev. Stat. § 709,
the opinion of that court, recorded as required by the statutes of the
State, may be examined by this court to ascertain the ground of the
3udg-ment.
Statutes of a State authorized a district in a county, defined by exact boundaries, to determine by the vote of its libhabitants to subscribe for stock

