OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

that the same together constitute the transcript on appeal to
the Supreme Court of the Unitea States in said cause," such
certificate being entitled in the present cause, it was perfectly
competent for the'plaintiffs to have brought before this court,

and it was their duty. to have done so, by certiorari, any
necessary parts of the record which the .defendants had.
omitted to bring before us.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Reversed, nd the case is rema ded to te Circuit Courtfor
th~e Yo?,the~m 1)tanct of CaZlforrua, .itki a dire7,ion to
di sms the bill, with costs.

FRTIDENSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHE RI DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 178. Argued February 10, 185.-Detded March 19, 1888.

In a suit za rem against certain diamonds seized as forfeited for a violation
of the customs revenue laws, it was competent for the United States to
give in evidence the declarations of S.. not the claimant, who was
intrusted by the latter with the custody of the diamonds for sale, such
declarations having been made to a customs officer who took the dinonds
from a person with whom S. had deposited them, and in the course of
an investigation by the officer to determine whether he should seize them,
and having been part of the res gestM.
It was also competent for the officer to testify that he did not seize the
diamonds till after the declarations were made.
The jury having found, in compliance with § 16 of the act of June 22, 1874,
e. 391, 18 Stat. 189, that the acts complained of in the information were
done with intent to defraud the United States, and no motion to dismiss
the cause for any defect in the information, and no motion in arrest of
judgment, having been made, any such defect which could have been*
availed of by demurrer. or exception. or motion to disniiss at the trial,
made on the ground of such defect. or motion In arrest of judgment,
must be regarded as haing been waived or as having been cured by the
verdict.
An information under the revenue laws for the forfeiture of goods. which
seeks no judgment of ine or imprisonment against any person, ',-, civil

action.

FRIEDENSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
Yet it is so far-i the nature of a cnrmnql proceeding that a general verdict
on several counts in the Information Is upheld if one count is good.
Where the sections of the Revised Statutes on which the counts of the
information are founded do not prescribe any intent to defraud as an
element of the forfeitures they denounce, said § 16 does not make It
necessary, in an information filed since its.enaetment, to aver that the
alleged acts were done with an actual Intention .to defraud the United
States.
It is not necessary that the 3udgment should recite the finding by the jury
that the acts complained of in the information were done with intent to
defraud the United States.

Ix nmr, for the forfeiture
of customs revenue laws.
District Court, which was
Claimant sued out this writ

of diamonds seized for a violation
Decree of condemnation in the
affirmed 'by the Circuit Court.
of error.

-Mr&. .Mwin B. Smit&for plaintiff in error. -r.
Wfalack was with hin on the brief.

ZeopolZ

.A&. Solicitor General for defendant in error.
MMl..JUsTrOD BL.ATCHFOrD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the United States, in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of N~ew
York, to condemn 43 diamonds, seized as forfeited under the
customs revenue laws. The information contains five counts.
The first count is based on §§ 2872 and 2874 of the Revised
Statutes, and alleges that the goods were brought in a vessel,
, a foreign port or place, and were,
name unknown, from , 1882, unladen and delivered from
day of on the such vessel within the port and collection district of the city
of lew York, without a permit from the collector and naval
officer for such unlading or delivery, contrary to those twe
sections, and that the value of the goods, according to the
highest market price of the same at the said port and district.
amounts to $400.
The second count is based on § 3066, and avers that the
collector, having cause to suspect a concealment of goods in
YOL. cx V-15

OCTOBEIR TERM,

1887.

Opimon of the Court.

the building No. 66 Nassau Street, in the city of 1,ew York,
did, on the 27th of F ebruary, 1883, with due warrant therefor,
enter the said building, in the daytime, and there search for
such goods, and did then and there- find the same concealed,

and did seize and secure the same for trial, and that the duties
had not been paid or secured to be paid thereon, contrary to
said section.
The third count is based on § 2802, alid avers that the said
goods, being articles subject to duty, were, on ihe 27th of
February, 1883, found in the baggage of a person arriving
in the 'United States, and were not, at the time of making
entry for such baggage, mentioned to the collector before
whom such entry was made by the person making the same,
contrary to said section.
The fourth count is based on § 2809, and avers that the said
goods were, on the day of
one thousand eight
:hundred and , imported into the United States in the
vessel, name unknown, belonging in whole or in part to a
citizen or citizens, inhabitant or inhabitants of the United
States, from a foreign port or place, and were not included
in the manifest, and belonged or were consigned to the master,
mate, officers, and crew of such vessel, contrary to said section.
The fifth count is based on § 3082, and avers that on or
about the day of
, 'one thousand eight hundred
and , an-unknown person did fraudulently and knowingly
import and bring into the United States, and assist, in so doing,
the said goods, contrary to law, and did receive, conceal, buy,
sell, and m some manner facilitate the transportation, concealment, and sale of such goods after their importation, knowing
the same to have been imported contrary.to law, contrary to
said section.
One Augusta Friedenstein put m a claim to the goods as
owner, and answered the information, denying the forfeiture.
The case was tried by a jury in the District Court, which
rendered "a verdict for the informants and against the claimant for the condemnation of the goods mentioned in the
information, and that the acts complained of therein were
done with intent to defraud the United States." A decree of
-,

FRIEDENSTEIN v. UNITED STAT.'ES
Opinion of the Court.

condemnation was entered thereon, and the claimant took the
case by writ of error to the Circuit Court, wich aflirmed the
decree of the District Court and remanded the case thereto
for execution of the decree. The claimant has brought the
case to this court by a writ of error.
The bill of exceptions shows the following state of facts in
regard to the seizure of the goods: On the 27th of February,
1883, one Brackett, a special agent of the Treasury Department, went with two subordinates to the store of Goldsmith
& Kuhn, :No. 66 Nassau Street, where they found a man and

a woman and the package of diamonds. The woman was a
M:rs. Sussman. When Brackett reached the store, the diamonds were in'the possession of Goldsmith & Kuhn. They
told Brackett that Mfrs. Sussman had handed the diamonds
to them. 1r. Kuhn, who was behind the counter, had the
package and handed it .to Brackett upon his demand for-it.
Brackett took it, and requested Mrs. Sussman to accompany
him to the custom-house, as he wished to make some inquiries
about the diamonds. He took them to the custom-house, MTXs.
Sussman accompanying him. In answer to a question put to
Brackett by the counsel for the claimant, on his examination
as a witness, as to when he took the diamonds, he said: "I
took them at the store and took her' down to the customhouse with them. If her explanation was satisfactory I did
not intend to seize them." The package was opened at the
custom-house, and the diamonds were examined and appraised,
and were then placed in the hands of the officer in.charge of
the seizure room at the custom-house. Brackett was then
asked by the district attorney: "When -and where did you
make the seizure of these diamonds?." To this questibn the
claimant objected, as calling for a conclusion of law; but the
court overTuled the objection, and the claimant, excepted.
The witness i lied: "The seizure of the diamonds was made
at the custom-house in this city after I was through with my
investigation."
It appeared that after Brackett and Mrs. Sussman arrived
at the custom-house, and before the package was there opened,
a conversation took place there between him and her. The
bill of exceptions says:

OCTOBER TERM,,

'1887.

Opinion of the Court.

"The witness Braokett was recalled, and asked this question
by the districtattorney- I'Now state the conversation between
Mrs. Sussman and yourself which occurred prior to the actual
seizure of those diamonds m the custom-house, and on the
same day when she went m company with you to the customhouse with the diamonds.'
"The clainant objected to this question, becau- ,irs.
Sussman's statement, under the circumstances and .at th t time,
could not affect the claimant; also, because the question involved a, conclusion of law as to the time when Iactual seizure' took place. The court overruled the objection, admitting
the question, and the claimant excepted.
"The witness Brackett, in reply to this inquiry, testified as
follows: ' Well, I asked MNrs. Sussman f rom whom she got the
diamonds. She said they belonged to another party, but she
could not give the name of the party, neither would she give
her own proper name. I told her, IIf you can give a satisfactory explanation, and if these goods have been brought into
the port properly, and duties paid, the United States government don't want them; why do you object?' 'Well,' she
says, 'I can't mention the name of the lady to whom these
stones belong.' Well, she finally said to me, after some
twenty minutes, perhaps, of conversation- there were two
other parties in the room, M]fr. .chUn sitting outside, and the
door open- she said, 'I would like to see'you in private.'
' Wel,' said I ' these are my offices here; this is all private these offices.' I1o,' said she, I I want to speak to you alone.'
Well, I went into the adjoining room -with her, and she then
said to me, ' These diamonds belong to a. lady, as I said before,
whose name I won't give. The duty has not been paid on
these diamonds. I am ready to go now lefore the collector
and make arrangements to have the duties paid.! 'Well,' said
I, 'I cannot do that, madam.' 'Well,' she says, 'I am ready;
it can't be over $400.' I then went back to the room and told
her that I could not make any such arrangement with her as
that; the diamonds were, then [not?] under seizure; then I
made up my mind to seize them after this conversation. She
said the duty would not be over $400; she was ready to go

FRIEDENSTIN- v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

before.the collector and make arrangements to pay that duty.'
The witness also testified that he sent for Gen. Palmer, and
that Mrs. Sussman reiterated to Gen. Palmer what she had
said to him, the witness.
"To further sustain the issues the government then called
George W. Palmer, who, after testifying that he was the
depftb collector in charge of the seventh division or law departnent 6f the custom-house, proceeded, under the objection
of claimant's counsel, -which objection was overruled and an
exception to such ruling dhly taken, to give in detail a conversation which he bad with Mrs. - Sussman at that time, of a
similar nature to that testified to by Captain Brackett.
"It was also proved for the govermuent, and acknowledged
by Mrs. Sussman, when on the stand on behalf of the claimant,
that she, M rs. Sussman, had been to Europe and had returned
from thence and landed at the port, of New York in the latter
part of August, 1882."
The ground urged against the admissibility of the conversation with Mrs. Sussman is that, she not being the owner of the
diamonds, evidence as to her declarations was not admissible
in derogation of the title to them, especially because such
declarations were made after she had ceased to have the custbdy of them; and that it was error to permit Brackett to
swear that, although he took physical possession of the property at 66 Nassau Street, before the conversation with Mrs.
Sussman, he did not make the actual seizure until he madeit
at the custom-house, after the conversation with Mrs. Sussman.
But we see no objection to the evidence. It isplain, on the
testimony, that the goods were not seized for forfeiture until
after the conve'sation, and that the seizure took place at the
custom-house, after the investigation and examination there,
and did not take place at 66 Nassau Street. See Four Tackages v. United States, 97 U. S. 40-, 411. The second count
of the information does not allege that the seizure took place
at 66 Nassau Street. Its fair import is that the collector, with
a warrant, entered those premises and searched for the goods
and there found them, and that he afterwards seized and
secured them for trial.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

Mrs. Sussman, as appears from other evidence in the bill of
exceptions, had carried the diamonds to the store of Goldsmith
& Kuhn for the purpose of selling them to that firm. If they
really belonged to the claimant, they had been put by her into
the custody of Mrs. -Sussman, for the purpose of selling them.
Under these circumstances, Mrs. Sussman's declarations to
Brackett, in regard to the goods, while he was making an official investigation and examination as to whether they should
be seized for forfeiture, were part of the res gestw, and admissible in evidence as against the person claiming to be the owner
of the goods, in a suit in rem for their forfeiture. It was
competent for the claimant to contradict the facts stated to
Brackett by Mirs. Sussman, in regard to the diamonds; but the
minutes of the trial show that, although Mrs. Sussman was
examined as a, witness for the claimant, the 6laimant herself
did not testify as a witness.
We see no objection to the evidence shown by the bill of
exceptions to have been admitted under the exceptions of the
claimant.
The claimant raises a point as'to the sufficiency of the information. The record shows a full compliance with the statute
in regard to the finding by the jury that the acts complained
of in the information were done with intent to defraud the
United States. It does not show that any motion in arrest of
judgment was made, nor that any motion was made on the
part of the claimant to dismiss the cause for any defect in the
information. It is stated in the minutes of trial, wilch are
contained in a paper aside from the bill of exceptions and
forming no part of it, that, after the evidence for the United
States had been put in, the counsel for the claimant moved to
dismiss th6 case, and the motion was denied, but it is not
stated on what ground the motion was made. Under these
circumstances, any defect in the information which could have
been availed of by demurrer, or by exception, or by a motion
to dismiss at the trial, made on the ground of such defect, or
by a motion in arrest of judgment, must be regarded as having
been walved. or as having been cured by the verdict. Coffey
v. Un7ited Sat, 116 U. S. 436.

FRIEDENSTEIN. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Among the objections covered by the above observations
are those to the first count, that it does not name any vessel,
that it does not name the foreign port or place or state that
its name was unknown, that it does not state any day or month
of tho unlading, and that it does not state that there was then
a naval officer at the port of nlading; that to the second
count, that it does not allege that the'goods were dutiable or'
imported; those to the third count, that it does not name the
person arriving in the.United States, nor allege that his namn
was ulmown, nor when he arrived, nor at what port he ar-

rived, nor who was the collector, nor that these thingr were
unknown, nor, affirmatively, that any entry was made of the
baggage in which the goods were found; those to. the fourth
count, that it avers no day, month, or year, no port, domestic
or foreign, no vessel, no owner, no consignee, and does not
affirmatively state the existence of any manifest in which the
goods should have been included; those to the fifth count, that
it does not name time, place, person, or circumstance in regard
to the importation, that it is bad for. duplicity, because the
Inportation is distinct from. the subsequent dealing with the
imported goods, and that it does no.t state what the illegality
was in the importation.
This is a civil cause. In Snyder v. United States, 1121U. S.
216, it is said that informations under the revenue laws for the
forfeiture of goods, seeking no judgment of fine or imprisonment, against any person, are civil actions, although so far in.
the nature of criminal proceedings that a general verdict on
several counts in an information is upheld if one count is good.
This latter rule was also applied in Iocke v. United Btates, '
Oranch, 339, in Clifton v. United States, 4: How 242, 250; and
in C'ofey v. United States, 116 U. S. 427, 433, 431, 436, 442.
In The Pal.myra, 12 Wheat. 1, 12, it is said that informations of seizure for forfeitures "are deemed to be civil proceedings in rern;" and the existefce of ]Rule 22 of the Rules of
Practice adopted by tins court for the courts of the United
States, in admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, on the instance
side of the court, prescribing the contents of informations on
seizures for a breach of the laws of the United States, shows

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

that such seizure cases are regarded as civil suits. The
authority to make the Rule was conferred by § 6 of the act of
August 23, 184:2, c. 188, 5 Stat.. 518, which relates wholly to
the malkng of rules in suits at common law and in admiralty
and equity. The case of UndtZ Owtes v. TAree Patels of
.rnbrodery, 3 Ware, 15, relied on by the plaintiff in error, is
distinguishable from the present case. There the statute
required, in order to forfeit goods, that they should not have
been invoiced according to their actual cost, and that that
should have occurred with a, design to evade the duties
thereon, and it was held, on a motion in arrest of judgment,
that an information was bad which only alleged the making
of an entry with a design to evade the duties, and did -not
allege the making of a false invoice with such design.
Section 954 of the Revised Statutes, which was always m
force as § 32 of the act of -September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat.
91, proVides, that no judgment or other proceedings in civil
caises, in any court of the United States, shall be arrested or
reversed for any defect or want of form, but such court shall
proceed and give judgment according as the right of the cause
and matter in Ia shall appear to it, without regarding any
such defect or want of form, except those which, in cases of
demurrer, the party demurring specially sets down, together
with his demurrer, as the .cause thereof. This statutory pro
vision applies to many of the objections urged to the information in the present case. These and the other'objections
mentioned were"not taken in the court below by demuirer or
exception or motion in arrest of judgment, and there has been
a verdict of condemnation. As was said in Lineoln. v. Iron'
a'., 103 U. S. 412, 415, if the issue joined be such as necessarily required on the tfial -proof of the .facts defectively stated
or onitted, and without which it is not to be presumed that
the judge woild have directed the jury to give the verdict,
such defect or omissionris cured. See, also, Stockton v. Bishop,
4 How. 155, 161.
There is, however, one objection made to the information
which it is proper to notice, as the question is an inportant
one, and arises now for the first time in this couit. It is pro-

FRIEDENSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

vided as follows by § 16 of the act of June 22, 1874, c. 391,
(18 Stat. 189): "That in all actions, suits, and proceedings in
any court of the United States, now pending, or hereafter
commenced or prosecuted, to enforce or declare the forfeiture
of any goods, wares, or merchandise, or to recover the value
thereof, or any other sum alleged to be forfeited by reason of
any violation of the provisions of the customs revenue laws,
or any of such provisions, .m which action, suit, or proceeding,
an issue or issues of fact shall have been joined, it shall be the
duty of the court, on the trial thereof, to submit to the jury
as a distinct and separate proposition, whether the alleged acts
were done with an actual intention to defraud the United
States, and to require, upon such proposition, a special finding
by such jury; or, if such issues be tried by the court without
a jury, it shall be the duty of the court,.to pass upon and
decide such proposition as a distinct and separa'te finding of
fact; and in such cases, unless intent to defraud shall be so
found, no fine, penalky, or forfeiture shall be imposed."
It is contended by the claimant, that it is necessary to aver,
in an, information filed since that statute, that the alleged acts
were done with an actual intention to defraud the United
States; and that, as no such averment is found in the information in this case, the judgment cannot be supported. But we
are of bpinion that such aierment is not necessary The section relates only to the duty of the court, on a trial by a jury
or a trial without a jury, to require or make a special and separate finding as to the actual intention to defraud the United
States. This is to be done in every suit of the character specified in the section, in which "an issue or issues of fact shall
have been joined;" and the provision applies to suits then
pending as well as to those thereafter to be commenced. The
fair meaning of the section is that the issue or issues of fact
shall have been. framed, or shall be framed, in the usual manner theretofore in use. 1o one of The sections on which the
counts of this information are founded prescribes any intent to
defraud as an element of the forfeiture denounced'in it; and,
if § 16 of the act of 1874 is complied with, as it was in this
case, at the trial of the cause before the jury, that is all that

OCTOBER TERMt,

1887.

Opinion of the Court-

is required. We do not concur in the view taken in United
&ates v. Ninety .Demijohns of Rum, 4 Woods, 637, so far as
such view conflicts with our opinion herein.
Besides, with the knowledge on the part of the claimant and

her counsel of the necessity that the United States should prove
on the trial that the alleged acts were done with an actual intention to defraud the United States, and that the jury should
so find, or no forfeiture could be imposed, it is impossible for
the claimant to allege that she did not come to the trial with
the understanding that such actual intention was matter to
which proof, on the trial, was to be addressed, although there
was no allegation to that effect in the information.
It is also objected, that the judgment of the District Oourt
recites, as its basis, only the verdict of the jury, that it found
for the United States, condemning the goods, and that it -does
not recite the finding by the jury that the acts complained of
in the information were done with intent to defraud the United
States. But we think that this was not necessary. As it appears by the minutes of the trial, that the jury made the finding of the intent to defraud required by the 16th section of the
act of 1874, as a necessary condition precedent to the imposition of the forfeiture, -the judgment of forfeiture is justified.
The verdict was a general one, for the informants and against
the claimant, for the condemnation of the goods mentioned in
the information, and is supported, if -ny count of the information is good, against the objections now made. Mlifion v.
United States, 4 How 2412, 250; 8nyder v. United States, 112
UT. S. 216; Cofey v. United States, 116 U. S. 427, 433, 486,
442. The bill of exceptions does nof state that it sets forth.
all the testimony given on the trial, and the names of witnesses
on both sides are given in the minutes of the trial as having
been sworn whose testimony does not appear in the bill of exceptions. There is nothing to show fhat any motion -wasmade
b. the claimant that the government should elect on which of
the Jfive counts it claimed a verdict. The third count alleges
that the diamonds were articles subject to duty, and is a
good count.
On the whole case, we see no error in the record, and
The decree of the Circuit Caourt is afmed.

FRIEDENSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, Harlan, J.

Mm. JUsTIcE FIELD;
LAw,

with whom concurred AI. JUSTICE

R -

dissenting.

I am not able to concur m the judgment of the court in this
case. The proceeding is a libel of information for the forfeiture
of forty-three diamonds by reason of alleged violations of provisions of the customs revenue statute. The several acts for
which a forfeiture is sought are not alleged to have been committed with any actual intent to defraud the United States,
and yet .the statute of June 22, 18741, declares that in all
actions, suits, and proceedings then pending or thereafter
commenced to enforce the forfeiture of any goods, wares, or
merchandise, or to recover the value thereof, or any other sum.
alleged to be forfeited, by reasob of any violation of the provisions of the customs revenue laws, in which issues have been
joined, "it shall be the duty of the court, on the trial thereof,
to submit to the jury, as a distinct and separate proposition,
whether the alleged acts were done with an actual intention
to defraud the United States, and to require upon such proposition a special finding by such jury, or if such issues be tried
by the court without a jury, it shall be the duty of the court
to pass upon and decide such proposition as a distinct and
separate finding of fact; and in such cases, unless intent to
defraud shall be so found, no fine, penalty, or forfeiture shall
be imposed." 18 Stat. 189, c. 391, § 16.
The statute thus makes the actual intent to defraud the gist
of the offence, and an essential element of it, without proof of
which no forfeiture can be adjudged. What must be found
ought, according to well settled rules of pleading, to be
averred. In every suit for penalties or forfeitures what must
be proved to entitle the complaining party to judgment against
either person or property must be averred in the libel, and its
omission will not be cured by any verdict in the case. Defects
in matters of substance are not thus cured. United States -%
iHss, 124 U. S. 483. It may be that libels of information for
the forfeiture of goods do not requiir't-such fulness and particularity of averment as an information for the punishment of a
criminal offence, but there is no decision, or even dictum, I have

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion.

Field, Harian,.3'3r

been able to find, that an entire omission of all averment, as
to the essential fact to be established, to justify a forfeiture
or conviction, is not fatal. If any different rule has prevailed
in any portions o.F
the country, I do not think it should be sustamed. This singular result would follow: that a defendant
or claimant, admitting all the allegations of the libel, would
escape forfeiture or punishment, for Without proof of something not alleged, neither could be imposed.
In the case of .76 Hopet, decided as far back as 1813, 7
Crauch, 388. 394, a libel of information was held insufficient
which contained a general reference to the provisions of the
statute alleged to have been violated. Axd the court, speaking by Chief Justice Hfarshafl, said that "a rule so essential to
justice and fair proceeding as that which requires a substantial
statement of the offence upon which the prosecution is founded,
must be the rule of every court where justice is the object, and
cannot be satisfied by a general reference to the provisions
of a statute." It was accordingly held in that case that, the
information being defective in that respect, the defect was
not cured by evidence of the facts omitted to be averred, thecourt stating that "the accusation on which the prosecution is
founded should state the crime which is to be proved and
state such a crime as will justify the judgment to be pronounced. The reasons for this rule are- 1st. That the party
accused may know against what charge to direct his defence.
2d. That the court may see with judicial eyes fhat the fact
alleged to have'been committed is an offence against the laws,
and may also discern the punishment annexed by law to
the specific offence. These reasons apply to prosecutions in
courts of admiralty with as much force as to prosecutions in
other courts. It is therefore a -maxim of the civil law that a
decree must be seoundum aeeata as well as secztil
pro;ata. It would seem to be a maxim essential to the due administration of justice in .all courts."
In the U ikied &Satesv. Three Parcels of .E,7rozd-ry, 3
Ware, 75, it was held that the omission in a libel of information for the forfeiture of those art'-les for violation of the 66th
section of the Collection Act of 1799, 1 Stat. c. 22, p. 627, to

FRIEDENSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
Disse'ating Opinion: Field, Harlan, 33.

allege that the goods were falsely invoiced with a design to
evade the duties was a fatal defect in the proceeding, and was
not cured by the verdict of the jry. In considering, the
omission in that case in arrest of the judgment on the grouna
that the offence was not set out in the infofmation with that
clearness and distinctness which is required by the rules of
pleading and practice, the court said.: "It was long ago- held
by the Supreme Court that .an information to recover a penalty under the Collection Act of 1199 is in the nature of a
criminal proceeding. LockTe v; United S ateq,." Oranch, 339;
Clifton v. Urited States, 4 How. 242. The description of the
offence for which the penalty is demanded must have the same
kind and degree of certainty that is ordinarily required in
other criminal proceedings; and although it may be true, as
is argued by the District Attoraey, that in the practice of our
courts all that technical accuracy of description may not be
required, which is held to be essential in indictments, and even
in the exchequer -practice in England, and. that. niceties need
not be observed which rest on dry precedent, the reason of
which has either ceased zo exist or cannot now be discovered,
it is still indispensable that every circumstance constituting
the offence be clearly and distinctly set out in plain and direct
averments."
The language of the 66th section of the act of .1799,under
which the libel in that case was filed, declared "that if any
goods, wares, or merchandise, of which entry shall have been
made in the office of a collector, shall not be invoiced according to the actual cost thereof at the place of exportation; with
design to evade the duties thereupon', or any part thereof, all
such goods, wares, or-merchandise, or the value thereof, to be
recovered of the person making entry, shall be forfeited."
1 Stat. 67"7. And the court held that from this language
three facts must concur to complete the offence. First, an
entry must be made of the goods. Second, they must be
invoiced not according to their actual cost. Third, they must
be invoiced with a design to evade the duties thereupon, or
upon some part thereof. And that each of these facts' must
be found in order to entitle the plaintiffs to a verdict, and, all

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, Harlan, JJ.

of them being necessary to constitute the offence, each should
be plainly and distinctly charged in the information. It was
charged that the entry of the goods was made with a design
to evade the duties, but it was nowhere distinctly and plainly
charged that a false invoice was made with that design, and
the court said: "Under this section of the statute it appears
to me that this design in making the invoice is an essential
part of the offence. If it is so, the rules of pleading require
that it be distinctly alleged. If it be said that the jury, under
the direction of the court, found the fact, it is still true that,
by the strict rules of pleading in penal causes, the plaintiff can
recover only according to his allegation,. as well as his proofs,"
and the judgment was arrested. Tlus case, it is true, comes
from a District Court, and is therefore not a controlling
authority here, but the great learning of the District Judge,
and the ability which marked all his opinions, have deservedly
entitled them to, great weight and consideration in all the

federal courts; and the doctrine declared. is sustained by a
multitude of decisions.
Mlfuch stress is laid upon the fact that an information or
other proceeding for the forfeiture of goods for a violation of
provisions ot the customs revenue acts is in form a civil action;
but I do not perceive that this fact changes the necessity of
alleging, as well as proving, the material facts upon which
alone a forfeiture can, be adjudged. Though the same strict
ness in pleading is not requiid in civil as in criminal actions,
in-neither can that which is essential to be proved be omitted
toube averred. As Chief Justicer -arshall indicates in the quotation above, adherence to this rule would seeni to be essential
to the due administration of justice in all courts; and it may
be added, in all proceedings before them, civil or criminal, upon
which their judgment is asked.
In the recent case of B3oyd . United.,.Statae, 116 U. S. 616,
631, this court held "-that proceedings instituted fbr the purpose of declaring the forfeiture of a man's property by reason
of offences committed by him, though they may be civil in
form, are in their nature criminal."
lor do I perceive that the question of pleading is affected

FRIEDENSTEIN v. UNILTED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, JJ.

by the fact, that the statute, requiring the fraudulent intent
to be proved, applied as well to pending actious and proceedings as to such as might be subsequently commenced. That
fact, it istrue, night in some cases have compelled an amendment of the pleadings in pending actions and proceedings to
make their allegations embrace the essential element of the
offence for which the forfeiture was sought; and such an
amendment, where a fraudulent intent was not already alleged,
was, as I think, contemplated. I cannot believe that Congress
intended, by making the law applicable to pending cases, to
change a long and well-established rule of pleading, one founded
upon manifest principles of justice, so as to allow a conviction
of an offence upon which a forfeiture could be adjudged, without averring the fraudulent intent upon proof of which alone
such forfeiture could be claimed.
A jury should nor be allowed to find as to any material fact
not alleged. Evidence upon such a fact would be evidence
upon something- out of the case presented. Even in ordinary
civil cases such evidence is not admissible. :Mtuch more strictly
should the rule be enforced in penal cases like this one. In
.Dem.yokne of BUM, 4 Woods, 637,
U'nted States v. iney
639, the libel of information was for the forfeiture of those
goods for a iolation of provisions of the customs revenue law.
It made no allegation of actual intent to 'defraud the United'
States, and it was held that the libel was fatally defective.
Referring to § 16 of the act of June 22, 1874, IS Stat. c. 391,
186, 189, the court said: "I think it perfectly clear that this
section makes intent to defraud the United States a necessaxy
condition tor the forfeiture of uny goods, etc., for the violation
of the customs revenue laws. A libel of information, therefore, which undertakes to state a case 'for the forfeiture of
goods should aver an intent to defrand the United States.
Without such averment no case for forfeiture is made. The:
claimant might well decline to answer a libel in which su'ch
averment was wanting, trusting to the court to dismiss the libel
for want of necessary averments, when it came to hear the
tarte, and to adjudge -thereon as to law and jistice
case e~
should appertain.

. .

. The libel must set up all the facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

necessary to a forfeiture. If it 'fails to do this it is the duty
of the court to dismiss it, whether issue is joined or not."
Concurring fully in these views, I dissent from the judgment
of the court.
NMa,

JUsT= BRADLuv was not present at the argument of

this case, and took no part in its decision.

ORIGET v. UiNITED STATES.
EOR TO THE OMUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW 'YORK.
lNo. 186. Argued February 16, 188.-UDcldea March g9,
1885.

A paper headed "Bill of. Exceptions" not bearing the signature of the
judge, but containing at its foot these words, " Allowed and ordered on
ile November 22, '83, A. B.," the trial haviug taken place In June, 1883,

cannot be regarded as a bill of -exceptions, because not signed by the
judge, as required by § 953 of the Revised Statutes.
An information in a suit in ren against certhin nported goods seized as
forfeited for a violation of the customs revenue laws, alleged an entry
of the goods, which were subject to duties, with intent to defraud the
revenue by false and fraudulent invoices, by means whereof the United
States were deprived of the lawful duties accruing upon the goods embraced in the invoices. The answer of the claimant denied that the
goods became ,,
forfeited in manner and form as in said information Is
alleged " At the trial the -3uryrendered "a verdict for the informants,
and against the claimant for the condemnation of the goods mentioned
in the information, and that the goods were brought in with lnten to
defraud the United States." The decree set foith that the jury having
"by their verdict found for the United States, condemning the said
goods," they were "accordingly condemned as forfeited to the United
States:" Held,
(1) The verdict was a sufficient compliance with the requirement of § 16
of the act of June 22 1874, c. 391, (18..Stat. 189,) that, in order
to a forfeiture the jury should find that "the alleged acts.were
done with an actual intention to defraud the Upited States;"
(2) The judgment was sufflcient without reciting any special fi ding by
the jury as to an intent to defraud.

