BUOHER

. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Syllabus.

27atart of the decre of the Circuit yourt wkick awardq
the injuntiom is,therefore, reversed, and th case
re,
mnanded to that courtforfwrter proceedings
'
in conform-

ity to this qPinion.
ME. JusTio! BADLL-r was not present
this case and took no part in its decision.

at the argument of

BUCHER v. OFESHIRE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNqITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MtASSAOHUSETTS.
To.2. Argued Januaryn, 183.-Deelded

rch 19,21888.

The plaintiff sued the defendants in a state court and recovered judgment.
The highest appellate court of the State, reviewing the case decided the
points of law involved in it against the plaintiff, set aside the judgment
for error In the ruling of the court below, and sent the case back for a
new trial. The plaintiff then became nonsuit, and brought the present
suit in the Cir uit Court of the United States on the same cause of action.

Held,that he was not estopped.
The provision in Rev. Stat. § 721 that "the laws of the several States, except
where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision In trials at
common law in the courts of the Un'ted States in cases where they apply"
is not applicable to proceedings in equity,,or in admiralty, or to criminal
offences against the United State,.
The courts of the United States adopt and follow the decisions of the highest court of a State in questions which concern merely the constitution
or laws of that State; also where a course of those decisions, whether
foUnded on statutes or not, have become rules of property within the
State; also in regard to rules of evidence in actions atb law; and also in
reference to the common law of th; State, and its laws and customs of a
local character, when established by repeated decisions.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachussts having, in a cause between
the same parties litigating in this action, arising out of the transaction
herein litigated, and on the facts herein established, Med, (1) that.the
plantiff when injured by the negligence of the defendants" servants was
not travelling "for necessity or charity" within the meaning of those
terms as used in the General Statutes of Massachusetts, c. 81, § 2; (2)

that the provision in those statutes, c. 8-1, § 2, that whoever travels on

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
the Lord's Day except for necessity or cbaritysball be punished by a fine
not exceeding ten dollars Is a bar to recovery in an action against a railroad company by a person injured through the negligence of its servants
while travelling on its railroad on Sunday, not for necessity or charity;
and (3) that the act of the Massachusetts legislature of May 15, 1877, that
this prohibition against travelling on the Lord's Day shall not constitute
a defence to an action against a common carrier of passengers for any
tort or injury suffered by the person so travelling, does not apply to a
case happening before the passage of the act; eld, that these adjudications are sustained by a long line of numerous decisions, which establish
a local rule of law within the State of Massachusetts, binding upon this
court, though not meeting its approval.

Tis action was brought to recover damages for personal
injuries inflicted upon the plaintiff by reason of the joint tort
of the. defendants, while he was travelling in the State of
Massachusetts, as a passenger on a train operated by one of

threm. The defendants' plea was a general denial, and a further allegation "that if the plaintiff was travelling, as alleged
by him, and *hile travelling was inj3red, he was travelling on
a Sunday or Lord's IDay, and aot from necessity or charity,
and in violation of said law of said Commonwealth of Massa-chusetts, and that if he suffered any injury it arose from and
happened in consequence of his violation of said law."
There was a verdict for defendants, under instructions from
the court, and a judgment on the verdict, to review which
this writ of error-was sued out.
Before the commencement of this action, the plaintiff had
sued the defendants on the same cause of action in a state
court of fassachusetts. He obtained a judgment against
them in the court below, which was reversed by the Supreme
Judicial Court of the Commonwealth, Bcelr v. Fitohburg
_Rra'oad, 131 Mass. 156, and the case remanded for a new
trial. The plaintiff thereupon became nonsuit, and commenced
this action in the Circuit Court of the United States. The
case as presented in this court, is shown in the bill of exceptions, allowed by. the court below, as follows:
"This was an action of tort for damages alleged by plaintiff
to have been sustained by him through the negligence of the
defendants while he -was a passenger m the cars of said Fitch-

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.
burg Railroad Company. The writ, declaration, and all plead.
ings on file are referred to as a part of this bill of exceptions.
"Defendants are both common carriers of freight and pas,
sengers, the Fitchburg Railroad Company running trains from
North Adams, Mass., to Boston, and the Cheshire Railroad
Company from Fitchburg, Mass., to Keene,,N. B:., and thence
to Bellows Falls, Vt., both companies running on the same
track from Fitchburg to Ashburnham, Mfass. At the trial before the jury the plaintiff, a resident and citizen of Philadelphia, Penn., testified that at the time of the accident he was
the managing agent-of a fire insurance company, attending to
their business m New England; that on Saturday, Augutst 5,
1876, being in Rutland, Vt., he took passage and started on
the early morning railroad train of the Bennington & Rutland
railroad in course and en route for Boston, said train connecting with said Fitchburg railroad train at North Adams; that
the train was due and he expected and intended to reach Boston at 10.30 that evening; that this train reached North Bennington, Vt., a half hour too late to make connections for
Boston with the Troy & Boston railroad train which connected
with the state railroad run by the Fitchburg railroad at-lorth
Adams; that he then inquired of the ticket agent at that station what chance he had to get to Boiton that night; that
the ticket" agent glanced along the time-table on the wall and
said: "You can get to Boston at 7.22 in the morning by taking the express freight at North Adams," and advised him to
di'ive right over to Hoosac, a distance of about eight miles,
that plaintiff took a . carriage and did so, and there took a
mixed train, which carried hi to North Adams, where he
arrived about eleven o'clock that evening,, and was there told
by the conductor that the express freight started in about
twenty minutes, but he found that this tram also was delayed;
he waited around the station until the express freight backed
up and then got aboard, going into the caboose car with the
consent of the conductor, starting from lortlh Adams at about
one or two o'cbck Sunday morning; that there were other
passengers in the car; that he had a ticket, which he had
bought the previous week, entitling him to be carried over. the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Fitchburg Railroai Company's line from Iviller's Falls to Boston, and expected and was ready to pay his fare from Torth
Admuns to that place, the office at North Adams being closed
so that he could not buy a ticket ; that the train reached Ashburnham at about eight o'clock in the mormng, and about' a
half hour afterward, whilst rounding a sharp curve about six
miles from Fitchburg, collided with a train operated by the
.said Cheshire Railroad Company which was standing still upon
the said track used in common by both defendants from Ashburnham to Fitchburg; that the car in which plaintiff was
riding was telescoped, and he was seriously injured in Ins side
and about his head, having his arm and the'bones of his neck
fractured, occasioning a permanent disability, for which he
claimed damages to the amount of ten thousand (10,000)
dollaxs."
The Plamitiff also testified, in answer to questions put to
him by counsel on direct and cross-examination, as follows, viz:
"(By 11-a. CnI.x, plf's counsel:) Q. When you came down
to Bennington. and missed the Boston train why did you not
stay over.thcre? A. I wanted to reach Boston for a special
reason. Q. What was that? A. I had heard from my sister,
who was in Minnesota, stopping with an uncle, where I sent
her for her health a- year previous to that. I had a letter
from her that she was very ill, a'nd expressed in her letter that
she preferred to be brought homb to die. She had been feeble
for a number of years. Q. Were you supporting her at this
time? A. I was; yes. Q. Had you made any reply to the
letter she sent you? A. I wrote her back that if she could
prevail on my cousin-to bring her as far as Chicago I would
meet her there and bring her the rest'of the way; or if he
preferred to go clear througIh to Philadelphia I would be very
glad, because my business was such that it was disadvantageous to leave my field any longer than it was necessary. Q.
Had you informed your sifter where she could reach your by
mail? A. I had, and when. Q. Where was it? A. That I
would be in Boston on the first Saturday of August, and whatever was her wish I would carry out - either go to Chicago or
through to St. Paul if it were necessary. Q. That is, would*

BUCEHR

. CHESHRE RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

you go through to St. Paul after leaving Rutland in the morning? Do you mean you would have gone there if this letter
-had not stopped you in Boston? A. It is equivalent to that,
yes. Q. What time did you expect this letter from your sister
to reach Boston-to reach you in Boston? A. I expected it
to be there on the Saturday I was going. Q. Then, as I understand, if tns man could not accompany her East you were
going on after her and bring-her yourself? A. I would have
gone on Saturday night. Q. Was that letter brought to you
at any time? A. It came to me whilst I lay at the Roolstone
House, Fitchburg, on the Tuesday after the accident. Q.
Brought up by any person ? A. By MNr. M[errifield, the general agent of my company residing in Boston.
"1(By Mm So=, defendants' counsel :) Q. You say you expected a letter from her in Boston? A. Yes, sir. Q. What
is the date of the letter you wrote her? A. It may have
been about the 15th of the month or it may have .been later
than that date. I am rather inclined to the opinion that it
was the 20th of the moith. Q. The month of July? A.
The 20th of July. Q. You say you wrote your sister. You
have been examined beforn in this case in the Massachusetts
Supreme Court? A. Yes, sir. Q. Did not.you say before
the letter was received about the 15th of July? A. Yes, sir;
and I say-so now; about the 15th of July, but I think the
probabilities axe that it was the 20th or 21st, the reasonable
probabilities. Q. When did you receive the letter from her?
A. About that time. Q. A short time before you answered
it? A. Yes, sir. Q.. You answered -it the. 15th? A. 15th
to the 20tbf- Q. Have you had any occasion or reason why
you should change any part of your previous testimony? A.
No, sir; I don't, except to make the correction in that one important particular. Q. What is that? A. That I expected
that letter that Saturday in Boston, at the office of the general
agent. I as fully expected it as yesterday I expected.to be on
the ,witness stand to-day. Q. You expected 'to find a letter
from your sister, then? What made you expect-to find it then
more than any other Saturday? A. Because I had notified
her where to address me, and the time. Q. When did you

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

give her that notice? A. I gave her that notice perhaps as
now allude to the same
late as July 22d. Q. Is the letter you0
letter which you say was about the 15th? A. It is the same
letter, for I think it was likely the 20th or 22d. Q. Where
were you when you wrote that letter? A. I think that letter
was written from Concord, to the best of my recollectionOoncQrd, N. H. To the best of my recollection, I was at Concord the 21st, 22d, 23d, and 24th of July. Q. Are you testifying from memoranda you made? A. lNo; except in trying
to rehearse my field of operations to see where I" was and
ascertain as nearly as I can where I received th4 letter from
my sister.
,1(By MR. CLAnK:) Q. Something has been said about your
testifying, at the last trial of the case before the Massachusetts
Supreme Court, that you wrote the letter to your sister about
the 15th of July. When was the time of writing that letter
first called to your attention? A. When I was. asked the
question on the witness stand before said court. Q. When
you testified at the last trial before said court? A. Yes, sir.
Q. Was that the first time you had ever had your attention
called to it? A That was the first time. Q. You then stated
about the 15th of July? A. Yes, sir. Q. How long after
the accident was it when you testified-how many years?
A. Nearly three years. Q. Had your attention ever been
called in any way to the date of that letter until you were
testifymg? A. lNo; it had not. Q. Well, since then have
you refreshed your recollection in any way as to the time
when you wrote it? A. The b st I could within the past few
days. Q. How? A. By thinking over my routes of operations when out in the field of labor taking care of the interests
of my company, where I was lilkely to have been on such a
week and at such a week, and when I was likely to have received this letter and when I was likely to have answered it.
Q. On what day did you expect this letter to arrive in Boston?
A. Which letter do you now refer to? Q. The answer which
was to come back from your sister. Did you expect that the
answer from your sister would arrive before the 5th day .of
August, upon Saturday? A. I directed her to write me at Bos-

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.

"56i

Statement of the Case.

ton by Saturday, the first Saturday of August, that I would be
in Boston at that time, and would complete arrangements for
bringing her home or sending for her. Q. Now if you will
answer the question, whether you expected the letter to arrive
earlier than Saturday? A. Not earlier than Saturday.
"C(ByAf .Somn:) Q. Your sister was rn Minnesota, Where
was she-rmSt. Paul? A. In St.Paul. Q. Where she could
be telegraphed to? A. Yes, sir. Q. Where she could tele.graph you if she knew where you were? A. Yes, sir."
The conductor of defendant,' Fitchburg Railroad Co.'s,
train, called by plaintiff, testified that his train was some two
hours late in leaving North Adams, that he was accustomed
and allowed by the Fitchburg Rdilroad Co. to carry passengers
on that tram, and he took fares, which he turned over to the
company; that he had not asked plaintiff for his fare or ticket,
as he had been asleep; that the collision occurred between
stations, and the trainmen in charge of the train of the Cheshire Railroad Co., defendant, with which his train collided,
neglected when they brought their train to a standstill to send
back or set any or proper danger signals to warn him of their
so being on the track ahead. 1No fault was ascribed to plaintiff except that he was travelling on Sunday.
Plaintiff contended hnd introduced evidence tending to show
that said -collision occurred through the joint negligence of
defendants and that the nature and extent of the injuries received by him and caused by same were of a serious and permanent character, occasioning damages amounting to a sum
exceeding $5000, which he claimed a right to recover upon the
evidence.
At the conclusion of the testimony offered by plaintiff defendants' counsel, not offering any evidenc.e, cited and read to
the court the case of this plaintiff against defendant, the FitA
7lmrf _Raihoc Co. alone, reported in Mfassachusefts Reports,
voL 131, p. 156 (which it was admitted was brought to recover
damages for the accident now made the subject of this suit and
in which the plaintiff became nonsuit voluntarily after a new
trial was granted), and contended that under the law of Massachusetts relied on in its answer the plaintiff could not recover;
VOL. Cxx--36

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

that there was no, evidence which would justify the jury in
finding that he was travelling from necessity or charity, and
that he could not maintain the action.
Plaintiff's counsel contended and claimed and asked the
court to rule that the mere.fact that he was travelling on the
Sabbath or Lord's Day was not of itself .alone a defence to
the action or such as to prevent a recovery independently of
-the question whether he was travelling from necessity or
charity or not; tiaat the statutes of the- State of Nassachusetts on that subject did not apply and constituted no.defence
under the law and the decisions of the Federal courts.
Eis honor the presiding judge ruled as follows, viz.:
"In respect to the motion for a nonsuit the defendant bases
his motion upon three grounds:
"First, that this case has been before the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts, and the Supreme Court, upon the same state of
facts arising upon the construction of a local statute, have
decided that the plaintiff cannot recover by reason of a violation of the law with respect to Sunday; secondly, that the
United States courts are bound to follow the construction
which the Supreme Court of a State puts upon a local or staie
statute; and, thirdly, that the case presented by the plaintiff
is substantially the same case which was presented before the
state court. It seems to me that the law is well settled that
the United States courts are bound to follow the decisions of
the Supreme Court of a State upon the construction of a local
statute, and that this case comes within that principle or doctrine, and that therefore the only question which arises here is
whether the plaintiff does present a different case from that
which was decided by the Supreme CoLzt of the State. Of
course this identical case was before the Supreme Court - the
very case which we have here - and the only point is whether
the facts which the plaintiff now presents are different from
the facts which were before the state court. It does not seem
to me that there is any material, change in the testimony. I
thnnk that the testimony is substantially the same as was presented before the state court; that the changes which the
plaintiff makes are immaterial, and do not affect the principles

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO..
Statement of the Case.

which were laid down by the state court -that is, admitting
the testimony to be true as it goes m here, the principles laid
down by the state court in construing the Sunday law, so,
called,.would apply to this case.
"Now the state court decided that this was not an act of
charity or necessity on the part of the plaintiff, that he was
not engaged in an errand of charity or of necessity. It seems
that he was to receive a letter upon his arrival in Boston
which was to determine whether he should go to the West for
the relief of Ins sister. He was injured on coming to Boston
bWfore his arrival here -that is, in one sense, the act of 'necessity or charity had not begun. It was not determined
whether he shoifldbe obliged to go upon this" errand until he
redeived tis .letter. The letter might be of such' purport as
not to -,allfor hn to go for the relief of his sister, and there-forethe Supreme Court say that the act of ascertaining whether
a person shall do a charitable act is not an act of charity, and
so far as the necessity of the act is conc.'ned the Supreme
Court say that it must be a necessity which cannot be avoided;
it must not be a necessity which arises from convenience. In.
other words, I cannot perform my secular duties during the,
week to the neglect of a necessary act, and then wait until
Sunday to perform an act and call it a necessary-act. I cannot repair a water-wheel upon Sunday, during the time that
the mill may have been stopped, although the stoppage of the
mill upon a week day might throw a thousand men out of
employment and cause me very material- damage. So here
the plaintiff in this case received a communication from his
sister about h~r illness the secona week in July. N'ow whether
he directed her to immediately answer the letter which he sent
in reply to that communication, which was the condition of the
evidence in the state court, or whether he directed her to answer the letter upon Saturday, August 6th, when he 'Oas to
arrive here, and not, if you please, to have the letter arrive
sooner, cannot make any difference in the principle of the case,
because from the second week in July up to the 6th of August
he was engaged in his secular avocations, and,therefore the act
was not such an act of necessity as could not be helped, but he

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

postponed his necessary act in order to engage for some time
in his secular, avocations. Therefpre, it is very clear to my
mind that upon the slight change in the testimony which is "
produced here the plaintiff still comes 'within the rulings of the
supreme court of this State.
' 1ow, I am not here to decide the question whether the court
approves of this Sunday law or not. I am not here to dectde
the question whether, if- the case came up in the first place
before this court, I should not allow ths question, -whether it
was an act of necessity or charity, to g6 to the jury In my
present position I am debarred from this, and the only question
for me to decide is whether the case presented here is substantially the Ame'case as that presented in the supreme court and
whether the principles .laid down there in thie identical case
apply to the slightl different state of facts which is presented
here. That is the only question. I am of opinion that it is
substantially the same case, and therefore that I should abide
by the decision of the supreme court of the State. As it is not
customary for the United States courts to -grant a nonsuit,
perhaps the better way would be to direct a verdict for the defendant?'
.,
- OLrCx: "1
Will your honor pardon me for submitting one
more point: Whether or no, as the evidence now stands, we
are entitled to go to the jury upon the question whether this
letter, in the ordinary .course of the mail, would not have
arrived upon the day which he says he expected it to come.
We base it on this statb of the evidence -that the letter was
-written to his sister about the 22d of July. The evidence
shows that it would take four or five days for the letter to go
out there and then four or five days for a letter to come back,
and under the circumstances and as the evidence puts it his
sister was to asc6rtain whether a gentleman would accompany
her as far as Chicago or perhaps as far as her home in Philadelphia, or whether, if he found himself -nable to come Avith
her, she was in a condition to be moved; and, further, whether
this' man was tb go on ior her. Now, it seems to us that
there is a question which the jury are entitled to pass upon:
Whether the letter, utnder all the circumstances, would have

.BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROADr CO.
,Statem tnof the Case.

arrived in Boston earlier, than Saturday, the 5th day of Au.
gust, when he says he expected it to come-that is, that the
facts which appear in the record of the lower dourt are.not the
same facts that are shown here, and .that there is something
for the jury to pass upon in that particular, because, as your
honor sees, if it took four or five days for the letter to go out
there and four or five days for the reply to come back, that
would consume ten days, and from the 22d of July to the 5th
of August it would leave Qnly two or three days, and the question is, Whether or no Mr. Bucher was entitled to believe that
she might take those two oi three days for. the. purpose of
ascertainng whether this gentleman would come with her or
if she was in a conditiot to be moved and to make up her mind
whether he should come for her at this time." CoLT, .: "I hardly think that could make any difference.
It seems to me that he, having knowledge that his sister was ill
the second week in July, ought then immediately, under the
decision and ruling of the supreme court of the State, to have
communicated with her, and not to have delayed from the
second week ihL July until the 22d or the 26th-that is, from
the time that he received this letter for several weeks he was
engaged in his secular business."
Mm. CL=x:- "I think yourhonor has misunderstood what Isaid was the testimony now. The fa6t of his sister's illness did
not come to his kno-Wledge until the 22d of July. The first
knowledge that he had of it, as he says and as the evidence
stand&, was from the letter that was forwarded to him at Concord, l ew Hampshire, from the main office. That he fixes as
the 22d of July, so that he did not have knowledge of his sister's illness on the 15th; but as soon as he ascertained, on the
22d, that his sister was ill he immediately replied to her letter,
as the evidence now stands."
M7 WAxryemu: "Your honor will remember thathe fixes the
time of his being at Concord from the 20th to the 24th. This
letter was forwarded to him at Concord, and he received it
there and answered it as soon as he received it."
COLT, J.: -' I cannot but think that, upon the testimony presented, this case comes within the principles laid down. The
motion is granted."

OCTOBER TERBI, 1887.
Axgument for Plaintiff in Error.

The praiding juage thereupon directed the jury to return
a verdict for defendants, and plaintiff then duly excepted to all:
said rulings and refusals to rule, directions, and doings of the
presiding judge, and said exceptions were duly allowed. The
jury returned a-verdict for defendants, as directed by the presiding judge, as above stated.
The statute of Massachusetts referred to in the defendants'
plea, as in force at that time, is to be found in the General Statutes of the State, c. 84, § 2, and is as follows: "'Whoever
travels on the Lord's day, except for necessity or charity, shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding ten dollars."
After the accident happened, and before the suit in the state
court was brought, the legislature of Massachusetts enacted
the following statute:
"The provisions of § 2 of c. 84, Gen. St., prohibiting travelling on the Lord's day, shall not constitute a defence to an

action against a common carrier of passengers for any tort orinjury suffered by a person so travelling."
This last-named statute was held by the state court not to be
retroactive, and not to affect this case.
ffr. A. A. Ran-ney for plaintiff in error.
I. The court below erred in regarding this as a qilestion of
local law, in which the Federal court was concluded by the decision of the state courts.
The court below followed the doctrine of law as held by the
Supreme Court of the State of Massachusetts, which this court
will find stated in &,Santonv. 2letro'olitan ?ailroad,14 Allen,
485, thus: - "]Being engaged in a violation of law, without
which he would not have received the injury sued for, the
plaintiff cannot obtain redress .in a court of justice." He seems,
however, to have gone further than this, and treated the ruling
of the state court in Bucizer v. Fitohburg Railroad Co., 131
Mass. 156,- that the evidence reported therein was not sufficient to warrant a verdict for the plaintiff, and that a new trial
must be had before a jury, leave for which was granted, - as
a conclusive adjudication on the issue of fact presented again

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
.Argument fpr Plaintiff In BError.

to a jury in the Circuit Court, rather than as a legal authority
only. The adjudication in the state court was not pleaded in
bar, and would not have availed as such, if it had been, as there
was only a voluntary nonsuit in the case.
The only effect which can properly be g.ven to the decisions
of the state court in this case is as an authority in matter of
law, except that possibly the construction put upon the statute
of May 15, 1877, as to its not being retroactive, may be binding on this court; and-we respectfully submit that the court
below erred in this respect. He disregarded a general prmcipie and rule of law, as adjudicated in the Federal courts, and
by other high authorities in other States, and followed the
doctrine as held in thi State- of Mfassachusetts, treating the
same as binding upon hn, although his own opinoni. might be
otherwise.
In the case of Sazwyer v. Oakm-an, 1 Lowell, 131, afnimed T
flatchford, 290d, the court held itself bound by the doctrine of
this court as against the decisions of the courts of MIassachusetts. The court says: "Now, to the extent of holding that
work done incohtravention of the statute is illegal, itmay b6
that the local law should govern, but the statute itself is silent
concerning the legal consequences of doing such an act, excepting to the extent of the penalty directly imposed. The
effect which it may have on the wrong-doer's standing, as
regards third -persons, is no part of the construction of the
statute, but the application of a general principle of law."
-It
is also held, in Hough v. RaiZway Co., 100 U. S. 214, that
where a case depends upon principles of general law, and not
upon statute regulations, this court is not bound by the decisions of the state courts. That was a railroad case of tort.
See also Myrick v. 3fichigan Cent. aiZroad, 107 U. S. 102;
Railroad Co. v. MZrationa:Z Bank, 102 U. S.14, Qkicago Gity
v.Robbins, 2 Black, 418, Oakes v. NationaZ Bank, 100 U. S.
239 ; BrancA v. Macon & Brunswzck Railroad,2 Woods,385.
"In Burgess v.S eigrrn,107 U. S: 20, 31, this court says:
"As the very object of giving to national courts .urisdibtion
to administer the laws of the States in cbntroversies between
citizens of different States, was to institute independent tribu-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

nals, winch it might be supposed would be unaffected by local
prejudices and sectional views, it would be a dereliction of
their duty not to exercise an independent judgment m cases
not foreclosed by previous adjudication."
It may be regarded as an established rule in this court that,
where private rights are to be determined by the application
of common-law rules alone, the Federal courts are not bound
by the decisions of the state courts.
There is a very good reason why this court should have a
doctrine of its own in cases like the one at bar.
Lines of railway are long and continuous, extending through
different States,. and citizens of different States travel over
them. There ought to be a uniform rule of law to be administered in Federal. courts on such a subject.
If right in this position, we then submit that the doctrine
laid down by this court in PRiZ. WRIm-ington d-c. _2-ailroaaZ
Co. v. Towboat Co., 23 How. 209, and followed by Lowell, JT.,
in case of Sawyer v. Oakman, 1 1owell, 134 (approved by
Woodruff, X.), is the only sensible and sound vnew to take of
the law.
We cite also, m support of this contention, the following
cases, namely: Butto v. W'ruwatosa, 29 Wis. 21; &khmtd v.
ffrlTmprey, 48 Iowa, 652; Carrollv. Staten land Bailroad,
58 1. Y. 126; X!okney v. Cook, 26 Penn; St. 342; S. C. 67 Am.
Dec. 419, X]ritt v. Earle,, 29 N. Y. 115; . £.86 Am. Dec.
292; ohnson v. I
'asburgh,
4'T Vt. 2S8; Bigelow on Torts, 309;
2 Thompson on N~egligence, 1091; Strickler v. Hfough., 1 Pittsb.
(Penn.)"-237; Xoulto v. San.Jiord, 51 Maine, 127; Baker v.
1'ortland, 58 Maine, 199; 2orris v. Iithflwft, 85 N. If. 271;
. 7.69 Am. Dec. 546; Corey v. Bath, 85 N. R. 580; ianders v. Staten Island Railroad,13 Abb. Pr.(N. S.) 389 ; Wharton on Neg., § 821 ; Cooley on Torts, 156, 157.
The trouble with the doctrine, as held by the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts, is this: It has applied its doctrine to cases of
highway and railway accidents alike, disregarding the distinction made by the Supreme Court of Vermont in Johnson v.
.frasburgh,4( Vt. 28. It makes that an efficient cause of the
injury which is not such. It treats travelling on Sunday as

BUCHER v. .CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Argument Ior Plaintiff in Error.

contributing necessarily to the result, when it is not the natural
or usual result'of travelling on Sunday that damages should
follow. It is a species of*judicial outlawry; it ignores the
analogies of the law and the principles of humanity; it impinges upon a well-settled rule of general law, which the same
court has itself recognized and enforced in other cases, to wit:
felchl v. Tfreas5, 6 Gray, 505; White v. Lang, 128 Mass. 598;
Steele v. Bwrk i cit, 101 Mass. 59.
The doctrine of the coiirt of X assachusetts is generally regarded as strained, unwarranted, and unjust: Trallace v. Aravigation Co., 134 Mass. 65, 95; ComonweaZth v. 1ouimll
'asvileB
_ail-oail, 80 Kentucky, 291; -PZatov. CoAoes, 89
T.
7.219; Bou.dw n v. Bamwy, 12 R. I. 392 ;
ayly v. -New
Fork &~c.3 il, (f. Y.), 531; .Yrhaker v. ?ai road, Ohio
St. 172; S. C. 62 A i. Dec. 246; Oahl v. Judd, 30 Ifinnesota, 126; Jacobus v. , -Paul.
.
&c. railway, 20 Minnesota,
125; T7ood v. Erie ?ailway, '19 M. Y. 196.
The mere fact that the plaintiff on the one hand, or the defendant on the other, was engaged in violating the law in a
given particular at the time of the happening of the accident
will not bar the right of action of the former, nor make the
latter liable to pay damages, unless such violation was an efficient cause of the injury.
We insert copious extracts from the opinions of the court in
some of the cases cited, showing -that this general rule of tort
governs the ease at bar.
IfMi-. Justice Grier, in _hilae phia, Wilmington dc. .ailroad
v. Towboat Co., 23 How. at page 207, says "The law relating
to the observance of Sunday defines a. duty of a citizen 'to the
State, and to the State only. For a briach of that duty, he is
liable to the fine or penalty imposed by the statute and nothing
more. Courts of justice have no power to add to this penalty the
loss of a ship by the tortious conduct of another, against whom
the owner has committed. no offence."
The court say, in Cawr-rofl v. Staten Iqland Railroad Co., 58
N. Y. 126: " The defence is purely extraneous. ...
The negligence of the defendant was as wrongful on Sunday as on any
other day, and was as likely to be followed by injurious or fatal

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Axg-ment for Plaintif

in Error.

consequences. The plaintiff's unlawful act did not in any sense
contribute to the explosion .. . To hold the carrier exempt
from liability because the plaintiff was violating the Sunday
statute would be creating a species of judicial outlawry, to

shield a wrong-doer from a just responsibility for his wrongful
act." p. 136.
Dixon, 0. 5., in Sutton v. Wauwatosa, 29 Wis. 21, demonstrates that the .violation of the law is *an independent and
disconnected act, and not a concurring or contributing cause
within the rule of common law, and concludes: "Connection,
therefore, merely in point of time, between the unlawful act
or fault of the plaintiff, and the wrong or omission of defendant, the same being in other respects disconnected and independent acts or events, does not suffice to establish contributory
negligence, or to defeat the action on that ground. As
observed m
in.X ne, v. Cook, such connection, if looked upon
as in any sense a cause, whether sacred and mysterious or
otherwise, clearly falls under the rule - Causa promma nn
r'emot, spectatur." p. 9,9.
In Baker v. Portrand, 58 Maine, 199, the court say. "The
fact that a party plaintiff in an action of this description was
at the time of the injury passing another wayfarer on the wrong
side of the street, or without giving him half of the road, or
that he was travelling on runners without bells, in contravention of the statute (see .Moudton v. Sanford, 51 M[ame,'i4l,by
Appleton, 0. X.), or that he was smoking a cigar in the streets,
in violation of a municipal ordinance, while it imght subject
'the offender to a penalty, will not excuse the town for a neglect to make its ways safe and convenient for travellers, if the
commission of the plaintiff's offence did not in any degree contribute to produce the injury of which he complains." p. 205.
In Schmid v. Hump rey, 48 Iowa-, 652, the court say. -5The
fact that the plaintiff was at the place at the time he was injured did not directly contribute thereto. -&s well might it
be said, if he had never come to Iowa, or been born, he would
not have been injured, and that, therefore, by reason of such
facts, he contributed to the miury." p. 654.
In Johnson v. 1 'asburq, 4T Vt. 28, the court agree with

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the doctrine of the cases cited above, to the extent that the
unlawful act ot travelling on Sunday does not prevent a recovery because it was in any sense contributory negligence, or
because it was simply an illegal act. They say: "Whether he
is lawfully or unlawfully there, when there, the same causes and
forces produce the accident in one case as in the other; and
the fact that the injured one is present unlawfully is not a factor which contributes to the happening of the accident." p. 31.
In S-ncwr v. REough, 1 Pitts. (Penn.) 2M6, the court say:
"The injury arose from'the sole act of the defendant, an obstruction to'the navigation unlawful at all times and seasons,
and unmitigated by any fault in the plaintiff uniting in the prodiction of the injury. Not that the plaintiff was without fault
in his breach of the Sabbath, but that he was in none which
united in the causation of the injury. It is true, if the plaintiff had not navigated the stream, the injury would not have
happened; but it happened, not because he navigated'on SundayW, bug because he navigated at-alL No logical consequence
follows from the time of navigation to the injury happening.
As to the time, the injury ispo4 hoc, npropterhoe.....
Let Sunday navigation be right &r.
wrong, the time is not the
cause of the injury; and the plaintiff participates not in the
cause, but the wrong is the same, whether it happened on one
day-or another. This being the position of defendant toward
tihe case, he cannot ask that not only the penalty of a violated
statute, but that a forfeiture of a ight of action not arising
out of its breach, or dependent on its observance, shall be
inflicted to give it efficacy. . . . It is impossible to perceive how a wrong-doer in one thing can protect himself
against redress because his injury fell upon one who was a
-wrong-doer in another." p. 242. The care there is analogous
to the present one.

If the law forbade -smokmg or profane swearing on the cars,
and a passenger was guilty o" this, and while so doing was
injured by the independent fault or wrong of the defendant.
it might With equal propriety be urged in defence to an action
for the tort of-the defendant, as is said by Dixon, 0. J., in
effect, in 29 Wis. 21 "The principle is that the violation

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
,Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

of Sunday law does not contribute to the result since it is not
the natural or usual result of travelling on Sunday that dam.ig&Bs should follow."
Bigelow on'Torts, 309. "Wrongful acts or omissions cannot
be set off against each other so as to make the one an excuse
for the other, unless they stand respectively in the situation
of true causes to the damage."
It Is a misnomer to call the offence against the law contributory negligence, or "a contributory cause," unless the same
operated as an efficient cause in the production of the injury.
Two passengers, one travelling from necessity or-charity, and
the other not, sit side by side, and both using the same land
and degree of care: both are injured by defendant's tortious
act. How can it be justly said that there is contributory
cause, or a want~of due care, in one case more than the other?
The rule adopted in the Massachusetts cases, and followed
blindly in one or two other of the New England States, closely
impinges on the well-settled general rule of law as to the effect
of collateral unlawful acts, and is condemned in 2 Thompson
on Negligence, 1093-4.
This court condemned the Aoctrine of two of the leading
cases in :Massachusetts, such as Bosworth v. wansey, 10 Ifet.
363; S. . 43 Am. Dec. 441, Gnreg v. TFyma,, 4-Cush. 322.
ubbard, 25
The latter case was condemned in "Foodmna v.
N. H. 67; S. C T Am. Dec. 320; and m ortm v. Gs&r,46
faine, 520; and, finally, the case was overruled in the same
court m ffaZ v Corcoran,107 Miass. 251.
The Supreme Court of Connecticut, in . mo.t v. Plumm, 40
Conn. 111, has dealt with the docetrine also, pushing that of the
overruling case still further.
The state court has, however, adhered uniformly to the old
general doctrine, not heeding the case cited from this court in
23 Row. 209.
When the people began to realize the fact, the general court
came to the rescue and overruled the doctrine as held: flrst, as
to torts of common carriers, in the law of 1877 cited; then,
generally, as to all parties, in the statute of 1884, c. 37. It is
no longer the law of the State, thanks to the.general court.

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Upon principle, it cannot be"justly held that the plaintiff's
cause of action in the case at bar rests upon any illegal contract. The injury arose from a tort independent of'all contract. The contract for 'passage -was inade in the State of
Vermont on Saturday, and the delay of the trains was caused
by an unforeseen accident, which the plaintiff was not bound to
anticipate. There was no moral turpitude. "The duty imposed by law upon a carrier of passengers .to carry them safely,
as far as human skill and foresight can go, exists independently of contract. For a negligent injury against a passenger,
an action lies against the carrier, altifough there be no contract, and the servicq he is rendering is gratuitous; and,
whether the action is brought upon contract or for failure to
perform. the duty, the liability is the same" C'arrollv. Staten
.Aland Railroad Co., 58 N.'Y. 126; Merritt v. Earle,29 N. Y.
115; S, C. 86 Am. Dec. 292.
In Bre-thrton v. Food, 3 Bred. & Bing. 54, Dallas, 0. T.,
says: "This action is on the case against a cofamon carrier,
upon whom a duty is imposed by the custom of the realm, or
in other words by the common law to cairy and convey their
goods and passengers safely and securely, so that by their
negligence or default no injury or damage happens. A breach
of this duty is a breach of the law; and for this breach an
action lies, founded on the common law" p. 62.
In -Philadelpkid&c. Railroad Co. v. Derby, 14 How. 468,
485, Grier, T., says: "This duty does not result alone from the
consideration paid for the service- it is imposed by law."
Tattan v. Great "stern .B.Uiay,2 EL & EL 814; Hutchinson on Torts, § 563, and cases cited therein.
If this court does not adopt the views advanced, then we
submit, as to the exception of the statute, that the state court,
in dealing with the case before them, were determning whether
the evidence adduced was sufficient to sustain the verdict -which
had been rendered. They were dealing with an issue of fact,
with reference to the law, and not with a rule of law simply.
What the court say in Smit& v. Railroad,120 3:1ass. 490, is
the law" of Mfassachusetts, namely
"It is not easy to define, as a matter of law, what state of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

facts will make travelling an act of necessity or charity within
the exception in the Lord's Day Act, or when the plaintiff's

own illegal conduct can be said to be a direct, rather than
a remote, cause contributing to the injury. The first of these
questions is to be determined, to a great extent, by considerations of moral fitness and propriety, the last by the evidence
in each case bearing upon the complicated relations of cause
and effect. In most cases, both questions should be submitted
to the jury, ivith proper instractions."
So in ffeitaZ v .Middlescx R2aiboad,109 Mfass. 398, the court
say: "The necessity of travelling, within the exception in the
Lord's Day Act, is, to a great extent, determined by its moral
fitness and propriety, and it would have been erroneous to
have ruled,,.as matter of law, that travelling for such a purpose was not within the exception."
The court, in construing the statute as matter of law, have
d6fined the words "necessity" or "charity" to comprehend
all acts which it is morally "fit and proper should be done on

the Sabbath."
"The necessity intended by the statute is not to be limited,
on the one hand, to absolute physical necessity, nor, on the
other hand, is it to be so enlarged as to include mere business
convenience or advantage."

Davm v. Somerville, 128 itass..

594 ,597.
The case in the state court, as I remember it, went to the
full court on a report, so the court could determine certain
exceptions, and whether the jury were justified on the case
shown them in rendering the verdict. The court only held, in
reviewing the facts, that the verdict was agaiis t the evidence,
or without evidence, under the rules of law laid down.
The court below has held the ruling-con~lusive in this cas6;
just as though it was res adjudcata, when such it was not,
not being so pleaded, and there being no final judgment which
could properly so operate, if pleaded.
A careful examination of that opinion shows that the court
held adversely to the plaintiff, on the ground that he had
made the aid to his sister a consideration subordinate to his
secular business. I must confess that I fail to appreciate the

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Axgument for Plainti 2n Error.

ground on which that idea is based. Fe did not arrange his
secular business so as to necessitate travelling on Sunday, in
Mtassachusetts, m violation of the statute. He planned so he
would arrive in Boston early Saturday evening. Fe did for
Ins sister all that mercy and charity .required, in perfect consistency with an observance of the law. His necessity for
travelling on Sunday for the rest of the route arose, not from
his plan, but from an unforeseen emergency. The theory of
the court would seem to be that he should have dropped all
business at once, and gone to his sister before the time required,
and should not have waited till the proper time came for him
to go. He, as the case now appears, after he had looked up
the dates for the first time, was to get the letter the very Saturday night in question. Fe had written her from Concord,
N. H., some time from Suly 21 to 24, that he would be in Boston, Saturday, the 5th of August, that being his post-office
address ; was not expecting the letter to arrive earlier than
that. So long as he subserved his sister's necessities in the
matter of charity, he might also regard his business interests,
provided he did not in plan and course of conduct contemplate
travelling on Sunday. Had he arranged to start for Boston,
and travel in fassachusetts, on Sunday, instead of Saturday,
he would not have been justified.
But this is not a case of that kind. He did not arrange for,
nor contemplate, .travelling on Bunday over defendants' road,
or any other road. Had he, in violation of law, got to Boston
when lie expected, lie could have spent Sunday in Boston, and
started for Chicago Nondav morning. The fassachusetts
court might, but probably would not, hold the opening. and
reading of his sister's letter on Sunday to have bten illegal,
-he would have had time to do that Saturday night. The
controlling element in this case, with the state court, seems
to have been that his sister's letter arrived, or would have
arrived, earlier, if Ins letter was written July 1,5, as was Ils
erroneous impression in the trial of the state case, and which
was corrected in the Circuit Court. But, for the life of nm, I
cannot see why the plaintiff was in fault, if he arranged to
get to Boston as soon as the letter would, and that a week-day
named.

OCTOBER TERM[, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Considerations connected with his sister, combined with the
emergency, rendered it fit and proper for him to proceed as he
did do. It is a strange doctrine, if held, that, when a passenger starts in season to reach Boston Saturday evening, and the
train is delayed on the way, beyond the hour of midnight, he
is bound to leave the train and stay over Sunday at the place
where that hour finds him. IHe may be at that time within a
few miles of his own home, or, m these days of rapid transit,
within a short ride, in point of time. This is manifestly an
issue of fact for the jury, even under the local law.
I have dealt with this last branch of the case, not knowing
whether this court will hold to the Massachusetts decisions on
the other point, or will adhere to what it has heretofore adjudged to be the true rule of general law.
A3f. CharlesA. TFelck for defendant in error cited: Bucher
v. Fitchburg Railroad,131 Mass. 156, -fTes v. Andver, 10
Allen, 18, Stanton v. .MetropoZitan, 1ailroad,14 Allen, 485;
Commonwealth. v. Savpson, 97 Mass. 407, Commonwealth v.
doss~ly, 97 Mass. 411, icG'tath v. .Aerwn, 112 Mass. 467;
.Davis v. Somer'iville, 128 Mass. 594; TFallace v. fermakc
River I2avzgation Co., 134 Mass. 95; .Dyv. ighland Street
Railway, 135 Mass. 113; Read v. Boston & Albanoy lailroad,
140 Mass. 199;" Cronan v. Boston, 136 Mass. 381; Baker v.
TForcester, 139 Mass. '14; Burgess v. Sdigman, 107 D. S. 290;
Bumner v. Hicks, 2 Black, 532; LefflngweZ v. 1Yarren, 2 Black,
599, Rowan v. Bunnel, 5 Hou. 131; Ohio Xife Ins. & Trust
Co. v. Debolt, 16 Eow. 416; Pease v. Peck, 18 How. 595;
Douglas v. Pie County, 101 U. S. 677.
JME. JusTioR MmLLr,

delivered the opimoh of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts.
The plaintiff in error was plaintiff in that court, and sought
to recover of the defendants for injuries which he sustained by
reason of their negligence while travelling upon their roads.
The court on the trial substantially instructed the jury that the

BUCHER v. .OHESHIRE RA.LROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff could not recover because the injury complained of
occurred while he was travelling upon the Sabbath day, in
violation of the law of the State of Massachusetts.
A suit between the same parties in regard to the same transaction had been brought in the Supreme Court of that State,
in which, on a trial before a jury, the plaintiff obtained a verdict. This was carried to the court in bank, and was there
reversed and sent back for a new trial.. The plaintiff then
became nonsuit in the state court and brought the present
action in the Circuit Court of the United States.
It is important to inquire what was at issue upon the trial in
the state court. There the defendant set up the law of the
State found in the General Statutes, c. 84, § 2, which is as
follows: "Whoever travels on the Lord's Day, etcept for necessity or charity, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
ten dollars," and insisted that the plaintiff, being in the act
of violating that law at the time the injury occurred, coulq not
recover. On the 15th of :May, 1877, after the plaintiff was
injured, the legislature of Massachusetts passed a statute declaring that this prohibition against travelling on the Iord's
Day should not7 constitute a defence to an action against a
common carrier of passengers for any tort or injury suffered
by the person so travelling. Mass. Stat. 1877, o.232.
The Supreme Court of that State had decided previous to
this, in Santon,v. Mefropo tan RaiZway Co., 14 Allen, 485, a
similar case, that the plaintiff, being engaged in a violation of
law, without which he would not have received the injury sued
for, could not obtain redress in a court of justice. Also in Boswort,&v. Swansey, 10 Mfet. 863, and in Jones v. Andover, 10
Allen, 18. In the trial of the case now under cottsideration,
before the jury in the state court, the plaintiff does not seem
to have controverted the general doctrine thus declared, but
insisted that the present case did not come within the statute,
because, first, the act of May 15, 18T, had declared that trvelling on Sunday should no longer be a defence to actions for
injuries suffered by reason of the negligence of carriers of passengers, although this statute was passed after the accident
occurred upon which the right of action was founded, and,
VOL. Oxxv-37

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

second, that" at the time he was injured he was, within the
meaning of the statute, travelling upon an errand df charity
or necessity, specially excepted from its provisions.
The court below sustained both of these propositions of the
plaintiff, and the court n bank reversed 'the irial court upon
both of them. It held that the act of Mfay 15, 1877, did not
govern a case where the inju.y had occurrdd before its passage;
that it was not retroactive, and also held that the facts set out
in the bill of exceptions did not show that the plaintiff was
travelling at the time of the accident either from necessity or
for charity. It nay be as well to state here that the facts
found in the bill of exceptions relating to this latter question,
as it was presented before the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,
were identical with those appearing in the bill of exceptions of
the case now before us, being in both cases the plaintiffs own
statement of his reasons for travelling on that day.
Upon the trial m the Circuit Court of the Tnited States the
judge was requested by the plaintiff to charge the jury that.
the circumstances detailed in the testimony of plaintiff and
found in the bill of exceptions concerning the illness of his
sister in Minnesota, of which he had received kmowledge by
letter, and had replied that he would meet her in Chicago at
a certain time, and that, having been delayed by accidental
circumstances, the travel on Sunday, when he was injured,
became necessary to enable him to fulfil that promise, were
sufficient to be submitted to the jury in order that they might
pass upon the question of whether orAx, this act of travelling
on the Lord's Day was a work of necessity or charity. This
the court declined to do, saying that the same question having
been submitted to the jury in the trial in the state court, and
having been passed upon by the Supreme Court of the State,
he did not consider that there was evidence sufficient to go to
the jury upon that subject.
This is one of- the assignments of error now before us, and
upon this point we are of opinion that the court below ruled
correctry. It is not a matter of' estoppel which bound"the
parties in the court below, because there was no judgment
entered in the case m which the ruling of the state court was

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

made, and we do not place the correctness of the deternination of the Circuit Court in refusing to permit this question to
go to the jury upon the ground that it was a point decided
between.the parties, and therefore 763 judiczta as between
them in the present action, but upon the ground that the Supreme Court of the State in its decision had given such a construction to the ineaning of the words "1charity" and 1necessity" in the statute, as to clearly show that the evidence
offered upon that subject was not sufficient to prove that the
plaintiff was travelling for either of those purposes. The
court in its opinion, which is reported in uchm, v. Mohburg
Railroad,131 Mfass. 156, said:
"The act of plaintiff in thus travelling on the Lord's Day
was not an act of necessity within the meaning of the statute.
. .

. In order to constitute an act of charity, such as is ex-

empted from the Lord's Day act, the act which is done must
be itself a charitable wet. The act of aseertaanng whether a
charity is needful is not the charity; but, so far as the statute
is concerned, the only question in that case would be, is this
act a necessary act ? That involves the question, whether the
act is one which it is necessary to do on the lord's Day; and
no previous neglect to obtain the requisite information on a
,previous day creates a necessity for obtaining it on the Lords
Day." p. 159.
After citing other cases which had been decided in that
court, it was further said
"It is apparent that the plaintiff's duty to his sister was
made subservient to his secular business. We are, therefore,
of opinion that the ruling should" have been given that there
was no evidence which would justify the jury in finding that
the plaintiff was travelling from necessity or charity, within
the meaning of the statute." p. 160.
Taking, therefore, this construction of the language of the
statute, as well as prir decisions to the same purport in which
we think we are bound to follow the Supreme Court of the
State, we agree that the record in this case as in that does not
furmsh evidence which should have gone to the jury upon
that branch of the subject.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Couit.

The other assignment of error, in regard to the effect of
trayVdlling on the Lord's Day in'violation of the statute of
Massachusetts, submitted as a defence to what would otherwise be a liability, of the railroad for the negligence- of its servants, presents the matter in a somewhat differeift aspect.
It is not easy to-see that there was anything in the case as
it arose in the Circuit Court which reqired a construction of
the meaning of that statute, after eliminating what has just
been suggested as to the signification of the words "necessity"
or "lcharity." The remainder is a short prohibition against
trkvelling upon the Lord's Day, and provides for the imposition of a penalty for so doing. This is very plain; it admits
of no doubt as to its meaning, and its validity has never been
controverted. When, therefore, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in a long line of decisions, has held that the violation of this statute may 1e set up as a defence to a liability
growing out of the negligence of a railroad company in carrying passengers upon its road, it must have been on some other
ground than that to be found in the expressions used in the
statute itself. There is no such provision in it, and there is
no necessary inference to be, drawn from its language that it
was intended to control the relations between the passenger
hud the carrier, or to modify the obligations of the one to the
other.
The language of the court in Stanton v. f tropo i
_Raiway Co., already cited, is that "because the plaintiff was engaged in the violation of law, without which he would not
have received the injury sued for, he cannot obtain redress in
a court of justice." This princLple would seem to be as appli-cable to 'a man engaged in any other transaction forbidden by
law as to that of violating the Sabbath. *Whether the doctrine thrus-iaid down is a sound one, and whether, if it -be not
sound as it commends itself to our judgmnent, we should follow
it'as being supported by the decisions 6f the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts in numerous instaces, prisents in this case
the only serious question for our consideration. RHamiltm v.
"City of Boston, 14 Allen, -75, Boswort v. wcney, 10 Mtet.
963; Jones v. Andover, 10 .Allen, 18; -Day v. Jighland reet

BUCHER v. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.
?ailway Co., 135 :Mass. 113, Read v. Boston 6 Albany Railroad Co., 140 Mass. 199.
If the proposition, as established by the repeated decisions of
the highest court of that State, weze one which we ourselves
believed to be a sound one, there would be no difficulty in
agreeing with that court, and, consequently, affirnng the ruling of the circuit judge in the present case. But without
entering into the argument of that subject, we are bound to
say that we do not feel satisfied, that, upon any general principles of law by which the courts that have adopted the common law system are governed, this is a true exposition of
that law.
On the contrary, in the case of PAila., likington. c Balf.
Railroadv. tam Towboat Co., 23 How. 209, tins court had
under consideration the same question. It arose in regard to
the. effect of a statute of :Maryland forbidding persons "to
work or do any bodily labor, or willingly suffer any of their
servants to do any manner of labor on the Lord's Day, works
of charity or necessity excepted," and prescribing a penalty
for a breach thereof. It was held by, tins court that where a
vessel was rosecuting her voyage on Sunday, and was injured
by piles negligently left in the river, this statute making travelling on Sunday an offence and punishing it by a penalty,
constituted no defence to an action for damages by the vessel
A number of cases were cited sustaining that view of the subject, -and the court, through Mr. Justice Grier, used this language: "We do not feel justified, therefore, onlany principles
of justice, equity, or of public policy; in inflicting an additional
penalty of seven thousand dollars on the libellants, by way of
set off, because their servants may have been subject to a penalty of twenty shilling each for the breach of the statute."
p. 218.
In that case, however, there had been no decision of the
courts of Mtaryland, holding that a violation of the Sabbath
would constitute a defence to the action against the company
which had left the piles in the river. In tns view of the matter it is not unworthy of consideration that, shortly after the
injury in the present case was inflicted, the General Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Massachusetts passed a statute, to which we have already
referred, declaring that travelling on the Iord's Day shouldnot " constitute a defence to an action against a common carrier of passengers for any tort or injury suffered by a person
so travelling."
The question then arises, how far is tins court bound to follow the decisions of the Massachusetts Supreme Court on that
sub3ect?

The Congress of the United States, in the act by which the
Federal courts were organized, enacted that "the laws of the
several States, except where the Constitution, tieaties or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide, shall
be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in
the courts of the United States, in cases where they apply."
l~ev. Stat. § 721; Tudiciary Act, 24: Sept., 1-789, c. 20, § 34, 1
Stat; 92. This statute has been often the subject of construction in this court, and its opinons have not always been expressed in language that is entirely harmonious. What are
the laws of the several States which are to be regarded " as
rules of decision in trials at common law" is 2, subject which
has not been ascertained anddefined with that uniformity and
precision desirable in a matter of such great importance..
The language of the statute limits its application to cases of
trials at common law. There is, therefore, nothing in the
section which requires it to be applied to proceedings in equity,
or in admiralty;. nor is it applicable tb criminal offences against
the United States, (see United Sates v. 1?ezd, 12 How. 361,) or
where the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States
require other rules of decision. But with these, and some
dther exceptious which will be referred to preset.tly, it must be
admitted- that it does provide that the lw of the several
States shall.be received in the courts of th6 United States, in
cases where they apply, as the rules of decision in trials at
common law
It has been held by this court that th" decisions of the highest court of a State in regard to the validity or meaning of
the constitution of that State, or its statutes, are to be considere4 as the law of that State, within the requirement of

BUCHER v.. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

this section. In .Zeffjngwefl v. 1Varren, 2 Black, 599, this
court said, in regard to the statutes of limitations of a State:
"1The construction given to a statute of a State by the highest
tribunal of such State is regarded as a part of the statute, and
is as binding upon the courts of the United States as the text."
In the case of Ziuher v. Borden, 7 How 1, 40, Chief Justice
Taney said: "The point then raised here has been already
decided 'by the courts of Rhode Island. The question relates
altogether to the constitution and laws of that State; and the
well-settled rule in this court is, that the. courts of the United
States adopt and follow the decisions of the state courts in
questions which concern merely the constitution and laws of
the State." See also Post v. Sutpervisors, 105 U. S. 667.
It is also -well settled that, where a course of decisions,
whether founded upon statutes or not, have become rules o'f
property as laid down by the highest courts of the State, by
which is meant those rules governing the descent, transfer, or
sale of property, and the rules which affect the title and possession thereto, they are to be treated as laws of that State by
the Federal courts.
The principle also applies to the rules of evidence. In .x
_parte Ti8s., 113 U. S. '13, 7'20, the court said: "It has been
often decided in this court that in actions at law in the courts
of the United States the rules of evidence and the law of evidence generally of the State prevail in those courts." See also
"Mleox v. Hzunt, 13 Pet. 378; .yar v. Bindley, 1 Wall. 66.
There are undoubtedly exceptions to the prinfciple that the
decisions of the state courts, as to what are the laws of that
State, are in all cases binding upon the Federal courts. The
case of Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, which has been often follbwed, established the principle that if this court took a different view of what the law was in certain classes of cases which
ought to be governed by the general principles of comnnercial
law, from the state court, it was not bound to follow the latter.
There is, therefore, a large field of jurisprudence left in wlich
the question of how far the decisions of state courts constitute
the law of those States is an embarrassing one.
There is no common law of the United States, and yet the

584=

OCTOBE.R TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

.main body of the rights of the people of this country rest upon
and are governed by principles derived from the common law
of England, and established as the laws of the different States.
F9ach State of the Union may have its local usages, customs,
and common law. WTheaton v. Pete, 8 Pet. 591; Penns
y.vaniav. Whee.ng .A,4dge Co., 13 How. 519.
When, therefore, in an ordinary trial in an action at law we
speak of the common law we refer to the law of the State as
it -has been adopted by statute or recognized by the courts as
the foundation of legal rights. It is in regard to decisions
made by the state courts in reference to this law, and defining
what is the law of the State as modified by the opinions of its
own courts, by the statutes of the State, and the customs and
habits of the people, that the trouble arises.
It may be said generally that wherever the decisions of the
state courts relate to some law of a local character, which may
have become established by those courts, or has always been a
part of the law of the State, that the decisions upon the subject
are usually conclusive, and always entitled -to the highest respect of the Federal courts. The whole of this subject has
recently been very ably reviewed in the case of Burges v. SeZigman, 107 U. S. 20. Where such local law or custom has
been established by repeated decisions of the highest courts of
a State it becomes also the law governing the courts of the
United States sitting in that State.
We are of opinion that the adjudications of the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts, holding that a person engaged in
travel on the Sabbath day, contrary to the statute of the State,
being thus in the act of violating a crimii*l law of the State,
shall not recover against .a corporation upon whose road he
travels for the negligence of its servants, theyeby establish this
principle as a local law of that State, declaring, as they do, the
effect of its statute in its operation upon the obligation of the
carrier of passengers. The decisions on this subject by the
Massachusetts court are numerous enough and of sufficiently
long standing to establish the rule, so far as they can establish
it, and we think that, taken in connecJion with the relation
which they bear to the statute itself, though giving an effect

BOWERMAN v. ROGERS.
Syllabus.

to it which may not meet the approval of this court, they
nevertheless determine the law of Mtassaohusetts on that sub-

ject.
Mmi. JUSTICE lh&n&, with whom concurred 11R. JUSTIcE
FIELD, dissented upon the grounds:

1, That the question whether the provision in c. 84, § 2 of
'the General Statutes of Massachusetts that "whoever travels
on the Lord's Day, except for necessity or charity, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding ten dollars" is a bar to a
recovery in this action, is a question of general law upon which
the Federal courts are at liberty to follow their own convictions; and,
2, That it is settled by _P .ade~pkia, Timington, awu Bal-

timore Bagoadv. Ph

Aia,and Havre de &-ace Towboat

Co., 23 How. 209, that such a state statute is not a bar to a recovery in an action like this in a Federal court.

BOWERIAN v. ROGERS.
BEMiOR TO THE CIROUP

COURT OF THD UNITED STATES FORTH

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 187. Argued :February 16, 1858.- Decided Mareb 19, 2888.
From the evidence in this case it is clear that the assignor of the defendants In error employed the plaintiffs in error as their agents to enter at
the Custom House in New York importations of sugar Imported by them,
and, after protest, to commence suits to recover an excess of duty imposed upon the importations, and that the plaintiffs In error undertook to
perform those services; and, It being settled in actions brought by other
persons under similar circumstances and on like mportations, that such
duties were illegally exacted, and the plaintiffs in error having failed to
commence suits -within the period limited by law to recover such as
were illegally exacted from the assignor of the defendants in error,
Held, that the 3udgment of the court below for their recovery must be
affirmed.

