TENNESSEE &c. WJ'D CO. v. SOUTHERN TEL. CO. 695
Opinion of the Court.

EAST

TENNESSEE,

GEORGIA
VIRGINIA AND
v. SOUTHERN TELE-

RAILROAD COMPANY
GRAPH COMPANY.
ERRO

INo. 10.

TO THE CIRCUIT COU]JT OF THE UNITED STATES
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALAEAMA.

FOR THE

Submitted December 13, 18T.-Argaecl bnrcb.20, 18.- Decided April 9,1888.

It being made to appear that one party to this suit had sold out to the other,
and that the suit was prosecuted by the purchasing party for his own
benefit, the court of Its own motion, after notice and hearing, dismissed
the case.

A r. GaylordB. Clark for plaintiff in error submitted on his
brief.
No appearance by counsel for defendant in error. .fr. WT.A.
unter was attorney of record for it.
JUSTICE WAITE on the 9th of January, 1888,
MR. CHrIE
announced the following order:
It having beef suggested to us that there is no longer anZ

real controversy between the parties to this suit about the
matters therein originally involved, and that The Western
Union Telegraph Company is at this time practically both
plaintiff and defendant, it is ordered that this writ of error be
dismssed unless the plaintiff in error show cause to the contrary on or before the 17th .day of February. The Clerk will
serve a copy of this order at once on the counsel of rebord fcor
the plaintiff in error through the mail.
Due service of this order was ma%, and on the 20th of
February, 1888
THE CsiEF JUSTICE made the following announcement:
The showing i this case against the order to dismiss des
not satisfy us that -there exists any louger a real controversy
in the suit. It is conceded that the Western Union Telegraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Company is now occupying the line under a contract with the
railroad company, which gives it an exclusLve right in that
behalf, and it is not demed that some arrangement has been
made with the Southern Telegraph Company by which that
company no longer is a contestant in the cause. Time is given
the railroad company until the 19th day of March next to make
a further chowing in the premises if it.desires to do so.
M . JUSTICE MiRsn, on the 9th of April, 1888, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It was suggested by a letter from counsel employed on one
side of this suit that his party had sold out the interest which
it had to the other party, who was prosecuting it now and
was dominu litis on both sides. A ruling was made some
time ago, before the death of the late Chief Justice, in effect
'that there was sufficient evidence to that effect to requre the
case to be dismissed unless the 'side now prosecuting it for
decision would show satisfactory evidence that it was a bonax
.Rde suit. Two attempts have been made, and we are agreed
m the opinion that they are both failures and that the'original
order should now be carried out, dismissing the case on the
grounds set forth in the opinion of the Chief Justice, delivered
at the time.
I RE ROYALL
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE ADJUDGED AT THE LAST TERM OF
THIS COURT.
No. 1351 of October Term,1886. Submitted February1', 188..--Decided February 20,1888.

The court denies a motion to take action to cause the judgment of a state
court to be reversed in obedience to the mandate of this court, on the
ground that it did not appear that the petitioner bad applied to the highest court of the State to carry the mandate of this court into effect.

.21i .- igk .Robznson, on behalf of Mr. 'William L. Royall,
the plaintiff in 1?oyaZ v. lVirginia, decided at the, last term
and reported in 121 U. S. at page 102, presented. the follow.
ing petition.

