OCTOBER TEnUf,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

federal question, is to make more certdin and specific what
is too general and indefinite m the record, but is incompetent
to originate the 'question'
Par2wVee v. -Lzwrence,11 Wall.
36, 39; Brnown. v. Atwe, 92 U. S. 327, 330. See, also, Adarm
County v. Burlidngton &~ fisouri Railroad, 112 -U. S. :193,
129.
Wt of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BANK OF REDMETION v'. BOSTON.

VIR

TO THE CIRoUIT COUT OF TEE DETD STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF biASSACHUSEITTS.
No. 1324. Argued February 74,1858. -Decided

March 9, 188.

The question of exemption from taxation of deposits in savings banks, as
affecting the rule for the state taxation of national bank shares, was
very deliberately considered by this court in Mercantile Bank v. New
York, 121 U. S. 138; and the conclusion reached in that case 'was
reaffirmed in Davenport Bank v. Davenport Board of Equaizat.ion, 123
U. S. 83; and it is impossible to distinguish this case from those cases.
The laws for the taxation of national banks in Massachusetts, Mass. Pub.
Stats. c. 13, §§ 8, 9, 10, do not deny to the banks as taxpayers the equal
protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States; and do not impose a disproportionate
and unequal tax upon them in violation of the provisions of the constitution of that Stale.
'It is the manifest intent of lev. Stat. § 5219, to permit the State in which
a national bank is located to tax all the shares in its capital stock without regard to ownership, subject only to the limitations prescribed in
that section; and in this case the law permits the taxation of the shares
in the bank of the plaintiff in error which are owned by other national

banks, on-the same footing with all other shares.

Tins was an action at law, in contract, to recover taxes
alleged to have been illegally assessed. Judgment for defendant. Pdaintiff sued out this suit of error. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
.A&. George S. Hale for plaintiff in error. 1r. WilZard
Brown and Ar. Charles ]r Well were with him on the brief.
.21r. G... Hoarand .Mr.A. T.Bailey for defendant m error.

BANK OF REDEMPTION v. BOSTON.
Opinion of the Court.
Mn. JuSTOE

Xrrnnws delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought by the plaintiff in error, a
national bank located in Boston, to recover from the city of
Boston the amount of .814,461, paid to the tax collector of the
city, upon demand, he then holding a tax list and warrant for
its collection, after a protest in writing: being an amount
which it alleges was illegally assessed on its shares at $12.80
per $1000 of valuation, in violation of § 5219 of the Revised
.Statutes, of the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, and of
the provisions of the Constitution of the State of Mfassachusetts. The cause was submitted to the court without the intervention of a jury. Tudgment was rendered in favor of the
defendant upon an agreed statement of facts. That judgment
is brought here upon this writ of error.
The tax in question was levied under c. 13 of the Public
Statutes of Nfassachusetts, relative to the taxation of bank
shares, as f6llows:
",SEc. 8. All the shares of stock in banks, whether of issue
or not, existing by authority of the United States or of the
Commonwealth and located within the Commonwealth, shall
be assessed to the owners thereof in the cities or towns where
such banks are located, and not els2where, in the assessment
of all state, county, and town taxes, imposed and levied in
such place, whether such owner is a resident of said.citv or
town or not; all such shares shall be assessed at their fair cash
value on the first day of M~ay, first deducting therefrom the
.proportionate part of the value of the real estate belonging to
the bank, at the same rate and no greater than that at which
other moneyed capital in the hands of citizens and' subject to
taxation is by law assessed. And the persons or corporations
who appear from the records of the banks to be owners of
shares at the close of the business day next preceding the first
day uf May in each year, shall be taken and deemed to be theowners thereof for the purposes of this section.
"ISEc. 9. Every such bank or other corporation shall pay to
the collector, or other person authorized to collect the taxes of
the city or town in which the same is located, at the tinfo in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

each year when .other taxes assessed in the said city or town
become due, the amount of the tax so assessed in such year
upon the shares in such bank or other corporation. If such
tax is not so paid, the said bank or other corporation shall be
liable for the same; and the said tax, with interest thereon at
the rate of twelve per cent per annum from the day when the
tax became due, may be recovered in an action of contract
brought by the treasurer of such city or town.
'- SEc. 10. The shares of such banks or other corporations
shall be subject to the tax paid thereon by the corporation or
by the officers thereof, and the corporation and the officers
thereof shall have a lien on all the shares in such bank or.other
corporation, and on all the rights and property of the shareholders in the corporate property for the payment of said
taxes:'
From these sections it appears that1st. The shares in national banks are to be assessed at their
fair cash value, after deducting therefrom the proportionate
part of the.value of the real estate belonging to the bank.
2d. -They are to be assessed at the same rate and no greater
than that at which other moneyed capital in the hands of citizens and subject to taxation is by law assessed.
3d. The bank itself, as a corporation, is made liable in the
first instance for the payment of.the taxes so assessed upon its
shares belonging to its shareholders.
4th. If not paid when due, the bank is liable to an action
for the recovery. of the sane, brought by the treasurer of the
city or town in which it is located, with interest thereon at
the rate of twelve per cent per annum from the day when
the tax became due.
5th. For the payment of said taxes th corporation has a
lien on all the shares in the bank and on all the-rights and
property of the shareholders in the corporate property, as an
videmnity.
It further appears, from a comparison of the statutes on the
subject, that the action given by § 9, for the recovery of the
taxes, with interest at twelve per cent per annum, is the only
mode of collection provided in case of default, no power being

BANK OF

DREDMPTION v.. BOSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

given to any ipllecting oficer to proceed by distraint or other
seizure of the property of the bank or the shares of tle stock
for that purpose.
Chapter 11 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts provides
that personal properIi-, for the purposes of taxation, shall include goods, chattels, money, and effects wherever they are,
money at interest, and other debts due the persons to be taxed
interest for but not inmore than they axe indebted or %y
cluding in such debts or indebtedness any loan on mortgage
of real estate taxable as real estate, except the excess of such
loan above the assessed value of the mortgaged real estate;
public stocks and securities; stocks inturnpikes, bridges, an([
moneyed corporations within or without the State; the income
from an annuity, from ships and vessels engaged in the foreign-carrying trade, and so .much of t1 a income. from a profession, trade, or other employment as exceeds the sum of
$2000 a year; but no income shall be taxed derived from
property subject to taxation, and no taxes shall be assessed
upon the shares in the capital stock of a corporation'orgauized
or chartered in the Commonwealth which pays a tax upon its
corporate franchise§, except for school, district, and parish
purposes. It is not dispnted .but that under these and other
provisions of the law all personal estate included Vithim this
enumeration and real estate are taxable and were txed upoa
their fair cash value at the same rate of $12.80 for eab 1ooo
of value levied during the same period upon shares of bapital
stock of national banks located in Boston. The amount of
personal property in the city of Boston taxed during that
period and at that rate is stated to 'be $LS9,605,672. The
aggregate value of shares ir national bankd in that city for
the same year was $60,428,000.
Corporations chartered by the Commonwealth or orgaaized
under general laws, for purposes of, business or profit,
having a capital stock divided into shares, excepting banks,
s.re subject to a tax upon their corporate franchises. For purposes of taxation, the law requires the corporate franchise in
each case to lie estimated at a valuation thereof equal to the
aggregate value of the shares in its capital stock. The rate

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.
of taxation is deterifuned by an apportionment of the whole
amount of money to be raised by taxation upon property in
the Oomnmonweath during the same current year, as returned
by the assessors of the several cities and towns, upon the
aggregate valuation of all the cities and towns for the preceding year. From the valuation of the corporate franchise,
there is to be deducted, in case of railroad and telegraph companies whose lines extend beyond the limits of the Commonwealth, such a portion of the whole valuation of their capital
stock as is proportional to the length of that part of their line
without the Commonwealth, and also an amount equal to the
value of their real estate and machinery located and subject*
to local taxation within the Commonwealth; the same deduction as to real estate and machinery being made in case of
other corporations.
Savings banks are required to pay to the treasurer of the
State a tax on account of their depositors of one-half of one
per cent per annum on the amount of their deposits, excluding so much of the deposits as are invested in real estate used
for banking purposes, or in loans secured by mortgages on
faxable real estate, and also for a certain period so much of
the deposits as are invested in real estate, the title to which
has been acquired by the completion of foreclosure or by purchase, and such deposits so taxed are otherwise exempt from
taxation in the hands of their owners.
Life insurance companies are required to pay an excise tax
at the rate of one-quarter of one per cent per annum upon a
valuation equal to the aggregate net value of all policies, in
force on the last day of the year next preceding, held by
residents of the Commonwealth. All other insurance companies pay a tax, by way of excise, of one per cent on all
premiums received during the year for insurance, and one per
cent on all assessments made by such companies upon policy
holders.
The Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company is
required to pay a tax upon all deposits, trust fands or funds
held for purposes of investment, except upon deposits invested
in loans secured by mortgages on taxable real estate, the same

BANK OF REDEMPTION v. BOSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

rate of tax imposed upon savings banks on account of deposits;
and the same rule applies to all trust companies, safe deposit
and trust companies, banking and trust companies, loan and
trust companies, and other moneyed corporations incorporated
in the Commonwealth. The American Bell Telephone Company is subjected to a franchise tax, based upon an apportionment made upon the number of telephones in use by it, or
under.its authority, or with its permission, or under letters
patent olvned or controlled by it, within and without the
Commonwealth, respectively, deducting the market value of
all stocks in other corporations held by it upon which a tax
has been assessed and actually pDid, either in. Massachusetts
or m other States, for the preceding year.
Savings banks, under the laws of the Commonwealth, are
authorized to receive deposits from any person until they
amount to $1000, and to allow interdst thereon to be coinpounded until the principal with the accrued interest amounts
to $1600, no interest to be paid on any greater sum. The
deposits are to be invested only as follows: 1st. In first mortgages of real estate situated in the Commonwealth to au
amount not to exceed sixty per cent of the valuation of such
real estate, but not exceeding seventy per cent of the whole
amount of deposits. 2d. In public funds of the United States
and of certain enumerated States and municipal corporations,
or in the notes of any citizen of the Commonwealth secured
by a pledge of any such securities at their par value. 3d. In
the first mortgage bonds of certain descriptions of railroad
companies, or in the notes of any citizen of the Commonwealth, secured by a pledge of any such securities at not less
than eighky per cent of the par value thereof. 4th. In certain
bank stodks, including the stocks of national banks located in
the New England States, or -in the notes of any citizen with
such bank stocks as collateral security, at not more than
eighty per cent of the market value thereof, and not exceeding the par v'alue thereof. but the amount of such investments
in such bank stocks is specifically limited. 5th. In loans upon
the personal notes of depositors of the corporation, not exceeding one-half of the amount of the deposit, in which case
VoL. 125-5

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Couru.

the deposit is held d§ collateral security for the payment of
the loan. 6th. If the deposits cannot be convemently invested
in the modes heretofore named, not exceeding one-third part
thereof may be invested in bonds or other personal securities
payable-at a time not exceeding one year, with at least two
sureties, all of whom are to be citizens of the Commonwealth
and residents therein. -7th. Ten per cent of the deposits of
any such corporation, not exceeding $200,000, may be invested
in the purchase of a suitable site and building for the transaction of its business. 8th. Any such corporation may hold
real estate acquired by the foreclosure of any mortgage owned
by it-or by purchase at sales made under the provisions of any
such mortgage, or for the satisfaction of debts due to it, but
all such real estate shall ba sold within five years after the
title is vested in the corporation.
The particular in which the plaintiff in error chiefly insists
that the tax inposed upon its shares is at a greater rate than
that assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens 6f Mlassachusetts, is the alleged inequality
existing in favor of that imposed upon savings banks. The
contrast of which this inequality is the result is stated to be
as follows, viz.. That in 1885 a tax of $1,561,995 was collected
upon national bank shares in Mfassachusetts of the value of
$113,000,000, while upon $163,000,000 of savings bank deposits
in the same year there was collected as a tax only $815,930.
In view of the state of the question, as fixed by the previous
decisions of this court. it is not perhaps very material now to
inquire whether this alleged contrast between the taxation of
national bank. shares and of savings banks ih :Massachusetts
is real or only apparent. There are several particulars which
might be mentioned, and which, when properly allowed for,
would certainly reduce the apparent inequality There is only
one, however, which we deem it important to notice. The
tax on savings banks is based upon deposits merely. This is
because deposits furnish the only capital which is invested
and employed. The institutions themselves, although corporations, have no capital stock, and are managed by trustees,
not selected by the depositors, but by public authority. The

BANK OF REDEMPTION v. BOSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

whole amount of the deposits, with the exceptions noted, are
subjected to a tax of one-half of one per cent. On the other
hand, the national banks pay a tax assessed upon the market
value of the shares as personal property, upon a valuation and
at a rate exactly equal to that of all other personal property
subject to taxation in the State. But shares of the national
banks, while they constitute the capital stock of the corporations, do not represent the whole amount of the capital
actually employed by them. They have deposits, too, shown
in the present record to amount, in Massachusetts, to $132,0-12,332. The banks are not assessed for taxation on any part
of these, although these deposits constitute a large part of the
actual capital profitably employed by the banks m the conduct
of their banking business.. But it is not necessary to establish
the exact equality in result of the two modes of taxation.
The question of the exemption from taxation of deposits in
savings banks, as affecting the rule for the State taxation of
national bank shares, was very deliberately considered by this
court in the case of .1eA'eantile Bank v. LTew 7orb, 121
U. S. 138, 160; and the conclusion reached in that case was
reaffirmed in the case of DavenportBank v. Davenport Board
of Equalization, 123 'f. S. 83. In the former case deposits
in savings banks in the State of New Y6rk to the amount of
$37,107,501, with an accuiilated surplus, in addition, of
$68,669,001, were exempted by the laws of the State from all
taxation, neither the bank itself nor the individual depositor
being taxed on account thereof. It was said in that case
(p. 161): "However much, therefore, may be the amount of
moneyed capital in the hands of individuals in the shape of
deposits in savings banks as now organized, which the policy
of the State exempts from taxation for its own purposes, that
exemption cannot affect the rule for the taxation of shares in
national banks, provided they are taxed at a rate not greater
than other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens,
otherwise subject to taxation."
It is impossible, in our judgment, to distinguish the present
from the case of the lNew York savings banks,.or of those of
Iowa considered in the case of the Davenport Bank. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

principal distinction; indeed, between the case of. the Newr
York savings banks and those of Massachusetts, involved in
the present inquiry, is that the latter pay a tax of one-half of
one per cent on the amount of their deposits, while the New
York banks were exempt from all taxation whatever.
The argument on behalf of -the plaintiff in error, indeed,
seeks to- establish another distinction. It is alleged that in
Massachusetts savings banks are permitted to transact a banking business in the way of loans upon personal securities,
which assimilates them more closely to national banks, and
takes away the reason for the application of the rule to them
which was applied to the case of the savings banks of. New
York. But the difference mentioned, if it exists at all, is immaterial, the main purpose and chief object of savings banks,
as orgaized under the laws of Massachusetts, are the same as
those in New York, as considered in the case of the Mercantile
Bank. They are substantially institutions, under public management, in pursuance of a great and beneficial public policy,
organized for the purpose of investing the savings of small
depositors, and not as banking institutions in the commercial
sense of that phrase. We adhere to the rule as declared in the
cases heretofore decided, which forecloses further discussion as
to the present point in this case.
A. similar objection to the tax in question, founded on a
comparson of the taxation of national bank shares with that
of insurance companies and trust companies, the American
Bell Telephone Company, and the Massachusetts Hospital Life
Ifisurance Company, is equally untenable. Within the definition of that phrase, established in the case of the . krcanzfile
Bank v. .ZEew Y'k, 121 U. S. 138, the interest of individuals
in these institutions is not moneyed capital: The investments
made by the institutions themselves, constituting their assets,
are not moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of
the State. People v. Commsioners, 4 Wall. 9A4.
It is further .contended, however, on the part of the plaintiff
in error, that the taxation in question is not only at a greater
rate than that imposed upon other moneyed capital held by
individual citizens, but that it s repugnant to the 14th Amend-

BANK OF REDEBIPTION v. BOSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ment Vb the Constitution of the United States, because it operates to deny to the taxpayer the equal protection of the laws,
and also that it is disproportionate and unequal, in violation of
the provisions of the constitution of :Massachusetts. The two
branches of this proposition are equivalent; if the tax is not
disproportionate and unequal, within the meaning of the constitution of the State, the taxpayer is not denied the equal
protection of the laws within the sense of the 14th Amendment. The point is fully met by the reasoning and judgment
of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in the cases of
the Providence14titutionrfon Swings v. City of Boston, and
-PlinyJewell v. City of Boston, 101 mass. 575, 585.
Another point to be noticed arises upon the third count of
the declaration. It is therein alleged that other national
bauldng associations, some located in Massachusetts and others
in the several New England States, are the owners of 1448
shares of the capital stock of the National Bank of Redemption, on which the amount of tax paid was $2051. It is urged
in argument that these shares are not taxable by virtue of §
5219 of the :Revised Statutes. The language of the section is:
".Nothing herein shall prevent all the shares in any association
from being included in the valuation of -the personal property
of thb owner or holder of such shares, m assessing taxes
imposed by authority of the State within which the association
is located; but the legislature of each State may determine
and direct the manner and place of tamng all the shares -of
national banking associations located witlun the State, subject
only to the two restrictions, that the tax shall not be at a.
greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital m the
hands of individual citizens of such State, and that the shares
of any national banking association owned by non-residents of
any State shall be taxed in the city or town where the bank is
located, and not elsewhere."
It is contended that no tax is thereby authorized upon the
national bank itself as a corporation, nor upon the personal
property of any such, and that, therefore, these shares inthe
N.Tational Bank of Redemption are exempt from taxation by
virtue of their ownership. This, however, is not a reasonable

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

interpretation of the language of the section. The manifest
intention of the law is to permit the State in which a national
bank is located to tax, subject to the limitations prescribed, all
the shares of its capital stock without regard to their ownership. The proper inference is, that the law permits, in the
particular instance, the taxation of the national banks owning shares of the capital stock of another national bank by
reason of that ownership, on the same footing with all other
shares.
Other questions have been raised by counsel for the defence.
The right of the plaintiff to sue is denied, on the ground that

the right of action belongs to the owners of the shares taxed;
the right of recovery is denied, on the ground that the payment by the plaintiff was voluntary, and the right of action,
if it exists, it is alleged is against the collecting officer, and not
the city of Boston. These questions we have not considered it
necessary to examine or decide, preferring to rest our judgment upon the validity of the tax.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly
.Afflrmed.
MR. JusrcE BRADLEy, Y-n. JusrioE GR Y, and MRi. JusmoE
BLATooRD did not sit in this.case or take any part m the

d~csion.

ARTU1

S EXEOUTORS v. "BUTTD.RFIELD.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUrT COURT OF THE UTNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 161. Argued February O,18SS.-Declded March 19, 1888.

"Goat's hair goods," composed of 80 per cent of goat's hair and 20 per
cent of cotton, used chiefly for women's dresses, and which were Imported into the United States between January 2-, 1874, and June 25,
1874,, were subject to the duty imposed by the act of July 14, 1870, 16
Stat. 264, c. 255, § 21, upon "manufactures of hair not otherwise herein
provided for," as modified by the act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 231, and

