OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
-Syllabus.

The plaintiff, in her present bill, filed in 188,4 does not allege any fraud or undue influence in the original transaction
in 1872, by which she purchased the property and gave the note
and mortgage for part of the price; but, on the contrary, claims
title under that purchase, and offers to pay the amount of the
mortgage note and interest, deducting any rents and profits
received by the defendants.

The uncontradicted testimony of

well informed witnesses proves that at the time of the settlement in 18T the value of the undivided half of the land did
not exceed the amount of the mortgage, -althoughit has since
greatly increased because of the introduction of irrigation.
In the state of facts then existing, the settlement appears to
have been a prudent and fair one, made deliberately and under
advice of competent counsel. Independently of any question
of laches, therefore, no ground is shown for maintaining this
suit.
.Decree reversed,and case remandedto ae Circuit Court, witk
directions to dism'es the bill.

- DOO"LAH v. CARR.
.BEOR TO TEM OMOrIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOPT
DISTRICT OF CAIFORNI..
-o. 34. Argued October 24,25, i88.-Depided November 2i, 1887.

The proper Circuit Court of the United States has )urisdiction, irrespective
of the citizenship of the parties, of an action in ejectment, in which the
controversy turns upon the validity of a patent of land from the United
States.
Want of power In an officer of the Land Office to istue a land patent may
be shown in an action at law by extrinsic evidence, although the patent
may be issued with aki the forms of law required for a patent of public
land.
Land within the limits of a valid Mexican grant (which grant was sub judce
when the grant of public land mnaid. of the Pacific :Railroads was made
by the act of July 1, 1862, as amended July 2, 1864, and March 3, 1865),
If found after the location of the railroads to be within the prescribed
limits on either side of them, did not pass to the corporations as ,, public

DOOLAN v. CARR.
Citations for Defendant in Error.
land," if It was described by specific boundaries; or If it was known
or described by a name by which it could be identified; but if it was
described as a specific quantity within 'designated outboundarles containing a greater area, only so much landwithin the outboundaries,as is
necessary to cover the specific quontity granted was excluded from the
grant to the railroad companies.
Official documentary evidence of a Mexican grant which has been confirmed
by the proper authorities" of the United States, is admissible on the trial
of an action In ejectment, to show a want of power in the Land Office
to issue a patent for the same land as "public land" under the statutes
grantingA, public land" to aid In the construction of the Pacific ailroads.
It would seem also that parol testimonyi s admissible to identify the land as
coming within the terms of the grant.

IEoxrmmr. Verdict for the plaintiff and judgment on the
verdict. Defendants sued out this writ of error. The case is
stated in the opinion.
Mr. .tichael
uZlant for plaintiffs re.error cited: -Newall
v. Sanger,92 U. S. 761; Kansas Pac c 1Bai(roadv. .Dunmeyer,
113 U. S. 629, 642; _Roserans v. Douglass, 52 Cal. 213; -.eavdnwortk do. Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; Wilox
v. Jtackson,.13 Pet. 498, 509; Easton v. Salisbury,21 How. 426;
H,8ee v. St. Lauiq Public Schoo78, f8 How. 19; .?eichart v.
.eps, 6 Wall. 160, -Polkv. TFendtill, 9 Cranch, 87; Carr v.
Quigley, 57 Cal. 394; .oLaughlin
v. Powell, 50 Cal. 64;
oLdieghlin v. -Fowler,52 Cal. 203; _Bobion v. Forest, 29
Cal. 311; .P rkoer v. .1)u, 4-7 Cal. 554;
rnan v. 6iWflTt, 2T
Cal. 87; Z ernan v. G ,iftA, 31 Cal. 462; 31-Cal. 580; Kuaght
v. 1?oche, 56 Cal. 15; Summers v. Dickinson, 9 Cal. 551; -Doll
v. -feador, 16 Cal. 295 ; Comnecticut. Ins. Co. v. BSchaefer, 94
U. S. 457, Unted States v. .inor, 114 U. S. 233, 240 ; Yerry
v. Aegerle, 24 Cal. 609; S C. 85 Am. Dec. 81; Xytle v. A.kansas, 9 How. 314; aunning;Aam v. Ashley, 14 How. 377;
&oe
.uenbergv. H imarn , 21 Wall. 44; Shermnan v. .
cok, 93
U. S. 209, and cases cited; Pattersonv. 7'eim, 11 "Wheat.380;
Jaokson v. -Lawto, 10 Johns. 23; s. C. 6 Am. Dec. 311; Langdeanv.H nes, 21 Wall. 521; IFigktv.1?oseberry,121 U. S. 488.
ir. Walter H. Smith (with whom were . A. '. B itton,
and .M. A. B. Browne on the brief) for defendant m error
cited: Gold Masking Company v. -eyes, 96 U. S. 199; Beich-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

art v.Fe6p8, 6 Wall. 160; Quian v. Czqpmw, 111
Twnpk}e .?oa v. .Myers,. 6 S. & R. 12; .aytiat
Xiriford , 3 Halsted (8 N. J.L.), 181, Darne v.
Yerg. T; Buril v. Ifahant Bank, 2 MNet. 163; S.

U. S.445;
Murok -v.
1icbmn8, 4

C. 85 Am.
Dec. 395; Commercial Bank v. .- orhigkt, 22 Wend. 834;
S. C. 834 Am. Dec. 31,; ,Lovett v. Steam Saw Xill, 6 PIage,
54; Reed v. Badey, 17 Ill. 321; Johnmon v. Towlky, 13
Wall. 12, Frend v. _ya, 98 U. S. 169; M rhardt v. Hogeboom, 115 U. S. 67; A9Aepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Moore v.
_Robbim', 96 U. S.530; Unrited &ates v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 38;
Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104
U. S. 686; .Xoore v. WTFZ1nson, 13 Gal. 418; .Beardv. -edery,
3 Wall. 478; Stee v. Snelting -0o., 106 U, S. 447.
-]z. JusrTi

KaxaR delivered the opinion of the court.

William B. Carr, the defendant in error, brought his action
of ejectment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California against James Doolan and James McCue,
to recover possession of 820 acres of land,described as "the
east half of section 27,township 2, range 1 East of the Mount
Diablo base and meridian, of the public land surveys of the
United States of America, in the State of California," and he
had judgment for the land.
No citizenshnp of either party is alleged, and this is urged as.
a ground of reversal in this court, to which the case has been
brought by a writ of error. It, however, appears very clearly
that the controversy turns upon the validity of the patent from
the United States under which plainfiff claims title, and which
was denied by the -defendants. The Circuit Court for the District of California, therefore, -hadjurisdiction of the case as one
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States
within the meaning of the act of March 3, 18-75: i8 Stat. 4'70.
On the trial before the jury the plaintiff introduced in evidence a patent from the United States to the Central acific
Railroad Company for the land -in
question, among many other
tracts, dated February 28, 1874. This patent purported to be
issued under "the act of Congress approved July'lst, 1862, as
amended by the act of.Suly 2d, 1861, to aid in the c6istruction

DOOLAN v. CARR.
Opinion of the Cow. b.

of a railroad and'telegraph line from the Missouri River to the
Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the government the use of the
same for postal, military, and other purposes, and the act of'
March 3d, 1865," -and in accordance with the laws of the State
of California, by which the Central Pacific Railroad Company
and the Western Pacific Railroad Company were consolidated.
Although the introduction of this patent was objected to by
the defendants, it appears upoi its face to be valid, and it was
therefore properly admitted as evidence. The plaintiff also
introduced a deed of conveyance from the Central Pacific
Railroad Company to himself, and, after further evidence as
to the use and occupation of the. land, its value, and that the
amount in controversy was over ten thousand dollars, rested.
The defendants, thereupon, in order to show that the patent
to the railroad company was issued without authority of law,
and therefore void, offered evidence to show "that on, to wit,
April 10, A&D. 1839, the Mexican government granted to Jos6
:Tori~ga and Robert Livermore a certain tract of land known
by the name Las Pocitas,' and which embraced all the land
within the following boundaries, viz.: Bounded on the north
by the Lomas de las Cu~vas, on the east by the Sierra de
Buenos Ayres, on the south by the dividing line of the establishment of San 'os6,and on the west by the rancho of Don
,Tos6 Dolores Pacheco, co'ntaining in all two square leagues,
provided that quantity be contained within ihe said boundaies; and if less than that quantity be found to be contained
therein, then that less quantity and all of said, described tract
of land.
"That the departmental assembly of the Mexican nation
confirmed said grant to said WToriga and Liveiinore on, to
wit, May 22d, 1840.
"That on, to wit, February 27th, 1852, said lToriga and
Livermore petitioned to the board of land comnissioners appointed under the provisions of the act of Congress, approved
Maron 3d, 1851, entitled 'An act to ascertain and settle the.
private land claims in the State of Califoria,' to have said
grant confirmed, and on, to wit, the 14th "dayof February, A.D.
1854, the said board of land comussioners confirmed the sam

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinon of the Court.

to said lorigga and Livermore, their heirs and-assigns, and the
decree of confirmation so made to s&id Me*ican grant by said
board of land commissioners described the'boundaxies thereof
to be: On the north by the ILomas de las OuAvas, on the east
by the Sierra de Buenos Ayres, on the south b. the dividing
line of the establishment of San Jos6, and on the west by the
rancho of Don Jos6 Dolores -Pacheco, provided that within the
same no greater quantity than two square leagues were found
tor be contained; and if a less quantity should be found therein,
then that less quantity was confirmed and all of 'aid-described
.tract of land.
"That the United States District Court for the 1orthern
District of California, on appeal to it from said decree of the
board of land commissioners, duly confirmed said Mexican
grant on, to.wit, February 18th, .D. 1859, to the same extent
and by the same description, and under the same conditions as
said board of land- commissioners had done, and the Supreme
Court of the U4ited States, at the December term, A.D. 1860,
affirmed the said decree of said United States District Court
and every part thereof.,
"That during the year 1865 an official 'durvey of the lands
so confirmed to said IXoriga and Livermore was made by or
under the directions of the surveyor general of the United
States for the State of California, and which was duly
.approved by said surveyor general in the year A.D. 1866, and
which .survey 'included the half section of land described in
the complaint herein; that said survey was set aside by the
Secretary of the Interior in the year A.D. 1868, and a new

survey ordered to be made of said Mexican grant within the
boundaries set forth in said decrees, which should contain but
two square leagues of land, or therekbouts.
"That in March, 1869, the Unife States surveyor general
for California caused the said Mexican grant to be surveyed
and designated in accordance with the claims thereof and
-within the boundaries set forth in said decrees of confirmation,
the amount so segregated consisting of about two square
leagues, in accordance with the said order of the Secretary of
the Interior, and said -survey was approved by said-suryeyo.

DOOLAN v. CARR.
Opinion of the Court.

general on, to wit, May 11th, 1870, and the said survey was
approved by the Connmissioner of the- General Land Office on,
to wit, itarch 1st, 1871; and said survey was finally approved'
by the Secretary of the Interior on, to wit, June 6th, 1811,
and on said last-named date the surplus (or sobrante) of the
land embraced within the boundaries contained in said grant
and in said decrees became freed and discharged from the
claims and reservation of said Mexican grant, and became
public land of the United States and a part of the public
domain thereof.
"That the entire half section of land described in the complaint herein is located and embraced within the boundaries
stated and tract described in and confirmed by the said decree
of the board of land commissioners of the Uiited States District Court and of the Supreme Court of the United States,
but it was not included within the tract so surveyed in MIarch,
1869, and finally approved on June 6th, A.D. 1871, as aforesaid,
as the final survey of said Mtexican grant, and said half section of land described in the complaint herein was held and
claimed as a part and parcel of said Mexican grant, and was
reserved as such continually from the 10th day of April, A.
1839, down to the 6th day of June, A.D. 1871, and on said lastnamed day it became for the first time public land of the
United States.
"That the line of the road of said Western Pacific Rilraoad
Company of California was definitely fixed under the provisions of said act of Congress on, to wit, the 30th day of
January, 1865, under and within the ifitent and meaning of
the provisions of the act of Congress of July 1st, 186P, entitled
'An act to.aid in the construction of a. railroad and telegiaph
line from the :Nissoun River to the Pacific Ocean,' and the
act amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, and that
on the-31st day of January, 1865, the lands within-the limits
designated by said acts of Congress as being granted to said
railroad company were withdrawn from pregmption, private
entry, and sale-under the-provisions of said acts, and that no
part of the lands described in the complaint has been taken
or used for any depot, shop, switch, turn-out or road-bed of

OCTOBER TEMI,,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

said railroad or of said railroad company; that said railroad
was completed prior to the year 1870."
The plaintiff objected to the proof thus offered to be made
by the defendants,, and to other proof not niaterial to the
point now under consideration, on the ground "that the
United States patent cannot be collaterally attacked in this

action; that it can be attacked by bill m equity only, that
the said United States patent and the recitals therein contained are conclusive e.vidence in this action that the legal title
of the lands therein described was granted and transferred by
the United States to the grantee named in said jatent, and,
taken in c6nnection with the deed from the railroad company

to the plaintiff, is conclusive evidence of the plaintiffs right to
recover."
The court sustained the objection, and refused to allow said
proof, or any part of it, to be made, to w. ich the defendants
excepted. The court then charged the jury that "1the patent
title to this land to the Central Pacific Railroad Company is
conclusive in this case. It cannot be attacked in a collateral
manner. If it can be attacked at all it is only by a direct
proceeding for the purpose of vacating the patent, and, without farther remark upon this, one way or the other, it may be
sufficient to say that I charge you the law is that, so far as
this case is concerned, the patent from the government to the
railroad company, the frst patent introduced here, is conclusive of the rights of the parties in this case."
To this charge the defendants excepted, and the case before
us turns upon the correctness'of the ruling of the court on the
proposition that in this action at law none of the evidence
offered by the defendants could be received to inpeach the
validity of the patent, and that such an issue as that attempted to be raised by the defendants could only be made by
a suit in equity to set it aside.
There is no- question as to the principle that where the
officers of the government have issued a patent in due form of
law, which on its face is sufficient to convey the title to the
land described in it, such patent is to be treated as valid in
actions at law, as distinguished from suits m equity, subject,

DOOLAN v. CARR.
Opinion of the Court,

however, at all times to the inquiry whether such officers had
the lawful authority to make a conveyance of the title. But
if thos officers acted without authority; if the land which
they purported to convey had never been within their control,
or had been withdrawn from that control at he time they undertook to exercise such authority, then their act was voidvoid for want of power in them to act on the subject-matter
of the patent, not merely voidable ; in which latter case, if
the circumstances justified such a decree, a direct proceeding,
with proper averments and evidence, would be required to establish that it was voidable, and should. therefore be avoided.
The distinction is a manifest one, although the circumstances
that enter into it are not always easily defined. It is, nevertheless, a clear distinction, established by law, and it has been
often asserted in this court, that even a patent from the gov-eminent of the United States, issued with all the foms of law,
may be shown to be void by extriisic evidence, if it be such
evidence as by its'nature is capable of showing a want of anthority for its issue.
The decisions of this court on this subject are so fall and
decisive that a reference to a few of them is all that is necessary. Polk-Is Lessee v. 1Venda., 9 Cranch, 87, Vow Orkans
v. United tates, 10 P et. 662, 730; .M7oo v. 'ackson, der.
McConnell, 13 Pet. 498, 509, Stoddard v. Ciamber', 2 How.
284, 317; .Eton v. Salisbury,21"How. 426, A8, .Reilart

-v. Fels,6 Wall. 160" Best v. -PoTl, 18 Wall. 112,117, leav
ivortk Railroadv. United $tates, 92 U. S.733; .Zrewkd v. Sanger,92 U. S. 761, sSirman v. Bu

, 93 U. S. 20;

nentin' Co:

v. Kemp, .10-1U. S. 636; Steel V. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 4e;
.ansas PaciRe Railway Co:v. _DVinmeyer, 113 1U. S.629, 642;

.eynolds v.Iron,Silver .Mhia/ g Co., 116 U. S. 687.
The case of Polks 1Lsse&-v. Tfendal is, perhaps, the' earliest
one in this court where this subject received full consideration.
That was an action of ejectment in the Oircuit'Oourt of the 'Uhted States for the Western District of Tennessee. On fhe trial,
the plaintiff, who was also the plaintiff m error, introduced and
relied upon a patent from the State of 1North Carolina, of the
date of April 17,1800, which included the land in controversy.
VOL. cx ,--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant then offered in evidence a patent issued by the
same State, dated August 28, 179.5, which also included the
land in dispute. 'The reading.of .thisprior patent was ebjected
to, but, the objection being oierruifed, the patont was read in
evidence. Testimony was then offered to impeach it, and it is.
upon this branch of the subject that the opinion of the court,
delivered by Chief Justice Mfarshall, is pertinent. After con*sidering the many guards which the statutes provide to secure
the regularity of grants and the incipient rights of individuals,
as well as to protect the state from imposition, he" expresses
the view, in language the substance of which ha' Leen often
since repeated, that, in genera a court of equity appears to be
a tribunal better adapted to the object of examining into, objections to a patent which affect its validity than a court of
law. He then says: " In general, then, a court of equity is
the,more eligible tribunal for these questions; and they ought
to be excluded from a court of lai. But there are cases in
which a grant is absolutely void; as where the state has no
title to the thing granted; or where the officer had no authority to issue the grant. In such cases, the validity of the
grant is necessarily examinable at law?' p. 99.
In that case, the court held that it could be shown, as a
defence to the patent, that the entries on which it was granted
were never made, and that the -iarrants were forgeries; in
which case no right accrued under the act of 17, and, no
purchase of the lind having been made from-the State, the
grant was void by the express words of the law, and that in
rejecting the testimony on this point the Circuit Court erred.
The judgment was, therefore, .reversed.
The case of 1kilcox v Jacks=o was an action of ejectnent
brought against Wilcox, the commanding officer at Fort Dearborn, to recover possession of land held by hun in that character. This land was entered under a preemption claini by
one Beaubean, who paid the purchase money and procured the
register's receipt therefor. He afterivards sold and conveyed
his interest to the lessor of the plaintiff. The question was,
whether the register's certificate, which seems to have been
treated as sufficient evidence of title if it was valid, could be

DOOLAN v. C0ARR.

6'
"621

Opinion of the Court.

impeached by testimony that the land was not subject to entry.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court on tb.s subj"e6t 'the ]anguage used in Elliot v. .Peirsol, 1 Pet. 328, 340, is quoted
with approval:
"Where a court has jurisdiction it has a- right.to aecide
every question which occurs in the cause; and whether its
decision be correct or otherwise, its- judgment, until reversed,
,is regarded as binding in every other court. But if it act without authority, its judgments and orders are regarded as nullities.
They are not voidabli, but simply void."
The court then proceeds,- "Now, tapply this. Even assuming that the decision of the register and receiver, in the absenpe
of fraud, would be conclusive as to the facts of the apblicant
then beingin possession, and his cultivation during the preceding year, because these questions are directly submitted to
them; yet if they undertake to grant preemptions in land
in which the law declares that they shall not be.granted, then
they-are acting upon a subject-matter clearly not within their
jurisdiction; as much so as if a court whose jurisdiction was
declared not to extend beyond a given sum should attempt to
take cognizance of a case beyond that sum." p. 511.
In &odd wr v. Mambers, which-was an action of ejeotment,
an attempt-was made t6 show that the defendant's patent -was
void. This court said in that case:
"The location of Coontz was made in .1818, and Ins survey
in 1818. At these dates there can be no question that all land
claimed under a French or Spanish title, which claim has been
fied with the recorder of land litles'-as the 'painti-s'"claim
had been-were reserved from sale by the acts of Congress
above stated. ' This reservation was continUed up to the 26th
of Mtay, 1829, when it ceased, until it was revived by the act
of 9th July, 1832, and, was continued until the final c~nimation of the plaintiffs' title by the act of 18.36. The defendant's
patent was issued the 16th of.July, 1832. So that it appears
that when the defendant's claim was entered, surveyed, and
patented, the land covered by it, so far as the lbcation interferes"
with the plaintiffs' survey, was not 'a; part of the .public land
authorized to be sold.' On the above facts the important ques-

OCTQBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

tion arises, whether the defendant's title is not void. That
this -is a question as well examinable at law as in chancery will
not be controverted. That the elder legaltitle must prevail in
the action of ejectment is undoubted. But the Inquiry here is,
whether the defendant has any title as against the plaintiffs.
And there seems to be no difficulty in answering the question,
that he.has not. His location was made on lands not liable to
be thus appropriated, but expressly reserved; and this was the
case when his patent was issued.

.

. N~o title can be held

valid which has been acquired against law, and such is the
character of the defendant's title, so far as it treifches on the
plaintiffs'.

.

. The issuing of a patent.is a ministerial act,

which must be performed according to law A patent is
utterly void and inoperative which is issued for land that had
been previously patented to another individual.

.

.

.

The

patent of the defendant having been for land.reserved from
such appropriation, is void, and also the survey of Coontz, so
far as either conflicts -with the plaintiffs' title."
These principles were recognized in and governed the deci.sion of the court in Easton v. Salisbwuj.
In 1?eichart v _Fe ps, which was an action-of ejectment,
the plaintiff claimed under two patents, of the dates of 1838
and 1853, which the court says 1'exhibit conclusive evidence of
-title if the land had not been previously granted, reserved, or
appropriated." This was permitted to be proved by the patent
of Governor St. Olair, dated February 12, 1799, duly registered in 1804, with a survey made in 1798. This was held to
be conclusive evidence that the land v as so reserved, and de•feated the patents of 1838 and 1853.
In Best v. Polke the plaintiff, in support of his title in-an
action of ejectment, produced a patent from the United States,,
dated March 18, 18-7, which seemed in all respects to be reg-ular, granting the section of land described to James Brown
in fee, who conveyed to Polk. The defendant, Best, being in
-possession, attempted to defeat this. patent by showing that
the land in question was reserved under the treaties of 1832
and 1834 with the Chickasaw Nation of Indians, which authorized fuembers of the tribe who desired to do so, and heads-

DOOLA N v. CARR.
Opnio4 of tlie\Gonrt.

bf families, to locate lands, which when so located were to be
reserved from sale or other disposition by the United States.
The defendant undertook to show that the laud on which he
was settled, which was the subject of controversy, had been
properly located by an Indian, and was therefore not liable to
sale at the time that Brown purchased it of the land officers.
The court below rejected the evidence because of certbin deficiencies in the certificate made by one Edmondson, a register
of the land office at Pontotoc, who certified that the land in
quest4on was located as a reserve by a Chickasaw Indian,
under the treaty,'in July, 1839. This court reversed the judgment.rendered in favor of plaintiff in the court below, holdingthat the certificate was sufficient, and that it showed that
under the treaty, and by the action of the Indian in settling
upon -it, and procuring.a certificate of that fact from the
proper officer, the land -had become reserved in the language
of the treaty, and that the patent under which the plaintiff
claimed was therefore void: citing also Polk'; lesee v. 1T~e.
dell, and Bagndt v. Bi.o dick, 13 Pet. 436.
In the case of Reynods v. Iron Silver liran,g Co.. 116 U. S.
687, decided last year; which was an action to recover possession of part of a vein or lode of mineral deposit, plaintiff
relied on a patent for a placer mine, and the contested vein
was within the lines of its superficial area extended perpendicularly. The statute on which this patent was issued declared
that it should not confer any right to veins known to exist
within it at the time the grant was made. Defendants offered
ontrgversy was known to
evidence to show that the -iemin
the patentee to exist at the time of his application for the
patent.
The Circuit Court charged the jury that because the defendants had shown no right whatever to the vein, but were
in possession as naked trespassers, they could not, in defence
of that possession, show this defect 'in plaintiff's tit.e. But
this court (the Chief Justice dissenting) held that this ruling
was erroneous, and that, as in all other actions-of ejectinent,
plaintiff must recover on the strength of his own title, and not
on the weakness of defendants'.

OCTOBER TERMt, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

With the principles so well established by these decisions, of
the right in al. action at law to prove by competent extrinsic
evidence that a patent of the United States is void for want
of -ower in the officers to issue it, and the facts which show
that want of power, we come to the case of - w-aU v. Sw er,
92 U. S. 761,'which establishes the proposition that laud covered by a Mexican claim was not public land within the meaning of the act of Congress maling the grant to the railroads,
but wa. reserved from the granting clause of those statutes.
Ini Leveizwortz, La~wrence &c. Railroad v. United States,
92 U. S. 733, decided at the same time with le racd v. Sanger,
the opinions in both cases being delivered by Mr. Tustice
Davis, the question of the right to show this want of authority
was also very fully discussed. That was a case in which the
railroad company had brought suit in equity to establish its
title to tracs of land lying within the Osage country, in Kansas, which had been certified to the governor of that State as
part of the grant made by Congress to aid in'the construction
of certain railroads. This was done ,bythe supposed authority
of the act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 772i granting every alternate section of lanl in the State of Kansas, designated by odd
numbers, for ten sections m width, on each side of said road,
and of each of its branches.

It also contained the usual reservation, that in case it should
appear when the line or route of said railroad and branches
was definitely fixed, that the United States had sold any ofthe land granted, or that the right of prebmption or homestead
settlement had attached to the same, then the right was given
to select other lands; and it provided that any and all lands
theretofore reserved to the United States by the acts of Congress, or m any other manner by competent authority, for the
purpose of aiding in any object of 'internal improvement, or
for any other purpose whatever, "be, and the same are hereby,
reserved to the United States from the operation of the act."
The route of the road in that case was located through lands
which had belonged to the Osage Indians, and to which their
title was not extinguished until September 29, 1865. This
court held that, notwithstanding the generility of the granting

DO0LA.N v.- CARR.
Op inio of the Court.

clause, it was not intended by that statute to grant anything
but2pubic lands-of the United States at the date of the grant,
and that the reservation clause was sufficient to except these
lands, then in the possession of the Indians, out pf the grant,
even if the general language could be construed to include them.
The court says: "AA special exception of this land was not
necessary in these grants, because the policy which dictated
them confined them to land which Congress could rightfully
bestow, 'without disturbing existing relations and producing
vexatious conflits. The legislation which reserved it for any
purpose, excluded it from disposal as the public lauds are usually disposed of."
In the case of ewhuhalZ v. Banger the object of the suit was
to determine the ownership of a quarter section of land in
California. The patent under which the appellee claimed was
ispued in 1870, under the act of 1862 granting lands to railroad
companies for the purpose of constructing a iailroad to the
Pacific Ocear.i. 12 Stat. 489, 492. One of the companies was
the WesterK Pacific IRailroad Company, to which was granted
every alternate section of pubi lend, designated by odd numbers, within ten miles on each side of its road, not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to
which a homestead or preemption claim may not have attached
at the .time the line of the road was definitely fixed. The act
also declared, as in other casgs, that it should not defeat dr
impair any prefmption, homestead, swamp land, or other ]4ful claim, nor include any government reservation or mineral
lands, or thd improvements of any bonajUfe settler. The appellant assertedl title under a patent of the United States of later
date, which recited that the land-was within the exterior limits
of a Mexican grant called :Noquelamos, and that a patent had,
by mistake, been issued to the company. It was conceded that
the land in controversy fell within the- limits of the railroad
grant as enlarged by the amendatory act of 186, 13 Stat. 356,
358, the same act now under consideration, "and the question
arises," said the court, "whether lands within the boundaries
of an alleged Mexiean or Spanish grant; which was then sub
jucdicd, are public within the meaning of the acts of Congress

OCTOBER TERMi,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

under which the patent whereon the appellee's title rests was
issued to the railroad company."
It will be seen that this is the precise question presented in
the case under consideration, and the court, referring to the
preceding case of Leavenwortk, lawrenve c. Railroad v
United States, 92 U. S. 733, and reciting the fact that in that
case they confined a grant of every alternate section of " Zand"
to such whereto the complete title was absolutely vested in the
United States, proceeds- "The acts which govern this case are
more explicit, and leave less room for construction. The words
' publi6 lands' are habitually used in our legislation to describe
such as are subject to sale or other disposal under general laws.
That they were so employed in this instance is evident from
the fact that to them alone could the order withdrawing lands
from preeinption, private entry, and sale apply" The court
then goes on to show that the status of lands included in a
Spanish or Alexican claim pending before tribunals charged
with the duty of adjudicating it, was such that the right of
private property could not be impaired by a change of sovereignty, and that such lands were not included in the phrase
"public lands" of these specific railroad grants, and that until
such claims were finally decided to be invalid they were-not
restored to the body of public lands subject to be granted.
Those Mexican claims were often described, or attempted to
be described, by specific boundaries. They were often claims
for a definite quantity of land within much larger outboundaries, and they were frequently described by the name of a place,
or ranche. To the extent of the claim -whenthe grant was for
land -with specific boundaries, or known by a particular name,
and to thi extent of the quantity claimed withm outboundaries
contaimng a greater -area, they are excluded from the grant
to the railroad company. Indeed, this exclusion did not depend upon the validity of the claim asserted, or its final establishment, but upon the fact that there existed a claim of a right
under a grant by the Mexican government, which was yet undetermined, and to which therefore the phrase "public lands,"
could not attach, and which the statute did not include, although
it might be found -vithin the limits prescribed on each side of
the road when located.

DOOLAN v. CARR.
Dissenting QpImon: Waite, C. J.

It is objected that the testimony offered in the present case,
and rejected by the court below, to prove the facts concerning
the Mexican grant -which would defeat the patent to the railroad company, is parol, and that even conceding the right to
assail the patent in au action at law founded on the title conveyed by it, this cannot be done by parol testimony. But
without deciding in this case how far such testimony can be
received in an action at law for that purpose, it is sufficient
to say that the evidence rejected by the court below in the
present case is entirely documentary and matter of record,
being the written evidence of the grant by the Mexican government, of its confirmation by the Land Commission of Cai•fornia, of the affirmance of the award of that commission by
the District Court of the United States, and by this court, and
of the record of the two surveys made by the surveyor of the
United States, the latter confirmed by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, showing the location and confirmation of
the Mexican grant, and the dates at which all those transactions occurred. We do not doubt that this evidepce -was admissible for the purpose for which it was offered, and if any
oral testimony were necessary to identify the land in controversy as coning within the Mexican grant., and the surveys of
the Land Office, under the decisions of the courts, we do not
thinl it would be inadmissible, although it is not clear that
any such was necessary or was offered.
For the radical error of the court in rejecting this evidence
and in the instructions given to the jury on the same point,
TZe judgraent is 'evensed, and the ease ivmranded to the CUcuit Court/or a new trial.
Mm. Cum'v FsTicsn WA=x

dissenting.

I feel compelled to withhold my assent .to this judgment.
The ground of my dissent is not that in a proper case the validity of a patent of the United States for the conveyance of
lands may not be attacked in a suit at law by proving that it
was issued without the requasito authority, but ,hat this is not
a proper case for the application of that rulc. To show that I

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting OpImon: Waite, C. J3

recognize the existence of the right to make such proof, if the
person who offers it is in a position to do so, it is only necessary to refer to Simmons v. W~agner, 101 *U. S. 260, where, as
the organ of the court, I announced its decision, that one in
possession under a certificate issued by a proper officer in the
regular course of his official duty, showing that lie had
bought and paid for the land, might successfully defend an
action of ejectment brought against hn by the holder of a
patent issued upon an entry by another party made long after
his rights accrued; and this because, after the purchase under
which he was in possession the land was no longer a part of
the public domain, and the officers of the United States had
no authority in law to sell it a second time.
In my opimon, however, such proof can only be made by
one who holds a. right at law or in equity .which is prior in
time to that of the patentee, or by one who claims 'Under the
United States by a subsequent grant or some authorized recognition of title. Unless I have misinterpreted the cases on this
subject, that has always been the doctrine. of this court.
In .PoMls Zessee v. lWendaU, 9 Cranch, 81, the controversy
was between two persons, one holding under a patent issued
by the State of North Carolina, dated August 28, 1795, and
the other under another patent for the same land, issued by
the same State, dated April 17, 1800, and the question was,
whether as against the second patent the first was good. In
*Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, the defendatlt was an officer
of the United States, in possession of a military post under
the a thority of the government, and the plaintiff was the
hiolde4 of certificates of the register and receiver of the proper
land oice, showing thit he bad bought and paad for the land
under I preeiption entry The officer in possession, holding
under and for the United States, was allowed to prove that at
the time of the entry and purchase the land had been reserved
from the mass of Piublic lands, and that its sale by the-officers
of the government was unauthorized and void. In Stoddard
v. Chambers, 2 How 981, the controversy was between one
claiming under a Spanish grant and a patentee under the location of a New Madrid certificate. The confirmation of th.

DOOLAN v. C'APR.
DissentIng'OpIlnon: Waite, C. T.

grant was not made until after the location, but as the right
of the grantee -was prior in time to that of the New Madrid
claimant , he was permitted to show that the Ihnd was reserved
from sale, and consequently the location of the certificate was
unauthorized, and the patent thereunder invalid. .nEazsto v.
Salisbnty, 21 How. 426, the question arose upon substantially
the same facts, and was decided in the same way. In Reickart
v. Fe ps, 6 Wall. 160, the -holder of a French settler's claim,
recognized in the grant by Virginia to the United States of
the northwest territory, and confirmed or patented by Gover-nor St. Olir, under the act of June 20, 1788, was permitted to
contest the validity of patents issued by the United States f6r
the same land, one in 1838 and one in 1853, on the ground
tha the land had "been previously granted, reserved frQm
sale, or appropriated," and therefore the patents were inoperative and void. In Best v. rPoll,18 Wall. 112, the parties were
the holder of a title under a treaty of the United States with
the Ohickasaw Nation of Indians and a junior patentee. The
holder of the elder title was permitted to show that when the
claim was made under which the subsequent patent was issued.
the land had been, "previously granted, reserved from sale, or
appropriated," and consequently no title could be acquired
under it. In 2Tewalg v. Sanger, 9 U. 8. 761, one side claimed
under a patent issued upon the same railroad grant that is involved in the present suit, and the other under a subsequent
patent which recited that "the land was within the exterior
linits of a Mexican grant called Moquelamos, and .that a
patent had, by mistake, been issued to the [railroad] company." Such a junior patentee was allowed in that suit to
-contest the validity of the elder patent to the company. The
case of LeaJvenworth, Lawrence and GaZveston, 1ailroadZ v.
Uited States, 92 U. S. 733,- was a suit brought by the United
States against the railroad company to quiet its title tb lands
claimed by the company under a land grant. That of Kansaa
Padifi .Ralwy v. .Dinryer,113 U. S. 629, so much relied
on, presented the question as between the claimant unadr a
railroad grant and the holder of a patent from the United
States Imssued on ahomestead entry made subsequently. Sher.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J.

mans v. Bwo7, 93 U. S. 209, was between the holder of a
patent of the United States and the holder of a patent from
the State of California, claiming under a prior grant from the
United States of the same land for school purposes. Te
Smelting Conjany Cases, .10-U. S. 636, and 106 U. S. 417,
were between those claiming under a patent for a placer mining claimi and certain occupants of lots in the town site of
Leadville which had been reserved from sale prior to the location of the claim. In Reyolds v..'rn Silver .Mning CMonpay, 116 U. S. 687, the question was not one of admitting
proof to invalidate a patent, but as to the legal effect of a
patent for a placer mining claim, and it was held not to include veins or lodes within the boundaries of the claim as
lovated on the surface and extended vertically downwards, if
known to exist when the patent was issued. In TWight v.
.ose~erry, 121 U. S. 488, decided at the last term, one party
held under a conveyance by the State of California of a tract
of land which the State claimed under the grant by the United
States of swamp and overflowed lands, and the other under a
patent from the United States issued upon a preemption entry.
Many more cases of a similar character might be cited, but it
is needless to pursue them further. They establish beyond all
question that, if one holds under an older title, or if he is in a
position under a junior claim to represent the title of the government, he may attack the validity of a patent in a suit at
law on the ground that it was issued without proper authority.
On the other hand, it seems to me equally well settled, that
if he who seeks to contest the patent is a volunteer, a mere
intruder, he will not be heard. Thus, in.
Hoof-kagle v. Andersoa,
7 Wheat. 212, the contest was between the holders of two
Yirgiia military land warrants, who had made their entries
on the same tract of land. One entered and got his patent
eighteen months before the other located his warrant. At the
'trial the holder of the junior'warrant sought to show that the
former grant was "obtained contrary to law, being founded on
a warrant which was issued by fraud or mistake;" but Chief
JTustice Mrarshall, in delivering the opihion of the court, said:
"The title of the respondent to the particular tract iriluded

DOOLAN v. CARR.
Dissenting Opimon. Waite, C. T.

in his patent was complete before that of the appellants Commenced. It is not doubted that a patent appropriates land. Any
defects in the preliminary steps, which are required by law, are
cured by the patent. It is a title from its date, and has always
been held conclusive against all those whose rights did not commence previous to its emanation. Courts of equity have considered an entry as the commencement of title, and have
sustained a valid entry against a patent.founded on a prior
defective entry, if issued after such valid entry was made. But
they have gone no farther. They have never sustained an entry
made after the date of the patent. They have always rejected
such claims. The reason is obvious. A patent appropriates
the land it covers; and that land, being no longer vacant, is
no longer subject to location. If the patent has been issued
irregularly, the government -may provide means for repealing
it; but no individual has a right to annul it, to consider the
land as still vacant, and appropriate it to himself." pp. 214,
215. This seems to me to be the true rule; and one way the
government may adopt to annul a patent which has been issued
without authority of law, is to grant the land to another, and
thus clothe the new grantee with its own power to test the
validity of the former proceedings to divest it of title. Such a
grantee will thus be made to represent the United States by
authority, and he may sue for the land. With such a title, or
something equivalent to it, the courts may properly, as has
been done heretofore, allow him to assert his own title, that is,
the title of the government, against one which was apparently
granted before. Such an attack on the title would be direct,
not collateral, as authority to proceed had been given by the
government for that purpose.
In Cooper v. Robert.1, 18 How. 173, the suit was brought by
one holding title under a patent of the State of Michigan conveying a tract of what was claimed to be school land, against
one who had got into possession under a lease by the Secretary
of War for mining purposes. The title of the -State was
adjudged to be good as against the United States and the
defendant in possession. The defendant then objected to the
plaintiff's right of recovery because "the officers of the State

OOTOI3ER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. T.

-violated the statuteg of Michigan in selling the lands after they
were known, or might have been known, to contain minerals2
As to this, Mr. Justice Campbell, speaking for the court, p. 182,
said: " Without a nice inquiry into these statutes, to ascertam
whether they r.eserve such lands fron sale, or into the disputed
fact whether they were known, or might have been known, to
contain minerals, weare of. opinion that the defendant is not in
a condition to raise the question on this issue. The officers of
the State of Michigan, embracing the chief magistrate of the
State, a-d who have the charge and suierinteaidence of this
property, certify this sale to have been made pursuant to law,
and have, clothed the purchaser with the most solemn evidence
of title." The defendant does not claim in privity with Michigan, but holds an adverse right, and is a trespasser upon the
land to which her title is attached. Michigan has not complained of the sale, and retains, so far as this case shows, the
price paid for it. Under thdse circumstances we must regard
the patent as conclusive of the fact of a valid and regular sale
on this issue2
So in _Field v. S'eabury, 19 How. 323, the same rule appears.
There it was said that the question whether a grant from A
sovereignty or by legislative authority was obtained by fraud
was exclusively between the sovereignty maling the grant and
the grantee. It seems to me clear that the same rule applies
to questions of illegality. The case of iSpecer v. 1epsky, 20
How. 264; is equally significant. There the question was as to
the vallcity of a Mexican grant, and the court refused to investigate the fairness of the grant at the instance of one who had
11entered without a color of title," and m so doing said, again
l either the State
speaking through Mr. Justice Campbell: "N
of Coahuila and Texas, nor the Republic of Texas, nor the
State of Texas, has taken measures to cancel this grant, nor
have they conferred on the defendant any commission to
vindicate thenm" fr6m wrong; He is a volunteer. The doetrin~s of the court do not favor such a litigant."
The last case in this court to which I will refer in the present
connection is Mriardtv. B'ogaoom, 115 U. S. 67. There the
suit was brought by one claiming title under a patent of tre

DOOLAN v. CARR.
Dissenting Opimon. Waite, C. S.

United States issued to a pregmption settler, against one -who
contended the patent was void because the lands were, at the
time of the preenaption entry, swamp and overflowed lands
which passed to the State of California under an act of Congress passed in 1850. As a defence to the action the defendant
offered to prove the character of the land, but we held this'
offer was properly denied because he wat, as to the land in dispute, "a simple intruder, without claim or color of title. Hle
was, therefore, in no position to call in question the validity of
the patent of the United States, . . . and require the
plaintiff to vindicate the action of the officers of the Land
Department in issuing it."
In some of the state courts the same ruling has been made.
Thus, in CromveZin v. Xinter, 9 Alabama, 594, before the
Supreme Court of Alabama in 1846, it was decided that "a
patent fraudulently obtained, or which has issued in violation
of law, is void, and does not authorize a recovery against a party
in possession under color of title. But a mere intruder cannot
insist on the invalidity of the patent." And so in DoZt v.
_3feadoi, 16 Cal. 295, it was held by the Supreme Court of
California, in 1860, that "a patent, not void upon its face,
cannot be questioned, either collaterally or directly, by persons who do not show themselves to be in privity with a
common or paramount source of title;" and the cowl, in
delivering its opinion, was careful to say, "the point here is
as to the statm of the party who can raise any question as to
its [the patents] validity, when it is regular on its face.'
I eannot but believe this is the true doctrine. If the government is satisfied with what has been done, all others must be;
and it will be deemed in law to be satisfied, unless it proceeds
itself to correct the error or authorizes some oue else to do so.
It only remains to consider what position Doolan and McCue
occupy in this litigation. The land was palentdil to the Central Pacific Railroad Company February 28, 1874, and the railroad company, conveyed to Carr, the plaintiff below, Tune 10,
18714. 1o atteipt has been made by the United States, so
far as this record discloses, to annul the patent. On the 10th
of November, 1882, Doolan and McCue each entered on 160

OCTOBER TERM; 1887.
Dissenting Opinion. Waite, C. J.

acres of the land under a claim of pregmption settlement.
Each of them then made and subscribed a declaratory statement of his intention to claim and preempt the land on which
he had settled under the laws of the United States, and presented it to the register of the proper land office; but he refused
to receive it on the ground of the existence of the patent to
the railroad company
Thi is' all the claim of title which
they have; but the decisions are uniform to the effect that
what had thus been done conferred on them no rights as
against the United States. Certainly it gave them no right
to represent the United States in a suit to avoid the patent
which had been issued.
In Fri5e v. WFhitney, 9 Wall. 187, it appeared that in
March, 1862, this court decided that what had been supposed
to be a valid Mexican grant of the Soscol Ranch was void for
want of authority in the Mexican government to make it. At
the time of this decision Frisbie was in possession of the quarter section involved in the suit under the Mexican title. Whitney afterwards took forcible possession of the same quarter
section and claimed to hold it as a, settler under the pregmption laws of the United States. He applied to the proper land
officers to make his declaration under the statute but they
refused to receive it. On the 3d of March, 1803, Congress
passed an act, c. 116, 12 Stat. 808, by which the bona,§de purchasers under the Mexican title were allowed to buy the lands
from the United States. Frisbie availed himself of this statute
and got his patent. Whitney then sued him for a conveyance
of the legal title because of the alleged superior equity which
li, Whitney, bad acquired by his preemption settlement. This
court however decided that a settlement on the public Jands of
the United States, no matter how long continued, conferred no
right against the government, and, it was added, "the land
continues subject to the absolute disposing power of'Congress
until the settler'has made the required proof of settlement and
improvement and' has paid the requisite purchase money"
For this reason the title of Frisbie was sustained and the bill
dismissed. The Fosemite Talley Case, 15 Vall. IT, is to the
same effect.

DOOLAN v. CARR.
Dissenting Ophnon. Waite, C. t.

It has also been held that a right of pregmption can never
be acquired by intrusion upon the actual possession of another.
T'renouth4 v. Bn -Francisco,100 U. S. 251; Atherton v. Zow-

ler, 96 1U. S. 513. .In the present case, Carr alleges that he
was in possession when the entry was made by. Doolan and
lMc~ue, and this is not denied except by saying that Carr was
not ousted at any time while he was the owner of the land.
As these parties have received from the government no
recognition of their preEmption entries, therefore, and have
not paid the purchase money, they stand before the law as
mere volunteers and intruders on the possession of the patentees. They do not and cannot represent the title of the United
States as against the patent, and are not entitled to be heard
in opposition to it. As to them, in their present situation, the
land was as muc, segregated from the public domain by the
issue of the patent as it would have been if there were no dispute about the authority for its issue.
To show that Congress has been accustomed- to treat such
pregmption settlers as mere intruders and entitled to no consideration by the government, it is only necessary to refer to
the act for the relief of purchasers of parts of the Soscol
Ranch, just cited, and the act passed %larch 3, 1887, c. 376 91
Stat. 556, which directs the Secretary of the Interior immediately to adjust, in accordance with the decisions of this court,
each of the land grants made by Congress to aid in the con-

struction of railroads, dkd theretofore ufadjusted, and to deinand from the several companies a relinquishment of their
title to all lands that had been erroneously certified or patented. It there provides . § 4, that if any of the lands so erroneously certified or patented, with a few specified exceptions,
hwae "been sold by the grantee company to citizens of the
United States, or to persons who have declared their intention
to become such citizens, the person or persons so purchasing in
good faith, his heirs or assigns, shall be entitled to the land so
purchased, upon making proof of the fact of such purchase at
the proper land office, within such time and under such rules
as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, after
the grants respectively shall have been adjusted, and patents
VOL. c.-V-41

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

of the United States-shall issue therefor, and shall relate back
to the date of the original certification or patenting, and the
Secretary of the Interior, on behalf of the United States, shall
demand payment from the company which has so disposed of
such lands of an amount equal to the government price of
similar lands; and in case of neglect or refusal of such- company to make payment as-hereafter specified, within ninety
days after the demapd shall have been made, the AttorneyGeneral shall cause suit or suits to be brought against such
company for the said amount."
I cannot believe that one whose claim to rights under the
laws of the United States is thus ignored by Congress in-what
was decided in .Fisbiev. TFkiney, vbi .pra,to be valid legislation, can avail himself of a want of authority in the officers
of the government to issue a patent, which isvalid on its face,
to protect himself against eviction from the patented land on
which he has entered as a trespasser, and without any color of
title.
XOHNSOT -v. CHRISTIANT.
"PEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COUeT OF THE UITEI

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF .A1T

STATES FOR

SAS.

o. 195. Submitted April 2,288.-Declded April 16,1iS8.-Decree vacated May 4,1888.

In a suit in equity, in a Circuit Court, to obtain a release of land from liability under a deed of trust, the plaintiff had a decree. On an appeal to
this court by.the defendant, no evidence of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on the ground of citizenship was found in the record. This
court reversed the decree with costs, and remanded the case for further
proceedings.
The decree reversing the decree of the ,Circuit Court In this- case on the
ground-that the record contained no evidence of the jurisdiction of that
court -was then yacated, because the record showed that the suit was
brought to restrain the enforcement of a judgment in ejectment recovered
in the same Cirdult Court.

BaL m EoUIT.
The prayer of the bill was that the complainants "may have the order and: decree of the court releas-

