OCTOBER TER ,I 1887.
Syllabus.

Bh
.'rei Association v. .New TroT7k, 119 U. S. 110;
Phi dlp
.- rezger v. Bhely County Bail'oad, ante, 43. Whether that
court was right in its suggestion that it would have no jurisdiction to determine the validity of the second reissue if incidentally drawn in question m an action upon an agreement
between the parties, we need not consider; inasmuch as it
expressly declined to -pass upon any such. question, because it
held that, in- this action to recover royalties due under the
agrement, the defendant, while continuuig.to enjoy the privileges of the license, was estopped to deny the validity of the
patent, or of any reissue thereof. The decision was based upon
the contract between the parties; and the-court did not decide,
nor was it necessary for .the determination of the case that it
should decide, any question depending on the construction or
effect of the patent laws of the United States. Xinsman v.

Pardiurst,1S.How 289; Brown v. Atwell, 92 U. S. 327.
Judgment aff'med.

FELIX v. SOLAR FWEBER.
MlOll TO THE SUPERE E COURT OF THE STATE OF MILMOIS.

No. 1255. Submitted January 16, 1888.-Decided March 19, 1888.
At the time of an action in a State coirt upon an agreement to pay royalties
for making and selling a patented machine, evidence that the plaintiff
afterwards made umprovements in the machine, and that machines made
and sold by the defendant upon a later model furnished by a third person
were substantially like that mentioned m the agreement, was admitted,
notwithstanding the defendant objected to it as going to show that the
plaiutiff invented the new machine, and as collaterally attacking a patent
to the third person. Rd patent had then been introduced; and no ruling
-was requested or made upon the validity or construction of any patent,
or upon the legal effect of the evidence. The jury were instructed that
the plaintiff was entitled to recover royalties only upon micunes substantially like that mentioned in the agreement. A verdict was returned
for the plaintiff, and judgment rendered thereon, which was affirmed by
the highest court of the State. Held, that the record presented no federal question within the jurisdiction of this court on writ of error.

FELIX- v. SCHARNWEBER.
Statement of the Case.
A federal question, within the jurisdiction of this court on writ of error to
the highest.courb of a State, cannot be originated by a certificate of the
chief justice of that court, if no such question appears by the record to

have been Involved in the judgment.

Tms was an action of assumpsit, brought in the Circuit
Court of Cook County m the State of Illinois by Scharn-weberagainst Felix to recover royalties under the following
contract signed by both parties:
"Memorandum of agreement between Benjamin F Felix
and -William Scharnweber, both of the pity of Chicago, made
this 12th day of February, 1878, witnesseth: That whereas
the said Benjamin F. Felix and William Scharnweber are
joint proprietors of a certain patent for an improved rope reel,
and it is mutually decided between them that the interests of
both are best subserved by one of them having exclusive control of the manufacture and: sale of said reel: It is hereby
agreed that the said Benjamin F. Felix shall make such
arrangements as may appear most desirable to him for their
manufacture, and supervise and direct solely their sale. On
each and every rope reel sold, the said Wi]liam Scharawbber
is to'receive a royalty of one dollar, to be paid to him on the
last business day of each and every month. The said William
Scharaweber agreas not to nfiuufacture any rope reels whatever, or cause them to be manufactured, but can make sales
and report the same to Benjamin F. Felix, or Felix, Marston
& Blair, who will deliver and collect for the same."
The defendant pleaded non assumpsit, with notice that he
would prove a failure of consideration by the plaintiff's manufacturing rope reels and selling them to third persons.

At the trial, the plaintiff offered evidence that at first the
zeels made under the contract worked satisfactorily, but afterwards the defendant complained to him that they had too
many coiM and needed larger rolls; that.thereupon, in January, 1879, he made and showed to the defendant a model of
a reel with little pieces of cast iron on the wooden roller, so as
to form a screw to hold the flanges; -and that reels subsequently sold by the defendant, made from a later model furnished by one M ason, were of the same construction, except in

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

being wholly of iron; and that there was no difference in principle between them. The defendant objected to the admission
of tus evidence, as going to show that the laintiff invented
the new style of reel, and as collaterally attacking another
patent. The court admitted the evidence, and the defendant
excepted to its admission.
The defendant afterwards offered in evidence a patent issued
to Mfason on June 10, 1879, for the'iron reel, "for the purpose
of showing, or tending to show, that this reel was not the
same reel as that patented on January 29, 1878, and referred
to in the contract." The plaintiff objected to its admission,
on the ground that it had nothing -whatever to do with this
suit on the contract. But the court admitted It.
The defendant also put in evidence the patent of Tanuary
29, 1878, to Felix and Scharnweber; as well as evidence tending to show that the old style of. reel did not wotk well, and
was unsatisfactory to Ihurchasers, 'and called-Ifason as a witness, who testified that he invented the reel -described in hig
patent.
It was admitted on both sides that the defendant had made
and sold 33' of what he called the old style or original style
of rope reels, on which he had paid the plaintiff a royalty of.
one dollar each, and 2164: of what the defendant called the
new style, on which no royalty had been paid.
The court instructed the jury that if they should find from
the evidence that the plaintiff and defendant executed the contract sued on, and that the defendant thereafter sold rope reels
such. as or substantially like the rope reel"mentioned in the
contract, the -plaintiff was entitled to recover under the contract for all such rope reels sold by the defendant, if any.
The defendant excepted to this instruction, and requested
the court to instruct the jury as follows:
"This is an action on a contract -for royalty claimed upon
the sale of certain rope reels invented by the plaintiff and sold
by defendant or his firm. Under this contract, as alleged- in
the declaration, the defendant is liable only for royalty unpaid,
if any, on such reels sold by him or his said firm as are consemplated or covered by the. terms -ofthe contract.. He is not

FELIX v. SCHARNWEBER.
Statement of the Case.

liable in this suit for royalty on any other [and] different
reels, whether invented by hin, by the -plaintiff, or any one
else."
The court at first refused to give this instruction; and the
defendant excepted to the refusal The court then modified
the instruction requested, by inserting the word "and," as
above printed in brackets, and gave the instruction so modified.
The bill of exceptions contained these further statements:
"To which action of the court in modifying said instruction
the defendant duly excepted.
"Thereupon the court further charged the jury for the
defendant as follows: Therefore, unless you find from the
evidence that the defendant owes to the plaintiff royalty upon
a sale of the original Scharnweber reels made substantially as
these reels were made at the date of the contract between the
parties, then your verdict should be for the defendant.
"INo other instructions were given to the jury by the court."
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$2255. The defendant moved for a new trial; but, upon the
plaintiff's remitting the sum of $91 from the verdict, the
court overruled the motion. The defendant excepted to this
ruling, and judgment was rendered upon the verdict.
The defendant appealed to the Appellate Court for the
First District of Illinois, assigning for error the admission of
incompetent evidence for the plaintiff, and the charge to the
jury. The Appellate Court affirmed the judgment.
The defendant then appealed to the Supreme Court of
Illinois, which affirmed the judgment of the Appellate Court,
and in the opinion ified with its clerk held, that the charge of
the court to the jury was as full and favorable to the defendant as the law would warrant, inasmuch as it confined the
issue to the number of reels sold under the contract, and the
question of fact how many machines were sold by the defendant under the con'tract was conclusively settled by the findings
of the lower courts; and that in the admission of the testimony objected to by the defendant there was no error, certainly none that could affect the merits of the case under the
instructions given to the jury. 119 Illinois, 445.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

A writ of error was allowed by the acting Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court of Illinois, upon the petition of the defendant, representing that in said case in that court the
defendant set up and relied on the patent granted by the
United-States to M[ason on June 10, 1879, the validity of that
patent was assailed,, and the decision was against the rights
and privileges set up.by the defendant under it, and also that
in said proceedings he alleged that the jurisdiction to try the
quetions so involved was exclusively in the courts of the
United States, and the decision of the court was against him.
The plaintiff moved to dismiss the writ of error for want of
jurisdiction.
I& f enry -Deckerfor the motion.
_&rt.Preston . Cook and I&. Jokn A. Tameson opposing.
Mn. JusTion GnxA, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This record does not present any federal question. No such
question is stated in the pleadings, involved in the rulings at
the trial or in the final judgment, or mentioned in the opinion
of the Supreme. Court of Illinois.
The action was brought upon a contract in waiting between
the parties, being the joint owners of a patent for an improved
rope reel, by which it was agreed that the defendant should
have the exclusive control of the manufacture and sale of the
reel, paying to the plaintiff a certain royalty on each reel
.sold. This was not a case arising under the patent laws of
the United States, within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
federal courts; .Dae.Tile Wanufactu ing Co. v. Hyatt, ante,
46; and no suggestion that it was appears by the record to
have been made in either of the courts of the State.
The only exceptions taken by the defendant at the trial
were to the adtission of evidence offered by the plaintiff, and
to the instructions given by the court to the jury
But that evidence does not appear to have been admitted
for any other purpose than to- show that the reels made and

FELIX

.

SCHARNAVEBER.

Opmion of the Court.

sold by the defendant were substantially like those mentioned
in the agreement. sued on. At the time of its admission, no
letters patent were in the case. The question at issue was not
of priority of invention, or of the validity or construction of
an patent, but simply whether the reels made and sold by
the defendant were such as, or substantially like, those mentioned -n his contract with the plaintiff, and in the instructions to the jury the plaintiff's right of recovery was carefully
limited to such reels. The patent 1o -Mason was introduced
in evidence afterwards, and by the defendant himself, against
the plaintiff's objection; and no ruling upon the validity or
the construction of either patent, or upon the legal effect
of the evidence, was requested by the defendant, or made by
the court.
The petition, upon which the writ of error was allowed by
the acting Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Illinois, does
indeed represent that the patent to Mason was set up by the
defendant and its validity assailed, and that the defendant
also alleged that the jurisdiction to try the questions involved
was exclusively in the courts of the United States, and that
the decision of the State court was against him on both. these
points.
But in allowing a writ of error from this court to the
highest court of a, State. and m issuing a citation, the Chief
Justice of that court does but exercise an authority,vested by
Congress in him concurrently with each of the Justices of this
court. Rev. Stat. § 999; Gleason -i. Flortda, 9 Wall. -7-79;
.Rartemyer v. Iowa, 14 Wall. 26. When counsel applying
for the allowance of the writ'of error insist that a federal
question has been decided against the plaintiff in error, the
Chief Justice of the State court may feel bound to allow the
writ, for the purpose of submitting to the final determination
of this court whether such a question was necessarily involved
in the judgment sought to be reviewed. But his certificate
that such a question arose and was decided against the plaintiff in error cannot supply the want of all evidence to that
effect in the record. As has been more than once observed
by this court; "the office of the .certificate, as it respects the

OCTOBER TEnUf,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

federal question, is to make more certdin and specific what
is too general and indefinite m the record, but is incompetent
to originate the 'question'
Par2wVee v. -Lzwrence,11 Wall.
36, 39; Brnown. v. Atwe, 92 U. S. 327, 330. See, also, Adarm
County v. Burlidngton &~ fisouri Railroad, 112 -U. S. :193,
129.
Wt of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BANK OF REDMETION v'. BOSTON.

VIR

TO THE CIRoUIT COUT OF TEE DETD STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF biASSACHUSEITTS.
No. 1324. Argued February 74,1858. -Decided

March 9, 188.

The question of exemption from taxation of deposits in savings banks, as
affecting the rule for the state taxation of national bank shares, was
very deliberately considered by this court in Mercantile Bank v. New
York, 121 U. S. 138; and the conclusion reached in that case 'was
reaffirmed in Davenport Bank v. Davenport Board of Equaizat.ion, 123
U. S. 83; and it is impossible to distinguish this case from those cases.
The laws for the taxation of national banks in Massachusetts, Mass. Pub.
Stats. c. 13, §§ 8, 9, 10, do not deny to the banks as taxpayers the equal
protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States; and do not impose a disproportionate
and unequal tax upon them in violation of the provisions of the constitution of that Stale.
'It is the manifest intent of lev. Stat. § 5219, to permit the State in which
a national bank is located to tax all the shares in its capital stock without regard to ownership, subject only to the limitations prescribed in
that section; and in this case the law permits the taxation of the shares
in the bank of the plaintiff in error which are owned by other national

banks, on-the same footing with all other shares.

Tins was an action at law, in contract, to recover taxes
alleged to have been illegally assessed. Judgment for defendant. Pdaintiff sued out this suit of error. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
.A&. George S. Hale for plaintiff in error. 1r. WilZard
Brown and Ar. Charles ]r Well were with him on the brief.
.21r. G... Hoarand .Mr.A. T.Bailey for defendant m error.

