TOMPKINS v. FORT SMITH RAILWAY.

"109

Opinion of the Court.

TOMPKUMS v. LITTLE ROCK AND FORT SMITH
RAILWAY.
WILLIAMS v. LITTLE ROCK, MISSISSIPPI RIVER
AID TEXAS RAILWAY.
APPEALS FR03I THE CIR0UIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE rASTEI=

DISTICT OF A.RKA.NSAS.

l8os. 70, 71. Argued Jaiuary 17, 18,18S8.-Decded Marob 19,1888.

The statute of the State of Arkansas of July 21, 1808, to aid in the con.
struction of railroads, and the statute of that State of April 10, 1869,
to provide for payment of interest upon the bonds of the State issued in

aid of such construction, created no lien upon the property of a railroad
company for whose benefit such state bonds were issued, in favor of the
holder of the bonds, which, after a sale under foreclosure of a mortgage
upon the property remained a lien upon it in the bands of the purchaser
at the foreclosure sale.

IN EQuiTy.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

-Mr. Jo R. -DosPawsos and Ur. Joha XcClure for appellant. M31r. U. X. Rose and ilfr. Attorney General were wiith
them on the brief.

.A1'. C. W ..Hwuntinglon and ff1 JohFDiuon for appellees.
XR..CHiEF

JusTICE

WA=m delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases may properly be considered together. The
material facts are these:
The Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad Company was
incorporated by the State of Arkansas, January 22, 1855, to
build and operate a railroad in that State from Little Rock,
by the way of Van Buren, to Fort Smith. The Mississippi,
Ouachita and Red River Railroad Company was also incorporated by the State on the same day, to build and operate
a railroad from the Mississippi River near Gaines' Landing,

OCTOBER TERMif, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

through or near Camden, to some point on the :Red River, at
or near Fulton, and thence to the boundary line between
Arkansas and Texas. The Little Rock, Pine Bluff and 1New
Orleans Railroad Company was organized November 28, 1868,
under the general railroad law of Arkansas, passed July 23,
1868, to build and operate another railroad .from Little Rock,

through or near Pine Bluff and Monticello, to the state line,
with a branch from Pine Bluff to Eunice.
On the 21st of July, 1868, the General Assembly passed
" an act to aid in the construction of railroads." By this act
the State, "for the purpose of securing such lines of railroad
in this State as the interests of the people may from time to
time require," pledged itself "to issue to each railroad company or corporation, which shall become entitled thereto, the
bonds of this State, in the sum of one thousand dollars each,
payable in thirty years from the date thereof, with coupons
thereto attached, for the -payment of interest on the same in
the city of N-ew York, semi-annually, at the rate of seven per
cent per annum, in the sum of fifteen thousand dollars in
bonds for each mile of railroad which has not received a land
grant from -the United States, and ten thousand dollars in
bonds for each mile of railroad which has received a land
grant from the United States, on account of which such bonds
shall be due and issuable, as provided." To get the aid application was required to be made t6 the Board of Railroad
Commissioners for "the loan of state credit herein provided
for," and its approval by that board obtained.
The bonds, were to. be under the seal of the State, and
attested by the Secretary of State, and they, or the avails
thereof, were to be used "solely for the purpose of providing
for the ironing, equipping, building, and completing said road."
'They were to be issued only as each ten miles or more of the
road was prepared for the iron rails.
Sections -7 and 8, which are principally relied on as the
ground of recovery, are as follows:
"SEoc. It. Be it further enacted, That the Legislature shall
from time to time impose upon each railroad company, to
which bonds shall have been issued, a tax equal to the amount

TOMiPKMS v. FORT SMITH RAILWAY.
Opinon of the Court.
of the annual- interest upon such bonds then outstanding and
unpaid, which tax may be paid in money or in the past due
coupons of the State 6t par, and after the expiration of five
years from .the completion of said road the Legislature. shall
impose an additional special tax of two and one-half per cent
per annum upon the whole amount of state aid granted to
such company, payable in money or in the bonds and coupons
of the State at par; and, if in money, the same shall be
invested by the treasurer of the State in the bonds of the
State at their current market value. The taxation in this
section provided to continue until the amount of bonds issued
to such company, with the interest thereon, shall have been
paid by said company as herein specified, in which case the
said road shall be entitled to a discharge from all claims or
liens on the part of the State: .Proviled,That nothing herein
contained shall be so construed as to deprive any company,
securing the loan of the bonds of the State herein provided
for, from paying the whole amount due from such company
to the tate at any time in the bonds of the State loaned in
aid of railroads or the coupons thereon, or in money.
"Sso. 8.. Be it further enacted, That in the case said company shall fail to pay the taxes imposed by the preceding
section, at, the time the same become due and for sixty days
thereafter,- it shall be the duty of the treasurer of the State,
by writ of sequestration, to seize and take possession of the
income and revenues of said company until the amount of said
defaults shall be- fully paid up and satisfied, with costs of
sequestration, after which said treasurer shall release the
further revenues of said company to its proper officers."
In this statute the tax provided for in .7-was to be imposed
by the legislature from time to time, -but on the 10th of
April, 1869, another act was passed, "to provide for paying
the interest of the bonds to aid in the construction of railroads," by wtich it was enacted'that the interest on all bonds
issued under the act of .1868 should be made payable on the
first day of April and the first day of October in each year,
and it was made the duty of "the auditor of public accounts,
on or before the first day of Tune in each year," to "certify

OCTOBER TERM. 188-7.
Opinion of the Court.

to the treasurer the amount of bonds issued to each railroad
company, the amount of semi-annual interesf that will accrue
thereon - that is to say, the amount of interest the State will
have to pay on the first day of October of that year, on the
bonds issued to each of said railroad companies- and the
amount of tax required from each of. said railroad companies
to pay the same, which tax shall be deemed due and payable
on the thirtieth day of June of that yea . Similar provision
was also made for the interest falling due in April. Upon the
receipt of a certificate from the auditor, it was made the duty
,of the treasurer to "cause notice to be served upon each railroad company, on or before the twentieth day of June," or
the twentieth day of December, as the case might be, "in each
year, specifying the amount of tax to be paid, which amlount
shall be the interest on said bonds for the said period, and
demanding payment of the same into the treasury" at the
appointed time. If default occurred in the pa3nent of the
tax, and it continued for sixty days, it was made the duty of
the-treasurer, "through the attorney general, to inake and file
a petition, under the seal of the treasurer's office, in the
Pulaski Chancery Court, setting forth the amount due and
the fact of such default, praying the issue of the writ of
"sequestration contemplated in said act, and the appointment
of a receiver, to be named in said petition, to receive in his
behalf the revenue and income of said company, for the purpose specified in said act, -which writ shall issue upon the
-filing of the petition foe the same." Upon the issue of the
writ so ordered, the receiver therein named was required to
"take possession of all the income aad revenues of the"
defaulting company, with authority to demand and receive
all moneys coming to the same from the- operation of such
'road;" and it was further made "t h e duty of all officers of
said company to return all moneys to hun, for receiving
which he may require the submission of all necessary books,
papers, and accounts to him, and may examine any and all
persons under oath, and any person making false returns, or
failing to pay over moneys, shall be deemed guilty of a nusdemeanor,. and any person swearing falsely shall be- deca'ed
guilty of perjury." Section 5 of this act was as follox, s:

TOfPKIS v. FORT SM]ITH RAILWAY.
Opinfon of the Court.
"SFo. 5. That such receiver-shall give such bond as the
treasurer may require, shall be removable at tfie pleasure of
the treasurer, and a successor appointed, to be approved by
the chancellor. He shall, at the end of each month, make full
report and return to the treasurer of all moneys received by
him, with his estimate of the necessary cost of operating said
road, which, on the approval and order of said treasurer, shall
be paid out of the money so returned, the surplus or net proceeds to be applied in the discharge of the tax due and unpaid;
and shall so- continue until such amount in default shall be
paid, with the reasonable cost of sequestration, to be taxed
and certified by the chancellor, 'hen the treasurer shall
account with said -company and withdraw said receiver from
the management of its affairs."
The Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad Company received
a land grant from the United States, and on the 28th of April,
1869, its application to the State for "the benefits of" the act
of July 21, 1868, was granted as a "loan of state credit."
Afterwards, beginning April 2, 1870, state bonds to the
amount of one million dollars were issued to the company, as
its road was buil, in the following form:

CNo.

No.-

"$1000.
United States of America.
$1000.
"It is hereby certified that the State of Arkansas is indebted
unto the Little Rock and 'Fort Smith Railroad' Company, or
bearer, in the sum of one thousand'dolaias, lawful money of
the United States of America, redeemable at the city of New
York thirty -years from the date hereof, with interest at the
rate of seven per cent per annum, payable semiannually, in
the city of New York, on 'the first day of April and Octobr r
in each year, on the presentation of the proper coupons'hereto
annexed. The -faith and credit of the State are hereby
solemnly and irrevocably pledged for the payment of the
interest and redemption of the principal of this bond. Issued
in pursuance of an act of the General Assembly of the State
of Arkansas, approved July 21,. 1868, entitled In act' to aid
in the construction of railroads,' the said act having been sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

mitted to and duly ratified by the people of the State, at the
general election held November 3, 1868.
"In witness whereof, the governor of the State has signed
-this bond, the state treasurer has countersigned the same, and
the seal of the State has been affixed at the city of Little
Rock, Arkalsas, this first day of April, 1870.
[SEAL.]
"PowELL OLAYTo_, Governor.
11R. ff. T. WHITE, Secretary of State.
"HH.Fny PAGE, Treasurer.
"1J. R. BE.RrY, Auditor."
Each of said bonds at the time of their issue had ;ixty
interest coupons thereto attached, numbered from one to sixty
inclusive, and which, with the exception of the time of paymerit and number thereon, were as follows, to wit:
"$35.00.
$35.00.
"The treasurer of the State of Arkansas will pay to bearer
thirty-five dollars, in the city of New York, on the first day
of October, 1870, being semiannual interest due on bond
No.
"iL. R. & F. S. R. R.
T. R. Bmmy,Auditor."
On the 22d of December, 1869, the railroad company executed a mortgage on its railroad and the income thereof to
Henry-W. Paine and Samuel T. Dana, to secure a- proposed
issue of bonds to the .amount of $3,500,000, and on the 20th
of June, 1870, another mortgage to the same parties on its
laiid grant to secure another proposed Issue of $5,000,000.
Interest was paid on the state bonds up to and including
April 1, 1873. Default having been made in the payment of
interest upon the bonds issued under the railroad mortgage, a
suit was begun by the trustees, Mtay 12, 1874, for the foreclosure. To this suit the State was not a,party, but in the bill
the fact that state aid had been granted to the company was
set forth, and the prayer was for-a sale 'subject to the lien of
the State of Arkansas, if your honor shall fid and decree that
any lien existed in favor of said State prior to the lien-created

TOMPKINS v. FORT SMITH RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

by said deed of mortgage."

Upon this bill a decree was ren-

dered2p o confesso, directing a sale of the-mortgaged property,

but malng no decision and giving no directions as to the suggestion of a lien in favor of the State. Under this decree the
property. was bought by a committee of the bondholders for a
nominal sum, and they organized a new corporation under the
laws of Arkansas by the name of the Little fRock and Fort
Smith Railway, to take the .title,the original bondholders, or
such of them as elected to come in, being the stockholders.
Afterwards the property purchased was conveyed to the new
corporation.
On the 15th of March, 1869, state aid was awarded to the
Little fRock, Pine Bluff and New Orleans Railroad Company
under the act of July 21, 1868, to the amount of $1,200,000,
and on the 25th of June, 1870, to the Missis§ippi, Ouachita
and Red River Railroad Company to the amount of $600,000.
On the 20th of April, 1870, the r.ittle Rock, Fine Bluff and
New Orleans Company mortgaged its railroad and income to
Benjamin A. Farnham and David B. Sickels to secure an issue
of $1,200,000 of bonds, and .on the 3d of 'May, 1870, the
Mississippi, Ouachita and fRed River Railroad Company mortgaged its road and income to the same trustees to secure
another issue of bonds, amounting to $2,040,000. In October,
1873, these companies were consolidated into one corporation,
under the name of the Texas, Mississippi and Northwestern
Railroad Company Default having been made in. the payment of interest on these bonds, suits were begun by -the
trustees, March 15, 1875, ±o foreclose the mortgages under
which the two roads were sold by order of- the court, and
afterwards conveyances made to the Little -Rock'MississIppi
and Texas Railway. The proceedings in'these suits were substantially the same as in that against the Little Rock and Fort
Smith Railroad Company.
No interest was paid on the state bonds after April, 1873,
and at its May term, 1871, the Supreme Court of the State
decided that the bonds -were void, because issued in violation
of one of the provimns of the Constitution of the State.
.Akamsas v. It& Book, .'Z5i88ippi& Texa.9 RaiZway, 31

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Arkansas, 701. On the 29th of May, 1814, the legislature
repealed the act of April 10, 1869, being the act above mentioned, "to provide for paying the interest on bonds issued
to aid in the construction of railroads."
William HT. Tompkins is the owner of 2286 coupons cut
from the bonds of the State issued to the Little Rock and
Fort Smith Railroad Company which his mother bought in
open market in 1870, without notice, and which she gave to
him on his coming of age in 1875 or 1876, and be, on the 15th
of March, 1882, began the suit against the Little Rock and
Fort Smith Railway, in which he appears here as appellant,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Arkansas, "on behalf of himself and all holders
of bonds issued by the State" to the Little Rock and Fort
Smith Railroad Company, the object of which is to subject
the earnings of the railroad formerly owned by the Little
Rock and Fort Smith Railroad Company to the payment of
the interest due on the state aid bonds, and to require the new
or reorganized company to account for the earnings since the
road has been m its possession, and apply the amount due in
the same way.
William S. Williams is the owner of bonds issued to the
Little Rock, Pine Bluff and NTew Orleans Railroad Company
to the amount of $67,000, and of bonds issued to the Mississippi, Ouachita and Red River Railroad Company to the
amount of $24,000, on all of which coupons No. 6 and thereafter remain unpaid. These bonds, with the coupons attached,
he bought in open market at the current price, after the decision in -'rkansa v. The Little Rock,
i 'eispz River and
Texas Raihiay,above referred to, but without notice of any
want of power or defect in the issue of the bonds other than
is shown on their face. The suit in which lie is here as appellant was brough in. the same court, in the same way as.that
of Tompkins, on the 29th of January, 1883, against the Little
Rock, Mississippi and Texas Railway to obtain substantially
the same relief. Both bills were dismissed after hearing, and
"from.decrees to that effect these appeals were taken. Two
opinions were ffied in the court below, one by'the presiding.

TO3PXINS v. "FORT SMITH RlAIL-WAY.
Opinion of the Court.

Justice in favor of the decree, and reported in 18 Fed. Rep.
344, and the other by the District Judge against it, and
reported in 21 ]ed. Rep. 370.
The liability of the present companies, or the roads in their
hands, for the payment of the state bonds depends entirely
on the operation aDd effect of the acts of July 91, 1868, and
April 10, 1869, under which the bonds were issued, and they,
being in _w-'i matenig, are to be construed together. The
position-taken in argument, as stated in the- brief of counsel,
is, that the acceptance of the bonds by the several companies
created "an equitable or statutory lien or charge in favor of
the State, upon the income and revenue of thie roads, to the
extent necessary to meet the interest and principal upon the
bonds as they accrued and became due," and that "the bondholders can avail themselves of the lien." This lien on the
income and revenue, it is further claimed, is in law and in fact
a charge on the roads themselves, which attached as soon as
the awards of aid by the Board of Railroad Commissioners
were made .to the several original companies, and can be
enforced against subsequent mcumbrancers or purchasers until
the debt of the company to the State is paid in full.
It cannot be denied that the bonds were issued as "a loan
oT "state credit," and that the original companies were bound
to hold the State harmless from all liability on the amnounts
taken by them respectively. This might be done by paying
t6 the State at the times specified the taxes inposed under
the law, either in monody or in the bonds and coupons of the
State at par, or by paying -at any time the whole amount of
principal and accrued interest then unpaid, in money or in the
bonds of the State loaned in aid of railroads or the coupons
thereon. Such is the express provision of § I of the act of
1868. The bonds were bonds of the State, "pure and simple."
They carried on their face no express obligation of the railroad company to the holder. The proifiise made by the
company on the acceptance of the bonds was to pay the State.
not the bondholder. The failure of the company to meet bs
obligations to the State did not operate in any mna ncy -to
relieve the State from its liability on the bonds. The debt of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the state still remained and was the only debt the bonds
expressed on their face. The debt of the company was to
the State for the bond, not to the bondholder on the bond.
Payment to the State discharged the obligation of the company.
What we have thus far said relates to the bonds considered
as a valid and constitutional obligation of the State. If they
were invalid, and relief was sought on that account against
the company selling them, the liability would be, not on the
bonds, but for the moner bad and received on their sale.
That certainly would be the debt of the original company
alone, and in no way binding on a purchaser of its property.
In Rilroad Companses v. &lutte,108 U. S. 118, the object
was to enforce the statutory mortgage. the company actually
gave the State as security for the issue of the bonds, not to
recover the money received for them. There can be no
liability of the new companies in these cases, therefore, unless
the acceptance of the bonds by the old companies created the
lien w-hich is now contended for on the railroads or their
income. In the Schutfe case there was the lien, and it was
enforced. The question now is, whether a lien was created in
these cases which, under the rule m that case, will inure to the
benefit of the bondholders.
If we understand the argument for the appellants correctly,
it is, that because the requisition which is to be made on the
company to meet -the instalments of interest as they mature,
and to provide a fund to pay the principal when it falls due, is
called in the statute a tax, which may in case of default be
collected by a sequestration of the income and revenue of the
company,. it necessarily implies a lien on the property from
-whichthe income and revenue are to be derived, as security for
the payment of the debt; and that this view of the case is
strengthened by the further provision for "a discharge of all
clamin and liens on the road" when the payment is made,
which would be unnecessary if it was not mtenaled that a lien
on the road should be, and was m fact, created in favor of the
State.
It is true that the requisition provided for is called a tax in

TOMPKINS v. FORT SMITH RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

the statute, but that does not make it a tax in the ordinary
sense of that term. By statute in Arkansas, "all property,
whether real or personal," except such as shall be "expressly
exempted," is "subject to taxation," and must "be entered on
the list of taxable property for that purpose." Gantt's Dig.,
§ 5048. Each owner is required to list his own property,
(§5066,) and, when valued in the way provided by lai, the
county clerk is "to make out

.

.

a complete list or

schedule of the taxable property in his county, and the value
thereof," placing each separate lot or tract of real property
opposite the name of its owner. The aggregate value of the
personal property of each owner is also to be set oppopite his
name. § 5133. This being done, the clerk is to enter the
amount of taxes imposed upon each parcel of property, and
deliver the list to the proper officer for collection. § 5137,
5139. It is then provided by § 5153 that "the lien of the
State for the taxes levied for all purposes in each year shall
attach to all real and personal property on the first Friday
after the first M[onday in October in eaph year, and shall continue -until such taxes, with any penalty that may accrue
thereon, shall be paid.' Taxes upon personal property, if not
paid by the owner, may be collected by distraint. § 5173.
Taxes on land, not voluntarily paid, are to be. collected by-a
sale of the property. §§ 5185 to 5188.
Such taxes are undoubtedly liens on the property taxed, for
they are in express terms made charges thereon, and there is
something directly pointed out to which a lien may attach.
The lien is not on the property of the- owner generally, but
only- on that upon or against which the tax is charged. .Taxes
are also levied and collected in Arkansas for privileges, (§§
5050 to 5054,) but these are not liens on the property of him
to whom the privilege is granted, He may be prevented from
exercising the privilege until the tax is paid, but, the tax is'
certainly no lien on his property until a seizure has actbally
been made under some appropriate form of proceeding for its
collection, or something else done in thut behalf.
In the present case the tax provided for is not on the
property of the company, and it has-none of the qualities of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

a tax for reyenue. It is in reality nothing but a way of fixing
the amount due at a particular time from the company to the
State on account of the loan of credit under the statute, and
demanding its payment. The object is to collect a debt due,
not to require a contribution from the company for the public
necessities. The obligation to pay grows out of a private
contract between the State and the company, not out of. the
political relations between a sovereign and his people. The
rights of the respective parties depend on the terms of
the agreement they have entered into, not on the reciprocal
duties between a State m its public capacity and its citizens.
An exaction by the State under such circumstances and for
such purposes is not made a lien on the property of the person
who is to pay the money by simply calling it a tax. To create
a charge there must be something more than the mere giving
of a name to the reqmsition that is made. In short, the
statute wh'ich authorizes the requisition must in express terms
or by reasonable implication establish a lien. That has been
done in Arkansas so far as taxes for revenue are concerned.
The question to be determined is whether the same thing has
been done in respect to the liability of railroad companies to
the State under the statutes now in question.
Certainly no such lien has been created in express terms.
A provision for the " discharge frotn all claims or liens" does
not of itself establish a lien. If the lien does not exist without, such a provision will not create one. The provision may
be used in aid of construction if there is doubt, but not as an
affirmative grant of a positive right.
Is there anything, then, in the rest of the statute from
which the creation of- n lien may be reasonably implied?
Before the loan could be obtained it was necessary for the
company to make a statement to the Board of Railroad Commissioners, setang forth its charter and' organization, a map
of its line, and the progress made in construction, its financial
condition and resources, and for it to furnish such other information -as the case might require. The board was also to
inspect the road from time to time, and to indicate to the
governor how the aid was being used and applied. ,If

TOMPKNS v. FORT SMITH RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

improperly used, the governor was authorized to withhold all
or any part'of the bonds, and to take such other steps as
he might deem proper, to .the end that the bonds should not
be squandered. Any action of that kind on the part of the
governor was to be -reported to the General Assembly, which
was empowered to take such steps as might be necessary to
protect the interests of the. State. If the company faed
to complete its road within the time limited by the statute,
it was to forfeit its charter and franchises to the State.

In

all this we see no intention of establishing a lien on the road
as security for the loan which was actually made. A right to
forfeit a charter and its franchises for not completing that
which had been begun does notnecessarily imply a prohibition against a sale or incumbrauce of property, acquired before
a forfeiture was in fact enforced. The taking away of the
franchises may, under some circumstances, affect the value
of the property in the hands of a purchaser, but it cannot
ordinarily deprive him of his title. A forfeiture of.the charter
does not necessarily transfer the road built "under it to the
State, or give the State any rights therein.
The whole matter, therefore, depends, so far as the act of
188 is concerned, on the operation and effect of § 8, wich.
provides that if the company fails to pay "the taxes imposed"
by § 7, "it shall be the duty of the Treasurer of State, by writ
of sequestration, to seize and take possession of the income
and revenues of said company until the amount of 'said
defaults shall be fully paid up and satisfied, with costs of
sequestration, after which said treasurer shall release the
further revenues of said company to its officers." The act of
1869 provides the machinery for obtaining this writ of sequestration and carrying it into effect, through a receiver to be
appointed by the ?ulaskl Chancery Court. Tis receiver is
authorized to demand and receive all moneys coming to the
company -fromthe operation of the road. To accomplish this
it was made the duty of the officers of the company to return
a.l moneys to him, with power on his part to require the
submission to his inspection of books, papers, and accounts,
and to examine persons under oath. Operating expenses were

OCTOBER TERMN,

1887.

Opmion of the Court.

to be paid by the -receiver, on the approval of the Treasurer
of State, out of the moneys turned over to him, and only the
surplus or net proceeds applied in disclarge of the tax. When
the tax was satisfied the treasurer was required to "account
with said company, and withdraw said receiver frem the
management of its affaars."
*This,it is contended, "created and designated a fund from
which the bonds Nwere to be paid, and in case of default named
a person who should seize that fund and apply it to the payment of the interest and the principal of the bonds." Such
being the case, it is argued, on the supposed authority of
Xetokum v. St. Iouw, 101 U. S. 306, that the statute created
a lien on the entire income and revenue of the company for
the payment of the debt, and- as the company relied exclusively on its road for its income and revenue, this lien extended
to the road itself as the thing out of which the earnings must
necessarily come, and that, too, notwithstanding the road has
passed into other hands.
We do not understand that the case relied on warrants any
such conclusion. Its facts were peculiar. The Pacific Railroad was mortgaged to the State of XMissouri to secure a loan
of state aid bonds amounting to $7,000,000. It was unfinished
and more money was needed for its completion. Authority
was then given the company by the State to issue more bonds
for that purpose, to be secured by a first mortgage on a part
of the line, which should be superior in lien'to that already
existing in favor of the State as security for the original loan.
Under this legislation a fund commissioner was appointed,
who had acquired, by authority of the statute, for !he security
of the State, "complete control of the earnings and income
arising from the property" In this condition of affairs the
State was invaded by armed forces during the late civil war,
and while the invasion continued much of the property belonging to the com'pany, including bridges, depots, machine
shops and track, was destroyed. To raise the money to repair
these damages :id put the road again in a condition for use,
the company applied to the county of St. .ouis for a loan of
$700,000 of county bonds. In aid of this application the

TOBPKINS v.. FORT SMITH RAILTAY.
Opinion of the Court.

legislature of M:issouri passed a statute authorizing the county
to issue the -bonds, "under such conditions as may be agreed
upon between the said County Court and the Board of Directors of the Pacific fRailroad Company," and directing that
"the fund commissioner of the Pacific Railroad, or such person as may at any time hereafter have the custody of the funds,
of the said railroad company, shall, every month after -said
bonds are issued, pay into the county treasury of St. Louis
County, out of the earnings of said Pacific Railroad, $000,
and $1000 additional m each month of December, to meet the
interest on the said seven hundred bonds, said payments to
continue until said bonds are paid off by said Pacific Railroad." This act was accepted by the railroad company, and
the bonds were loaned by the county to the company, under a
special arrangement in accordance with its provisions. The
fund commissioner had at the time fall control of the earnings
and income under the provisions of the previous statute.
What was done under these circumstances was held to be
"not a simple, naked covenant to pay out of a particular fund;
but the act, being accepted by the parties interested, operated
as an equitable assignment of a fixed portion of the fundan assignment which became effectual without any further intervention upon the part of the debtor, and which the party
holding the funds of the company, whether the :fund commisstoner, or some other person, could respect without liability to
the debtor for so doing. It was an arrangement based on a
valuable consideration, -which neither the State nor the company, nor both, nor parties claiming under either, with notice,
could disregard without the assent of the county, expressed
by those who had authority to bind it. It was an engagement
to pay out of a specially designated fund, accompanied by express authority to its custodian to apply a specific part thereof
to a definite object, in the accomplishment of which all the
parties to the arrangement were directly interested." In other
words, it was a specific appropriation by statute of a fixed and
definite portion of the future earnings of the railroad to a particular purpose, with an express statutory provision for a custodian of the earnmng as they accrued, whose duty it should

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

be to apply this specified portion in this specified way. No
further action of. the compgny was required. The law made
it the duty of the custodian of the earnings of the road, whoever he might be, to use this definite amount thereof in this
definite way and in no other way whatever, so long as the
debt remained. The effect of this was to charge the road as a
road, into whosesoever hands it might come, with the payment
of this amount of money each month out of its current earnings. IC the earmugs came into the hands of the person or
corporation owning the road for the time being, and the payments were not made as the law required, then some other
custodian of the earnings-some other trustee-could be
appainted by the proper judicial tribunal, who would obey the
law in that behalf.
In the present case, however, there is no specific appropriation of the earnings of the road. The company is required to
pay what is called the tax to enable the State to meet the
semiannual instalments of interest on the state bonds and
provide a fund for the redemption of the principal whenever
it falls due. No specific amount of the earnings of the road is
specially set apart by law for that purpose. There is no provision for a custodian of the earnings, whose duty it shall be
to pay to the State ozt of the eammg8 as they accrue any definite amount on the days named. The taxis to be paid by the
company on certain specified days, but there is no statutory appropriation of earnings for that purpose. If the company
fails to meet the tax as it falls due, "the income and revenues
of the sai'wmyany"l may be sequestered. Under the operation of tllis sequestration the receiver to be appointed may
"take possession of all the income and revenue of said defaultmg company, with authority to demand and receive all moneys coming to the same from the operation of such road;"
but this falls very far short of a specific appropriation of the
earnings of the road as they accrue, so that they can be demanded under the statute as earnings of the road without sequestration. Under the law which was the subject of consideration in _etuw's case, there was no need of sequestration,
because the part of the earnings of the road to be reached was.

TO]3PKNS v. FORT SMITH RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

always in equity the property of the county, and the remedy
applied was only such as was necessary to enable the county
to reduce its own property to its own possession. Here, however, the writ of sequestration is given as a means of enabling
the State to collect a debt, not to recover possession of its property. True, in the process of sequestration the State is authorized, through its receiver, to demand and receive the moneys
coming to the company from the operation of the road, but
this is for the purpose of enabling the State to subject that
particular kind of property, belonging to the company to the
payment of its debt, not to get possession of anything which
actually belonged to the State irrespective of its rights under
the sequestration proceedings. It is true, also, that in executing its writ of sequestraton, the State could, through its receiver, direct the officers of the company as to the disposition
of the current earnings of the road, and thus to a certain extent assume the management of the company's affairs. This
was not, however, for the purpose of enabling the State t.o get
possession of its own property, but of compelling the company
to apply its property to the payment of its debts. Certainly,
if A owes B a debt, and agrees that if the debt is not paid
at maturity B may apply to a proper judicial tribunal for a receiver to collect the rents of a certain building wkich he then
owned, and apply them on the debt until it is discharged in
full, it would not be claimed that B had acquired a lien on the
building, or even on the rents, until he had at least commenced
proceedings to subject the rents under the agreement. The
agreement alone did not make the rents the property of B, or
charge the building assecurity for their payment to him. The
rents belonged to A until default in the payment of the debt,
and uutil B took steps to reduce them to possession. If in the
meantime the building should be sold by A there would be no
rents which B could subject under his agreement, because it
was only rents due to A himself that he could give B the right
to collect. In .Yetohum's case.the earnings of the road to the
extent that they had been specifically appropriated to the county of St. Louis never did belong to the company after the bonds
were accepted, and the grant of the earning. was in equity a

OCTOBER. TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

grant of such an interest m the road as was necessary to produce the earnings. Hence, a conveyance of the road afterwards to one with notice was necessarily subject to the prior
equitable charge on the road which had been created in favor
of the county. Bat here there was never any grant of earnings, and consequently there was never any grant of an equity
in the road. The case stands precisely as it would if, instead
of a.writ of sequestration, it had been agreed that the Pulaski
Chancery Court might,.on application of the Treasurer of State,
issue an ordinary writ of jArzifacz" to subject the property
of the company to the payment of the amount which was then
due. Nqo one could properly claim that in such a case any lien in
favor of the State existed which would prevent an alienation
of its property by the company before steps were taken to get
the execution. The writ of sequestration actually provided for
was to issue as an appropriate form of execution to subject any
"Income and revenue" Which the company then had to the
payment of its debt then due, and in the income and revenue
of the company that might be thus subjected was included
"all moneys coming to the same from the operation of such
road," that is to say, the road in aid of the construction of
which the loan of credit was made. But if there were then
no moneys coming, or which could be rightfully made to come,
to the company from the operation of the road, then there was
nothing df that kind of property which could be subjected to
the writ. And they neither could come, nor be made to come,
to the company unless the original company to which 'the loan
was made and by which the obligatibn was incurred either
owned the road itself or had passed it to another, coupled with
a condition that its earnings should be subject to the writ, or
something equivalent.
We agree with counsel for the appellants, that if, on an
examination of the statutes, read in the light of the circumstances which surrounded the legislature at the time of their
enactment, it appeared to have been the intention to charge
the road of the company as a road with a liability for the
repayment of the loan to be mode, it would be the duty of a
court of equity to do everything m its power which was neces-

TOMPKINS v. FORT SIITH RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

sary to enforce that charge. And it may also be true that
the courts ought to construe the statutes liberally with a view
to the establishment of such a charge as against the company
itself or those claiming under it, because, if the charge was
actually created by the statutes, those dealing with the company were bound to take notice of it. But after a careful
consideration of the statutes, and construing them liberally in
favor of the State, we have been unable to find that any such
intention did in fact exist. There was a plain and simple way
in which such a lien could be created, and that was by providing in express terms for it. That way had been adopted
by the State in a statute passed Mffarch 18, 1867, and it was
the way usually adopted by other States when granting similar
aid to their own companies. The wide departure whibh Arkansas made in this statute from the accustomedform of proceeding,
both at home and elsewhere, is strongly indicative of an intention to waive security any furtfier than it was embraced in
the reserved power of sequestration. The constitution of the
State gave authority to issue bonds in aid of such works of internal improvement if assented to by the people. If the
people gave their consent, then the bonds when issued became
a debt of the State, and there was power in the General Assembly, under the constitution of 1868, to levy taxes for their
payment, if necessary.
This disposes of the cases and renders it unnecessary to consider any of the other questions discussed at the bar or in the
briefs. In our opinion the new companies took the roads free
of incumbrance in favor of the State, and neither the State nor
its bondholders are entitled to a sequestration of the income
and revenue arising therefrom in their bands. The decree of
the Circuit Court in each of these cases is consequently

A4ffin ed.
Mt. JUSTEC BLATCHFORD did not sit in these cases or take
any part in their decision.

