CISSEL v. DUTCH.
Opinion of the Court.

CISSEL v. DUTCH.
APPFEA.

FROM THE SUP E E COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUAhIA.

Io.153. Argued January 1, :Februnry 1

88. -DecIded

Mxarcb 19, 1883.

In this case this court reversed the decree of the general term of the
Supreme Court-of the District of Columbia, on a question of fact as to
whether a deed of trust and a, promissory note secured thereby were forgenes.

BIL.L

u-T EQuizr.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.
.X[ . T A.

rbert and J.

Eock Totten for appellant.

M1r. S. S. Henkle for appellees.
brief for same.

Mr. _FZrians .Millerfiled a

iti. JUSTICE BLLToxon delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought to the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia., by persons claiming to own a lot of
land in the city of Washington, as tho heirs at law of one
Jenifer, and as devisees under his last will and testament.
The bill alleges that a deed of trust, purporting to have been
executed on the 8th of July, 1875, by Jenifer, to R. P. Dodge
and P. A. Darneille, conveying the land to them as security
for the payment of a promissory note dated that day, purporting to have been made by Jenifer, payable two years after date,
for $1000, with 10 ler cent interest until paid, payable semiannually, to John T. Hail, or order, was a forgery, and that
the note was also a forgery The deed of trust bears the
notarial certificate, dated July 8, 1875, with the notarial sea],
of James lNicholas Callan, a notary public, certifying that
Jenifer, the party'to the deed, personally appeared before
him,. in the county of Washington, being personally well
known to hin to be the person who executed the deed, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

acknowledged it to be his act and deed. The deed was recorded, on the 10th of Tuly, 1815, in a book of the land
records for Washington County. The note and the deed of
trust were each of them signed by Jenifer by making his
mark, and each of them bears the signature of Callan as a
'witness.
The bill alleges that Jenifer was never indebted to Hal in
any sum, and never received any money from Hall, that
Jenifer never signed or made his mark to the note or deed
of trust, or authorized any one to do so, and never acknowledged the deed to Callan; and that on the 29th of May, 1882,
the two trustees, having advertised the premises for sale, sold
them at public sale to one Cissel, and executed to him a deed
of the premises, which has been recorded in the land records
of the district. In an amendment to the bill it is alleged that
the note and the deed of trust came into the possession of one
Brittania W. Kennon, who held them on the day of the sale,
and ordered the sale. The two trustees, and Hall, Cissel, and
Xennon are made parties to the bill. The prayer of the bill.
is, that the deed of trust and the note, and the deed to
Cissel, be declared- null and void, and be cancelled, and that
Cissel reconvey the premises to the plaintiffs. Dodge, 2Darneille, and Cissel each answered'the bill by a separate answer,
denying its allegations as to the alleged forgeries, and averring that the note and the deed of trust were genuine and
valid instruments. The plaintiffs joined issue, by replication,
with the defendants Dodge, Darneille, and Cissel. Proofs
were taken on both sides, and the case was heard before the
court in special term, which dismissed the bill. On an appeal
by the plaintiffs to the court in general term, it reversed the
decree of the special term, and adjudged the note, and the
deed of trust, and the deed to Cissel to be void, and directed
an account, in favor of the plaintiffs, of the mesne profits received by Cissel. From the decree of the general term Cissel
has appealed to this court.
The issue is one entirely of fact, in which the burden of
proof is upon the plaintiffs. Callanu, the notary public, testifies with particularity to'the circumstances attending the exe-

POTTS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cution of the note and of the deed of trust in ns presence, and
to the acknowledgment of the latter before hun, and to Ins
signing his name as a witness to the execution of each. It is
also satisfactorily shown that the $1000 secured by the notpassed from the lender to the agent of the borrower. It
would serve no good purpose to discuss the evidence at length.
The integrity'of the transaction is not satisfactorily impeached.
The dearee of the court below, in gene'a2 term, is reversed,
directio, to
and the cave is 'ermnded to it, with
aflm, with, costs the decaree of the court in specsa t&w'.

POTTS v. UNITED STATES.
APPF.L iROM THE COURT OF OLAfl.1.
X6o. 698. .&rgued February2,:SS8.-Declded-rchllSSS.

A naval officer being retired on furlough pay, under Rev. Stat. ยง 1454, for
Incapacity not the result of any incident of the service, and beiug subsequently transferred by the President, by and with the consent of the
Senate, fromthe furloughto the retired pay list under Rev. Stat. ยง 1594,
is entitled thereafter, under the second clause of Rev. Stat. ยง 1588, when
not on active duty, to one-balf the sea pay provided for the grade orrank
retirement.
held by hun at the time of his

TuE case is stated m the opinion of the court.
t2A.John- PaulJones and 2fr. Robert B. Lines for appellant.
tay for appellee.
Mr. Heber.
with him on the brief.

-Mr.Attorney General was

MR. CHIE F JUsTioE W.A=r delivered the opinion of the court.
Howard D. Potts, an assistant engineer of the navy, being
physically disabled, was examined by a naval retiring board
who reported that he was incapacitated from active service,
and that in their judgment the incapacity did not originate in

