TlARTRANFT v. SHEPPARD.
Opmlon of the Court.

HARTRA-NFT v. SHEPPARD.
ERROR To THB oIROUIT COUT OF THE UNITED STATS FOR
BASTERN DISTRIOT OF P MNSYL ANIA.
No.19L Argued and submitted February 17, 1888.-De lded April 2 888.

Quilts composed of cotton and eider-down, or silk and eider-down, eiderdown being in each case the component material of chief value, are subject to a duty, on importation into the United States, df twenty per cent

ad valorem as manufactured articles not enumerated.

TaE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
M. SoMiir Generalfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. F-.D. Prtard,
the printed record.

for defendants in error, submitted on

The following opinion, prepared by M3 CmeF "JusTIcE
WArrE, was delivered by the court as its opinion.

The single question in this case is, whether quilts composed
of cotton and eider-down, or silk and eider-dowii, the eiderdown in each case being the component material of chief
value, are dutiable, on importation into the United States, as
manufactures of-cotton or of silk, not enumerated, at thirtyfive per centum ad valorem if of cotton, and at ffty-per centurn ad valorem if of silk, or at twenty per centum ad valorem
as manufactured articles not enumerated, the latter being the
amount admitted to be due by the importer in his protest.
The collector demanded the highest rates, which were paid,
and this suit was brought to recover back the differencQ between these amounts and a duty of twenty per cent.
The case depends upon the effect to be given the following
provisions of the act of :March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488
[amending the Revised Statutes]: "Cotton cords, braids,
gimps, galloons, webbing, goring, suspenders, braces, and allmanufactures of cotton, not specially enumerated or provided
voL. CXXV-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinon of the Court.

for in this act, and corsets, of whatever material composed,
thirty-five per centum. ad valorem." lb. § 2502, Schedule I,
p. 506. The quilts made of cotton and eider-down were assessed
under that provision.
"All
4
goods, wares, and merchandise, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, made of silk, or of which silk
is the component material of chief value, fifty per centum ad
valorem."

Schedule L, Tb. 510.

Those of silk and eider-

down Were assessed under that provision.
"There shall be levied, collected, and paid, on the importation of all raw or unmanufactured articles, not herein enumerated or provided for, a duty of ten per centum ad valorem;
and all articles manufactured, in whole or in part, not herein
enumerated or provided -for, a duty of' twenty per centum a4
valor~m." lb. § 2513, p. 523. The claim of the importer was
that the articles should be assessed at twenty per centum
under that section.
By § 2499, Ib. 491, it was provided as follows: "And on all
articles manufactured from two or more materials the duty
shall be assessed at the ]ughest rates at which the component
material of chief value may be chargeable. If two or more
rates of duty should be applicable to any imported article, it
shall be .classified for duty under the highest of such rates:
Provided, That moo-enumerated articles similar in material
and quality and texture, and the use to which they may be
applied,-to articles on the free list, and iA the manufacture of
which no dutiable materials are used, shall be free."
Quilts are non-enumerated manufactured articles, composed
of two or more materials. .Eider-down is on the free list.
lb. § 2503, p. 518. As eider-down is the component material
of chief value in the quilts involved in this suit, and that is free,
it follows that they are manufactured.articles mot provided
for, and therefore chargeable with the duty of twenty per
centum ad valorem under § 2513, rather than thirty-five per
eentum as a manufacture of cotton, or fifty per centum as a
iranufacture of which silk is the component material of chief
value.
As such was the opinion of the court below, its judgment tb
that effect is
fflmed,

