HARTRA1XFT v. OLIVER.

Statement of the Case.

IA RTRA-FT v. OLIVER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENN8SYLVANIA.
INo. 190. Argued March 22, 188.-Declded April 9, 18S8.

A vessel arrived at a port of the United States from a foreign port on the
30th of June, 1883, and was entered at the custom-house on that day. A
custom-house inspector took charge of it, and the vessel remained with
unbroken hatches until after the following 1st of July. Held, -that the
goods on board, being in the custody and under the control of officers
of the customs, were in " a public store," or "bonded warehouse," within
the meaning of those terms as used in § 10 of the act of March 3, 1883,
22 Stat. 488, 525, and were sub3ect to the duty Imposed by the provisions
of that act.

THE court stated the case as follows:
In 1883 the plaintiffs were merchants in the city of Philadelphia, and during that year they nported from Leghorn,
Italy, by the bark. Pellegra Madre, 155 cases of salad olive oil,
and ten cases of lamp oliye oil. The bark arrived at the Tort
of Philadelphia on Saturday, the 30th of June, 1883, and was
entered at the custom-house of that port between the hours of
one and two in the afternoon. 'It was not practicable on that
day after that time to remove the cases from the vessel into
any public store or bonded warehouse; and the next day, July
1st, 1883, was Sunday. On the'Tth of July the cases -ere
entered in bond at the custom-house, and on the same day the
plaintiffs made a withdrawal entry for the goods, and offered

to pay the defendant, -who was at the timq collector of the
port, duty thereon at the rate of 25 per cent aZ valorem, as
provided by § 6 of the act of Congress of M,arch 3d, 1883, 22
Stat. 491, c. 121; but the de~endaut refused to permit the withdrawal entry, or to accept the duty at that rate, and exacted
duty on the 155 cases of salad olive oil, gauging 645W- gallons, atthe rate of one dollar per gallon, and on the ten cases
of lamp olive oil, gauging one hundred gallons, at the rate of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

25 cents per gallon, the whole making the sum of $670.63,
which was paid by the plaintiffs within ten days after liquidation of the entry, under protest, they dlaiming that the oil
was only subject to duty at the Tate of 25 per cent ad'vaorem.
The difference between the amount of duties exacted and paid,
and the amount which the plaintiffs dlaimed were leviable
upon the goods was four hundred and thirty-five dollars and
six y-two cents ($435.62). From the decision of the collector
the plaintiffs appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
approved the decision; and thereupon they brought tis action
in the Court of Common Pleas for the County of Philadelphia
in Pennsylvama to recover the allegdd excess of duties exacted.
On petition of the collector the action was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, where issue was joined, and
the action tried, resulting in a special verdict, finding the several facts stated above; and also that from the time of the
arrival and entry of the bark in the port of Philadelphia,
June 30, 1883, until after payment of the duty exacted, July
Ith, the "vessel remained with unbroken hatches, and with a
custom-house inspector in charge of the same."
Upon the special verdict the court -endered judgment for
the plaintiffs for the amount claimed, with interest; and to
review this judgment the case is brought here on writ of error.
In his general circular to collectors of customs of May 19th,
1888, the Secretary of the Treasury, in giving construction to
§ 10 of the act of March 3d, 1883, said, "that all goods imported before said act takes effect, and which are entered in
bond on or before that date, and for which permits to land,
designating the warehouse, have been issued, and which have
not theii. been delivered on payment of duties, are to be
regarded as subject to duty under said act. This rule will
prevail, whether the goods are actually within the walls df a
bonded warehouse on that day, or on the dock, or on shipboard
in port, or undergoing transportation in bond, either after- appraisal or under the immediate transportation act."

.X.. Solicitor Genera, for plaintiff in error.
XP.

EdiaordL. Perk-i

for defendant in error.

TARTRANFT v. OLIVER.

"527

Opinion of the Court.

Mu. JusnTEI FIm,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

Tlie duties exacted by the collector, and paid by the importers, who were plaintiffs below, were imposed by a clause
in § 2501, Title 33 of the Revised Statutes 2d ed. p.
478. A s the vessel, in. wluch they were. brought, arrived at
the port of Philadelphia, and.was entered at the custom-house
on the 30th of June, 1883, they would be deemed imported on
that day, so as to be subject to the duties thus prescribed,
were it not for.provisions in the act of March 3, 1883, and the
custody taken of the vessel and goods by an officer of the
custom-house on. the day of its arrival -in port, and kcept by
111m until after the.fint of July following. That act declared

that on and after the first day of July, 1883,-certain designated sections should be a substitute for Title 33 of the Revised
Statutes. 22 Stat. 489, c. 121. OQie of these sections provides that the duties on all preparations known as "expressed
oils,"-not specifically enmierated or provided for in the act,
shall be 25 per cent ad valorem. Olive oils,'both-salad and
lamp, are expressed oils within the meaning of this section,
and are not specifically enumerated or provided for elsewhere.
m the act. Section 10 of the act declares, "that all imported
goods, wares, and merchandise, which may be in.the public
stores or bonded warehouses on the day and year when this
act shall go into effect, except as otherwise provided in this
act, shall be subjected to no other duty upon the entry
thereof for consumption than if the same were imported
respectively after that day; and all goods, wares, and merchandise remaining in bonded warehouses on the diay and year
this act shall take effect, and upon which the dutie4 shall have
been paid, shall be entitled to a refund of the difference,
between the amount of duties paid and the amount of duties
said goods, wares, and merchandise would be subject to if thQ
samr were imported respectively after that date." 22 Stat.
525, c. 121..
The plain meaning of -this section is, that, though goods are
imported before the act takes effect, yet if they ar kept until

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

after that period in a public store or bonded warehouse, that
is, in the custody and under the control of officers of the
customs, they shall be subjected only to -the duties thereafter
leviable when they are entered for consumption. If previously to such entry duties have been paid on goods imported
before the act took effect, which are afterwards kept in a
public store or bonded warehouse, that is, in the custody and
coftrol of officers of the government, the importer is entitled
to, & refund of the difference between the amount paid and the
amount which would be leviable if they were imported after
the act took effect. In other words, goods impbrted before
the act took effect, if kept in the custody and control of the
government, are to be charged with duties according to the
law in force when they are entered for consumption; that is,
when passed over to the control of the"importer 6r owner.
The place in which the goods are thus kept is not the essential
fact, but the custody of the government, and the consequent
exclusion of control over them by the owner, which calls for
the suspension of previous duties. There is manifest justice in
the rule that goods thus withheld 'from the control of the
owner or importer shall be subject only to such duties as are
leviable by the law when he is at liberty to take possession
of them. Ordinarily, goods in the custody and control of
officers of -the customs are placed in a public store or bonded
warehouse, and thus the designation of the goods as thus placed
is, in the legislation of Congress, in effect a designation, and
no more, of their being in such custody But goods on board
of a ship, in charge of a custom-house officer, preliminary to
their removal to a public store or a bonded warehouse, and
during the time necessary for that purpose, are in like custody,
and so are, within the spirit and intent of the law, subject only
to such duties as are leviable when the goods are freed, from
such custody So far as the government is concerned, they
are in the same position as if technically in a public store or
bonded warehouse. When in either of those places, they cannot be removed Without a permit from the collector. When
on shipboard, in charge of a custom-house inspector, they are
in the same condition, and cannot be removed without a like

TARTRANFT v. OLIVER.
Ophiion of*.the Court.

permit. By statute collect6rs.are'required to put one oiniore
inspectors on board of every vessel immediately on her coning
within a, collection district, and no merehandise can be un
loaded or removed from the vessel -without ,permit in writing
from the collector. Rev. Stat. % 2875, 2876.
The act of Congress of March 28, 1854, which isnow, embraced in § 2971 of the Revised Statutes, in providing for
the deposit of goods in public stores and bonded warehouses,
declares that "any goods remaining in public store or bonded
warehouse beyond three years shall be regarded as abandoned
to the government"; and in the construction of this clause
the Treasury Department has decided that the period limited
for their remaining in a public store or a bonded warehouse
includes the time on shipboard, after.the arrival of the ship in
port. Treasury Regulations of.1857, article 438.
We are, therefore, of o.pimon that, within the spirit and
intent of the 10th section of the act of March 3, 1883, the
goods were not chargeablb witli duties; whilst on -board the
bark, in custody of an officer of the customs, at any. greater
rate than they would have been chargeable if in custody of
such officer in a public store or bonded warehouse 'of the government; and that therefore duties were only Ieviable o.n the
goods by the act which went into effect on the first of July,
1883. 'The intent of the legislature is to be followed, even if
not strictly within the letter of the statute. It fbllows that
the construction placed upon the section by the Secretgry of
the Treasury in his circular of May 19, 1883, to collectors of
customs, is correct, so far as it recognizes as subject to duties
under it goods imported before the act took effect, whether
"actually within ther walls of a bonded warehouse on that
day, or on the dock, or on shipboard an port, or undergoing
transportation in bond, either after appraisal or under the
immediate transportation act";'but is incorrect so far as it
limits the application of the rule to goods, imported before
the act took effect, 11which are entered in bond on or before
that date, and for which permits to land, designating the -warehouse, have been issued, and which have not then been delivered on payment of duties2 If goods thus imported can be
VOL. CxxV-34:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

brought within the provisions of the 10th section in anry case,
when not aktualy in a public store or bonded warehouse, they
should be deemed within those provsions when, by reason of
the custody of officers of the customs, it ir impracticable to
remove them from the vessel, whether they are at the time
entered in bond or not.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH (QOM-PANY v. THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF MASSAOHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM~ TEE CIROIT COURT OF TIM UITEfD STATES FOR
TEE DISTRICT OF

1A.SAOCHUSE=S.

No. 1325. Argued February 15, 188.-Declded Muarch 19, 1883.
The privilege conferred upon telegraph companies by Rev. Stat. § 5268
carries with it no exemption from the ordinary burdens of taxation in a
State within -whichthey may own or operate lines of telegraph.
The laws of Massachusetts impose a tax upon the Western Union Telegraph
Company on account of the property owned aud used by it within that
State, the-value of which Is to be ascertained by comparing the length of
its lines in that State with the length of its entire lines; and such a tax
is essentially an excise tax, and is not forbidden by the fact of the acceptance on the part of the company of the rights conferred on telegraph
-companies by Rev. Stat. § 6263, nor by the commerce clause of the Constitution.
The.principles established by the statutes of Massachusetts for regulating
the taxation of corporations doing business within its limits, whether
domestic or foreign, do not appear to be unfair or unjust.
A state statute which authorizes an injunction to be issued to restrain a
corporation organized under the laws of another State, whose taxes are
In arrear, from prosecuting its business within the State until the taxes
are paid, Is void so far as It assLmes to confer power upon a court to so
restrain a telegraph company which has accepted the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 5263 from operating its lines over military and' post roads 6f the
United States.

Th ErQurr.
The bill was filed by the Attorney General of
the COmimonwealth of Massachusetts, at the relation of the

