834

SUPREkM

COURT.

Harris v. Hardeman et aL

and to order and direct the appellees to iepay to the appellant
the sum of $441.02, with the State interes thereon, of eight per
cent. from the time it was received by theii solicitor from the
marshal.

BENJAMIN D. HARRIS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM HARDEMAN, HENRY R. W. HILL, -COTESWORTH P. SMITH, AND HENRY

A. MooRE.
A statute of Mississippi directs that where the defendant cannot be found, a writ of
capias ad respondendum shall be served, by leaving a copy thereof with the wife of
the defendant, or some free white person above the ng3 of sixteen years, then and
there being one of the family of the defendant, and found at his usual place of
abode, or leaving a copy thereof at some public place, at the dwelling-house or
other known place of residence of such defendant, he being from home, and no
snch.free white person being found there willing to receive the same.
The Circuit Court of the United States adopted a rule that the capias should be
served personally; or, if the defendant be not found, by leaving a copy thereof at his
or her residene, or usual place of abode, at least twenty days before the return day
thereof.
The marshal made the following return to a writ of capias: "Executed on the defendant Hardeman, by leaving -a true copy at his resideice."
This service was neither in conformity with the statute nor the rule.
Therefore, when the court gave judgment, by default against Hardeman, and an exeli~tlon was issued, upon which a forthcoming bond was given, and another execution issued, and at a subsequent day the court quashed the proceedings, an4 set
aside the judgment by default, this order was correct.
When the judgment by default was given, the court was not in a condition to exercise jurisdiction over the defendant, becausenthere was no regular service of process,
actual or constructive.
The cases upon this point, examined.
Moreover, when the proceedings were quashed, they were still in Jfer, and not termi.nated; and any irregularity could be corrected, on mot-on.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of en-or, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Aelson for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Freemanfor the defendant.
Mr. Nelson contended that the judgmen; of the court below
was erroneous, and referred to the following authorities.
To show that the bond was regularly taken under the lississippi statute. Hutch. Code, 910, Art. 6, see. 2; Howard &
flutch. 653, see. 78.
The ground of the motion made by the defendants in error,
in the court below, was, that th" originaljudgment was void for

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

335

Harris v. Hardeman et al.

want of notice; and that being void, the process issued upon it
and the bond taken under that process, were nullities.
It may be true that the return of the service of notice was
insufficient. Smith v. Cohen, 3 Howard, (Miss.) 35; Tomlinson
v. Hpyt, 1 Smedes & Marsh. 515; Eskridge v. Jones, Id. 595.
But that was matter to be consideied and passed upon by the
court rendering the judgment. Fatheree v. Long, 5 Howard,
(Miss.) 661; Smith v. Bradley, 6 Smedes & Marsh. 492.
Besides, the defendants were estopped, by the execution of
the bond, from denying the validity of the judgment and the
execution. Bank U. S. v. Patton, 6 Howdrd, (Miss.) 200; Miller
v. Patten, 3 Smedes & Marsh. 463; Keringham v. ScanIand,
6 Howard, (Miss.) 540; Field v. Morse, 1 Smedes & Marsh. .347;
Conn v. Pender, 2 Smedes & Marsh. 386; Pender v. Felton, 2
Id. 535; Clowe v. Tharpe, 3 Id. 64; MeCoul v. Elldt, 8 Id. 505.
The bond -as regularly forfeited. Barker v. The Planters
Bank, 5 Howard, (Miss.) 566; Puckett v. Graves, 6 Smedes &
Marsh. 384; Talbert v. M61ton, 9 Id. 9; Dowd v. Hunt, 10 Id. 414.
And the forfeiture of the bond extinguished the original judgment. Davis v. Dixon, 1 Howard, (Miss.) 64; Weathersby v.
Proby, Id. 98; Witherspoon v. Spring, 3 Id. 60; Binny v. Stanton, 2 Smedes & Marsh. 457.
Moreover, the return was in conformity -with the rule of
court.
To show the validity of said rule,, the plaintiff in error relied upon the act of Congress of the 24th September, 1789,
sec. 34, (Laws U. S. vol. 1, 93) ; Act of 2d March, 1793, see. 7,
(Laws U. S. vol. 1, 335); Act of 19th May, (Laws U. S. vol. 4,
279); Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheaton, 1; Beers v. Haughton,
9 Peters, 330, "60, 361; Fullerton v. Bank U. S. 1 Peters, Sup.
Ct. Rep. 612; Williams v. Bank U. S. 2 Id. 96; Amiss v.
Smith, 16 Peters, 303.
11'r. Freemnan, for defendant in error.
In this case, a motion was made in the court below, to quash
the forthcoming bond, and vacate the original judgment. It was
sustained upon the ground of the judgment being a nullity,
there having been no service of process upon Hardeman, and no
appearance entered foi him.
It will be conceded, that if there be no notice, actual or constructive, the judgment is a .nullity. 4 Peters's Rep. 474; 2
Yerger's Rep. 484; 11 Wendell's Rep. 652; 15 Johnson's Rep.
141; 1 Smedes & Marshall's (Miss.) Rep. 351. There was no
"actual service" of process on Hardeman, as is shown by the
marshal's return. Did he have constructive notice? The statute

386

SU-PREME COURT.
Harris v. Hardeman et al.

of Mississippi provides, when the defendant is not found, that
constructive service may be made, and points out the mode.
Howard & Hutchinson's Dig. 683, sec. 27. The statute was not
complied with in executing the writ in thi5 case. It was served
by leaving a copy at defendant's residence. 'And is not even
dated. In construing this statute, the dourt"of last resort in
Mississippi, have several times held such service to be bad. As,
for-example, in the case of Smith v. Cohea, (3 Howard's Miss.
.Rep. 35,) it is held that a return on a writ "lexecuted by leaving a
copy at the boarding-house of the defendant,'' is insufficient.
•So, also, in the case of Fatheree v. Long, (5 Howard's Miss,
Rep. 661,) it is held that the return "executed by leaving a copy
at the defendant's house," is bad. And the court goes on to
say, that when the service is not personal, the return must show
that thp requirements of the statute were complied with. A
similar exposition of the statute was given in the cases of
Tomlinson v. Hoyt, and Eskridge v. Jones, 1 Smedes & Marshall's Rep. 515 and 595.
Had this motion been made at the term next succeeding that
at which the judgment was rendered, no one would doubt Hardeman's right to the relief s6ught by it. Does the giving -and
forfeiture of the forthcoming bond, and the lapse of time, bar
his right?
It is believed 'that if the giving and forfeiture of the forthcoming bond does not bar, the mere lapse of time cannot. For
there is no time limited by the statute within which such a motion may be made. That the giving and forfeiture of the forthcoming bond interpose no obstacle to the motion, is clear. It
is true, the court of last resort- in Mississippi, has frequently decided that a motion to quash a forthcoming bond, must be made
at the term to which it is returnable. 6 Howard's Miss. Rep.
540; 1 Smedes & Marshall's Rep. 347; Id. 386. Yet the same.
court has held that when the judgment is absolutely void for
want of jurisdiction in the court rendering it, either of the
subject-matter, or over the parties, the forthcoming bond is absolutely void also, and subject to be quashed, on motion, at
any time, either at, or subsequent to the return term. Buckingham v. Bailey, 4 Smedes & Marshall's Rep. 538.
A stronger reason may be added in this court. Here the
forthcoming bond is treated and considered as part of the process of the court. 16 Peters's Rep. 312, 313. In thi case, that
process is founded upon a judgment confessedly void. The
court can always control its own process; and will never permit
void writs to be issued and executed, when brought to its attention. And it can make no difference whether the effort to resist

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

337

Harris v. Hardeman et al.

the issuance and execution of such p-ocess is made within
one, or after a lapse of ten years, fron, the date of the void
judgment.
A rule of court, adopted by the District Judge, (Judge
Adams,) is relied on to show that the execution of the process
upon Hardeman, was sufficient. Upon this, I remark:
1. That even if the rule be valid, the service is not good, for
it has no date; and it does not appear, therefore, that it was
executed "fifteen days" before court, so as to give jurisdiction
of the person.
2. The District Judge has no power to adopt such a rule. 16
Peters's Rep. 314. The decision of the Circuit Court should
therefore be affirmed.
A/r. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error moved the Circuit Court to quash a
forthcoming bond, executed by the defendants to the plaintiff;
and to set aside the judgment on which the bond was founded,
upon the grounds that the forthcoming bond was taken in execution of a judgment entered against the defendant Hardeman,
as by default, when in truth there had been no service of original or mesne process upon him to warrant such a judgment.
The facts and proceedings in this case, as disclosed by the record,
are as follow: The plaintiff in error, in March, 1839, instituted
in the Circuit Court an action on a promissory note against the
defendant and three pthers; and upon the writ sued out in that
action, the marshal, on the 9th of April, made a retuin in these
words: "Executed on the defendant Hardeman, by leaving a
true copy at his residence." Upon this return of the officer, at
the next succeeding or return term of the court, in May, 1839, a
judgment by default for want of appearance, was taken against
the defendant Hardeman for the amount of the note, with interest and costs. Amongst other'ptoceedings upon this judgment,
a writ of fieri facias was sued out in k'larch, 1840, was levied
on sundry slaves, the property of Hardeman, and the forthcoming bond in question executed by him on the 20th of April,
1840. In pursuance of this forthcoming bond anotherfierifacias
was sued out on the 11th of June, 1840, and upon this last writ
was indorsed on the 8th of October, 1840, a cessat executio by
the plaintiff's attorney.
By the statute of Mississippi regulating proceedings in courts
of law, thte following modes for the service of process in certain
cases, are prescribed: "AU writs of scire.facias and capias ad
respondendum, where no bail is required, may be served in the
following manner: Where the defendant cannot be found, it
shall be deemed sufficient service of such writ for the sheriff or
voL. XIV.

29

338

SUPREME

COURT.

Harris v. Hardeman et al.

other officer to whom the same is directed, to leave a copy
thereof with the wife of the defendant or some free white person above the age of sixteen years, then and there being one of
the family of the defendant, and found at his usual place of
abode, or to leave a copy thereof at some public place at the
dwelling-house, or other known place of residence of such defendant, he being from home, and no such free white person
being found there willing to receive the same."
On the 18th of June, 1838, the District Judge for the Southern District of Mississippi, in the absence of the circuit or presiding Judge, caused to be entered on the minutes of the Circuit
Court, as a rule of proceeding in that court, an order in the following words, viz., ." The capiasad respandendum shall be served
by arresting the defendant, unless bail be waived; or where bail
be waived, or a summons shall issue, the same shall be served
personally, or if the defendant be not found, by leaving a copy
thereof at his or her residence, or usual place of abode, at least
twenty days before the return day thereof, to entitle the plaintiff
to 6. trial or judgment by default at the return term."
The action in this case was commenced by a summons, and
the marshal's return of the service of that process, and the
judgment thereupon by default at the return term, and the
subsequent pr6ceedings upon that'judgment, were as have been
already stated.
Upon the application of the defendant Hardeman, at the May
term of the Circuit Court, in the year 1850, until which time
the proceedings in this case had been stayed, the court quashed
the forthcoming bond and fieri facias suec out thereon, and set
aside the judgment purporting to be a judgment by default
against the defendant, as being unwarranted upon the face of
the proceedings, and therefore void.
In reviewing the decision of the Circuit Court, it should be
borne in mind, as a rule to guide and control our examination,
that the judgment impugned before that court was a judgment
by default, and that in all judgmeiifs by default, whatever may
affect their competency or regularity, every proceeding indeed,
from the writ and indorsements thereon, down to the judgment
itself, inclusive, is part of the record, and _s open to examination. That such cases differ essentially, in this respect, from
those in which there is an appearance and a contestatio lilis, in
which the parties have elected the grounds on which they choose
to place the controversy, expressly or impliedly waiving all others.
In support of the rule just stated, many authorities might be
adduced; we cite for it the cases of Nadenbush v. Lane, 4
Ran. 413, and of Wainwright v. Harper, 3 Leigh, 270.
Within the scope of this rule, two inquiri3s present themselves

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

339

Harris v. Hardeman et al.

in connection with the decision of the Circuit Court. The first
is this, whether the court in which the judgment by default was
taken, ever had jurisdictibn as to the defendant, so as to warrant the judgmeht entered against him by default. And the
second inquiry is, whether, upon the hypothesis that the court
had not jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, and that
the judgment against him was not bindingit was competent
for the Circuit Court, in the mode adopted by it, to set aside
the judgment, and to quash the proceedings consequent thereupon.
In reference to the first inquiry, it would seem to be a legal
truism, too palpable to be elucidated by argument, that no person can be bound by a judgment, or any proceeding conducive
thereto, to which he never was party or privy; that.no person
can be in default with respect to that which it never was incumbent upon him to fulfil. The court entering such judgment by
default could have no jurisdiction over the person as to render
such personal judgment, unless, by summons or other process,
the person was legally before it. A court may be authorized to
exert its powers in reference either to persons or things -may
have jurisdiction either in personam, or in rem, and the existence
of that jurisdiction, as well as the modes of its exercise, may
vary materially in reference to the subject-matter to which it
attaches. Nay, they may be wholly inconsistent; or at any
rate, so much so, as not to be blended or confounded. This
distinction has been recognized in a variety of decisions, in which
it has been settled, that a judgment depending upon proceedings
in personam can have no force as to one on whom there has
been no service of process, actual or constructive; who has had
no day'in court, and no notice of any proceeding against him.
That with respect to such a person, such a judgment is absolutely void; he is no party to it, and can no more be regarded
as a party than can any and every other member of the community. As amply sustaining these conclusions of law, as well as
of reason and common sense, we refer to the following decisions.
In Borden v. Fitch, (15 Johnson's Rep. 141,) Thompson, Chief
Justice, says: " To give any binding effect to a judgment, it is
essential that the court should have jurisdiction of the person
and the subject-matter; and the want of juffsdiction is a matter
that may always be set up against a judgment when sought to
be enforced, or where any benefit is'clainmed under it. The
want of jurisdiction makes it utterly void and unavailable for
any purpose. The cases in the English courts, and in those of
our sister States, are very strong to show that judicial proceedings against a person not served with process to appear, and not
being within the jurisdiction of the court, and not appearing in

SUPREME

COURT.

Harris v. Hardeman et al.

person or by attorney, are null and void. In'Buchanan v. Rucker,
(9 East, 192,) the Court of King's Bench declared that the law
would not raise an assumpsit upon a judgment obtained in the
Island of Tobago by default, when it appeared upon the face
of the proceedings that the defendant was not in the island
when the suit was commenced, and that he had been summoned
by nailing a copy of the declaration on the court-house door.
The court said it would have made no difirence in the case if
the proceedings had been admitted to be valid in the Island of
Tobago. In the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, Chief Justice
Parsons, in Bissell v. Briggs, 9 Mass. Rep. 464, lays down the
principle very clearly and distinctly, that bEfore the adoption of
the Constitution of the United States, and in reference to foreign judgments, it was competent to show that the court had
no jurisdiction of the cause; and if so, the judgment, if set up
as a justification for any act, would be rejected without inquifing into its merits.' After citing a number of cases, the learned
Judge proceeds to say: " We have refused to sustain an action
here upon a judgment in another State, where the suit was cornmenced by attachment, and no personal summons or actual notice given to the defendant, he not being at the time of the
attachment, within the State. In such cases, we have considered
the proceedings as in rem, and only binding the goods attached,
and the judguient having no force in persoaranr. This principle
is not considered as growing out of any thing peculiar to proceedings by attachment, but is founded on more enlarged and
geperal principles." It is said by the court, "that to bind a defendant personally by a judgment, when he was never personally
summoned, nor had notice of the proceedings, would be contrary to the first principles of justice."
It is worthy of notice, in this place, that the cases from 9 East,
and 9 Massachusetts Reports, cited by Chief Justice Thompson, were not instances in which the validity of those judgments
was examined upon appeal or writ of error, but were instances
in which that validity was inquired into collaterally, before other
tribunals in which they were adduced as evidence to sustain
other issues there pending.
In the case of Starbuck v. Murray, 5 WA'endell, 156, the Supreme Court of New York say: " The courts of Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, New Jersey, and Kentucky,
have also decided, that the jurisdiction of the court rendering a
judgment, may be inquired into, when a su.it is brought in the
courts of another State, on that judgment;" and, after citing
the cases of Thurber v. Blackburne, (1 New Hampshire Reports,
246) ; Benton: v. Bengot, (10 Sergeant & Rawle, 240) ; Aldrech v.
Henney, (4 Conn. Rep. 280); Curtis v. Gibbs, (Pa. Rep. 405,)

DECEMBER TE RM,

1852.

341

Harris v. Hardeman et al.

they say: "This doctrine does not depend merely upon adjudged cases; it has a better foundation; it rests upon a principle of natural justice. No man is to be condemned without
the opportunity of making a defence, or to have his property
taken from him by a judicial sentence, without the privilege of
showing, if he can, the claim against him to be unfounded."
The court then proceed to say, "But it is contended, that if
other matter may be pleaded by the defendant, he is estopped
froni asserting any thing against the allegation contained in thp
record. It imports perfect verity, it is said, and the parties to it
cannot be heard to impeach it. It appears to me, that this proposition a -surnes the very fact to be established, which is the
only question in issue. For what purpose does the defendant
question the jurisdiction of the court? Solely to show that its
proceedings and judgment are void, and, therefore, the supposed
record is, in trtqth, no record. If the defendant had not proper
notice of, and did not appear to, the original action, all the State
courts, with one exception, agree in opinion, that the paper introduced as to him, is no record, but, if he cannot show, even
against the pretended record, that fact, on the alleged ground
oi the uncontrollable verity of the record, he is deprived of his
defence, by a process of reasoning that, to my mind, is little less
than sophlstry. The plaintiffs, in effect, declare to the defendant- the paper declared on is a record, because it says you appeared; and you appeared, because the paper is a record. This
is reasoning in a circle. The appearance makes the record uncontrollable verity, and the record makes the appearance an
unimpeachable fact. Unless a court has jurisdiction, it can
never make a record which imports uncontrollable verity to the
party over whom it has usurped jurisdiction, and he ought not,
therefore, to be estopped from proving any fact which goes to
establish the truth of a plea alleging the want of jurisdiction."
By the same court, this doctrine is affirmed, in the case of
Holbrook v. Murray, 5 Wendell, 161. In the case of Denning
v. Corwin & Roberts, 11 Wendell, 648, it was ruled, "Thit
a judgment in partition, under the statute, where part of the
premises belonged to owners unknown, was not valid, unless it
appear, upon the face of the record, that the affidavit required
by the statute, that the petitioner, or plaintiff in partition, is
ignorant of the names, rights, or titles of such owners, was duly
p-esented to the court, and that the notice, also, required in such
cases, was duly published." And Chief 'Justice Savage, in delivering the opinion of the court, said: " On the part of the
plaintiff, it is contended that the judgment in partition is void,
for want of jurisdiction in the court, the requirements of the
btatute not having been complied vith; and, on the part of the
2O'"

342

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Hardeman et PI

defendants, it is insisted that it is conclusive until reversed o
set aside, that it cannot be attacked collaterally, and that th
defendants, being bond fide purchasers, are entitled to protec.
tion. That a judgment is conclusive upon parties and privies,
is a proposition not to be denied; but if a court has acted without jurisdiction, the proceeding is void, and if this appear on
the face of the record, the whole is a nullity." After quoting
the opinion of Chief Justice Thompson, in Borden v. Fitch,
15 Johnson, 121, Chief Justice Savage goes on to say: ". With
respect to the proceedings in partition, now the subject of consideration, there can be no doubt that the court, in which the
judgment was rendered, had jurisdiction of the subject of
partition; but, to authorize a judgment of partition, the parties
must be before the court, or it must be shown to the court that
some of them are unknown; and this must appear by the record,
where the proceeding is against owners unknown; it is a.proceeding in rem,and nothing is to be taken by intendment. There
is avowedly nothing like personal notice to the parties interested
as defendants; they are not even named; and the right of the
plaintiff depends entirely upon the fact, to be proved by affidavit,
that the owners are unknown." The Chief Justice, after showing the insufficiency, by proof of the affidavit, according to the
requisition of the statute, says: "The recosd then states, that at
a subsequent day the plaintiffs appear, by their attorney, and
the parties unknown being solemnly demanded, come not, but
make default. The statute gives the court no jurisdiction to
take any steps against unknown owners, until notice has been
published according to the statute. Should not the record,
therefote, show that it had been made to appear to the court, by
affidavit, that thle owners were unknown to the plaintiffs, and
that such notice as the statute requires, had actually been given?
Suppose a judgment record is produced, in which the plaintiff
declares upon a promissory note, and the record does not show
that the defendant is in custody, or has been served with pro.
cess, and yet the court render judgment by default, would not
such a recor.d be an absolute nullity ?" In the case of Wilson
et al. v. The Bank of Mount Pleasant, reported in the 6th of
Leigh,,Tucker, President of the court, thus announces the law:
"This is an action upon a judgment of the State of Ohio,
whicu it is contended, is conclusive in the courts of Virginia,
upon the principles of the Constitution of tl~e United States.
It is unnecessary, in this case, to go into the question of the
construction of that clause of the federal compact which relates
to the, effect of judicial proceedings of the several States in
other States, for it seems to be agreed, on all hands, that the
doctrine of the conclusiveness of the judgments of the several

DECEMBER T-ERM, 1852.

843

Harris v. Hardeman et al.

States, is to be taken with the, qualification, that, where the
court has no jurisdiction over the subject-matter, or the person,
or where the defendant has no notice of this suit, or was never
served with process, and never appeared to the action, the judgment will be esteemed of no validity." With this doctrine
entirely agrees another doctrine of the Supreme Court of Virginia, in the case of Wynn v. Wyat's Admr, 11 Leig., 534, in
which last case the court say, "That the appearagee oi the defendant, in term, and his motion to quash the attachment irregularly issued, and to set aside the proceedings at the rules,
founded upon it, was not an appearance to the action, dirpens.
ing with farther and proper process; that the award of the alias
summons was proper and necessary; and that the proceedings
on that subsequent process cannot be sustained, since, confessedly, it was not duly served." But the decision which
should be decisive upon the question now before us, is a decision of this court, in the case of Hollingsworth v. Barbour et
al., in the- 4th of Peters, p. 466. That 'was a: case exhibiting
the following features. A title had been made to land, by deed
from a Commissioner, acting under a decree in Chancery, in
the State Court in Kentucky, in which the "unknown heirs"
of a person from whom title was deduced, were made defendants, and the decree, as against those heirs, was taken by default,
after order of publication. The grantee of the Commissioner
filed his bill, to obtain possession of the lands, against various
persons who had taken possession thereof. The Circuit Court
of the United States dismissed the bill, upon the grounds that,
at the date of the proceedings in the State Court, (under which
the conveyance of the Commissioner purported to have been
made,) there was no law of the State authoiizing those proceedings against the unknown heirs of the original owner of
the land, and the decree taken upon' those proceedings, by
default against them, and, as they never had personal nolice of
the suiti the decree by default and the title made by the Commissioner, were null, as respected either those heirs, or the perFons in possession of the lands. The very lucid argument of
Mr. Justice Trimble, in the Circuit Court, which was adopted
literally and in extenso, by this court, is too long for insertion
here, but one or two of the conclusions reached by him, and
affirmed by this court, in the words of that Judge, may be
noticed. "The principle," said that Judge, and, said this court
in confirmation, "is too well settled, and too plain' to be controverted, that a judgment or decree, pronounced by a competent
tribunal, against a party having actual, or constructive notice,
of the pending of the suit, is to be regarded by every other'coordinate tribunal, and that, if the judgment or decree be errone-

844

SUPREME

COURT.

Harris v. Hardeman et a.

ous, the err(,. can be. corrected only by a supreme appellate
tribunal. The leading distinction is between judgments and
decrees merely void,and such. as are voidable only. The former
are binding.nowhefe, the latter everywhere, until reversed by a
superior authority. The suit and decree are against the unknown heirs of John Abel Hamblin. Instead of personal
service of process upon the defendants in the suit, an order of
publication was made against them; and, upon a certificate of
the publication of this order, for eight weeks, in an unauthorized
newspaper, being produced and filed in the cause, the bill was
taken pro confesso, and, at the next succeeding term, the final
decree was entered, directing the conveyance of the land to the
complainant. Again, that Judge and this court speakin'
through him, say: "It would seem that the court acted without
authority, and that the decree is void, for want of jurisdiction
in the court. But if not void as being corctr non judice, it is
void and wholly ineffectual to bind or prejudice the rights of
Hamlin's heirs, against whom the decree was rendered, because
they had no notice, either actual or constructive. The principle
of the tule, that decrees and judgments bind only parties and
privies, applies to the case; for, though the unknown heirs of
Hamlin are affected to be made parties in the bill, there was no
service of process, nor any equivalent, to bring them before the
court, so as to make them, in the eye of the law and justice,
parties to the suit." Here, again, it should be borne in mind,
that this is not an instance of reversal by an appellate tribunal,
'for error or irregularity in an inferior court, but a test, collaterally
applied by .an independent authority, to the character of proceedings, as void or voidable in their nature.
At this point it isproper
advert to the character and effect
of the process inlthe suit ofto Harris
and H~ardeman, as constitting service upon the defendants in that suit, and thereby in"vesting the court with jurisdiction over their rights. If the rule
prescribed by the statute of Mississippi, already referred to, is to
govern in this case, it is presumed that a doubt will, or can
hardly be raised ag to the insufficiency of the service, as there
are not less than three instances in which the requisites of the
statute have not been complied with. In the first place, it is
not shown, by the return, that the defendant could not be found,
which should have been shown, in order to justify the-substitution of any other in lieu of personal service. Sec6ndly, it is
not shown that a copy of the process was; left, either with the
wife of the defendant, or with some other free white person
above the age of .sixteeri years, being'one of the family of the defendant. Thirdly, it is not stated or proved that a copy was left
-at-some public place .Pf the dwelling-house of the defendant,

DECLUBER TERM, 1852.
Harris v. Hardeman et A1.

he being from home, and no free white person, as above described, being found there, willing to. xeceive the process. But
it has been contended, that by a rule adopted by the Judge of
the District Court, a mode for the service of process has been
prescribed, differing from that ordained by the statuteof Mississippi, and dispensi .ig with several of the requisites insisted on
by the statute, and that the service in the suit in the Circuit
Court was in conformity with the rule of the District Judge.
Forbearing, for the present, any inquiry as to the validity of the
rule made by the District Judge, under the decision of this
court, in the case of Amis v. Smith, 16 Peters, 303, we proceed to compare the proof of service as apparent upon the return of the marshal, with the requirements of the rule in question. This rule has been already quoted. The return of the
marshal has also been given totidern verbis. It will be seen
that the reason assigned in the rule, as forming the justification
for dispensing -iith personal service, is not stated in the return
of the officer, and there is an entire omission to give the date or
time preceding the term of the .ourt to which the process was.
returnable, so as to show that the plaintiff was authorized to
take a judgment by default, in virtue of a legal constructive
notice, and a failure of appearance. Whether, therefore, the
statute of Mississippi, or the rule made by the District Judge,
be regarded as operative, there was, in the suit iii the Circuit
Court, neither notice by personal service of process, nor notice
by legal construction. The judgment by default, therefore,
must be regarded as obnoxious to every impeachment of its
efficacy which can flow from its having been entered against
one who was-never a party in court, with respect to the proceedings upon which that judgment was taken. But there is
another view of the questions raised in this cause, which is
equally, or even more conclusive in favor of the decision now
under review. At the time of the motion to the Circuit Court
to quash the forthcoming bond and to set aside the judgment,
by default, that judgment was still unsatisfied, and was in the
progress of execution, and the forthcoming bond, filed in the
clerk's office, according to the laws of the -State, was properly
a part of the process of execution, the fieri facias being sued
out therein from the office without any urder Gf the court. The
proceedings then, still being as it were in fieri, and not terminated, it was competent for the court to rectify any irregularity
which might have'occurred in the progress of the cause, and
to do this either by writ of error coran vobis, or by audcita querela if the party ch.kose to resort to the latter mode. If this
position be maintainauie, then, there would seem to be an entire
removal of all exception to the judgment of the Circuit Court,

StPREME iCOURT.
Hoyt ot al. v. Hammekin et ux.

as it is believed to be the settled modern -practice, that in all
instances in which irregularities could formerly be corrected
upon a writ of error coram vobis or audita querela, the same
objects may be effected by motion to the court, as a mode more
simple, more expeditious, and less fruitful of difficulty and expense. In this case the cause was still under the contxol and
correction of the court, for the enforcement of its judgment and
the supervision of its own process, and in the exercise of this
function, it was competent fori it to look back upon the entire
progress of the case, up to the writ and indorsements thereon,
under the rule already stated, as applicable to judgments by
default, and to correct any irregularities which might be detected. In the present case there is less show 6f objection to
such action, on the partof the court, as it affects the rights of
no third parties, butis limited in its consequences to the parties
to the suit only. We order the judgment of the Circuit Cc art
to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN, ?4r. Justice WAYNE, and Mr. Justice
GRIER, dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Disfridt of Mississippi, and .was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circiuit Court, on the motion to quash
the forthcoming bond and to set aside the original judgment as
set forth in the record of this cause, be and the same is hereby,
affirmed with costs.

NATHANIEL. HOYT AND JAMES BLANDIN, A.DMINISTRATORS, &C.,
AND THE SAID JAMES BLANDIN, WILLIAM M. HUDSON, AND
JOSEPHINE, HIS "WIFE, HEIR

OF ANTOINE

BLArJDIN,

AND ELISHA M. PEASE, APPELLANTS, !.. GEORGE
MEKIN, AND ADELAIDE IATILDA, HIS WIFE.

DECEASED,

S.

HAM-

W e a title to land iri th6 Stateof Coahuila and Texa was obtained in 1833, by a
-mother for, and in the name of her daughter, and, in 1836, the father of the daughter
conveyed it away by a deed executed in Louisiana, this deed was properly set aide
by the District Court of Texas.
It was not executed either according to the laws of Louisiana, or those of Coahuila
and Texas.

.-1r.Justice Curtis was necessarily absent when this case was
considered and aecided.

