DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

575

Boyden v. Burke.
ide The Federalist, Nos. 7 and 11, and the cases of Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 *Wheat.,ft ;. New York v. Milne, 11 Peters, 102;
Brown v. The State of Maiyland, 12 Wheat. 419; and the License cases in 5 -Howard, 504.
The fact of procuring from the collector of-the port of Bangor a license to prosecute the coasting trade f6r the boat placedd
upon the Penobscot by the plaintiff in error, (the Governor
Dana,) does not affect, in the slightest degree, the rights or condition of the parties. These remain precisely as they would
have stood had no such license been obtained. A license to
prosecute the coasting trade, is a warrant tb traverse the waters
washing or bounding the coasts of the United States. Such a
license conveys no privilege to use, free of tolls, or of any condition whatsoever, the. cai.mls constructed by a Stale, or the
watercourses partaking of the character of canals exclusively
within the interior or a State, and made practicable for navigation by the funds of the State, or by privileges she may have
conferred for the accomplishment of the same end. The attempt to use a coasting license for a purpose like this, is, in the
first place, a departure from the obvious meaning of the document. itself, and an abuse -wholly beyond the object and the
power of the government in granting it.
Upon the whole, we are of the opinion that the decision of
the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Maine is in accordance with the 'Constitution of the United States, and ought
to be, and is hereby, affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Judicial Coirt of the State of Maine,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Judicial Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

URIAH A. BOYDEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. EDtAIUND BURKE.

Where an action was brought against the Commissioner of Patents for refusing to
give copies of papers in his office, aid no special damage was set out in the declaration, evidence of the professional pursuits of the applicant was not admis!
sible.

Where the application was. made through a third person, letters of both'parties to
this third person were admissible in evidence, as part of the res gestce.

SUPREME C'OURT.
Boyden v. Burke.
Patents are public records, and it is the duty of the Commissioner to give authenticated copies to any person, on payment of the legal fees.
But the party entitled to such services musf request theL- performance in a proper
manner, and not accompany his demand with insult or buse.
Hence, the Commissioner could not be held responsible for refusing to comply with
a demand couched in such language.
But when a second application was made, in "a proper manner, the Commissioner
ought to have complied with it.

THIS case Was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
Boyden was a citizen of Massachusetts,' and Burke was
Commissioner of Patents at the time when the transactions
took place which were the subject of the suit.
The ground of the action was, that Burke wilfully, maliciously, and corruptly, and with intent to injure Boyden, had refused to give c6pies of certain patents.
The bills of exceptions referred to certain letters, which will
be mentioned c
nologically.
On the 14th December, 1847, Boyden wrote a long letter to
Burke, too long to be inserted. The following extract from it
will be sufficient:
"If, in your letter of August 10, 1847. you mean by the
'office' yourself, or the author of the letters which I have received -from you, you prescribe two condtions in said letter
which are inconsistent, viz., that my letters to you, or to the
author .6f those letters subscribed by you, should .be both respectful and 1roper. It is improper to treat a person respectfully while it is known that he is unworthy of respect; theefore,
it is impossible to comply -ith your prescriptions. The claim
of unworthy office-holders to have people, as they say, respect
the offices they hold, while it is known that the incumbents are
unworthy of respect, is absurd. Do you mean, when you urge
people to respedt ' the office,' to have them respect you merely
because you hold the office, while it is known that you are unworthy of respect? This is a free country." &c. &c.
On the same day Air. Boyden wrote to Mr. Greenough, in
Washington, as follows:
BosoN, MAss., Deeember 14, 1847.
Siz,- Your letter of the 23d uit. was duly received. I wrote
to Mr. Burke to-day, criticizing hig conduct, and informing him
that I wish him to deliver to you a certified copy of each of the
following patents, including drawings, specifications, and claims,
or of all of them which .are recorded in the Patent-Office:
George W. Henderson and John E. Cayford's patent, dated
April 14, 1830, Charles Ienzie's.pateht,-dated July 1, 1836, and
J K. Millard's patent , dated May 9, 1846.
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

577

Boyden v. Burke.

You will oblige by tendering the fees for those copies if he
declines furnishing them; and if you obtain them, I wish you
to send them by mail to me at Boston. Respectfully,
(Signed)
URIAH A. BOYDEN.
Test:

JoHN A. SMITH, CILk.

MIr. Greenough, accordingly, called upon Mr. Burke, who declined to cause the copies .to be prepared for him, as the agent
of Mr. Boyden, and addressed to Mr. Greenough an explanatory letter, from which the following is 'an extract:
" Of these reasons, for declining to cause the copies to be
made for him, which you requested, you were duly apprised.
And you were also informed, as Mr. Boyden himself has been
informed, that, until he comes to the conclusion to treat this
office with the civility which the customs aid rules of official
intercourse require, this office will have no intercourse with him,
directly or through the agency of others. When, he concludes
to conduct his intercourse with this office with decency and
propriety, his business will be attended to."
On the 20th of January, 1848, Mr. Burke made the following
. memorandum, which he handed to Mr. Laskey, wh5 had called
for the same papers:
PATENT-OFFiCE, January 2% 1848.
Mr. R. H. Laskey, as the agent of Uriah A. Boyden-, calls for
the following copies of patents, including drawings, specifications, and claims, or of all of them, which are recorded in the
Patent-Office, viz., George W. Henderson and John E. Cayford's patent, dated April 14, 1830; Charles Kenzie's patent
dated July 1, 1846; and J. K. Millard's patent, dated May 9,
1846 ; for which he offers to pay the usual fees requiredi by law
for copies.
I hereby refuse to give him the copies called for for Mr. Boyden, or to transact any other business for Mr. Boyden with Mr.
Laskey. I do not refuse copies of any patents or other papers
which Mr. Laskey requires for himself or for any other person,
except Mr. Boyden. I refuse to do any business for Mr. Boyden, whether he applies for the same personally-or by agent,
until he comes to the conclusion to observe, in his commanications with this office, or its official head, the proprieties usually
observed in official intercourse. When he comes to the conclusion to address this office, or 'its head in respectful language,
any business which he may have with it will be done as it is
done for other persons, whether he applies in person or by agent.
EDMUND BURKE.

Mr. Boyden soon afterwards brought his action against
Burke, as above stated.
VOL. XIV.

49

578

SUPREME COUR'T.
Boyden v. Burke.

On the trial of the cause, the plaintiff's counsel took four
bills of exceptions; the first three of which related to evidence,
and the fourth an exception to a general instruction, that the
plaintiff was not entitled to recover.
They were as follows:
First Exception.
On the trial of the issue in this cause, the plantiff; to maintain the issue on his part joined, offered to give evidence tending to show that he is a citizen of the United States, Iresiding
in Boston, in the State of Massachusetts; that he is a civil
engineer and machinist, and as such was, in the month of
January, 1848, engaged in making improvements in " Turbines"
and "water-wheel s ;" that this fact -Was known to the defend
ant; that the defendant was at the same time Commissioner
of Patents; that the plaintiff, in order to see what machinery
having in view the same purpose, had been theretofore patented,
as well to guard himself against any suit by such previous patentees, for any alleged infringement of their said patents, as
also to avoid any infringement thereof, and to save himself
time, labor, and expense, required copies of certain patents then
of record in the Patent-Office, and which had been theretofore
issued to the persons mentioned in the memorandum of January 20th; that, on the 20th day of January, 1848, the said plaintiff applied to the said defendant, as Commissioner of Patents,
as aforesaid, for copies of the said patents, and tendered himself ready, and "offered to pay the usual fees required by law
for copies," and the defendant thereupon, a5 Commissioner, as
aforesaid, answered the said application in writing, as follows.
,To all which evidence, so as aforesaid Offered by the plaintiff
and to every part thereof, except- the said memorandum last
above mentioned, the defendant by his cbunsel objects, as inadmissible upon the issue joined, and the court refused to permit
the said evidence, so objected to, to be given; and thereupon,
the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepts thereto.
&econd Exception.
The plaintiff then read in evidence, without objection, the
memorandum made by the defendant, dated 20th January,
1848, and then gave evidence tending to show that, on or about
the 22d day of December,, 1847, . J. Greenough, by authority
of:the plaintiff, called at -the Patent-Office. to obtain for him
copies of three several patents, which had theretofore been
issued, by said. office for "Turbines" or "water-wheels;" that he
was referred by the clerk, to whorm he applied, to the defendant,
and informed defendant, that he had been requested by the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

'579

Boyden v, Burke.

plaintiff to obtain for him copies of those patents, and defend.
ant refused, saying he would not have any thing to do with Mr.
Boyden,.directly or indirectly, or words to that effect; and, upon
his cross-examination, witness stated, that he asked Mr. Burke
to give him in writing his reasons for so refusing, which.he
then and there promised to do; and some days after the witness
received a letter from the defendant containing those reasons,
which lefter he had transmitted to the plaintiff; and then, upon
cross-examination, the counsel for the defendant called upon
the plaintiff to produce said letter, and the plaintiff, admitting
he had said letter then in court, refuses to produce the same, on,
the ground that the said letter, if produced, would not be evidence; but the court, overruling the objection of the defendant.,
ordered the same to be produced, and thereupon the said letter
was produced by the plaintiff; and the defendant, by his counsel, offers to read the same in evidence, and' the plaintiff, by his
counsel, objects thereto, but the court permits the same to be
read in evideifce, and it is read accordingly, as follows; and the
plaintiff, by his counsel, excepts thereto, &c. &c.
Third Exception.
And here the plaintiff rested; and thereupon the defendant
offered to read, in evidence, a letter addressed to hin by the
plaintiff, dated 14th 'December, 1847, and also a letter from
plaintiff to T. . Greenough, which it is admitted is the same
etter referred to in the testimony of said Greenough, as containing the authority under which he applied for the copies
of patents, as testified by him in 'his examination by the plaintiff, which lefter bears date the 14th December, 1847, to tire
admissibility of which said letters, or either of them, as evidence
in,this cause, the plaintiff, by his counsel, objects, and the
court overrules the said objection, and permits both of said letters to be read in evidence; and the handwriting of the plaintiff thereto being admitted; the same are read accordingly, and
the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepts thereto, &c. &c.
Fourth Exception.
And thereupon, and upon the whole evidence aforesaid, the
defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury that upon the
evidbnce aforesaid, if the same is believed by tho jury, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action; which instruction
the court gave, and the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepts thereto,
&C. &e.
Upon these exceptions, the case came up to this court, and
was argiied by 31r. Bradley, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr.
Coxe, for the defendant in error.

SUPREME COURT.
Boyden v. Burke.

211r. Bradley contended that the Circuif Court erred in each
one of the above rulings.
First. The defendant was, by law, bound to give the copies
asked for, if they could be made consistently with the public
interest.
1. The Patent Office is for certain purposes an office of public record, in like manner as the office in which the titles to real
property are recorded:
From the very name; tne object; the na.ture of the contract
between the government and the patentee; the effect of the
granting the patent as to the right granted; and the notice
implied; the manner in which the title is secured, and by which
to be transferred; the necessity to prevent
a right under it is.
litigation; to prevent conflicts; to avoid the expenditure of time
and money.
2. For like reasons, if no provision were made by law for
copies, still the keepers of those records should be bound to
give them.
3. The original statute, and each successive one, made provision for such copies. Act 10th April, 1790, 1 Stat. at Large,
109, § 1, 2, 3; Act 21st February, 1793, Id. 318, § 1, 4, 11; Act
4th July. 1836, 5 Stat. at Large, 118, § 4, 5, 11; Act 3d March,
1837, Id. 191, § 1, 2, 12 ; Act 3d March, 1839, Id. 353, § 2, 8;
Act 29th August, 1842, Id. 542, § 2, 6.
Th.. law, in terms, provides copies in cases in which they are
to be used as evidence, and makes them evidence. It dqes not
stop here, but directs copies of the records, drawing, and other
papers deposited in the office, to be given to any person making
application for them, orr their, paying certain fees therefor.
It requires a record of the claim, specification, drawings, the
patent therefor, and the assignment thereof. It imposes heavy
penalties upon an infringement of the patent, and makes these
records notice of the particulars of the right granted.
Its design, in authorizing copies to every person applying for
them, is obvious; that is, protection against the danger of incurring these penalties. The reason for requiring copies in
such cases, is obviously the same as that which requires them
to be given in cases of contest. Prevention is often better than
redress.
Second. The duty was purely ministerial, involving no discretion; and it will be further contended 1. The general proposition, that, for a refusal by a public
officer to do a mere ministerial act, to the injury of another's
right, an action will lie.
2. The injury is to be compensated in damages, and if the
officer has acted in good faith, the measure of damages is the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

581

Boyden v. Burke.

actual injury sustained; if he has acted wilfully, maliciously,
corruptly, or by color of his office, with intent to injure, the
party injured will be entitled to recover such damages as the
jury may see fit to give.
As to the first branch o this second point, Tracy & Balles.
tier v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 80; 9 How. 259.
As to the second branch, Hucde v. Money, 2 Wils. 205;
Beardmore v. Carrington, Id. 244; Dinsman v. Wilkes, 12 How.
401-406; Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 371.
Third. Evidence is admissible, in this last case, to show that
the officer knew the nature of the injury he was inflicting, and
therefore it was competent for the plaintiff to give in evidence
the facts stated in plaintiff's bill of exceptibns, not as indicating
a measure of damages, but to give the jury some knowledge of
the nature, character, and degree of the injury, as a guide in
forming an estimate of the extent to which they might rightfully go in inflicting punitive as well as compensatory damages.
Marest v. Harvey, 5 Taunt. 442; Woert v. Jenkins, 14 Johns.
'352; Whipple v. Walpole, 10 N. H. Rep. 130; Wallace, Jr. R.
164; and eases under second point.
Fozirth. The letter written by the defendant to Mr. Greenough,
set out in the 2d bill of exceptions, was not evidence for any
purpose.
1. Mr. G-reenough had no authority to require it.
2. It was but an amplification of his first refusal, and not
explanatory of it.
3. It was the party's own letter, offered in evidence by himself,
not originally called for by plaintiff, and not in any manner admitted or acquiesced in by him. Farlie v. Denton, 3 C. & P.
103; 14 E. C. L. II. 227, 228; Healey v. Thatcher, 8 C. & P.
23S; 34 E. C. L. R. 442; Whifford v. Bnckmeyer & Adams, 1
Gill, 127, 140; Van Buren v. Digges, 11 How. 461,477; Towle
v. Stevenson, 1 Johns. Ca. 112; Champlin v. Tilley, 3 Day, 306;
Antoine v. Coit, 2 Hall, N. Y. 40, 46, 47.
Fifth. The letter to the defendant, set out in the 3d bill of
exceptions, was not evidence for the defendant for any purpose.
The letter from the plaintiff to Mr. Greenough was admissible
to show his authority from the plaintiff, and shows conclusively
that he had no authority to ask for or to receive defendant's
written statement, set out in the 2d exception.
But the letter written by plaintiff to defendant, on the 14th
December, 1847, was not evidence in mitigation of his reffisal
on the 22d December, 1847, or on the 2d January, 1848; and it
could have been admissible for no other ptirpose.
That letter would have reached here on the 18th December,
49 *

SUPREME

COURT.

Boyden v. Burke.

1847, at furthest, by due course of mail, and the defendant had
abundant tine to get cool before the 22d of that month.
The refusals were both given deliberately, wilfully, with the
intent to punish, that is, to injure the plaintiff, and the malige
is so much the greater.
111r. Coxe, for the defendant in error, made the following
points:
1. That the Circuit Court ruled according to law on all the
points raised in the bills of exception.
2. That the action is founded upon a misconception of the
4th section of the act of Congress of July 41h, 1836.
3. That if the plaintiff's case is embraced by that section, the
evidence in the record furnishes a complete justification of the
acts of defendant.
4. That the declaration sets forth no legal cause of action.
Mr. Justice GRIER deliveied the opinion of the court.
The bills of exception, taken by the plaintiff to the rejection
and admission of testimony on the trial, have not been supported.
The declaration charges, that the defendant-, Burke, was Commissioner of Patents, and as such was bound to grant to applicants therefor, copies of patents, &c., on payment of fees. That
tbhe plaintiff tendered the customary fees and demanded copies
of certain patents, which defendant refused -.o give him, to the
damage of plaintiff, $10,000, &c.
As no special damage is alleged, the court very properly, refuse to receive evidence tending to prove it.
A demand for certain copies was made through the agency
of Mr. Greenough, but accompanied with a letter from plaintiff
to defendant, requesting him to deliver the copies to Mr.
Greenough. This letter, with -the answer of defendant thereto,
was properly received as part of the tes gestv, or as a conversation between the parties, reduced to writing.
A bill of exceptions was also taken to the charge of the
court, who instructed the jury, "that, upon the evidence before
them, the plaintiff was not entitled to recover."
As the plaintiff had shown a demand of the copies, with
tender of fees, and a refusal of defendant, .he had made out his
case as laid in his declaration, and was entitled to a verdict for
nominal damages, unless by law he was not entitled to demand
§uch copies, or defendant had shown a sufficient excuse for refusing them. Patents are public records. All persons are
bound to take notice of their contents, and consequently should
have a right to obtain copies of them. The patent law of 1836,
.§4, enacts that "any. person making application therefor may

DECEMBER

TERM, 1852.

583

Boyden v. Burke.

have certified copies," &c. These records being in the care and
-ustody of the Commi~sioner of Patents, it is his duty to give
authenticated copies to any person who shall demand the same,
as soon as he conveniently can, on payment of the legal fees.
Where there is a right on the one side, and a corresponding duty
imposed on the other, a refusal to perform such duty, on the
reasonable request of the party entitled to demand it, will subject the officer to an action. But the party entitled to such
services must request it in a proper manner. He has no right
to accompany his demand with personal insult, or vulgar abuse
of the officer. Those to whom the people have committed high
trusts, are entitled at least to common courtesy, and are not
bound to submit to the insolence or ill temper of those who disregard the decencies of social intercourse. A demand, accompanied with rudeness and insult, is not a legal demand. The
letter, accompanying the plaintiff's demand in this case, was
taunting, insulting, and libellous, indicating a want of taste and
temper. And if the case had rested here, we could have found
no fault with the instruction of the court. But the plaintiff
showed another demand, some two weeks after the first, by
his agent, which was made in a proper manner, and unaccompanied with any insulting missive. The defendant was
not justified in refusing this demand on account of the former misconduct of the plaintiff, or to enforce an apology by
withholding his rights. Ill manners or bad temper do not work
a forfeiture of men's civil rights. While the want of an apology
for his previous rudeness and insult might well justify the de.
fendant in refusing all social intercourse with the plaintiff, yet
it could not release him from the obligations imposed upon him
by his official stati6n, or entitle him to disregard the rights
guaranteed to the plaintiff by the laws of the land.
The court below erred, therefore, in not instructing the jury
that if they believed the testimony, the plaintiff was entitled t(
a verdict for nominal damages.
The judgment is reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment bf
the said Circuit Court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed with costs; and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court with directions'to
award a venire facias de novo.

