240

SUPREME COURT.
Downey v. Hicks.

State of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that
the judgment of the said Supreme Court of Errors and Appeals
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Supreme Court of Errors and Appeals, with directions to affirm
the judgment of the District Court for the county of Galveston
in said cause, with costs in said Supreme and District Courts.

JAMES W.

DOWNEY,

EXECUTOR

OF

SAMUEL

S.

DOWNEY, DE-

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MARY IN. HICKS, EXECUTRIX OF JOSEPH T. HIcKs, DECEASED.

CEASED,

Where the declaration, in an action of assumpsit, contained the following counts:1. On a promissory note; 2. LindebLitatus assumpsit for the hire of slaves; 3. An
account stated; 4. Quantwn vaabat for the services of slaves; 5. Wor and labor,
goods sold and delivered, and money lent and advanced ; 6. foney had and received; 7. An account stated; 8: A special agreement for the hire of slaves" And
the defendant pleaded.- I. The general issue; 2. Stztute of limitations; 3. Payment;-and the jury found a verdict for "the defendant upor th tissue joined as to
the within note of four hundred and fifty-six dollars, and the xhiin aecount"-this
verdict, although informal, was sufficient to authorize to enter a general judgment
for the defendant.
An objection cannot be made in this court to a release under which a witaess was
sworn, unless the objection was made in the court belov, and an exception taken.
Where a certificate'of deposit in a bank, payable at a futare day, was handed over by
a debtor to his credito; it was no payment, unless there was an express agreement
on the part of the creditor, to receive it as such; and the question, whether there
was or was not such an agreement, was one of fact to be decided by the jury.
The bank being insolvent when the certificate of depot it becariie due. there was no
ground for imputing negligence in the collection of th.- debt by the holder, as no
loss occurred to the original debtor.
If the evidence showed that, after the maturity of the certificate, the driginal debtor
admitted his liability to make it good, the jury should have been .,istrncted that
this evidence cohduced to prove that the certificate was not taken in payment.

Mr. Chief Justice Taney did not sit in this cause.
THIS case was brought up, by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
There were three bills of exceptions taken upon the trial in
the Circuit Court, which extended over moie than one hundred
pages of the printed record. The last one included the whole
of the evidence. The substance of the case is given in the
opinion of the court, to which the reporter refers the reader.
It was argued by Mr. Badger,with whom was Mr.William
A. Grahamjfor the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Volney B. Howard,
with whom was Mr. Walker, for the defendant in error.
The'argument of the counsel for the plaintiff in error, was so

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

241

Downey v. Hicks.

intermingled with their statement of the facts in the case, that
it will be necessary to insert the whole.
The declaration of the plaintiff in error, who was the plaintiff
in the court below, is an assumpsit, and contains eight counts.
The first is on the promissory note of testator, in the name
of Hicks & Arnold, for $456; the second is indebitatus assumpsit for hire of forty slaves; the fourth a quantum valebat for the
services of forty other slaves; the third and seventh, each upon
an account stated; the fifth for work and labor, goods sold and
delivered, and money lent and advanced, and the seventh for
money had and received; the eighth and last count is upon a
special agreement of testator to hire from the plaintiff certain
slaves mentioned in the count, and to pay the same rates of hire
as" the testator had agreed to pay Williams & Mills for the
same slaves, &c.
The defendant pleaded 1st, the general issue; 2d, the statute
of limitations; 3d, payment, upon which plea issues were joined,
and the cause tried. The jury found a verdict in these words:
"That they find for the defendant upon the issues joined, as to
the within note of four hundred and fifty-six dollars, and the
within account," and upon this finding, the court gave a general judgment for the defendant.
It is insisted, on the part of the plaintiff in error, that the verdict is imperfect, irresponsive to the issues, and does not dispose
of the whole matter submitted by the pleadings; that upon the
most favorable interpretation which can be given of it, it passes
only on the first count on the note, and the third, and seventh
upon accounts stated, and leaves the matters arising upon the
five other counts entirely undisposed of. That this verdict being
thus imperfect, partial, and irre§ponsive to the issue, and consequently illegal, does. not support the judgment, which is therefore erroneous.
The first bill of exceptions states, that the plaintiff objected to
the reading of the deposition of Andrew Arnold, taken for the
defendant, on. the ground of his incompetency, but the objection
was overruled, and the deposition read to the jury. Arnold was
at one time plainly interested and incompetent.
In order to meet the objection, the defendant, by his 16th interrogatory, asks the witness, "Are you interested in this case ?
if you have any release from the executrix of Joseph T. Hicks,
please mark it, art inclose it." To which the 'witness answers,
" I am not interested in this case; I have a release from Mary
Al. Hicks, the surviving executrix of Joseph T. Hicks, deceased,
which is marked with the letter A, and is hereto attached." By
reference to the paper set out in the second, it appears to have
been attested as a witness by one John Curan.
vo.

xiv.

21

242

SUPREM1E COURT.
Downey v. Hicks.

It is insisted, for the plaintiff in error, tliat the deposition ought
not to have been read, because there was no legal evidence of
the execution of the release.
1. The subscribing witness ought to have been produced, or
his absence accounted for, and his handwriting proved, or other
proper matter shown, to let in 'secondary evidence of the execution of the deed. This rule is of general application to all
instruments attested, or appearing to have been attested, by a
witness, whether produced to support tl'e hetion, or used collaterally in evidence, and that no acknowledgment of the party,
however solemn, though made on oath, -"ill supply the want of
evidence as to the subscribing witness. 2 Phillips, Ev. ch. 6,
p. 201 to 203; Call v. Dunning, 4 jEast, 53.
The rule is very well and forcibly stated by -Mr. Starkie. 1
Stark. on Ev. Part 2, ec. 139, p. 330.
In order to render a witness competent by a release, it must
be produced and proved as in other cases. 2 Stark. Ev.
Part 4, p. 759; Corking v. Jarrard, 1 Camp. 37; and it is then
evidence in the cause for all purposes. Starkie, vt supra; Gibbons v. Wilcox, 2 Stark. Cas. 39.
2. There is no eVidence of theexecution of the release at all.
The witness ooays, " I have"a release," which I annex. He does
not swear to the execution, or the handwriting, or the acknowledgment of it. Suppose it a forgery, how could he be
indicted for perjury?
Another bill of exceptions, is to the admission by the Judge,
of A. WY.Brien as a witness for the defendant. Brien, in his
voir dire, stated that he was the husband of a daughter of
Sarah Curan, to whom, by the will of defendant's testator, a
legacy was given; that he and his wife had received $1500 in
full of his share of the estate, and had released to the defendant.
It is insisted that the witness was liable to refund to the
defendant, and without her release was not competent. ?Ioffit
v. Lane, 2 Iled. 254.
The same bill states that the defendant produced an accountbook, kept by the testator, and the said witness having deposed
that a certain portion of the book was in the hdxidwritinig of
.John R. Hicks, that portion of the account was allowed by the
Judge to be read to the jury, notwithstan6Jng objection taken
thereto by plaintiff's counsel.
It isinsisted, on the part of the plaintiff, that 'this account
was not competent evidence, because the said John R. Hicks
was not a general agent of plaintiff, nor his agent to state the
account, nor in any other manner so connected with the plaintiff as to make his statement evidence against plaintiff.
By the third bill of exceptionsit appears that the defendant's

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

243

Downey v. Hicks.

testator was, in 1836, the agent of plaintiff to receive the hires
of certain slaves, owned by him in Mississippi; that he collected
large sums on account thereof; that he afterwards took the
slae,6s into his own employment, as hirer, to execute a contract
on the Mississippi Railroad; that subsequently, in 1838, having
forgied a partnership with one Arnold, he continued the slaves
in the employment of this firm of "Hicks & Arnold"
The said testator, and Hicks & Arnold, being thus indebted
,to the plaintiff in a large amount, Dr. John R. Hicks, a neighbor of plaintiff's in North Carolina, and a brother of the testator, visited Mississippi, in June, 1839, to collect hires due for his
own negroes, alid took with him a letter from plaintiff, desiring
the testator to send him whatever was due him, to the amount
of $12,000, if possible. An account was then stated, showing
a balance due plaintiff, 1st January, 1839, of nearly $10,000.
The testator thereupon drew a check upon the MTIississippi Railroad Bank, for the amount, which the witness Arnold deposes
was received by John R. Hicks, as plaintiff's agent, in payment,
but Hicks himself deposes that he had no authority to bind the
plaintiff, merely acting as his friend. The said testator and
John R. Hicks then went to Natchez, to make further arrangements respecting the business, where the check was converted
into a certificate of deposit for the same amount, dated 10th
January, 1849, and payable with eight per cent. interest, on
the 1st of November following. This certificate is copied in
the record.
It was proved, by the deposition of Eli Montgomery, president of the bank, that this certificate was not issued upon
any deposit, but in settlement of a debt due to Hicks & Arnold,
and made payable on the 1st of November, by which day it
was supposed the bank would have funds to meet it; that,
in March, 1840, it was admitted by the testator, Andrew
Arnold, and the plaintiff, that " Hicks & Arnold" owed plaintiff
a large debt, for the hire of negroes, and had sent this c~rtificate
to him on account of their debt, and that plaintiff had refused
to accept it in payment or satisfaction of any part of the debt;
that Hicks & Arnold were bound to plaintiff to pay the
debt (if the bank did not pay the cectificate) in the same manner and to the same extent as if the certificate had not been
sent. It was proved that the credit of the bank had greatly
sunk at the maturity of the certificate, became continually
worse, and by April, 1840, it had stopped payment; that a suit
was brought, by concert betVeen Hicks & Arnold and plaintiff,
against the bank, Hicks & Arnold admitting their own liability,
and no satisfaction was ever obtained from the bank.
The plaintiff's counsel prayed the Judge to instruct the jury:
-(See the substance of the prayer in the opinion of the court.)

244

SUPREME COURT.
Downey v. Hicks.

,These instructions the Judge refus6d tb give, as prayed, and,
by the instructions actually given, he manifestly erred, by substantially repudiating proper instructions, and by leaving to the
jury to decide questions of law which he ought to have decided
himself.
The acceptance of the certificate by plaintiff, was not in law
an extinguishment of the debt, unless there was an express
agreement so to accept it; and the burden of proof, that the certificate was given and received as a satisfaction or extinguishment of the preceding debt, was upon the defendant.
A bill, or note, given for a preceding debt, is not deemed payment, unless so expressly agreed, or it has been negotiated,
and is outstandingagainst the defendant. Burden v. Halton, 4
Bing. 454; Rott v. Watson, Ibid. 273; Raymond v. Merchant,
3 Cam. 147; Owenson v. Morse, 7 T. R. 64; I-lickly v. Hardy',
7 Taunt. 312; Mussen v. Price eta]. 4 East, 147. See also Greenwood v. Curtis, 6 Mass. 358 ; Johnson v. Johnson, 11 Mass. 361 ;
Murray v. Governeur, 2 Johns. Ca. 438; Johnson v. Weed, 9
.Johns. 310.
Nor is the receipt of a note as cash, evidence that it was,
taken as an absolute payment. • Tobey v. Barber, 5 Johns 68.
It is but a suspez tion of the right of action, until the maturity of the note. I utnam v. Lewis, 8 Johns. 389.
In the absence of proof that a draft or check was received in
absolute payment, it is regarded but as -. means -whereby the
creditor may obtain payment -as payment provisionally, until
dishonored; and if dishonored, it is no payment. The People
v. Howell, 4 John . 296; Cromwell v. Lovett, 1 Hall, N. Y. Rep.
56; Olcott v. Rathbone, 6 Wrend. 490; Everett v. Collins, 2
Camp. 515; Puckford v. Maxwell, 6 T. R. 62.
What is true of notes, checks, and bills, is true also of the
certificate; and yet the Judge refused the instructions prayed to
this effect.
The Judge, after some general and immaterial statements of
the duty of an agent, proceeds to leave to the jury to decide
what was reasonable diligence on the part of the plaintiff in
endeavoring to obtain payment of the certificate from the bank.
But what diligence is reasonable, is a question of law, (the
facts of the case being ascertained,) to be 6.ecided by the Judge,
and not by the jury. 1 Stark. Part 3, sec. 27, page 414;
Battle v. Little, 1 Dev. Rep. 387.
Besides, the rule as to the kind of diligence necessary, on the
part of the plaintiff, is erroneous.
The, bank, at the maturity of the certificate, was failing;
shortly after, stopped payment. Hicks & A-nold paid nothing
for the certificate, but took it on account of a debt which the

DECE3BER TERM, 1862.

245

Downey v. Hicks.

bank could not pay. All the facts were fully known to them,
but not to the plaintiff. Under these circumstances, nothing
but such gross and long-continued negligence, on the part of the
plaintiff, as would amount to a fraud, would discharge Hicks &
Arnold, considered as guarantors. Goring v. Edmbnds,. 6 Bing.
94, 19 E. C. L. 14.
This case is to be tested, not by the rules applying to negotiable instruments. If no loss was sustained for want of"
notice or suit, want of notice or suit does not affect the plaintiff's right. See Shewell v. Knox, 1 Dev. 412, and cases there
cited.
Again, the Judge informs the jury that the plaintiff was
bound by the act of Hicks, his agent, "if ratified" by him;
whereas, he should have informed the jury what acts or declarations of plaintiff would araount to -a ratification, and left
them to decide,.as their proper function, whether those acts or
declarations had been proved.
The Judge ought to have told the jury, as prayed by the
plaintiff, that bringing suit on the certificate to the first court
after it became due, &c., was reasonable diligence. But to leave
a matter of law to the jury, is itself error. Panton v. Williams,
in Error; 2 Adolph. & Ellis, N. S. 169; Beale v. Roberson,
Ired. 276.
The Judge ought to have instructed the jury that the acknowledgment of Hicks & Arnold, after the certificate fell due, if
made by them, was evidence that it was not taken as absolute
payment, &c., as prayed by the plaintiff.
The counsel for the defendant in error made the following
points.
1. Joseph T. hicks was the agent of Downey, and even if he
took the certificate of deposit in good faith, exercising the care
which a prudent man should do in the management of his own
affairs, he could not be held liable for the subsequent failure of
the bank. He had reason to believe the bank was solvent; and
as the certificate boye interest, it was considered better than
specie as a remittance.
2. The proof on the record is sufficient to show, that John R.
Hicks was the agent of Downey at the time of the settlement
in 18:39, but the subsequent reception of the certificate from Dr.
John Hicks, by Downey, was an ample satisfaction of all he had
done, even if he had no power to make the settlement in the
first instance, and equivalent to an original authority. Story on
Agency, , 539; Dunlap's Pailey, 171, note 0.; Lawrence v.
Taylor, 5 Hill, 107, 113.
3. It vWas the duty of Downey to have dissented from the ar.
21 4V

246

SUPRFM

COURT.

Downey v. Hicks.

rangement, and refused the certificate of deposit at the time it
was tendered to him; but at all events, it was gross negligence,
and not a reasonable time, to wait three or four years without
notifying . T. I-ickey that he could not receive it as a payment.
Pailey's Arg. 172, note; 2 Kent, 127; Caines v. Bleeker, 12 J.
R. 300.
4. John Hicks proves that Downey took the certificate as absolute payment; and being thus accepted, was a good discharge
of the debt; especially as it was in the name of Downey.
Story on Contracts, § 998; 2 Greenleaf, Ev. § 523; Whitbeck v.
Van Ness, 11 J. R. 409; 15 lb. 241.
Whether it was accepted in satisfaction, was a question for
the jury. 15 S. & R. 162; 9 J. R. 310.
5. The rulings of the court, it is submitted, were correct. It
WM be seen that the questions are not leading, if he apply to
them the test which the iules of evidence establishes as a criterion. Greenleaf's Ev. § 434.
. It will be admitted that several of the instructions, asked for
by.plaintiff, did not apply to the proof in the record, especially
the first. It is submitted that the instruztions given covered
every legal proposition asked for by the plaintiffs.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opirlion of the court.
This case was brought before us by a writ of error to the
Circuif Couit for the Southern District of Mississippi.
An action of assumpsit was commenced by the plaintiff, on
a note for four hundred and fifty-six dollan, and a large surm for
the hire of slaves.
The declaration contained ten counts, to which the defendant
pleaded von assurnpsit,the statute of limitations, and payment,
Dn all o, which issues were joined.
The jury "found for the
defendant upon the issues joined as to the within note of four
hUndred'and fifty-six dollars, and' the within account." This
finding, it is contended, is imperfect, irresponsive to the issues,
and does not dispose of the whole matter submitted by the
pleadings.
A verdict is bad if it varies from the issue in a substantial
roatter, or if Lt finds ohily a part of that which is in issue; and,
though the court may give form to a general finding, so as to
make i. harmonize with the issue, yet if it appears that the
finding is different from the issue, or is confined to a part only
of the"niatter in issue, no judgment can be rendered upon the
verdict. Patterson v. United States, 2 Wheat. 221. The verdict rendered .was informal, but there was sufficient to authorize
the court t( enter it in form. The matter in controversy was
the note stated and the hire of the negroes, the amount claimed

DECEM1BER TERM, 1852.

247

Downey v. Hicks.

for which, was stated in an account; and on both these the j ury
found for the defendant, on the issues joined. We think this
-was sufficient.
Andrew Arnold, a copartner of the testator, was offered as a
witness, and being objected *to on the ground of interest, a
release was given in evidence, which, on its face, appeared to be
duly executed; on which the witness was sworn. Objection is
made that the execution of the release was not -proved. The
answer to this is, that there was no exception taken to the paper
on that ground.
From the facts, it appears that Joseph T. Hicks, now represented by his executrix, was indebted to the plaintiff on the 10th
Januar, 1839, on a settlement, nine thousand seven hundred and
ninety-nine dollars and eighty nine cents, for the hire of negroes,
which John R. Hicks, the friend of Downey, received in a certificate of deposit from the Mississippi Railroad Bank, situated
at Natchez, payable on the 1st of November ensuing, for which
he executed a receipt. He was not authorized to act as the
agent of Downey, but he acted as his friend in the business.
Being assured by his brother, Joseph T. Hicks, and others, that
the bank was good, (and as a reason for this opinion it was
stated that wealthy men had an interest in the bank,) and as
eight per cent. interest was paid for deposits, the certificate was
preferred, believing it would be satisfactory to the plaintiff. At
the time of this transaction the bank was indebted to Joseph
T. Hicks and Arnold, for labor on the railroad, a sum exceeding
twenty thousand dollars. The mode of payment was by drawing a check on the bank for several claims, and then crediting
on the books of the bank, as a.deposit, the sum due to each
claimant.
In February ensuing, when John R. Hicks returned to North
Carolina, where he and the plaintiff resided, he handed over to
Downey the cerdficate of deposit, who received it, saying he
would have preferred the gold and silver; but said nothing further in repudiation or confirmation of the act of Hicks. In a
letter dated the 3d of March, 1839, from J. T. Hicks and Arnold,
to the bank, they say, " We have ever entertained the kindest
feeling towards your institution, and every disposition of indulgence to the utmost of our ability. The time has now arrived
when ruin awaits us, from a total inability to use your postnotes to meet our engagements;" and they proposed to take
some money and negroes for the money due them from the bank,
or to take the whole in negroes, if the money could not be paid.
For a short time after the date of the certificate of deposit,
the bank continued to pay small notes in specie, but evidence
was -given conducing to show it was unable to meet its engage.

SUPREME COURT.
Downey v. Hicks.

ments, and that in a short time it failed. Suit was brought by
Downey against the bank on the certificalte of deposit, in the
spring of 1840; and also for other sums, due him from Hicks
& Arnold, by arrangements with them. But nothing could: be
xecovered from the bank.
Evidence was offered with the view of showing that Downey
considered the 'certificate of deposit as gocd, and that he said
he could not complain of Hicks, in receiving the certificate, as
he had received a similar one on his own account.
Evidence was also given to show that on the eleventh of
March, 1840, Joseph T. Hicks and Arnold, admitted the certificate of depqsit was 'given -as collateral security, and that they
considered themselves bound to pay the debt due the plaintiff,
including the certificate of deposit, and other demands. Evidence was also given to explain this conversation as referring
exclusively to other demands, not including the certificate of
deposit.
. The testimony being closed, the plaintiff prayed the court to
instruct the jury, 1. That the acceptance by the plaintiff of the
certificate of deposit for a precedent debt due him by Hicks or
Hicks & Arnold, was no payment or extinguishment of such
debt, unless there was an express agreement to accept it as such
payment; and to take the risk.of the solvency of the bank.
2. That the certificate of a bank due at a future day, like the
note of any third person, if given for a preexisting debt, is not
payment and discharge thereof, unless specially agreed to be so
taken; and if- a receipt in full be given, it is still a question of
fact for the jury to decide whether there was such an agreement
or not; and that unless the certificate be afterwards paid by the
bank, it is primdfacie no satisfaction of the prexisting debt.
3. That if the jury believe, fr6m the evidence, that' Hicks &
Arnold or Hicks, after the maturity of the certificate, admitted
their liabilityto make it good, such admission is evidence that
the certificate was not taken as payment absolutely, but as conditional payment only, and that they had notice of all the facts
necessary to hold them responsible.
The court charged the jury that," an agent is bound to act in
accordance with his authority, to make his acts binding on his
principal. If the agent exceeds his authority, his principal is
not bound by his act, so exceeding his authority, unless the
principal afterwards ratify his acts. If a principal, after he is
ififormed what his agent has done, ratify his acts, he is bound
by the acts of his agents, although the agent may not have had
any authority to do thL act'so ratified at the time it was done.
An act done as an agent by one having no authority, it is obligatdry on his principal; if, in a reasonable time after, he is fully

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

Downey v. Hicks.

informed of what has been done, he does not object thereto, he
is presumed to ratify the dcts, and is bound thereby."
.That, "if Downey received the certificate', conditioned that he
would receive the money in discharge of the debt, if the bank
sBhoi'dd pay it, then Downey was bound to use reasonable diligence to collect the money due on the certificate. Reasonable
diligence consists in such exertions as a prudent man would
use in his own case in the collection of the certificate; and if
Downey failed to use such diligence to collect the money, the
defendants are not liable, and the jury should find for the defendant."
In ordinary transactions, a check on a specie-paying bank,
payable on demand, is payment. And, if the holder of the
check present it to the bank, and direct the amount to be A'l.aced
to his credit as a deposit, and the bank should fail, the loss
would be the depositor's. The deposit was at his option and
for his benefit. But the transaction of Downey and Hicks was
not of this character. Doctor Hicks, who acted for Downey, was
not authorized to make the arrangement; -he acted, in his own
language, "without authority, as the friend of the plaintiff."
There was no money, in fact, deposited in the bank. It was indebted to J. T. Hicks and Arnold, who were in partnership, in a
large sum; and, to pay lowney, Hicks drew a check for the
amount, which was charged to his account in bank, and a certificate of deposit for the same amount was given to Downey.
This arangement was strongly recommended by the debtor,
Hicks, to his brother, the friend of Downey. Eight per cent.
vas allowed on the certificate of deposit, which was payable in
ten months.
A note of the debtor himself, or of a-third party, is never considered as a payment of a precedent debt, unless there be a
special agreement to that effect. Had Downey received the certificate of deposit himself, it could not have been considered a
payment unless it. was so agreed. The transaction, in fact, was
only a dealing with credits. No money was drawn from the
bank, or deposited in it. By the certificate, the credit 6f the
bank was given in addition to the credit of the original debtor.
Such a transaction, without a special agreement to receive the
certificate in payment, would make it a collateral security .only.
A receipt for the amount, executed at the time, would not affect
the question. In this view, it was error in the court not to give
the first and second instructions asked by the plaintiff, uil2ess
the charge given substantially embraced the points stated.
In the charge given it is nowhere stated that, t6 nmake the
certificate of deposit a payment, there must be an agreement to
that effect. The jury are informed that, where an agent exceeds

250

SUPREME- COURT.
Downey v. Hicks.

his authority, or 'acts without authority, the principal is not
bound, unless he ratify such. acts. But the jury are not informed what amounts- to a ratification. They are told, where
acts are done, c' which the principal is informed if he does "not
in a reasonable .time object thereto, he is presumed to ratify the
acts, and is bound tlereby.
This, in all probability, misled the jury. Doctor Hicks, in
receiving the certificate of deposit,. did not pretend that he was
authorized to receive it - much less that he was authorized to
receive it as payment. The receipt of -he certificate, under
such circumstunces, by Downey, without any express agreement
on the subject, could not operate as payment. In this respect,
therefore, unless such an agreement was shown and connected
with this part of the charge, it was erroneous.
The jury were instructed that, if the certificate was received
on condition the deposit, if paid by the bank, should be appli -d
as payment, Downey was bound to use reasonable diligence.
But the jury were not informed what that dnd of diligence was,
except, "that it consisted in such exertions as a prudent man
would use in his own case in the collecticn of the certificate."
Where a note is received as collateral security, and this certificate of deposit is only the obligation of the bank, and does not,
in principle, in this respect, differ from a note, the holder is not
bound to active diligence. If the note have an indorser, and it
matures, in hii hands, he may be bound to take such steps as
-haU.charge the indorser as a bank is bound, where a note is
sent to it for collection. But he is not bound to bring suit. He
is only chargeable with a negligence, which shall operate to the
injury of the owner of the paper.
As, in less than three months from the date of the certificate
of deposit by the showing of the defendant, the post-notes of
the'bank answered him no valuable purpose in satisfying the
demra nds against him, there is no ground to allege that the defen ant suffered by any want of diligence in the plaintiff. The
ba. k was insolvent, if not when the certificate was given, before it became due. The above instruction was erroneous.
We think the court erred, also, in refusing to give the third
instruction, as prayed by the plaintiff. If the evidence showed,
after the maturity of the certificate, that Hicks & Arnold, or
Hicks, admitted their liability to make it good, the- jury should
have been told by the couart, that if they believed such an admission was made, it conduced to prove that the certificate was not
taken in payment.
For the above reasons, the judgment of the Circuit C6urt is
reversed, and the cause is remanded for further proceedings.
MIr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.

DECEMBER T'ERM, 1852.

251

Dowvney v. Hicks.
Mr. Justice DANIEL, (Mr. Justice GRIER concurring.)
It is my opinion, that the judgment of the Circuit Court,, in
thi case, should be affirmed, upon the questions raised in the
argument, 1st, upon the sufficiency of the finding by the jury,
as being responsive'to all. the issues, or otherwise;- 2dly, as to
the admissibility in evidence of the release to Arnold, in the
absence of the subscribing -witness to that release, there is an
entire concurrence amongst the Judges. Bat with the views
announced as those of the court with respect to the authqrity
and the! acts of Doctor Hicks, as the agent of Downey, and as
to the consequences deducible from those acts, I am constrained
to disagree.
And here I must remark, that, according to my apprehension
of the evidence upon the record, as to the authority vested in
Doctor Hicks, as agent, and his acts under that authority, and
with respect to the conduct of Downey, as principal, in confirmation of thdse acts,- that evidence has not been accurately
stated. It is said by the court, that Doctor Hicks did not act as
the agent, but merely as the friend of Downey. There seems
to be some difficulty, and even confusion, in fhis attempt to discriminate between these two charactersg. True it is, that the
agent, however confided in, does not always prove the best friend
of his principal; but it is equally true, that the principal would
rarely select, as his agent, one whom he regarded in'any other
light than that of a friend. But the record, according to my apprehension of the evidence, discloses the most ample and explicit
authority to Doctor Hicks, to settle the claims of Downey upon
the firm of Hicks & Arnold, and' exhibits instructions equally
clear to Doctor Hicks, to transmit to Downey the amount which
this agent, upon the settlement made by him, should ascertain
to be owing from Hicks & Arnold to Downey. The record
discloses these further facts: 1. The settlement made by Doctor
Hicks with Hicks & Arnold; 2. The drawing of a check by
these persons in favor of Doctor Hicks, the agent, upon the bank
at Natchez, for the amount ascertained to be du& to Downey;
3. The presentation of that check by the agent, at the bank at
Natchez; 4. The proffer by the bank, of payment in specie of the
amount of the check; and the express agreement of the agent'
with the bank, to commute that check and proffer of inmediate
payment in money for a certificate of deposit, or post-note, payable at a deferred period, bearing an interest of 8 per centum.
So much, then, for the acts of the agent in virtue of the
authority originally vested in him; and if there could .arise a'
doubt "as to their validity, that doubt could apply only to the
transmutation of the demand for the money into a certifleate
of deposit, or deferred payment, bearing interest. But, supposing

252

SUPREME1 COURT.
Downey v. Hicks.

there had been room for doubt in this respect, on the ground
that the agent had transcended his power, that doubt must be
entirely dispelled when the conduct of the principal is considered.
Upon being informed, by the agent, of the measure he had taken,
and upon having the certificate transmitted to him, the principal said, in reply, that although he would have preferred a payment down in money, yet as the agent had acted for himself as
he had done for his principal, he could not find fault with the
ariangement. He expressed no apprehensions as to the prudence
or safety of the arpangement, but ratified it expressly; and in
fact the proof is clear, that at the time, and for some months
after, the'bank was paying specie ; and that its certificates, like
the one in question, commanded a premium in the market. In
this mode was the entire proceedings of the agent explicitly
ratified.
If this apprehension of the testimony l e correct, then it 'is
difficult to conceive how the jury cohld have been misled by
the instructions which were given them by the court. Indeed
this court,.so far as those instructions covered the relation of
principal and agent, have not questioned the correctness of those
instructions. But it is said, that the court erred in the opinion
it expressed upon the subject of the diligence requisite in the
application for payment of the certificate of deposit. Let it be
conceded that this opinion of the court upon the subject of reasonable diligence was not the law; still it should no affect the
decision in this case, because that opinion had no connection
.with the true ctlaracter of the case, which depended upon a
phase of the evidence to which that instruction had no application, and. could not influende. If the agent of Downey was
authorized to settle, and had settled with the debtors of Downey,
and the'latter had accepted from Dis debtors what he acknowledged was payment, at this point, the transaction closed; and
unless the parties making-payment could ba affected by showing
fraud or bad faith, the whole matter was terminated by the
agreement between the parties. Downey had an indisputable
right to receive epayment in any medium he might choose, and
it is not in the power of a court to control his first choice and
give him the right to a second, or to visit, upon those who hive
applied their means to his satisfaction, and by so doing prevented them being available to themselves to any other possible
purpose, the mischiefs resulting from his choice.
But it is said by the court, that Hic's & Arnold, subsequently to the failure of the bank, admitted their liability to
Downey for,this demand. Here, again, I conceive that the evidence in this cause has been greatly misapprehended, and that
a correct understanding of the testimony will show that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

253

:De Lane e. al. v. Moore et al.

admission which has been brought to bear upon this transaction,
related to a posterior and wholly different liability of the same
parties - to a transaction in which Hicks and Arnold had deposited a certificate of deposit of this bank as collateral security
for a debt from Arnold, and that security turning out not to be
available, they held themselves bound to satisfy the demand it
was designed to secure. This subsequent transaction had no
connection whatever with that in which the check in question
was given, and on which payment idi money was proffered, but
for which the certificate of deposit was, by express agreement
of the agent, ratified by his principal, taken in full satisfaction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to award a venire facias-de wovo.

H. DE LANE, JOHN l. CHILES, IMARTHA C. CHILES, JOHN
E. LYKEs, AND GRACE A. LYKES, APPELLANTS, V. ANDREW B.

PHILIP

MOORE, AND JAMiSS L.
REE, DpCEASED.

GOREE, ExEcUTORS OF JAMES L. GO-

Where an antenuptial contract was alleged to have been made, and the affidavits of
the parties claiming under it alleged that they never possessed or saw it; that they
had made diligent inquiry for it, but were unable to learn its present existence or
place of existence; that inquiry had been made of the guardian of one of the
children, who said that he had never been in possession of it, and did not know
where it was; that inquiry had been made at the recording offices in vain, and that
the affiants believed it to be lost; secondary proof of its contents ought to have
been admitted.
Whether recorded or not, it was binding upon the parties. If recorded within the
time prescribed by statute, or if reacknowledged and recorded afterwards, notice
would thereby have been given to all persons of its effect.
If it was regularly recorded in one State, and the property upon which it acted was
removed to another State, the protection of the contract would follow the property
into the State into which it was removed.
Put whcej' no suit was brought until eight or nine years after the death of the husband and then the one which was brought was dismissed for want of prosecution;
another suit against the executors who had divided the property, comes too late.

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama.
VOL. XIV.

22

