DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

253

:De Lane e. al. v. Moore et al.

admission which has been brought to bear upon this transaction,
related to a posterior and wholly different liability of the same
parties - to a transaction in which Hicks and Arnold had deposited a certificate of deposit of this bank as collateral security
for a debt from Arnold, and that security turning out not to be
available, they held themselves bound to satisfy the demand it
was designed to secure. This subsequent transaction had no
connection whatever with that in which the check in question
was given, and on which payment idi money was proffered, but
for which the certificate of deposit was, by express agreement
of the agent, ratified by his principal, taken in full satisfaction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to award a venire facias-de wovo.

H. DE LANE, JOHN l. CHILES, IMARTHA C. CHILES, JOHN
E. LYKEs, AND GRACE A. LYKES, APPELLANTS, V. ANDREW B.

PHILIP

MOORE, AND JAMiSS L.
REE, DpCEASED.

GOREE, ExEcUTORS OF JAMES L. GO-

Where an antenuptial contract was alleged to have been made, and the affidavits of
the parties claiming under it alleged that they never possessed or saw it; that they
had made diligent inquiry for it, but were unable to learn its present existence or
place of existence; that inquiry had been made of the guardian of one of the
children, who said that he had never been in possession of it, and did not know
where it was; that inquiry had been made at the recording offices in vain, and that
the affiants believed it to be lost; secondary proof of its contents ought to have
been admitted.
Whether recorded or not, it was binding upon the parties. If recorded within the
time prescribed by statute, or if reacknowledged and recorded afterwards, notice
would thereby have been given to all persons of its effect.
If it was regularly recorded in one State, and the property upon which it acted was
removed to another State, the protection of the contract would follow the property
into the State into which it was removed.
Put whcej' no suit was brought until eight or nine years after the death of the husband and then the one which was brought was dismissed for want of prosecution;
another suit against the executors who had divided the property, comes too late.

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama.
VOL. XIV.

22

SUPREME COURT.
De Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. ohnson and Mr. Butler, for the appellants, and 2r.Bradley and Mr. Davidge, f:r the appellees.
The counsel for the appellants, after stating the case, pro,eeded:
It appears, from the record, tat the defendants objected to the
reading of the papers of the marriage settlement, because the
affidavits of. the complainants did not make out such a case of
the loss or destruction as would dispense with the production of
the original. The objection was sustained by the presiding
Judge. By the ruling of the Judge, the complainants' bill was
ordered to be'dismissed.
It is submitted, that the ruling of the Judge was erroneous;
and if it should be sustained here, the complainants must fail
in any attempt to recover their rights, because they cannot be
allowed to introduce the only evidence on wuhich they rest.
The evidence off&red by the complainants, and rejected by the
court, was both competent and sufficient to satisfy a Judge,
when discretion must, on such questions, regulate his judgment;
and especially so in the chancery jurisdicticn of the court, where
it is usual to receive With a liberal latitude, sub 'modo at least,
all evidence that can lead to a competen judgment on the
rights of the parties. The bill was filed by those who were
seeking their rights by discovery, and against the acts of those
who had a temptation to destroy the evidence against them. But
it is submitted, that the question has been authoritatively ruled
by the court; and, according to the adjudged cases on the same
subject in Alabama, where this case was tried, the evidence rejected should have been admitted. Tayloe v. Riggs, I Pet.
591, 596; S. C. 9 Wharton, 483; Winn v. Patterson, 9 Pet.
663, 676; S. C. 5 Pet. 230, 240, -242; Sturdevant v. Gaines, 5
Ala. 435; Slerge v. Clapton, 6 Ala. 589.
If the evidence rejected by the Judge, as to the reading of the
marriage settlement, should have been received, as we think it
should, then it may become necessary to bring in review the
questions made by the defendants' answer.
WNas the marriage settlement duly and legally recorded in
South Carolina. By the laws of South Carolina (see act of
1786 and 1823) marriage settlements, according to the first act,
are required to be recorded in the office of the Secretary of
State, and by the second act, also, in the office of Register of
Mesne Conveyances, within three months after their execution,
otherwise they will be regarded as void at law. The marriage
settlment, in this case, was executed on the 20th 111ay, and if

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

255

Do Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

recorded before the 20th of August, would have been duly recorded, according to the requirements of the act of 1786. It
appears from Guiguard's official certificate, that the paper was
recorded in the Register of Alesne Conveyances, on the 31st
day of July, 1816, the day on which it was proved by Young,
one of the witnesses to it.
The certificate of Arthar, the deputy Secretary of State, is
not definite as to the time when the paper was recorded in the
office of the Secretary of State. There is no doubt, however,.
that it had been first recorded in that office, as such should have
been done, according to the act of 1786, (which is the only act
affecting this case.) We think such must be the conclusion of
the court, as scarcely any other fair inference could be drawn
from the premises. If such should be the holding of the court,
a second proposition arises, was it necessary that it should have
been recorded in Alabama?
According to the tenor of the decisions of this court, it was
not necessary that there should be such a recording to protect
the rights of the complainants against the claims of a subsequent purchaser.
"A marriage settlement or deed, in favor of the wife, duly executed md recorded in Virginia, will be good against the creditors in the District of Columbia, although they may have had
no express notice. Bank v. Lee, 13 Peters, 119, 120. Such
has been the current of decisions in South Carolina and Alabama?
But the complainants have a right, fr-om the proof in the record, to take refuge in the equity of their rights.
Accordin.g to the evidence -f, W. R. Hamilton, Goree, the
testator of defendants, who seems to have been a shopkeeper,
purchased the slave in question, with express notice of complainants' title, by the marriage settlement of their mother with
Yancey. The testimony of Hamilton was duly taken; for, if
defectively taken in the first instance, the defendants had an opportunity, and were required, to retake it, if they chose, by an
express agreement of the parties.
Such being their condition - that is, purchasers with express
notice-lhe, Goree, took the property subject to the acknowledged claims of the complainants, and having taken under
their title, he should not be allowed to claim against it.
The doctrine of notice is well established. He who acquires
a legal title, having notice of the prior equity of another, becomes a trustee for that other to the extent of his equity. 1
Cranch, 100.
If a man will purchase, with notice of another's right, giving
a consideration will not avail him. 2 Bridgman's Digest, Vendors and Purchasers, IX. 691.

SUPREME COURT.
De Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

With respect to the operation of the statute of limitations
upon cases of trust in equity, the distinction is, if the trust be
constituted by act of the parties, the possession of the trustee is
the possession of the cestui que trust, and no length of such possession will bar; b6ut if a party is constituted a trustee by the
decree of a court of equity founded on fraud, or the like, his
possession is adverse, and the statute of limitations will run
from the time that the circumstances of the fraud were dis'Bridgman's Digest, 252.
covered.
In the case of Miller v. Kershaw,. mariage settlement was
held void at law; in equity, however, the party claiming under
the settlement, would be protected where the purchaser had
actual notice of the settlement. Bayley's Equity, 481.
If the foregoing propositions can be suitained, another question arises, .and that is, can the defendants claim to be protected
by the statute of limitations? The complainants 'allege, in their
bill, that they were minors at the death of their mother, and
could not assert their rights, under the marriage settlement, as
,remaindermen, after the death of Yancey, their step-father.
They aver, furthermore, that they were ignorant as to the time
of Yancey's death, from their distant and separated situations.
It is also stated expressly in their bill, (and it is a bill of discovery,) that they were not informed as to the time when a
fraud had been committed upon their rights, to wit, when
Yancey sold, and Goree purchased, with a full disclosure and
knowledge of their title. This reduces the parties to the relation of trustee and cestui que trust, and exempts the complainant from the operation of the statute of limitations.
Purchaser from mortgagor, with notice, cannot claim by possession against a mortgage. Thayer. v. Craner, 1 McCord,
395.
Court of Equity, bound by statute, upon legal title and demands, except in cases which are excepted upon purely equitable principles, such as trust, fraud, &c. 'Van Rhyn v. Vincent,
1 McCord, 314.
In cases of fraud, it runs from the time the fraud has been
discovered. Id. 4 Dess. Rep. 480.
If one intrudes upon the rights of an infant, and takes the
profits' he will-be treated as guardian. His character is fiduciary; the statute of limitations is inapplicable; and lapse of
time will not bar account. Goodhue v. Barnwell, Rice, Equity,
239.
The ruling of the Judge below was evidently in reference to
a single question, in which he clegrly was in error. But, independently of his decision, it may become -the plaintiffs to satisfy
this court that, if lie had all these questions before him, the de-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

257

De Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

fendants, in any point of view, would have been entitled to a
decree in their favor.
Therefore, it becomes the complainants to show that they
were entitled to a decree in their favor, upon the entire merits
of their case.
The counsel for the appellees made the following points:
First point omitted.
II. The court was right in rejecting the copy of the marriage contract.
1. The affidavits of the complainants were insufficient to
prove the loss of the original, -vhich they had never seen, and
which had never been seen by any witness in the cause.
The foundation that is the existence of an original, was not
laid, unless it is shown by the copy.
This distinguishes it from the case of Winn v. Patterson,
(9 Pet. 66.3,) and all the other cases; 5 Pet. 233, et al.
2. If this foundation was laid, they do not show a search for
the original such as is required by the court.
They state where they have searched; but Yancey removed
from South Carolina to Alabama, carrying the personal property with him. His right, according to the theory of complainants, depended upon this agreement. He would have
carried it with him. It would have been among his papers.
There was no search there. See the cases cited on appellant's
brief.
3. The copy from the records in 8outh Carolina, cannot rest
on the principle of an ancient deed. The possession and acts
of Yancey, as represented by complainants, were inconsistent
with any limitation on his title, and therefore with this deed.
Nor does the rule apply to copies, unless some other proof of
the emstence of the deed is given. There must be proof
alminde that there was an original. Winn v. Patterson, 9 Pet.
675-6, and the cases cited by appellant.
4. The affidavit of Lykes and wife was properly rejected by
the court; and, in order to lay the foundation for the secondary
proof, all the complainants should have purged themselves from
any concealment or laches.
III. The copies could only be admitted on the ground of
their having been duly and lawfully recorded in South Carolina.
1. The title is set up in a married woman residing in Alabama, in personal property, openly under the control of her
husband, which title depends on a marriage contract made in
South Carolina. The case of Le6 v. The Bank of the United
States, (13 Pet.) shows that such a title may be supported, not22 *

258

SUPREME COUP-T.
De Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

withstanding there is no record in Alabama, nor any badge or
token to distinguish it from the general prop arty of the husband.
If the action had been in the State Court, the law of South
Carolina must have been proved, as any otLer fact in the cause.
But this court has said, in Leland v. Wilkinson, (6 Pet.) and Owings v. Hull, (9 Pet.) that the general laws cf the several States
will be judicially noticed in the courts of the United States.
We are, then, to inquire what the law of South Carolina was
in 1816 ? It required the record to be made within three
months after the date of the deed, and after the execution had
been proved according to law, in the office of the Secretary of
State only.
This disposes of the copy from the Richland district.
2. No statute of South Carolina is produced, showing how
the deed was to be proved. But, admitting that this deed
was executed and proved according to law. the proof of the
recording does not sustain the claim.
The law of South Carolina will be found ia James's Dig. 2756; 2 Brev. Dig. 45-6; 6 Stat. at Large, App. 636-7; and 5
Stat. at Large, 203.
That law required the record to be madewithin three months,
or the deed was void.
One of these copies appears to have been recorded on the
31st of July, 1816, in the Richland office; the other, between
the 30th of July and the 14th of November, in the Secretary's
office. The presumption, then, is, that th8 former was first
recorded; for it could hardly be that it was recorded in this last
office on the 30th, and in the former on the 31st.
Again; the law authorizing the record in the Register's office,
was not passed until 1823. How, then, came this deed to be
recorded there seven years in anticipation of such.a law? Is
it not evident that the parties placed it there first, by mistake,
and, discovering their error, afterwards had it placed in the
Secretary's office? Then, when was it put there? They must
show it was within three months after its date. They have
failed to do so.
So that whether the affidavits were, or not, sufficent to admit
the secondary proof, the secondary proof itself is wholly insufficient, by reason of the failure of complainants to show the
record under the statute.
IV. The defendants have pleaded the statute of limitations
of six years.
It would be a complete bar, in any action at law. Aik. Dig.
tit. Limitation, p. 270, 271.
The disabilities are coverture, infancy, von compos, and abrsence of defendant beyond seas.

DECEMBER TERM-, 1852.

259

De Iiane et al. v. Moore et al.

In this case, the slave was sold in 1821 ; the coverture terni.
nated in 1823; the husband survived to 1834, with the right of
possession and enjoyment only. In 1834, complainants' right
was complete, if they had any. The youngest must have been
of full age in, or before, the year 1837. They are all children
of the widow DeLane, before her marriage with Yancey, in
1816. A suit in Equity against these defendants was pending
in 1843, for this very property, and dismissed for want of prosecution. It was as if it had never existed. In 1847, when this
suit began, more than twice the period of limitation had elapsed
since the right, if any, accrued.
Courts of Equity will not encourage such demands. There
must be some diligence, some activity, some movement, by the
party. Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Pet. 405; McKnight v. Taylor, 1
How. 161.
V. Such activity was peculiarly necessary in this case. It is
a suit against executors, bound to close their office with reasonable despatch. A suit pending against them in 1843, had been
dismissed. They had gone on to settle their trust; the debts
had been paid, and the assets distributed, when this suit was
brought, and courts of equity will protect them. The claim
should have been presented within eighteen months. Aik. Dig.;
Clay's Dig. 195, § 17.
VI. Finally, the presumptions of fact are all against the claim
set.up.
The marriage contract authorizes a sale by the husband, with
the consent of the wife. They are residing together, apparently
in not a very prosperous condition, and both purchase, for their
own support and the support of their family, (of these very
complainants,) the goods of the defendants' testator. They are
unable to pay for them, and one or both of them sell the slave
to him for these very things. Blonesty and fair dealing required
that the wife should out of her means aid the husband in supporting the children of her prior marriage, and this court will
presume that she did what common honesty iequired of her,
and that she did unite in the sale. At all events, it was a sate
and delivery of possession made in her lifetime for her benefit,
and this court could compel her to ratify it now if she had not
done so before.
This contract was made in South Carolina in 1816; the parties removed to Alabama before 1820. It is to be interpreted
by the laws then in force in South Carolina.
In 1811, (Ewing v. Smith, 3 Dess. 417, 455, 451, 462, 463,)
the Court of Appeals of that State declared the common law
of England was not applicable to cases of married women
having separate estates in that State. This was followed by
Carter v. Eveleigh, 4 Dess. 19, and James v. Maysant, lb. 591.

SUPREME

COUL;T.

De Lane et al. v. Moore

3t

al.

From these cases it appears - 1st. Th'at a married woman,
having a separate esfate, can only change, encumber, or dispose
of it, strictly according to the provisions of the settlement. 2d.
That an estate limited to the joint use of husband and wife
during coverture, with power to her to dispose of it by deed or
will, and to go to her sole and absolute use in case of her surviving him, is a separate estate. 3d. The separate estate will
be liable for debts contracted for the purposes for which it was
created.
In this case the conditions necessary to raise a separate estate
to her out of the joint estate, do not exist.
1. There is no power of disposition given to her, but it is
given to the husbard only with her consent.
2. There is no sole and absolute use reserved to her; but the
right of survivorship, without any power of disposal, is mutua.
3. The debt in this case was contracted for the purposes of
the trust, and on the credit of the trust estate.
The cases of Cooke v. Kennedy and Smith, (12 Ala. 42) ;Bender v. Reynolds, (16 Ala. 446,) are directly in point, that such an
estate, with the property in the possessicn of the husband, is
subject to the husband's debts. See also Moss v. McCall, 12
Ala. 630.
Here acquiescence may be inferred. Square v. Dean, 4 Bro.
C. C. 326; Beresford v. Ar. Bis. Armagh, 13 Sim. 643.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of 'the court.
The appellants, inthe year 1847, Aled their bill in the court
aforesaid against the appellees, seeking of. them a discovery as
to certain slaves charged to have come to the possession of their
testator, aud also an account and a recovery of .the-value,
increase, hires, and profits of those slaves, and claiming by
name a negro woman named Linda or Linder, together with
her children.
The bill charges that in th6 year 1816,'rs. Ann Wood De
Ldne, a widow lady residing in the State of South Carolina,
aid possessed of valuable real estate, and of sundry slaves, being about to intermarry with one John Yancey, an antenuptial
contract was entered info and executed between these parties.
The stipuations in this contract, which is made an exhibit with
the bill, are to the following effect: That "all the estate of the
said. Ann, real and personal, should be and remain for the joint
use, support, and enjoyment of the said John and Ann
diring their joint lives, and to the survivor of them during
his or her life; that the same should be free from any debts,
dues, demands, or contracts of said Yancey, unless it shQuld be
under the following restrictions: That the said John Yancev

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

261

De Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

should not have the right to dispose of any portibn of the estate
or property, real or personal, unless the said Ann should consent
thereto. That the said John should have the right to dispose
of the property upon his obtaining such consent. That the said
Ann should bave the right of granting or withholding her consent without resorting to the aid of a court of equity, or to the
intervention of a trustee. That all transfers by the said John
of any portion of the property with the consent of the said Ann,
should be valid, whiether made for his separate use and benefit,
or for the joint use of himself and -wife; and that the said John
should not be compellable to settle any equivalent for property
so transferred, unless there should be a stipulation between the
parties to that effect. That all of the estate, real or personal,
which should remain uadisposed of during the joint lives of the
parties, should be for the use and benefit of the survivor; and
at his or her death should be equally divided amongst all the
children of the said Ann, both of this and of the former marriage. That none of the aforesaid estate, real or personal, should
be liable for any debts, judgments, or executions, that might be
in existence at the date of the contract, or at any time thereafter
against the said John, unless by mutual consent of the parties.
The bill further charges that the marriage having taken place
between the said Ann Wood De Lane and John Yancey, they
removed to the State of Alabama, where the said Ann having
died, the said Yancey, who survived her, sold to James L. Goree,
deceased, either during the lifetime or after the death of the
said Ana, but -without her consent, and in violation of the antenuptial agreement, several of the slaves mentioned in that agreement. That the said Philip H. De Lane, Martha Chiles, and
Grace Lykes, who are the children of Ann V.VDe Lane, by her
first marriage, and her only heirs, were, at the date of the sale
aforesaid by Yancey, infants of tender years.
The bill makes no persons defendants, and seeks relief against
none others, except the said Andrew B. Moore, and James L.
Goree, the executos of James L. Goree, deceased.
The respondents deny all personal knowledge of a purchase
of slaves by their testator, of Yancey, but state that they have
been informed, and believe, that the decedent did, in his lifetime,
and in the lifetime of Ann W. Yancey, obtain from the said
John Yancey, in the year 1822, a negro woman slave, named
Lindy, and her child Becky, in payment of a store account contracted with the decedent, whilst a merchant in Alabama, by
said John and Ann Yancey, for sugar, coffee, pork, butter,
clothing, and other necessaries for the support of the said John
aid Ann, and of the complainants, the children of the• said An,

SUPREME COURT.
De Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

and of the slaves conveyed in the marriage settlement. The
respondents deny that any slave mentioned in that agreement,
except the woman Lindy, ever came to the possession of their
testator, and after naming the offspring of Lindy, they aver that
this female slave and her offspring were never held by the respondents in any other right than as the executors of James L.
Goree, deceased; that long before the inrtitution of this suit,
the respondents, as such executors, had delivered over to thq
distributees of their testator, all the slaves held by them, had
settled their account as executors, and received a discharge, viz.,
on the 2d day of January, 1846. Having made the above
statements in answer to interrogatories put by the bill, the respondents propound these separate averments, and claim to be
allowed the benefit of them as if specially pleaded.
1. That their testator was a bond fide purchaser of the slave
Lindy for valuable consideration, 'without notice of the alleged
marriage settlement.
2. That more than six years had elapsed between the death
of Yancey, who survived his -wife, and the commencement of
this suit, and therefore the suit is barred by the statute of limitations.
3. That the said marriage settlement was made in the State
of South' Carolina, and was not recorded according to the laws
of that State, and is therefore void, both as to the respondents
and to their testator, who was a bond fide purchaser without
notice.
4. That if the man-iage settlement had been properly recorded,
or was otherwise valid the sale of the slave Lindy was made
with the assent of the said Ann Yancey.
5. That the respondents received the said slaves as the executors of the last will and testament of decedent, as a part of his
estate, and had, before this suit was commenced, disposed of
them according to the provisions of said will, by distribution
and delivery to the legatees of said estate, and that long before
the commencement of this suit, had made'a final settlement of'
said estate, and had been discharged from ,aid executorship.
To the answer of the respondents, the complainants filed a
general replication, and upon the pleadings and proofs in the
cause, the District Court, on the 7th of Deceitber, 1849, pronounced a decree, dismissing the bill of the complainants, with
costs. The correctness of that decree we will proceed to consider.
The first question which" presents itself, in the natural order
of investigation of the proceedings of the District Court, is that
which was raised upon the admissibility in evidence, of an
authenticated copy of the antenuptial contract, upon the suffi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

263-

De Lane et al. v. Aloore et al.

ciency of the cause assigned for the non-production of the
original. The cause so assigned, was this. The three children
of MArs. De Lane, with the husbands of the two daughters,
dep.ose that they never possessed, nor ever saw the original contract; that they have made diligent inquiry for it, but have been
unable to learn either its present existence, or place of existenceand believe that it has been lost or destroyed. And the son,
Philip De Lane, states farther, that he had made inquiry for it,
first of John Partridge, his guardian, who informed him that he
bad never been in possession of it, and did not know where it
was; that deponent had also made inquiry for it at the Office
of Mlesne Conveyances, and at the Office of the Secretary of
State, of South Carolina, but upon search and inquiry it could
not be found at either of those places; and he believes that: this
instrument was either destroyed by said Yancey, or by fire when
the court house in Ionroe county, in Alabama, was burned in
1833-that the subscribing witnesses to the agreeinent, he
believes, after diligent inquiry, are dead. That Yancey died in
1836, in Mississippi, utterly insolvent, and no person ever administered on his estate. In disregard of these affidavits,-the
District Court refused to consider the copy of the antenuptial
contract as legal or admissible in the absence of the original,
and in this refusal, we "think that court has erred. Upon the
most obvious principles of reason and justice, we think, that
the complainants could not have laid a stronger foundation for
the introduction of the secondary proof. The custody of the
original document, or the duty of preserving it, could in no view
be brought home to them. And its absence, therefore, over
which they could have had no control, and produced by no default
of theirs, should not have deprived th.m of the effect of that
document to avail for-whatever it might be worth. This view
of the question before us, is strengthened by the obvious considerations, that no suspicion justly attaches to the complainants
from the non-production of the original agreement, and that its
exhibition was calculated rather to corroborate, than to weaken
their claims. The instances in which secondary evidence is to
be admitted, and the requisites demanded by the courts to warrant its intrQducfion, are treated of in the elementary works on
evidence, as for instance, in 2 Saunders on Pleading and
Evidence, 833, et seq. But in a decision of this court, this
subject has been dealt with in a manner so strikingly apposite 'to the question now before us, as to warrant particular
notice thereof, as being in all respects, decisive of that question.
Wre allude to the depision of Tayloe v. Riggs, reported in 1
Peters, 591. That case presented by no means so strong a
a claim for the introduction of seconuary evidence as does the

264:

SUPREME COURT.
De Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

one now under consideration, for that was an application for
leave to substitute. parol for written evidence, and not for the
substitution of an authenticated copy of a written and recorded
document in lieu of the original. In Tayloe v. Riggs, the Chief
Justice lays down the law as follows:
" The rule of law is, that the best evidence.must be given of
which'the nature of the thing is capable; that is, that no evidence shall be received which presupposes greater evidence
behind in the party's possession or power. The withholding of
that better evidence raises a presumption, that if produced, it
might not operate in his favor.. For this reason, a party who is
in possession of an original paper, or who has it in his power, is
not permitted to give a copy in evider-ce, or to prove its contents. 'When, therefore, th6 plaintiff below offered to prove the
contents of the written contract on which this suit was instituted, the defendant might very properly reqnre the contract
itself. It was itself superior evidence of its contents to any
thbig depending on the memory of a witness. It was once in
his possession, and the presumption was that it was still so. It
was necessary to do away this presumption, or the secondary
evidence must be excluded. How is it to be done away? If
the loss or destruction of the paper can be proved by a disinterested witness, the difficulty is at once removed. But papers
of this description, generally remain in possession of the pa-ty
himself, and their loss can, in most instances, be known only to
jhimself. If his own affidavit cannot be received, the loss of a
written contract, the contents of which are well known to others,
or a copy of which can be proved, woul ' amount to a complete
loss of his rights, at least in a court of law. The objection to
receiving the affidavit of the party is, that no man can be a
witness in his own cause. This is undoubtedly a sound rule,
which ought never to be violated. But many collateral questions arise in the progress of a cause, to which the rule does no
apply. Questions which do not invblve the matter in controversy, but matters auxiliary to the trial, which facilitate the
preparation for it, often depend on the oath of the party.. An
aflidavit of the materiality of a witness, for the purpose of obtating a continuance, or a commission to take a deposition, or
an affidavit of his inability to attend, is usually made by the
party, and received without objection. So affidavits to suppolt
a motion for a new trial are often received. These cases, and
others of the same character, which might be adduced, show
that in many incidental questions that are addressed to the
court, and which do not affect the que.stion to be tried by the
jury, tWe affidavit of the party is received. The testimony
which establishes the loss of the paper is. addressed to the court,

DECEM-BER TERI, 1852.

265

De Lane et al. v. Aloore et al.

and does not relate to the contents of the paper. It is a fact
which may be important as letting the party in to prove the
jukice of the cause, but does not of itself prove any thing in
the cause. As this fact is generally known -only to the party
himself, there would seem to be a necessity for receiving his
affidavit in support of it."
The law, as thus clearly declared by this court in Tayl6e v.
Riggs,' is in strictest accordance with the rule prevailing in the
Supreme Court of the State within which the case before us
was decided. Thus, in 'the case of Sturdevant . Gaines, (reported in the 5th vol. Alabama Reports, p. 435,) that court thus
announces the rule by which they are governedwith respect to
the introduction of secondary evidence. "In the recent case of
Jones v. Scott, (2 Alabama R. 61,) it is stated, that no fixed rule
can be laid down as applicable to this class of cases; that, in
general, search must be made where the lost paper was last
known to be. These remarks are quite applicable to this case.
Search was made where the paper was last known to be only
three days before." Again: "We cannot say that half an hour's
search in a lawyer's office, was not sufficient to ascertain whether
the paper was not where it was left, nor, in the absence of any
fact indicating that it might be found elsewhere, can we - perceive that there was any necessity to search elsewhere for it.
If the admission that the paper, on further search where it
was last known to be, or elsewhere, might still be discovered,
would preclude the secondary evidence, it would :Snnihilate the
rule in all cases where the lost paper was not proved to be de*troved as well as lost, as otherwise there must always be a
possibility that it may be found." With regard to the position
insisted upon in -the answers, that the antenuptial contract was
void for the failure to record it within three months from its
date, in conformity with the law of South Carolina; that position, however maintainable it might be, so" far as the instrument
was designed to operate by mete legal or cohstrudive effect on
creditors and purchasers, becoming such before it was recorded,
or, in the event of its never being recorded, cannot be supported
to the extent, that by the failure to record it within the time prescribed by the statute, the deed would thereby be void to all intents
and purposes. Such a deed would, from its execution, be binding
at common law interpartes,4houghnever recorded; and if4 after
expiration of the time prescribed by statute, it should be
reacknowledged and then recorded, either upon such reacknowledgment, or upon proof of witnessesit would, fromthe period
of that reacknowledgment and admission to record, be restored
to its full effect of notice, which would, by construction, have
followed from its being recorded originally within the tirn! -preVOL. XIV.

23

SUPREME COURT.
De Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

scribed by law. These conclusions are sustained by numerous
decisions. "Werefer, in support of them, to the cases of Tarner v. Stip, 1 Wash. 319; Currie v. Donald, 2 Wash. 58; Eppes
v. Randolph, 2 Call, 125; Guerrant v. Anderson, 4 Ran. 208;
Roanes v. Ateher, 4 Leigh, 550; Woods v. ONwings & Smith, 1
Cranch, 239; Lessee of Sicard v. Davis, 6 Peters, 124.
The antenuptial agreement between Ann Wood De Lane and
John Yancey, is proved to have been executed on the 20th day
of May, 1816; if it was admitted to record at any time before
the 20th of August, in the same year, it operated as notice to
all creditors and purchasers beconing such subsequently to the
eecrqtion of that agreement; if it was not recorded until the
14th of November, in- the year 1816, it cculd by construction
operate as notice from the latter period only, but as between
the parties, and -with regard to subsequent creditors and purchasers with notice, it operated from the period of its execution.'
The sole purpose of recording the deed, is, that those who n ight
deal with the parties thereto, or with the sflbjects it comprised,
should have knowledge of the true condition of both, and if
such knowledge is presumed, nay, established by legal inference
from the fact that the deed has been recorded, a forliori,it must
be established by actual notice.
It has been made a ground of defence, in the answers in the
court below, and it has also been insisted upon in argument
here, that admitting the antenuptial contract to have been
recorded in the State of South Carolina, and, in consequence
thereof, to have been so operative as to affecat with notice creditors and purchasers within that State, yet, that upon the removal of the parties, carrying with them the property into
another State or jurisdiction, the influence of the contract, for
the .protection of the property, would be wholly.destroyed, and
the subject attempted to be secured, would be open to claims by
creditors or purchasers subsequently coming into existence.
The position here advanced is not now r.ssumed for the first
time in argument in this court. It has, upon a former occasion,
been pressed upon its attention, and has been looked into with
care, and unless it be the intention of the court to retrace the
course heretofore adopted, this may jbe now, as it formerly was,
called an -adjudged question. The case of the United States
Bank v. Lee et al., (reported in the 13th of .Peters, p. 107,) brought
directly up for the examination of this court, the effect of a
judgment and execution, obtained by a sui*sequent creditor in
the District of Columbia; upon property found within that district, but which had been' settled upon the wife of a debtor, by a
deed executed and recorded in Virginia, according to the laws
of that State, the husband and wife -being, at'the time of

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

267

Do Lane et al. v. Moore et al.

making the instrument, inhabitants of the State of Virginia.
The question was, by Ml. Justice Catron, who delivered the
opinion of the court, elaborately investigated, and the cases
from the different States, founded upon' their registry acts, carefully collected. The cases of Smith v. Bruce's Administrator,
from 2d of Harris & Johnson, and of Crenshaw v. Anthony,
from Martin & Yerger's Reports, p. 110, cited by the learned
Judge, fully sustain his reasoning upon the point. This court
come unhesitatingly and clearly to the conclusion, that the deed
of settlemefit, executed and recorded in favor of Mrs. Lee, in
conformity with the laws of' Virginia, protected her rights in the
subject settled, against the judgment of the subsequent creditor,
in the District of Columbia. We should not he disposed to
disturb the doctrine laid down in the case of the Bank of the
United States v. Lee, and in the decisions of the State courts
of Maryland and Tennessee, above mentioned, if the rights of
the parties turned upon the operation of the contract as constituting notice; or upon the proof of knowledge on the part of
Goree, the purchaser from Yancey, of the existence of the marriage contract. But we think that the rights of the parties to
this controversy should not be made to depend upon any such
incident as the existence of notice of the contract, either actual
or constructive.
It has been premised, -in the statement of the plevdings in
this case, that the only defendants in the court below, were the
executors of James L. Goree, deceased, called upon in their
representative character, and in no other. The marriage contract between Ann W. De Lane and John Yancey, was executed
in 1816. It is proved that Yancey died in 1833, or 1834. The
complainants are the children of Mrs. Yancey, by her first marriage; so that, at the time of the death of Yancey, the youngest
of those children, if born immediately preceding the second
marriage, could not have been younger than seventeen years;
the elder children were then probably nearly or fully at majoritr,
After the death of Yancey, the record discloses no claim on the
part of the complainants, nor any effort by them to recover the
property settled by the contract, earlier than 1842, eight or nine
years after Yancey's death; at which last period, it is said, there
was a suit pending in one of the State courts, against the testator
of the appellees, but which suit, after being revived against the
appellees, subsequently to the death of their testator, was, in the
year 1843, dismissed for the want of prosecution. The bill in this
suit was filed in January, 1847, at an interval of thirty-one
years after the execution of the marriage agreement, and of
fourteen years after the death of Yancey; from which last
event, the complainants had an undoubted and 'unobstructed

SUPREME .CQURT.

268

Trustees for Vincennes UniVersity vs State of Indiana.

power to seek their rights under that contract, whatever they
were.
If mere tardiness in asserting their pretensions, were all that
could be imputed to the appellants, this, of itself, would place
them in a position which could not commend them the countenance of courts of justice; but, this delay is by no means the
only or the least imputation, resting upon the course of the
appellants; -for we see that, after calling upon the appellees for
satisfacti6n of their demand, the appellants abandoned that
demand, proclaiming thereby to the representatives of Goree (if
indeed they were then in possession of the subject,) permission
to apply it in conformity with the will of their testator. The
appellants, it is not pretended, ever held or claimed the subject
in dispute, except in their representative capacity, and in trust
for the*creditors and legatees of their testator. In the interval
between the abandonment of their first z.nd the institution of
their second demand by the complainants, those executors have,
in fulfilment of their trust, handed over the subject to those for
whom they held it under the will; have accounted with the
authorities to whom they were responsib'-e, and have received
from those authorities a full acqaittance. Under these circumstances, to hold them liable to the demands pf the appellants,
would in effect be to render penal the regular discharge of their
duty.
This aspect of the cause we regard as fully warranting the
decree of the. District Court, dismissing the bill of the complainants - that decree is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript ot ne record
from the, District Court of the United States for the Mliddle
District of Alabama, and was argded by ecunsel. On considera
lion whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this cuurt. that the decree of the said 'District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

THE

BOARD

OF TRUSTEES

FOR THE VINCENNES.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,

v.

UNIVERISITY)

THE STATE OF INDILNA.

In.1804, Conress passed an act, (2 Stat. at Large, 27,) "making provision.for the

disposal of the public lands in the Indiana Territory, and for otter purposes," in

