SUPREME COURT.
Raymond v. Longswort!a.

duct, be regarded as having waived all right of inquiry into that
consideration, nay, rather as having repeatedly admitted its validity. To permit him, after so doing, to contradict all that he
has repeatedly and formally declared, would be to allow him to
falsify his solemn acts, to trifle with the settled rules of law and
the practice of the courts, and would lead to endless litigation.
We therefore order that the decree of the Circuit Court, dissolving the injunction and dismissing the bill in this case, be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed.
Ordr.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

WILLIAM F.

RAYMciND'S LEssEE V. NICHOLAS LONGWORTH.

ir the State of Ohio, it is not a sufficient description of taxable lands to say, "1Cooper,
James, Sacres, section 24, T. 4,.F. R. L" A deed made in consequence of aqale

for taxes under sueh a description is void. The courts of Ohio have so decided,
and this court adopts their decision.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
It was an ejectment, brought by Raymond, for the following
property, viz.: - All that certain tract of land in the western
part of, Cincinnati, commencing thirty feet north of Nicholas
Longwvoth's individual property, on the west side of Mill Creek
road, thence north, on the line of said road, five hundred feet,
and extending back, the same width, at right angles with said
road, four hundred feet.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. (Jhase, for the plaintiff in error, and
submitted, 'on printed argument, by Mr. Stanberry, fdr the
defendant in error.
-The bill of exceptions brought up other .points besides the
one upon which the judgment of this court rested; but it is not
necessary to notice them.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1852.

77

Raymond v. Longworth.

The following authorities were cited by Mr. Stanberry, in
support of the ruling of the Circuit Court.
The entire record having been admitted .in evidence, the defendant requested the court t6 instruct the jury, " that the description of the lot upon the .duplicate, as appears by the
abstract aforesaid," (Exhibit D,) "was not a pertinent description .of the lot, such as the statute required; and, therefore, that
the forfeiture to the State of Ohio was illegal and void, and
the subsequent sale, by the auditor of Hamilton county, to
Charles Phelps, was also void."
This instruction, as prayed by the defendant, was given by
the court; and the plaintiff excepted to this opinion of the
court also.
On the validity of this exception turns the principal question
in the case.
In behalf of the defendant, and in support of the ruling of
the court on this point, we deem it unnecessary to do more than
point out the utter want of certainty in the description of the
land, as contained upon the duplicate for taxation, and in the
advertisements for sale and returns, as exhibited throughout the
abstract from the record (Exhibit D, aforesaid); and, having
done so, refer the court to the uniform course of decision in
Ohio upon the subject, - invariably holding such descriptions
invalid, and forfeitures and pales under them void. Indeed, all
this is fully and sufficiently done in the circuit report of the present case. 4 McLean's Rep. 481; and in the case of lNiner's
Lessee v. McLean's Assignee, 4 McLean's Rep. 138.
We shall, therefore, only briefly state, that the descriptioh
of the lands, as shown by this record, upon the duplicate of taxes,
and in the various*returns and advertisements is thus throughout:

" Cooper, James, 5 acres, S. 24, T. 4, fr. R. 1, Cincinfiati.
Value $830. Amount due, $-."
This is to 'be read substantially thus : - " Five acres in section 24, fractional range 1, Cincinnati, valued at 830 dollars," &c.
The uncertainty of description, which renders the title void,
consists in its being wholly impossible to know in what part of
the section this particular lot of 'five acres is located. Entire
sections contain 640 acres, and these five acres, so far 6s appears, may as readily be in one part as another.
Such descriptions' have been holden void by the Supreme
Court of Ohio, i the following cases: Lessee of Maasie's
Heirs v. Long et al., 2 0. R. 287; Lessee of Treon v. Emerikk,
6 0. R. 391 ; Lessee of Laferty v. Byers, 5 0. R. 458. See also,
15 0. R. 134; 16 0. R. 24.
70

SUPREME

COURT.

Raymond v. Longworta.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Raymond sued Longworth, in the Circuit Court of Ohio, for
a piece of land, containing about five acres, lying in the western
part of the city of Cincinnati. The plaintiff claimed title, under a sale for State taxes, for the years 1837 and 1838, made
by the Auditor of Hamilton county, to Cha-les Phelps, for eighty
dollars.
The land had been listed for taxation, as the property of
James Cooper. The description on the tax-list, and in the subsequent return to the State Auditor, and in the advertisements
of the property for sale, was as follows --- " Cooper, James, 5
acres, sec. 24, T. 4, F. R. 1." The taxes rot having been paid,
and the land being advertised and offered for sale, by the Auditor
of Hamilton county, and no bid being made for it, it was returned to the General Auditor, aE forfeited to the State, 6nd he
again ordered the land to be advertised and sold. On the trial
below, it was insisted that the description of the premises was
vague on the. tax-list; and in the duplicate returned to the
State Auditor, and in the advertisements offering the land for
sale; that no forfeiture could be founded on such description,
nor a valid sale be made. And so the Circuit Court instucted
the jury, pronouncing the County Auditor's deed to Charles
Phelps.void. And the question presented is, whethbr the deserilition was sufficient.
The uncertainty consists in not setting :.orth in what part of
section 24 the five acres are situated.
Jt is settled, by the Supreme Court of Ohio, -hat the tax-list,
and the duplicate transmitted to the State Auditor, as well as
the advertisement, must describe the land so that its identity
may be ascertained from the description, either by the owner,
who wishes to pay the taxes before it is offered for sale, or that
he may redeem after a forfeiture is pronounced; or that the
public may be assured what is offered for sale
We refer to the description in the leading cases, wlere the
sales were pronounced void for want of sufficient certainty.
In Mathews v. Thompson, 5 Ohio, the description was, "100
acres, see. A township 7, range 4." In 5 Ohio, 458, " Haines,
John, No. entry, 4401; original quantity, 170 acres; quantity
tax~ed, 70 acres." In 6 Ohio, .399, "1Sixty acres, part of fhe
N. half of S. 13."' _[n 16 Ohio, 25, there had been listed 833
acres, as part of an original survey for- :[,000 acres, without
specifying in what part of the 1,000 acres thd 333 acres lay. In
each of the cases cited, it was held, that the description was
vague and the sale void. Here, the five acres are listed, and
advertised as part of section 24, and the description is equally'
vague as any of the foregoing. And, as the Staie courts have

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

79

Herman v. Phalenu

settled what certainty is required, it is our duty to follow their
decisions on the State laws, regulating proceedings in cases of
tax-sales. We accordingly order the judgment of the Circuit
Court to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

DAVID

B.

HERMAN,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROr, V. JAMES PHALEN;
SAME V. SAME.

The ease of League v. DeYonng and Brown, (11 Howard, 185,) considered and again
established.
THESE: two cases were brought up, by writ of error, from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, and were argued together by 11Mr. Allen and MTlr.
Ovid F. olinson for the defendant in error. No counsel appeared for the plaintiff in error.
The points in the case were argued in the case of League v.
DeYoung, 11 Howard, 188, to which the reporter refers.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These two cases have been argued together snd depend upon
the same principles. They were decided in tue Circuit .Court,
before the opinion of this court was pronounced in the case of
League v. DeYoung dnd Brown, reported in 11 Howard, 185. In
that case, all of the questions which arise in the cases before us
were fully considered and decided; and that decision is adverse
to the doctrines now contended for by the defei dant in error.
Upon reviewing the olinion in League v. DeYoung and Brown,
We see no reason for changing it in any respect; and these two
cases must therefore be reversed, and a mandate issued to the
Circuit Court, directing the judgment in ea.ch of them to be
reversed, and the judgment entered for the plaintiff in error.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

