SUPREME COURT.

464

Nutt v. Minor.

WILLIAM&

D.

CEASED,

NUTT,

EXECUTOR OF ALEXANDER

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. PHILIP

HUNTER, DE-

H. MINoR.

Where the marshal of the District of Columbia engaged the services of a clerk for
a stipulated sum per annum, and the service continued without any new agreement,
and the jury were instructed that they might imply a new agreement to pay the
clerk at a different rate, this instruction was erroneous. There was nothing in, the

evidence from which the jury could imply such new agreement.

Tais case was brought up, by -writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by lir. Bradley and 31r. D)avis, for the plaintiff in error, and by M/!r. Lawrence, with whom was Ir. Carlisle,
for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Alexander Hunter vas appointed marshal of the District of
Columbia in 1834, and continaed to fill that office by reappointments, until June, 1848, at which time he died. Shortly after
he entered on the duties of his office, in 1834, he appointed
Daniel'Minor his deputy for the county of Alexandria, where a
separate court was held and jurisdiction exercised; and for that
county Daniel Minor was practically marshal.
Philip A. Minor, the plaintiff below, was the brother of Daniel
Minor, who,.being desirous to obtairr the office of.clerk to the
marshal for Philip H., applied to Hunter for this purpose, and
advised him to employ Philip H. as his clerk, and Hunter agreed
to do so; Daniel and Philip came up from Alexandria to Washington, and, in the marshal's room, a conversation took place between Philip H. Minor, Hunter the marshal, and Daniel Minor
the deputy. Hunter proposdd to give, as salary for the service,
two hundred dollars per annum, and that Daniel Minor as deputy for Alexandria county, should give one hundred dollars,
making the salary three hundred dollars. Daniel Minor insisted
that the salary should be larger; Hunter replied, that he was
just in office and did not know what *the profits would be, nor
what the value of the duties to be dischargel by the clerk would
be; and that he did not feel justified in giving a larger salary.
Daniel Minor then offered, that if Hunter'vould pay tvo hundred and fifty dollars, he would pay one hundred and fifty
towards the salary, which was agreed to by Hunter and Daniel
Minor on the one part, and by Philip H. Minor on the other.

Daniel Minor, who was the principal witness, testified to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

465

Nutt v. Minor.

foregoing facts for the plaintiff below, on thie trial; and further
deposed, that he took"his brother Philip aside and conversed with
him out of the hearing of Hunter, and advised him to take the
offer for a year, small"as it was;.and accordingly Philip H. assented ; that nothing was said about a continuance of the agreement after the first year.
Daniel Minor further deposed, that he told his brother Philip,
in the foregoing conversation, "that the substance of the matter
was an agreement confined to one year, and that the compensation would be afterwards made adequate to the services, and
the value of the office; and that this was urged upon Philip as
an inducement to agree to the engagement for the year; but
that Hunter did not authorize the witness Daniel Minor, to
promise Philip H. that he would be engaged after the first year
at a higher compensation."
Daniel Minor also deposed, that he'siggested to Hunter during the first year's service, that the salary of Philip H. should
be increased, but Hunter declined doing so. The agreement
was precise: Hunter was to pay 250 dollars, andDaniel Mindr
150 dollars,,, as clerk hire, per annum; nor was the contract
limited to one year, so far as Hunter entered info it; it was general, at the rate stipulated, for any length of time that Hunte r
might remain in office, or that Philip H. linor might see proper
to serve, and Hunter and Daniel Minor see proper to retain him
as clerk. It is most obvious that the court and jury held Hunter
bound by'what Daniel Minor promised in the absence of Hunter, apd without his knowledge, and co'ntrary to his consent.
There is an entire absence of proof, that Hunter ever assented,
by word or act, to raise the salary of Philip H. Minor as clerk;
nor does it appear that the latter at any time applied to Hunter
in person, and insisted, or even suggested that his salary should
be increased, until February, 1847, when the letter offered in
evidence was written; on the contrary; he received the salary of
400 dollars, as at first stipulated, for fourteen years, regularly crediting himself V'ith it on the marshal's books, each year.
If we reject Daniel Minor's evidence as incompetent to bind
Hunter, so far as he used persuasions in Hunter's absence to induce Philip H. Minor to hope, and probably believe, that Hunter
would raise his salary, then the case, as proved by the plaintiff
below, rests alone on the special agreement made in 1834; and
we think it must be stipped of all these conversations between
Daniel Minor and his brother, to which Hunter never assented.
Nutt was sued as Hunter's executor, for work and labor, care
and diligence, done and performed by Minor in and about the
business of Hunter in his lifetime, and at his special instance
and request. And also for sundry matters and things properly

466

SU.rREME COURT.
Nutt v. Minor.

chargeable in an account therewith filed ; and on these allegations of a quantum meruit, Hunter's estate was charged for 400
dollars per annum, in addition to the 400 dollars annually paid on
the special agreement, running through the whole time of Minor's
service; and a verdict was had, and'a judgment rendered for five
thousand and fifty-five dollars and seventy-three cents, against
the estate, which was held responsible, regardless of the fact
that DaNiel Minor -Was bound to pay one hundred and fifty dollars of the four hundred, from April, 1834.,.to June, 1847, when
Alexandria county was retroceded to Virginia by Congress.
On this state of facts, the court was asked to instruct the jury,
(among other things) that "if from the vhole evidence aforesaid, the jury shall find that in April, 1834, the plaintiff entered
into the employment of the deceased to serve him as clerk at a
salary of 400 dollars for a single year, and thereafter continued
to serve the said Hunter as' clerk aforesaid, during the whole
time mentioned in said account and declaration, and that no
new agreement was made between the said plaintiff and said
Hunter, for a compensation different from that which was as
aforesaid first agreed upon between them'; and if they shall further find that said Hunter in his lifetime fully-paid said plaintiff
for his said services, at the rate aforesaid, then the plaintiff is
not entitled to recover in this action; which instruction the court
rbfused to give- as prayed, but did modify the same by inserting
the words "express or implied" between the words "agreement" and "was made."r
By thus modifying the instruction, the court told the jury, in
substance, that they might find on the allegation of a quantum
meruit, for work and labor done, and for services performed, and
hold that an agreement to pay on Hunter's part, might be "implied," because of the performance of the services; and, that a
'verdict might be found equal to the value of such services, according to the proof, deducting therefrom the amount already
paid on the special agreement; and that such agreement did
not preclude the plaintiff beloW from recovering additional
compensation, to any amount that the jury should think he was
entitled to. That the instruction as given did reject the special
agreement, and leave the jury fr e to imply a new promise arising on the quantum reruit, for labor and services, is manifest;
and therefore we are of opinion, that t-e instruction as propounded, ought to have been given'without an addition of- thewords "express or implied," as inserted by the Circuit Court
The letter, offered in evidence, was a plhin attempt on the part
of the plaintiff to make evidence for himself. It could only be
offered for the purpose of sho-wing that Hunter was thereby
notified of Minor's unwillingness to act as clerk after the notice,

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

467

Nutt v. Minor.

unless his compensation was increased, and that he would quit
unless there was an increase; or as evidence to be taken in connection with other subsequent proof, showing that Hunter assented to the propositiuns contained in the letter. But as Hunter
not only refused to sanction the-demand set up, but indignantly
resisted, and resented it, the letter could be of no value to establish a new promise; nor can it be of any value as notice
that additional compensation would be claimed for services
rendered thereafter, because the plaintiff, with full knowledge
of Hunter's determined rejection of the claim, continued to perform his ditties as clerk, and to receive his salary of 400 dollars
as usual, and thereby submitted to Hunter's assumption that
the salary was governed by the special agreement made in
1834. We are of opinion that this letter should have been
objected to as evidence, and the party offering it compelled by
the court to state for what purpose it was offered; so that it
might have been inspected and.passed on by the. court, without
being read to the jury. As, however, this course was not pursued at the trial by the defendant's counsel, and a general objection made to reading the letter for any purpose, we do not
think the court erred in admitting the evidence in the first instance, although it ought certainly to have been rejected and
taken from the jury, after the evidence was closed, had a motion
been made to this effect, because it was unsustained by other
evidence that Hunter assented to the claim made by the letter.
But as no motion was made to withdraw this piece of evidence,
the court properly left it with the jury.
We order that the judgment of the Circuit Court be reversed,
and that the cause be remanded for another trial.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

