$28

SUPIlEME COURT.
Perkins v. Fourniquet et ux.

Order.
This.cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the-Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the. said Circuit Court in
this cauise, be, and the same is. hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby,-remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to dismiss the complainant's bill.

.JOHN

PERKINS, APPELLANT,

V.

EDWARD

]?.

FounRNIQUET,

AND

HARRIET, HIS WIFE.
The sLxty-second rule of this &ourt, (13 Howard,) is as follows: "In cases where a
" writ of error is prosecuted to the Supreme Court, and the judgment of the inferior
court is affirmed, the interest shall be calculated and levied from the date of the
judgment below, until the same is paid, at the same rate that similar judgments
bear interest, in the courts of the State where such judgment is rendered. The
Same rule shall be applied to decrees for the payment of money, in eases in' Chancery, unless otherwise ordered by this court. This rule to take effect on the first
day of December term, 1852.
'Before this rule, interest was to be calculated at six per cent., from the date of the
judgment in the Circuit Court to the day of affirmance here; and the confirmation
of the report of the clerk, in the case of£ Mitchell v. Harmony, (13 Howard, 149,J
- was under the rules then existing.
So, also, where a case from Mississippi was affirmed at December term, 1851, the
mandate from this court should have been construed to allow interest at six per
-eent. from the date of the decree in the court below, to the date of the affirmance
in this court. Therefore, it was erroneous either to allow six*per cent. until paid,
or to allow the current rate of interest in Mississippi, in addition to the six per cent.
allowed by this court.
The several rules upon this subject examined'and explained.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It is stated, in the report of the preceding case, that, at December term, 1851, a case of Fourniquet and wife, against Per'kins, came up from Mississippi, and the decree of the Circuit
Court was here affirmed by a divided court. It was, therefore,
not reported.
The proceedings under the mandate, and the questiuva which
arose thereon, are set forth in the following opinion of the
court:

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY deliveredthe opinion of the court.
It appears, in this case; that on the 22d of May, 1849, the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Mississippi, passed a
decree in favor of the appellees, against the appellant, directing

DECEMBE9R TERM, 1852

329

Perkins v. Fourniquet et ux.

him to pay the sum of $16,496.61, within thirty days thereafter,
with legal interest from the date of the said decree, or, in default
thereof, the appellees to have execution against the appellant.
This decree was affirmed at the last term of this court, with
costs and damages, at the rate of six per cent. per annum; and
a mandate issued to the Circuit Court reciting the judgment of
this court, and directing it to be carried into execution.
After this mandate was filed in the Circuit Court, the appellees obtained an execution against the appellant, by which the
marshal -was commanded to levy thq amount of the original
judgment in the Circuit Court, with the Mississippi interest of
eight per cent., and damages at 'the rate of six per cent. in addition, rnaking together, fourteen per cent., from the dhte of, the
original judgment, until paid.
Th6 appellant insisted that, under the mandate, he was bound
to. pay nothing more than damages at the rate of six- per cent.
on the original decree, from the time it was rendered. And,
acting upon this construction of the judgment of this court, and
supposing himself chargeable with the six per cent. damages,
until the decree was satisfied, he payed the marshal, on the 12th
of May, 1852, the amount he. supposed to be due, calculating
the interest up to that time, and, by some error in the reckoning, he paid a small sum over. -And, as the appeJlees still insisted upon levying the whole amount for which they had
obtained piocess of execution, he moved the Circuit Court to
refer it to a Commissioner, 'to report the amount due under the
judgment of this court., arid how much, if any, he had overpaid
in his settlement with the marshal. It was adariitted that the
costs were all paid. The only controvers'y was about the interest
and damages, as. above stated.
The commissioner reported that, according- to the basis of'
settlement claimed by the appellant, he had overpaid the amount
due on the decree, $61.50; but that, according to the construction of the mandate insisted on by the appellees, there was still
due to them a balance of $3,831.02.
Upon this report, the appellant moved the court to order satisfaction of the decree to be entered of record; or, to quash the
execution then in the hands of the marshal, and order the clerk
of the court to issue no furthe ft. fa. on the decree; and, also,
for an order on the marshal, or the appellees, as might be proper
to refund the money overpaid.
But the court overruled the motion, ordering, at the same
time, that no further execution should issue, until the appellant
had a reasonable time to present an appeal to this court. -And
this appeal was accordingly taken.
An objection has.been made to the manner in which this case
28 *

SUPREME COURT.
Perkins v. Fourniquet et ux.

has been brought before the court, and a motion made to dis.
miss, upon the ground that an appeal will not lie from this
decision of the Circuit Court.
This objection to the form of proceeding, involves nothing
more than a question of practice. The mandate from this
court left nothing to the judgment and discretion of the Circuit
Court, but directed it to carry into execution the decree of this
court, which was recited in the mandate. And if the decree of
this court has been misunderstood, or misconstrued, by the court
below, to the injury of either party, we see no valid objection to
an appeal to this court, in order to have the error corrected.
The question is merely' as to the form of proceeding which this
court should adopt, to enforce the execution of its. own mandate
in the court below. The subject might, without doubt, be
brought before us upon motion, and a mandamus issued to compel its execution. But an appeal from the decision of the e urt
below, is equally convenient and suitable; and, perhaps, more
so, in some cases, as it gives the adverse party notice that the
question will be brought before this court, and affords him the
opportunity of being prepared to meet it a , an early day of the
term. The appeal certainly would not stay proceedings. And
it would be the duty of the Circuit Court, notwithstanding the
appeal, to proceed to execute the judgment of this court, unless,
as in this case, he entertained doubts of its construction and
meanin6, and deemed it, therefore, just and equitable to suspend
its execution, until the decision of this court could be had in
the premises.
In the case before us, however, there was substantially an
equity proceedihg and fiuiil decree, after the mandate was filed.
It is true, they were summary, and necessarily so, as the matters
in dispute under the execution were brought before the court by
motion. But the claims of the respective parties were referred
to a Commissioner to examine and report; he made his report,
and the court decided upon it. This decision, although briefly
stated,.was, in substance, a final decree upon the matters i i
controversy. It might, therefore, under the act of Congress, be
regarded as such, and revised accordingly, by an appeal to this
court. Plenary and formal proceedings are not necessary, and
never Tequired, when the dispute is confined to matters arising
under process of execution. They are more conveniently and
as fully brought before the court, by a summary proceeding on
motion.
The questions in controversy in the Circuit Court, and its
decision upon them, are, therefore regularly before us.
The difficulty in that court, seems to have arisen from supposing that the act of 1842 applied to judgments and decrees in

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

331

Perkins-v. Fourniquet et ux.

this court. And this, we presume, occasioned the error it committed, in the construction and execution of the decree and
mandate in question.
The act of 1842 does not erhbrace cases in equity; .nor does
it extend to either judgments or decrees, in this court. It ir
.confined, in plain terms, to judgments at law, in the circuit and
-district courts. It places the judgments of these courts, in
respect to interest, upon the same footing with the judgments
of the State courts. And where, by the law of the State, the
judgment of a court carries a certain interest until paid, the
former rule and the same rate of interest is to be allowed in the
circuit and district courts of tle United States. And the marshall is directed to levy it on process of execution, wherever it
can be so levied on a judgment in the State Court. Ipa such
cases the judgment bears interest by force of the law, -although,
upon the face of it, it may not purport to 4arry interest. Upon
common-law principles a judgment does not carry interest. It
is true, that damages may be recovered for the detention of the
debt, in an action on the judgment. But previous to the act of
1842, neither interest nor damages, for the detention of the debt,
could have been levied under process of execution, upon the
judgment of a circuit or district court of the United States.
But the act of 1842, does not speak of interest or damages
upon the judgments of this court, nor does it repeal the 23d
section of the act of 1789.. This section provides, that when a
judgment or decree is affirmed here, this court is directed to
adjudge or decree to the respondent in error, just damages for
his delay, and single or double costs, at their discretion. Under
this law there is no distinction made between cases in equity,
and at law. In either of them, the damages to be allowed, in
addition to the amoiint found to be due by the judgment or
decree of the court below, is confided to the judicial discretion
of this court. And the 17th, 18th, and 20th rules were adopted
in pursuance of this power.
These rules have been in force, and .acted on by the court,
since 1807, when the 20th rule was adopted, until the new rule
upon'this subject was made at the close of the last term. And
the change then made was not occasioned by any supposed
epugnancy between them and the act of 1842. But because
the court deemed it just to place the judgments in this court
upon the same footing with the judgments in the circuit and
district courts; and that suitors in the courts of the United
States, should stand on the same ground with suitors in the
State courts in its appellate, as well as in its inferior tribunals.
In adopting the new rule this court exercised :the same power
which it had exercised in adopting the former rules, that is, the

382

SUPREME COURT.
Perkins v. YFurniquet et ux.

discretionary power conferred by the act of 1789, as hereinbefore mentioned.
The 17th rule provides, that when a case appears to be brought
merely fox delay, damages shall be awarded at the rate of ten
per cent. on the amount of the judgment; and by the 18th rule,
the damages are to be at the rate of six per cent. when it appears that tVere is a real controversy.
These ;wo rules were passed in 1803. And as some difficulty
arose as to the time for which these damages were to be computed, the 23d rule was afterwards (1807) adopted, and provides, that the damages allowed by the t-vo former rules shall
be calculated to the day of the affirmance of the judgment in
this court.
The question as to the operation of tfe act of 1842, upon
the 18th and 20th rules, was brought to the' consideration of the
court at the last term, in the case of Mite ell v. Harmony. The
judgment brought up by the writ of error, was rendered in the
Circuit Court of New York, and was affirmed in this court.
The sum recovered was large, and the interest, even for a short
time, was therefore important. And the counsel for Harmony,
the defendant in error, moved the court to allow him the New
York interest of seven per cent. upon the amount of the judgment, and that the interest should run until the judgment was
paid. But as the rules above mentioned were still in force, the
court held, that he was entitled only to six per cent., to be calculated. from the date of the judgment in the Circuit Court, to
the day of affirmance here.
The case now before us, was decided in the early part of the
last term, before the case of Mitchell v. Harmony, and consequently falls within- the operation of the same rules, and damages upon the affirmance of the decree raust be calculated ii
like manner.
Indeed, in the New York case, the claim for interest stood on
stronger ground than in the present one, for that was an action
at law. The act of 1842, therefore, applied to the judgment in
the Circuit -Court, and it would have cafried the State interest
until paid, if it had not been brought here by writ of error. But
this is a decree in equity, and not embracedIn the act of 1842,
and according to the settled chancery practice, no interest or
damages could have been levied under process of execution,
upon the amount ascertained to be due, and decreed to be paid,
if there had been no appeal ; 2 Ves. 157, 168, n. 1, Sumn, Ed.; 2
Dan. Chan. Plead. and Prac. 1442, 1437, 1438. Nor could any
damages or interest have been given on its affirmance here, but
for the discretionary power vested in this court by the act, of
1789 That discretion, as we have already said, extends to de.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

333

Perkins v. Fourniquet et ux.

crees in equity, as well as judgments at law. And the rules
have always been applied to both, unless otherwise specially ordered.
It follows, from what we have said, that the appellees, upon
the affirrmance of the deciee, were entitled to damages at the
rate of six per cent., to be calculated from the date of the decree
to the date of the affirmance; and to no 'further interest or
damages. The decree was passed by the Circuit Court, on the
22d day of May, 1849, for $16,496.61, and was affirmed in this
court on the 24th of December, 1851. The interest from the
date of the decree to the time of affirmance in this court, is
$2,562.37, maling together the aggregate sum of $19,053.98.
This amount, together with the costs, is all that the appellees
were entitled to recover under the judgment and mandate of
this court. It appears, however, that the marshal has receivedr
under the process of execution, $19,500, in addition to the costs,
and paid it over to the solicitor of the appellees.
They have, therefore, received $441.02 more than they were
entitled, and that sum must be refunded to the appellant.
It is proper to say, that the mandate in question.was in the
usual form, and the same with the mandate in Mitchel v. Harmony, and indeed the same that has been used since the adoption of the rules above mentioned. And it never has been supposed by this court to sanction the collection of State interest
on the judgment; and still less the unprecedented interest and
damages claimed in this case, amounting together to fourteen
per cent.
The decree of the Circuit Court, overruling the motion of the
appellant, mpst therefore be reversed, and a mandate issued,
directing the court below to enter the decree satisfied, and also
to order and direct the appellees to repay to the appellant the
sum of $441.02, with the State interest thereon of eight per
cent. from the time it was received by their solicitor from the
marshal.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from- the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of 'Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that the decree of the Circuit Court overruling the motion of
the appellant, be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs,
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with instructions to that court to enter the
decree rendered by that court on the 22d day of May, A. .
1849, for $16,496.61, with legal interest from said date, satisfied,

834

SUPREkM

COURT.

Harris v. Hardeman et aL

and to order and direct the appellees to iepay to the appellant
the sum of $441.02, with the State interes thereon, of eight per
cent. from the time it was received by theii solicitor from the
marshal.

BENJAMIN D. HARRIS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM HARDEMAN, HENRY R. W. HILL, -COTESWORTH P. SMITH, AND HENRY

A. MooRE.
A statute of Mississippi directs that where the defendant cannot be found, a writ of
capias ad respondendum shall be served, by leaving a copy thereof with the wife of
the defendant, or some free white person above the ng3 of sixteen years, then and
there being one of the family of the defendant, and found at his usual place of
abode, or leaving a copy thereof at some public place, at the dwelling-house or
other known place of residence of such defendant, he being from home, and no
snch.free white person being found there willing to receive the same.
The Circuit Court of the United States adopted a rule that the capias should be
served personally; or, if the defendant be not found, by leaving a copy thereof at his
or her residene, or usual place of abode, at least twenty days before the return day
thereof.
The marshal made the following return to a writ of capias: "Executed on the defendant Hardeman, by leaving -a true copy at his resideice."
This service was neither in conformity with the statute nor the rule.
Therefore, when the court gave judgment, by default against Hardeman, and an exeli~tlon was issued, upon which a forthcoming bond was given, and another execution issued, and at a subsequent day the court quashed the proceedings, an4 set
aside the judgment by default, this order was correct.
When the judgment by default was given, the court was not in a condition to exercise jurisdiction over the defendant, becausenthere was no regular service of process,
actual or constructive.
The cases upon this point, examined.
Moreover, when the proceedings were quashed, they were still in Jfer, and not termi.nated; and any irregularity could be corrected, on mot-on.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of en-or, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Aelson for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Freemanfor the defendant.
Mr. Nelson contended that the judgmen; of the court below
was erroneous, and referred to the following authorities.
To show that the bond was regularly taken under the lississippi statute. Hutch. Code, 910, Art. 6, see. 2; Howard &
flutch. 653, see. 78.
The ground of the motion made by the defendants in error,
in the court below, was, that th" originaljudgment was void for

