80

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and liaritan Canal Company.

Eastern District of Louisiana, and.was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause 'be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to enter judgment for David B.
Herman, the plaintiff in error.

GEORGE RUNDLE AND WILLIAMix GRIFFITH s, TRUSTEES OF THE
ESTATE OF JOHN SAVAGE, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
V. THE DELAWARE AND RARITAN CANAL COMPANY.
By the law of Pennsylvania. the River Delaware is a public navigable river, held by

to divert its
its joint sovereigns in trust for the public.
no tile to the river, or any right
Bparian owners, in that State, have
waters, unless by license from the States..
divert
in subjectioneither
to the
rerior right of the State, to
Such
license
the water
is revocable,
for publicandimprovements,
by sn
the State directly, or by a corporation created for
that purpose.
not

The pro 'iso to the provincial acts of Pennsylvania and Ne'w Jersey, of 1771. does
river to A.dam HIoops and
the watersof of
usufructoroftoleration
grant
operate as a but
darn.
histhe
onlyof asthea license,

his assigns,
As,by the laws of his own State, the .plaintiff could ha'e no remedy against a corporation authorized to take the whole waters of the river for the purpose of canals,
or improving the navigation, so, neither can he sustain a suit against a corporation
of thetowaters.
taken
purpose,inwho
same
'by New Jer~ey for the at
created
the two
the water
of part
usufruct
the have
sufferanc
plaintiffs
The

to question•
condition
nft in aof
are consent
common,
own the
wvho rights
States
the other.
without
waters
use its in
eitherastotenants
o river
the relative
emolument,
for private
licensee,
to decide
case
This
priwto for can
.or both,
sovreig
either
licensee aoffirst
a later whether
against
a is not intended
support
vate purposes, diverts the water to the injury of "the first.

case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Ts
Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey.
The facts in the case are set forth in the opinion of the court.
for
oroom and
Ashmead
s by r.tinr.
in print
I was gar ed al
orally, for the
_ead001.
the jtaintifl in error, and b$r Mr. Iohn
defendants in error. There was also a printed argument upon
the same side, submitted by himself and t . Green.
The arguments, upon both sides, contained histor~cal accounts
of the legislation of Pennsylvania ap.d New Jersey on the subject of the River Delaware, and the various compacts'and negotiations between them. It is impossible, it the report of a law

case, to give an explaniatio of nthese ransactions, commencing
before the Revc. ution, Those who may have occasion to investigate the matter minutely, would do well to obtain fom the
counsel their respective argurents. Al that w.l be attempted,

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

81

Rundle at al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

in this report, will be to give an account of the points which
were made.
The declaration charged the Canal Company with having,
1. Erected a dam in the River Delaware, above the works of
the plaintiffs, and, by means of it, obstructed and penned up
the waters of the river.
2. With digging a canal, and diverting the waters of the
river into it, and so leading them into the State of New Jersey.
3." With cutting off the streams and brooks which theretofore had been tributary to the said Rive- Delaware, and preventing them from flowing into it.
4. With using the waters, taken from the river, to supply the
said canal, and to create a water power, from which they supply
various mills, manufactories, and other establishments, with
,water, for the sake of gain.
The judgment of the court'upon the demurrer being that the
plaintift had no right of action, the counsel for the plaintiffs in
this court assumed the following as the grounds upon which
the court blow founded its decision, which grounds they severally contested.
The points ruled in the court below, and of which the plaintiffs complain as being erroneous, are:
1. That the authority under which the dam of Adam Hoops
has been kept and maintained in the River Delaware; since the
year 1771, was not . grant, but a license, revokable at the
pleasure of New Jersey alone, and, at best, impunity for a
nuisance.
2. That the plaintiffs, who claim as the assignees of Adam
.Hoops, for the diversion of the water from their mills, cannot
recover, because their Works are situated in the State of Pennsylvania, and not in New Jersey, and that the claim for damages must be regulated by the rule established by the Pennsylvania courts, which rule is opposed to tha one recognized in the
State of New Jersey, and applied by the Supreme Court to
these defendants in error in a similar case.
3. That it is not competent for the plaintiffs to questi6n the
authority of New Jersey, to take the waters of the Delaware for
her public improvements, without the consent of Pennsylvania.
First Point. With respect to the first point, the counsel for
the plaintiffs in error contended,
1. That the said acts were, in form, substance, and legal effect,
a grant, and not a license. They then commented on the acts,
and cited the following authorities:
An authority given, will operate by way of license or grant,
according to its nature and the intention of the parties. Thus,
in 15 Viner's Ab. Tit. Lease, (N.) P1. 1, it is said,, "Tha i if a

82

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

man license me to enter -into his land, and to occupy it for a
year, half year, or such like, this is a lease and shall be so
pleaded." A confirmation of a title by act of Congress, (which
was the least effect to be given tc, the acts of 1771 and 1804,)
not only renders it a legal title, but, furnishes higher evidence of
that fact than a patent, inasmuch as it is a direct, *hereas a
patent is only the act of its ministerial officer. Grignon's Lessee
v. Astor, 2 Howard, 319 ; Sims v. Irvine, 3 Dallas, 425 ; Patton
v. Easton, 1 Wheaton, 476; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 410.
In this latter case, at page 454, it is said by Judge Baldwin,
delivering the opinion of the court, "that a grant may be
made by a law, as well as a patent pursuant to a law, is
undoubted, 6 Cr. 128; and a confirmation by a law, is as fully,
to all intents and.purposes, a grant, as if it contained in terms a
grant de novo."
2. If the acts of 1771 are to be regarded as a technical
license, such license is not revocable by the parties granting it,
or either of them, it being a license not executory, but executed,
on the faith of which large expenditures had been incurred, pre.
vious to the alleged revocation by the State of New Jersey, in
1830, by the passage of the act chartering the Delaware and
Raritan Canal.
The authorities are clear and conclusive, that a license by one
man to another, to make use of his land for purposes requing
expenditures )f money, and contemplating permanence, is, in
effect a grant, and is not revocable in its nature. Thus, in
Rerick v. Kern, 14 S. & Rawle, 267, it is said that, "permission
to use water for a mill, or or any thing else that was viewed by
tjhe parties as a permanent erection, will te of unlimited dura.tion and survive the erection itself, if it should be destroyed, or
fall into a state of dilapidation." Although a license executory
may be revoked, yet a -license executed cannbt be. Winter v.
Brockwell, 8 East, 308. Lord Ellenborough says. in this case,
"that he thought it unreasonable, that, after a party had been
led to incur expense , in consequence of having obtained a
licnse from another to do an act, and that the license had been
entered upon, that either should be permitted to recall his
license." In Taylor v. Waters, 7 Taunton, 374, it is decided
that a license' granted on tosideration cannot be revoked
Liggins v. Inge, 7 Bingham, 682, (20 English C6m. Law. 287,)
decides that where the plaintiff's father, by oral license, .permitted the defendant to lower the bank of "a river, and to make
a weir above the plaintiff-'s mill, whereby less water than before
flowed to the plaintiff's mill, the plaintiff could not sue the
defendants for continuing the weir; the court holding that the
ice.lse in -hat case, being executed, was not countermandable

DECEMBER TERM,
Ruildle et. a]

r

1852.

83

Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

by the party who gavt it. So, in Wood v. Manly, 11 Adol. &
Ems, 34, (39 Eng. CQm. Law 19,) it was held that a license to
enter upon land to take away property purchased thereon: was
part of the consideration of the purchase, and could not be
revoked. The case of Webb v. Paternoster, (Palmer, 151,) asserts
'the general principle, that an executed license is not countermandable. Rerick v. Kern, (14" S. & Rawle, 267,) was the case of
a license to use a water power, given without any consideration, and held not revocable. The court said the license "was
a direct encouragement to spend money," and "it would be
against all conscience to annul it," and further, that "the execution of it would be specifically enjoined; and that the party
co whom the license was granted would not be turned round to
his remedy for damages." "How very inadequate it '-Tould b?.
in a case like this," says the court, "is perceived by consider:
ing that a license, which has been followed by the expenditure
of ten thousand dollars, as a necessary qualification. for the
enjoyment of it, may be revoked by an obstinate man who is
not worth as many cents." Again, it is remarked-" having had
in view an unlimited enjoyment of the privilege, the grantee
has purchase'd, by the expenditure of monay, a right indefinite
In point of duration."
3. If the joint acts of 1771 and 1804, are ever to be regarded
as a revocable licpnse, and not as a grant, such license has never
been actually revoked by both or either of the State legislatures.
The act of 1830, by which the Delaware and Raritan Canal
Company was chartered by the State of New Jersey, contains
no such provision, and a revocation by implication will not be
inferred where so great a wrong would be perpetratea on an
individual.
4. Admitting that the State of New Jersey, by the act chartering the Delaware and Raritan Canal Company, intended to
revoke the grant or executed- license made to Adam Hoops, and
those claiming under him; it was incompetent for that State. to
do so.
If the joint act of the legislatures of the two States be a
grant, or, what is the same in legal effect, an executed license,
then that grant or executed license is -a contract within the
meaning of the constitution, and cannot be impaired by subsequent legislation. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; Terret v.
Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43.
Vfie're a legislature has once made a
grant it is as much estopped by it as is an individual. Such a
grant amounts to an extinguishment of the right of the grantor;
and a contract not to reassert that right. Id. It is a principle
applicable to every grant that it cannot effect preexisting titles.
Although a grant is conclusive pn its face, and cannot be con-

SUPREME GOURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan.Canal Company.

troverted, yet if the thing granted is not in the grantor, no right
passes to the grantee. City of New Orleans v. Armas, 9 Peters,
"224; New Orleans v. United States, 10 Peters, 662; Lindsey
Lessee of Miller, 6 Peters, 666.
Again: If the franchise and privileges, secured to the plaintiffs
by thte joint acts of 1771, are the subjeet of legislative revocation, the revocation must.certainly be as extensive as the license
accorded. It must, to be effectual, be the :oint act of both legislatures, and not the separate act of either. Pennsylvania was
no party to the charter granted by New Jersey to the defendants.
'Indeed, she refu 3ed tb become such, on the terms proposed by
her. In many respects, this case resembles that of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. The Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company, 4 Gill & Johns. 1. This was the case of
a contest between the plbaintiffs, who cla:.med under the joint
acts of the States of Maryland and Virginia and the United
States, and the -defendants, who claimed part of the same franchise under a separate act. of the State of Maryland. It was
held, that neither Maryland nor Virginia, without the consent
of the 6ther, could impair a charter granted by their previous
joint legislation, nor could they do so ever, jointly.
Second Point. The second proposition 'ruled by the learned
Judge .below, was, that the plaintiffs, who claim as the assignees
of Adam Hoops, for the diversion of the water from their mills,
cannot recover, because their Works are situated in the State of
Pennsylvania, and not in New Jersey, and that the claim for
damages mu-t be regulated by the Pennsylvania courts, which
rule.is opposea- to the one recognized in the State of New Jersey,
and applied by the Supreme Court to these defendants in error
in a similar case.
1. The accuracy of this position is denied; because,the
action, having been instituted in the Circuit Court of New Jersey, against a New Jersey corporation,'to recover damages consequent upon the erection of a public work exclusively within
her own soil, the laws of 'New Jersey and the decisions of its
Supreme Court,. must furnish the rule of deision as to the
extent of the liability of this corporation for the act complained
of, and not the laws and decisions of Pennsylvania, as to the
liability of Pennsylvania corporations.
2. If the plaintiffs' claim for damages isto be regulated. Dy
the decisions in Pennsylvania, there is no case of binding authority in the adjudications of Pennsylvaaia, which rules this
point against them; the doctrine not going to the extent supposed by the learned.Judge.
Third -Point. The third point ruled by the learned Judge
below, is, "that it is not competent for the plaintiffs to question

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

85

Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

the authority of New Jersey to take the waters of the DeIaware
River for her public improvements, *ithout the consent of Pennsylvania, the chennel and waters of this river being vested in
the two States, as tenants in common, and no one can question
the authority of either to divert the water, but the other."
(These points were examined and contested.)
It has been before mentioned, that the briefs of the counsel
contained references to numerous historical documents. That
filed on the part of the defendants in error was very elaborate,
and 11C. Read referred to them in his oral argument. The summing up was as follows:
We have thus presented a chronological detail of the history
of the Delaware, and of the legislative negotiation, and.executive action of both States in relation to the river, its navigation,
and the various uses of its water for canal or mill purposes; and
we think it can leave no doubt, in any dispassionate mind, that
the plaintiffs in error have no title whatever to claim damages
from the Delaware and Raritan Canal Company, for taking
water from the river for the use of its canal, under a direct
and positive authority granted by the legislature of New Jersey.
Adam Hoops's dam, uniting the iain land with Bird's Island,
and extending from the head of it into the main channel of the
river, and perhaps one other dam on the Pennsylvania side,
were erected by the owners of the fast land, prior to 1771, without any authority whatever, either from the crown, or. the provincial government. Now, these erections being in the 'iver,
and beyond the low-water mark, whether the tide ebbed and
flowed there or not, or whether the river was then vested in the
crown or the proprietaries, were, by the unqiestioned law of
Pennsylvania, nuisances, and could have been abated by individuals, and certainly by the authorized agents of the govern:
ment.
The law of Pennsylvania is well stated by Mr. Justice Grier,
in this case. "But the law of Pennsylvania," says the learned
Judge, "by which the title and rights of the plaintiffs.must be
tested, differs materially from that of England and most of the
other States of the Union. As regards her large fresh-water
rivers, she has adopted the principles of the civil law, in p -ference to that of England." Rundle v. Delaware and Ratitan
Canal Company, Wallace, Jr. 297.
In the case of Carson v. Blazer, the Supreme Court of that
State, decided that the large rivers, such as the Susquehanna
and Delaware, were neveri deemed subject to the common law
of England applicable to fresh-water streams; but they are to
be treated as "navigable rivers ;" that the grants of William
Penn, the proprietary, never extended beyond the margin of the
VOL. XIV.
-8

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

river, which belonged to the public; and that the riparian
owners have, therefore, no exclusive right to the soil or water
of such river, ad filum miedium aquw.
These principles are fully sustained by all the Pennsylvania
cases down to the present time, which are cited below, and
which also exemplify the doctrine that mere tolerations or
licenses on navigable streams, are always in the power of the
sovereign, and can be withdrawn, at any moment, without any
violation of the constitutional provision.
These nuisances were in existence at the passage of the act
of 9th March, 1771, and, under its general terms, the commissioners named in it, would have been obliged to abate them at
once, as artificial obstructions to the navigation, except for the
tproviso in the 7th section, which prohibits the commissioners,,
therein appointed, from removing or altering the same. The
same observation applies to the New Jersey act of the same
year.
"But," to use again the language of the learned Judge be,
low, "we can discover nothing in the nature of a grant in the
words of this proviso. It amounts to no more than the present
toleration of a nuisance, previously erected, or, at most, to a
license revocable at pleasure. The'doctrine of the cases which
we have just quoted, applies to it with fll force and conclusive effect; nor can the plaintiff claim by prescription against
the public for more than the act confers on him, which, at best,
is but an impunity for a nuisance." 2, 3inn. 475; Brown v.
Commonwealth, 3 S. & R. 273; Shrunk v. Schuylkill Navigation Co. 14 S. & R. 71 ; Bacon v. Arthur, 4 Watts, 4:37; Couvert v. O'Connor, 8 Watts, 470; Ball v. Slack, 2 Wharton, 508,
538; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. Coons, 6 'ff. & S. 101; Susquehanna Canal Co. v. Wright, 9 Id. 9; Commonwealth v.
Church, 1 Barr, 105 ; Fisher v. Carter, 1 Wallace, Jr. 69; Mayor
v. Commissioners of Spring Gardens, 7 Barr, 348; Reading v.
Commonwealth, 1 Jones, 201; M'Kinney v. 'Mionongahela Nay.
Co. 2 Harris, 66; Henry v. Pittsburg, 8 W. & S. 85; O'Connor
v. Pittsburg, Sept. 1851, MS; Wallace, Jr. 300, 301.
But if there be any doubt on this subject, it is removed by a
reference to the agreement of 26th April, 1783, between the two
sovereign States of New Jersey and Pennsyl ania, then recognizing no common superior, and not affected by any provision
afterwards contained in the Constitution of the United States.
The acts of 1771 were temporary in their character, and all
operations under them ceased from tie commencement of the
Revolutionary War. The compact of 1783, which is perpetual
in its operation, declared "the River Delaware, from the station
point, or north-west corner of New Jersey northerly, to the place

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

87

Rnnd-le et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.
upon the said river where the circular boundary of the State of
Delaware toucheth upon the sarme, in the whole length and
breadth thereof, is, and shall continue to be and remain a cornmon highway, equally free and open for the use, benefit, and
advantage of the said contracting parties."
Such language admits of no dispute. It is a complete and
total revocation of all license or toleration, or grant of any'kind
to any dams or works erected on the Pennsylvania or Jersey
side of the river, which were nuisances ab ori*g-ine.
It cannot be supposed that two or more original nuisances
were saved out of ihe general and comprehensive terms of the
compact, and that they are, to subsist to all future time as obstacles to any use of the river, by either or both States, which
way in any manner affect the works thus placed on the soil and
in the waters of the public.
This view is supported by the ijnbroken legislation of Pennsylvania particularly - by the ground taken by her commissioners in 117, and virtually recogLlized by those of New Jersey,
and by the subsequent agreements of 1829 and 1834, entered
into b) the commissioners of both -States which treated these
woilks as nuisances, and as not to be regarded in any disposition
to be made of the waters of the river, whether by the erection
of darns, or for the supply of canal or water power.
They were in fact treated as if they had no legal existence.
Can such a title give a claim for damages upon a company incorporated by a sovereign State of the confederacy ?
It is also clearly "not competent for the plaintifl to question
the authority of New Jersey to take the vat.rs of the Delaware
for her public improvements, without the consent of Pennsylvania. The channel and waters of this river are vested in the
two States, as tenants in common, as we have already seen;
and no one can question the authority of either to divert its
waters but the other. Pennsylvania was the first to seize on a
portion of their joint property, for her separate use, and is estopped by her own act from complaint against New Jersey, who
has but followed her example. Besides this, mutual consent
may be presumed from mutual acquiescence. At all events, the
plaintiff, who is shown to have no.title to the river, or any part
of it, aud whose toleration or license could at best only protect
him from a prosecution, is not in a situation to di'spute the
rights of either, or claim compensation for a diversion of its
vaters, for the purpose of the public improvements of either of
its sovereign owners."
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintifl in error, who were plaintiffs below, are owners

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

of certain mills in Pennsylvania, opposite to the city of Trenton,
in New Jersey. These mills are supplied with water from the
Delaware River, by means of a dam externding from the Pennsylvania shore to an island lying-near and parallel to it, and extending along the rapids to the head of tide water.
The plaintiffs, in their declaration, show title to the property
under one-Adam Hoops, who had erected his mill and built a
dam in the river previous to the year 1771. In that year, the
Provinces of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, reslpectively, passed
act.j declaring the River Delaware a common highway for purposes of navigation up and down the same, and mutually appointing commissioners to improve the navigation thereof, with
full power and authority to remove any obstructions whatsoever,
natural or artificial; and subjecting to fine and imprisonment
any person who should set up, repair, or maintain any dam or
,obstruction in the same, provided, "that nothing herein contained shall give any power or authority to the commissioners
herein appointed, or any of them, to remove, throw down, lower,
impair, or in any manner to alter a mill-dam erected by Adam
Hoops, Esq., in the said River Delaware, betveen his plantation
and an island in the said river, nearly opposite to Trenton; or
any mill-dam erected by any other person or pers6ns in the said
river, before the passing of this act, nor to obstruct, or in any
manner to hinder the said Adam Hoops, or such other person
or persons, his or their heirs and assigns, from maintaining, raising, or repairing the said dams respectively, or from taking
water out of the said river for the use of the said mills and
waterworks erected as aforesaid, and none other."
The declaration avers, that by these acts of the provincial
legislatures, the said Hoops, his heirs and assigns, became entifled to the free and uninterrupted enjoyment and privilege of
the River Delaware for the use of the said mills, &c., without
diminution or alteration by or from the act of said Provinces,
now States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, or any person or
persons claiming under them or either of them. Nevertheless,
that the defendants erected a dam in said river above plaintiffs'
mills, and dug a canal and diverted the water, to the great injury, &e.
The defendants are a corporation, chartered by New Jersey,
for the purpose of "constructing a canal from the waters of the
Delaware to those of the Raritan, and of improving the navigation of said rivers." They admit the construction of the
canal, and the diversioin of the waters of the river for that purpose, but derur to the declaration, and set forth as causes of
demurrer" That the act of the legislature of the then Province of Penn.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and RaritalLCanal Company.

sylvania, passed Marcti ninth, in the year of our Lord one
thousand seven hundred'and seventy-one, and the act of the
then Province. of New Jersey, passed December twenty-first,
in the year of our Lord'one thousand seven hundred and seventyone, as set forth in said amended fifth count, do not vest in
the said Adam Hoops, or in his heirs or assigns, the right and
privilege. to the use of the water of the River Delaware without
diminution or alteration, by or from the act of the then Province,
now State, of Pennsylvania, or of the then Province, now State,
of New Jersey, or f any person or persons claiming under
either of them, or of any person or persons whomsoever, as
averred in the said amended fifth count of the said declaration.
And also, for that it does not appear, from the said amended fifth
count, that the same George Rundle and William Griffiths are
entitled to the right and privilege to the use of the water ol, the
River Delaware, in manner and form as they have averred in the
said amended fifth count of their declaration.
"And also that, as it appears from the said amended fifth count,
that the said River Delaware is a common highway and public
navigable river, over which the States of Pennsylvania and New
Jersey have concurrent jurisdiction, and a boundary of said
States, these defendants insist that the legislative acts of the
then Province of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, passed in theyear of our Lord seventeen hundred and seventy-one, as set
forth in the said amended fifth count, were intefided to declare
the said River Delaware a common highway, and for improving
the navigation thereof, and that the provision therein contained,
as to the mill-dam erected by Adam Hoops, in the said River Delaware, did not and does not amount to a grant or conveyance of
water power to the said Adam Hoops, his heirs or assigns, or to
a surrender of the public right in the waters of the said river,
but to a permission only to obstruct the waters of the said
river by the said dam, without being subjected to the penalties
of nuisance; that the right of the said Adam, Hdops was, and
that of his assigns is, subordinate to the public right at the
pleasure of the legislature of Pennsylvaria and New Jersey, or
either of them."
On this demurrer the court below gave judgment for tl. defendants, which is now alleged as error.
It is evident, that the extent of the plaintiff's rights as a riparian owner, and the question whether this proviso operates as
the grant of a usufruct of the watefs of the river, or only as a
license or toleration of a nuisance, liable to revocation or subordinate to the paramount public right, must depend on the
laws and-customs of Pennsylvania, as expounded by her own
courts, It3vill be proper, therefore, to give a brief sketch of

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et &l. v. Delawsre and Raritan Canal Company.

the public history of the river and the legislative action connected with it, as also of the principles of law affecting acuatic
rights, as developed and established by the courts of that State.
The River Delaware is the well known bcundary between the
States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Below tide water,
the river, its soil and islands, formerly belonged to the crown;
above tide water, it was vested in the proprietaries of the coterminous provinces-each holding ad inedium filum aqm'.
Since the Revolution, the States have succeeded to the public
Hights both of the crown and the proprietaries. Immediately
after the Revolution, these St
. entered into the compact of
1783, declaring the Delaware a common highway for the use of
both, and ascertaining their respective jurisdiction over the same.
For thirty years after this compact, they appear to have enjoyed
their common property without dispute or collision. When
the legislature of either State passed an act affecting it, they requested and obtained the concurrence and consent of the o her.
Their first dispute was caused by an act of New Jersey, passed
February 4, 1815, authorizing Coxe and others to erect a wing
dam, and divert the water for the purpose of miUs rend other
machinery. The consent of the State of Pennsylvania was not
requested; it therefore callkd forth a protest frorm thc legislature
of that State. This was followed by further remonstrance in
the following year. A proposition was made to submit the
question of their respective rights to the Supreme Court of the
United 9)tates, which was rejected by New Jersey. After numerous messages and remonstrances between the governors and
legislatures, commissioners were mutually appointed to compromise the disputes. But they failed to bring the matter to an
amicable conclusion. The dispute was never settled, and the
wing dam remained in the river.
In 1824, New Jersey passed the first act for the incorporation
of the Delaware and Raritan Canal Company, foi which the
company gave a bonus of $100,000. This act req;uires the consent of the State of Pennsylvania; and on application being
imade to her legislature, she clogged her consent with so many
conditions, that New Jersey refused to accept her terms, returned
the bonus to the company; and so the matter ended for that
time.
Both parties then appointed commissioners to effect, if possible, some compact or arrangement by which each State should
be authorized to divert so much water as would be neces.sary
for'these contemplated canals. After protracted negotiations,
these commissioners finally (in 1834) agreed upon terms, but
the. c6mpact proposed by them was never ratified by either
party.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

91

Rundle et al. v. Delaivare and Raritan Canal Company,

In the mean time, each State appropriated to itself as much
of the waters of the river as suited its purpose. In 1827 and
1828, Pennsylvania diverted the River Lehigh, a confluent of the
Delaware, and afterwards, finding that stream insufficient, took
additional feeders for her canal,, out of the main stream of the
Delaware. On the 4th February, 1830, the legislature of New
Jersey passed the act under which the defendants were incorporated, and in pursuance of which, they have constructed the
dam and feeder, the subject of the present suit.
The canals in both States, supplied by the river, are intimately and extensively connected -with their trade, revenues,
and general property- while the navigation of the river above
tide w4ter, and the rapids at Trenton, is of comparatively
trifling importance, being used only at-times of the spring freshets, for floating timber down the stream, when the artificial
diversions do not affect the navigation. The practical benefits
resulting to both parties, from their great public improvements,
appear to have convinced them that further negotiations, complaints, or remonstrances, would be useless and unreasonable;
and thus, by mutual acquiescence and tacit consent, the necessity
of a more formal compact has been superseded.
The law of Pennsylvania, by which the title and rights of the
plaintiffs must b! tested, differs materially from that of England,
and most of the other States of the Union. As regards her
large fresh-water rivers, she has adopted the principles of the
civil law. In the case of Carson v. Blazer, the Supreme Court
of that State decided, that the large rivers, such as the Susquehanna and Delaware, were never deemed subject to the doctrines of the common law of England, applicable to fresh water
streams, but that they arc to be treated as navigable rivers; that
the grants of William Penn, the proprietary, never extended beyond the margin of the river, which beloriged to the public, and
that the riparian owners have therefore no exclusive rights to-the
soil or water of such rivers ad filum medium aquwe.
In Shrunk v. The Schuylkill Navigation Company, the same
court repeat the same doctrine ; and Chief Justice Tilghman, in
delivering the opinion of the court, observes: "1Care seems to
have been taken, from the beginning, to preserve the waters of
these rivers for public uses, both of fishery and navigation ;
and the wisdom of that policy is now more striking than ever,
from the great improvements in navigation, and others in contemplation, to effect which, it is necessary to obstruct the flow
of the water, in some placesf and in others to divert its course. It
is true that the State would have h-.d a right to do these things
for the public benefit, even if the rivers had been private property; but then, compensation must have been made to the

92

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et al v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

owners, the amount of which might have been so enormous as
to have frustrated, or at least checked these noble undertakings."
In the case of The Monongahela Navigation Company v.
Coons, the defendant had erected his mill runder a license given
by an act of the legislature (in 1803) to riparian owners to
erect dams of a particular structure, "proviled they did not imjede the navigation," &c. The Monongahela Navigation Company, in pursuante of E.charter granted them by the State, had
erected a dam in the Monongahela, which flowed back the water on the plaintiff's m.ll, in the Youghiogany, and greatly
inijured it. And it was adjudged by the court, that the Company were not liablh for the consequential injury thus inflicted.
The court, speaking of the rights of plaintiff, consequent on the
license granted by the act, (of .1803,) observe: "That statute
gave riparian owners liberty to erect dams of a particular structure, on navigable streams, without being indictable for a nuisance, and their exercise of it was, consequently, to be attended
with expense and labor. But was this liberty to be perpetual,
and.forever tie up the power of the State ? Or, is not the contrary to be inferred, from the nature of the license ? So far was
the legislature from seeming to abate one jot of the State's
control, that-it barely agreed not to prefer an indictment for a
nuisance, except on the report of viewers to the Quarter Sessions. But the remission of a penalty is not a charter, and the
alleged grant was nothing more than a mi1igation of the penal
law."
The case of the Susquehanna Canal Company v. Wright,
confirms the preceding views, and decides, "that the St .te is
never presumed to have parted with one of its franchises in the
absence of conclusive proof of such an intention. Hence a
license, accorded by a public law to a riparian owner, to erect a
dam on the Susquehanna River, and conduct the water upon his
land for his own private purposes, is subject to any future provision which the State may make, with regard to the navigation
of the river. And if the State authorize a company to construct a canal which impairs the rights of such riparian owner,
he is not entitled to recover damages from the company. In
that case, Wright had erected valuable mills, under a license
granted to him by the legislature; but the court say,-" He was
bound to krtow that the State had power to revoke its license
whenever the paramount interests of the public should require
it. And, in this respect, a grant by a public agent of limited
powers, and bound not to--throw away the interests confided to
it, is different from a gra-nt by an individaal who is master of
the subject. To revoke the latter, after-an expenditure in'the
prosecutioxi of it,- would be a fraud. But he who accepts a

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

license from the legislature, knowing that he is dealing -withan
agent bound by duty not to impair public rights, does so at his
risk; and a voluntary expenditure on the foot of it, gives hirm
no claim to compensation."
The principles asserted and established by these cases, are,
perhaps, s'omewhat peculiar, but, as they affect rights to real
property in the State of Pennsylvania, they must be treated as
binding precedents in this court. It is clear, also, from the application of these principles to the construction of the proviso
under consideration, that it cannot be construed as a grant of
the waters of a public river for private use, or a fee-simple
estate in the usufruct of them, "without diminution or alteration." It contains no direct words-of grant, which would ope
rate by way of estoppel upon the grantor. The dam of Adam
.Hoops was a nuisance when it was made; but, as it did little
injury to the navigation, the commissioners, who were commanded to prostrate other nuisances, were enjoined to tolerate
.this. The mills of Hoops had not been erected on the faith of
a legislative license, as in the ca~es we have quoted, and a total
revocation of it would not be chargeable with the apparent
hardship and injustice which might .be imputed to it in those
cases. His dam continues to be tolerated, and the license of
diverting the water to his mills is still enjoyed, subject to
occasional diminution from the exercise of the superior right
of the sovereign. His interest in the water may b6 said to resemble a right of common, which by custom is subservient to
the right of the lord of the soil; so that the lord may dig claypits, or empower others to do so, without leaving sufficient
herbage on the common. Bateson v. Green, 5 T. R. 411.
Nor can the plaintiff claim by prescription against the public
for more than the act confers on him, which is at best impunity
for a nuisance. His license, or rather toleration, gives him a
good title to keep up his dam and use the waters of the river,
as against every one but the sovereign, and those diverting them
by public authority, for public, uses.
It is true, that the plaintiff's declaration in this case, alleges,
that the waters diverted by defendants' dam and canal are
used for the purpose of mills, and for private emolument. But
as it is not alleged, or pretended, that defendants have taken
more water than was necessary fot the canal, or have constructed
a canal of greater dimensions than they were authorized and
obliged by the charter, to make, this secondary use must be
ponsidered as merely incidental to the main object of their
charter. We do -not, therefore, consider the question before us,
whether the plaintiff might not recover damages against an individual, or private corporation, diverting the water of this river

SUPREME COURT.
Rttndle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

to their injury, for the purpose of private emolument only, with
or without license, or authority of either of its sovereign owners.
The case before us requires us only to decide, that by the laws
of Pennsylvania, the River Delaware is a public, navigable river,
held by its joint sovereigns, in trust, for the public; that riparian
owners of land have no title to the river, cr any right to divert
*itswaters, unless by license from the State. That such license
is revocable, and in subjection to the superior right of the State,
to divert the water for public improvements.
It follows, necessarily, from these conclusions, that, whether
the State of Pennsylvania claim the whole xiver, or acknowledge
the State of New Jersey, as tenant in common, and possessing
equal rights with herself; and whether either State, without
consent of the other, has or has not, a right to .divert the stream,
it will not alter or enlarge the plaintiff's rights. Being a mere
tenant at sufferance to both, as regards the usufruct of the
water, he is not in a cohdition to question the relative rights of
his superiors. If Pennsylvania chooses to acquiesce in this
partition of the waters, for great public improvements, or is
estopped to complain by her own acts, the plaintiff cannot c. mplain, or call upon this court to decide questions between the
two States, which neither of them sees fit to raise.
By the law
of his own State, the plaintiff has no remedy against a corporation authorized to take the whole river for the purpose of
canals or improving the navigation; and his tenure and rights
are the same as regards both the States.
With these views, it will be unnecessary to inquire whether
the compact of 1783, between Pennsylvania and New Jersey,
operated as a revocation of the license or toleration implied
from the proviso of the colonial acts of 1771, as that question
can arise only in case the plaintiffs' dam be indicted as a public
nuisance.
Nor is it necessary to pass any opinion on the question ot
the respective rights of either of these co-terminous States tu
whom this river belongs, to divert its waters, without the consent of the other.
The question raised is not without its difficulties; but being
bound to resolve it by the peculiar laws of Pennsylvania, as
interpreted by her own courts, we cannot say that the court
below has erred in its exposition of them, and therefore affirm
the judgment.
Mr. Justice IcLEAN and Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Mr. Justice CATRON gave a separate opinion; and Mr. Justice CURTIS dissented from the judgment of the court, on
the merits, but not from its en +rtaining jurisdiction.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

"95

Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

The following are the opinions of Mr. Justice CATRON
and Mr. Justice DANIEL.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
My opinion is, and long has been, that the mayor and aldermen of a city corporation, or the president and directors of a
bank, or the president and directors of a railroad company, (and
of other similar corporations,) are the true parties that sue and
are sued as trustees and representatives of the constantly changing stockholders. These are not known to the public, and not
suable in practice, by service of personal notice on them respectively, 'such as the laws of the United States require. If the
president and directors are citizens of the State where the corporation was created, and the other party to the 'suit is a citizen
of a different State, or a subject or citizen of a foreign government, then the courts of the United States can exercise jurisdiction under the third article of the Constitution. In this sense
I understood Letson's case, and assented to it when the decision
was made; and so it is understood now.
If all the real defendant are not within the jurisdiction of
the court, because some of the directors reside beyond it, theft
the act of February 28, 1843, allows the suit to proceed regardless of this fact, for the reasons stated in Litson's case. 2
flox. 597.
If the United States courts could be ousted of jurisdiction,
and citizens of other States and subjects of foreign countries be
forced into the State courts, wvithout the power of election, they
would often be deprived, in great cases, of all benefit contemplated by the Constitution; and, in many cases, be compelled to
submit their rights to judges and juries who are inhabitants of
the cities where the suit must be tried, and to contend with
powerful corporation's, in local courts, where the chances of
impartial justice would be greatly against them; and where no
prudent man would engage with such an antagonist, if he could
help it. State laws, by combining large masses of men under a
corporate name, cannot repeal the Constitution; all corporations
must have trustees and representatives, who are usually citizens of the State where the corppration is created; and these
citizens call be sued, and the corporate property charged by the
suit; nor can the courts allow the constitutional security to be
evaded by unnecessary refinements, without inflicting a deep
injury on the institutions of the country
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
In the opinion of the court, just announced in this cause, I
am unable to concur.
Were the relative rights and interests of the parties to this

SUPREME

COURp.

Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

controversy believed to be regularly before this court, I should
have coincided in the conclusions of the majority; for the reason, that all that is disclosed by the record, either of the traditions or the legislation of the States of Pennsylvania and New
Jersey, shows an equal right or claim on the part of either of
those States to the River Delaware, and to the uses to which
the waters of that river might be applied. From such an equality in each of those States, it would seem regularly to follow,
that no use or enjoyment of the waters of that river could be
invested in the grantees of one of them, to the exclusion of
the like use and enjoyment by the grantees of the other. The
permission, therefore, from Pennsylvania to Adam Hoops, or
his assignees, to apply the waters of the Delaware in the working of his mill, whatever estate or interest it might invest in
such grantee, as against Pennsylvania, could never deprive the
State of New Jersey of her equal privilege of applying the
waters of the same river, either directly, in her corporate capacity, or through her grantee, the Delaware and Raritan Canal
Company. Mly disagreement with my brethren in this case
has its foundation in a reason wholly disconnected with the
merits of the parties. It is deducible from my conviction of
the absence of authority, either here or in the Circuit Court,
to adjudicate this cause; and that it should therefore have been
remanded, with directions for its dismission, for want of jurisdiction.
The record discloses the fact, that the party defendant in the
Circuit Court, and the appellee before this court, is a corporation, styled in the declaration, "a corporation created by the
State of New Jersey." It is important that the style and character of this party litigant, as well as the source and manner
of its existence, be borne in mind, as both are deemed material
in considering the question of the jurisdiction of this court,
and of the Circuit Court. It is important, too, to be remembered, that the question here raised stands wholly unaffected by
any legislation, competent or incompetent, which may have
been attempted in the organization of the courts of the United
States; but depends exclusively upon the construction of the
2d section of the 3d article of the Constitution, which defines
the judicial power of the United States; firs-:, with respect to the
subjects embraced within that power; and, secondly, with respect
to those whose character may give them access, as parties, to
the courts of the United, States. In the second branch of this
definition, we find the following enumeration, as descriptive of
those whose position, as parties, will authorize their pleading or
being impleaded in those courts; and this position is limited to
"controversies to which the United States are a party; contro-

DECEMBER

TERM,

1852.

97

Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

versies between two or more States, - between citizens of different States,- between citizens of the same State, claiming lands
under grants of different States, -and
between the citizens of
a State and foreign citizens or subjects."
Now, it has not been, and will not be, pretended, that this
corporation can, in any sense, be identified with the United
States, or is endowed with the privileges of the latter; or if it
could be, it would clearly be exempted from all liability to be
sued in the Federal courts. Nor is it pretended, that this corporation is a State of this Union; nr, being created by, and situated within, the State of New Jersey, can it be held to be the
citizen or subject of a foreign State. It must be, then, under
that part of the enumeration in the article quoted, which gives
to the courts of the United States jurisdiction in controversies
between citizens of different States, that either the Circuit
Court or this court can take cognizance of the corporation as a
party; and this is, in truth, the sole founoation on which that
cognizance has been assumed, or is attempted to be maintained.
The proposition, then, on which the authority of the Circuit
Court aid of this tribunal is based, is this: The Delaware and
Raritan Canal Company is either a citizen of the United States,
or it is a citizen of the State of New Jersey. This proposition,
startling as its terms may appear, either to the legal or political
apprehension, is undeniably the basio of the jurisdictibn asserted
in this case, and in all others of a similar character, and must
be established, or that jurisdiction wholly fails. Let this proposition be examined a little more closely.
The term citizen -,rnl
be found rarely occurring in the writers
upon English law; those writers. almost universally adopting,
as descriptive of those possessing rights or sustaining obligations, political or social, the term subject, as more suited to their
peculiar local institutions. But, in the writers of other nations, and under systems of polity deemed less liberal than that
of England, we find the term citizeoi familiarly reviving, and
the charatetfr and the rights and duties that term implies, particularly defined. Thus, Vattel, in his 4th book, has a chapter,
(cap. 6th,) the title of which is: '"The concern a nation may
have in the actions of her citizens." A few words from the text
of that chapter will show the apprehension of this author in
reladon to this term.
"Private persons," says he, "who are
members of one nation, may offend and ill-treat the citizens of
another; it remains for us to examine what share a state may
have in the actions of her citizens, and what are the rights and
obligations of sovereigns in that respect." And again: "Whoever uses a citizen ill, indirectly offends the state, which is
bound to protect this citizen." The meaning of 'the term citiVOL. XIV.

9

SUPRE3ME COURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

zen or sitbject, in the apprehension of English jurists, as indicating persons in their natural character, in contradistinction to
artificial or fictitious persons created by ].aw, is further elucidated by those jurists, in their treatises upon the origin and
capacities and objects of those artificial persons designated by
the name of corporations. Thus, Mfr. Justice Blackstone, in
the 18th chapter of his 1st volume, holds this language: "We
have hitherto considered persons in their natural capacities, and
have treated of their rights and daties. Bt, as al Pc-3onal
rights die with the person; and, as the necessary forn. tof investing a series of individuals, one after another, 'with the same
identical rights, would be inconvenient, if not impracticable; it
has been found necessary, when it is for the advantage of the
public to have any particular rights kept on foot and continued,
to constitute artificial persons, who maintain a perpetual suc-'
cession, and enjoy a kind of legal immortality. These artificial
persons are called coiporations."
This same distinguished writer, in the first book of his Commentaries, p. 123, says, "The rights of persons are such as concern and are annexed to the persons of men, and when the
person to whom they are due is regarded, are called simply
rights; but when we consider the person from whom they are
due, they are then denominated, duties," And again, cap. 10th
of the same book, treating of the PEOPLE, he says, "The people
are either aliens, that is, born out of the dominions or allegiance
of the crown; or natives, that is, such as are born within it."
Under our own systems of polity, the term, citizen, implying
the same or similar relations to the government and to society
which appertain to the term, subject, in England, is familiar to
all. Under eithersystem, the term used is designed to apply
to man in his individual character, and to his natural capacities;
to a being, or agent, possessing social and political rights, and
sustaining, social, political, and moral obligations. It is in this
acceptation only, therefore, that the term, citizen, in the article
of the Constitution, can be received and understood. When distributingthe judicial power, that article extends it to controversies between citizens of different States. This must mean the
natural physical beings composing those separate communities,
and can, by no violence of interpretation, be made to signify artificial, incorporeal, theoretical, and invisible creations. A corporation, therefore, being not a natural person, but a mere creature of the mind, invisible and intangible, cannot be a citizen
of a State, or of the United States, and cannot fall within the
ferms or the power of the above-mention-d article, and can
therefore neither plead nor be impleaded in the courts of the
United States. Against this position it may be urged, that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

99

Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

converse thereof has been ruled by this court, and that this matter is no longer open for question. In answer to such an argument, I would reply, that this is a matter involving a construction of the Constitution, and that wherever the construction or
the integrity of that sacred instrument is involved, I can hold
myself trammelled by no precedent or Pumber of precedents.
That instrument is above all precedents; and its integrity every
one is bound to vindicate against any number of precedents, if
believed to trench upon its supremacy. Let us examine into
what this court has pKopounded in reference to its jurisdiction
in cases in which uorporations have been parties; and endeavor
to ascertain the influence that may be claimed for what they
have heretofore ruled in support of such jurisdiction. The first
instance in which this question was brought directly before this
court, was that of the Bank of the United States v. Deveaux,
5 Cranch, 61. An examination of this case will present a
striking instance of the error into which the strongest minds
may be led, whenever they shall depart from the plain, common
acceptation of terms, or from well ascertained truths, for the attainment of conclusions, which the subtlest ingenuity is incompetent to sustain. This criticism upon the decision in the case
of the Bank v. Deveaux, may perhaps be shielded from the
charge of presumptuousness, by a subsequent decision of this
court, hereafter to be mentioned. In the former case, the Bank
of the United States, a corporation created by Congress, was
the party plaintiff, and upon the question of the capacity of
such a party to sue in the courts of the United States, this
court said, in reference to that question, "The jurisdiction of
this court being limited, so far ag. respects the character of the
parties in this particular case, to controversies between citizens
of different States, both parties must be citizens, to come within
the description. That invisible, intangible, and artificial being,
that mere legal entity, a corporation aggregate, is certainly not
a citizen, and consequently cannot sue or be saed in the courts
of the United States, unless the rights of the members in this
respect can be exercised in their cprporate name. If the corporation be considered as a mere facu'ty, and not as a company
of individuals, who, in transacting their business, may use a
legal name, they must be excluded from the courts of the Union."
The court having shown the necessity for citizcnship in both
parties, in order to give juiisdiction; having shown farther, from
the nature of corporations, their absolute incompatibility with
citizenship, attempts some qualification of these indisputable
and clearly stated positions, which, if intelligible at all, must be
taken as wholly subversive of the positions so laid down. After
stating the requisite of citizenship, and showing that a corpo-

100

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

ration cannot be a citizen, "and consequ&ntly that it cannot sue
or be sued-in the courts of the United States," the court goes on
to .add, "unless the rights of the members can be exercised in
their corporate name." Now, it is submitted that it is in this
mode only, viz. in their corporate name, that the rights of the
members can be exercised; that it is this which constitutes the
character, and being, and functions of a corporation. If it is
meant beyond this, that each member, or the separate members,
or a portion of them, can take to themselves the character and
functions of the aggregate and merely legal being, then the
corporation would be dissolved; its unity and perpetuity, the
essential features of its nature, and the great objects of its existence, would be at an end. It would present the anomaly of
a being existing and not existing at the same. time. This
strange and obscure qualification, attempted by the court, of
the clear, legal principles previously announced by them, forms
the introduction to, and apology for, the proceeding, adopted by
them, by which they undertook to adjudicate upon the rights of
the corporation, through the supposed citiz'enship of the individuals interested in that corporation. They assert the powerto
look beyond the corporation, to presume or to ascertain the residence of the individuals composing it, and to model their decision upon that foundation. In other words, they affirm that
in an action at law, the purely legal rights, asserted by one of the
parties upon the record, may be maintained by showing or presuming that these rights are vested in some other person who is
no party to the controversy before them.
Thus stood the decision of the Bank of the United States v.
Deveaux, wholly irreconcilable with correct definition, and a
puzzle to professional apprehension, until it was encountered by
this court, in the decision of the Louisville and Cincinnati
Railroad Company v. Letson, -reported in 2 Howard, 497.
In the latter decision, the court, unable to untie the judicial
entanglement of the Bank and Deveaux, Seem to have applied
to it the sword of the conquerbr; but, unfortunately, in the
blow they have dealt at the ligature which perplexed them,
-they have severed a portion of the temple itself. They have
not only contravened all the known definitions and adjudications with respect to the nature of corporatioirs,.but they have
repudiated the doctrines of the civilians as to what is imported
by the term subject or citizen, and repealed, at the same time,
that restriction in the Constitution which limited the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States to controversies bet'&een
"citizens of different States." They have assertedf that, "a
corporation created by, and transacting business in a State, is to
be deemed an inhabitant of the State, capable of being treated

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

101

Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

as a citizen, for all the purposes of suing and being sued, and
that an averment of the facts of its creation, and the place of
transacting its business, is sufficient to give the circuit courts
jurisdiction.
The first thing which strikes attention, in the position thus
affirmed, is the want of precision and perspicuity in its terms.
The court affirm that a corporation created by, and transacting
business within a State, is to be deemed an inhabitant of that
State. But the article of the Constitution does not make inhabitancy a requisite of the condition of suing or being sued; that
requisite is citizenship. Moreover, although citizenship implies
the right of residence, the latter by no means implies citizenship. Again, it is said that these ccrporations may be treated
as citizens, for the purpose of suing or being sued. Even if
the dstinction here attempted were comprehensible, it would be
a sufficient reply to it, that the Constitution does not, provide
that those who may be treated as citizens, may sue or be sued,
but that the jurisdiction shall be limited to citizens only; citizens in right and in fact. The distinction attempted seems to
be without meaning, for the Constitution or the laws nowhere
define such a being as a quasi citizen, to be called into existence for particular purposes; a being without any of the
attributes of citizenship, but the one for which he may be temporarily and arbitrarily created, and to be dismissed from
existence the moment the particular purposes of his creation
shall have been answered. In a political, or legal sense, none
can be treated or dealt with by the government as citizens,
but those who are citizens in reality. It would follow, then, by
necessary induction, from the argument of the court, that as a
corporation must be treated as a citizen, it must be so treated
to all intents and purposes, because it is a citizen. Each citizen (if not under old governments) certainly does, under our
system of polity, possess the same rights and faculties, and
sustain the same obligations, political, social, and moral, which
appertain to each of his fellow-citizens. As a citizen, then, of
a State, or of the United States, a corporation would be eligible
to the State or Federal legislatures; and if created by either the
State or Federal governments, might, as a native-born citizen,
aspire to the office of President of the United States -- r to
the command of armies, or fleets, in which last example, so fat
as the character of the commander would form a part of it, we
should have the poetical romance of the spectre ship realized in
our Republic. And should this incorporeal and invisible commander not acquit himself in color or in conduct, we might see
him, provided his arrest were practicable, sent to answer his
delinquencies before a court-martial, and subjected to the penal9*

102

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company.

ties of the articles of war. Sir Edward Coke has declared,
that a corporation cannot commit treasoil, felony, or other
crimp; neither is it capable of suffering a traitor's or felon's
punishment; for it is not liable to corporeal penalties -that it
can perform no personal duties, for it cannot take an oath for
the due execution of an office; neither can it be arrested or
committed to prison, for its existence being ideal, no man can
arrest it; neither can it be excommunicated, for it has no soul.
But these doctrines of Lord Coke were founded upon an apprehension of the law now treated as antiquated and obsolete.
His lordship did not anticipate an improvement by which a corpo.-ation could be transformed into a citizen, and by that transformation be given a physical existence, and endowed with soul
and body-too. The incongruities here attempted to be shown
as necessarily deducible from the decisions of the cases of the
Bank of the United States v. Deveaux, and of the Cincinnati and
Louisville Railroad Company v. Letson, afford some illustration
of the effects which must ever follow a, 'departure from the
settled principles of the law. These principles are always
traceable to a wise and deeply founded experience; they are,
therefore, ever consentaneous, and in harmony with themselves
and with reason; and whenever abandoned as guides to the
judicial course, the aberration must lead to bewildering uncertainty and confusion. Conducted by these principles, consecrated both by time and the obedience of sages, I am brought
to the following conclusions: 1st. That by no sound or reasonable interpretation, can a corporation - a mere faculty in law,
be transformed into a citizen, or treated as a citizen. 2d.
That the second section of fhe third article of the Constitution,
investing the courts of the United States with jurisdiction in
controversies between citizens of .different States, cannot be
made to embrace controversies to which corporations and not
citizens are parties; and that the assumption, by those courts, of
-jurisdiction in such cases, must involve a palpable infraction of
the article and section just referred to. 3d. That in the cause
before us, the party defendant in the Circuit Court.having been
a corporation aggregate, created by the State of New Jersey,
the Circuit Court could not properly take cognizance thereof;
and, therefore, this cause should be remanded to the Circuit
Court, with directions that it be dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came onto be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

103

In re Kaine.

District of New Jersey, and was argued by counsel.

On con.

sideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by

this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

IN

RE

Tuos

KAINE, AN ALLEGED FUGITIVE FROM GREAT
BRITAIN.

Under the tenth article of the treaty of 1842. between the United States and Great
Britain, a warrant was issued by a commissioner, at the *instance of the British
Consul, for the apprehension of a person who, it was allegcd, had committed an
assault, with intent to murdr, in Ireland.
The person being arrested, the Commissioner ordered him to be committed, for the
purpose of abiding the order of the President of the United States.
. Aab as corpus was then issued by the Circuit Court of the United States, the Distriet Judge presiding, when, after a hearing, the writ was dismissed, and the prisoner
remanded to custodv.
A petition was then piesented to the Circuit Judge, at his chambers, addressed to the
Justices of the Supreme Court. and praying for a writ of habeas corpus, which was
ret'erred by the Circuit Judge, after a heaiing, to the Justices of the Supreme
Court. in bank, at the commencement of the next term thereof.
At the meeting of the court, a motion was made, with the papers and proeeedings
presented to the Circuit Judge annexed to the petition, for writs of habeas-corpus
and crrtiorarito bring up the defendant and the record from the Circuit Court, for
the purpose of having the decision of that court examined.
The motion was refused; the writs prayed for denied, and the petiion dismissed.

ON the 14th-6f June, 1852, Anthony Barclay, the British Consul at New York, addressed to Samuel R. Betts, Judge of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, and to any commissioners authorized to perform judicial
duties in the matter, a requisition and complaint. It set forth,
that it had been represented to Ir. Barclay. and was beieyed by
him, that one Thomas Kane, or Kaine, or Cain, then of Cooleen,
in Ireland, did, on or about the 5th of April, 1851, fire i. pistol
at oie James Balfe, with intent to murder him; that a warrant
to apprehend him was issued by a justice of the peace, but that
said Kaine had absconded and fled to the United States. The
requisition further stated, that the crime of which he had been
guilty would have justified his apprehension and commitment
if it had been committed within the United States. It then

asked that a warrant for his apprehension -might be issued, to
the end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and considered; and if, on such hearing, the evidence should be deemed

sufficient, that it should be certified to the proper -executive
authority, in order that a warrant might issue for the surrender
of such fugitive, under the treaty between the United States
and Great Britain.

