610

SUPREME COURT.
Deacon v. Oliver et al.

complainants.
affirmed.

The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof
it is now here okdered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed .with costs.

JOHN DEACON, APPELLANT, V. UMARLES OLIVER AND RODERT
M. GIBBES, EXECUTORS OF ROBErhT OLIVER, DECEASED.
Under the attachment laws of Maryland, a share in the Baltimore Mexican Company, which had fitted out an expedition under General Mina, was not, in 1827,
the subject of an attachment under a judgment, whether such share was held by
the garnishee under a power of attorney to collect the proceeds, or under ad equitable assignment to secure a debt.
The answers of the garnishee to interrogatories filed, were literally correct. He had
not in his hands any "funds, evidences of debt, stocks, certificates of stock,"
belonging to the debtor, nor "any acknowledgment by the Mlexican government,"
on which an attachment could be laid.

Tnis wat an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the -District of Maryland, sitting as a court of
equity.
The bill was filed by John Deacon, the -.urviving partner of
Baring, Brother & Company, of London, under the following
circumstances:
In 1821, Baring, Brother & Company obtained a judgment,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, against one Lyde Goodwin for $60,000, upon a bill
of exchange, to be released on payment of $41,005.58, with
interest and costs. Goodwin was 8rt this time the owner of one
ninth share in the M'exican Ccrdpany,' the history of which is
given in the. report of the case of Gill v. Oliver's Executors,
11 How. 529. This judgment was kept alive until the issuing
of the attachment hereafter spoken of, in 1826.
On the 19th of July, 1823, the government of Mexico passed
a decree, declaring that General Mina, amongst other persons,
-was a benefactor of his country; and on the 28th of June, 1824,
another decree, acknowledging the debts contracted by the
Generals declared to have been benefactors.
On the 11th of January, 1825, Lyde Goodwin addressed a

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

611

Deacon v. Oliver et al.

letter to Mr. Oliver, which is too long to be inserted, but which
was of the following tenor. He states the claim to have been
acknowledged by Mexico; that the amount of his original proportion of the claim, exclusive of interest, was twenty thousand
dollars; that his object in proposing to assign his interest therein
was, 1st, to secure to Oliver the sum he already owed him; and
2d, to obtain barely the means of support for 'the present, and
that the additional sum he would acquire, should not exceed
$2,000.
Between this date and June, 1825, Oliver paid to Goodwin
$2,000, and received an assignment of the share -from Brown,
the trustee in insolvency of Goodwin.
On the 22d of March, 1825, the company appointed Oliver
their attorney to prosecute the claim, and informed him that
Goodwin was entitled tu a commission of five per cent. in addition to his one ninth share.
On the 28th of October, 1826, an attachment under the act
of Maryland, of 1715, was issued upon the judgment against
Goodwin, and laid in the hands of Oliver, as garnishee. At the
same time, the following interrogatories were filed, which the
garnishee was required to answer.
Interrogatory 1. Had you, at the time of laying-the attachment in the above cause, in your hands, or at any other time,
and when, any funds, evidences -of debt, stocks, certificates of
stock, belonging to Lyde Goodwin, or any acknowledgment of
acbt due by -the government of Mexico to the said Lyde
Goodwin?
2. Did not the said Lyde Goodwin transfer to you some certificate of stock, or evidence of debt due by the. said- Mexican
government to Goodwin, or some document of that 'character,
and when did such transfer take place?
. 3. Had you not a claim against said Goodwin, secured by a
transfer or pledge of some dertificate of stock, or document of
a public character, showing that Goodwin was entitled to receive some funds from the Mexican government? If so, what
was the amount of your claim so secured, and what was the
security; was, or was not, the balance or remaining credit, under
your control at the time of laying the attachment? State particularly how your claim was secured.
4. Do you know any other matter or thing that may be of
advantage to the plaintiffs, in the above cause? If so, state it
as fully as if you were particularly interrogated thereto.
In December, 1827, Oliver filed the following answers:
1. To the first interrogatory he answers: That he had not, at
the time of laying the attachment in the above dause in his
hands, nor at any other time, any funds, evidences of -debt,

612

SUPREME COURT.
Deacon v. Oliver et al.

stocks, or certificates of stocks, belonging to Lyde Goodwin, or
any acknowledgment of debt due by the government of Mexico,
but that he had a power of.attorney signed by said Lyde Goodwin, in conjunction with several other persons, claimants of a
debt alleged to be owing by the Mexican government, and authorizing him to claim and receive the same for the benefit of
said Goodwin's assignees and others.
2. To the second interrogatory he answers: That the said
Goodwin did not transfer to him any certificates of stock or
evidences of debt due by the Mexican government, or documents of that character, unless the before-rentioned power of
attorney may be called one.
8. To the third interrogatory he answers: That he had, and
still has, a large claim against said Goodwin for money lent hhn
from time to time; that he is not secured for this debt, and never
has been secured, by a transfer or pledge of some certificate of
stock, or document of a public character, showing that Goodwin
was entitled to receive.some funds from the Mexican government, unless the aforesaid power of attoney be deemed such,
kut which he does not admit it to be.
4. To the fourth interrogatory he answers: That he knows
notliing.
On the 10th of January, 1829, the counsel for the Barings
caused the following entry to be made upon the docket, relative
to the attachment: "Discontinued without costs."
On the 30th of May, 1829, Oliver obtained from Goodwin
the following paper:
"Being indebted to Robert Oliver, of Baltimore, upwards of
nine thousand dollars, I hereby.assign, transfer, and make over
to the said Robert Oliver, in payment of my debt to him, the
following objects, which were assigned to him many years ago,
to secure the payment of the said debt due by me, to wit, all
my undivided ninth part, and right, title, and interest of every
kind whatsoever, in the claim on the government of Mexico for
supplies furnished, and advances made, to the late General
Mina, or the proceeds thereof, and whi~h claims are under the
control of the said Robert Oliver and his agent, John Mason,
Jr., now in Mexico; also a claim on a certain Louis Merwin,
who died some years ago in Havana. The object and intention
of this assignment, is to make a full and complete transfer to
the said Robert Oliver of all my right, title, and interest, as
aforesaid, for which said Robert Oliver has agreed to balance
my account on his books, and to consider the same as satis factorily settled; and I hereby authori. and order all my agents,
-orthose holding any powers of atto- ey or instructions from me

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

613

Deacon v. Oliver et al.

relative to the aforesaid property, to account with the- said
Robert Oliver for the same, or the proceeds thereof.
"L. GOODWIN.
"Baltimore, May 30, 1829.

"Witness -JOHN

TaOMAS.

(I I confirm the above agreement.

ROBERT OLIVER."

This claim was prosecuted under the treaty between the
United States and Mexico, with the following result:
On the 11th of April, 1850, there -were paid to Oliver's
executors (he having died in 1834) the following sums, being
net proceeds:
On account of Goodwin's commissions .
"
"
" his share ....
......

.

.

. 22,143.12
. .35,110.47

$57,253.59
In November, 1850, Deacon filed his bill against the exe'eutors, alleging that the answers of Oliver were untrue and
evasive, by means of which deception the attachment had been
discontinued; that at the time when it was laid, Oliver had
under his control the evidences of debt due by the Mexican
government; that so far from having a mere power of attorney
from Goodwin to collect the debt, he had a transfer of the
claim for the purpose of security, which, being irrevocable, was,
by the laws of Maryland, the subject of an attachment, &c.
The executors of Oliver answered, and upon a hearing of the
cause, the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, when the complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by 3r. Davis and 1rtr. Howard, for the appellant, and .1Ir. C'ampbell and .1Ir. Johnson, for the appellees.
As the decision rested mainly -upon one point of the base,
namely, that, at the time of laying the attachment, Oliver had
no interest which was attachable, many of the arguments of
counsel upon other points, are omitted.
The following extract from the brief of Mr. Davis contains
his view of the leading points of the case.
1. That a debt due by a foreign or domestic government is
assignable, passing, by insolvency, to executors oi administrators, and liable for debts of claimant, and liable to all the incidents of other debts, excepting that it cannot be enforced by
suit. Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193, 215, 217; Sheppard v.
Taylor, 5 Pet. 675; Plater v. Scott, 6 Gill & Johns. 116; Gorgier
v. Mieville, 3 Barn. & Cress. 45; 10 E. C. L. IR. 16.
2. That the Court of Appeals of Maryland have deciddd,
VOL. XIV.

52

SUPRE31E COURT.
Deacon v. Oliver et al.

thdt, by the local law, the share of Lyde Goodwin, nbw in controversy, and his commissions, did not pass to his insolvent
trustee in 1817, because then under the ban of the public policy
of the country; but that after the decrees of 19th July, 1823.
and 28th Jurne, 1824, of Mexico, it became a fair and valid
debt, due by the Mexican government, and as such was assignable, and did pass by the'assignment of Goodwin of 1825, and
30th May, 1829.
3. That the Supreme Court have prorounced .the above to
have been the decision of the Court of Appeals; and that being
on a question of local municipal law, not involving any law of
the United States, such decision could not be reviewed by them.
Gill v. Oliver's Ex's, 11 How. 529; Williams v. Oliver's Ex's,
12 Id. 111, 126.
4, That the award of the Mexican commission and the decree
of the Court of Appeals, are conclusive upon Robert Oliver's
representatives and in our favor, of the nature and origin of the
fund, of the validity and assignability qf the funds, and its
liability to all legal incidents of a valid legal claim, from 1824
down to this time. Comegys v. Vasse) 1 'Pet. 212; Sheppard v.
Taylor, 5 Id. 708, 709, 713; Frevall v. Bache, 14 Id. 97; De
Vallingan v. Duffy, Id. 290, 291; Barry v. Patterson, 6 Har. &
Johns. 203, 204.
II. That the assignment of 1825 was a mortgage on the
fund to secure the prior debt of Goodwin to Oliver, and the
$2,000 then advanced; subject to which Goodwin remained
owner of the fund, and Oliver was accountable to him.
1. This appears from Goodwin's letter to Oliver, 11th January, 1825; his receipt, 15th February, 1825; Brown's assignment, 21st March, 1825; and Goodwin's receipt, 24th March,
1825; and the assignment of 30th May, 1829.
The letter did not propose a sale; there was no estimate .of
the value of the claim; Goodwin considered it likely to be
received in a year, and looked oi it at worth $20,000, or more.
His objects he said were- 1st. To secure a debt he then
owedi but if it were a sale for .$2,000, it secured nothing;
2d. To obtain the bare means of support; for the. present. He
then plainly looked to the remainder of the fund as his support
for the future.
-2he additional sum I shall want shall not exceed $2,000,"
is the language of a borrower, and implies. a previous loan now
to be added to. The receipts are, on account of his share, or
interest.
The assignment, signed by Brown, mentions no value given.
It was a mere precaution to preclude a possible claim. The
assignmeht of 1829, May 30, finally, is express and decisive as

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

615

Deacon v. Oliver et al.

to the former assignmept, being for security merely, and itself
purports to assign and relinquish the remaining right of Goodwin. It recites a debt of $9,000; but the answer shows only
$8,500, including the $2,000. So it continued to be a debt, and
so was not a payment on a sale. If it were a sale, then "the
words to secure you the sum I already owe you," must be construed to make that sum a part of the consideration of the sale;
and it also would cease to be a debt. If it were a sale, then
the assignment of 30th May, f829, would not only recite a
falehood, but be an absurdity. It cannot be half sale and half
mortgage; a sale for $2,000 and a mortgage for $6,000.
The assignment of 1825 was therefore a mortgage, agreed by
the act of the parties to be worth $8,000, and considered by
Goodwin worth more than $20,QOO, and likely to be paid in
cash in a year.
2. That such an assignment is in law a mortgage, or security
merely, the following cases prove: 1 Story Eq. Jur. § 1018;
1 Cruise (by Greenleaf) tit. 15, ch. 1; Conway v. Alexander,
7 Cranch, 218, 241; Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489; Morris
.v. Nixon, 1 How. 119, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 130, 131; Dougherty v. McCalgan, 6 Gill & Johns. 275, 280, 281.
;3.That on mortgage, or pledge, or transfer, by way of security, the mortgagor is treated as the substantial owner, subject
to the lien of the creditor. His right to redeem is an incident
inseparable. It may be assigned or pass to his representatives,
or to his insolvent trustee, or in bankruptcy, or a judgment
creditor may claim to stand in his place and to redeem.
This principle applies to securities of chattels as well as of
lands, and to choses in action as well as to either. ' MNorris v.
Nixon, 1 How. 123, 124, 126, 129; 5 Johns. R. 345; 2 Story
Eq. Jur. §§ 1023, 1052; Dougherty v. MIcCalgan, 6 G. & J. 281,
282; Hudson v. Warner & Vance, 2 Har. & G. 415; Hartley
v. Russel, 2 Sim. & Stu. 244; Milne v. Walton, 2 Younge &
Col. 354, 362.
III. That, therefore, Lyde Goodwin retained such a property and interest in the claim on Mexico, after its assignment
to Oliver, as was liable in some way to be subjected to the
payment of his debts by judgment. Being an equitable interest in a chose in action, it could not be subjected to the common-law execution of fie'i facias.
It could then he reached by one of two processes only;
either, 1st, by attachment in thenature of an execution; 2d, by
bill in equity to subject the surplus.
The appellant insists that it could be subjected by either of
those modes, and that the laying the attachment was a fit
preliminary; and that the fraud is the same in either view.

616

SUPRE-ME COURT.
Deacon v. Oliver et al.

I. By execution of attachment.
a. The act of 1716, § 7, gives any judgnent creditor of any
person right, in lieu of any other execution, to sue out an
attachment against the goods, chattels, and credits, of the defendant, in his own hands, or in the hand:s of any other person.
The policy of our law is to subject every species of property
to execution. Somerville v,.
Brown, 5 Gill, 422.
It is an execution. Baldwin v.Wright, 3 Gill, 246.
The attachment was intended to cover every species of property not liable to be taken by ft. fa., and for which, before
plaintiff had been driven into equity to get hold of; and that
it would not lie where a ft. fa., lay. For example .ifa. lay only for chattels held by legal title. 10 G. & J.
226, 261; Harding v. Stevenson, 6 H. & J. 267. Attachment
covers that by equitable title.
Legal estates in land, by the act of 1732, are sold on fi.fa.
Equitable estates, as equities of redemption, by attachment,
but not tofi. fa. Ford v. Philpot, 5 Har. & J. 312; 5 Johns. R.
336.
Goods consigned to merchants who had lien on them were
not liable to fi.fa., but were to attachment. 6 Har. & J1ohns.
267, 268; Nathan v. Giles, 5 Taunt. 558.
The lien of a judgment could not be sold on ft. fia., but the
judgment could be attached, and court could execute it. Wells
v. Ghiselin, 1 Ha. & McH. 91.
Surplus money in sheriff's hands could not be taken onfi.fa.
but might by ,attachment. 1 Ear. & Johns. 546; 5 Ear. &
.Johns. 312.
Attachment lies for a credit or a chose in action, or for stocks,
because they are not liable toi. fa. Evns, Pr. 364.
-But chlkatels in defendant's possession were not liable to at-"
tachment, because they could be taken by ft. fr. 3 Har. &
McH. 594, 615, 616, 617.
Thus the policy of the attachment law was to give a residu.
ary execution, covering every case not before covered. The
words go6ds and-chattels, and lands, covering interests in lailds,
and goods and chattels, which could not be taken byfi.fa and
-credits,- being used to designate every thing in the nature of a
chose in action.
b. The claim on the Mexican government, assigned by Goodwin, was a credit of Goodwin in the hands of Oliver, and so
liable to attachment in his hands.
The statute does not confine the attachment to credits in the
hands of the debtor, buttextends it to the credits of the defendant in the hands of the plaintiff, or any other person.
The most common case is the attaching the credit in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1S52.

617

Deacon v. Oliver et al.

hands of the debtor, or person owing the money to the defendant.
But the act does not define the subject-matter on which the.
attachment may be laid by any reference to the person in whose
hands it may happen to be. The credit is the thing attached;
it may be attached in the hands of the plaintiff, or any other
person.

May, then, a credit be in the hands of any person but the
debtor, who himself directly owes the money to the defendant?
A credit is a right to demand money from some one. It is
equivalent to the legal phrase, a chose in action -a
thing to
be sued for.
Now, a right in A to recover money from B for the use of
C, is matter of every day occurrence.
If D have judgment against C, may he not lay an attachment in the hands of A, who holds a credit or chose in action
against B for the benefit of C, especially if B. be out of the
State ?
2. The modern law recognizes the assignability of choses in
action, operating an actual transfer proprio vigore of the title
of the chose in action, or credit, from the assignor to the assignee, vesting the latter with all the rights of the' former,,the
possession of the evidences, and the right to enforcd the claim,
as effectually as a bargain and a sale of lands. 2 Story, Eq.
Jur. § 1057; Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Peters, 213, 215,217; Spring
vY.S. C. Ins. Co. 8 Wheat. 268; Bohlen v. Cleveland, 5 Mason,
174; Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289, 300, 302; Evans et al.
v. Merriken, 8 G. & J. 39, 46-49; Ex parte South, .3 Swanst.
382, 373; Conrad v. Atlanti6 Ins. Co. 1 Peters, 386,441;" Black
v. Zacharie, 3 How. 483, 512.
As between successive assignments, the fle vests according
to the dates, a former being liable, however, to be postponed to
a later one by failure to notify the person liable to the assignor
in proper time. Anderson v. Tompkins, 1 Brock. 456; Hudson
v. Warner and Vance, 2 H. & G. 415, 418, 427, 432; Houston
v. Nowland, 7 G. & J. 480, 493; Loveridge v. Cooper, 3 Russ.
1; Cooper v. Tynmore, 3 Russ. 60; 3 How. 483, 512.
3. By the assignment of 1825, therefore, the chose in action
or credit belongingto Goodwin, and due by Mexico, was vested
in and held by Oliver for the benefit, of Goodwip, after paying
his debt. He held the evidences, the sole legal right to prosecute and control it, to collect and receipt for it.
To refuse to apply the attachment to such a case, is to withdraw from its reach half the cases it was provided to remedy,
forcing the judgment creditor back into a suit in equity; e. g.
all cases where a credit or chose in acti6n of a judgment debtor

618

SUPREME COURT.
Deacon vr Oliver et al.

is in the hands of any one, except the person ultimately liable
to pay' the money.
A- consignee has sold goods and taken notes of the purchaser, not yet due, to the consignor. The goods could have
been attached -may not their proceeds, in the shape of notes,
in the hands of the consignee, on a judgment against the consignor?
Chattels aud choses in action are assigned in trust, the
debtors living out of reach of process, to sell and pay to A B.
The chattels maybe attached in the hands of the trustee-may
not the bonds and notes be attached, so as to bind the proceeds
when collected?
United States stock is held by a trustee for A B. It is an
obligation to pay money; may the stock -- the right to receive
the money, not merely the quaxterly instalment, be attached;
and, if so, in whose hands but the trustee's?
So stocks of all non-resident corporations will escape execu.
tion, unless they be attachable in any hands holding the certificates for the person entitled to receive the proceeds.
The stock, like the debt, is a credit, the money payable ultimately by one person; but the right to receive it, the title to it,
being in the hands of a third party for the owner, with the evidences on which alone it is payable. It is case of a credit in
the hands of such party, and may be attached there.
The very point has been -decided twice in Massachusetts. N.
-E. VL Ins. Co. v. Chandler, 16 Mass. 274, 279; 6 Mass. 339, 342.
The Masgachusetts law uses the words, "goods, eflcts, and
,credits," equivalent to "goods, chattels, and credits." Attachment laid on goods and notes for collection in the garnishee's
hands. Erskine v. Staley, 12 Leigh, 406.
" Or put the case of a legacy specific, of a note, or chose in action,
where executor is here, and person liable onL the chose in action
beyond process.
c. The attachment was rightly laid in Oliver's- hands, for it
must be laid in the hands of the possessor of the thing attached.
Van Brunt v. Pike & Ward, 4 Gill, 270, 273.
And possession of the evidences, together with the assignment, vests the possession of the chose in action in transferee.
Deare v. Hall, 3 Russ. 1; Farmers' Bank of Delaware v. Beas428, 429; Gardner v. Lochlan, 4 Myl. & Craig,
ton, 7 G. & J..
129, 133; Black'v. Zacharie, 3 How. 483; 612.
That Oliver is. legally chargeable with the possession of the
evidences of debt, since they were under his control, and should
have so .stated it. Morrice v. Livaby, 2 Bevan, 500; AttorneyGeneral v. Bailiff of E. R., 2 Myln. & K. 25; 2 Danl. Ch. Pr.
269, 260; W.obds v. Morsell, 10 , 107

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.-

619

Deacon v. Oliver et al.

d. That the money had not been actually received, was no
obstacle to a judgment of condemnation, with a stay of execution till it should be collected; for the court has power to. modify its judgments and process to suit the exigency of each
case; e. g. where property is subject to a lien, to have it ascertained was to get at the surplus. Davidson's Lessee b.
Beatty, 3 II. & McH. 594;. Pratt v. Law, 9 Cranch, .46,496;
Serg. on Attach. 91, 94; 2 Rawl. 227.
And where laid in the hands of a debtor, on 'a debt iot yet
due, no plea 'of vidl bona is allowed; but condemnation 'is
given, and executidn stayed till debt due. Somerville v. Brown,
5 Gill, 399; Serg. on Attach. 101, 102, 109.
Or where papers detained abroad. 4 Dall. 253; 2 Binney,
453; Serg. on Attach. 145.
So the'court could havie condemned Gobdwin's irtexest, and
either have sold it or evited its collection.
e. That the attachment, by way of execution,.applies to all
judgments, without regard to the residence of the defendant
1 D. L. M. 22, 23; Act 1715, ch. 40.
of the section giving the remedy are
1. The operative words
scope.
of the widest possible
2. The use of the word "absent" before defendant, occurs
only in the last clause of the section requiring notice of the
garnishee.
3. They only create a doubtful implication, which is not sufficient to limit the universality of the enacting words.
4. This section expressly dispenses with the prerequisites prescribed in the 1st and 2d sections, providing for the protection
of dbsent defendants.
5. The 5th section of the act implies, that an attachment-may
be levied on the goods of a resident. (Printed out of place, 1
D. L. AT. 763.)
6
, The oldest forms of attachment, by way, of executions,
apply to residents. 2 Harris Entries, 611; 2 Evans's Harris, 377W
7. The defendant must liave been in the State before judgment could have been recovered; yet 2d section prescribes no,
way to show the removal.
8. The law of 1831, ch. 321, is declaratory, and not binding;
the United States courts ought not to be allowed to raise an
implication, so as to do by construction what it could not do by
enactment.
9. It contravenes the whole purpose and.policy of the attachment, by way of execution.
f. If, therefore, the court think the assignment of 1825, or any
assignment before October, 1826, covered the commissions on
the Mervin claim, they are covered by the above reasoning.

620

SUPREME COURT.
Deacon v. Oliver et al.

But if not, yet Oliver, holding possession of the evidences,
the right to receive the projeeas, and being the party directed
to pay Goodwin, he held Goodwin's claim to the commissions
as agent, sufficiently to make him a fit garnishee, as having that
credit in his hands.
" Though the court doubt as to the commissions and Mervin
debt, that will not affect the mortgage of the share in the company.
This fund could have been reached by bill in equity.
(a.) A bill in equity is competent to ccmpel the application
of the equitable property, the choses in action and equities of
redemption of a judgment debtor which cannot be reached byfi.
fir. to the satisfaction of the judgment. Scott v. Scholly, 8 East,
4 67, 508, 509; Clayton v. Anthony, 6 Rand. 285; Dold v. Geigr, 2 Grat. 112; Halley v. Williams, 1 Leigh, 140; Hadden v.,
Spader, 20 Johns. Rep. 654, 563, 564, 538; 2 Johns. C. C.;
McDermott v. Strong, 4 Johns. C. R, 687, 690, 692; Bayard v.
Hoffman, 4 Johns. C. R. 450; Spader v. Davis, 5 Johns. C. R.
280; Hallett v. Thompson, 5 Page, 583; Griffith v. Fred. County
Bank, 6 Gill & Johns. 424; Harris & Chauncey v. Alcock, 10
Gill & Johns. 251, 252; McDonald v. Bank U. S. 2 Pet. 107.
(b.) An execution is usually required as precedent to suit in
equity.
The attachment was such an execution. Even if no condemnation could have been had under it; yet neither can an
equitable interest in chattels or land be sold under a ft. fa. at
commbn law. But the f.fa, is held to bind them, and a bill
lies in equity to sell them.
So here, the, attachment was the most appropriate form of
execution to bind an interest, in the nature of a credit or chose
in action, as preliminary to a bill in equity, to have it applied
to the'satisfaction of the judgment.
(c.) To this preceeding the facts of the assignment, by way
of mortgage to, and the possession of the evidences by Oliver,
were as essential as to the sustaining of the attachment.
The untrue denials in the answers of Oliver equally misled
the plaintiff to the abandonment of his remedy.
The fraud gives the plaintiff an equal equity now to call on
the court to do him justice by subjecting the fund to his judgment,, after paying Oliver his debt and expenses.
The points raised by the counsel for the appellees were as
follows :
The theory of the bill is, that the appellant had, by the attachment on the judgment of nimself and co-plaintiffs, entitled
himself to condemnation of Goodwin's funds, alleged to be in

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

621

Deacon v. Oliver et al.

Oliver's hands as garnishee, and that Oliver, by his false and
fraudulent answers, having deprived him of his legal right to
such condemnation, equity will compel Oliver's estate to pay
the money which, but for his unconscientious conduct, would
have been recovered at law.
A right to condemnation, th~n, as against Oliver, and the loss
of that right through his fraud and falsehood, are essential, on
the appellant's own showing, to his success.
Neither of these elements are found in the case, as it appears
on pleadings or proofs.
1st. The attachment was issued against law, and would, at
the trial, (which never came on, because the plaintiffs in the
attachment discontinued it,) have been quashed, and is therefore to be regarded as void. Act of Maryland, 1715, chap. 40,
§ 6 ; Waters & Caton, 1 Harris & MeHenry, 407 ; -Harden &
Moores, 7 Harris & Johnson, 4.
2d. The attachment was irregular and void for another reason;
that the act of 1715, (above referred to,) and adopted by the
100th rule of the Circuit Court of Maryland, authorized no
such writ in the case of a resident defendai.t. Act of 1831,
chap. 321.
3d. But conceding the attachment to have been regular, it
could only take the "lands, tenements, goods, chattels, or credits," of Goodwin, in Oliver's hands, (see Writ, 19, 20,) and
there being none of these things in his hands, there was nothing
to attach, and of course nothing to condemn. Houston &
Nowland, 7 Gill & Johnson, 480; Meeker and Wilson, 1 Gallison, 419; Act of Maryland, 1810, chap. 160; Ford & Philpot,
5 Harris & Johnson, 312; Campbell & Morris, 3 Harris &
McHerry, 55; 9 Cranch, 477.
4th. If there was any thing in Oliver's hand at the time of
the attachment, it was only Goodwin's claim on the government of Mexico, for assistance rende, ed to Mina, in his attempt
to revolutionize Mexico when a province of Spain, in violation
of our neutrality acts; and such a claim has been decided by
the Maryland courts, in the case of Goodwin's trustee against
these appellees, to be of such a character that the law of Maryland wiU not recognize its existence, and of course no condemnation could be had of it.
5th. The discontinuance of the attachment was the voluntary
act of the appellant; and as he was not bound by Oliver's answers to the interrogatories in attachment, but might have
tested their truth by bringing the attachment to trial, his failure
to proceed at law gives him no right to come into equity.
6th. Oliver's answers were true. Goodwin's share in the
Mexican Company was assigned to Oliver absolutely in 1825,

SUPREME COURT.
Deacon v. Oliver et al.

and ho interest iherein remained in Goodwin at the time of the
attachment. Goodwin's interest in his commissions and his
claim on Mervin were not assigned to Oliver till May, 1829,
nearly two years after the answers, and at the time of the attachment Oliver had no interest whatever in either of these
claims.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Without attempting to give a history of the facts of this case,
as exhibited in the pleadings and proofs, or noticing all the objections of the equity of the bill, we think there are two of its
charges or allegations, on which its whole equity rests, and
which the complainant has failed to substantlate.
1. That there were in the hands of Robert Oliver at the time
the attachment was laid, any chattels, rights, or credits of Lyde
Goodwin, "which were bound by said attachment."
2. That Robert Oliver was guilty of falsehood or fraudulent
concealment of facts, in his answers to the interrogatories proposed to him as garnishee in the attachment.
In 1816, and previous to his insolvency. Lyde Goodwin had
become a shareholder in the Baltimore Mexican Company, to
the extent of one. ninth part. This company had furnished
means -to General Mina to fit out a warlike expedition against
Mexico, then a dependency of Spain. Th3 expedition of Mina
had failed, and he had perished with it. This transaction of the
company was-illegal, and punishable as a misdemeanor, with fine
and imprisonment. The contract was therefore void in law,
and could not be the foundation of any debt, nor could the
stock thus created be treated in law as a thing of value; and
,from the uncertainty of its future prospects, its value in the
market was little better. It was merely possible that Mexico,
if successful in her struggle for iudependence, might, at some
future day, assume the payment of the debts contracted by Mina,
and if, as it was possible, or perhaps proba'le, that at some day
still further in the future the payment may be obtained. Goodwin's title in this possibility or expectancy, or whatever it might
be called, was supposed to have passed to Brown, his assignee,
under the insolvent act. Afterwards, in -1824, Mexico having
achieved her independence, passed a decree promising to acknowledge "the debts that may be proven to have been contracted for the service of the nation by the Generals declared
bene meritos de la patra," of whom Mina was one. This
renewed the hopes of the company, thai possibly something
might be recovered hereafter on this pledge of the Mexican government; and Robert Oliver was appointed the attorney on the
part of the company to prosecute their claim. Lyde Goodwin

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

623

Deacon v. Oliver et al.

being in actual want of the means of subsistence, persuaded
Robert Oliver to advance him the sum of two thousand dollars,
and take a transfer from Brown, his insolvent' trustee of this
claim, as security.
In this situation of affairs, the attachment of Baring, Brothers
& Co. was served on Robert Oliver, as garnishee of Lyde Goodwin, in 1827. Now it is admitted that Oliver was a creditor of
Lyde Goodwin, and not a debtor. His power of attorney put
him in possession of nothing which could be attached as th
property of Goodwin. The insolvent ssignment was supposed
to have vested Goodwin's interest in this expectancy, in Brown.
If itdid not d3 so, as has since been decided, Oliver had no
title to Goodwin's claim. And if it did, and if Oliver held it
merely as a security for the sum advanced by him, the equitable
assignment taken as such security, was his own; it was but an
instrument to obtain satisfaction for his debt; it conferred nothing but a right in equity. Whether it was valid or invalid, absolute or defeasible, it did not constitute him a debtor of Lyde
Goodwin, or put him in possession of any of his credits or effects, so as to subject him to an attachment as Goodwin's garnishee. It was not till after the death of Robert Oliver, and
more than ten years after the attachment of complainant was
discontinued, that the United States made the Convention of
April, 1839, with Mexico, under which Commissioners were appointed, before whom this claim of the Baltimore Company was
proved, and acknowledged by Mexico as a just debt. Then for
the first time, this uncertain claim or equity, assumed the form
of a credit, and an existence as a legal chose in action. But in
that character it never existed in the hands of Robert Oliver.
If, at the time the attachment was served-on him, the claim of
Lyde Goodwin had existed as a debt due him by a citizen of
Maryland, and Olivei held an equitable transfer either abuolute
or defeasible, it is abundantly evident that the proper person to
be made garnishee in an attachment, would have been the
debtor, not the equitable claimant of the debt. He has but an
equity or a bare right, but whatever it is, it is his own, and his
claim is in hostility both to the plaintiff and defendant in the
attachment.
The whole founaation of the complainant's equity in this bill
rests on ihe averment, that the interest of Lyde Goodwin, whatever it was, in this Mexican claim, "was bound by the attachment laid in the hands of Robert' Oliver, as garnishee." The
Merwin claim not having been assigned till after the attachment
was withdrawn, need not be noticed. The decision of this
point against the averment of the bill, would dispose of the case.
But as we think the -charges made in the bill against Robert

624

SUPREME COURT.
Deacon v. Oliver et al

Oliver, of false and fraudulent concealment, have not been sustained, it is due to the memory of one who always sustained a
high reputation as a merchant and man of honor, to notice this
point.
It must be remembered that the purpose of the interrogatories
was to ascertain whether Oliver had in hi.. hands any credits or
effects of Lyde Goodwin, subject to attachment; and also that
Brown, the insolvent assignee of Goodwin, was supposed tohave had the title to Goodwin's interest vested in him. The
legitimate inquiry was, therefore, not whether Brown had abused
his trust, by selling or mortgaging the trust property for the
benefit of Goodwin; or whether Oliver's claim under the assignee was valid or not. This inquyiry was wholly irrelevant in
the investigation, under the attachment proceeding. Nor was
Oliver bound, in that investigation, to make any disclosure of the
strength or weakness of his own title, which was hostile to that
of the plaintiff. The discovery sought, was not of Oliver's
equities, but of Goodwin's assets. Oliver's answers to the interrogatories were drawn, no doubt, by learned counsel, fully
aware of the nature of the proceedings, and the rights of the
parties under.them. The answers were strictly true to the letter.
The garnishee had not in his hands, "any funds, evidences of
debt, stocks, certificates of stock, belonging to .Lyde Goodwin,
nor any acknowledgment by the Mexican government to said
Lyde Goodwin," on which the attachment could be laid. W"hat
claims or securities he himself had as a creditor of Goodwin,
the plaintiff in that proceeding had no right to inquire, nor was
Oliver bound to answer. If he had nothing which the plaintiff
could attach, it was no fraud on plaintiff. to keep his own counsel, and make no disclosure as to the nature of his own securities.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by fhis
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

