DECEMBER TERM, 1852f

227

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this
court, that the judgment ofthe said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and interest
until the same is paid, at the same rate per annum that similar
judgments bear in the courts of the State of New York.

E. P.

IAMUEL JONES, TRADING UNDER THE FIRM AND
CALKIN AND
STYLE OF E. P. CALKIN AND COMPANYI PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,

v.JA ES H. CocKr.
The State of Texas was admitted into the Union on the 29th of December, 1845, (9
Stat. at Large, 108,) and from that day the laws of the United Staters were extended
over it.
Consequently, on the 30th of Jgnuary, 1846, the revenue laws of Texas were not in
force there, and goods seized for a non-compliance with those laws, were iftegally
seized.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Supreme
Court of Errors and Appeals for the State of Texas, under the
25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Calkin and Company were merchants of the county or Galveston, Texas, and Cocke was collector of Galveston under the
Republic of Texas.
By a joint resolution of Congress, approved on the 1st of
March, 1845, the President of the United States was authorized
to submit one of two alternative propositions to .the Republic
of Texas, as an overture for her admission as a State into the
Union. One of these contemplated the completion of this
measure and the adjustment of its terms, by legislation, and the
other by negotiation. The President selected the former, and
presented to Texas the proposals contained in the first and second
sections of the said resolutions. The first section declared
"that Congress doth consent that the Territory of Texas may be.
erected into a State, to be called the State of Texas, with a
republican form of government, to be adopted by the people of
said Republic, by deputies in convention assembled, with the
consent of the'existing gbvernment, in order that the same may
be admitted as one of the States of this Union."
And the second section declares that this consent, on the
part of the United States, was given upon several conditions,
one of which required the constitrtion, which was to be framed
by the Convention, to be transmitted, with the proper evidences
of its adoption by the people of the said Republic of Texas, to
the President of the Vnited States, to be laid before the Con-

SUPREME COURT.
Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

gress of the Union for its final action, on or before the first day
of January, one thousand eight hundred and forty-six. This
consent, with the conditions on which it was given, was communicated to the Republic of Texas, and ih the course of the
following summer and autumn the people of Texas, by deputies
in Convention assembled, with the consent of the then existing
government, erected it into a new State, with a republican form
of government, as shown by the constitution then adopted by
them for its government, and declared and ordained that they
accepted the proposal contained in the resolutions just spoken
of, and assented to the conditions on which it was made. The
constitution aaopted by thQ people of Texas, with the evidence
of its adoption, and of their acceptance of the proposal made
by Congress, and their assent to the conditions with which it
was accompanied, was laid before Congress at the opening of
the session of 1845-6, and on the 29th of December, 1845, the
Congress of the United States, after taking cognizance of the
acceptance of the proposal and of the conclitions annexed to it
by the people of Texas, and of the constitution adopted by
them, declared that the State of Texas ;shall be one, and is.
hereby declared to be one, of the United States of America," &c.
This constitution of Texas, thus adopted by that State and
laid before Congress, contained, amongst others, the following
prqvisions. By the first section of the twelfth article of the said
"constitution, it was declared that "all process which' shall be
issued in the name of the Republic of Texas, prior to the organization of the State government under this constitution, shall
be as valid as if issued in the name of the State of Texas."
In the second section of the same article it was provided, that
"all criminal prosecutions or penal actions which shall have
arisen prior to the organization of the State government under
this constitution, in any of the courts of the Republic of Texas,
shallbe prosecuted to judgment and execution in the name of
the State," &c. The sixth section contained a provision that
if it should appear, on the second Monday of November, 1845,
from the returns, that a majority of the votes polled of the people of Texas were given for the adoption of the constitution,
the President should make proclamation of that fact, and thenceforth the constitution was ordained and established as the
constitution of the State, to go into operation, and be of force
and effect, from and after the organization of the State government under the said constitution. By section ten, it was declared
"that the laws of this Republic relative to the duties of oflicefs,
both civil and military, of the same, shall remain in full force,
and the duties of their several offices shall be performed in conformity with the. existing laws, until the organization of the

DECEMBER

TERM,

1852.

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

government of the State under this constitution, or untiI the
first day of the meeting of the legislature," &c.
On the same day that Congre'ss declared that Texas shall be
and is hereby declared to be one of the United States, viz. on the
29th of December, 1845, (9 Stat. at Large, 108,) Congress passed
an act extending the laws of the United States over Texas, and
declaring them to have full force and effect within the State.
It provided also for the establishment of a court of the United
States, with its necessary officers. And on the 31st of December, 1845, another law was passed, constituting Texas a collection district, and making Galveston a port of entry.
The Legislature of Texas did not meet, nor was the State
government completely organized under its new constitution,
until the 16th of February, 1846.
On the 30th of January, 1846, Calkin and Company imported
into Galveston, from New Orleans, a large amount of merehandise, principally the growth and manufacture of the United States.
These goods were seized by Cocke, claiming one thousantd
dollars as duty, under the revenue laws of Texas. Calkin and
Company protested against this, and demanded that the goods
should be delivered to them in accordance with an act of Congress of the United States, of the 31st December, 1845, and of
a circular of the Secretary of [the] Treasury of the United
States, of 9th January, 1846, declaring that "vessels and iheir
cargoes arriving in any port of the State of Texas, either from
a foreign port, or a port in any other State or Territory of the
United States, are to be placed on a similar footing with vessels
and their cargoes arriving at ports in any of the States of the
Union."
On the trial of the case in the District Court of the State of
Texas, on the 5th of January, 1847, a judgment was rendered
therein in favor of plaintiffs, restraining the defendant from
claiming any duties on the merchandise, and condemning him
to pay to the plaintiffs the sum of two hundredand-fifty dollars, the damages assessed by the jury, as damages for the
unlawful detention of the merchandise, and the costs of. the
suit. From this judgment a writ of error was prosecuted to
the Supreme Court of Texas, and by that tribunal the judgment
was reversed, and one given in favor of the defendant for the
sum of nine hundred and sixteen dollars, the amount of dutie
unpaid, and the amount of costs expended in and about the suit.
A writ of error brought this judgment up to this court.
The case was argued, in printed arguments, by 31r. 4iles
Taylor, for the plaintiff in error, and ilMr. Harris, for the de-..
fendant in error.
VOL. XIV.

20

SUPREME COURT.
Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

111r. Taylor,after reciting the laws and other proceedings rektive to annexation, cbntinued:
Now it is an undoubted truth; that when a proposition, made
by one party to another, is accepted as made, there is, from the
instant of the acceptance, a valid contract, which from that moment is obligatory upon both, and must, to the full extent of its
provisions, thereafter regulate the respective rights and obligations of the respective parties. Here the proposition was, that
Texas should be admitted a member of the Union, on her compliance with certain terms and conditions. She complied with
the terms and conditions, and accepted the proposition, and the
Congress, in' which the po'wer to admit was vested, admitted
her as a State into the Union, and on the 29th day of December,
1845, declared that she "is one of the United States." Was
she not so ? I believe she was, and that whilst this necessarily
results from the terms of the proposition to admit her into the
Unioni-and of its acceptance, it is further shown by the action
of Texas herself.
Texas regarded the contract for her admission into the Union
as complete, when she had given her assen.it to the proposition
submitted to her in relation to it, and had acceded to the specified conditions. This is at once evident from the fact that
immediately after her assent was given, she called on the Executive of the United States to employ the military force of the
nation to protect her from hostilities threatened by Mexico. I
-have niot the public documents before me, so as to be able to
refer to the precise date of this application. It was made, however, some time .before the meeting of Congress, in the autumn
.of 1845, and was based upon the obligation imposed on the
-hational government by the Constitution, of exercising its
powef to protect every.member of the confederacy from invasion. That this construction given by Te.xas to the effect of
her acceptance of the proposition submitted to her is correct,
cannot be doubted. The contract was complete from the time
of her acceptance. She was entitled, from that moment, to all
-the advantages growing out of it, and was subject to all the
burdens resulting from it, It is true, there was a new state of
things created, not contemplated by the ex-'sting laws, and that
ome action on the part of Congress was necessary to give effect
to the new rights and obligations, and to extend the laws of the
nation over Texas. That was the cLae with respect to the judiciary, the rovenue aystern, the operations of the post-office,
&c. But whilst something was necessary for these purposes on
the pa4 of the Congreis of the United States, there Vas nothing
which waO required to be done- by Texas. The Constitution of
the United 3tate*, and the laws made in pursuance thereof, is

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

231

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

the supreme law of the land, and when Congress exercised the
power delegated to it by the Constitution, on the 29th day of
Decenmber, 1845, by act of Congress, and said that all the laws
of the United States were thereby "declared to extend to and
over, and to have full force and effect within the State of Texas,
admitted at the present session of Congress into the confederacy and Union of the United States," the revenue and other
laws were extended proprio vigore, and not because of any thing
contained in the constitution of Texas, which had just been
adopted, for "the Constitution of the United States, and the
laws made in pursuance thereof," being the supreme law of the
land, if any thing had been contained in the constitution of
Texas, which conflicted with them, it would have been absolutely null and void, and have no more force or effeqt than if
not written.
The pretensions set up by the defendant, in his pretended
capacity of collector, under the authority of the revenue laws
of the late Republic of Texas, are understood to be based on
the 10th section of the twelfth article of the constitution of
Texas, in which it is declared "that the laws of this Republic,
relative to the duties of officers, both civil and military, of the
same, shall remain in full force, and the duties of their several
offices shall be performed in conformity with the existing laws,.
until the organization of the government of the State under this
constitution, or until the first day of the meeting of the legislature"
An attentive consideration of this section, and of the other
sections embraced in the same article of the constitution of
Texas, will, I think, make it apparvnt that no such consequence
as that now contended for, was contemplated, 6r could legitimately flow from it. The different sections contained in that
article were designed to provide for the transition from, an independent government to one adapted to the new order of things,
and were not intended or designed to limit or restrain the rightful authority of the Constitution or laws of the United States,
within the territory of Texas, or to fix a time when the independent authority of Texas should yield and give place to the
national authority of the United States. By the first section
of this article, it was declared, that "all process that should be
issued in the name of the Republic of Texas, prior to the organization of the State government under the constitution,
should be as valid as if issued in the name of the State of
Texas." The second section piovided, "that all criminal prosecutions or penal actions" which should have arisen prior to the
organization of the State government under the constitution, in
any of the courts of the Republic of Texas, should "be prosecuted to judgment and execution in the name of the State," &c.

2,32

SUPREME

COURT.

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

The sixth section directed, that "if it should appear on the
second Monday of November, 1845, from the returns, that a
majority-of the votes polled of the people of Texas, were given
for the adoption of the constitution, the President should make
proclamation of that fact, and thenceforth the constitution was
ordained and established as the constitution of the State, to go
into operation and be of force and effect from and after the
organization of the State government uiider the constitution.
And then in the tenth section of the same article, is found the
provision before recited, to the effect that the laws of the Republic relative to the duties of officers, both civil and military, of
,the same, should remain in full force, and the duties of the seve"ral offices be performed "in conformity with the existing laws,
until the organization of the government of the State," under the
constitution, or "until the first day of the meeing of the legislature," &c.
. These various provisions were introduced into the constitution of Texas, not, as- I before remarked, to bind or restrain the
rightful authority of the Constitution and laws of the United
States within the territory of Texas, or fix a time when the
independent authorities of Texas should yield to and give place
'to the national authorities of the .United States, but to obviate
the inconveniences which might otherwise have grown out of
the change from one constitution to another. Ift the absence
of any declaration to the contrary, it cannot be presumed that
any limitation or condition, on the contract just completed by
their formal assent, was intended by these general expressions,
because full effect can be given to them without adopting such
a .c6nstruction. But if it were otherwise, and it were the design
of. the people of Texas to impose such a limitation, the provision would have produced no such effect. If Texas ever has
been an integral part of the Union, she was so kvhen Congress
declared her to be so, on the 29th day of December, 1845, after
her acceptance of the proposition sLbmitted to her in relation
to it. If she were so at-that time for any purpose, she was so
for all purposes-; "and then it would of necessity follow, that as
the Constitution of the United States, and the laws adopted
under its authority, are the supreme laws of the land, the constitutiori and laws of the Republic of Texas, wherever they
conflicted with them, -were at once abrogated, and that the
people of' Texag could not at any future time give validity or
binding force to any new constitutional or legal provision which
conflicted with it.
Mhfr. -aris,for the defendant in error..
It i, obvious that the main question presented by the record

DECE3BER

TERM,

1852.

233

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

is, whether Texas was annexed to the United States, on the
26th of December, 1845, or on the 16th of February, 1846; and,
as a consequence, at which of these periods the right of the late
Republic to collect import duties terminated. It is contended
by the plaintiffs, that this right ceased on the 29th of December, 1845, when the joint resolution of Congress -vas passed for
the admissibn of Texas as one of the States of the Union;
while it is contended, on the part of the defendant, that it did
not cease until the 16th day of February, 1846, the day on
which the State government was organized.
For the settlement of this question, resort must be mainly
had to the terms of the joint resolution "for the annexation of
Texas," &c., approved March 1, 1845; to those of the constitution of the State of Texas, and of the joint resolution of the
29th of December, mentioned above.
It is submitted that the first of these amounts to nothing
-more than a proposition, on the part of Congress, for.the annexation of Texas, and this resolution may be said to be only preliminary to that object. The first and second sections, it is
contended, clearly show that it was not the intention of Congress to concede to Texas the power to consummate annexa.
tion by any act of her own; for it provides that the constitution of the proposed State, "with the proper evidence -of its
adoption by the people of the said Republic of Texas, shall be
transmitted to the President of the United States, to be laid
before Congress, for its final actioli, on or before the first day of
January, one thousand eight hundred and forty-aix." This isentirely consistent with the preamble of th" joint resolution
"for the admission of the State of Texas into the Union."
The last section of the constitution of Texas, provides that
"the ordinance passed by the convention on the fourth day of
July, assenting to the overtures for the annexation of Texas to
the United States, shall be attached to the constitution, 6nd
form a part of the same." They were transmitted to the President, to be laid before Congress together, and the meaning of
the ordinance was restrained and limited, not only by the intention of the first joint resolution, but also by the spirit and.
terms of the constitution itself.
This constitution, cofitaining the conditions upon Which
Texas consented to be annexed, and having beeii accepted by
Congress, must, with all its terms and conditions, be regarded
as a part of the contract, or treaty of annexation. It having
been adopted by Congress, it is supposed that its provisions
became a portion of the laws of the United States, and that
the constitution of Texas, and the joint resolution of the 29th
of December, 1845, should be taken and construed together.
20*

SUPREME

COURT.

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

Under this view, attention is most respectfully invited to several
alticles of that instrument.
The first section of the 12th article of the constitution provides, that "all process which shall be iisued in the name of
the Republic of Texas, prior to the organization of the State
government under this constitution, shall le as valid as if issued
in the name of the State of Texas." In the second section, it
is provided, "that all criminal *prosecutions, or penal actions,
which shall have arisen prior to the organization of the State
government, under this constitution, in any of the courts of the
Rephblic of Texas, shall be prosecuted to judgment and execution, in the name of the State," &c. The sixth section, under
the same article, among other things, provides, that if the constitution be adopted by the people, it shall "go into operation,
and be of force and effect, from and after "the organization of
the State government, under said constitution," &c.
By the 10th section it is declared, "that the laws of the
Republic relative to the duties of officers, both civil and railltary, of the same, shall remain in full force, and the duties of
their several offices shall be performed in conformity with the
existing laws until the organization of the government of the
State under this constitution, or until the fi:st day of the meeting
of the legislature."
It is most respectfully submitted, that these provisions furnish
cumulative and convincing evidence, that the people of Texas
(one of the contracting parties) intended and stipulated that the
government of the Republic of Texas and all its laws should
remain in full force until the 16th of February, 1846, "the first
day of the meeting of the legislature." It is also submitted, that
the other party, by accepting this constitution, became bound
by all its terms and stipulations, as portions of the contract of
annexation.
For the convenience of the argument, it may be supposed
that Texas proposed to be annexed. upon the teims and conditions contained in her State constitution, and that this proposition was accepted by 'the government of the United States.
Had such been- the case, it is easy to see that the eflbet of the
contract would not be changed. If it had been so consummated, it is equally obvious that no diversity of opinion would
have arisc n in regard to its construction.
Then the condition, that the .sovefeignty and laws of the
Republic should remain unimpaired until the 16th of February,
1846, was proposed by Texas and assented to by Congress.
It may be further remarked, tLat Congress nust have understood this to be one of the stipulations of the- contract. By
xeference to the act of Congress, of the 29th of May, 1846, (see

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

235

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

acts of 1845, '46, page 23,) it will be seen, that the 3d section
provides that the Postmaster-General was not authorized to pay
the expenses incurred for carrying the mail in Texas, prior
to the 16th of February, 1846. When the contract of annexation was one and indivisible, was it the intention of Congress
to receive its benefits from the 29th of December, 1845, and to
postpone its burdens to the 16th of February, 1846?
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of ihe court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Texas. The suit was originally brought by the plaintiffs in
error before the District Court of Galveston county, to recover
the possession of a stock of goods from the defendant, who had
seized fhein at Galveston, as collector of that port under the
authority of the Republic of Texas, for non-payment of duties
They recovered a judgment in that court; but, on a writ of
error from the Supreme Court, the judgment was reversed, and
the goods held liable to the duties.
The case was this: The plaintiffs shipped from New Orleans
into Galveston the stock of goods, on the 30th January, 1846,
and the defendant, claiming to act as collector under the Republic of Texas, and also that the revenue laws of that government
were then in force, charged them with 'a rate of duty in conformity with those laws, and for the non-payment by the plaintiffs, they insisting that the goods were not liable to any rate of
duty since the admission of Texas into the Union, he seized and
took possession of, and detained thenm, until they were redelivered to the plaintiffs, by the order of the District Court.
The question in the case is, whether the revenue laws of this
government were in force in the State of Texas at the date of
the importation, or those of the formrner government of that
country. The Supreme Court held th6 latter were in force, and
charged the goods with the customary duties.
The State of Texas was admitted into the Union on the
29th December, 1845, on an equal footing with the original
States, in all respects whatever. 9 Stat. at Large, p. 108. And
by the 1st section of an act of Congress, passed the same day,
all the laws of the United States were declared to be extended
over, and to have full force and effect within, the State. And,
by the 2d section, the State was declared to constitute one judicial district, called the District of Texas, for which a judge
should be appointed, and should hold the first term of his court
at Galyeston, on the first Monday of February then next. Tlie
remaining part of the section cbnfers upon the court the usual
powers belonging to a district court, and also of a circuit court
of the United States. The 3d section provides for the appoint.

236

SUPREME

COURT.

Calkin and Company v.

Cocke.

ment of- a district attorney, and marshal for the district, and for
a clerk of the court. Id. p. 1, 2.
On the 31st December, 1845, the next day after the admission
:nto the Union, Congress passed an act declaring the State to
be one collection district, and making the city of Galveston a
pprt of entry, and to which was annexed several other places,
as ports of delivery. The 2d section provides for the appointment of a collector for the port of Galveston, and the ,3d section for the appointment of a surveyor for each port of delivery.
Now it is quite apparent, from the joint resolution of Congress, admitting the State of Texas intc the Union, and the
acts passed, organizing the Federal courts and revenue system
over it, that the old system of government, so far as it conflicted
with the federal authority, became abrogated immediately on
her admission as a State. This is clearly so, unless some provision is found in the act of admission postponing the time
when it shall take effect, and, as applied to the case before us,
postponing it until after the 31st January, 1846, when these
goods were shipped to the port of Galveston.
This has been attempted on the part of the defendant in
error.
We have been referred to the 1st section of the 13th article
of the constitution of Texas, which provides, "that all process
which shall be issued in the name of the Republic of Texas, prior
to the organization of the State government under this constitution, shall be as valid as if issued in the name of the State
of Texas." And also to the 2d section of the same article,
which provides that "all criminal prosecutions or penal actions,
which shll have arisen prior to the organization of the State
government under this constitution, in any of the courts of the
Republic, shall be prosecuted to judgment and execution in
the name of the State." And also, to the 6th section, which
provides, upon its appearing that a majority of the votes of
the people given is for the adoption of the constitution, "it
shall be the duty of the President (of the ]Republic of Texas) to
make proclamation of the fact, and thenceforth this constitution
shall* be ordained and established as the constitution of the
State, to go into operation, and be of force and effect, from and
after the organization of the State government." And also, to
the 10th section, which declares, "that the laws of the Republic,
relative to the duties of officers, both civil and military, of the
same, shall remain iii full force, and the duties of the several
o6ffices shall be performed in conformity with the existing laws,
.ntil the organization of the governmmirnt of th6 State under
this constitution, or until the first day of the meeting of the legislature."

DECEMBER

TERM, 1852.

237

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

It is supposed, that these several provisions of the constitution of Texas, and which is the one accepted, when she was admitted into the Union by Congress, have the effect to postpone
and fix the period of admission to the time of the first meeting
of the legislature of the State and organization of the governinent under the constitution, which was on the 16th February,
1846; and, of course, to postpone the operation of the laws of
the Union over her till that period.
But the obvious answer to this view is, that these several provisions in the constitution were designed and intended, and had
the effect, to organize a government at once, pn the adoption of
the constitution by the people, and thereby to avoid an interregnum between the abrogation of the old and the erection of the
new system, and until the legislative body could .meet, and put
the government in operation in conformity with the requirements
of the organic law.
The whole of the 10th section, a 'part of which has been
already referred to, affords an illustration of the design of the
framers of the constitution. It is as follows: " That no inconvenience may result from the change of government, it is declared, that the laws of the Republic, relative to the duties of
officers, both civil, and military, of the same, shall remain in full
force, and the duties of the several'offices shall be performed in
conformity with existing laws, ua1 til the organization of the government of the State under this constitution, or until the first
day of the meeting of the legislature." This section, taken in
connection with the 3d section of the same article, completed
an organization which effectually prevented any interval between
the old and new systems, when the laws did not operate, or an
organized government was not in force. That section provides,
that "all laws and parts of laws, now in force in the Republic of
Texas, which are not repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, the joint resolutions for annexing Texas to the
United States, or to the pro visions of this constitution, shall
remain in force, as the laws of this State, until they expire by
their own limitation or repealed by the legislature.
This section, as it will be seen, also negatives the idea, mat
the Constitution and laws of the Union were not in force within
the State as soon. as her admi;sion into the Union took place.
This subject was very fully considered in Benner et al. v.
Porter, (9 ]Aow. 235,) which involved an inquiry into the affect
of the admission of Floida into the Union as a State. Som6
of the questions there were very similar to those raised in this
case, as the machinery of the territorial government had been
adopted by an ordinance in the constitution until the organization was effected under*the constitution by the legislature.

SUPREME

C'OURT.

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

We there said, "that, on the admission of Florida as a State
into the Union, the organization of the government under the
new constitution became complete; as every department became filled, at once, by the adoption of the territorial laws, and
the appointment of the territorial functionaries for the time being." That "the convention being the fountain of all political
power, from which flowed that embodied in the organic law,
were, of course competent to prescribe the laws and appoint
the officers under the constitution, by means whereof the government could be put into immediate operation, and thus avoid
an interregnum that must have intervened, if left to an organization according to the provisions of that instrument, This
was accomplished in a few lines, adopting the machinery of the
territorial government for the time being, and until superseded
by the agency and'authority of the constitution itself."
An argument is attempted to be drawn against the conclusi n
that the laws of the Union were extended over Texas as soon
as she was admitted into it, founded upon certain acts of Congress concerning the establishment and regulation of the postoffice system over the State. On the 6th February, 1846, various post routes were established in Texas, and the PostmasterGeneral was authorized to contract for conveying the mail on
them as soon as could be conveniently done, after the passage
of the act. A joint resolution was also passed on the 20th
May, 1846, authorizing the Postmaster-General to continue the
mail servite existing in the State under the laws and authority
of Texas, or such part as, in his judgment, the public interest
required, from the time that Texas became a Stajte in the Union,
and until contracts could be made, and the mail service put in
operation on post routes established by Congress at its then session. And on the 29th of the same month, another act was
passed establishing several post routes, and repealing the act of
the 6th February, referred to. The second section of this act
authorizes the Postmaster-General to continue in operation the
existing mail service in Texas, established under its former laws,
upon any of the routes mentioned, as he -may deem expedient,
not to extend, ,however, beyond the 30th June, 1850. And the
third section provides for the payment of mail contractors in
Texas for service performed by them since the 16th February,
1846, and also, the officers employed in superintending the mail
service, with a proviso, that such payment shall in no case exceed the Compensation agreed upon with the late authorities of
Texas. The act then provides, that the several postmasters in
Texas, appointed by the late government, shall account to the
Postmaster-General for all balances accruing at their offices
respectively, after the 16th February, 1846.

DECEMBER TERM,. 1852.

239

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

We perceive nothing in these several acts expressing or
implying that Congress possessed no power to extend the system
of mail service over the State from the time of its admission
into the Union, or that the date of the admission is to be limited
to the 16th February, 1846.
There was necessarily some delay in putting the system into
practical operation; and to avoid any inconvenience in the
mean time, the existing system under the laws of the former
government was recognized and adopted, until the several post
routes were designated by Congress, and contracts made for the
performance of, the service in the u-sual way. The period fixed
when the payment of the old contractors and superintendents
of the service should commence; and, also, when the existing
postmast( rs should begin to account to the Postmaster-General
for the money collected, and the allowance of compensation, to
wit, the 16th February, 1846, relate simply to the arrangement
as to compensation; and as to the adjustment of the accounts
of these several officers. The system, as established under the
Republic of Texas, was recogniized, and not interfered with- in
the adjustment down to the period mentioned; after that it was
placed under the laws and regulations of the Post-Office Department of the general government.
That these acts do not admit the want of powers in Congress
to extend the post-office laws over Texas until the 16th of February, 1846, is shown by the act passed the 5th of that month,
design4ting several post routes, and conferring the power upon
the Postmaster-General to enter into contracts for conveying the
mail over them. This act continued in force until repealed on
the 29th of May following, when a new and somewhat different
arrangement of mail routes was provided for.
Without pursuing the case farther, our opinion is, that the
admission of Texas into the Union is to take date from the 29th
of December, 1845, the time of its admission b'y Congress, and
that the laws of the Union extended over it from that time ;,and,
consequently, the seizure of the stock of goods in question by
the defendant under the revenue laws of the Republic, on the
30th of January, 1846, was without authority of law.
The judgment of the Supreme Court below, must therefore
be reversed with costs; and that thi proceedings be remitted to
that court with directions that the judgment of the District
Court be affirmed with costs in Supreme Court and District
Court.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record frorm' the Supreme Court of Errors and Appeals for the

240

SUPREME COURT.
Downey v. Hicks.

State of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that
the judgment of the said Supreme Court of Errors and Appeals
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Supreme Court of Errors and Appeals, with directions to affirm
the judgment of the District Court for the county of Galveston
in said cause, with costs in said Supreme and District Courts.

JAMES W.

DOWNEY,

EXECUTOR

OF

SAMUEL

S.

DOWNEY, DE-

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MARY IN. HICKS, EXECUTRIX OF JOSEPH T. HIcKs, DECEASED.

CEASED,

Where the declaration, in an action of assumpsit, contained the following counts:1. On a promissory note; 2. LindebLitatus assumpsit for the hire of slaves; 3. An
account stated; 4. Quantwn vaabat for the services of slaves; 5. Wor and labor,
goods sold and delivered, and money lent and advanced ; 6. foney had and received; 7. An account stated; 8: A special agreement for the hire of slaves" And
the defendant pleaded.- I. The general issue; 2. Stztute of limitations; 3. Payment;-and the jury found a verdict for "the defendant upor th tissue joined as to
the within note of four hundred and fifty-six dollars, and the xhiin aecount"-this
verdict, although informal, was sufficient to authorize to enter a general judgment
for the defendant.
An objection cannot be made in this court to a release under which a witaess was
sworn, unless the objection was made in the court belov, and an exception taken.
Where a certificate'of deposit in a bank, payable at a futare day, was handed over by
a debtor to his credito; it was no payment, unless there was an express agreement
on the part of the creditor, to receive it as such; and the question, whether there
was or was not such an agreement, was one of fact to be decided by the jury.
The bank being insolvent when the certificate of depot it becariie due. there was no
ground for imputing negligence in the collection of th.- debt by the holder, as no
loss occurred to the original debtor.
If the evidence showed that, after the maturity of the certificate, the driginal debtor
admitted his liability to make it good, the jury should have been .,istrncted that
this evidence cohduced to prove that the certificate was not taken in payment.

Mr. Chief Justice Taney did not sit in this cause.
THIS case was brought up, by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
There were three bills of exceptions taken upon the trial in
the Circuit Court, which extended over moie than one hundred
pages of the printed record. The last one included the whole
of the evidence. The substance of the case is given in the
opinion of the court, to which the reporter refers the reader.
It was argued by Mr. Badger,with whom was Mr.William
A. Grahamjfor the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Volney B. Howard,
with whom was Mr. Walker, for the defendant in error.
The'argument of the counsel for the plaintiff in error, was so

