50-

SUPREME COURT.
Bosley et al. v. Bosley's Executrix.

to the said Cunningham, on his paying or tendering to them
the minimum price of the public land, with interest from tl
sixth of June, 1838, the time the above entries were made, to
one half of the above quarter section, by east and west, or n6rth
arid south lines, so as to include his improvement on the quarter
section, or, if such a division cannot be made, that they convey
to him, as aforesaid, a joint interest of one half in the quarter
section.
And the court order that ne decree shall in no respect affect
any right which may or does exist, under the New Madrid locations, in the defendants or other persos, if any there be.
Order.
This -cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, thalt the
dcree of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Supreme Court, for,
further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the opinion
of this court.

MARY LUCINDA BOSLEY, HENRY BOSLEY, MARY JANE DAVIS,
SALLY 'ANN DAVIS, JAMES BOSLEY AND MELDRID BOSLEY,
(INFANTS,) BY THEIR GUARDIAN AND NEXT FtIIEND JOHN BosLEY, AND JOHN BOSLEY SON OF THE SA:(D.JOHN, V. IMIARGA-

RET E' WYATT, EXECUTRIX OF ELIZABETH

N.

BOSLEY,

DE-

CEASED.
James Bosaiy, in his will, after sundry specific devises and bequests, devised and bequeathed all his lands and other real estate in Baltimore, Cecil, and Alleghany
counties, in Maryland, and also in Florida, and his house and lot in Santa Croix,
and. all the real estate he might have elsewhere, to his wife Elizabeth, her heirs and
assigns, in trust to sell the same and divide the net pro.eeds thereof, with all the
residue of his estate, equally between herself and the children of his brother.
After making his will, he sold all of the lands, particularly mentioned in the residuary
clause of the will above stated, except some lands lying in Baltimore county. At
the time of making the codicil hereafter-mentioned, he held some of the proceeds
of these sales in bonds and other securities, and vith the residue had purchased
other property.
He afterwards made a codhil, by which he devised his summer residence, in Baltimore
county, to his wife, and also the securities he held for the lands sold in Cecil county,
and directed all the property he had acquired after the date of his will to be sold,
and the proceeds to be qually dividbd between his wifa and her sister Margaret.
Then followed a residuary clause in the following words:

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

391

Bosley et al. v. Bosley's Executrix.
"Lastly, my pew in St. Paul's Church and all my other property, real or personal,
and all monev in bank belonging to me at the time of my decease, I give, devise
and bequcathe unto my said wife Elizabeth and her heirs forever; and 1 ratify and
confirm my said last will in every thing except where the same is hereby revoked
and altered as aforesaid."
The residuary clause in this codicil is inconsistent with that in the will, and consequently rev'okes it. But the devise of the property, specifically mentioned in the
will, is not revoked by the clause in the codicil.
After the execution of the codicil, the testator agreed to lease some land for the term
of ninety-nine years, renewable forever, a ground rent being reserved upon th6 same.
The lcssee was to pay cash for a part; and the residue of the purchase-money was
to remain on interest, as ground rent, which the lessee could extinguish at any time
by the payment of the principal sum.
This property was a part of that which was specifically mentioned in the will, and not
revoked by the clause in. the codicil.
But the conduct of the testator, in making this agreement so altered the condition of
the property that it amounted to a revocation of the devise, and Wanifests an intention on his part, when taken in connection with other circumstances of the case, to
give it to his wife under the residuary clause in the codicil.
THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the District of Maryland.
The bill was filed by the plaintiffs in error, who were the
children of Dr. John Bosley, mentioned in the will of James
Bosley.
That part of the will which gave occasion to the controversy
is stated in the opinion, as are also the material facts in the
case.
The Circuit Court decided that the residuary devise in the
will was revoked by the residuary clause in the codicil; that the
devise of the property, specifically mentioned in tie will, was not
revoked by the clause in the codicil, and ordered an account to
be taken of such part as remained subject to the trust, one half
of the proceeds whereof to be paid over to the complainants;
and that the tpstator's agreement, made after the date of the
will and the codicil, to lease a part of that real estate for a term
of ninety-nine years- the principal sum payable at the option
of the lessee, operated to revoke the'devise as to that part.
From this decree, the complainants appealed to -this court.
It was argued by .1. Mllayer, for the appellants, and .1r.
Ctrnpbell and 1.'r. ohnson, for the appellees.

1r'. Mayer, for the appellants, made the following points.
1.- The final clause of the codicil institutes no new 1 siduary
devisee and legatee; and the words supposed to effect that, are
not the appropriate, nor any constructive phrase, for a residuary
dispositio i in a will; and those words (which are, " all other
my property, real -or personal,") must be construed either-

1st,

to comprise all property "other" than the pew, and so to purport to annul all devises and bequests of will and codicil,

-

892

SUPREME

COURT.

Bosley et al. v. -Bosley's Executrix.

except those in favor of Mrs. Bosley; which result must condemn 'the paragraph as incongruous and absurd; br, 2dly, to
point to only property ejusden generis with the pew, and with
tbg real property just.in a preceding clause given to Mrs. Bosley and Miss Noel, and being the acquisitions subsequent to the
date of the will; or, 3dly, must be rejected altogether as incapable of any consistent or reasonable application; or, as militating against the general intent of the testator, of dedicating
his estate (with but small'exceptions) t6 the children of John
Bosley, and to Mrs. Bosley. 3 P. Wms. 112; 3 At . 61; 3
My. & Cr. 661; 1 Eq. Ca. Abr. 301; pl. 14; 1 Bro. 0.C. 127,
39; 1 Russ. 146; 2 Atk. 113; 1 Jarman, 395, '9, 417; Greenl.
Cruise [Devises] 133 and note to ch. 8, ยง39; 6 Watts, 192; 3
Peters, 117, 118; 11 Gill & J. 206; 2 Paige, 22,; 8 Mass. 3;
11 Ed. 528; 22 Maine, 257, 413; 4 B. & Cres. 620; 2 Wins.
.x'r., 7"Q 790,; 6 Peters, 83, 84; 5 Ves. 247; 10 Wheat. 239;
13 Peters, 173; 5 Ves. Jr. 247; 21 E. C. L. 352; 1 Jarman, 594,
595, 596.
2. The paragraph acverted to, is no r3siduary disposition;
because, a specific bequest follows it tc Mrs. Bosley, which
would be utterly needless and idle, if it were preceded by the
supposed all-comprehending residuary appropriation. 13 Ves.
Jr. 39; 1 Russ. 149 ; 3 Atk. 61; 1 Jarman, 595, 598, 599, 600.
3. There is, by those words, no revocation of thM residuary
devise and bequest of the will, because, the codicil, in erms
following those woids, confirms the will, except where the same
is (by the codicil) "revoked and altered." The testator intro.
duces several express rev"cations into his codicil; and to only
those revocations must he be understood to refer - and to modifications, by name of "alterations," of his will -for any interferences -with ,the will, as meant to be revoked, or affecte- by
the codicil. If the words in question touch at all the residfiary
disposition of the will, they must affect it only as a revocation; and, leaving out of view mere modifications, or "alterations," the inquiry is, what revocation the testator meant should
trench upon the broad confirmation -his codicil gives to the
will, thus declared as of continuing force? The will speaks
anew frpm the date of the codicil, even without any confirmatory reference to it in the codicil, and the two acts are thus
intimately allied; and any revocation of any part of the will,
imputed. tq the codicil, must, be by wcfds as precise and unequivocal, and positive, as are the terms of the digpositions supposed to be revoked.
The testator has given his own limitation to the effect of his
"alterings" "'of his will, or of any estat6 'disposed of .by it, by
declaring, in the codicil, that where Mrs. Bosley, (under the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.:
Bosley et al. v. Bosley's Executrix.

clause next to the last,) shall "alter" any estate, it shall nevertheless take the course prescribed in the will, and that "alteration" is not, in his view, and by the law of his will, the same
as revocation; and he thus precludes the idea that he had in
view any revocations but those he had expressly declared in the
codicil. -3 Mason, 486; 10 B. & Cres. 895, (21 E. C. L. 192);
3 Pick. 216; 5 Johns. C. R. 534; 1 Wins. Ex'rs, 114, 116 ; ,21
Brig. C. L. R. 352; 4 Kent, 531; 8 Cowen, 58; 1 Jarman, 189,
395; 2 How. Rep: 580.
4. The will and codicil being thus blended and co6perative, the codicil avails as a republication of the will, except
where such an inference at law is, by the express terms or necessary construction of the codicil, excluded. The will, in this
relation to the codicil, is to be treated as if inserted ir; the,
codicil. If so, if even there be those contradictory residuary
dispositions, the residuary estate must, as modern adjudications
now deal with such contrariant clauses, be shared by the parties
named or embraced in both clauses. This construction would
virtually restore the residuary clause of the will, as the only
rule; because, as under the construction just asserted, Mrs.
Bosley and the children, the subjects of the two clauses, share
equally, by the will, in the residiary estate. 14 Pick. Rep.
521; 6 Johns. C. R. 375; 3 My. & Cr. 376; 1 Jarman, 202,
397, 412; 2 Atk. 374; 2 My. & Keen, 165; Yelv'. 209; 'Cro.
Eliz. 9; Greenl. Cruise, (Dev.) 149, (marg.); 10 B. & Cres.
895, (21 E. C.-L. 192.)
5. The agreement of the testator to lease a part of his land
in Baltimore county, had not the effecf to revoke the devise of
that part of the land in favor of the complainants, and only
modified the devise so as to give the rent and reversion on the
lease, in place of the land. This construction applies also to
the lot and house by the will devised to " Old Sarah," and,
subsequently to the codicil, agreed to be leased to William
Hollins, as stated in the defendant's schedule. The privilege,
accorded by the agreement of lease, to extinguish the rent and
so acquire the reversion, does not render the transaction a sale,
and give to the contracting lessee the equitable fee of the land.
If the agreements for leasing revoked the devises of these
pieces of property, then the testator died intestate as to them;
the agreements dating after the codicil. Greenl. Cruise, 105.
109, (note to 106); 2 Ves. Jr. 428; 1 Jarman, 167,,171, 172; 4
Kent, 530; 7 T. R. 399; S. C. 1 B. & Pull. 576; Cro, Car. 23;
Cro. Jac. 49; 1 Vera. 97; P Bro. Parl. Ca. 12; 2 Chipman, 74;
4 Greenl. 241; 3 Ves. Jr. 685; 1 Maryland Ch. Decis. 36; ro
Eliz. 9.

SUPREME COURT.
Bosley et al. v. Boslcy's Executrix

The counsel for the appellee made the following points.
1. That the residuary clause in the codicil revokes the residuary clause in the will. 4 Black. 381; 4 Kent, 535, (note);
3 Greenl. Cruise, 139 ; Rowley v. Eyton, 2 Mer. 128; Rogers v.
Pettis, 1 Addams, (Prerog.) 30.
2. That the decree of the court below was right; because, if
no part of the specific property devised by the last clause in the
will, which contains also the residuary devise, was not revdked
by the last clause in the codicil, a large part of that specific
property was subsequently disposed of, by the testator, and
othei parts of it otherwise specifically devised by the codicil.
3. Be-cause that portion of such property so specifically
devised by said last clause in the will, his lands in Baltimore
county, was revoked by the testator's agreement of lease, afterwards executed by Mrs. Bosley, by her lease to Armstrong, on
the 18th of January, 1845, for the term of ninpty-nine years,
renewable forever. 7 Bac.. Ab. tit. Wills and Testaments, G.
344; 4 Kent, Com. 528 to 530, and cases there cited, 6 ed.;
Colegrave v. Manley, 6 Madd. 84; Ward v. Moore, 4 Madd.
368; 5 Pick. 112; 7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 261.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
The dispute in this case arises out of the will and codicil of
James Bosley, late of the city of Baltimore. The will was executed in 1828, and the codicil in 1839. -Ie died in December,
1843;
In his will, after sundry specifip devises and bequests, he devised
and bequeathed all his lands and other real estate, in Baltimore,
Cecil, and Alleghany counties, in Maryland, and also in Florida,
find his house and lot in Santa Croix, and all the real estate he
might have elsewhere, to his wife Elizabeth N. Bosl~y, her heirs
and assigns, ir trust'to sell the same to the best advantage, and
directed the net proceeds, together with all the residue of his estate, real, personal, and mixed, not therein before devised, to be
equally divided-one half to his wife, and the other to the children of his byother, Dr. John Bosley. After making his will,
arid previous to the codicil, he sold all of the lands particularly
mentioned in the residuary clause of the will above stated, except some lands lying in Baltimore county, and except also
his, Florida land and part of that in Alleghany county, of
which it seems he had been unable to obtain possession. And
at the time of making the codicil, he held some of the proceeds
of. these sales in bonds and other securities, and with the residue
had purhased other property.
By the codicil h&devised his summer residence, situated in

DECE

BER TERM, 1852.

395

Bosley et al. v. Bosloy's Executrix.
Baltimore county, to his wife, and also'the securities he held for
the lands sold in Cecil county, - and directed all the property
he bad acquired after the date of his will to be sold and the
proceeds to be equally divided between his wife and her sister,
Margaret ,.Noel. Then follows a residuary clause in the following words:
"Lastly, my pew in St. Paul's Church, and all my other property, real or personal, and all money in bank belonging to me
at the time of my decease, I give, devise and bequeathe unto
my said wife Elizabeth N. Bosley, and her heirs forever; and I
ratify and confirm my said last will in every thing except, where
the same is hereby revoked and altered as aforesaid."
Upon this vwill and codicil, the appellants, who are the children of Dr. John Bosley, claim the one half of this personal
property left by the testator at his death, and also one half of
the lands not specifically devised, upon the ground that the residuary clause in the will is not revoked by that in the codicil.
This claim is altogether untenable. The residuary clause in
the codicil is inconsistent with that in the will, and consequently
revokes 4t.
!1'here is another claim, however, which presents a question of
more difficulty.
It appears that at the time of making his will the testator
held, in fee-simple, fifty acres of land in BaltimQre county;
and that in 1842, after the execution of the codicil, he entered
into a contract with a certain Horatio G. Armstrong, whereby
he covenanted that in consideration of the payment of two
thousand dollars, at the times specified in the agreement, and
the annual ground rent of two hundred and ten dollars, payable
semiannually, he would lease the said land to Armstrong, his
executors, administrators, and assigns, for ninety-nine years, renewable forever, with the right to the said Armstrong to extinguish the ground rent, upon the payment of three thousand
five hundred dollars at any time, to the said James Bosley, his
heirs and assigns. The testator died before the cash payments
were made; and the money was afterwards received by his.
widow, and the lease executed by her according to the termsof.
the covenant.
As this was a part of the land in Baltimorp county, aid was
therefore specifically devised in the residuary clause of thq will,
it was not revoked by the general devise of the residue bf his
real and personal property in the codicil. The question theref6re is, whether the contract with Armstrong was an implied revocation of the devise in the will.
The adjudged cases upon implied revocations are collected
together in 4 Kent's Com. 628, pnd the rule he deduces from

396

SUPREME

COURT.

Bosley et al. v. Bosley's ExL3ctrix.

them is this, "that the same' interest which the testatnr had
when he made his will should 'ontinue to be the same- interest,
and remain unaltered to his death, and that the least alteration
in that interest is a revocation." A valid agreement or covenant to convey, which equity will specifically enforce, will operate in equity as a revocation of a previous dpise of the land.
Walton v. Walton, 7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 258.
Iii the case before us, the interest which the testator had in
this land at the time of making his will, was converted into
money byhis contract with Armstrong. It was a sale and an
agreement to convey his whole interest in the land. It is therefore unlike the case of a lease for years, or of ninety-nine years
renewable forever, in which the lessor retains the reversionand doesrlrot bind himself to convey it on any terms to the
lessee.
The form of the contract adopted in this instance, between
the testator and Armstrong, is in familiar use in the sale of lots
in the city of Baltimore and the adjacent country. It has nearly
if not altogether superseded the old forms of contract where
the vendor conveyed the lands'and took a mortgage to secure
the payment of the, purchase-money -or gave his bond for the
conveyance and retained the. legal title in himself until the
purchase-money was paid. And it has taken the place of these
forms of coritract, because it is far more convenient. both to the
seller and the pbrchaser. For it enables the vendee to postpone
the payment of a large portion of the purchase-money until he
Tfinds it entirely convenient to pay it; and at the same time it
is more advantageous to the vendor, as it gives him a better
security for the punctual payment of the interest; and while
an extpnded credit is given to the vendee, it is to the vendor a
sale for cash. For if his ground rent is well secured, he can at
any time sell it in the market, for the balance of 'the purchasemoney left in the hands of the vendee. It wxKill
be observed that
the rent.reserved is precisely the interest cn the amount of the
purchas'e-money remaining unpaid. And when it must be admitted that a sale in which a bond of conveyance is given, and
-the title retained by the vendor, to secure the payment of the
purchase-money, is-in equity a revocation, there would seem to
be no good reason for holding otherwise in the case before us,
where the vend6r is equally bound to convey when the whole
purchase-money is paid. A distinction between the cases
wvould rest on a difference in form rather than of substance and
principle. It would moreover make the revocation depend upon
the w.ll, of a stranger, and not upon that of the testator. For
if Armstrong had paid to him in his lifetime, the whole amount
of the" purchase-money, as he had a right to do under the con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

397

Bosley et al. v. Bosley's Executrix.

tract, it is very clear that the devise would then have been revoked, And if the purchaser's omission to pay prevents the
contract from being a revocation, the validity of -the devise is
made to depend, not upon the will or the act of a testator, but
that of a stranger, over-which the testator has no control. We
think a distinction leading to that result cannot be maintained,
and that the devise in question was revoked by the contract
with Armstrong.
The counsel for the appellants, however, contends, that if the
will is revoked, and the land converted into money, yet there
was a legal reversionary interest remaining in him; and that the
rent reserved, being incident to the reversion' and pertaining to
the realty, cannot pass under a bequest of money or personal
estate.
But it must be remembered that the residuary clause in the
codicil gives to his wife all his real as well as personal property,
not otherwise disposed of; and therefore is broad enough to
embrace the interest in question, although, in contemplation of
raw, it belongs to the realty.
We do not mean to say, that every residuary clause in a
codicil will pass land specifically devised in a will, where, by
some act of the testator, the devise is impliedly revoked after
the codicil was executed. There are adjudged cases upon certain wills where it has been held otherwise. But whether the
property passes to the devisee or descends to the heir, as in a case
of intestacy, must depend upon the intention of the testator, to
be gathered from the will and codicil. It is blways necessarily
a question of intention. No two wills, probably, were ever writteh
in precisely the same language throughout; nor any two teitators die under the same circumstances in relation to their estate,
family, and friends. And it would be very unsafe as well as
unjust to expound the will of one man, by the construction
which a court of justice had given to that of another, merely
because similar words were used in paticular parts of it.
Undoubtedly there are fixed rules of law in relation to the
construction of certain Wvords and phrases in a will, which have
been established by a' long course of judicial decisions; and
which have become landmarks of property, and cannot therefore be disturbed. But in most of the cases in which they have
been applied, it is to be feared that they havze not accomplishea,
but defeated, the testator's intentions.
They owe their origin to the principles of the feudal system,
-which always favored the heir at law) because it was its policy
to perpetuate large estates in the same family. And, acting
upon this principle, the English courts of justice have, in some
instances, placed the narrowest possible construction on the
VOL. XIV.
34

SUPREME COURT.
Bosley et al. v. BRsley's F:xecutrix.

words of a will. And a testator sometimes being held to die
intestate as to portions of his property, and left it to descend
to his'heir, when a fair and reasonable interpretation, according
to the ordinary acceptation of the words used, plainly showed
that the whole.estate was intended to be devised to another.
It has not been the disposition of courts of justice, in modern
times, to extend the application of these rigid technical rules;
but rather to carry out the intention of the testator, when no
fixed rule of legal interpretation stands ia the way. And this
is, and ought to be, more especially the case in this country.
For wills here are most frequently drawn by persons unacquainted with legal phraseology, and ignorant of the meaning
which the law attaches to the words they use. The property
devised is, perhaps, in the greater number of cases, the fruits of
the testator's own industry. " And the policy and institutions of
the country are adverse tp the feudal policy of favoring the heir
at the expense of the devisee; and of construing, for that purpose, the words of the will in their most restricted sense, although
that construction obviously defeats the intention of the testator.
But the question, arising upon this will and codicil, does not
depend upon any word or phrase to which the law has affixed
a certain and definite meaning. The words used are legally
sufficient to pass the property to his widow, and the only question is, was that his intention, as we gathEr it from the will and
codicil, considered together? We think it was.
Eleven years elapsed between the date of the will and that
of the codicil. The situation of the testa'or's property had undergone considerable changes during that time; and his mind
also had materially changed as to the manner of disposing of it.
The lands mentioned in the residuary clause of his will, had,
with a very small exception, been sold. And the property he
purchased with the proceeds of these sales or otherwise acquired
after the date of the will, was devised by the codicil to his wife
and her sister, and not, as before, divided between his wife and
his brother's children; and the whole of his personal estate is
given exclusively to his wife, instead of the one half only bequeathed in the will. The land, which has given rise to this
controversy, was also sold by the testator in his lifetime, and
two thousand dollars of the purchase-money had become personalty, and as such, unquestionably passed to the wife, by the
residuary clause in the codicil. The testator's remaining interest in this property, was also money, and not land; but by reason of the form- in which he contracted to sell it, this portion
of the money belonged to the realty. It is impossible to suppose, after looking at these bequests to his wife, that he meant
to die intestate of this money, and to divide this small portion

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

399

Bosley et al. v. Bosley's Executrix.

of his estate in two parts, giving her the two thousand dollars,
but withholding from her the residue, and leaving it to be claimed
by whoever might chance to be his heir at law at the time of
his death. On the contrary, it is manifest, from the whole context of the will and codicil, that he did not mean to die intes.tate of any portion'of his property; and that what did not pass
to others by a specific devise or bequest, should go to his wife.
The codicil is evidently drawn by unskilful hands, and therefoid,
according to settled principles of law, must receive a fair and
liberal interpretation to accomplish the intent. And as that
intent is apparent in favor of the widow, it ought not to be defeated by a narrow and technical construction of particular
words.
It was suggested, in the argument, that the appellants might
be entitled to a remainder in fee, in the two lots on which, it
would seem from the will and the codicil, that two old servants
of the testator were living. But this point, very properly, was
not pressed. For the lots mentioned inthat clause of the will,
in which a remainder in fee is given to the appellants after the
death of Mrs. Bosley, are lots on which there were improvements,
and which yielded an income. The lots in question were not
of that description. They yielded no income, and cohsequently
are not embraced in that devise.
Upon the whole, therefore, we think the decree of the Circuit
Court was right, and must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on- the trangcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the *District
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel., On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.
Dissenting, Mr. Justice GRIER.

