70

SUPREMfE COURT.
Sample et al. v. Barnes.

SAMUEL

SAMPLE, ISRAEL W. PIORINS, AND BURWELL
AP.PELLANTS, V. SHADRACH :BARNES.

SCOTT,

Where there was a judgment at law against a defendant in Mississippi, and he sought
relief in equity, upon the ground that the consideralion of the contract was the
introduction of slaves into the State, and consequently illegal a court of equity
will not grant .relief, because the complainant was it paii ddicto with the other

party.
Moreover, such a defence would have been good at law, and the averments, that
deception was practised to prevent the complainant from making the defence, are
not sustained by the evidence in the case.

And, further, after the judgment, the

complainant gave a forthcoming bond, thus recognizing the validity of the judgment.

THis was an appeal from tho Circuit Court of the United
States for the Sout*hern District of Mississippi.
The facts are all stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued, in a printed brief, for the appellants, by Jliessrs.
Walker, Freeman,and Volney B. Howard. No counsel appeared
for the appellee.
The argument consisted chiefly in comments upon the testimony, and contending that giving a forthcoming bond did not
recoanize the validity of the judgment.
The giving and forfeiture of the forthcoming bond aid not
deprive the party of his right to a decree for a new trial at law.
It is, in legal effe-ct, little more than the ordinary bond of replevin.
There was no judicial proceedings on the forfeiture, and no
right, under the laws of Mississippi, to inquire into the irregularities, errors, or frauds of the original judgment. The giving
delay
in presenting his
of the bond therefor did not operate ita in
equity.
defence at law.. He could only make
It has been decided, in Mississippi, that the giving and forfeiting of a forthcoming bond operates as an extinguishment of
the original judgment. Bit this has been held with reference
to judgment liens and process. The courts would not, of course,
permit an execution on the original judgment, and on the statutory judgment on the forthcoming bond, or sustain liens on both
judgments. The courts of that State, however, have fully recognized the principle, that the statutory jud!gment rested entirely
on the judicial judgment, and have held that the former could
nu6 b. supported without the latter, and became void on its
reversal. Hoy v. Couch, 5.How. Miss. Rep. 188. If, therefore,
the appellant had a good .cause for-a new'trial in chancery, he
did not: lose it by giving the forthcoming bond.- So far as the
-merits and the equity is concerned, both proceedings are but one
judgment. The statutory proceeding is only held'a judgment,
as ELmere legal fiction, and cannot stand in the way of a court
of equity.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Sample et al. v. Barneu.

Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court
In their bill, filed in the Circuit Court, it is alleged by the
appellants that, in the month of October, 1836, the appellee,
Barnes, in conjunction with one Dunett, introduced from other
States of the Union into the State of Mississippi, and in violation of her constitution and laws, a number of negro slaves,
for +he purpose of being sold as merchandise. That, in execution of the design for which they were introduced, a number of
those slaves were sold by the appellee to one Thomas B. Ives,
from whom he took, in payment, a bill of exchange, bearing date
in October, 1836, drawn by Ives on N. and J. Dicks, of New
Orleans, and indorsed by the appellant, Sample, ,nd one G. A.
Thompson. That this bill, being presented first for acceptance
and subsequently for payment, was, in each instance, refused by
the drawees, but was not protested- either for non-acceptance or
non-payment. That, after these transactions, upon some agreement betveen Barnes and Ives, a second bill of exchange was,
in 1837, drawn by the latter upon the firm of Ford, Markham,
& Co., for $5,916.66, at ten months after date, and was indorsed
by the appellant, Sample, and by G orge A. Thompson, the in-'
dorsers of the previous bill, and was substituted'ln lieu thereof.
That this second bill was not paid; but whether it was protested, or whether notice of its dishonor was ever given, the appellant, Sample, states that he was unable to recollect That
Barnes, being urged by Sample to sue Ives immediately for the
amount of the second bill, instead of complying with this direction, took a deed of ttast oh certain property of Ives, stipulating in this deed to give further time for the payment of the bill,
and that this deed of trust, and the agreements therein contained, were made without the knowledge and against the consent and directions of the appellant, Sample, and in fraud of
his rights as a surety. That a suit having been instituted in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi, against Sample, as the last indorser of the bill
of exchange drawn on Ford, Markham, & Co.; the said Ives,
upon information being _iven him of that fact by Sample,
assured him that he need not feel any .uneasiness on that
account, as he, Ives, had employed able counsel to defend him
in that suit. That, subsequently to this assurance from Ives,
in a conversation of the appellant, Sample, with Barnes, the
latter promisect him, that, if Ives would confess a judgment in
the State court for the amount of the bill, he, Barnes, would
dismiss the suit he had instituted against the appellant as indorser of that bill That, upon communicating to Ivbs the proposition of the appellee, Ives professed his perfect readiness -to
comply with that proposal, and Barnes' then parted with the

72

SUPREME COURT.
Qmple et al. v. Barnes.

appellant, with the professed purpose of obtaining from Ives
a confession of judgment, and At the same time agreed with
the appellint, Sample, that, in -the event of a failure by Ives to
give such cofifession, he would inform Sample the-- , n order
that they, conjointly, might endeavor to obtain from Ives a fulflmerit of his promise. That Barnes omitted to give information,'of the refusal on the part of Ives; but permitted'the
appellaht, Sample, to remain under the impression that a confession of judgment had been given by Ives, until after the
cummencement of the Circuit Court; in the month of May,
1839, when the appellant, Sample, was informed by Barnes that
Ives was insolvent. That, by these circumstances, and especially by the conduct of Barnes, Sample was thrown off his
guard, and a judgment by default was, in consequence thereof,
rendered against him at the May term of the Circuit Court, in
1839, for the sum of $6,822.62, and the costs of suit. That, executioh having been sued out on this judgnient, the- appellant,
Sample, in conformity with advice given him, had, with the other
appellants; Pickins and Scott, as his sureties, executed a forthcoming bond for the delivery to the marshal of the property therein
named; which bond, having been forfeited, pperated as a judgment, and execution thereon had been sued out, and had been
levied on the slaves and other personal property of Sample.
Upon the foregoing statements, the appellants prayed, that
the original contract for the sale of the slaves by Barnes, and
all the undertakings and liabilities growing out of that sale,
might be declared to be void as having been in violation of the
constitution and laws of Mississippi; and that for this cause
affecting the character of the contract, and by reason too of the
fraud and deception imputed by the bill to the appellee, Barnes,
with reference to,Sample, the judgments alid executions obtained for his benefit might be perpetually enjoined.
'Upon the 24th of April, 1840, an injunction was awardect uLu
appellants by the Judge of the District Court of the United
Stafes for the Southern District of Mississippi.
To that portion of the bill wlieh charges the introduction of
slaves in violation of -the cbnstitution and laws of Mississippi,
the ippellee declines to answer, as that charge included the lia.
bility to a criminal prosecution. To'this refusal of the appellee
no exception was takenf, either in the pleadings or at the hearing
of the cause. To every- other charge in the bill the answer is
directly responsive, and fully denies every material allegation.
And wi.th respect to all tfie charges, inclusive of the first, the
testimony adduced by the complainant below, falls far short of
sustaining any one of them. It is deemed loose, vague, and
in~mmaterial. Nay, the very contract witli Ives, filed as an exhibit

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

78

Sample et al. v. Barnes.

with the bill, and which is alleged to have been an agreement
for indulgence to Ives, to the prejudice of the-rights of Sample,,
absolufely overthrows this assertion, and is shown apon its face,
and by its terms and object, to have been simply an additional
security from Ives, operating. if at all, for the advantage of
Sample; a security too, which the grantee, in that instrument
had the right to enforce immediately upon failure to pay the bill
of exchange drawn on Ford, Markham, & Co.
UOpon the hearing of this cause before the Circuit Court at
the November term of 1848, the injunction which had been
awarded the appellants was dissolved, -and the bill dismissed
with costs. For the examination of -hat decree upon appeal,
this cause is now before us.
This case is then left to be decided upon its features, as disclosed in the bill and answer; and~the application to these of a
few settled and familiar principles of equiiy jurisprudence, will
at once determine its fate. And first with respect to the intrinsic merits of the appellant's original claim to exemption from
liabihty; and secondly, £s to the degree or extent in which such
claim, if eyer existing, has been affected by his own conduct, as
evincing either the, assertion or the surrender of that claim.
The bill commepces by charging the introduction and sale of
slaves within the State of Mississippi, in violation of the constitution and laws of that State, as the essential ground of impeachment of tue original contract and of Sample's exemption
fon'liability accruing therefrom. Yet it is somewhat singular,
thau wbhilst urging this objection and whilst admitting his parTicipation in the sale, by giving it the sanction of his.name and
credit, he is entirely silent as to any knowledge by him as to the
illegality of a transaction in which he bore so important a part.
He certainly possessed, at some period of time, knowledge of
the character of that transaction; and if his knowledge reached
back to its origin and purposes, or to the date of hig own phricipation therein, he must be viewed ds stafiding in pari delicto
with all similar acrors therein - a position whieli, however it
might shield him against attempts from associates in iwong, so
far as these should be urged through the instrumentality of
courts of justice, can invest him with no rights, either at law or
in equity as against advantages acquired by his confederates.
The appellant, Sample, was certainly .bound to show. himself
clear of the taint of a transaction which he denounces 4s ileg&
and fraudulent, but in which he shows that he has mingled from
its inception, and which lie deliberately ratified At an interval of
six months after his first participation in it. His "failure to do
this, if his denunciation of the transaction be taken as traie,
must be decisivet of his fate before a tribunal which lends its
VOL.*XIV.

74

SUPREME COURT.
SampLe et al. v. Barnes.

aid or countenance to those only who can present themselves
with pure hands, and who are free from suspicion.
The rule, as applicable to the position of this party, a rule believed to be without exception, has been distinctly announced
by this court in a case very similar in most of its features to the
one now before us; for that, like the present, was a case in which
the contract was impeached for precisely the same reason for
which the interposition of equity was here invoked; and in that,
too, as in this instance, after the omission to set up a defence at
law. We allude to-the case of Creath's Administrator v. Sims,
in the 5th of Howard, where this court, on page 204, have thus
announced the rule by which courts of equity are governed.
"WWhosoever," say they, "would seek aLmissifn into a court
of equity must come with clean hands, and such a court will
never interfere in opposition to conscience or good faith. The
effect of these principles upon the statements of the compla nant is obvious upon the slightest consideration. The comllainant alleges that the obligation to which he had voluntarily
'become a party was intentionally made in fraud of the law,
and for this reason he prays to be relieved from its fulfilment.
This prayer, too, is addressed to a court of conscience, to a court
which touches nothing which is impure. The condign and appropriate answer from such a tribunal to such a prayer is this,
that, however unworthy may have been the conduct of your
opponent, you are confessedly in pari delicto; you cannot be
permitted here to plead your own demerits: precisely therefore,
in the position in which you have plared yourself, in that
position we must leave you." The attitude of the appellant,
Sample, in connection with this aspect of the case, would of
itself alone be conclusive against his application to equity for
relief; but as this party has adduced other reasons upon which
he has supposed himself entitled to equ-.table interposition, it
may not be out of place to show their utter inconsistency with
the very rudiments of equity jurisprudence ; with principles
so familiar to the courts and to the profession as to render their
particular annunciation scarcely necessary. The defence now
attempted to be set up by Sample, viz.: the illegality under the
constitution and statutes of Mississippi of the consideration for
which the two bills of exchange were given, if true, was a legal
defence, to be availed of in the action z.tlaw by plea or demurrer. Of this principle he seems to be aware, and therefore
hetendeavors to escape from its. operation by attempting to fix
upon Barnes cetain practices by which he, Sample, was prevented from making a proper defence in the pction against him
in the Circuit Court; but with respect to the testimony adduced
to establish such alleged practices, :it may be remarked in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

75

Sample et al. v. Barnes.

first plaCe, that it does not make them out as they are averred
by the bill to have occurred, and in the next place, admitting
the averments in the bill, with respect to the practices objected
against Barnes after the institution of the suit at law, supposing
them to have ocourred as stated in the bill, they could have
formed no valid obligation upon Barnes to surrender, without
consideration or equivalent, his legal rights, nor any dispensation
to the appellant, Sample, from his duty to guard his interests" in
the pending litigation in which he was a party. Barnes had
no power to compel a confession of judgment by Ives; and even
if such confession had taken place, there could be no propriety
in requiring Barnes to substitute for his demand, upon a solvent
debtor, a judgment against another who was not solvent
The appellant, Sample, appears to halve been guilty of the
grossest neglect and disregard of that diligence which the law
requires at the hands of all suitors, and fram the consequences
of which they cannot be rescued consistently with the rights of
others oi the order of society. The law, as applicable to such
neglect, is plainly declared in the case of Creath v. Sims, already quoted, in which this court have said that "a court of
equity will never be called into activity to remedy the consequences of laches or neglect, or the want of reasonable diligence. Whenever, therefore, a competent remedy or defence
shall have existed at law, the party who may have neglected to
use it, will never be permitted here to supply the omission, to
the &ncouragement of useless and expensive litigation, and perhaps to the subversion of justice."
How, then, shall the conduct of the appellant, Sample, be
reconciled with the principles by this court so emphatically announced? He not only omits to insist upon his legal defence
in the suit at law against him in the Circuit Court, but, after the
judgment in that court by default, he executes a delivery bond,
with the other appellants as his sureties; thus, after the firs
judgment against himself by default, the procures a second
judgment against himself and his sureties as it were by confes.
sion. This party has, by his conduct, foul times recognized the
claim against him by Barnes - twice by his indorsement upon
the bills drawn on N. and J. Dicks & Co , and on Ford, Markham, & Co.; in the third instance by permitting the judgment
by default; and fourthly, by executing the forthcoming bond;
wvhich he knew was tantamount to a confession of judgment
for the demand.
Upon these grounds, solely, and independently of the original
consideration on which the undertaking by Sample was founded
and supposing that consideration to have been invalid, if-inquired into at the proper time, this appellant inust, by his can-

SUPREME COURT.
Raymond v. Longswort!a.

duct, be regarded as having waived all right of inquiry into that
consideration, nay, rather as having repeatedly admitted its validity. To permit him, after so doing, to contradict all that he
has repeatedly and formally declared, would be to allow him to
falsify his solemn acts, to trifle with the settled rules of law and
the practice of the courts, and would lead to endless litigation.
We therefore order that the decree of the Circuit Court, dissolving the injunction and dismissing the bill in this case, be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed.
Ordr.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

WILLIAM F.

RAYMciND'S LEssEE V. NICHOLAS LONGWORTH.

ir the State of Ohio, it is not a sufficient description of taxable lands to say, "1Cooper,
James, Sacres, section 24, T. 4,.F. R. L" A deed made in consequence of aqale

for taxes under sueh a description is void. The courts of Ohio have so decided,
and this court adopts their decision.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
It was an ejectment, brought by Raymond, for the following
property, viz.: - All that certain tract of land in the western
part of, Cincinnati, commencing thirty feet north of Nicholas
Longwvoth's individual property, on the west side of Mill Creek
road, thence north, on the line of said road, five hundred feet,
and extending back, the same width, at right angles with said
road, four hundred feet.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. (Jhase, for the plaintiff in error, and
submitted, 'on printed argument, by Mr. Stanberry, fdr the
defendant in error.
-The bill of exceptions brought up other .points besides the
one upon which the judgment of this court rested; but it is not
necessary to notice them.

