SUPREME COURT.
Stainback et-al. v. Rae et al.

An assignment, therefore, that would vest the assignee with
the property of the copy-right, according -o the act of Congress,
must be in writing, and signed in the presence of two witnesses,
and it may, I think, well be doubted whether a transfer even by
a sale, under a decree of a court of chancery, would pass the
title so as to protect the purchaser, unless by a conveyance, in
conformity with this 'equirement. 6 B. & Cr. 169; 1 Car. &
P. 658; R. & Al. 187; D. & K. 215.
It is unnecessary, however, to express an opinion upon the
point. It is sufficient, for the purposes of this case, to say, that
the right in question is wholly independernt of, and disconnected
from, the engraved plate; and, that there is no foundation for
the defence set up, that it passed as appurtenant to the sale and
transfer of the property, in the engraved plate, from which the
copies of the map were struck off.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the decree below,
must be reversed with costs, and the proceedings remitted, with
directions - that a decred be entered fOr the complainant, in

conformity with this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on io be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On cohsideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs,
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
the said Circuit Court, with directions to enter a decree therein,
in conformity to the opinion of this court.

L.

1
'STAINBACK ET AL., CLAIMANTS OF THE SHIP WASHINGTON, HER TACKLE, &C., APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAM A. RAE,
IN HIS OWN RIGHT, AND AS ADMINISTRATOR OF JOSEPH PORTER WHEELER, DECEASED, AND EDMUND CROSBY, MASTER,
OWNERS OF THE SHIP MARY FRANCES. AND FREDERICK TuDOE, OWNERS OF THE CARGO OF' SAID SHIP, APPELLEES.

Vhere a collision takes place between two vessels at sea, which is the result of inevitable accident, without the negligence or fault of eilher party, each vessel must
bear its own loss.

Mr. Justice Curtis did not sit in this cause, having been of
counsel in the court below.

DECEMBER TBR3L 1852.
Stainback et gl. v. Rae et al.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Uiiited
States for the District of Massachusetts, in admiralty.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argucd by 31r. Badger and Mr. Lawrence, for the appellants, and by Xllr: Goodrich, for the appellees.
The points made by the counsel for the appellantsi were the
following:
First. That the watch on board the Washington, was u5ual,
proper, and safe; and that consequently, no negligence is imputable to her.
Seeond. Thiat in the state of the weather, and the position of
the two vegsels in respect to each other, it was impossible that
the Washington could ha-e discovered the Mary Frances at a
greater distance than a quarter of a mile, and highly improbable
that she could have discovered her at more than half that distance; and that under such circumstances, considering the admitted rate at which the two vessels were approaching each
other, it was impossible for the Washington, by any manmuvre
whatever, to have avoided the collision.
Third. That if-the Mary Frances, as stated by s6me of her
witnesses, discovered the Washington ten minutes, and as stated
by others, five minutes, before the collision, the two vessels must
have been at a distance of two miles, or at least one, from each
other, and it was in her power, by changing her course, to have
avoided the collision; and if,,as stated by the same witnessei
she perceived that the Washington had not discovered- her, It
*as her duty to have done so, and consequently the collision is
attributable to the fault, not of the Washington, but of the May
Frances.
And hence, that the collision was either a mere misfortune,
without fault in either party, or without fault on the part of the
Washington, and, in either view, the decree must be reversed.
31r. Goodrich, for the appellees, contended,
1. That on the night of the collision, the weather was fair and
starlight overhead, with a hazy horizon, and that the night was'
not unusually dark.
2. The ships being each closehauled on the wind, neither wag
materially to windward of thd other, and each crew was equally
favorably situated to see the other ship, and to hear hailing from
the other ship.
And if either ship was to windward of the other, and for this
reason less favorably situated in those respects, it was the Mary
Frances.
3. That the crew of the Mary Frances had a aood look-olt
45 *

SUPREME COURT.,
Stainback et al. v. Rae, et al.

before, and at the time of the collision, ani used all due care to
prevent it; and that they actually saw and hailed the Washington in time to prevent the collision; and that the crew of the
Washingfon did no act to avoid the collision, and the collision
was attributable to the absence of a good look-out on board the
latter ship.
4. The appellees maintain, that the rule of the sea is, that
where two vessels,- closehauled on the wind, approach each
other, and must meet unless the course of one is changed, the
vessel having her starboard tacks on board, must keep her course,
and the one having her larboakd tacks on board, must bear up
and give way. The Alexander Wise, 2 Win. Robinson, Adm. R.
65, 68; The Virgil, Id. 201 ; The Mary s'tewart, Id. 244; The
Ceser, 3 Haggard, Adm. R. 216; The Ligo, 2 Id. 356, 360;
Capp v. Young, 6 Law Reporter, 111-13 ; 1 Conkling's Admnirmt Practice, 303-6; The Europa, 14 Jurist, 627, (2 Law and
Eq. R. 562-4); The Genesee v. Fitzhugh, 12 Howard, 443;
Welsh Rogers,
g6.13 Id. 2832; Prithard's Admiralty Digest, art.
12, p. 156; 1 Bell's Cor. 583.
5. That the appellees having made out a prinzd facie case of
want of skill and care on the part of the crew of the Washington, the burden of proof is -on the appellants to show that due
care and skill was used. Authorities previously cited. The
George, 9 Jurist, 282,4; Notes of Cases, 161; Pritchard's Admiralty'Digest, art. 114, 116, and 117, p. 137, tit. Damage.
6. That appellees are entitled in law to recover compensation
for freight and cargo, as well as for the ship of appellants. See
2 Kent's Com. 6 ed. 232, § 8; Story on Bailments, ch. 6, §§ 599,.
602, 608, and case of Dundee, note to-§ 60D.; 1 Bell's Com. 580.
1. The Washington was in fault, because, her officers and
crew did not maintain that constant- care and vigilance which
her position required.
A. The Washington, having her larboard tacks on board, was
bound to give way.
B. No officer, and only two men oh deck, attending to the
navigation of -the ship-one, McCoy, was at the wheel, the
other, Simmons. a boy, was on the look-out.
C A large ship, with noisy passengers, nearing the land, under full sail, in a hazy night, should have had at least two men
on the look-out.
D. No sufficient look-out. before the call to the pumps.
t. The Washington rmdght have avoided the collision.
Mr. Justice. NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Cir6uit Coi&r of ther United States.
for the Dir zict of Massachusetts, in admiralty.

DECEMBER TElIM. 1852.
Sta-inback et al. v. Rae et al.

The libel charges, that the ship Mary Frances, laden with ice,
was on a voyage from Boston to New Orleans, and that on the
11th December, 1847, at about half-past three o'clock in the
morning, while on her starboard tack, inthe prosecution of the
voyage, she was struck by the ship Washington, nearly midships
on her larboard side, breaking in her bulwarks and stanchions,
and starting her planks and timbers, so that in a few hours she
filled with water, and the master and hands were obliged to
abandon her, and she went to the bottom.
The respondents, in their answer, state, that the ship Washington, at the time mentioned in the libel, was upon thE high
seas between George's Shoals and the south shore of Nantucket Island, at a distance of abouL sixty miles from lnd;
that the wind was blowing a moderate breeze from the southsouth-west, and the Washington, with all her reefs out, -ith
courses free, and main-topgallant sails, jib, and flying-jib,'and
fore and rnain-topmast-stay-sails set, was sailing full and y,
upon her larboard tack, and steering due west by the compass,
and as near the wind as possible; that she had a competent
watch on deck, keeping a good look-out, the weather bbing dark
and hazy towards the horizon, especially to the leeward of the
ship, but the stars visible above. That while she was thu pursuing her course, at about half-past three o'clock in the morning,
the Mary Frances was seen about four points on the lee bow of
the Washington, and was then in the act of running up, and
did immediately run up into the wind athwart the hawse of the
Washington; and, that instantly, on the discovery of the Mary
Frances, and of the course she was pursuing, the helm of the
Washingcon was put hard up, and every endeavor made by the
hands on deck to put her before the wind, and to avoid a collision.
The facts, as proved on the part of the libellants, are substantially as follows:
That about half-past three o'clock, on the morning of the 11th
December, 1847, the hands on board the Mary Frances, while
she was standing to the eastward, on her starboard tack, the
wind from the south-south-west closehauled, descried the Washington something less than a quarter of a mile distant, about a
point and a half forward of the Mfary Frances's larboard beam,
some of the hands say, on the larboard bow two or three points.
The Washington was standing to the westward when first seen,
and orders were immediately given to put the helm hard down,
and, at the same time, the hands cried out to those on board the
Washington, to keep off. The collision took place, as estimated,
from five to seven minutes after the Washington was first discovered. The Mary Frances was struck midships, on the lar-

SUPREME. COURT.
Stainback et al. v. Rae et al.

board side, her bulwarks stove in, and 'her planks below the
white streak on the opposite side were broken, and all her forerigging carried away. The ship was abandoned with thirteen
feet o water in her hold, being a wreck, and. wholly unmanageable. The Washington was not at firs* seen plainly, as the
w;eather was hazy. The second mate of the Mary Frances, who
had charge of the watch, and one of the first to descry the
Wastiington, says the weather was hazy and thick, the sky was
overcast, no moon or stars visible. The Mary Frances was
about 320 tons burden; the Washington about 600 tons
The.evidence, on behalf of the respondents, is substanta.Ay
as follows :
The Washingion was bound from Liverpool. to Virginia by
the way of New York, and had On board a cargo of salt, and
some 170 steerage passengers. She was on her larboard tack,
.closehauled, thie wind about south-south-west. The man, at
the wheel states, that an order was' given from the deck, "put
the helm hard up, there is a ship into us;" that the order was
obeyed instantly, but the collision immediately followed. Simmons, one of the hands, states, that he wae on the veather side
of the Washingto. s windlass on the look-out; that the weather
was dark, cloudy, and hazy; that he descried the Mary Frances
fbput a minut&and a half or two minutes before the collision;
that she was on the lee bow of the Washington, between
three and four points; that at first he could not determine her
course on account of the thick weather. '"hen he first saw
her he sang out to the man at the wheel to put helm hard up.
The Avitness heard a noise or hail about half a minute before he
descried the Mary Frances, but could not 'determine whence it
came; supposed it might be from some of the passengers, as
they wer6 in the habit of making a noise.
This witness is substantially corroborated by several others
on board the Washington. Part o.f. the watch weri at the
pumps at the time the cbllision took piace.
The testimony on both sides agree, that each vessel was going
at the rate of five and a half knots the hour.
The court below decreed in favor of the ]ibellants.
lpon a careful -perusal of the evidence in behalf of the libellants and the respondents, if is apparent that there is much less
discrepancy and contradiction among the witnesses called by
the respective parties, as to the material facts, than are usually
found in'these collision cases.
:All agree as to the state of the weather -thick, hazy and
dark; as to the directon of the wind --:.from the south-southwest;. the 'course of the vessels-the Mary Frances on the
starboard tack, standing south-east, and*the Washington on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

637

Stainback et al. v. Rae et al.

larboard, standing nearly due west; therate of spe~d-fie and a
half knots the hour. And even as it respects the distance the
vessels were from -each other when first descried, there is very
little, if any difference.
According to the witnesses on board the Mary Frances, the
Washington was less than a quarter of a mile distant, when
she was first seen. The distance of the former vessel, when
first seen by the hands on board the Washingtdn, is not stated
directly; but Simmons, the look-out, testifies, she was seei from
one and a half to two minutes before the collision, which, re'garding
the combined speed of the two vessels, must have been
at about the same distance. The probability is, that the two
vessels were much nearer each other than a quarter of a mile,
when first seen. The chief mate of the Mary Frances, who
was asleep in his berth at the time, but immediately afterwards
on deck, fixes the distance the vessel could be seen in that state
of the weather at about two hundred yards; and this corresponds with the opinion expressed by the master of the Washington, where he says. the Mary Frances might have been seen
at a distance of about four times her length. The answer of
the experts is that the distance a vessel could be seen in such
weather would be uncertain. The course the two vessels'were
steering was calculated to increase the difficulty, and embarrass
the look-out in descrying the vessel ahead, for, as they were approaching each other by the wind, they presented.to the eye the
edges of the sails, and not the breadth of them, as in other positions.
There is some apparent discrepancy between the witnesses
of the two vessels in respect to their relative position at the
time they were first seen.
The hands on board the Mary
Frances state, when they first descried the Washington,-she
-was two or three points on their larboard bow, one of them
states, she was a point and a half forward of their larboard
beam.
The hands on board the Washington state thbat the Mary
'Frances was on their lee bow when first seen, which would
place the Washington to the windward.- This may be reconciled probably by what is stated by the experts, who agree, that
two vessels, approaching each other as these'were, the hands on
each would necessarily see the approaching vessel over the lee
bow, and which may have led those, on board the Washington
to suppose this vessel was on the weather side.
The manoeuvre of each, on discovering the other, it is agreed,
was proper,- and, indeed, the only one that could have afforded
any chance of preventing the collision. The Mary Fraflees
was thrown into the wind by putting her helm h rd down, and

SUPREME

COURT.

Stainback et al. v. Rae et al.

the Washington bore away before the wind by putting-her helm
hard tip. The orders were not only proper and skilful, but
were promptly given and instantly executed; and unless fault
can be imputed to the latter vessel in not descrying the Mary
Frances sooner, so as to have afforded time for these manoeuvres
to have avoided the disaster, we do not see how she can be
and as to that, the
properly chargeable with the consequences [,
diffi~uliy, if not impossibility of discoverin.g a vessel ahead at
a greater distance than the Mary Frances was seen by the hands
on the Washingtoh, the relative position of the two vessels.
while approaching each other by the wind, presenting only the
edges of the sails instead of theiz breadth, and in thick and
'hazy weather, such as existed in this case, in connection with
the combined speed of the vessels at the thne, seem to furnish
evidence sufficient to repel any such imputation. The two
vessels must have come together probably in less than two
minutes after they were first seen. The look-out appears to hve
been competent and sufficient, and such is, Es we understand it,
the opinion of the experts examined, and who were selected by
both the parties.
Inideed, the fact that the Mary Frances must have been seen
about the same-time by the hands of the 'Washington that she
was seen by those on board, of the Mary Frances, and which
we think, is fairly borne out by the evidence, of itself, should'
be regarded as conclusive against the cha:-ge of fault in this
respect.
,We are of opinion, therefore, that the collision was the result
of an, inevitable accident, afising out of one of the perils of
navigation, "and,in judgment of law, is not attributable to -the
fault of either party. And in such cases the settled rule in admiralty in England is, that each vessel must bear its own'loss,
which rule has been heretofore recognized by this court, but
has not been before'directly applied. 2 Dodson's Adm. R. 83;
Woodrdp Sims, 1. How. Rep. 28; Id. 89; 3 Kent's Com. 231;
Abbot on Shipping, Pt. 3, ch. 1, and Pt. 4, ch. 10, § 10; 2
Brown's Civ. & Adm. Law, 204-7; 5 How. Rep. 503, and ca§es.
The rule is not uniform upon the continent, as several of the
maritime states-in such cases apportion the loss upon the two
vessels. Abbot, 224,-230; 2 Brown's Civ. & Ad. Law, 204-6; 3
Keht's Com. 230,-231, 232.
But we think it more just and equitable, and more consistent
with sound principles, that where the loss happens from a. collision which is the' result of inevitable accident, without the
negligence or fault of either party, each should bear his own.
Therp seems fno good'reason for charging one of the vessels
-with a share of a loss resulting from a common calamity be-

DECEMBER TERM,.1852.

539

Bloomer v. McQuewan et Pl.

yond that happening to herself, when she is without fault, and
therefore in no just sense responsible for it.
Our opinion is, that the decree of the court below must be
reversed,'with costs, and the proceedings remitted, with directions'to enter a decree dismissing the libel with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
fiom the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Cfrcdit
Court with directions to dismiss the libel with costs.

ELISHA BLooMEn, APPELLANT, V. JOHN14 W. McQuEWAN, ALLEN
R. MCQUEiWAN, AND SAMUEL DOUGLAS, PARTNERS, UNDVR THE

NAME OF McQuEwANs & DOUGLAS.
The patent for Woodworth's planing machine was extended from 1842 to 1843, by
the Board of Cominizsioners.
Under that extension, this court decided, in Wilso-d v. Rousseau, (4 How. 688,) that
an assignee had a right to continue the use of the machine which he then had.
In 1845, Congress, by a special act, extended the time still farther from 1849 to 1856:
Under that extension, an assignee has still the same right.
By the cases of Evans v. Eatofi, (3 Wheaton, 548,) and Wilsonv. Ronss~au, (4 How.
688,) these two propositions are settled, viz.:
1. That a-special act of Congress in favor of a patentee, extending the time beyond
that originally limited, must be considered as ingrafted on the getieral law.
2. That, under the general law in force when this special act of Congress was passed,
a party who had purchased the right to use a planing machine during the period to
which the patent was first limited, was entitled to continue to use it during the extension authorized by that law, unless there issomething in the law itself to forbid it.
But there is nothing in the act of Congress, passed in 1845, forbidding such use; and,
therefore, the assignee has the right.

31r. Justice Curtis, having been of counsel, did not sit on the
trial of this cause, and Ar.Justice Wayne was absentL
THis was an dppeal from the Circuit Cotrt of the United.
States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, sitting as a
Court of Equity.
It was a bill flid by Bloomer, -who claimed under Wilson,.
the assignee of Woodworth's planing machine. The whole of

