TTYI1,

DECISIONS
OF TM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITEL STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

ANDREW WYLIE, JR%, ADMINISTRATOR OF SAMUEL BALDWIN,
APPELLANT, V. RICHARD S. COXE.
An appeal will not lie to this court from a refusal of.the court below to open a prior
decree, and grant a rehearing. The decision of this point rests entirely in the
sound discretion of the court below.
The case of Brockett v. Brockett, (2 How. 240.) explained.
Two appeals having been taken, one from the original decree, and the other from the
rd'u-al to open it, the latter must be dismissed, and the case stad for hearing upon
the first appeal.
A motion for a mandate upon the court below, to carry the decree into execution,
overruled.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the District of Columbia.
It was brought before the court upon the following motion :The appellee in this case moves the court to dismiss the
second appeal in this record from the order of the Circuit Court,
overruling a motion to open the decree and grant a rehearing.
And, also, to award a writ of procedendo, commanding th. said
Circuib Court to proceed and execute the first decree.
RICHARD S.

COXE,

In pro. per.

Dec. 22d, 1852.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion oi the
court
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court, for
the District of Columbia.
The bill was filed by the appellee, to recover a sum of money
VOL. XIV.

1

2

SUPREME COURT.
Wylie v. Coxe

which he alleged was due to him for services rendered to the
4ppellant, as administrator, and to Baldw~ih, the intestate, In his
lifetime, in recovering a large sum of money, which was due to
the said Baldwin from the Mexican government. The case
proceeded to final hearing; and,'on the 28th of April, 1852, the
court passed its decree, directing the appellant, as administrator,
to pay to the appellee $3,750, with interest from the 16th of
May, 1851, until paid.
From this decree the appellant prayed an appeal to this
c.ourt- and executed an appeal-bond. in the usual form, in the
penalty of $200. The bond is dated on the 6th of May, 1852,
and on the same day was left for approval in the clerk's office,
and, as appears by an indorsement upon it, was approved and
filed on the 13th of the same month.
On the 13th cf May, 1852, the appellant filed a petition for
a rehearing, and. on the same day moved to open the decree.
The appellee answered the petition on the 19th. And, on the
22d, the motion to open the decree and for a rehearing, was
overruled by the court. And, thereupon, tae appellant prayed
an appeal, as well from this order as from the decree of April
28th; and on the same day executed an appeal-bond in the
penalty of $7,600, which was approved by the court.
The case is therefore here upoh two appeals: lat, from the
final decree, directing the payment of the money; and, 2d,
from the order overruling the motion to open this decree and
grant a rehearing.
In relation to the order, it is plain that no appeal will lie from
the -refusal of a motion to open the decree and grant a rehearing. The decision of such a motion rests in the sound discretion of the court below, and no appeal will lie from it.
The case of Brockett v, Brockett,.(2 How. 240,) which was
relied on in the argument, was decided on different ground.
In that case, before any appeal was taken, a petition was filed
to open the decree for certain purposes, andl the court referred
it to a commissioner to examine and report on the matters
stated in the petition. Upon his report, the court refused to
open the decree, and the party thereupon appealed from this
refusal, as well as the original detree, and gave bond, with
sufficient security, to prosecute the appeal. This bond was
given -within ten days of the refusal of the motion, but -was
more than a month after the original decree. And the court heldthat this appeal was well taken; not because an -ppeal will lie
from the refusal of a motion to open the decree and grant a
rehearing, but because the court regarded the original decree as
suspended by the action of the court on the motion, -and that it
was not effectual and final until the motion was overruled.

DECEM1BER TERM,

1852.

3

Ex parte Taylor.

But in this case the decree was not suspended. It was final
from its date. An appeal had been regularly taken from it,
and an appeal-bond given. And the case has come up to this
court upon that appeal. There is no ground, ther6fore, for saying, that the first decree was not final until, the motion was
overruled. It is now before this court upon the first appeal;
and the second appeal, although it professes to be an appeal
from the original decree, as well as from the subsequent order,
could not act on the original decree, which was already removed;
and the validity of this last appeal must rest altogether on the
refusal to open and rehear. And, as an appeal will not lie from
the decision of such a motion, the appeal, so far as concerns
the order on the petition for a rehearing, and the refusal of the
Circuit Court to grant the same, must be dismissed.
The first appeal was, however, regularly faken, and the case
will stand for hearing when it is reached in the regular call of
the docket. And, as it is now presented by the record, we
see no ground for a mandate to the Circuit Court. 'No application has been made to it to carry the decree into execution;
or to stay proceedings in it pending this appeal. We are
bound to presume that the court below will do whatever may
be right in the premises, if the subject is properly brought before
it. And we cannot, in advance, undertake to guide their judgment by a mandate.
The motion for an order on the Circuit Court, to proceed to
carry the decree into execution, is tlerefore overruled.

Ex PARTE

DAVID TAYLOR.

A rule will be refiLsed for the judges of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia to show cauft why a mandamus should not issue, unless a case is presented
which prird icic requires the interposition of this court.

Such a cdU i3 not presented where the Circuit Court decided that, under an act of
Congress, an affidavit was sufficient to hold a party to special bail. That court had
the power, by the avt, to exercise its judicial discretion.
Thi' act of Congress regulated the subject, and not the statute of Maryland, passed
in 1715.

THIS case came before the court, upon the following motion
and petition:x parte

DAVID T

R

(Petition for a Mandamus to the Judges of the
Circuit.,Court of the District of Columbia,
for Washington County.

The above petitioner moves the honorable the Judges of the

