508

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie et al. v. Moor.

which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act,'9 f Congress in such case made ard provided, and wias
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court,-.
1. "That a sale of land by a marshal, on a venditioni exponas,
after he is reirioved from office, and a new marshal appointed
.and qualified," is not void.
2. Thac such sale being returned to the court, and confirmed by it on motion, and a deed ordered to be made to the
purchaser, at the sale, by the new marshal, such sale being made,
is valid."
"Whereupon it is now here ordered- and 'adjudged, by this
court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

S.MUEL VEAZIEr.AND LEVI YOUNG, PLAINTIFFS IN ERIZOR, V.
WYMAN B. S. MooR.
The River P'enobscot is entirelk within the State of Miaine, from its source to its
pnouth. For the last eight miles of its course it is not navigable, but crossed by
four dams e'ected for manufacturing purposes; Higher up the stream there was an
imperfect navigation.
A lemw of the State, granting the- exclusive navigation of the upper river to a company who were to improve it is not in conflict with th,'87th section of the 1st article of the Constitution of the United States. and a license to carry on the coasting
trade did not ehtitle a vessel to navigate the upper waters of the river.

Tigs case was brought up from the Sulreme Judicial Court
of the State of Maine, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
.scction of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
-It was argued by Mr. Paine, for the plaintiffs in error, and by
M.r. Kelley and Mr. Moor, for the defendant in error:
The following pwpositions were contended for, in an elaborate brief, filed by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error:
I. That the constitutional power of Congress in question,
embraces the right to adopt any means reasonably necessary,
in thVir opinion, to the successful prosecution of commerce
among the States and with foreign nations.
2. That Congress has adopted, as such means, the whole
commercial marine of the, country, every part of which, as a
unit., is under their entixe control and regulation, without regard
tothe waters on which the navigation is carried on.
. That to cpnstitute a part of this commercial marine, no
other qualifications are necessary than those prescribed by Con

DECEMBER TERMI, 1852.

569

Ve-zio et al. v. Moor.

gress in the several act5 regulating the registry and enrolment
of vegsels, and such registry or enrolment is evid~ce of a compliance with the prescribed conditions.
4. That- any vessel so enrolled, being licensed, has an unrestricted right to navigate all the navigable watersbf the United
States. wherever they may be found sei-viceable to its use.
6. 'Lhat the power of Congress to regulate commerce is as
extensive on land as water, and L irres-ective of both ;-that
these compose no, part of commerce or n'aviation but are subject to be adopted as ways or thorouhfaFes of it, whenever
they may be required by the wants ol either ;-and that in
legislating upon the subject, Cungress hks not discriminated
between one class or body of navigable waters and another,
but has made all such waters free for the uses of navigation,
wherever any portion of the commercial marine of the country
may exist.
6. That under the statute of 1831, March 2, ยง 3, the plaintiffs' boat is expressly included as provided for by said act, and
is thus embraced within the power of Congress, even if not
included in the general provisions of the acts regulating the
"coasting trade."
7. That the right of Congress to regulate "commerce with
the Indian tribes," extends to and embraces the Penobscot tribe
of Indians, and the Legislature of Maine has no right to restrict the people to, or deprive them of, any particular mode of
intercourse or trade with them.
8. That any act of a State Legislature contravening such
right of navigation, as does the act set forth in defendants' bill
of complaint, is absolutely null and void.
The points made by the counsel for the defendant in error,
were thus stated:
The only question here is, whether the grant to Moor is in
conflict with that provision of the Constitution which gives
Congress the right to regulate commerce.
A party alleging that a State law is unconstitutional, takes
on himself the burden of establishing these three propositions:
First. That the matter or subject in controversy is within the
legislative jurisdiction of Congress.
Second. That Congress has de facto legislated on the subject,
and embraced it within regulations established by its legislation; and
T/ird. That the party impeaching the law, has himself acquired rights in the subject-matter which is in controversy, and
that these right have been invaded by the legislation of the
State.

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie-et al. v. Moor.

Applying these--rules to this ease, plaintiffs are bound to show,
First. That the navigation of the Penobscot River, above Oldtown Falls, is within the .jurisdiction of Congress.
&cond. That Congress has embraced this navigation in its
legislatiofi, and provided regulations for it; and
. Third. 'That they have acquired rights in that navigation
under the legislation of Congress, which rights have been impaired by the law of the State.
Plaintiffs must establish all three of thesd propositions. It
-is not enough for them to establish any two of them. If they
fail-in any one of them, they have no ground to stand upon.
1st. As -to the first of these propositions. The grant being
confined to waters wholly internal, plaintiffs can carry on no
navigation โข by meaus of those waters, with any foreign nation,
nor with any other State. We think this is almost too plain
for argument. Moor v. Veazie, 32 Maine Rep. 843; Wilson
v. Blackbird Co. 2 Pet. 250; 3 Kent's Com. 4-58; Livingston v.
Van Ingen, 9 Johns. Rep. 506; Gibbons v. Ogden, 17 Id. 488;
Id.- 9 Wheat. 1; New B dford Bridge case, 1 Wood. & Minot,
404; Kellogg v. Union Company, 12 Conn. 7; Passenger case,
7 How. 283; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; New- York
v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102; 3 Cowen, 713.
.Again. This grant is not in conflict with the power of Congress to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes.
1. Because commerce, in this connection, does not include
navigation. 32 Maine, 343.
2. Because the "constitution manifestly refers only to independent tribes with which the general government may come
in conflict; not to those. small remnants of tribes scattered over
the country, which are under State jurisdiction and guardianship. 32 Maine, 343.
2d. We hold that plaintiffs entirely fail to establish the
second proposition, to wit: That the navigation of these
waters is embraced within the actual legislation of Congress.
None of the acts cited were ever intended to apply to waters
wholly within the limits of a State, and which could not be
reached by vessels from foreign ports, or from other States.
Again. We contend that if Congress has, or should pass
any acts interfering with commerce purely internal, they would
be unauthorized and void. Passenger case, 7 How. 283; Genesee Chief, 12 Id. 443.
3d. As to the third proposition, the case fails to show that plaintiffs have acquired any rights in the navigation of the waters of
the upper Pdnobsot, under any regulation of Congress, or in
any other way or manner.
Assuredly there can be no pretence that plaintiffs were engaged
-

571

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Veazie ot al. v. Moor.

in any commerce on those waters with any foreign nation, o
'with any other State. N6r is there any fact or evidence in th
case tending to show that tliey were engaged in commerce'witi
the Penobscot tribe. It does not appear that they traded oi
had any intercourse with that tribe, nor that they wished or in.
tended to have any uch intercourse. The Penobscots are not
represented here. They do not complain of the grant. There
is no fact going to show that this grant has any bearing or
effect on any commerce to which they are parties. If they have
any ports of entry or clearance, for aught the case finds, such
ports may be as hermetically sealed as those of Japan.
If plaintiffs fail to show that they have acquired rights which
have been taken away, they cannot complain, even if the act
was most palpably against the constitution. Wheeling Bridge
case, 13 Howard, 518; East Hartford v. Hartford Briage Company, 17 Conn. Rep.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions raised upon this record, however subdivided or
varied they may have been in form or number, are essentially
and properly restricted to. the power and the duty of this cort
to inquire into the constitutional obligation of-the law of the
State of Maine, upon which the decision of the Supreme Court
of that State was founded; for if that law and the privileges
conferred thereby, be coincident with the eighth 8ection of article 1st of the constitution, they can be assailable here upon no
just exception.
It is insisted, however, that the statute of the State of Maine
is in derogation of the power vested in Congress by the article
and section above mentioned, "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes." We will examine the character of this objection with
reference to the facts disclosed by the record, and with referende
also to the provisions of the statute in question, as they have
been designed to operate on those facts; and as these last are
all agreed by the parties, there canbe no need of a comparison
of the testimony to ascertain their verity.
The River Penobscot is situated entirely within the State of
Maine; having its rise far in the interior of the State, it is. not
subject to the tides above the city of Bangor, near its mouth.
Between the city of Bangor and Old*Town, a distance of eight.
miles, the Penobscot passes over a fall, is crossed by four dams
erected for manufacturing purposes, and for the above space is
not, at this time, and never has been, navigable; but there is a
railroad from Bangor to -the steamboat landing at Old Ten.
On the 30th day of July, 1846, the Legislature of Maine, by
-

572

SUPREME COURT.
Teazie et al. v. Moor.

law enacted, that "William Moor and Daniel Moor, Jr., their
associates.and-assigns, were authorized to improve the navigation of the Penobscot River above Old Town, and for that purpese, were authorized to deepen the channel of the river, to cut
down and rembve any gravel or ledge, bars, rocks, or other obstructions in the bed thereof; to erect in the bed, on the shore
or bairk of said river, suitable dams and locks, with booms,
piers abutments, breakwaters, and other erections to protect the
same; to build upon the shore or bank of said river, any canal
or canals to connect the navigable parts of -aid river, or (in case
it shall be deemed the preferable mode of improvement,) any
railroads for the like purpose.
After providing the modes of acquiring lands or gravel on the
shores or in the bed of the river, and for compensating the
owrqers of -property used in the prosecution of the contemplated
improvement, the act proceeds to limit the lime for the completion of the undertaking,-within particular termini therein.named,
to the period of seven years from its date; and farther roequires
that, within the period thus limited, the grantees shall build and
run a steamboat between those' teirmini, and shall, within the
same time, make a cauial and lock around the falls of the river,
or a railroad to connect the route above -ith that below the
falls;
Then follows sectioh fourth of the statute, containing the
provision objected to. It is in these words: "If said .William
Moor and Daniel Moor, Jr., their associates and assigns, shall
perform the conditions of this grant as contained in the precedihg section, the solr right of navigating said river by boats propelled by steam from said Old Town so far up as they'shall
render the same navigable, is hereby granted to them for the
term of twenty years fom and after the completion of the improvement, as provided in the third section. of this act." The
defendant in error, who is assignee of the original grantees from.
the legislature, having made.certain improvements in the river
by the emoval of rocks, and by deepening the channel in other
places, so as to enable boats to run therein, with two and a half
feet less of water than was requisite for navigation previously
to these improvements, and all within the limit prescribed to
him by law, built, and on the 27th of May, 1847, placed upon
the said river, the steamboat Governor'Neptune, and ran her
from Old Town over the Piscataquis F'alls, to a place called
Nickaton. In the spring of the year 1847, the defendant in err~r
.plgced on the river the steamboat Mattanawcook, and ran her
to Lincoln, ,til-] obstructions were removed by him at a place
called the' Mohawk Rips, above the Piscataquis Falls; and has
also built and is now running upon the river, another steamboat

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

573

Veazie et al. v. Moor.

called the Sam Houston, iw addition to the Governor Neptune
and the Mattanawcook.
The plaintiff in error, Samuel Veazie, built the steamboat
Governor Dana, and, in conjunction with the other plaintiffs, Levi
and Warren R. Young, ran her upon the Penobscot River between
Old Town. and the Piscataquis Falls, from the 10th day of May,
1849, until they were arrested by an injunction granted at the suit
of the defendant in error. The steamboat Governor Dana was
enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, at the custom-house
at Bangor. The Penobscot tribe of Indians own all the islands
in the Penobscot River above Old Town Falls, some of which
they occupy; and *this tribe always have been, and, now are,
under the jurisdiction and guardianship of the State of Maine.
Upon this state of facts agreed, the Supreme Judicial -Court
of Maine, after argument and advisement, at its June term,
1850, decreed, that the plaintiffs in errbr be perpetually enjoined
to desist and refrain from running and employing the steamboat
Governor Dana, propelled by steam, for transporting passengers or
merchandise on said river,' or any part thereof above Old Town,
and also from building, using, and employing, .any other boat
propelled by steam on that part of the said river for that purpose, without the consent of the said Wyman B. S. Moor, obtained according to law, until'the said Moor's exclusive right
shall expire. The court farther decreed to the defendant in
error, the sum of one thousand and fifty-two dollars and fortyfive cents, for damages and expenses incurred by him, by reason
of the interference with his rights on the part of the. plaintiffs
in error.
Upon a comparison of this decree, and of the statute upon
which it is founded, with the provision of the Constitution
alretidy referred to, we are unable to perceive by what rule of
interpretation either the statute or the decree can be brought
within either of the categories comprised in that provision.
These categories are, 1st. Commerce with foreign nations.
2dly. Commerce-amongst the several States. 3dly. Commerce
with the Indian tribes. Taking the term commerce in its
broadest acceptation, kupposing it to embrace not merely traffic,
but the means and vehicles by which it is prosecuted, can it
properly be made to include objects and purposes such as those
contemplated by the ldw under review? Commerce with foreign
nations, must signify commerce which- in some sense is necessarily connected with these nations, transactions which either
immediately, or at some stage of their progress, must be extraterritorial. The phrase can never be applied to transactions
wholly internal, between citizens of the same community, or to
a polity and laws whose ends and purposes and operations are

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie et al. v. Moor.

restricted to the teritory and soil and jurisdiction of such community. Nor can it be properly concluded, that, because the
products of domestic enterprise in agriculture or manufactures,
or in the arts, may ultimately become the subjects of foreign
commerce; that the control of the means or 'the encouragements
by which enterprise is fostered and protected, is legitimately
within the import of the phrase foreig-n commerce, or fairly implied in any investiture of the power to regulate such commerce.
A pretension as far reaching as this, would extend to contracts
between citizen and citizen of the same State, would control the
pursuits of the planter, the grazier, the, manufacturer, the mechanic, the immense operations of the collieries and mines and
furnaces of the country; for there is not one of these avocations,- the results of which may not become the subjects of
foreign commerce, and be borne either by hrnpikes, canals, or
railroads, from point to point within the several States, towards
an ultimate destination, like the one above mentioned. Such a
pretension would effectually prevent or paralyze every effort at
internal improvement by the several States; for it cannot be
supposed, that the States would exhaust their capital and their
credit in the construction of turnpikes, canals, and railroads,
the remuneration derivable from which, and all control over
which, might be immediately ivrested from them, because such
public works would be facilities for a commerce which, whilst
availing itself of those facilities, was unquestionably internal,
although intermediately or ultimately it might become foreign.
The rule here given with respect to the regulation of foreign
commerce, equally excludes from the regulation of commerce
between the States and the Indian tribes the control over turnpikes, canals, or railroads, or the clearing and deepening of
watercourses exclusively within the States, or the management
of the transportation upon and by means of such improvements.
In truth, the power vested in Congress by article 1st, secton
8th of the Constitution, was not designed to operate upon matters like those embraced in the statute of the State of Maine,
and which are essentially local in their nature and extent.. The
design and object of that power, as evinced in the history of
the Constitution, was to establish a perfect equality amongst
the several. States as to commercial rights, and to prevent unjust
and invidious distinctions, which local jealousies or local and
partial interests might be disposed to introd.uce and maintain.
These were the views pressed upon the public attention by the
advocates for the adoption of the Constitution, and in accordance therewith have been the expositions of this instrument
propounded by this court, in decisions quoted by counsel on
either side of this cause, though differently applidd by them.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

575

Boyden v. Burke.
ide The Federalist, Nos. 7 and 11, and the cases of Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 *Wheat.,ft ;. New York v. Milne, 11 Peters, 102;
Brown v. The State of Maiyland, 12 Wheat. 419; and the License cases in 5 -Howard, 504.
The fact of procuring from the collector of-the port of Bangor a license to prosecute the coasting trade f6r the boat placedd
upon the Penobscot by the plaintiff in error, (the Governor
Dana,) does not affect, in the slightest degree, the rights or condition of the parties. These remain precisely as they would
have stood had no such license been obtained. A license to
prosecute the coasting trade, is a warrant tb traverse the waters
washing or bounding the coasts of the United States. Such a
license conveys no privilege to use, free of tolls, or of any condition whatsoever, the. cai.mls constructed by a Stale, or the
watercourses partaking of the character of canals exclusively
within the interior or a State, and made practicable for navigation by the funds of the State, or by privileges she may have
conferred for the accomplishment of the same end. The attempt to use a coasting license for a purpose like this, is, in the
first place, a departure from the obvious meaning of the document. itself, and an abuse -wholly beyond the object and the
power of the government in granting it.
Upon the whole, we are of the opinion that the decision of
the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Maine is in accordance with the 'Constitution of the United States, and ought
to be, and is hereby, affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Judicial Coirt of the State of Maine,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Judicial Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

URIAH A. BOYDEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. EDtAIUND BURKE.

Where an action was brought against the Commissioner of Patents for refusing to
give copies of papers in his office, aid no special damage was set out in the declaration, evidence of the professional pursuits of the applicant was not admis!
sible.

Where the application was. made through a third person, letters of both'parties to
this third person were admissible in evidence, as part of the res gestce.

