SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

THE PHILADELPHIA AND READING RAILROAD COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ELIAS H. DERBY.
Where a suit was brought against a railroad company, by a person who was injured
by a collision, it was correct in the court to instruct the jury, that, if the plaintiff
was lawfully on the road, at the time.of the collision, and the collision Lnd consequent injury to him were caused by the gross negligence of one of the servants of
the defendants, then and there employed on the road, he was entitled to recover,
notwithstanding the circumstances, that the plaintiff was a stockholder in the company, riding by invitation of the President, paying no fare, and not in the usual
passenger cars.
And also, that the fact that the engineer having the control of the colliding locomotive, was forbidden to run on that track at the time, arid had acted in disobedience.
of such orders, was no defence to the action.
A.master is liable for the tortious acts of his servant, wNhen done in the course of his
employment, although they may be done in disobedience of the master's orders.

-THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
C'ourt of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
It was an action on'the case brought by Derby, for an injury
suffered upon the railroad of the plaintiff in error.
The declaration, in ten counts, was, in substance, that on" the
15th day of June, 1848, the defendants, being the owners of the
railroad, and of a certain car engine called the Ariel, received
the plaintiff into the said car, to be safely carried therein, upon,
and over the said railroad, whereby it- became the duty of the
defendants to use proper care and diligence that the plaintiff
should be safely and securely carried, yet, that the defendants,
not regarding their duty in that behalf, conducted themselves so
negligently by their servants, that, by reason of such negligence,
while the ca engine Ariel was upon the road, and the plaintiff
therein, he was precipitated therefroyn upon the ground, and
greatly injured. Defendants pleaded not guilty.
On the 22d of April, 1851, the cause came on to be tried, and

the evidence was, in substance, as follows:
In the month of June, 1848, the plaintiff being a stockholder
in the said railroad company, came to the city of Philadelphia,
for the purpose of inquiring into its affairs, on his own accou'nt
and as the representative of other stockholders. On the.15th
of June, 1848, the plaintiff accompanied John Tucker, Esq., the
President of the ,aid company, over the-railroad, for the purpose
of viewing it and the works of the company.
rhey proceeded in the ordinary passenger train of the company, from the city of 'Philadelphia, (the plaintiff paying no
fare for his passage,) as far as the city of Reading.
On arriving at Reading, the plaintiff inspected the machineshops of the defendants, there situate, and remained for that
purpose about half an hour after the departure of the passen-

DECEM]BER TERM, 1852.

469

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

ger train towards Pottsville, which latter place is about the dis.
tance of ninety-two miles from Philadelphia.
By order of Mr. Tucker, a small locomotive car engine, called
the Ariel was prepared for the purpose of carrying the plaintiff
and Mr. Tucker further up the road. This engine was not constructed, or used, for the business of the said defendants,. but
was kept for the use of the President and other officers of the
company, their friends and guests.
On this engine, the plaintiff and Mr. Tucker, accompanied
by the engineer and fireman, and a paymaster of defendants,
proceeded, folloNing the passenger train, until they reached
Port Clinton, a *stationon the line of the railroad.
After leaving Port Clinton, when about three miles distant
from it, going round a curve, the passengers on the Ariel saw
another engine called the Lycoming, of which S. P. Jones was
the conductor, approaching on the same track. The engineer
of the Ariel immediately reversed his engine, and put down the
break. Mr. Tucker, the plaintiff, and the fireman, jumped from
the ,Ariel, to avoid the. impending collision. After they had
jumped, the engineer also left the Ariel, h4ving done all he
could do to stop it. The plaintiff, in attempting to jump, fell,
and received the injury of which he complains.
The engineer of the Lycoming, when he saw the approach
of the Ariel, reversed his engine and put down the break. He
did not leave the Lycoming till after the collision. At the time
of the collision, the Lycoming was backing. The engines were
but slightly injured by it.
On the night of the 14th or the morning of the 15th of June,
a bridge, on the line of the railroad above Port dlinton, was
burnt. In consequence of this, one of the tracks of the railroad was blocked up by empty cars returning to the rhines, and
stopped by the destruction of the bridge. For this reason a
single track only could be used for the business of the road between Port Clinton and the burnt bridge.
Lewis Kirk, an officer of the said company, (master machinist
and foreman,) went on in the passenger cars from Reading,
towa7rds Pottsville, informing the plaintiff and Mr. Tucker, that
he would' give the proper orders to have the track kept clear for
the Ariel. On arriving at Port Clinton he did give an order to
Edward Burns, despatcher at Port Clint6n, (an officer of said
company, charged with the duty of controlling the starting of
engines,) that rio car should be allowed to go over the road
until he the said Kirk returned.
This order was communicated in express terms by Burns to
Jones; the conductor of the Lycoming. Jones replied that he
would go, and would take the responsibility, and, contrary to
VOL. XIV.

40

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

his orders, did go up the road towars, the burnt bridge, and on
his return met the Aridl, and the collision ensued, as above
stated. Jones had the reputation" of being a careful and competent person, no previous disobedience of orders by him had
ever occurred, and he was discharged by the defendants immediately after the accident, arid because of it.
On the trial the plaintiff below requested the court to charge
the jury,
I. That if the plaintiff was lawfully upon the railroad of the
defendants at the time of the collision, by' the license of the
defendants, and was then and .there injured by the negligence
or disobedience of orders of the company's servants, then and
there employed on the said railroad, the cefendants are liable
for the injury done to the plaintiff by such ,collision.
II. That if the defendants,.by their servants, undertook to
convey the plaintiff along the Reading Railroad, in the car Ariel,
and while so conveying, him, through the gross negligence of
the servants of the compadiy then and there employed on the
said' railroad, the 'collision occurred, by which the plaintiff
-#ras injured, that the defendants are liable for the injury done
to the plaintiff by such collision, although no compensation
was to be paid to the company for such conveyance of the
plaintiff.
IIL That if the collision, by which the plaintiff was injured,
-was occasioned by the locomotive Lycoming, then driven negligently'or in disobedience of orders upon the said road by J. P.
Jones, bne of the company's servants, then having control or
command of the said locomotive, that the defendants are liable
for the injuryfo the plaintiffs, caused by such collision.
'And' the counsel for the defendants below requested the court
to charge the jury, - 1. That the damages, if any are recoverable, are to be confined to the direct and immediate consequences of the injury
sustained.
2. That if the jury believe the plaintiff had paid no fare, and
was passing upon the-raih'oad of the defendant as an invited
guest, in order to entitle him to recover damages he must prove
gross negligence, which is the omission of that care which even
.the most thoughtless take of their own concerns.
. That the defendants would be liable in damages to a passenger who had paid p .ssage-money up:on their contract to
deliver him safely, for slight negligence, but to an invited guest,
who'paid no. fare or passage-money, they 'will not be responsible
'unless the jury believe that there was not even slight diligence
on the part of the agents of the defendants.
4. That the employer is not responsible for the wilful act of
hi 'servant.

DECEMBER TERM 1852.

471

Pliladelphia and Reading Railroad Company.v. Derby.

5. That if the jury believe that the conductor of the engine
Lycoming wilfully, and against the express orders of the officer
of the company communicated to tim, by running his engine
upon the track above Port Clinton, caused the collision, the defendants are not responsible for any injury or loss resulting from
such -wilful disobedience.
6. That if the jury believe that every reasonable and proper
precaution was taken to have. the track of the railroad clear for
the passage of the Ariel, and collision ensued solely by reason
of the wilful disobedience of the conductor of the Lycoming,
and of the express orders duly given by an agent, of the company, the plaintiff eannot recover.
7. That if the jury believe that the conductor of the Lycoming, and all the officers of the company in any wise connected
-with the collision, were carefully and prudently selected, and
that the collision ensued and the injury resulted to the plaintiff,
an invited guest, by the wilful disobedience of one, of them to an
order duly communicated, then the plaintiff cannot recover.
The learned Judge charged the jury as -equested, on all the
points offered by the plaintiff.
And the learned Judge charged on the first and second points
offered by the defendants, as requested, and also on the third
point of the defendants, with the explanation, that though all
the other agents of the defendants acted with diligence, yet if
-ne of the agent§ used no diligence at all, then the defendants
•ould not be said to have shown slight diligence.
As to the fourth point, the learned Judge charged as requested
by the defendants, with this explanation, that though the master
is not liable for the wilful act of his servant, not done in the
course 6f his employment as servaint yet if the servant disobeys
an order relating to his business, and injury results from that
disobedience, the master is liable, for it is his duty to select servants who will obey. The disobedience in this case is the ipsa
ncligentip, for it is not pretended by the defendants that the
Lycoming was intentionally driven against the Ariel.
On the fifth, sixth, and seventh points of the defendants, the
learned Judge refused to charge as requested.
The learned Judge further said, that it is admitted that the
plaintiff was injured through the act of Jones, the conductor of
the Lycoming, that the plaintiff was lawfully on the road by'
the license of the defendants; then, in this view of the case,
whether he paid fare or not, or was the guest of.the defendants,
made no difference as to the law of.the case.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and assessed the
damages t three thousand dollars.
A writ of error brought the case up to this sourt.

472

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

It was argued by -Mr.Campbell and Mr. Fisher, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Binney and Mr. Wharton, for the defendant
In error.
The-points made by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, were
the following:
I. The plaintiff stood in such relation to the'defendants at
the time of the accident, that he cannot by law recover.
II. The plaintiff sutferedn.o damage fron any act with which
tbe defendants are by law chargeable.
These propositions cover the whole case; yet it may be proper
-to direct the attention of the court to two others, which, although
included in the latter, are made more specific by referring to the
points and charge of the court.
III. That the learned Judge erred while affirming the third
and fourth pointN of the defendants, in the explanation by which
that instruction was accompanied. The points and explanvtions referred to, were,
3. That the defendants would be liable in damages to a passenger who had paid passage-money, upon- their contract to
deliver him safely, for slight negligence; but to an invited guest,
who paid no fare, or passagermoney, they will not be responsible,
unless the -jury believe that there was not even slight diligence
on the part of the agents of the defendants.
4. That the employer is not responsible for the wilful act of
his servarnt or agent.
The learned Judge .charged as requested on the third point,
with the explanation, that though all the other agents of the
defendants- acted with diligence, yet, if one of the agents used
,O diligence at all, then the defendants could, not be said to
have shoWn slight diligence.
The learned Judge also charged as requested on the fourth
point- Nvith this explanation, that though the master is not liable
for the, wilful *act of his servant, not done in the course of his
employment as servant, yet, if the servant disobeys an order
relating to his business, and injury r~sults from that disobedience,
the master. is liable; for it is his duty to select servants who -will
obey. The disobedience in this case is the ipsa neglgentia,for
it is not pretended by the defendants that the Lycoming was
intentionally driven against the Ariel.
IV. The learned Judge erred in refusing to charge as requested by the 5th, 6th, and 7th points of the defendants.
5. That if the iury believe that the conductor of the engine
Lycoming wilfully, and against the express orders of the officer,
of the company, communicated to him, by running his engine
upon the track above Port -Clinton, caused the collision, the de-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

473

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v, Derby.

fendants are not responsible for any injury or loss resulting from
such ixlful disobedience.
6. That if the jury believe every reasonable- and proper precaution was taken to have the track of the railroad clear for the
passage of the Ariel, and the collision ensued solely by reason
of the wilful disobedience of the conductor of the Lycoming,
and of the expres§ orders duly given by an agent of the company,
the plaintiff cannot recover.
7. That if the jury believe that the conductor of the Lycoming, and all the officers of the company, iiany wise connected
with the collision, were carefully and prudently selected, and
that the collision ensued, and the injury resulted to the plaintiff,
an invited guest, by the wilful disobedience of one of them to
an order duly communicated, then the plaintiff cannot recover.
I. The plaintiff stood in such relation to the defendants at the
time of the accident, that he cannot by law recover.
The plaintiff was a stockholder of the*defendants; he was.
on the road as an invited guest, and paid no fare; was not carried in the way of their business, nor in a car used for such purpose. He voluntarily left the passenger train at Reading, and
took his seat in the Ariel, with full knowledge of the service to
which it was devoted, and the character df the engine itself. He
was himself the president of a railroad company.
Being no passenger, and not carried by the company, even
gratuitqusly, in the way of their business, he was in the car and
was carried as a stockholder and a guest.
What were his legal rights, and what the obligations of the
defendants?
It was contended:
1. That no cause of action can arise to any person by reason
of the occurrence of an inintentional injury while he is receiving or partaldng of any of those acts of kindness which spring
from mere socrd relations. No contract exists, and no such auty
as can give a cause of action, is by law cast upon either party
in such relation. Such was the position of the plaintiff.
Upon principles somewhat analogous to the one now presented
it has been ruled, " Si un hoste invite un al supper, et le nult
esteant farr spent et luy invite a stayer la tout le nuit, fit soit
apres robbe uncore le hoste ne serra charge pur ceo, car cest
gue-t ne fuit ascur traveller. 1 Rolle's Abr. 3.
"And if a man set his horse at an inn, though he lodge at
another place, that makes him a guest, for the innkeeper gains
by the horse, and therefore that makes the owner a guest, though
he be absent. Contra, if goods left there by a man, because
the innk eeper hath no advantage by them." York v. Grenaugh,
2 Ld. R. 868.

.474

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

"1So where one leaves his horse at an inn, to stand there by
agreement, at livery, although neither himself nor any of his
seE Vants lodge there, he is reputed a guest fbr that purpose, and
the innkeeper hath a valuable consideration, and if that horse
be stolen, he hath an action upon the common custom of the
realm. But, as in the case at bar, where he leaves goods to
keep, whereof the defendant is not t6 have any benefit, and goes
'Irom thence for two -or three days, although he saith he will return, yet he is at liberty, and is rot a guest luring that time, nor
is the innkeeper chargeable as a common Lostler for the goods
stolefi during'that time, unless he make a special promise for
the safe keeping of them, and the. action ought to be grounded
upon it.". Greeley v. Clark, Cr. Jac. I88.
"For if a man be lodged with another who is not an innholder on request, if he be robbed in his house by the servants
of him who lodged him, or any other, he shall not answer for
it.' Cayle's case, 4 Rep. 32.
"And therefore, if a neighbor who is no traveller, as a fi'nd,
at the request of the innholder, lodges there, and his goods be
stolen, &C., he shall not have an ction." Cayle's case, Id. 33.
The principles on which rights and obligations, arising from
particular relations, are founded, are sta:ed by Shaw, C. J.
in Farwel v. Boston & Worcester Railroad Co. 4 Metcalf, 58.
And it maybe proper to refer to that class of cases based upon
the principle, that unless the parties met upon the terms of contract, none can be inferred, or, in the words of Mr. Justice Williams, in Davies v. Davies, (38 Engl. C. L. R. 46,) that the evidence must show "that the parties came there on the terms that
they were to pay and be paid, but if that 'vas not so, there can
be no ex poste facto charge made on either side."
And to the samp effect are the actions brought upon claims
for services rendered, when the relations o" the parties do not
justify the inference of contract , - Strine v. Parsons, 5 Watts &
!S.357. The case of a: woman who lived with the decedent
(whose state was sued) as his wife. Walker's Estate, 3 Rawle,
3. An action by a son f6r services rendered after he arrived
'at full age. And also Candor's Appeal, .5 Watts & S. 216;
Hacks v. Stewart, 8 Barr, 213.
2. The plaintiff, being a stockholder as well as guest, and
availing himself of an opportunity to 'inspect, for his own interest as for that of others, the line of the road, their shops, &c.,
he cannot, by reason also of this relation, recover.
He was inthe car, as already stated, as a stockholder, and not
carried by the company in the way of their business, but for his
own benefit, and for the interest of other stockholders whom he
represented) and for whom he was acting as agent. No contract

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

475

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

was entered into with him, and he occupied, in this regard, no
other relation than any other officer or agent of the company or
coproprietor of the road.
One agent injuredby another agent, cannot recover from their
common' principal. Farwell v. Boston & Worcester Railroad
Co. 4 Metcalf R. 49 ; Brown v. Maxwell, 6 Hill, 592;- Murray
v. South Carolina Railroad Co. 1 McMullan, 385; Coon v.
Railroad Co. 6 Barbour, 231; Priestly v. Fowler, 3 Mees. &
Welsb. 1.
If the defendant in error owned half the stock of the road,
or being so the owner, the company was unincorporated, (its
charter cannot affect this relation,) or if the charter had created
an individual liability in the shareholders, what duty did the
law impose upon the other _proprietors towards him, while he
was on the road by their license, without compensation, to inspect its condition for his own benefit? It is submitted he went
there like any other tenant in common, or joint proprietor,
without right to claim against his coproprietors for the negligence of any of their common servants.
Il. The plaintiff suffered no damage from any act with which
the defendants are by law chargeable.
,The gist of the action is, the neglect by the servant of the
defendants of some duty imposed upon them by law, for which
negligence they are solight to be held responsible.
1. It is first to be observed, that this liability of the defendants, if any, is not affected by their corporate character, and if
under like circumstances an individual would not be liable, a
corporation will not.
"A corporation will be liable for an injury done by its servants, if under like circumstances an individual would be responsible." The First Baptist Church v. Schenectady & Tr. R.
R. Co. 5 Barb. Sup. Ct. Rep. N. Y. 79. "Indeed the same rule
should be applied to a corporation as should be applied to
an individual who barries on a business solely through the
medium of. agents and servants." Pratt, J., Coon v. The Utica
R. R. Co. 6 Barb. S. C. R. 231; Philadelphia R. R. Co. v. Wilt,
4 Wharton, R. 146.
" The power and duty of an engine driver must be the same,
simply as such, whether he be employed by a corporation, or a
joint stock company, or an ordinary partnership, or an individual.
The driver appointed by a corporation, or company, or partnership, carrying on the business of carriers of passengers or goods,
must, as such, have the same duties and powers." Per Parke, B.
3 Welsby, H. & G. 277; Con. v. L R. Co.
2. That an individual would not, under the facts in this case,
have been liable, is, it is submitted, clear, from the following

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and. Reading Railroad Company v. Perby.

afthorities, and the principles-upon which the decisions are
based:
"A. master is chargeable with the ac- of his servant, but
when he acts in the execution of the authority given him by
his-master, and then the act of the servant is the act of the
,master." Per Holt, C. J., Middleton v. Fowler, 1 Salk. 282.
"In civil matters, to render one man amenable for another's
misconduct, it must ever ba established that the latter, in commifting the injury, was all the while acting under the authority,
and with the assent, express or implied, of the former." HEhmmond's Nisi Prius, 80.
".Hence it is, that the principal is never liable for the unauthorized, the wilful, or the malicious act or trespass of the
agent" Per Story, J., Princip. and Agt. § 456.
In McManus v. Crickett, Lord Kenyon cites these cases, as
illustrating the rule:
"1If my servant, contrary to my will, chase my beasts into
the soil of another, I shall not be punished."
11If I command my servant to distrain, and he ride on the
distress, he shall be punished, not I." 1 East, 106:
"In order to render a master liable for a trespass committed
by the servant, it is necessary to show that the acts were done
while the servant was aeting under the authority of the master.
. . . To render him liable; it must be shown that the commission of the trespasses was in- the execution of his order, or
with his assent or approbation." Per Waite, J., Church v.
Mansfield, 20 Conn. 287.
In Armstrong v. Cooley, (5 Gill's Rep. 512,) it was said, by
Treat, C. J., 1" Even when the act is lawful, the principal is respqnsible for the manner of its performance, if done in the
course of his employment, and not in wilful violation of his in.
structions." Thus declaring that, in the latter case, he would
not be liable.
"It should here be observed, that the ground of the principal's
liability.cannot be that he has selected an agent who is more or
less unworthy, and placed him in a situation which enables him
to become the instrument of mischief to his neighbor, because
hat wouid hold him responsible; not alone for the acts done by
the other, in his capacity quatenus agent, but even for a wilful
default?' Ham. N. P. 81. 1
This principle is exemplified in the case next cited, which,
with the following, it is submitted, rule the cause now before
the court.
Joel v. lorrison, 25 Eng. C. L. Rep. 512. In this case, the
plaintiff was knocked down by the defendant's horse and cart,
then driven by one of his servants. accompanied by another.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

477

Philadelphia and Reading Pailroad Company v. Derby.

The defendant proved that his horse and cart were only in the
habit of being driven out of the city, and did not go into the
city (where the act happened) at all. Thesiger, counsel for the
plaintiff, suggested that the defendant's servants might have
gone out of their vay, for their own purposes, or might have
taken the cart at a time when it was not wanted for the pur-.
pose of business, and have gone to pay a visit to some friend.
He was observing that, under these circumstances, the defendant was liable for the acts of his servants-but, per Parke, B.,
"He is not liable, if, as you suggest, these young men took the
cart without leave."
Wilson v. Peverley, (2 N. Hamp. Rep. 548,) was an action on
the case against the master. It appeared that, by the defendant's orders, a fire was set on his land, and the charge of it given
to a hired laborer. That the defendant left home, dire~ting the
laborer, after setting th6 fire, to employ himself in harrowing
other land in the neighborhoodi. That the laborer, after his
master's absence, and before he comnenced harrowing, carried
brands from that fire into the ploughing field, to consume some'
piles of wood and brush there collected, ank on his way droppea
some coals, from which another fire arose, and did all the injury
complained of. That carrying fire from one field to another was
dangerous, and was not in conformity to any express authority
of his master; that the laborer was accustomed to work under
the particular directions of his master, and could conveniently
have harrowed, without first burning the piles of wood, though
to burn them first is the usual course of good husbandry. A
verdict was taken for the plaintiff, subject to the opinion of the
court. Judgment was afterwards given for the defendant, and
the Judge (Woodbury) said: "The next ground on- which a
master is liable for wrongs of his servant, is, that the wrongs are
performed by the servant in'the neglieat and unskilful. execution of business specially intrusted to the servant, but the principle does not reach wrongs caused by carelessness in the performance of an act, not directed by the master, as a piece of
business of some third person, or of the servant himself, or
of the master, but which the master did not, either expressly
or impliedly, direct him to perform.

.

.

. Thus, a piec6

of labor might be very properly performed at one time, and
not at another; as, in this case, the setting of a fire in the
neighborhood of much combustible matter. And if the master,
when the fire would be highly dangerous in such a place, forbore
to direct it to be kindled, and employed his servant in other
business, it would be unreasonable to make him liable, if the
servant, before attending to that business, went in his own discretion, and kindled the fire to the damage of third persons,

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

The master quoad hoc, is not acting in person, or through the
servant, neither per se, nor per aliud, and. the doctrine of respondeat superior, does not apply to such an act, it being the
sole act of the servant."
It appears by tie evidence, as applied to these rules:
1. Jones was not acting in execution of the authority given
lfim by his master, the company, which is deemed essential by
Lord Holt.
2. In committing the injury, he was not all the while, or at
any time, acting under the authority, or with the assent of the
company, things, says Hammond, ever to be established to
make the principal liable.
3. His act was contrary to the will and express direction of
the company, which, under the cases approved by Lord Kenyon;
in McManus v. Crickett, ,ould discharge the master from liability.
4. The company directed him to do one thing, and not to do
another;' yet, he did the latter, and did not do the former; therefore, according to the rule approved by Lord Kenyon, he, and
not the company, is liable to the plaintiff.
5. His Whole conduct was unauthorized by the defendants,
who are, therefore, not liable, under the authority of Story and
Waite- Js
6. His acts were '1 in wilful violation of his instructions,"
and, therefore, as stated in the opinion of Treat, C. J., the defendants are not liable.
7. He took and run the car "without leave," in which case,
says Parke, B., the principal is "not liable."
8. Nor are the defendants liable because Jones was in the
performance of a piece of business of the defendants, because
they did not, either expressly or impliedly, direct him to perform
it; and if, as Judge Woodbury said, it would be unreasonable
to make the principal liable for an act done by the servant,
without authority, but only on his own discretion, with what
reason can the principal be made responsible for.tile wilful violation of his orders?
It is hence- submitted, that the defendants are not by' law
chargeable with the damages reihlting from the wilful and dis.
obedient act of one of their servants, and that the second point
is maintained.
(The argument upon the remaining points, is necessarily
omitted.)
The.points made by the counsel for the defendant in error,
were the sameruled by the court'below, ard were stated as follows:

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

479

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

The three points made by the defendant in error, and affirmed
by his honor, Judge Grier, who tried the cause, are found on the
record. -They are as follows:
I. That if the plaintiff was lawfully upon the railroad of the
defendants, at the time of the collision, by 'the license of the
defendants, and was then and there injured by the negligence
or disobedience of orders of the company's servants, then and
there employed upon the said railroad, the defendants are
liable for the injury done to the plaintiff by such collision.
Two principles sustain this point.
I. That every person (or corporation) whose negligeince or
carelessness causes damage to another person, is prima facie
responsible to such person therefor.
II. That a corporation is liable to third persons for the damage
done by its servants through negligence or disobedience of orders,
in the course of their employment.
1.To the first principle, as an axiom of the law, it is not
deemreed necessary to cite authorities.
II. In support of the second, the authorities which follow are
cited, the principles being first given as stated by emii ent textwriters.
In Story on Agency, p. 465, ch. 17, § 452, the rule is laid down
as follows:
" It is a general doctrine of law, that, although the principal
is not ordinarily liable, (though he sometimes is,) in a criminal
suit, for the acts or misdeeds of his agent, unless, indeed, he.
has authorized or cooperated in those acts or.misdeeds; yeti he
is held liable to, third persons in a civil suit for the frauds, deceits, concealments, misrepresentations, torts, negligences, and
other malfeasances or misfeasances and omissions of duty of
his agent in the course of his employment, although the principal did not authorize, or justify, or participate in, or, indeed,
know of such misconduct, or even if he forbade them, or disapproved of them. In all such cases, the rule applies, Bespondeat
szpcrior-; and it is founded upon public policy apd convenience;,
for in no other way could there be any safety to third persons in
their dealings, either directly with the principals, or indirectly
with him through the instrumentality of agents. In every such
case, the principal holds out his agent as competent, and fit to
be trusted; and thereby, in effect, he warrants his fidelity and
good conduct in all matters of the agency." And in note 2,
the learned author, in commenting upon a passage-in I Blackstone's Comm. 432, adds, "for the -master is liable for the wrong
and negligence of his servant, just as much when it- has been
done contrary to his orders and against his intent, as he is, when
he has cooperated in, or known the wrong."

480

SUPREME

COURT.

.Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

"A master is ordinarily liable to answer in a civil suit for the
tortious or wrongful acts of his servant, if those acts"are done
in the course of his employment in his master's service; the
maxims applicable to, such cases, being, Respondeat superior,
and Qui facitper alium, facit per se. This rule, with some few
exceptions, is of universal application, whether the act of the
servant be one of omission or commission, whether negligent,
fraudulent, or deceitful, or even if it be ar act of positivi Malfeasance or misconduct; if it be done in the course of his employment his master is regponsible for "*t, civiliter, to third
persons. And it makes no difference that the master did not
authorize, or even know of the servant's act or neglect; for even
if he disapproved of or forbade it, he is equally liable, if the act
be done in the course of the servant's employment. Smith on
MNaster and Servant, p. 152; Law Lib. Jan. f852, p. 130.
""
If a servant is acting in the execution of his master's orders,
and by his negligence causes injury to a third party, the master
will be responsible, although the servant's act was not necessary
for the proper performance of his -duty to his master, or was
even, contrary to his master's orders." Smith on Master and
Servant, p. 157; Law Lib. Jan. 1852,'p. 134.
The following authorities establish conclusively the principles
above stated. Sleath v. Wilson, 9 Carrington & Payne, 607,
(38 E. C. L. 249.)
If a servant, without his master's knowledge, take his master's carriage out of the coach-house, 'and with it commit an
injury, the master is not liable; because he has not in such case
intrusted the servant with the carriage. Bat whenever the master has intrusted the servant with the cont-:ol of the carriage, it
is no answer that the servant acted improperly in the management of it; but the master, in such case, v.rill be liable, because
he has put it ip the servant's power to mismanage the carriage,
bjy intrusting him with it. Therefore, where a servant, having
set his master down in Stamford street, was directed by him to
put up in Castle street Leicester Square; but instead of so
doing, went to deliver a parcel of his own, in the Old Street
Road, and in returning albng it, drove against an old woman,
and injured her; it was held, that the masteKr was responsible for
his servait's act.
Mr. Justice Erskine states the law in the clearest manner.
"Whenever the master has intrusted the servant with the control of the carriage, it is no answer that the servant acted
improperly in the management of it. If it were, it might be
contended that if a master directs his servant to @ive slowly,
and the servant disobeys his orders and drives fast, and through
his negligence occasions an injury, the master will not be .liable.

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

481

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

But that is not the law: the master, in such a.case, will be liable,
and the ground is, that he has put it in the servant's power to
mismanage the carriage, by intrusting him with it."
The case of Joel v. Morrison, (6 Carrington & Payne, 501,
25 E. C. L. 511,) is to the same point,-but the servant in
that case was acting against his master's implied commands,
-and not his express. The master was held liable. In Brown v.
Copley, (7 Mann. & Granger, 566, 49 E. C. L. 566,) Sergeant
Talfourd, argutendo, puts the case, previously put by way of
illustration by Mr. Justice Erskine, in Sleath v. *Wilson,"As, if a coachman were drivFig his master, and w'r,: ordered
not to drive so fast, but he nevertheless continued to do so,
the master would be responsible for the injury." To which
Mlr. Justice Cresswell assents, saying,-"In that case, the
coachman would still be driving for his master, though driving
badly."
It is not pretended, in the present case, that Jones disobeyed
the order given him, to attend to any private business of his
own; he was still "driving" (his locomotive) "for his master,"
"though driving badly."
Nor did the damage ensue from me breach of the .exl, ess
order not to run up the railroad until the Ariel had passed.
Jones ran his locomotive up the.road without harming any o .e.
It was on his return down the road that he encountered the
Ariel.
And in Croft v. Alison, (4 Barn. & Aid. 590, 6 E. C. L. 528,)
in an action for the negligent driving of the defendant's
coachman, whereby the plaintiff's carriage was upset, it appeared that the accident arose from the defendant's coachman
striking the plaintiff's horses with his whllip, in consequence of
which they moved forward, and the carriage was overturned.
At the time when the horses were struck, the two carriages
were entangled. The defendant was held liable for the damage
caused by his servant's act, although wanton, as It was done
in pursuance of his employment. And ver curiam, "The distinction is this; if a servant driving a carriage, in order to effect
some purpose of his own, wantonly strikes the horses of another
person, and produce the accident, the master will not be liable.
But if, in order to perform his master's orders, he strikes, but
ifijudiciously, and in order to extricate.himself from a difficulty,
that will be negligent and careless conduct, for which-the master
will be liable, being an act done in pursuance of the servant's
employment."
The third point of the defendant in error, and sustained by
his Honor who tried the cause, is as follows:
III. That if the collision by which the plaintiff was injured
VOL. -XIV.
4i

-482

SUPREME

COURT.

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company -v. Derby.

was occasioned by the locomotive Lycoming, then driven neg.
ligently, or in disobedience of orders, upon the said road, by
J. P. Jones, one of the company's servants, then having control
or command of the said locomotive, that the defendants are
liable for the injury to the plaintiff, caused by such collision.
This point merely applies the general principles of the first
point to the facts proved, and is virtually comprehended in it.
It therefore needs no further notice.
The second point of the defendant in error, sustained by his
Honor who tried the cause, is as follows:
II. That if the defendants, by their servants, undertook to
convey the, plaintiff along the Reading Railroad, in the car
Ariel, and while so conveying him, through the gross negligence of the servants of the company, then and there employed
upon-the said railroad, the collision occurred by which the
plaintiff was injured, that the defendants are liable for the injury done to the plaintiff by such collision, although no compensation was to be paid to the company for sudh conveyance
of the plaintiff.
The principle of. this point is identical with that of the
second point presented by the plaintiffs in error themselves, and
which was duly affirmed by his Honor in his charge, and the
principle is-in entire harmony with the third point of the plaintiffs in error, which was also duly affirmed by his Honor.
As both parties, therefore, seem to have agreed in their views
on these points. as presented as above to his Honor for adoption, and which vere duly ad.opted by him, it can hardly be
necessary to refer to the authorities on which the doctrine is
based.
The leading case in point is that of Coggs v. Barnard, (Lord
Raymond, 909,) the celebrated case under the law of bailments.
The principle of that case is that, "If a man undertakes to
carry goods safely and sEcurely, he is responsible for any
damage they Ifiay sustain ir!
the carriage through his neglect,
though he was not a common-carrier, and was to have rothing
for the carriage."
This base has, been commented upon with great ability, and
at -much length in 1 Smith's Leading Cases, p. 82, and the
American authorities upon the -point are collected by Messrs.
Hare and Wallace, p. 227.
Mr. Sinith states the genera" principle in these words, viz.
"The confidence induced by undertaking any service for another,
is a sufficient legal consideration to create a duty in the performance of -it."
Among the numerous American cases affirming this principle,
is Thorne v. Deas, (4 Johns. 84,) in which Chief Justice Kent

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

483

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

says, "If a party who makes this engagement," (the gratuitous
performance of business for 6nother,) "enters upon the execu-,
tion of the business, and does it amiss, through the want of due
care, by which damage ensues to the other party, an action will
lie for this misfeasance."
A principle to which the defendant in error's second point
also refers, is the liability of an unpaid agent for gross negligence only.
In the later cases, the English courts have found considerable
difficulty in distinguishing with precision between negligence
and gross negligence. In Wilson v. Br~tt, (11 Mees. & Wels.
113,) Baron IRolfe observes, "1that he could see no difference bUtween negligence and gross negligence; that it was the same
thing, with the addition of a vituperative"epithet."
And see Hare and Wallace's American note, p. 242, with the
American cases there cited, and which are collected and commented on at much length, and the true principle stated, that
any negligent conduct, which causes injury or loss, is actionable.
The defendant in error might perhaps have been entitled to
ask the benefi of a rule less rigid in its bearing-upon himself;
but as the conduct of the railroad company in discharging
Jories, the conductor, showed their own estimate of the grossness of the negligence in question, the defendant in error was
content to ask the ruling of the point in its milder form, afid the
finding of the jury established the grossnessi of the negligence.
The question of what is gross negligence beipg for the jury,
see Storer v. Gowen, 6 Shepley, 174; -Whitney v. Lee, 8
Metcalf, 91; Angell on Carriers, p. 12.
Mr. Justice GRIER deliverea the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by Derby, the plaintiff below, to
recover damages for an injury suffered on the railroad of the
plaintiffs in error. The peculiar facts of the case, involving the
questions of law presented for our consideration, are these:
The plaintiff below was himself the president of another
railroad company, and a stockholder in this. He was on the
road of defendants by invitation of the president of the company, not in the usual passenger cars, but in a smai'locomotive
car used for the convenience of the officers of the company, and
paid no fare for his transportation. The injury-to his person
was caused by coming into collision with a locomotive and
tender, in the charge of an agent or servant of the company,
which was on the same track, and moving in"
an opposite direction. Another agent of the company, in the exercise of proper
care and caution, had'given orders to keep this track clear.. The

484

SUPREME

COURT.

Philadelphih and- Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

driver of the colliding engine acted in disobedience and disregard of these orders, and thus caused the collision.
The instructions given by the court below, at the instance of
plaintiff, as well as those requested by the defendant, and refused
by the court, taken together, involve but two distinct points,
which have been the subject of exception here, and are in substance as follows:
1. The court instructed the jury, that if the plaintiff was lawfully on the road at the time of the collision, and the collision
and consequent injury to him were. caused by the gross negligence of one of the servants of the defendants, then and there
ermployed on the road, he is entitled to recover, notwithstanding,
the circumstanees given in evidence, and relied upon by defendant's counsel as forming a defence to the action, to wit: that
the plaintiff was a stockholder in the company, riding by invitation of the president-paying no fare, and not in the usual passenger cars, &c.
2. That the fact that the engineer having the control of the
colliding locomotive, was forbidden to run on that track at the
time, and had acted in disobedience of such orders, was not a
defence to the action.
1st. In support of the objections to the firsi instru6tion, it is
alleged, "that no cause of action can arise to any person by
reason of the occurrence of an unintentional injury, while he is
receiving or partaking of any of those acts of kindness which
spring from mer6 social relations; and that as there waq no contiact between the parties, express or implied, the law would raise
no duty as between them, for the negle, t of which an action
can be sustained.!'
In support of these positions, the cases between innkeeper
and guest have been cited, such as 1 RoUe's Abr. 3, where it is
said, "If a host invite one to supper, and the night being far
spei t, he invites him to stay all night, and the guest be robbed,
yet the host shall-not be chargeable, because the guest was-not
a traveller; V and Cayle's case, (4 Rep. 52,) to the same effect,
showing that the peculiai liability of an innkeeper arises from
-the consideration paid for his entertainment of travellers, and
does not exist in the case of gratuitous Lodging of friends or
guests. The case of Farwell v. The Boston and Worcester
Railroad Company, (4- Metcalf, 47,) has also been cited, showing that the naster is not liable for any injury received by one
.of his servants, in consequence of the carelessness of another,
While both are engaged in the same service.
But we are of opinion, that these cases have no applicaticn
to the present- The liability of the defendants below, for the
negligent an,& injurious act of their servant, is not necessarily

DECEM-iER TERM, 1852.

485

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

founded on any contract or privity between the parties, nor
affected by any relation, social or otherwise, which they bore to
each other. It is true, a traveller, by stage coacb, or other public conveyance, who is injured by the negligence of the driver,
has an action against the owner, founded on his contract td
carry him safely. But the maxim of 'krespondeat supeHor,"
which, by legal imputation, makes the master liable for the acts
of his servant, is wholly irrespective of any contract, expiess oi
implied, or any other relation between the injured party and the
master., If one be lawfully on the street or highway, and
another's servant carelessly drives a stage or carriage against
him, dnd injures his property or person, it is no answer to an
action against the master for such injury, either, that the plaintiff Wvas riding for pleasure, or that he was a stockholdek in the
road, or-that he had not paid his toll, or that he was the.guest
of the defendant, or riding in a carriage borrowed from him, or
that the defendant was the friend, benefactor, or brother of the
plaintiff. These arguments, arising from the social or domesti6
relations of life may, in some cases, 'successfully appeal to thefeelings of the" plaintiff, but will usually have.ittle effect where
the defendant is a corporation, which is-itself incapable of such
relations or the reciprocation of such feelings.
In this view of the case, if the plaintiff was lawfily on the
road at the time of the collision, the court- were right in'instructing the jury that none of the antecedent circumstances, or accidents of his situation, could affect 'his right to recover.
It is a act peculiar to this case, that the defendants, who are.
liable for the act of their servant coming down the-road, are also
the carriers who were conveying the 'plaintiff -up the road, and
that their servants immediately engaged'in transporting the
plaintiff were not guilty of any negligence, or in fault, for the
collision. But we would not have it inferred, from what -has
been said, that the circumstances alleged in the 'first point wduld
affect the case, if the negligence'-which caused the injury had
been committed by the agents of the company who were inthe
immediate care of the eneine and car in which the plaintiff
rode, and he was compelled to rely on these counts of his declaration, founded on the duty of the defendani to carry him
safely. This duty does not result alone from the consideration
paid for the service. It is imposed by the law, even where the
service is gratuitous: "1The confidence induced by undertaking
any service for another, is a sufficient legal consideration to create
a duty in the performance of it." See Coggs v. Bernard, and
cases cited in 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 95. It is true* a distinction has been taken, in some cases, between simple negligence, and great or gross negligence ; andl it is said, that one who
41*

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

acts gratuitously is liable only for the latter. But this case does
not call upon us to define the difference, (if it be capable of
definition,) as the verdict has found this to be a case of gross
negligence.
When carriers undertake to convey persons by the powerul
but dangerous agency of steam, public policy and safety require
that they be held to the greatest possible care and diligence.
And whether the consideration for such transportation be pecuniary or otherwise, the personal safety of the passengers should
not be left to the sport of chance or the negligence of careless
agents. Any negligence, in such cases, may, well deserve the
epithet of "gross."
In this view of. the case, also, we think there was no error in
the first instruction.
2. The second instruction involves the question of the liability
of the master where the servant is in the course of his employment, but, in the matter complained of, has acted contrary to the
express command of his master.
The rule of "respondeat superior," or that the master shall be
civilly liable for the tortious acts of his servant, is of universal
application, whether the act be one of cmission or commission, whether negligent, fraudulent, or deceitful. If it be done
in the course of his employment, the master is liable; and it
makes no difference that the master did not authorize, or even
know of the servant's act or neglect, or even if he disapproved
or forbade it,.he is equally liable, if the act be done in the course
of his servant's employment. See Story on Agency, § 462;
Smith on Master and Servant, 152.
There may be found, in some of the numerous cases reported
on this subject, dicta which, when severed from the context,
might seem to countenance the doctrine tiat the master is not
liable if the act of his servant was in disobedience of his orders.
But a more careful examination will show that they depended
on the question, whether the servant, at the time he did the act
complained of, was acting in the course o! his employment, or
in other w ords, whether he was or was not at the time in the
relation of servant to the defendant.
The case of Sleath v. Wilson,-(9 Car. & Payne, 607,) states
the law in such cases distinctly and correctly.
In that case a servant, having his master's carriage and horses
in his possession and control, was directed to take them to a
certain place; but instead of doing so he went in another direction to deliver a parcel of his own, and, returning, drove
against an Old woman and injured her. Ihere the master was
held liable for the act of the servant, though at the time he
commItted -the offence, he was acting in disregard of his mag-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

487

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby.

ter's orders; because the master had intrusted the carriage to
his control and care, and in driving it he was aefing in the
course of his employment. Mr. Justice Erskine remarks, in this
case: "It is quite clear that if a servant, without his master's
knowledge, takes his master's carriage out of the coach-house,
and with it commits an injury, the master is not answerable, and
on this ground, that the master has not intrusted the servant
with the carriage; but whenever the master has intrusted the
servant with the control, of the carriage, it is no answer, that
the servant acted improperly in the management of it. If it
were, it might be contended that if a master directs his servant
to drive slodly, and the servant disobeys his orders, and drives
fast, and through his negligence occasions an injury, the master
will not be liable. But that is not the law; the master, in such
a case, will be liable, and the ground is, that he has put it in the
servant's power to mismanage the carriage,' by intrusting him
with it."
Although, among the numerous cases on this subject, some
may be found (such as the case of Lamb v.Palk, 9 C. & P.
629) in which the court have made some distinctions which are
rather subtile and astute, as to when the servant may be said to
be acting in the- employ of his master; yet we find no case
which asserts the doctrine that a master is not liable for the acts
of a servant in his employment, when the particular act causing
the injury was done in disregard of the general orders or special
command of the master. Such a qualification of the maxim
of respondeat superior,-would, in a measure, nullify it. A large
proportion of the accidents on railroads are caused by the negligence of the servants or agents of the company. Nothing
but the most stringent enforcement of discipline, and the most
exact and perfect obedience to every rule and order emanating from a superior, can insure safety to life qnd property.
The intrusting such a powerful and dangerous engine as a locomotive, to one who will not submit to control, and render implicit obedience to orders, is itself an act of negligence, the
"causa causans" of the 'Mischief; while the proximate cause,
or the ipsa negligentiawhich produces it, may truly be -said, inmost cases, to be thedisobedience 9 f orders, by the servant so
intrusted. If such disobedienbe could be set up by a ra'ilroad
company as a defence, when charged with negligence, the.
remedy of the injured party would in most cases be illusive,
discipline would be relaxed, and the danger to the life and limb
of the traveller greatly enhanced. Any relaxation of the strin.gent policy and principles of the law affecting such cases, would
be highly detrimental to the public safety. The judgment .of the Circuit Courtis"therefore affirmed.,

SUPREME

COURT.

Webster v. Cooper.

Mr. Justice DANIEL dissents from the decision of this court
in this car , upon the ground that the said railroad company
being a corporation, created by the State of Pennsylvania, is
not capable of pleading or being impleaded, under the 2d section
of the 3d article of the constitution, in any of the courts of the
United States; and that therefore the Circuit Court could not
take cognizance of the controversy between that corporation
and the plaintiff in that court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, and adjudged,
by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court, in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and interest until the same is paid at the same rate per annum that
similar judgments bear in the courts of the State of Pennsylvania.

HENRY WEBSTER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. PETER COOPER
A will, executed in 1777, which devised certain lands in Maine, to trustees and their
heirs to theuse of Richard (the son of the testator) for life, remainder, for his life
in case of forfeiture, to the trustees to preserve contin.,ent remainders,; remainder
to the sons of Richard, if any. as-tenants in common in tail, with cross remainlers;
remainder to Richard's daughter Elizabeth, for life; remainder to trustees to preserve contingeut remainders during her life,; remainder to the sons of Elizabeth in
tail-did not v6st the legal estate in fee simple in the trustees. The life cstat6 of
Richard, and the contingent remainders limited thereon, were legal estates.
No duties were imposed on the trustees which could prevent the legal estate in these
lands from vesting in the cestuis ,pze use; and although such hties might have been
required of'them relating to other lands in-the devise, yet this circumstance would
not control the construction of the devise as to these lands.
The devise to Elizabeth for life, remainder to her sons a3 tenants in common, share
and share alike, and to the heirs of their bodies, did nct give an estate tail to Elizabeth, under the rule in Shelly's case. But upon her death, her son (the party to
the suit) took as a purchaser, an estate tail in one moiety of the land, as a telant
in common with his brother.
One~of the conditions of the devise was, that this party, as soon as he should come
into possession of the lands, should take the name of %hetestator. But as he had
not yet come into possession, and it was a condition subsequent, of which only the
person to whom the lands were devised over, coild tate advantage, a non-comnpliance with it was ,no defence, in an action brought to recover possession of the
land.
The son, taking an estate tail, at the death of ElizabetI, in 1845, could maintain a
writ of, entry, and until that time had no right of pobsssion. Consequently, the
adverse possession of the occupant only began then.
In 1848, the Legislature of Maine passed an act declaring that no real or mixed action should be-commenced or maintained against any person in possession of lands,

