149

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Lawler et al. v. Walker et al.

DAVIS B. LAWLER, TIMOTHY WALKER, STEPHEN S. L'Ho MEDIEU, GEORGE GRAHAMr, JOHN S. HARRISON, AND JACOB BUR-

NET, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JAMES H. AND JOHN WALKER.
Where the Supreme Court of a State certified that there was "drawn in question
the validity of statutes of the State of Ohio," &c, without naming the statutes, this
wcvz not enough to give jurisdiction to this court, under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act.
Nor, in this case, would the court have had jurisdiction if the statutes had been
named, because,In 1816, the Legislature of Ohio passed an "Act to prohibit the issuing and circuation of unauthorized bank paper," and in 1839, an act amendatory thereof; and
the question was, whether or not a canal company, incorporated, in 1837, was subjiet to these acts. In deciding that it was, the Supreme Court of Ohio only gave
a construction to an act of Ohio, which neither of itself, nor by its application,
involvcd in any way a repugnancy to the Constitution of thq United States, by
impairing the obligatiun of a contract.
The ease ot the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors, (5
How. 317,) examined and sustained.

THis case was brought up, by writ of eiror, from the Supreme
Court of the State of Ohio, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
As the case was decided upon the point of jurisdiction, it
will be necessary to state only so much of it as to show what
the question was which came before this court. See 18 Ohio
Rep. 151.
James H. Walker and J6hn Walker, partners in trade, under
the name of J. H. and J. Walker, brought a writ against the
plaintiffs in error in the Hamilton Court of Common Pleas, in
Ohio. The action was brought to recover $2,000 from the
plaintiffs in error, as directors, stockholders, or otherwise interested in an association known as the Cincinnati and Whitewater Canal Company. The evidence upon the trial was, that
the plaintiffs had become the holders of a large amount of such

notes as the following:
No.

D.

18667.
1

1

The Cincinnati & Whitewater Canal Co. promise to pay one

dollar to R. McCurdy, or order, twelve months after date, for
value received, at their office, Cincinnati, 9th Nov. 1840.
J. BONSALL Pres't.
SAM. E. FOOTE, Sec'y.
No. 1. Indorsed " R. MeCurdy."
The court charged the jury as follows:That, if the paper was issued under the directions ot orders
of the defendants, and intended to circulate as currency, they

would be liable in this action, whether issued for the individual
benefit of the defendants or for the benefit of the Cincinnati
13 *

SUPREME COURT.
Lawler et al. v. Walker et al.

and Whitewater Canal Company; that if the company had
issued notes not intended to circulate as a currency, as bank
paper generally does, in the ordinary form, but merely to pay
off their creditors, the defendants would r.ot be liable; that if
the defendants, in issuing said notes, acted merely as directors
of the Cincinnati and Whitewater C nal Company, and within
the limits of their corporate powers, they would not be pbrsonally
liable; but that said charter of said company did not authorize
the issuing of notes designed or calculated to circulate as money,
and therefore would not protect the defendants, if the jury
should be satisfied that they issued such notes; that although,
in ordinary cases,,where notes are made payable to order, it
may be"necessary for a plaintiff to prove the indorsement, yet,
if the jury find, in this case, that these notes were issued and
intended to circulate as a currency, it is not necessary to prove
the handwriting of the indorser, and the mere fact of the plaintiffs having the notes in their possession is prind facie evidence
of ownership.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintifls, for $3,452.10. ui
The Supreme Court of Ohio affirmed the judgment of the
Court of Hamilton County, and gave the following certificate:
In this cause, the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas
having been affirmed, it is now certified that this is the highest
court of law in the State of Ohio, in which a decision of this
suit could be had; and that there is drawn in question the
validity of statutes of the State of Ohio, in which it is claimed
by plaintiffs in error, those statutes are in violation of the Constitution of the United States; and which statutes have been
held valid and binding by this court, notwithstanding such objections. And this certilcate is ordered to be made part of the
record.
The defendants brought the case up to this court.
It was argued upon printed briefs by Messrs. Fox, Walker,
.and Grobeck for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Chase, with
whom was Mr.Rockwell, for the defendants in error.
The question of jurisdiction was thus stated by one of the
counsel, for the plaintiffs in error, Mr. Walker.
This case comes before this court under that clause of the
25th section of the Judiciary Act, (1 U. S. Stat. at Large, 85,)
which authorizes a writ of error to a State court in the case of
"a final judgment in any suit in the highest court of law of a
State in which the decision' in the'suit could be had, where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of a State, on the
ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, and the decision is in favor of such its validity."

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

157

Lawler et al. v. Walker et al.

This state of fact appears on the face of the record. The
validity of the statute of Ohio, of larch 18, 1839, "1further to
amend the act entitled ' an act to prohibit the issuing and circulating, of unauthorized bank paper,"' (Swan's Stat. 140,) was
drawn in question. It was drawn in question upon the ground
that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
because it impaired the obligation of the contract made by the
State of Ohio with the Whitewater Canal Company, in the act
incorporating the latter; and the decision of. the State court the highest court of law in the State in which the decision
could be had-was in favor of the validity of that statute.
*The ease therefore arises where this court may entertain jurisdiction. Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky v. Griffith, k4
Peters, 56.
On the other hand, the counsel for the defendant in error contended that this court has no jurisdiction. It is not a case 1n
which was drdwn in question the validity of a statute of a
State, on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution
of the Unitee,. States, and in which the decision was in favor
of such its validity.
1. The case is within The decision of the court in the case
Commercial Bank v. Buckingham, 5 Howard, 317.
The defendants below did not claim that the acts of Ohio were
unconstitutional; their claim was that those statutes imposed
a. penalty for their violation, and that thus the action was barred
in four years under the general statute of limitation of the Statfe
The Supreme Court of Ohio decided otherwise; and as they clafin
erroneously, and they noto claim on account of that erroneous
decisibn to give this court jurisdiction.
2. It does not appear from the record tha.t the question was
raised at the trial as to the constitutionalty ot the Ohio statutes
of 1816 and 1839.
Nothing of the kind is shown, o- to be inferred, from the
pleadings in the case.
From the bill of exceptions it appears that the nlaintiffs in
error excepted, on three grounds, to the admission of testimony.
and claimed the charge of the Judge to the jury on nine points
but no one of them has any reference to, nor in any manne
involves this question.
The charge itself presents no such question; no reference
whatever is made to any such question in the assignments of
errors in the Court of Common Pleas or Supreme Court of Ohio.
The only thing on the record, showing that the constitutional
validity of any law was in question, is found in the certificate
ordered by the court to be entered on the record, (p. 19,) "that
there is drawn in question the validity of statutes of the State of

SUPREME COURT.
Lawler et al. v Walker et al.

Ohio," &c., without saying what statutes, or on what ground
the decision was made, or in what manner statutes of Ohio
were connected with the subject-matter of the case before the
court; nor is there any thing in any part of the record showin
that these statutes of 1816 and 1839 were in question, nor any
reference made to them.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not think that this court has jurisdiction of this case
We cannot find in the record, nor can it be inferred from any
part of it, (the certificate of the Supreme Court included)
which of the statutes of Ohio were declared to be valid, which
has been alleged to be in conflict with the ConStitution of the
United States.
The 25th section of the act to establish the judicial courts of
the, United States, requires something more definite than such
a certificate, to give to this couit jurisdiction.
The conflict of a State law with the Constitution of the
United States, and a decision by a State c ourt in favor of its
validity, must appear on the face of the record, before it can be
regxamined in this court. It must appear in the pleadings of
the spit, or from the evidence in the course of trial, in the instructions asked for, or from exceptions taken to the ruling of
the court. It must be, that such a questioL was necessarily
involved in the decision, and that the State court would not
have given a judgment without deciding it.
The language of the section is, that no other cause can be
assigned, or shall be regarded as a ground of reversal, than such
as appears on the face of the record.
This certificate is, that th6 Supreme Court of Ohio held that
certain statutes of Ohio were valid, which hrad been alleged to
be in violation of the Constitution of the United States, without naming what those statutes were. This is neither within
the letter nor spirit of the act.
If permitted, it would make the State courts judges of the
jurisdiction of this court, and might cause them to take
jurisdiction in cases in which conflicts between the State laws
and the. Constitution and the laws of the United States did not
exist.
The siatutes complained of in this case should have been
stated. Without that, the court cannot apply them to the subject-matter of litigation, to determine -whether or not they
violated the Constitution or laws of the United States.
This court has already passed upon a certificate of a like
kind from Ohio, in the case of the Commercial Bank and Eunice Buckingham's Executors, 5 Hdw. 317. That was more to

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

153

Lawler et al. v. Walker et al.

the purpose than this, but it -was declared to be insufficient to
give jurisdiction to this court. In that case it was certified that
the plaintiffs in error relied upon the charter granted them in
February, 1829, and the 4th section of it was given; and they
claimed, if, a section of an act of 1824- was applied in the construction of their charter, that it would be a violation of the
Constitution of the United States, because it impaired the obligation of a contract. It was also stated tha the objection had
been overruled, and that a decision had been given in favor of
the validity of the act of 1824. When the case was considered
here, we first examined our jurisdiction under the 25th section,
and determined against it. Not because we did not think that
the certificate was a part of the record, or that it did not show
sufficiently the act which the plaintiffs in error alleged could
not be applied in that case without impairing the obligation of
a c6ntract, but because we thought, from our view of the entire
record, that the only question which was raised on the trial of
the case in the State court, was one of construction of two
Ohio statutes. And that was, whether or not the bank was
legally liable to pay on account of 'its refusal to pay its notes
in specie, the six per cent. imposed by the act of 1824. as a
penalty for such refusal, in addition to the twelve per cent. imposed by its charter. The constitutionality of the act of 1824
was not denied. Indeed, it was admitted. But it was urged
that the application to make the bank pay the penalty imposea
by it, and twelve per cent. besides, would impair the obligation
of a contiract which the State had made with the cororation
in their charter. Here, then, the validity of the act of 1824 was
not drawn in question, on the ground of its being repugnant to
the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, nor was
a point raised for the construction of any clause of the Constitution, of a treaty, or of a statute. of the United States. The
admission of the constitutionality and validity of the act of
1824, only raised a question of construction of two State
statutes, one of which it was said would be repugnant to the
other, if its penalty should be applied to the bank, in addition
to that imposed by its charter, without words implying that
the bank would not be liable to an universal statute, passed before the bank was chartered, which imposes sL per cent. upon
all banks which should refuse to pay their notes in specie. The
court decided, that the bank was liable to the penalty of the
act of 1824, but it erroneously supposed, because a constitutional point had been made in the argument, that it was one
which necessarily arose from the case itself, and that it could
not give a judgment in the case upon its merits without deciding that it involved the question of a conflict with the Constitution of the United States.

154

SUPREME COURT.
Lawler et al. v. Walker et &1.

It was in that view of the ease that this court said, in its
opinion,-" It is not enough that the record shows that the
plaintiff contended and claimed, that the judgment of the court
impaired the obligation of a contract and violated the provision
of the. Constitution of the United States, and that this claim
was overruled by the. court, but it must ,appear by clear and
necessary intendment, from the record, thab the question must
have been raised and must have been decided in order to induce
the judgment." And it was also in this view, wherl one State
sta'ute was ;aid to be repugiant to another, both being admitted to be constitutional, that it was said in that case, "It is the
peculiar province and privilege of the State courts to construe
their own statutes," and when they did so, "it was no pait of
the functions of this court to review their decisions," or, in such
cases, "to assume jurisdiction over them, on the pretence that
their'judgments have impaired the obligation of contracts."
Having said'that this coprt had not juricdiction in this iasd
on account of the insufficiency of the certificate, we now vay,
if it .could be made as definite as that in the case of Bucking.
ham's Executors, by inserting in it the statutes of Ohio, which
the court supposed involved a constitutional question, that it
would not give tins court jurisdiction. Then the cases would
be so much alike that the Buckingham casa would rule this as
to the question of jurisdiction. In the Buckingham case it was
urged that the penalty, in a general stat.te upon banks, for
refusing, tb pay their notes in specie, could not be imposed
upon a bank subsequently chartered, in addition to the penalty
imposed by its charter, without a violation of the Constitution
of the United States. It is urged, in argument in this case,
that a statute passed in 1816, entitled "a n act to prohibit the
issuing and circulating of unauthorized bank paper," which
was amended in 1839; could. not be applied to make the defend.
ants liable to pay notes which were issued in 1840 by a canal
company, in its corporate name, and which notes were meant
for circulation- in the community as bank paper. It was not
contended that the canal company could legally issue such
paper for circulation as money, though it was said they could
give notes. payable to order in payment of its debts.
It was not-denied that the company could give notes in payment of debts, but it was said, that they could not make them
-for that purpose and for circulation, as bank paper. The point
then raised for.decision,was, -whether the carial company could
do so, withQut making its stockholders and directors liable to
pay them to the holders of the notes, under the statute of 1816,
amended in 1839. The Supreme -Court decided that the defendants in this case, being directors and stockholders of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

155

Lawler et al. v. Walker et al.

canal company were liable, by the statutes of 1816 and 1839,
to pay such notes. It seems to us, that the statement. gives its
own answer, and that the Supreme Court, in making its decision, only gave a construction to an act of Ohio, which neither
of ftself, nor by its application, involved in any way a repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States, by impairing
the obligation of a contract. Whether the construction of the
act and the charter of the canal company was correct, or not,
we do not say. We do not mon n to discuss that point, or
-to give any opinion upon it; but we mean to say, that the construction does not violate a co nstitutional point under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Statute, so as to give this court jurisdiction of this cause.
If more was wanting in aid of our conclusion, it is to be
found in the pleadings in the case, in the evidence given on the
trial, the objections made to the admissibility of certain parts
of it, in the prayers of the defendant to the court to instruct the
jury, and in the charge which the court gave. By no one of
them is a constitutional question raised. It was only suggested,
in argument, and on that account it was, that the court certified
that the "validity of statutes of Ohio was drawn into question, which were said to be in violation of the Constitution of
the United States, and not because the court consideredothat
such a point had been rightly raised before it, under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789."
We do not think it necessary to repeat any thing which this
court has hitherto said, from an early day to the present, concerning the 25th section. Its interpretation will be found in thd
ease of Crowell v. Randall, 10 Peters, 308; in other cases,
cited in that case; and in Armstrong v. The Treasurer of Athens
County, 16 Peters, 281. We shall direct this suit to be dis.
missed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

