SUPREME

COURT.

Webster v. Cooper.

Mr. Justice DANIEL dissents from the decision of this court
in this car , upon the ground that the said railroad company
being a corporation, created by the State of Pennsylvania, is
not capable of pleading or being impleaded, under the 2d section
of the 3d article of the constitution, in any of the courts of the
United States; and that therefore the Circuit Court could not
take cognizance of the controversy between that corporation
and the plaintiff in that court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, and adjudged,
by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court, in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and interest until the same is paid at the same rate per annum that
similar judgments bear in the courts of the State of Pennsylvania.

HENRY WEBSTER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. PETER COOPER
A will, executed in 1777, which devised certain lands in Maine, to trustees and their
heirs to theuse of Richard (the son of the testator) for life, remainder, for his life
in case of forfeiture, to the trustees to preserve contin.,ent remainders,; remainder
to the sons of Richard, if any. as-tenants in common in tail, with cross remainlers;
remainder to Richard's daughter Elizabeth, for life; remainder to trustees to preserve contingeut remainders during her life,; remainder to the sons of Elizabeth in
tail-did not v6st the legal estate in fee simple in the trustees. The life cstat6 of
Richard, and the contingent remainders limited thereon, were legal estates.
No duties were imposed on the trustees which could prevent the legal estate in these
lands from vesting in the cestuis ,pze use; and although such hties might have been
required of'them relating to other lands in-the devise, yet this circumstance would
not control the construction of the devise as to these lands.
The devise to Elizabeth for life, remainder to her sons a3 tenants in common, share
and share alike, and to the heirs of their bodies, did nct give an estate tail to Elizabeth, under the rule in Shelly's case. But upon her death, her son (the party to
the suit) took as a purchaser, an estate tail in one moiety of the land, as a telant
in common with his brother.
One~of the conditions of the devise was, that this party, as soon as he should come
into possession of the lands, should take the name of %hetestator. But as he had
not yet come into possession, and it was a condition subsequent, of which only the
person to whom the lands were devised over, coild tate advantage, a non-comnpliance with it was ,no defence, in an action brought to recover possession of the
land.
The son, taking an estate tail, at the death of ElizabetI, in 1845, could maintain a
writ of, entry, and until that time had no right of pobsssion. Consequently, the
adverse possession of the occupant only began then.
In 1848, the Legislature of Maine passed an act declaring that no real or mixed action should be-commenced or maintained against any person in possession of lands,

DECEMBER TERM. 1852.
Webster v. Cooper.
where such person had been in actual possession for more than forty years, claiming to hold the same in his own right, and which possession should have been dverse, open, peaceable, notorious, and exclusive. This act was passed two years
after the suit was commenced.
The effect of this act was to Taake the seisin of the occupant during the lifetime of
Elizabeth, adverse against her son, when he had no right of possession.
This act, which thus purported to take away property from one man and vest it in
another, was contrary to the constitution of the State of Maine, as expounded by
the highest courts of law in that State. And as this court looks to the decisions
of the courts of a State to explain its statutes, there is no reason why it should not
also look to them to expound its constitution.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ .of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maine.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.
Upon t:.e trial in the Circuit Court, the demandant's (Webster's) counsel, prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows:
1. That the act of the Legislature of Maine, of the year
1848, ch. 87, is not applicable to any case in which the -title of
the demandant had accrued before the passage of said act.
2. That said act is not applicable to the present action, the
same having been commenced before the passage of said act.
3. That said act is void, because it is in violation of the con"stitution of the State of Maine, (Art. 1, § 21,) and because it
is retrospective in its operation upon vested ights of the demandant.
4. That said act is void, because it is in violation of the Constitution of the United States, as being a law impairing the obligation of contracts.
5. That by the true and legal construction of the will of Florentius Vassall, said Elizabeth Vassall took only an estate for
life in the demanded premises.
6. That by the true and legal construction of the will of
Florentius Vassall, the demandant took a remainder in tail male,
as tenant in comm-n with said Henry Edv;'ard Fox, in the demanded premises expectant on the life estate of said Elizaketh
Vassall.
7. That the demandant is not barred from recovering one uftdivided half of the demanded premises by the statutes of limitation of the States of Maine or Massachusetts, or any of them.
S. That if the demandant shows a right to recover one undivided half of the demanded premises, he may recover the same
under the writ in this case, although he therein demands the
whole of said dehaanded premises.
9. That it is not necessary, for the purpose of enabling the
demandant to recover in this action, that heshould have taken
the name of Vassall.
F. DEXTER and E. H-. DAvEIS,
Counsel for.Itenry Webster.

490

SUP REMIE COURT.
Webster v. Cooper.

But the honorable Judges, who presided. at the said trial, declined to give to the jury any of the said instructions so prayed
for by the demandant's counsel; but, on the contrary thereof,
did instruct the jury, that by the true and lawful construction of
the said will of Florentius Vassall, no legal estate in the demanded premises, or any part thereof, was ever vested in the
demandant, but that, if the legal estate in the demanded premises was, and by force anl effect of the said will, vested in
any person or persons, it was thereby vested and continued to
be in the trustees named in said will, viz., Lord Viscount Falmouth, Lord Viscount Barrington, and Charles Spooner, Esq.,
the survivors and survivor of them, and the heirs of such survi-.
vor; and that, therefore, the demandant could not maintain the
,present action to recover the same, and that it was, therefore,
unnecessary to instruct the jury upon the other points mentioned
in the demandant's prayer for instructions; whereas the said
counsel for the demandant respectfully insist that the sid
Judges ought not so to have instructed the jury, but ought to have
instructed them upon the matters and in the manner prayed for
by the said counsel as aforesaid; and they did, therefore, except
in law to the said instruction and said refusal of the said Judges;
and, inasmuch as'the several matters aforesaid do not appehr by
the record of said verdict; the said counsel have made and tendered to the said Judges this, their bill of exceptions, and pray
that the same may be allowed.
SAll which being considered, and found conformable to the
truth of' the case, the presiding Judge has allowed this bill of
exceptions, and hatli thereto put his seal, this 28th day of April,
in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one.
[sEAL.]

LEvi WOODBURY,

A s. us. Sup. Court.
The case was argued in this court by .iir.Daveis, with whom
was 111r. Dexter, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Allen, for
the defehdant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, made the following
points:
1. A devise to A, and his heirs, to the use of, or in trust for
B, vests the legal-estate immediately in B. 2 Jarm. on Wills,
196, 198, 199; Hill on Trustees._P.art 2, ch. 1, p. 229; 1 Greenl.
Cruise, 346-7, note; Webster v. Gilman, 1 Story's R. 499, 515.
2. Where duties are imposed on the trustees which make it
necessary that they should take the legal estate, the extent and
duration of.that estate are limited to exactly that quantity of
interest which the purposes of the ttust require. 2 Jarm. 213;

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

491

Webster v. Cooper.

Hill on Trustees, Part 2, ch. 2; 1 Greenl. Cruise, 348, note;
Doe v. Ironmonger, 3 East, 533; Robinson v. Grey, 9 East, 1;
CuAis v. Price, 12 Ves. 89; Doe v. hicks, 7 T. R. 433; Doe V.
Barthorp, 5 Taunt. 382, 395; Doe v. Simpson, 5 East, 163; 1
Rill.
Real Prop. clh. 22, § 21, and §§ 27 to 31.
3. There are no duties imposed on the trustees by the will. in
this case, in relation to the demanded premises, nor is there 'any
other expression of the intention of the testator to give them
the legal estate.
4. The only duties imposed are, by the terms of the will, expressly confined to other lands, viz., to the Friendship and Greenwich plantations. And the purposes of those duties have been
fully performed and discharged.. Whether the trustees took a
legal estate in those plantations at any time, may depend on the
local law in Jamaica. Under our laws they would take but a
chattel interest, as they were only to apply the rents and profits.
Hill on Trustees, 240, 241, and cases cited to the second point.
5. The successive remainders limited to the use of the same
trustees, to preserve contingent remainders in case of forfeitu-re,
show that it was not the intention of the testator that the legal
estate should vest in them originally. Curtis v. Price,'12 Ves.
100; Dge v. Hicks, 7 T. R. 433, 437; Fearne, Cont. Rem. 177,
178; Hill on Trustees, 240-1.
6. The act of Maine, 1848, ch. 87, is void as impairing the
obligation of contracts. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 137; 3.
Story on Const. § 1385.
7. It is void, as it takes away vested rights. Wilkinson v.
Leland, 2 Pet. S. C. R. 657, 658, Story, J.; Society, &c. v.
Wheeler, 2 Gall. 105, 141; Ham v. McClaws, 1 Bay, 93; Bowman v. Middleton, 1 Bay, 252; Dash v. Van Kleek, 7 Johns.
502, Kent, Ch. J.; Call v. Hagger, 8 Mass. 423; 1 Kent, 455.
Taking away all remedy, is taking away the right. Bronson
v. Kinzie, 1 How. 317, 318; Bruce v. Schuyl&r, 4 Gilmani R.
221, 277 ; Story on Const. §-1379 ; Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4
Wheat. 207; Gilmer v. Shooter, 2 Mod. R. 310.
8. It is void as against the constitution of Maine. Proprietors, &c. v. Laborce, 2 Greenl. 275, 29-t; Oriental Bank v.
Freeze, 18 Me. R. 109, 112; Austin v. Stevens, 11 Shepley, 520;
Constitution of Iaine, Art. 1, §§ 1, 19, 21.
9. The will in this case gave a life estate only in the demanded
premises to Elizabeth Vassall, with remainder to her sons as
tenants in common.- Willis v. Hiscox, 4 Myl. & Cr_197; Right
v. Creber, 5 Barn. & Cres. 860 ; Doe v. Laming, .2 BurroW,
1100; Backhouse v. Wells, 1 Eq. Abr. 184; White v. Collins, 1
Com. 289; Sisson v. Seabury, 1 Suran. 235; Dingley v. Ding'ley, 5 Mass. 535; Webster v. Gilman,. 1 Story, 499, 514; 2 Jarm.
235, 315; Fearne, Cont. Rem. 150.

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Cooper.

10. ",-Sons" aiid "children "'are words of purchase, and not
of limitation. 2.Jarm. 343, 344, 852 to 3.56; 1 Rolle's Abridg.
837, pl. 13; Buffar b. Bradford, 2 Atk. 220; Lowe v. Davis, 2
Ld. Raym. 1561;. Goodtitle v. Herring, 1 East, 264; Walker v.
Snow, Palm. 59; Archer's case, 1 Coke, 66; Lisle v. Gray, 2
Lev. -223;"Dingley v. Dingley, 5 Mass. R. 535;'1 Fearre, Cont.
R. 150, 151.; &c.; 2 Jarm. 301, 302, &c.; Doe v. Simpson, 5
Scott, 770 ; Joev. Webber, 1 B. & Ald. 7.13; Sisson v. Seabury,
1 Sumn. 235.
The word "sons" has been held to control the words "heirs
of the body," to make them-words of purchase. Lowe v. Davies,
2 Ld. Raym. '1561; Lisle v. Gray, 2 Lev. 223; Goodtitle v.
Herrihg, 1 East, 264; cited 2 Jarm. 301, 302; and also "issue
mle;" Mandeville v. Lackey, 3 Ridgr. P. C. 352.
The word "son" in the singular, can crEate an estate tail only
when used ds nomen collectivum, and where it is the manifest
intention of the testator to give such an estate. Mellish v. Mellish, 2B? & C. 520; -cited 2 Jarm. 320. 11. The devise to the sons of Elizabeth Vassal as tenants in
conion, shows that it was not the testator's intention to give
her an estate tail: These words control eveft the words "issue
of the body," so that they take as purchasers. Doe v. Burnsall,
6 D,& E. 30; Burnsall v. Davy, 1 Bos. & P. 215; Doe v. Collins.
4 D. & E. 294.
12." The plaintiff's right of entry accrued at the death*of Eliz.abeth, in 1845, and is not Warred by adverse possession. Wells
-v. Priice, 9 Mass. 508; Wallingford v. Eearl, 15 Mass. 471;
Angell on Lin. 42; 2 Sugd. Vend. 216, 323, 324.
13. The condition of taking the name of Vassal, is subsequent, and no one but the devisee over can *take advantage, of
ik- Gulliver v. Ashby, 4 Burrows, 1929; Taylor v. Mason, 9
-Wheat .325,. 349; Finlay v. King's Lessee, 3 Pet. 347, 374 1
Jarm. 80g.
14. The plaintiff can recover a moiety in this action. 6
Dane's Abr. 61 ; Dewey v. Brown, 2 Pick. 387; Somes v., Skinner, 3 Id. 52; Holyoke v, Haskins, 9 Id. 259; 1ev. Stat. Maine,
p. 610, §§ 12, 13.
Mr.. All ,. for the defendant in error, made the following
points:
1. That there is no error in the Distiict Court in declining to
give thr instructions requested-by said plaintiffs in error, as contaIned in the assignment bf errors, from No. I to No. 9, both inclusive. Because,-if there is no error in -the tenth assignment,
but the irstruction therein given, was correct, plaintiff in error
wa6 not prejudiced by the--withholding the instructions in the

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

493

Webster v. Cooper.

preceding nine requests. Greenleaf v. BIrth, 5 Pet. R. 132;
Binney v. Chas. & Ohio Canal Co. 8 Pet. R. 214; U. S. Bank
v. Planters Bank, Gill & Johns. R. 439; :Wats .& Serg. 391.
2. But if.the instructions in first four assignments of errors
had been material and injurious to plaintiff in error, they Were
correct and not erroneous; that the act of the Legislature of
Maine of the year 1848, ch. 87, is valid and not liable to any
.legal objection, and is not in violation of the constitution of
Maine, Art. 1, § 21, or of the Constitution of the United States.
Phalen v. Virginia,.8 How. U. S.168. " Such acts (Lim.) giving peace and quiet, may be said4o effect or complete divesture
or transfer of rights, yet as reasons have led to their validity,
cannot be questioned." - Id. S.,P. 585, Mills v. St. Clair County.
" Such laws do not impair the obligation of contracts within
the sense of the Const. U. S." Townsend v. Jemison, 9 Hov'
U. S. 407, 419, 420; and cases cited 10 How. U. S.395, 401,
402, Bal. & Susquehanriah R. R. v. Nesbit.
" No real or mixed action for the recovery of any lands in this
State, shall be commenced or maintained against any person in
possession of suc lands, where such person or those under
whom he claims, have been in actual possession for more than
forty years, and claiming to hold the same in his, her, or their
own right, and which possession shall have been adverse, open,
peaceable, notorious, and exclusive. To take effect in one day
after approval." Act of Maine, Aug. 11, 1848.
3. The said act may apply to actions then pending. Thayer
v. Seavey, 11 Maine Rep. 284; Bacon v. Callender, 6 Mass.
Rep. 309; 2 Gall. Rep. 315, 319. Stat. Lim. Rhode Island, no
objection that it went into immediate operation. Story, J.
4. There was no error in the Circuit Court in refusing to give
the instructions in the ,5th and 6th assignment. They were
properly decliued; ard cannot be assigned for error if the instruction in the 10th assignment wfs properly given.
5. There is no error in withholding the instructions requested
in thF 7th and 8th assignment. They were rightly withheld;
and plaintiff was not injured thereby. The same may be said of
the 9th instruction, contained in 9th assignment of errors.
6. No error in the Circuit Court in giving the instruction in
the 10th assignment of errors.
1t, The fee-simple and whole legal estate in the premises
was by .the tvill of F. Vassal devised to Lord Falmouth and
others and their heirs, as trustees; this action cannot be maintained, not being in their names or that of their heirs. Sanders,
U~es & Trusts, 190-1, 197, 262, 3-4. 2 Jar. on Wills,.198-9,
202; Leicester v. Biggs, 2 Taunt. Rep. 109; Biscoe v. Pperkins,
I Ves. & Bea. 485; White v. Parker, 1 Scott, 542; Hatton v.
VOL. XIV..

-

42

494

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Cooper.

Harton, 7 D. & E. 652; Gregory v. Henderson, 4 Taunt. 772;
Cursham v. Newland, 2 Mop. & Scott, 113; Tompkins v. Willon,
2 Barn. & Aid. 84; Brewster v. Striker, 2 Comstock's Rep. 19,
and note, 581-2.
2d. The purposes for which the legal estate was originally
devised to the trustees, still continue to exist, viz., to preserve
the remainders; viz., to "same trustees" for George Barrington
in tail and his issue male and his issue female. In same manner to Richard Barrington and issue - same manner to William
Barrington and issue; then to testator's granddaughter, Louisa
Barrington and her fourth son and 'daughters, then to Rose
Hening May and her issue; the words " same trustees" prior to
each devise in remainder. On failure of all these to the use of
the ministers an& wardens of Westmoreland. 2 Jar. on Wills,
200, 202, 203-228. ' It was the intention of, the testator that
the legal estate should remain in the trustees bntil all the remainders should be executed. It is so expressed in the will.
3d. It is agreed that the persons named in said will, or devises in remainder, after the failure of issue of Elizabeth Vassal, or their lineal descendants, are now living.
4th.. Trustees must hold the legal estate, as long as any of
the remainders are outstanding; repetition of devise to same
trustees to preserve six now unexecuted remainders, Jar. 222.
5th. Necessary that the trustees should hold the legal estate
for other purposes, viz., out of the rents and profits &c., they
were to purchase aegroes, cattle and stock, and other utensils.
They were to appoint agents, attorneys, and managers. 2
Barn. & Ald. 84; Id. 554; 2 Jar. 223-5; 6 Barn. & Cress. 420;
Morton v.Barrett, 22 Maine Rep. 257. Testator recommends
that trustees should appoint his son Richard manager, at their
discretion. They are to approve marriage jointures- assumes'
that money will pass through their hands - they may deduct
and retain; discretion as to time of paying £10,000- gives
L. Falmouth 100 guineas for a ring; the other £50 cash for
same purpose. Record,'29.
6th. The imbecility of testator's son Richard and the infancy
of his granddaughter Elizabeth is a sufficient reason why he
should devise the legal estate to trustees; still less, could he
anticipate, with any certainty, the existence of unborn sons of
his granddaughter. All the estates were over 3000 miles distant. Not named in the will in what State in New England
his lands were situate. Trustees most competent to look" them
up. The cestui que trusts most incompetent.
7th. Another object of testator in giving the legal estate to
trustees, would be to prevent cestui que trusts from docking the'
entailment and defeating subsequent remainders by common

DECEM1BER TERM£, 1852

495

Webster ;. Cooper.

recovery, without the legal estate, they could make no legal
tenant to the precipe.
8th. It is competent for defendant to urge and maintain this
objection. And to show the legal title in others, and thereby
disprove plaintiff's seisin. Cutler v. Lincoln, 3 Cush. Rep. 128.
Tenant may give in evidence, title of a third person, without
claiming under said third person for the purpose of disproving
plaintiff's seisin in a writ of entry. Jack. on Real Actions,
157; Stearns on Real Actions, 365, 380-9; Hall v. Stevens, 9
Met. Rep. 418.
9th. In this case, defendant has no need of invoking that
principle; for plaintiff himself introduces the will, by which it
is seen that the legal title is in other persons than the plaintiff.
10th. The acquiescence of Lady Holland, the mother- of
plaintiff in the open, exclusive, and adverse possession of defendant, and those under whom he claims from the time of her
divorce from her first husband, till her decease, (a period, of
about fifty years) tends to prove that neither she nor her second
husband ever claimed the legal estate to be in her.
No error in four first assignments. See brief, 2d point.
1. If the court should decide that there is error in the tenth
assignment, and that the legal estate is not in the trustees, it is
then contended that there is no error in withholding the instructions from the 5th and 9th requests; for if the legal estate was
in the cestti que trusts, Elizabeth, mother of plaintiff, took an
estate tail, and not for life only, and she is barred by the Statute
of Limitations of Massachusetts and Maine, and so is the plaintiff. Shelly's case, 1 Coke, R. 93; 2 Jar. 241 to 249; Doug.
321, 324; Soule v. Soule, 5 Mass. R. 61; 19 Ves. 175; Malcorn v. Malcom, 3 Cush. 472.
2. Plaintiff takes, by limitation under the will, an estate tail.
Co. R. lib. 6, fol. 17, Wyld's case; Robinson v. Robinson, 1
Burr. R. 38; 2 Jar. 271, 272, 287,; Chandler v. Smith, 7 D. &
E. 532; Pearson v. Vickers, 5 East, R. 548; Jesson v. Wright, 2
Bligh, R. 258; Coulsou v. Coulson, 2 Strange, R. 1125; Brook
v. Astley, 3 Burr. R. 1570; 4 Barn. & Cress. 610; 1 Barn. &
Ald. R. 944; Parkman v. Bowdoifi, 1 Sumn. R. 359; Fearne
on Remain. 118, 124; 4 Kent's Com. 214 to 232.
3. Sons, at time of will unborn, words of limitation. Wharton v. Graham, 2 V. Blac'k. R. 1083; 1 Vent. 231, cited by
Hale, C. J., in King v. Snelling; Byfield's case, 1 East, R. 229;
Doe dem Cook v. Cooper, 2 Barn. & Cress. 524; 2 Barn. &
Adol. R. 87; 4 Id. 43; 5 Id. 421; 2 Jar. 394 to 470; 4 Barn. &
Cress. 610; 1 Moor6, 682, pl. 939; Sondy's case, 9 Co. R. 127;
Imnan v.- Barnes, 2 Gall. 315; 1fi Ves. R. 546.
"
Rule in Sh-lly's case in force in Massachusetts till March 8th,

496

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Cooper.

1792, 14 years after piobate of this will. Davis v. Hayden, 9
Mass. 514 ; 4 Pick. 206 ; 15 Pick. 104 ; 7 Met. R. 172 ; Id. 425 ;
Jones v. Morgan, 1 Brown, C. C. 206, Lord Thurlow. Plaintiff
sues as teniant in tail. Shoemaker v. Sheely, 2 Den. 485.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Henry .Webster, an alien, and subject of Great Britain,
brought his writ of entry in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Maine, to recover possession of a parcel of land described in the count. He claims title under a will
-of Florentius Vassall. At the trial, the parties agreed on the
-following facts :
"It is agreed, by the parties, that the folowing statement of
facts is true, namnely, that the demanded premises belonged to
the proprietors of the Kennebec Purchase, and were by them
duly granted and assigned to Florentfus Vassall, one of the proprietors in fee, in the year 1756, being included in the grant
recorded in the records of the proprietary.
"That Florentius Vassall made his will September 20th, 1777,
and died at London, 1778, seised of the lands in question, they
then being unoccupied wild lands. The will was afterwards
-duly proved in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, September
14, 1778, a copy of which will, with its Exemplifications," has
been duly filed and recorded in the Probate Office for the county
of Kennebec; which will was offered in evidence, as copied,
and makes a part of this case. (C.)
"Richard Vassall, named in the will, died about 1795, leaving
only one child, Elizabeth Vassall, who married Sir Godfrey
Webster, deceased, about the first day of January, 1793, by
whom she had issue, two sons, namely, Sir Godfrey Vassall
Wbbster, who died iii the lifetime of said Elizabeth, without
issile, and Henry Webster, the dmandant. I Said Elizabeth,
afterwvards, namely, in January,.1796, wa. legally divorced from
her husband, the said Sir Godl~ey Webster, and on the first day
of July, 1797, she was legally joined in marriage with Richard
Henry Fox, afterwards Lord Holland, br whom she had issue,
one son, Henry Edward Fox, who is now living. All charges
upon the land devised have been satisfied, and they are not now
subject to any life estate, estate for years, or outstanding terms,
under the will. Said Lord Holland died on the
1841;
said Lady Holland died in-the fall of the year 1845. The'persons named in said will as devisees in remainder, after the failure
of the issue of said Elizabeth, or their lineal descendants, are
now living In England, as is the said Henry Edward Fox, son
of said Elizabeth. That said. Florentius Vassall, was, at the
time of said grant, a resident in Boston, State of Massachu-

DECEM1BER TERM, 1852.
Webster v. Cooper.

setts; that he, on or before the year 1775, left his said residence,
went to England, and never returned; and that neither he, nor
any of the devisees named in said will, have ever resided within
the limits of the United States since that time. The piremises
dernanded, being the matter in dispute, are of greater value than
two thousand dollars.
"The tenant, and those from whom he legally derives title co
said demanded premises, have been in the quiet, undistairbed,
open, notorious, and exclusive possession and occupation of
said premises for and during the term of fifty years next preceding the commencement of this action, he and they claiming
to hold the same adversely to any claim of said demandant, or
any other person, as his and their own property in fee-simple."
These facts, together with the will of Florentius Vassal],
made the case. By this will the testator devised three plantations in Jamaica, and all his lands in New England, (which included the demanded premises,) to Lord Falmouth, Lord Bar:
rington, and Mr. Charles Spooner, and their heirs, to the uses,
upon the trusts, and for the intents and purposes, and with and
subject to the powers and provisos therein expressed. The will
then proceeds to declare, in respect to all the lands in New
England, as follows: To the use of my son, Richard Vassall,
for and during his life, and from and after the determination of
that estate by forfeiture, or otherwise, during his life, to the use
of the three trustees during the life of Richard Vassall, in trust
to preserve the contingent uses and estates thereinafter mentioned, and for that purpose to make entries and bring actions
as occasion shall require, but nevertheless to permit Richard
Vassall to take the rents of the premises to his own use during
his life. The testator then declares the remainder, after the
death of Richard, to be to the use of the son and sons of Richard,
to be equally divided between them, share and share alike, as
tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, and to the several
and respective heirs male of the bodies of such sons, with cross
remainders among them; and in default of such issue male of
Richard, subject to a term of years, which it is agreed is not
outstanding, to the use of Elizabeth Vassall, the daughter of
Richard, for her life, with remainder as before stated to the
trustees for the life of Elizabeth to preserve contingent remainders, in case of forfeiture of her life estate; and then follows
the provision under which the demandant claims title, which is
therefore given in ue words of the will. "And from and-immediately after the decease of the said Elizabeth Vassall, to the
one or all and every the son and sons of the said Elizabeth
Vassall, to be baarotter to be divjided between or amongst such
sons, if more tnan one, share and, share alike, and they to take
42 *

498

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Cooper.

as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, and the severa
and respective heirs male of the body and bodies of all anc
every such son and sons issuing." Then follow remainders to
the other daughters of Richard, as tenants in common in tail
general, with cross remainders; remainder to the daughters of
Elizabeth Vassall, as tenants in common in tail general, vith
cross remainders, -with successive remainders to George and
Richard, and William Barrington, testator's grandsons, for life;
remainder to their sons, as tenants in common in tail male; 'remainder to testdtor's granddaughter, Louisa Barrington, for life,
and her sons in common in tail male; remainder to her daughters, as tenants in common in tail general; remainder to testator's daughter, Elizabeth Barrington, for life; remainder to her
other sons "in tail male successively;" remainder to her future
daughters, as tenants in common in tail; r3mainder to testator's
nephew May, for life; remainder to his sons in common in tail
inale; remainder to his daughters in common in tail; remainder
to the minister and wardens, of Westmoreland,' &c.
These are the most material provisions of the will of these
lands, and are sufficient to show its general structure, in reference to the questions which have been made concerning its
legal effect.
The first of these question is, whether, by force of the will,
the demandant took any, and if any, what legal estate in these
lands on the decease of his mother, Elizabeth Vassall.
It is'insisted, by the tenant's counsel, that the ,trustees took
the legal estate in fee simple, gnd that the estates limited to
Richard Vassall for life, and to the others, by way of iemainder,
were only equitabl estates, and consequently the demandant
cannot maintain this action.
But whether we look to the evident intent of the testator, or
to the settled technical meaning of the language he has employed, we think it clearly appears that the life estate of Richard
Vassall and the contingent remainders limited tlF'reon were legal
estates, and that the trustees did not hold the fee-simple under
this Will." The instrument was drawn in England, evidently by
a skilful draughtsmarr, and is in strict conformity with well-known.
precedents. It employs technical language with accuracy, and
all the various provisions of the will, though numerous and complicated, compared with the usually simple testamentary dispositions of property in this country, are capable of being clearly
understood and fully executed. The substance of the devises
of these lands, may be stated to be: to the trustees and their
heirs to the use of Richard for life, remain6er, for his life in case
of forfeiture, to the trustees to preserve contingent' remainders;
remainder to the sons of Richard, if any, as tenants in common

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

499

Webster v. Cooper.

in tail, with cross remainders; remainder to Richard's daughter
Elizabeth for life; remainder to trustees to preserve contingent
remainders during her life; remainder to the sons of Elizabeth
in tail, the demandant being the elder of her two sons.
A devise to the trustees and their heirs to the uses mentioned,
carries the legal estate to the cestids que use, unless the will has
imposed on the trustees some duty, the performance of which
requires the legal estate to be vested in them. And in that case
they would take an estate exactly commensurate with the exigencies of their trust. Morrant v.' Gough,7 B. & C. 206; Kenrick v.Lord Beauclerck, 3 B. & P. 178; 10 Bythewood on Con.
214; Jairm. on Wills, 198-9; Nielson v. Lagow, 12 How. 110,
111; 1 Greenl. Cruise, 346-7, note.
The testator has not imposed on the trustees any duties, connected with these lands, which in any way interfere with the
existence of legal estates in the different beneficiaries named in
the will. On the contrody, the sole duties to be performed by
them, in reference to these lands, are to take the life estates, in
case of forfeiture, and hold them, so that the future remaindermen may not be -deprived of the legal estates limited o them
by way of contingent remainders, which require the preservation
of the particular estates to support theiii.
Whether the trustees took and held any legal estate in either
of the plantations in Jamaica, it is not necessary to determine.
It was arguMl that they did, because they have some duties t6
perform concerning two of them, and that the testator employs
the same language in devising these two plantations to the
trustees, as he does in devising the lands in New England. But
it by no means follows that the same words devising to trustees
two parcels of land, must necessarily vest the legal estates in
both parcels in the trustees, because they take a legal estate in
one of those parcels. They may take a legal estate in one,
because subsequent parts of the will require them to do acts in
reference to it, which can be done only by the holder of the
legal estate, and then the law assigns to them such an estate as
the due execution of their trust demands , while at the same
time, by force of the statute of uses, or of wills, the other land,
as to which no duties are required-of the trustees, goes to the
cestuis que i.se.
So far as this will operates on the lands in New England,
there is nothing to prevent the usual and settled operation of a
devise to uses, which is, to vest the legal estate in the cestuis
que use; and it is placed beyond all doubt that it was not intended the trustees should hold the fee, because there are express limitations of life estates to them to preserve contingent
remainders, which would be wholly-inoperative if they took the

500

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Cooper.

fee, and is sufficient of itself to control any doubtful intent,
according to Doe v. Icks, 7 T. R. 433; Curtis v. Price, 12
Yes. 100.
Our conclusion is that the legal estates in the New England
lands, Were to go to the beneficiaries named in the will.
It is further urged by the tenant's counsel, that the legal effeet
of the devise to Elizabeth Vassall for life, remdinder to her sons,
as tenants in common, share and share alike, and to the heirs.
of their bodies, gave an estate tail to Elizabeth Vassall, under
the rule in Shelly's case, whilh was in force in Massachusetts,
withih whose limits these lands lay at the time this will took
effect. There is no doubt this rule made part of the law of
Massachusetts until the 8th of March, 1792, when it was abolished by statute, so far as it respects wills. Bowers v. Porter,
4 Pick. 198; Steel v. Cook, 1 Met. 282. But in our opinion,
the rule in Shelly's case is not applicable to this devise. That
rule is, that when the ancestor, by any gift or conveyance, takes
an estate of freehold, and in the same gift or conveyance an
estate is limited, either immediately or mediately, to his heirs
in fee or in tail, that the words heirs, &c., are words of limitation,
and not of purchase.
Here the life estate is limited to Elizabeth Vassall, and the
remainder to her sons as tenants in common, share and share
alike, and the heirs of their bodies. The fee tail is not limited
to the heirs in tail of the first taker. The heir in tail was this
,demandant; and the remainder is not limited to him, but to him
and his brother, as tenants in common. :It
is not a question,
therefore, whether the same persons shalt take by descent or
purchase, which alone is the matter determined by the rule in
Shelly's case; for the two sons could not take an estate tail from
their mother as tenan s in common. They mnst take as purchasers, or not take at all; and there is no rule of law which
forbids such a devise, nor can the rule in Shelly's case be applied
to it. On the contrary, it is well settled that a limitation by
way of remainder to the sons of the first taker, as tenants in
common, manifests the intent of the testator that the ancestor
should not take an estate in fee or in tail, and that the sons
may and do take as purchasers. Doe v. B3urnsall, 6 T. R. 30;
Burnsall v. Davy, 1 B. & P. 216; Gilman v. Elvy, 4 East, 313,
Doe v. Collins, 4 T. R. 294; 4 Greenl. Cruise, 389.
Our opinion is,-that upon the decease of his mother, tbig demandant took, as a purchaser, an estate tail in one moiety of
these lands, as a tenant in common with his brother.
It was objected that the devise to him was upon the condition
ch4 as soon as he should come into the actual possession of
the lands devised, he should take and use the surname of Vas-

DECEMBER

TERM,

1852.

501

Webstez v. Cooper.

sail; but it is enough to say that he does not appear' to have
yet come into such actual possession, and that if this condition
subsequent were broken, only the person to whom the lands are
devised over can by an entra take advantage of it. Taylor v.
Mason, 9 Wheat. 325; Finley v. King, 8 Pet. 347.
Under the Revised Statutes of Maine, c. 145, § 13, the demandant may recover according to his title, -provided he has a
right of entry; and this raises the' only remaining question,
whether he has such 4 right, or whether it is barred by an act
of the Legislature of Maine, passed on the -eleventh day of
August, 1848, which is as follows:
An act, in addition to the one hundred and forty-seventh chapter
of the Revised Statutes.
Sec. 1. No real or mixed action for the recovery ot any lands
in this -State shall be commenced or maintained against any
person in possession of such lands, where. such person, or those
under whom he claims, have been in actual possession for
more than forty years, and claiming to hold the same in his
or their own right, and which" possession shall have been adverse, open, peaceable, notorious, ahd exclusive.
Sec. 2. This act shall take effect at the end of one day, from
and after its approval by the governor.
This action was commenced on the fourteenth of April,, 1846,
and, consequently, had been pending upwards of two years,
when the above act was passed. The inquiry is, what is its
effect upon this action, and the title of the demandant? That
it was intended to be retrospective, and to- bar a recovery in
actions then pending, upon proof of such seisin by the tenant
as the act describes, is plainly indicated. Under the constitution of the State of Maine, can it so operate? Tb determine
this question, it is necessary to take into view the legal rights
of the demandant-and tenant, when this act was -passed, and
the change in those rights attempted by the act.
The demandant, on the decease of his mother, in 1845, became
constructively seised of an estate tail, and had a right of entry
into these lands. The actual seisin of the tenant and those
under whom he claims, though adverse to all persons having
estates in possession under the will of Florentius Vassall, for a
period of time sufficient to bar their right of entry, did not become adverse as against the demandant, until he acquired an
estate' in possession, by the decease of his mother; and, consequently, when he brought this action, he was lhwfully entitled
to one moiety of the land, as -tenant in tail, having an estate of
inheritance which he could convey by deed, and upon which,
being disseised, he could maintain a writ of entry. In other words,

SUP REME

COURT.

Webster v. Cooper.

the land was his property, and, as such, he had a right to re-.covr and hold it. Rev. Stat. c. 147, § 3.
The effect of the act is, to make the seitin of the tenant, and
of those under whom he claimsj adverse as against the demandant, during the time he had no right of possession, anti thus to
deprive him of his right of entry, and destroy his estate in the
:land. The actual operation of this law upon the demandant's
title, would have been expressed in words, if it had been said in
the statute that, whereas, up to that time an actual wrongful
seisin had been by law adverse only against those having estates
in- possession, and so, those coming in by way of remainddr,
were.well 6ntitled to the-land, however long that actual wrongful seisin rflight have been continued; yet, thereafter, those who
have 6ome in by way of remainder, shall, not be deemed entitled
to the land, because such actual seisin shall be taken to be adverse as against them, and they. shall not be allowed to maintain an action for the recovery of the land to which they had
lawful title when the action was brought. It is only by-giving
this construction to the law, that it can ba made to operate at
'all, on the demandant's title. It requires a possession for forty
years, "adverse, open, peaceable, notoricous, and exclusive."
Adverse to whom? Exclusive of whom'
If adverse to, and
exclusive of, the demandant, -who came into tke title by way of
remainder, less than three years before the act was passed, then,
according to the law of the State existing down to the passage
of the act, no aptual -wrongful seisin could be adverse to him
until he had an estate in the land entitling hini to its possession.
Bbt we ca'nnot suppose this law meant to enact merely, that
forty years' exclusive and actual seisin should bar an action by
one having title to the possession during the whole of that
period, because, by the Revised Statutes, (c. 147, § 1,) tventy
years was., sufficient; and, therefore, we are forced to conclude,
that the intention of the legislature was, to make an actual
seisin, for f6rty years, sufficient to destroy a title which had be.come vested, by way of remainder, before the act was passed,
and which-was a valid title by the then existing law.
Under the constitution of *the State of Maine, as expounded
by the, highest court of that State, is it in the -power of the
legislature to pass a retrospective law, thus operating to des'roy
Ali estate in lands?
We think this case not distinguishable from the case of the
Proprietors of the Kennebec Purchase .,i. Laboree et al. 2
'Greenl. Rep. 275. That was a writ of.entry to recover a tract
of land. The principal question was, whether an act of the
legislature concerning disseisin, was valid in its retrospective
operation. Prior to the passage of this act an entry under a

DECEMBER TERA

1852.

603

Webster v. Cooper.

deed, duly registered, which described a tract of land by aetes
and bounds, and actual possession of a part of that tract, operated, by the law of Maine, as a disseisin of the true owner of
the whole tract described in the deed. But an entry, without
such a deed, gave seisin, as against the owner, only of so much
of the land as was actually occupied; and this occupation was
required to be equivalent to what is figuratively described in the
common law as pedis possessio; that is, open, notorious, antd
exclusive, such as at once to give notice to all, of the nature and
extent of the possession and claim, and show the exercise of
the exclusive dominion over the land, and the appropriation of
it to the use and benefit of the possessor. This being the state
of the law w-hen the action was brought, a law was passed, one
section of which was in these words:
" Be it further enacted; that, iii any writ or action which has
been, or may hereafter be brought, for the recovery of any lands,
&c., it shall not be necessary for limiting the demandant and barring his right of recovery, that the premises defended shall have
been surrounded by fences, or rendered inaccessible by other obstructions; but it shall be sufficient if the possession, occupancy,
and improvement thereof, by the defendant, or those under whoni
he claims, shall have been open, notorious, and exclusive, comporting with the ordinary managements of similar estates in the
possession and occupancy of those who have title thereanto, or
satisfactorily indicative of such exercise of ownership a~s is
usual in the imprcvement of a farm by its owner; and no part
of the premises demanded And defended shall be excluded from
the operation of the aforesaid limitation, because, such part may
be woodland or without cultivation."
The Supreme Court of Maine held, chat so far as this act
attempted to change the law of disseisin in respect to titles ex-isting when it was passed, the act was inoperative and void,
because in conflict with the constitution of that State. The
opinion of the court, delivered by Mellen, Chief Justice, contains an elaborate and searching analysis of the subject, and it
is evident, that learned court considered it with all the care demanded by a question of so much delicacy and importance, and
brought to its adjudication sound principles of constitutional
jurisprudence The principles of this decision have been recognized in subsequent cases, (Oriental Bank v. Freeze, 18 Maine
Rep. 109; Austin v. Stevens, 24 Maine Rep. 520; Preston v.
Drew, 5 Law Reporter, 189,) and we are rot aware that it has
ever been questioned, or denied to be a just exposition of the
constitutional law of that State. The result of the decision is,
that the constitution of'the State has secured to every citizen
the right of "acquiring, possessing, and enjoying property;"

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Coopei.

and that, by the true intent and meaning of this section, pro5erty cannot, by a. mere act of the legislature, be taken from
one man and vested in another directly; nor can it, by the retrospective 6peration of law, be indirectly transferred from one to
another, or be subjected to the governme'at of principles in a
court of justice, which must necessarily produce that effect.
According to this decision, .the act now in question is inoperative, as respects this action, and the demandant's title, on
which it is founded. For, unless by a retrospective operation it
subjects his title to the government of a new law of disseisin,
which, in effect, transfers his property to the tenant, it can have
no operation; and whether such an effect can be produced by
an act of the Legislature of Maine, under the constitution of
that State, was the precise question adjudicated by the Supreme
Court in the case referred to, which adjudication we understand
-to contain an-established principle in the fundambntal law of
-that State.
The thirty-fourth'section of the Judiciary Act, (1 Statute at
Large, 92,) as-well as the rule of general jurisprudence, as to
the operation of the lex loci upon titles to land, requires us to
determine this case according to the law of the State of Maine.
In ascertaining what that law is, this court looks to the decisions of the .highest court of that State; and where the question turps upon the construction to be given to the constitution
of the State, and we find a construction made by the highest
State Court very soon after the constitution was formed, acquiesced. in by the people of the State for nearly thirty years,
and xepeatedly confirmed by subsequent judicial decisions of
that court, we cannot hesitate to adopt it, and apply it to this
case, to which, in our judgment, it is justly applicable. Such
has been the uniform course of this court. McKeen .v. De]aniy's Lessee, 5 Cr. 22; Polk's Lessee v. Wendall, 9 Cr. 87;
.Gardner v. Collins, 2 Pet. 68; Shelly v. Cruy, 11 Wheat. 351 ;
Green v. Neal, 6 Pet. 291, are some of the eases in which this
coarse has been f6llowed, and its reasons explained. The queqstion has usually been concerning Ihe construction of a statute
of a State.. But we think there is no sound distinction between
the construction of a law enacted by the legislature of a State,
and the construetion of the organic law, ordained by the people
themselves. The exposition of both belongs to the judicial department, of the government of the &tate, and its decision is
final, and binding upon all other departments of that government, and upon the people themselves, until they see fit to
change 'their constitution; and this court receives such a settled
constru tion as part of the fundamental law of the State.
In conformity with these principles, we are constrained to.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1852,

505

Sheppard et al. v. Graves.

hold the lawr now in question to be inoperative upon the demandant's title, and consequently, fhat he is not barred by itfrom
maintaining this action.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and a
venire de novo awarded.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
On consideration
of Maine, and was argued by counsel.
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause, be, and the
same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venirefacias de nevo.

ABLBP

SHEPPARD AND JOHN DUNCAN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

PEYTON

S.

GRAVES.

It is a bad mode of pleading, to unite pleas in abatement -and pleas to the merits.
And ifafter pleas in abatement, a defence be interposed., going to the merits bf the
controversy, the grounds alleged in abatement become thereby immaterial and are
waived.
When a plea is filed to the jurisdiction of the court, upon the ground that the plaintiff is a resident of the same State with the defendant, it is incumbent on the defendant to prove the allegation.
It is of no consequence whether the date of a promissory note be at the beginning or
end of it.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the District of Texas.
The facts are all set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 3ir. V E. Howard and hir. Ballinger,in a
printed argument, for the plaintiffs in error, and Air. Davidge
and 31r. 0. F. ohnson, for the defendant in error.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error,
were the following:
1. The court erred ii. -admittingthe notes in evidence, because
there was a variance betv, -en the notes offered and those described in the petitions.
The petitions alleged, that the notes'were "executed and delivered at Matagorda,) but did not allege that they bore date at
Matagorda, as was found to be the fact on their being produced.
VOL. XIV.

43

