DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
United States v. Heirs of BRillieux.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and.adjudged,
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to award a venire factas de novo.

THE

UNITED

STATES, APPELLANTS, IV. THE HEIRS OF VINCENT

RILLIEUX, DECEASED.
This court again decides, as in 11 Howard, 580, that under the acts of Congress of
1824 and 1844, the District Court had no power to act upon evidence of mere naked
possessioi, unaccompanied by written evidence conferring, or professing to confer,
a title of some description.
By the treaty of 1763, the land in question passed from France to Great Britain; and
the certificate of two French officers in 1765, certifying that the claimant had been
for a long time in possession, furnished no evidence of title. No application was
made to the British government for a grant.
A purchase from the Indians, whilst the province was under 'French authority, conveyed no title unless sanctioned by that authority.

In tl;is
c, ze, also, there is no proof that the claimants are the heirs of the party
originally in possession.

THIs was an appeal from the District Coiirt of the United
States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The petition
was filed in that court by the heirs of Rillieux, under the act
of June 17th, 1844, (5 Stat. at Large, 676,) which court decreed in
favor of the petitioners. The United States appealed to this
court, where it was argued by 11-. Bibb and Mr. Crittenden,
(Attorney-General,) for the appellants. No counsel appeared
for the appellees.
Mr.Justice,CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioners aver, that they are the lawful heirs of Vincent
Rillieux and Marie Tronquet his wife; and as such heirs, are
the true and lawful owners of a tract of land in the parish of
St. Tammany, State of Louisiana, "bounded on the South
side by Lake Ponchartrain; on the East by Pearl River: on
the West by the bayou Bonfovca; and on the North by a line
running from the western source of said bayou, and from the
head waters of the same to Pearl River" -containing
qn
extent of about one hundred thousand acres.
It is alleged, that this tract of land was purchased in part by

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Heirs of Rillieux.

Vincent Rillieux and his wife, the ancestors of the petitioners,
from the Biloxi Indians residing thereon, in 1761, by consent of
the French government, as appears from a copy of the title
annexed to the petition, given by C. P. Aubry and D. N. Foucault, bearing date March 16th, 1765. The said tract of land,
at the time the title was given, and before, having been in the
possession of Vincent Rillieux, and so continued to be possessed by him and those claiming under him, with consent of
the French, Spanish, and American governments, without interruption; and which was used, inhabited and cultivated as
private property."
The District Court gave a decree for the land, to the extent
claimed by the petition.
Occupancy and cultivation, from an early date, of comparatively small portions of the land claimed, is established by
proof; and, also, that the land was claimed by Rillieux's heirs,
as -property derived by descent from their ancestors; but the
extent of claim was indefinite.
Several considerations present themselves in advance of the
paper title set up. In the first place, the District Court was
exercising a special jurisdiction, created by the act of 1824,
where none existed before, and could only take cognizance of
such description of claims as the statute allowed. It embraced
those who claimed by virtue of ahy French or Spanish grant,
concession, warrant, or order of survey. And the act of June
17th, 1844, added similar claims originatng with the British
authorities. Jurisdiction to adjudicate written evidences of
title, was alone conferred by Congress on the district courts.
It follows, that no decree can be founded on mere possessi6n;
we so held in the case of Power's heirs, 11 Howard, 580.
Congress reserved to itself the power to' provide for actual
settlers. The act of March 3, 1819, for adjusting claims to
lands East of the Island of New -Orleans, provided for such
claimants as the widow and heirs of Rillieux were; and which
act with its various amendments, continued in force until after
the act of 1824 expired, and the district courts ceased to have
jdrisdiction by virtue thereof. The various acts of Congress,
bearing on claims founded on occupancy and cultivation, are
enumerated in the case of the United States v. Power's heirs,
11 Howard, 580.
In the next place: By the treaty ot 1733, between France
and Great Britain, there was ceded to Great Britain all the
country cast and north of a line running through the River Iberville, Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain to the sea; and as the
land claimed lies to the left of this line, the jurisdiction of
France ovgr it, ceased with the treaty of peace. And the King

DECEMBER TERM1, 1852.

191

United States v. Heirs of Rillicux.

of Great Britain having, by his proclamation of 1763, established the government of West Flprida, the colonial Governbr
exercised the King's power; and therefore, on the 18th of March,
1765, the widow of Vincent Rillieux addressed the Governor,
saying, that she had ascertained what the necessary proceedings
and submissions on her part were, in order that she might remain
in the peaceable enjoyment of her property, situate in the part
of the Province where she resided; and therefore, prayed the
Governor to accept that letter as her oath of fidelity and submission to the British authority; she being advised by Captain
Cambel, that the letter would suffice in her case. She further
proceeds to state: "I have the honor to annex hereto a certificate
from Messieurs, the Commandant and Intendant-Commissary
of this Province, as a title, which proves the peaceable enjoyment and possession of my said property, believing it to be
necessary: my widowed state and my numerous family, give
me ground to hope from your goodness all the protection of
which I have need, and for which I shall always feel the deepest
gratitude."
The certificate of Aubry and Foucault, the Commandant and
Intendant, bears date two days earlier than the widow Rillieux's
letter, to which the certificate purports to be annexed ; and these
two papers furnish the only written evidence of title presented
to the District Court. These French officers state, that Madame
Rillieux had been in peaceable possession and enjoyment for
twenty-four years preceding, of lands "situate in the direction
north of Lake Pontchartrain, between the bayou Bonfouca and
Pearl River; a great portion of which tract consists of praiies
trenblantcs,(trembling prairies,) quite valueless; and not having
a sufficient extent in front, she, Mrs. Rillieux, was compelled in
1761, to purchase from the Biloxi Indians, all that part of the
good lands belonging to that nation, lying betveen the land
which she owned and Pearl River, in order to procure the necessary pasturage for at least one hundred cows, so that the land
the said lady was in possession,-as well by her late husband, as
by her, for the last twenty-four years; also what she acquired
by purchase friom the Biloxi Indians in 1761, as explained above,
form to-day a peninsula, (Presque Ile,) bounded by the trembling and imnediate lands which border lake Pontchartrain,
bayou Bonfouca, and Pearl River. In faith of which (say
Aubry and Foucault) ve have delivered the foregoing certificate
to the said widow Rillieux, to be ufod by her in such manner as
she may think proper."
The certificate is not -addressed to the Governor of West
Florida, but "to all whom it may concern." No power to grant
land is assumed bv th6 certificate; neither was application

192

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Heirs of FRillieux.

made to the British Governor for a grant. Nor does Madame
Rillieux's letter, or the certificate of these French officers at
New Orleans, assert that any paper title had ever issued to Vincent Rillieux, or to his widow, for the land claimed, but only
that they had been in peaceable possession and enjoyment for
twenty-four years preceding.
That portions of the land had been purchased from the Bioxi
Indians, amounted to nothing, unless the purchase had been
made with the assent of the French colonial government.
This is the true state of the case, admitting that the foregoing
certificate was competent evidence for any purpose. But, as it
was given by individuals having no more authority to act in the
premises than any other third person, it can have no validity or
credit attributed to it; and this reduces the case to a naked
statement in the petition, with proof of great length of possession and continual claim.
That the District Court had no power to decree on such proof,
we have already stated.
The petitioners claim as heirs of Vincent Rillieux and his
wife. No proof was introduced to establish the heirship. This
of course was necessary before a decree could be made to these
individual claimants, as was held by this court in the case of the
United States v. LeBlane et al. 12 Howard, 436.
It has also been urged, on the part of the United States, that
no decree could be made for any 9pecific tract ,of land, as no
description was given in the certificate of Aubry and Foucault,
from which boundaries could be ascertained. But as that paper
is of no value, we do not deem it necessary to examine this
question.
For the reasons above stated, xye order that the decree of the
District Court be reversed, and that the petition be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be hcaid on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On considerition whereof, it is no%, here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the
claimants.

