DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

25

Brown et al. v. Aspden et al.

Court for the District of Massachusetts against Sizer and others,
for.the infringement of a patent right. ' The* judgment was entered in the following words: " It is thereupon considered by the court, that the said William V. Many recover against the said George W. and Henry
Sizer the sum of seventeen handred and thirty-three dollars and
"
seventy-five cents damages and costs of suit taxed at
The judgment was rendered in 1848; and upon writ of error
brought by the defendants, it was affirmed in this court at December term, 1851. The costs were not taxed in the Circuit
Court before the removal, and the blank left for theni remained
unfilled when the judgment was affirmed. The usual mandate
issued to the Circuit Court to carry the judgment into execution, and the blank space for costs was necessarily left in the
mandate, in order to conform to the judgment of the court below, as it appeared in the transcripv' ransmitted to this court.
Upon the return of the case to the Circuit Court, the counsel
f6r the plaintiff moved that his costs be taxed by the clerk as
and for the October tern, 1848, and that an order be made
arnending the record- L/ the judgment of the Circuit Court so
as to insert therein the amoun+ of the taxation, and that an execution on the judgment so amended be ihsued.
The court refused to allow the amendment to be made, and
overruled the motion. And we think its judgment" whether -it
be correct or not, cannot be revised in the form of proceeding
moved for on behalf of the plaintiff. The decision of the Circuit Court was not a mere ministerial act. It was the decision
of a court of competent jurisdiction made in the exercise of
judicial authority and discretion. This court might unquestionably issue a mandamus to the court below to proceed to
judgment. But in this case the court has proceeded to judgAnd
ment, upon the question submitted for its decision.
whether that judgment be erroi.eous or not, this court has not
jurisdiction to reexamine it in a proceeding by mandanus.
The motion for a rule to show cause must therefore be overruled for want of jurisdiction.

JOHN A. BROWN, ADINlqISTRATOR OF JOHN ASPDEN, DECEASED,
ET AL., APPELLANTS, V. AIATHIAS AsPDEN's ADMIINISTRATOI{S,
ET AL.
A reargument of a cao decided by this court will not be granted, unless a member
of thu court, who concurred in the judgment, debircs it; and when that is the case,
it will be ordered without waiting for the application of counsel.
VOL. XIV.
3

26

SUPREME COURT.
Brown et al. v. Aspden et al.

And this is so, whether the decree of the court below was affirmed by an equally
divided court or a majority; or whether the case is one at common law or chancery.
The rules of the English Court of Chancery have not been adopted by this court.
Those which are applicable to a court of original juridiction, are not appropriate
to an appellate court

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Covirt of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was the
conclusion of the case of Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al., reported
in 4 How. 467.
It was affirmed by- a divided court in December, 1852; and
in February, 1853, a petition for a rehearing was filed by the
appellants.

Upon. which petition Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered
the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made for a rehearing in this case, and we
have been referred to the practice of the English Chancery Court
in support of the application. The argument presupposes that
this court, in cases in equity, has adopted the rules and practice
of the English chancery. But this is a mistake. The English
chancery is
court of original jurisdiction; and this court is
sitting as an appellate tribunal. It would be impossible, from
the nature and office of the two tribunals , to adopt the same
rules of practice in both.
Nothing could show this more strongly than the present application. By the established rules of chancery practice, a rehearing, in the sense in which .that term is used in proceedings
in equity, cannot be allowed after the decree is enrolled. If the
party desires it, it must be applied f6r before the enrolment.'
But no appeal will lie to the proper appellate tribunal, until
aftef it is eftirolled, either actually or by construction of law.
And, consequently, the time for a rehearing must have gone by
before an appeal could be taken. In the House of Lords, in
England, to which the appeal lies from the Court of Chancery,
a rehearing is altogether unknowm A rearguinent, indeed, may
be ordered, if the house desires it, for its own satisfaction. But
the chancery rules in relation to rehearings, in the technical sense
of the word, are altogether inapplicable to the proceedings on
the appeal.
Undoubtedly this court may and "Would call for a reargument,
where doubts are 'entertained which it is supposed may be removed by further discussion at-the bar. And this may be done
after judgment is entered, pr6vided the order for reargument is
entered at the same term. But the rtle of the court is this, that no rearguraent will be heard in any cat3e after judgment is

DECEN BER T ERM, 1852.
Brown et

27

i: v. Aspden et al.

entered, unless some member of the court who concurred in the
judgment afterwards doubts the correctness of his opinion, and
desires a further argument on the subject. And when that
happens, the court will, of' its own accord, apprise the counsel
of its wishes, and designate the points on which it desires to
hear them.
There is certainly nothing in the history of the English Court
of Chancery to induce this court to adopt rules in relation to re
arguments, analogous to the chancery practice upon applications
for a rehearing. According to the general practice of that court,
one rehearing, where the application has been sanctioned by the
signature of two counsel, is a matter of course. And this facility
in obtaining one rehearing, has naturally led to others, and in
cases of interest or difficulty, two, or even three, rehearings have
sometimes been allowed, under the special leave of the court, before the decree vas enrolled, and, consequently, before it could
be removed to the House of Lords. The natural result of this
practice is to produce some degree of carelessness in the first
argument, and- hesitation and indecision in the court. But the
great evil is in the enormous expenses occasioned by these repeated hearings, and the delays which it produces in the decision, which often prove ruinous to both parties before the final
decree is pronounced. Nor is the mischief confined to the particular suit in which such proceedings and delays are permitted
to take place. -A multitude of others are always behind it,
waiting anxiously to be heard. And the result of the practice
of Wvhich we are speaking has been such that, although the
court has always been filled by men of the highest order, distinguished for their learning and industry, yet the expenses and
delays of the court have become a byword and reproach to
the administration of justice, and Parliament has at length been
compelled to interpose.

And if this court should adopt a practice analogous to that
)f the English chancery, we should soon find ourselves in the
:zame predicament; andwe should be hearing over again at a
second term almost all the cases which we had heard and ad-

judged at a former one, and upon which our own opinions
would have been definitively made up upon the first argument:
We deem it safer to adhere to the rule we have heretofore acted
on. And no reargument will be granted in any case, unless a
member of the court who concurred in the judgment desires it;
and when that is the case, 'it will be ordered without waiting for
the application of counsel.

It is true that the decree of affirmance in this court, in the
ease before us, was upon an equal division of the members

composing the court at the time of the argument, eight being

28

SUPREMIE CO

Ct2.

Brown et al. v. Aspden et. al.

present. But the case was fully heard, more than a week being
occupied in the arguments of counsel. 'nd when, upon conference and a full interchange of opinion, it; was found that the
court was divided, the case was held over until the present term,
in order that each member of the body might have an ample
opportunity of investigating the subject fcr himself. This has
been done. And when the court reassembled, it was found that
the opinions of each member of tle tribunal was unchanged,
and the decree was therefore affirmgd by a divided court. Further arguments would be mere waste of time, when opinions
have been formed after so much argument and such deliberate
examination.
Nor is the circumstance, that a decree is affirmed by a divided
court, any reason f6r ordering a reargument before a full bench
in any case. In a-body as numerous as this, it must often happen, from various causes, that the bench is not full. And experience has shown, that it has rarely happened that every judge
has been present every day throughout any one entire term.
Theecase before us is certainly an import;ant one, in its principles and in the amount in dispute. But there are many cases
on the docket at every term of the court much more important
in both respects. And if it is to be understood, that cases of
this description are not to be finally decided without the concurrence of a majority of the whole bench, it would be an useless
consumption of time to hear them in the absence of any one
judge, because it would be uncertain whether a judgment could
follow after the argument. And it is easy to foresee the inctinvenience, delay, and expenses to wvhich a practice of that kind
would subject the parties, and the uncertainty and confusion it
would produce (to the great injury of other suitors) in the
order of blsiness as it stands on the docket. of the court.
Neither is there any difference between a decreee in chancery
and a judgment at law, as to its affirmaince on a division of
the court. In both cases, the motion is to reverse; and if that
fails, the judgment or decree necessarily stands, and must therefore be 'affirmed. And in most of the cases affirined in this
mainer, a majority, in fact, of the judges, who act judicially
upon the case, concur in the judgment. For the Circuit Court
is composed of two members, and if both are on the bench,
they must concur in the judgment or decree; otherwise it could
not be passed, and the point would be certified by a divided
court.
In every view of the subject, we, see no sufficient ground
for ordering a reargument, and the application is therefore refused.

