218

SUPREME COURT.
Silsby et al. v.,Foote.

fendants, that they used the bending ]ever of Burden with his
knowledge aid that of the appellants, from the date of the
agreement until'the suit was brought, without any objection or
complaint from either of them.
In every point of view which we can take of this case,, we
'think that the defendants have infringed the patent for making
hook or brad-headed spike with Burden',, bending lever. We
shall direct the decree of the court below to be reversed, and
hall order a perpetual injunction to enjoin. the defendants from
using the machihe with Burden's bending lever in the manufacture -f brad-headed spike, and shall remand the case to the court
below, with directions for an account to be taken as is prayed
for by the appellants.
Mr. Chief Justice' TANEY, and Mr. Justice NELSON dissented.
Order.
'his cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of New' York, and was arglied by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed-by this court, that the decree of said Circuit Court in
this cautd be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause he; and the same is hereby, kemanded to the said
Circuit Court, with instructions to enjoin the defendants perpetually from using the improved machinery with the bending
lever for making hook and brad-headed spikes, patented to Henry
Burden, the 2d September, 1840, and assigned to the complainant as set forth in comp]ainant's bill, and to enter a decree in
falor of the complainants, for the use and profits thereof, upon
an account to be "stated by a master, under the direction of the
said Circuit Court, as is prayed for by the complainant, and for
such' further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the
opinion of this court, as to law and justice may appertain.

HORACE C. SILSBY, WASHBURN RACE, IABEL DOWNS, HENRY
HERRIOq, AND CHARLES D. THo11PSON, 1). ELISII'A FOOT.

Upon a trial in New York, a juror became ill, and was discharged before any evidence
was given, and before the plaintiffs' counsel had'cor eluded his openin'g adldros.
The court orde-ed another juror to be sworn, aad proceeded with the trial. The
defendant cannot 'object to this. It is the practice ii New York, and the Circuit
Court had a right to follow it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

219

Silsby et al. v. ;Foote.
The court having erroneously refused to allow the plaintiff to offer a paper in evi.
dence as a disclaimer Zf part of a patent, afterwards refused to allow the defendants
to offer the same paper in evidence for the purpose of prejudicing the plaintiffs'
rights. This last refusal was correct. The reason given was erroneous, but this is
not a sufficient'cause for reversing the judgment.
The courts of the United States have not the power to order a non-suit against the
wishes of the plaintiff.
Under a notice given by the defendant, that the invention claimed by the plaintiff was
described in UIre's Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures and Mines, and had been used
by Andrew Ure, of London,it was not competent to give in evidence a very large
book. The place in the book should have been specified.
Nor, under the notice, was the book competent evidence that Andrew Ure, of London,
had a prior knowledge of the thing patented. The notice does not state the place
where the same was used.
One of the specifications of the patent being for a combination of certain parts of
mechanism necessary to produce the desire . -ult, it was proper for the court to
instruct the jury that the defendants had not :.,ringed the patent, unless they had
used all the parts embraced in the plaintiffs' combination; and the jury were to find
what those parts were, and whether the defendants had used them.
When a claim does not point out and designate the particular Oements which compose a combination, but only declares, as it properly may, that the combination is
made up of so much of the described machihery as effects a particular result, it is a
question of fact which of the described parts are essential to produce that result,
and to this extent, not the construction of the claim, strictly speaking, but the application of the claim, should be left to the jury.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of New
York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by ilr. Seward, for the plaintiffs in error, and
by 111r. Foole, in proper person, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action on the case for the violation of a patentright granted to the defendant in error on the 26th day of May,
1842, for "a new and useful improvement in regulating the
draft of stoves." On the trial in the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of New York, the defendants took exceptions
to the rulings of the District Judge, who presided at the trial,
and have brought the case here by. a writ of error.
The first exception shows the following' facts: After the
counsel for the plaintiff had begun his opening address to the
jury, a juror became ill, applied to the court to be discharged,
and was discharged from the panel on account of physical inability 'to sit on the residue of the trial. Thereupon the court
ordered another juror to be drawn and sworn, and the panel being thus full, the trial proceeded, and the plaintiffs'.counsel concluded his address. The plaintiff assented to this proceeding:
the defendant objected, and excepted to the order of the court.
We think it was not erroneous for the presiding Judge'to treat
the physical inability of the juror as simply creating a vacancy
on the panel, and proceeding to fill it in the usual way by hay-

220

SUPREME COURT.
Silsby et al. v. Foote.

itig a twelfth juror drawn and sworn. *Weunderstand it to
have been the practice of the courts of the State of New York
so to treat such a withdrawal of a juror, when the presiding
Judge in his discretion has thought proper to do so, And under
the act of July 20, 1840, (5 Stat. at Large, 394,) the Circuit
Court might property conform to that practice. Of course it
must be tonfined to cases like the present, in which it is apparent
the party objecting received no injury. The defendant cannot
be supposed to havq been prejudiced by the failure of the twelfth
juror to hear a part of the opening argument for the plaintiff,
r, tvidenee having been given, and he did not make known to
the court that he desired to attempt to Exercise any right of
challenge of the other eleven jurors, to which he might have
been -restored if any cause existed, and the panel had been
treated as broken up. Rex v. Edwards, 4 Taunt. 309 ; Green
F. Norville, $ Ilill, (S. C.) 262. In such a case we think it rested
in the discretion of the court whether the withdrawal of a juror
should be treated simply as occasioning a vacancy on a still
,existing panel, or as breaking up the panel altogether, and it
being a matter of discretion, no error could be assigned upon it,
even if there were reason to believe, what in this case there is
not, that the discretion was not wisely exercised.
Th& next exception was to the refusal of the Judge to allow
the defendant to put in evidence to the jury an indorsement on
the 6riginal letters-patent. The plaintiff had previously offered
in evidence a duly certified copy of the following disclaimer:
To the Commissioner of Patents, the petition of Elisha Foote,
of Seneca Falls, in the county of Seneca, and State of New
York, respectfully represents:
* That your petitioner obtaindd letters-patent of the United
'States for an improvement in regulating the draught of stoves,
which letters-patent are dated on the 26th day of May, 1842.
That he has reason to believe that, throrugh inadvertence and
mistake, the claim made in "the specification of said letters-pa
tent, in the following words, to wit: " What I claim as my
invention and desire to secure by letters-patent, is the application
of the expansive and contracting power of a metallic rod, by
different degrees of heat, to open and close a damper which
governs the admission of air into a stove, or other structure in
which it may be used, by which a more perfect control over
the heat is obtained than can be by a damper in the flue," is too
broad, including that of which your petitioner was not the first
inventor.
Your, petitioner, therefore, hereby enters his disclaimer to so
- much of said claim as extends the application of the expansive
and contracting power of a metallic rod, by different degrees of

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

221

Silsby et al. v. Foote.

heat, to any other .use or .purpose than that of regulating the
heat of a stove, in which such rod shall be acted upon directly
by the heat of the stove or the fire which it contains ;-such disclaimer is to operate to the extent of the interest in said letterspatehtt vested in your petitioner, who has paid ten dollars into
the treasury of the United States, agreeably to the act of Congress in that ease made and provided.
ELISHA FOOTE.
Witnesses - Morris Newton, Edwin L. Baltink.
The defendants objected upon the ground that the instrument
did not state "the extent of his interest in such patent." 5
Stat. at Large, 193, sec. 7. The court sustained the objection,
and refused to permit the instrument to be read by the plaintiff
as a disclaimer. At a subsequeit stage of the trial the defendant offered to read to the jury a copy of this instrument indorsed
on the original letters-patent, not as a disclaimer under the act
of Congress above referred to, but as a confession by the plaintiff that he was not the original and first inventor of a part of
the thing patented. The plaintiff objected, because the indorsement on the letters-patent was not in his handwriting, nor signed
by him, and the defendants had already caused a duly certified
copy of the same instrument to be rejected. The court sustained the objection.
We are of opinion the court erred in not allowing the plaintiff to put this instrument in evidence as a disclaimer, under the
7th section of the act of March 8,1837. 5 Stat. at Large, 193.
This section authorizes not only the patentee, but his executors,
administrators, and assigns, whether of the whole or of a sectional interest in the patent, to make disclaimer, " stating
therein the extent of his interest in such patent." This instrument states that !he plaintiff was rimself the patentee, and
having thus shown a grant to himself of the whole interest, it
is silent respecting a transfer of any part of it. The fair implication is that he still owns the whole; and this implication is
sufficient -ithout an express declaration that he had parted with
no interest. It has been argued that the words "such disclaimer
is to operate to 'the extent of the interest vested in your petitioner," imply that he had not the whole title. But the interest
previously described as vested in him was the entire title as
patentee, and this reference to that interest, accompanied by a
declaration that the disclaimer was intended to operate upon it
to its whole extent, strengthens, rather than weakens the implication that he owned the whole patent. This being so, it follows, that when the defendants offered to put a. copy of the
instrument in evidence, not as a disclaimer, but as a confession
of the defendant, to prejudice his rights, it was properly rejected.
It is true the rejection of the evidence was placed on a different
19*

SUPREME COURT.
Silsby et al. v. Foote.

ground by.the Judge below. But.if the defendants were not
deprived of any right by the rejection of the evidence, it is not
cause for reversing the judgment that an erroneous reason -was
given for rejecting it; and they were not deprived of any right,
if the paper was not legal evidence upon the particular point
for which alone it was offered, or if its reception, accompanied
by proper instructions to the jury concerning its legal effect,
must necessarily have assisted the opposite party.
The next .exception is to the refusal of the Judge to order a
nonsuit. But, as it has been repeatedly decided that the
courts of the United States have no power to order a peremptory nonsuit, against the will of the plairtiff, it is not necessary to examine the grounds of the motion. Doe v. Grymes et
al. 1 Pet. 469 ; D'Wolf v. Rabaud et al. 1 Pet. 476 ; Crane v.
Morris et al. 6 Pet. 598.
In the course of the trial, the defendants offered to put in
evidence two articles contained in Ure's. Dictionary of Arts,
Manufactures, and Mines, to prove that the patent declared on
was not valid. The plaintiff objected, and the evidence was
excluded. It is incumbent on the defendants to show their
right to 'introduce this evidence. To dc so, they rely on the
fifteenth section of the act of July 4th, 1836. 5 Stat. at Large,
123. This section enables the defendant, in any action on the
case founded on letters-patent, to give in evidence, under the
general issue, any special matter of which notice in writing
may have been given to the plaintiff, or his attorney, thirty days
before the trial, tending to prove, among other things, that the
patentee was not the original and first inventor of the thing
patented, or of some substantial and material part thereof
claimed as -new, or that it had been described in some public
work anterior to the supposed discovery thereof by the patentee;
and whenever the defendant'relies, in his defence, on the fact of
a previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented,
he is required to state, in his notice of special matter, the names
and places of residence of those whom he intends to prove
possessed a prior knowledge of the thing, and where the same
had been used. The notice given in this case was as follows:
"The patentee was not the original and first inventor or discoverer of a substantial and material part thereof, claimed as
new. That it had been described in a public work, called
'tUre's Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines,' anterior
to the 'supposed invention thereof by the patentee; and also.
had been in public use and known before that time, and used
by Andrew Ure, of London, the late M. Bonnemair, of Paris,
and George H. McClary, bf Seneca Falls, New York."
Ure' Dictionary contains upwards of thirteen hundred pages,

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

223

Silsby et al. v. Foote.

and the articles which the defondants offered to read were
entitled " Thermostad" and " Heat Regulator." The first
question is, whether this was a sufficient notice of the special
matter, tending to prove that the thing patented, or some substantial part thereof, claimed as new, had been .described in a
printed publication. We are of opinion it -was not. The act
does not attempt to prescribe the particulars which such a notice
shall contain. It simply requires notice. But the least effect
which can be allowed to this requirement, is, that the notice
should be so full and particular as reasonably to answer the
end in view. This end was not merely to put the patentee -on
inquiry, but to relieve him from the iiecessity of making useless
inquiries and researches, and enabl him to fix with precision
upon what is relied on by the defendants, and to prepare himself
to meet it at the trial. This highly salutary object should be
kept in view, and a corresponding disclosure exacted from the
defendant of all those particulars which he must be presumed to
know, and which he may safely be required to state, without
exposing him to any risk of losing his rights. Less than this
would not be reasonable notice, and, therefore, would not be
such a notice as the act must be presumed to have intended.
Now, we do not perceive that the defendants would be
exposed to the risk of losing any right, by requiring them to
indicate, in their notice, what particuiar things, described in the
printed publication, they intended to aver were substantially the
same as the thirg patented. This they might have done, either
by reference to pages, or titles, and perhaps in other ways, for
the particular manner in which the things referred to are to be
identified, must depend much upon the contents of the volume,
and their arrangement. It has been urged that a defendant
may not have access to the book in season for the notice. But
it must be remembered that, some considerable time before it is
necessary to give such a notice, the defendant has begun to use
the thing patented, which, primd facie, he has no right to*use,
and it would'seem to be no injustice, or hardship, to exppet
him, before he begins to infringe, to ascertain that the patentees'
title is not valid, and if its invalidity depends on what is in a
public work, that he should inform himself what that work
contains, and, consequently, how to refer to it. We do not
think it necessary so to construe this act, designed for the
benefit of patentees, as to enable the defendant to do, what we
fear is too often done, to infringe first, and look for defences
afterwards.
Nor does a notice, that somewhere, in a volume of thirteen
hundred pages, there is something which tends to prove that
the thing patented, or some substantial and material part thereof

SUPREME COURT.
Silsby et al. v. Foote.

claimed as new, had been described therein, relieve the patentee
from the necessity of making fruitless researches, or enable him
to fix with reasonable certainty on what he must encounter at
the trial. Upon this ground, therefore, the exception cannot be
supported.
But, it is further urged that the book ought to have been
admitted as evidence; that Andrew Ure, of London, had a prior
knowledge of the thing patented. This view cannot be sustained. For, although the name of Andrew Ure, of London, is
contained in the notice of persons who are alleged to have had
this prior knowledge, yet the defendants have not brought themselves within the act of Congress, because the notice does not
state "where the same was used," by Andrew Ure. Besides,
inasmuch as the same section of the statute provides that a
prior invention in a foreign country shall not avoid a patent,
otherwise valid, unless the foreign invention had been described
in a printed publication, the defendants are thrown back upon
that clause of the act which provides for that defence, arising
from a printed publication, which has already been considered.
The next exception was to the charge of the presiding Judge
to the jury. The- defendants requested the Judge to charge the
jury, 3d, that it was erroneous to consider as constituent parts
of the combination claimed by the plaintiff only those points
-which were requisite to the operation of opening and closingthe damper; but that, on the contrary, the jury must consider as
constituent parts of the combination all the parts of the machine, as described in the specification, by which the regulation
of the heat of a stove, or the other structur2s, is effected.
4. That the index is a constituent part of -the combination
patented by the plaintiff.
5. That the detaching process of the lever is a cofistitudnt
part of the coinbination patented by the plaintiff
6. That the pendulum is a constituent part of the combination.
And, in this connection,
7. That if the defendants do not use all the constituent parts
of the combination patented by the plaintiff, a verdict must be
rendered for the delndants.
As to the 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th of the instructions
prayed for by the defendants, the Judge chre'ged the jury, that it
-was true as insist-,' by the defendants' counsel, that the third
article of the surnmary of the plaintiff's specification, on which
alone, if at all, he was entitled to recover, was for a combination ; and unless. t appeared by the evidence that the defendapts had used ail ihe parts of the plaintiff's stove embraced in
such combination, he was noi entitled to recover. That the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

225

Silsby et al. v. Foote.

combination claimed in the article in question was of such parts
of the mechanism described in the specification as are necessary
to regulate the heat of the stove. And unless it appeared by
the evidence that some parts of the mechanism, not shown to
have been used by thi defendants, were necessary to perform
that office, or that, according to the just construction of the specification, such parts were intended to be claimed by the plaintiff
as a part of such cow-bination, they are not to be considered as
embraced within it. That inasmuch as by the fourth article of
the plaintiff's summary, he made a distinct and separate claim
to wfat had been called the detaching apparatus, there seemed
to be good reason to infer that it was not his intention to claim
this in the third article as a part of the combination therein
mentioned. But the Judge observed, that the question.ielatiVe
to the extent of the combination, had been treated by the defendants' counsel as a question of fact, and he had no disposition to withdraw it from the consideration of the jury; and he
therefore submitted it to the jury to decide, from the evidence,
whether the parts of the mechanism described in the specification, which were not shown to have been used by the defendants,
were necessary to regulate the heat of the stove; and instructed
the jury that if they should so find, the defendants would be
entitled to a verdict. And the Judge refused to charge otherwise in relation to such instructions, or any of them.
To this charge and refusal of the Judge, as the 2d, 3d, 4th,
5th, 6th, and 7th of the instructions prayed by the defendants,
the defendants' counsel then and there excepted.
Th substance of the charge is, that the jury were instructed
by the Judge, that the third claim in the specification was for a
combination of such parts of the described mechanism as were
necessary to regulate the heat qf the stove; that the defendants
had not infringed the patent, unless they had used all theparts
embraced in the plaintiff's combination; and he left it to.the
jury to find what those parts were, and whether the defendants
had used them.
We think this instruction was correct. The objection made
to it is, that the court left to the jury what was matter of law.
But an examination of this third claim, and of the defendants'
prayers for instruction, will show that the Judge left nothing but.
matter of fact to the jury. The construction of the claim was
undoubtedly for the court. The court rightly constrded it to be
a claim for a combination of such of the described parts as
were combined and arranged for the purpose of producing a
particular effect, viz., to regulate the heat of a stove. This was
in accordance with the defendants' third prayer. But the defendants also desired the Judge to instruct the jury that the

226

SUPREME COURT.
Silsby eo al. v. Foote.

index, the detaching process, and the pendillum, were constituent
parts of this combination. How could the Judge know this as
matter of law? The claim is in these words: " I also claim the
combination, above described, by which the regulation of the
heat of the stove, or other structure in which it may be used, is
effected." The writing which the Judge was to construe, calls
for all such elements of the combination as are actually employed to effect the regulation of the heat, according to the plan
of the patentee, described in the specification, and it therefore
became a question for the juiy, upon the evidence of experts, or
an inspection by them of the mnachines, or upon both, what parts
described did in point of fact enter into, and c6nstitute an essential part of this co~nbination. When a c-aim does not point
out and d~signate the particular elements which compose a
combination, bit only declares, as it properly may, that the
combination is made up of so much of the described machinery
as effects a partieular result, it is a question of fact which of
the described parts are essential to- produce that result; and to
this extent, not the construction of the claim, strictly speaking,
but the application of the claim, should be left to'the jury. The
defendants themselves so treat this matter in their third prayer,
and we are satisfied the Judge did not err in so treating it.
The defendants' counsel exhibited to the court the models of
the machines of the defendants and the plaintiff, for the purpose
of satisfying the court the jury must have understood they were
at liberty to construe the claim, and that they did in truth so
construe it, as to exclude from the combination claimed by the
plaintiff, what is called the detaching -process. But we can
draw no such inference from au examination of those models.
And while we do not think it proper to express any opinion on
what is really a matter of fact, yet we think it pertinent to say,
that an examination of the models has satisfied us that a jury
might fairly come to the conclusion that the defendants did use
a detaching process, not substantially diflbrent from the plaintiff's,
and occupying in their combination the same place, and answering substantially the same purpose, as the plaintiff's detaching process does in his combination ; and therefore we can draw
no inference such as is contended for.
We have examined all the exceptions, and no one being found
tenable, the judgment is affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern

DECEMBER TERM, 1852f

227

Calkin and Company v. Cocke.

District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this
court, that the judgment ofthe said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and interest
until the same is paid, at the same rate per annum that similar
judgments bear in the courts of the State of New York.

E. P.

IAMUEL JONES, TRADING UNDER THE FIRM AND
CALKIN AND
STYLE OF E. P. CALKIN AND COMPANYI PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,

v.JA ES H. CocKr.
The State of Texas was admitted into the Union on the 29th of December, 1845, (9
Stat. at Large, 108,) and from that day the laws of the United Staters were extended
over it.
Consequently, on the 30th of Jgnuary, 1846, the revenue laws of Texas were not in
force there, and goods seized for a non-compliance with those laws, were iftegally
seized.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Supreme
Court of Errors and Appeals for the State of Texas, under the
25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Calkin and Company were merchants of the county or Galveston, Texas, and Cocke was collector of Galveston under the
Republic of Texas.
By a joint resolution of Congress, approved on the 1st of
March, 1845, the President of the United States was authorized
to submit one of two alternative propositions to .the Republic
of Texas, as an overture for her admission as a State into the
Union. One of these contemplated the completion of this
measure and the adjustment of its terms, by legislation, and the
other by negotiation. The President selected the former, and
presented to Texas the proposals contained in the first and second
sections of the said resolutions. The first section declared
"that Congress doth consent that the Territory of Texas may be.
erected into a State, to be called the State of Texas, with a
republican form of government, to be adopted by the people of
said Republic, by deputies in convention assembled, with the
consent of the'existing gbvernment, in order that the same may
be admitted as one of the States of this Union."
And the second section declares that this consent, on the
part of the United States, was given upon several conditions,
one of which required the constitrtion, which was to be framed
by the Convention, to be transmitted, with the proper evidences
of its adoption by the people of the said Republic of Texas, to
the President of the Vnited States, to be laid before the Con-

