584

SUPREME COURT.
Walker et al. v. Robbins et al.

F. WALKER AND SAIBIUEL Al. PUCKETT, APPELLANTS,
GEORGE S. ROBBINS, LLOYD W. WELLS, ABIJAH FiSHER,
AND ROBERT H. MCCURDY.

WILLIAMn

v.

A bill in chancery will not lie for the -purpose of perpetually enjoining a judgment,
upon the ground that there was a false return in serving process upon one of the
defendants. Redress must be sought in the court which gave the judgment, or in
an action against the marshal.
Moreover, the defendant in this case, by his actions, waived all benefitwhich he might
have derived from the false return; and no defence was made on the trial at law,
impeaching the correctness of the- cause of action sued on, and in such a ease, resort cannot be had to equity to supply the omission.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi, sitting as a Court
of Equity.
The facts in the case are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 'r. Freeman, for the appellants, and Xt12.
Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CA-TRON delivered the opin.ion of the court.
William F. Walker, Samuel M. Puckett, and John Lang, filed
their bill against Robbins and others, praying a perpetual in,
junction against a judgment at 14w recovered in the Circuit
Court of the Mississippi District, allegg, among other grounds
of relief, that William F. Walker, one of the complainants, was
hot served with notice to appear and defend the suit at law.
The deputy marshal returned the original writ, "Executed on
William F. Walker, 6th of April, 1840, personally." More than
ten years afterwards the deposition of the deputy (Cook) was
taken in Texas, when he testified that his return was false; that
he did not notify Walker, but indorsed the writ executed, intending to execute it after the indorsement was made, and thereIore he let it stand, although he never did notify Walker.
Assuming the fact to be that Walker was not served with
process, and that the marshal's return is false, can the bill, in
this event, be maintained? The respondents did no act that
can connecf them with the ;false return; it was the sole act of
the marshal, through .his deputy, for which he was responsible
to the complainant, Walker, for any dimages that were sustained by him in consequence of the false return. This is free
.frbm controversy;. still the marshal's responsibility does not settle the question made by the bill, which is, in general terms,
whether a court of equity has jurisdiction to regulate proceedings, and to afford relief at law, where there has been abuse, in
the various details arising on execution of process, original,

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

585

Walker et al. v. Robbins et al.

mesne, and final. If a court of chancery can be called on to
correct one abuse, so it may be to correct another; and in effect,
to vacate judgments, where .the tribunal rendering the same
would refuse relief, either on motion, or on a proceeding by
audita qterela,where this mode of redress is in use.
In cases of false returns affecting the defendant, where the
plaintiff at law is not in fault, redress can only be had in t:e
court of law where the record was made, and if relief cannot
be had there, the party injured must seek his remedy against the
marshal.
We are of the opinion, however, that the return was not
false; but if it was, hat Walker waived the want of notice by
pleading to the action. The suit was against Walker, Puckett
and Lang. The latter employed David Shelton as his attorney
to defend the suit. Lang told Shelton to put in pleas for all the
defendants who had been served with process. Upon examination, Shelton found that process had been served on Walker,
Lang, and Puckett, and he put in a joint plea for them. Afterwards, Shelton, the attorney, met both Walker and Lang in
Jackson, where the court sat, and spoke to them in each other's
presence, about the defence of the case; and a conversation
was held with them, in which they promised Mr. Shelton that
another attor. -, William Seiger, should be associated with
him in defending the suit. The questions likely to arise in the
case were stated by Lang and Walker, and they were especially
anxious to know from Shelton whether Mr. Shields, the prncipal to the note sued on, would be .competent as A witness on
their behalf. The cause was tried at a subsequent term, on the
issue made by-the plea put in by Shelton, and a.verdict and
judgment rendered.
No defence was nade on the trial at law, impeaching the
consideration of the note sued on, either on the gr6und .that
Green had not delivered the bank-notes, as stipulated by him;
nor on the ground that usury entered into the franiaction because the notes were at a discount of from forty to fifty per
cent. Neither was any proof introduced on the hearing of this
chancery suit in the Circuit Court, tending to show thaV Green
failed to deliver the bank-notes, although the respondents put
the fact in issue; and as the face of the note imported a consideration, no further evidence to sustain it was required from the
respondents.
They-adrit thaf the bank-notes were at the rate of disouirt
stated in the bill, but insisted they were of equal value to ShIeldsas if they had been at par; and this the bill admits would have
been the case, had Shields received them according to his agreement with, Green; and there being no proof to the contrary, we

86

SUPREME COURT.
Huff et al. v.

Hutchinson.

must assume that they were duly received. But whether they
were duly delivered or not, is immaterial. The defendants in
the suit at law had an opportunity to make their defence there,
and having failed to make it, cannot be heard in a Court of
Equity. By way of authority, we need only repeat, as the settled rule, what was adjudged in the case of Creath v. Sims, (5
Howard, 204,) that whenever a competent defence shall have
existed at law, the party who may have neglected to use it,
will never be permitted to supply the omission and set it up by
bill in chancery.
This court has never departed from th3 foregoing rule, nor
allowed the circuit courts to depart from it in cases brought
here. Nor can we do so without violating the sixteenth section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, in its true sense. Apparent aberrations may be found, but they are only apparent.
We order that the decree below be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to -be heard, on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, and was- argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause beq and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

HENRY D. HUFF,

JOHN BULLEN, AND SAMUEL HALE, PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR, V. CHAMPION J. HUTCHINSON, -WHtO ,SUES FOR THE
USE OF WILLIAM W. HURLBUT, JOSEPH. A. SwEETZER, PHILIP
VAN VALXENBURGH, AND GEORGE S. PHILLIPS.

Where the marshal "of the District of Wisconsin attached property at the suit of
creditors in New York, and thdn gave it up upon the a--ecutiort .a bond to himself, for the use of those creditors, it was within the #arisdiction of the District

Court of the United States for Wisconsin, to entertlin a suit by the marshal,
suing upon the bond for the New York creditois, against the claimants in Wisconsin, although both-parties resided in the same State.
The name of the marshal was merely formal; the real plaintiffs were averred to be
citizens of New York.

It was not a good exception upon the ground of variation *between the evidence and
declaration, that the latter stated the bond to have ben'given to Hlutchinson as
marshal of the DiStrict of Wisconsin, and the former stid the State of Wisconsin.
They mean the same thing.
Judgment having been rendered for the plaintiffs in the attachment, by a court having
jurisdiction over the subject, it was too late to object to those proceedings in a suit

upon' the bond, in which they were collaterally introduced.
The bond given to the m shal was In conformity with the statute.

