24

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte William Many.

It is therefore precisely one of the cass enumerated in the
25th section of 'the alct of 1789, in which jurisdiction is conferred upon this court, and in which the jtLdgment of the State
Court may be reviewed upon writ of error. For the construction of an act of Congress was drawn in question, and the
decision of the court was against the right claimed under it, by
the-plaintiff in error.
As to the authority of the Superior Court of the City of New
York to retain the case, and the validity or invalidity of its
procebdings and judgment, after the motion to remove; that
question, according to the practice of the court, will stand for
hearing when the case is reached i1 i the regular call of. the
docket. But the motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction in
-this court, is overruled.
Order.
On consideration of the motion, made on a prior day of the
present term of this court, to dismiss this writ of error, and of
the argament of counsel thereupon had, as well in support of
as against the motion, it is now here ordered by the court that
the said motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

EX PARTE WILLIAM MANY.
Where there was a blank in the record of the Circuit Court in the taxation of the

costs recovered by the plaintiff, and the judgment being affirmed by this Court, a
mandate with the same blank went down to the Circuit C6urt; and a motion was
there made to open the original judgment for the purpose of taxing the costs,

which motion was refused by the court, such refusal cannot be reached by a mandamus from this court.
The refusal of the court was not a ministerial act, but an exercise of judicial discretion. This court could issue a. mandamus for the Circuit Court td prcceed to
judgment, but such a writ would not be appropriate to te present ease.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
A motion hds been made for a rule ,on the District Judge of
the Massachusetts District, to show cause why he should not
proceed to 'adjudicate and.. allow the petitioner's costs in an
action at law in the Circuit Court. The rule is moved for upon
the District Judge, because he alone was holding the Circuit
Court when the decision was made whidh has given rise to this
application.
The case is this: Many recovered a judgment in the Circuit

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

25

Brown et al. v. Aspden et al.

Court for the District of Massachusetts against Sizer and others,
for.the infringement of a patent right. ' The* judgment was entered in the following words: " It is thereupon considered by the court, that the said William V. Many recover against the said George W. and Henry
Sizer the sum of seventeen handred and thirty-three dollars and
"
seventy-five cents damages and costs of suit taxed at
The judgment was rendered in 1848; and upon writ of error
brought by the defendants, it was affirmed in this court at December term, 1851. The costs were not taxed in the Circuit
Court before the removal, and the blank left for theni remained
unfilled when the judgment was affirmed. The usual mandate
issued to the Circuit Court to carry the judgment into execution, and the blank space for costs was necessarily left in the
mandate, in order to conform to the judgment of the court below, as it appeared in the transcripv' ransmitted to this court.
Upon the return of the case to the Circuit Court, the counsel
f6r the plaintiff moved that his costs be taxed by the clerk as
and for the October tern, 1848, and that an order be made
arnending the record- L/ the judgment of the Circuit Court so
as to insert therein the amoun+ of the taxation, and that an execution on the judgment so amended be ihsued.
The court refused to allow the amendment to be made, and
overruled the motion. And we think its judgment" whether -it
be correct or not, cannot be revised in the form of proceeding
moved for on behalf of the plaintiff. The decision of the Circuit Court was not a mere ministerial act. It was the decision
of a court of competent jurisdiction made in the exercise of
judicial authority and discretion. This court might unquestionably issue a mandamus to the court below to proceed to
judgment. But in this case the court has proceeded to judgAnd
ment, upon the question submitted for its decision.
whether that judgment be erroi.eous or not, this court has not
jurisdiction to reexamine it in a proceeding by mandanus.
The motion for a rule to show cause must therefore be overruled for want of jurisdiction.

JOHN A. BROWN, ADINlqISTRATOR OF JOHN ASPDEN, DECEASED,
ET AL., APPELLANTS, V. AIATHIAS AsPDEN's ADMIINISTRATOI{S,
ET AL.
A reargument of a cao decided by this court will not be granted, unless a member
of thu court, who concurred in the judgment, debircs it; and when that is the case,
it will be ordered without waiting for the application of counsel.
VOL. XIV.
3

