DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

23

Kanouse v. Martin.
CORNELIUS KANOUSE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN M. MARTIN.
Where a motion was made, under the 12th section of the Judiciary Act, to remove a
cause from a State Court to the Circuit Court of the United States, notwithstanding which the State Court retained cognizance of the case, and it .was ultimately
brought to this court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act a motion to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction cannot be sustained. The question will remain to
be decided up on the full hearing of the case.

A MOTION was.made by air.Martin,to dismiss this case, which
was argued by himselt and 31r. Ga,.
The circumstances, upon which the motion was based, are
stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, directed to'the Superior Court of the
City of New York, and a motion has been made by the defendant
in error to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.
The record shows that a suit was brought by the defendant in
error against the plaintiff, in the State Court above mentioned;
the former leing a citizen of New York, and the latter a citizen
of New Jersey. The plaintiff in error, at-the time of entering
his appearance in the State Court, filed-his petition, stating the
citizenship of the parties, and praying for. the-removal of the
cause for trial into the next Circuit Court, to be held in the dis.
tiict where the said suit was pending;,and, at the same time,
offered good and sufficient security for his entering in such court,
on the first day of the session, copies of the process against him,
and also for his then appearing and entering special bail in +he
cause.
The *State Court, however, refused to permit the cause to. be removed; and after the petition was filed and the bond given, proceeded in the case, and finally gave judgment against the plaintiff in error for the sum of money mentioned in the record.
Various proceedings, it appears, were afterwards had in the
appellate courts, of the State, in relation to this judgment, but
the decision in these courts was also against the plaintiff iji
error; and the judgment rendered in the Superior Court of the
City of New York, still remains there and is in full force, if thaf
court -had jurisdiction of the case after the application to
remove it.
The case then, as it stands on the motion, is this: The plaintiff in error claimed the right to remove this cause from the
State Court to the Circuit Court of the United States, under
the 12th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. The right claimed
was denied by the S.tate Couri, which retained the case, and
proceeded to give a final judgment against him.

24

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte William Many.

It is therefore precisely one of the cass enumerated in the
25th section of 'the alct of 1789, in which jurisdiction is conferred upon this court, and in which the jtLdgment of the State
Court may be reviewed upon writ of error. For the construction of an act of Congress was drawn in question, and the
decision of the court was against the right claimed under it, by
the-plaintiff in error.
As to the authority of the Superior Court of the City of New
York to retain the case, and the validity or invalidity of its
procebdings and judgment, after the motion to remove; that
question, according to the practice of the court, will stand for
hearing when the case is reached i1 i the regular call of. the
docket. But the motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction in
-this court, is overruled.
Order.
On consideration of the motion, made on a prior day of the
present term of this court, to dismiss this writ of error, and of
the argament of counsel thereupon had, as well in support of
as against the motion, it is now here ordered by the court that
the said motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

EX PARTE WILLIAM MANY.
Where there was a blank in the record of the Circuit Court in the taxation of the

costs recovered by the plaintiff, and the judgment being affirmed by this Court, a
mandate with the same blank went down to the Circuit C6urt; and a motion was
there made to open the original judgment for the purpose of taxing the costs,

which motion was refused by the court, such refusal cannot be reached by a mandamus from this court.
The refusal of the court was not a ministerial act, but an exercise of judicial discretion. This court could issue a. mandamus for the Circuit Court td prcceed to
judgment, but such a writ would not be appropriate to te present ease.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
A motion hds been made for a rule ,on the District Judge of
the Massachusetts District, to show cause why he should not
proceed to 'adjudicate and.. allow the petitioner's costs in an
action at law in the Circuit Court. The rule is moved for upon
the District Judge, because he alone was holding the Circuit
Court when the decision was made whidh has given rise to this
application.
The case is this: Many recovered a judgment in the Circuit

