CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Ex parte
Ewhich
Kearey.

must be regarded as applying exclusively to the note
was offered in evidence, and was payable in
fifty'four days after date : and if that note had been
declared on, its influence on the cause would deserve
serious consideration ; but it cannot be used in support of the other count, for the testimony, in terms,
confines this promise to payment of the n .-, and says
not a word of his undertaking to repay the money
which the Bank had loaned to him, or which he had
received for their use.
The opinion of the Court then is, that the Bank
can only recover from the administrators of Page, if
at all, on his endorsement ; but that, having set forth
the note incorrectly, and there not being sufficient
evidence to support the second count, the present action cannot be sustained. The judgment of the
Circuit Court is therefore reversed ; andjudgment is
to be entered for the defendants below.

[CoNsTITUTIONAL LAW.]

Ex pare KEARNEY.
This Court has authority to issue a hWdea corpus, where a person is

imprisoned under the" warrant or order of any other Court of (ho
United States.
But this Court has no appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases, confided
to it by the laws of the United States, and cannot revi~c the judgments of the Circuit Courts, by writ of error, in any ,case where a
party has been convicted of a public offence.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Hence the Court will not grant a habeas corpus, where a party has
been committed for a contempt adjudged by a Court of competent
jurisdiction.
In such a case, this Court will not inquire into the sufficiency of the
cause of commitment.
The case of Crosby, Lord M7~ayor of London, 3 Wits. 188. commented
on, and its authority confirmed.

1822.
Ex parte
Kearney.

Mr Jones moved for a habeas corpus to bring up Feb. 9th.
the body of John.T. Kearney, now in jail, in the custody of the marshal, under a commitment of the
Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, for an
alleged contempt. The petition stated, that on the
trial of an indictment in that Court, the petitioner
was examined as a witness, and refused to answer a
certain question which was put to him, because he
conceived it tended materially to implicate him, and
to criminate him as a particeps criminis. The objection was overruled by the Court, and he having
persisted in refusing to answer the question, was
committed to jail for the supposed contempt; and
for no other cause.
Mr. Jones, for the petitioner, now argued, 1. That
this Court has power to issue the writ of habeas
corpus in every case .where the personal liberty of
the citizen is restrained under the judicial authority
of the union. The jurisdiction is settled by a uniform series of decisions. It had been exercised in a
case of treason ;a in a case where the warrant of commitment was defective, in not showing a goqd cause
a The United States v. Hamilton, 3 Dall. 17.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

certain, on oath or' affirmation ;" and, at last the
case of Bollman & Swartwout' settled the power of
Ex parte
Kearney. the Court to be uiiversal, and co-extensive with the
general judicial power of the Union. 2. He insisted
that a fit case was made out to justify the exercise of
the jurisdiction upon the present application. The
jurisdiction of this Court cannot depend upon the
nature of the commitment by the other Court. The
writ of habeas corpus is a writ of right, and the nature and grounds of the commitment are to be looked
into on the return. This Court must have power to
issue the writ where an hnferior Court commit even
for a contempt; because if the process of contempt
be a branch of criminal judicature, considered as a
punishment for an offence, this Court has authority
to control all inferior Courts and magistrates. In
England, the Court of Common Pleas, although a
tribunal of original and civil jurisdiction only, has,
from the earliest times, exercised the authority of issuing the writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the
cause of commitments by other jurisdictions.,
1822.

Mr. Swan, (District-Attorney,) contra, admitted
that this Court had a general power of issuing the
writof habeas corpus ad subjiciendum to all the other
a Ex parte Burford, 3 Cranch, 448.
b 4 Cranch, 75.
c Wood's Case, 3 Wils. 173. Scroggs v. Coleshili, Dyer,
175. 4 Inst. 290. Bushell's Case, Sir T. Jones' Rep. 12. 2
W. B1. 745. 2 Hale's P. C. 144. Moor, 838. 1 Hale P. C.

399. 406. 446.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

courts and officers of the United States, but insisted
182!2.
that this was not a case in which the Court could Ex pirte
exercise the authority.

Because the Circuit Court

cearny.

for the District of Columbia was an inferior tribunal, it did not, therefore, follow, that an appeal lies
to this Court from its judgment in criminal cases.
This Court has no appellate jurisdiction in criminal
cases. It can only revise the decisions of the Circuit Court, in such cases, where there is a certificate
of a division 6f opinion o "the judges below. Here
there was no doubt the Court had jurisdiction of the
case in which the party was committed for refusing
to answer a question put to him, and which the
Court had determined he was bound to a1IsAmer.
This Court cannot revise the principal case by an
appellate process, neither can it revise that which
has incidentally arisen out of it. Every Court of
justice must have a discretionary power of punishing
contempts ; and if an appeal were allowed upon
every interlocutory judgment of this sort, there
would be the greatest possible embarrassment and
confusion.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the F. 2t,,.
Court, and after stating the case, proceeded as follows :
Upon the argument of this motion, two questions
have been made : first, whether this Court hhs authority to issue a habeascorpus, where a person is in
jail, under the warrant or order of any other Court of
the United States ; secondly, if it have, whether, upon the facts stated, a fit case is made out to justify
the exercise of such an authority.
V r.. VIT.

6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.

As to the first question, it is unnecessary to say

~
Ex parte

more, than that the point has already passed in rem
ebarney. judicatam in this Court. In the case of Bollman and
Swartwout, (4 Cranch 7.5.) it was expressly decided,
upon full argument, that this Court possessed such
an authority, and the question has ever since been
considered at rest.
The second point is of much more importance.
It is to be considered, that this Court has no appellate
jurisdiction confided to it, in criminal cases, by the
laws of the United States. It cannot entertain a writ
of error, to revise the judgment of the Circuit Court,

in any case where a party has been convicted of a
public offi-nee. And undoubtedly the denial of this
authority proceeded upon great principles of public
policy and convenience. If every party had a right
to bring before this Court every case, in which judgment had passed against him, for a crime or misdemeanor or felony, the course ofjustice might be materially delayed and obstructed, and, in some cases,
totally frustrated. If, then, this Cdurt cannot directly
revise a judgment of the Circuit Court in a criminal
case, what reason is there to suppose, that it was intended to vest it with the authority to do it indirectly ?
It is also to be observed, that there is no question
here, but that this commitment v as made by a Court
of competent jurisdiction, and in the exercise of an
unquestionable authority. The only objection is, not
that the Court acted beyond its jurisdiction, but that
it erred in its judgment of the law applicable to the
case. If, then, we are to give any relief in this case,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

it is by a revision of the opinion of the Court, given in
the course of a criminal , trial, and thus asserting a
right to control its proceedings, and take from them
the conclusive effect which the law intended to give
them. If this were an application for a habeas corjus, after judgment on an indictment for an offence
within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, it could
hardly be maintained, that this court could revise
such a judgment, or the proceedings -which led to
it, or set it aside, and discharge the prisoner. There
is, in principle, no distinction between that case and
the present ; for when a Court commits.a party for a
contempt, their adjudication is aconviction, and their
commitment, in consequence is execution; and so the
law was settled upon full deliberation, in the case of
Brass Crosby, Lord Mayor of London, (3 Wilson,
188.)
Indeed, in that case the same point was before the
Court as in this. It was, an application to the Court
of Common Pleas for a habeas corpus to bring up
the body of the Lord Mayor, who was committed
for contempt by the House of Commons. The habeas corpus was granted, and upon the return, the
causes of contempt for which the party was committed, were set forth. It was argued, that the House
of Commons had no authority to commit for a contempt; and if they had, that they had not used it rightly and properly, and that the causes assigned were
insufficient. But the whole Court were of opinion,
that the House of Commons had a right to commit
for a contempt ; and that the Court could not revise
its adjudication. Lord Chief Justice DE Gimy, on

1822.

"'
Kearney.

44

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Ex IPartc

that occasion said, "When the House of Commons
Sadjudged any thing to be a contempt, or a breach

Kearney.

of privilege, their adjudication is a conviction, and

182

their commitment in consequence is execution ; and
no Court can discharge, on bail, a person that is ii
execution by the judgment of any other Court.
The House of Commons, therefore, having an authority to commit, and that commitment being an
execution, what can this Court do? It can do
nothing, when a person is in execution by the judgment of a Court having a competent jurisdiction.
In such a case this Court is not a Court of appeal."
Again-" The courts of K. B. or C. B. never discharged any person committed for a contempt, in
not answering in the Court of Chancery, if the return was for a contempt. If the Admiralty commits
for a contempt, or one be taken up on excommunicato capiendoi this Court never discharges the
persons commiued."-Mr. Justice BLACCSTONE
said, "all Courts, by which I mean to include the two
Houses of Parliament, and the Courts of Westninster Hall, can have no control in matters of contempt.
The sole adjudication of contempt, and the punishment thereof, belongs exclusively, and without interfering, to each respective Court. Infinite confusion and disorder would follow if Courts could,
by writs of habeas corpus, examine and determine
the contempt of others."
Sothat itismost manifest from the whole reasoning
of the Court in this case, that a, writ of habeas corpus
was not deemed a proper remedy, where a party was
committed for a contempt by a Court of competent

OF THE UNITED STATES.

jurisdiction; and that, if granted, the Court could
not inquire into the sufficiency of the cause of comnmitment.

if, therefore, we were to grant the Nrit

in this case, it would he applying it in a manner not
justified by principle or usage; and we should be bound
to remand the party, unless we were prepared to abandon the whole doctrine, so reasonablejust, and convenient, which has hitherto regulated this important
subject. We are entirely satisfied to administer the
law as we find it, and are all of opinion, that, upon
the facts of this case, the motion ought to be denied.
The argument of inconvenience has been pressed.
upon us with great earnestness. But where the law
is clear, this argument can he of no avail; and it will
probably be found, that there are also serious inconveniences on the other side.
Wherever power is
lodged, it may he abused. But this forms no solid objection against its exercise. Confidence must be
reposed somewhere; and if there should he an abuse.
it will be a public grieveance, for which a remedy
may be applied by the legislature, and is not to be
devised by Courts of justice. This argument was
also used in the case already cited, and the answer of
the Court to it is so satisfactory, that it would be
useless to attempt any farther refutation.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court,
that the motion be overruled.
Writ denied."
a VidefAnte, Vol. VT. p .204. Anderson v. Dunn, where it was
determined, that an action could not be maintained against the
Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives for imprison

1822.
Ex parte
Kearney.

