CASES IN THE SUPiREME COURT

356
I8 2.

(CoMmoN LAw.]

Evans
V

Eaton.

EVANS "V. EATO'"
A party cannot entitle himself to a patent for more than his own invcn
tion ; and if the patent be for the whole of a machine, he can maintain a title to it only by establishing that it IQQ,,1btantially now in itO
structure and mode of operation.
If the same combination existed before in machines of the same nature up
to a certain point, and the party's inventica consists in adding some
new machinery, or some improved mode of operatign, to the old, the
patent should be limited to such improvement; for if it includes the
whole machine, it includes more than his invention, and therefore
cannot be supported."
Wlien the patent is for an improvement, the nature and extent of the
improvenent must be itated in thu specification, and it is not sufficient
that it be made out and shown at the trial, or established by compa.
ring the machine specified in the patent with former machines in use.
The former judgment of this Court in the sbLme case, (ante, Vol. 111. p,
454.).commented on, explained, and confirmed.
A person having an interest only in the question, and not in te event of
the suit, is a competent witness.
In general, the liability of a witness to a like action, or his standing in
the same predicament with the party sued, if the verdict cannot be
given in evidence for or against him, is an interest in the question,
and does not exclude him.

to the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania.
This is the. same case which was formerly before
this Court, and is reported ante, vol. 3. p. 454. ; and
by a reference to that report, the form of the patent,
the nature of the action, and the subsequent proceedings, will fully appear. The cause was now again
brought before the Court upon a writ Qf error to the
judgment of the Circuit Court, rendered upon the
new "trial, had in pursuance of the mandate of this
Court.
Upon the new trial, several exceptions were taken
ERROR

OF THE UNITED STATES

by the counsel for the plaintiff, Evans. The first
was to the admission of one Frederick.as a witness
for the defendant, upon the-ground of his interest in
on the
the suit. The witness, on his examination
voir. dire, denied that he had. any interest in the
cause, or that he was bound to contribute to the expenses of it. He said that he had not a Hopperboy
in his mill at present, it being then in Court; that it
was in his mill about three weeks ago, when he
gave it to.a person to bring down -to Philadelphia;
and that his Hopperboy spreads and turns the meal,
cools it some, dries.it, and gathers it to the bolting
chest. Upon this evidence, the plaintiff's counsel
cpntended that Frederick was not a competent witness ; but the o'bjection was overruled by the Court.
Another exception was to the refusal of the Court,
to allow the deposition of.one Shetter to be read in
evidence by the plaintiff, which had been taken according to a prevalent practice of the State Courts,
instead of --being taken pursuant to the provisions of
the act of Congress.
But the principal exceptibns were to the charge
by the Circuit Court, in summing up the cause to
the jury, which" it is deemed necessary here to insert at large.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON.

This is an action

for an infringement of the plaintiff's patent, which
the plaintiff alleges to be,
1. For the whole of the machine eniployed in the
manufacture bf flour, called the Hopperboy.
2. For an improvement on the Hopperboy.
The question is, is the plaintiff entitled to recover
upon either of these claims ? The question is stated'

1822.
Evans

r.

Eaton.

358

CASES IN THE SuPRIErAE COURT

1822.
thus singly, because the dbfendant admits that he
]Evans ~ uses the very Hopperboyj for 4,hieh the patent is. in
v.
part, granted; and justifies himself iy insisting,
Eaton.
1st. That the plaintiff was not the original inventor of, but that the same was in use prior to the plaintiff's patent, the Hopperboy as patented.
2d. That his patent for an improyement is bad;
because the nature and extent" of the improvement
is not stated in his specification ; and if it had been,
still the patent comprehends the whole machine, and
is therefore too broad.
1st. The first is a. mixed . question of fact and
law. In order to enable you to decide the first, it
will be well to attend to the description, which
the plaintiff has given of this machine, in his specification, a model of which is now before you.
Its parts are, (1.) An upright round shaft, to revolve on a pivot in the floor. (2.) A leader or
upper arm. (3.) An arm set with small inclining
boards, called flights and sweepers. (4.) Cords
from the leader to the arm to turn it. (5.) A weight
passing over a pulley, to keep the arm tight on the
meal. (8.) A log at the top of the shaft to turn it,
which is operated upon by the water power of thL
mill,
The flights are so arranged as to track the one
below the other, and to operate like ploughs, and at
every revolution of the machine to give the meal
two turns towards the centre. The sweepers are
to receive the meal from the elevator, and to trail
it round the circle' for the flights to gather it to the
centre, dind also to sweep the meal into the bolt.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

359

The use of this machine is stated to be, to spread
1822.
any granulated substance over a floor ; to stir and
Erans
v.
expose it to the air, to dry and cool it, and to gather
Eato.
it to the bolt.
The next inquiry under this head is, when was
this discovery made ? Joseph Evans hassworn. that
in 1783 the plaintiff informed-.him, that he was engaged in contriving an improvement in the manufactory of flour, and had completed it in his mind,
some time'in July of that year. In 1784 he. constructed a rough model of the Hooperboy, but having no cords from the extremities of the leader to
those of the arm, it was necessary, in making his
experiments, to turn around th6 arm by hand. In
1785 he set up a Hopperboy in his mill, resembling
the model in court, and the- machine described in
his specification. 'The. evidence of Mr. Aderson
strongly supports this witness, a4nd, in'deed, the discovery as early as 1784 or 1785 is scarcely conitro-verted by the defendant.
The defendaht insists that a Hopperboy, similar
to .the plaintiff's, was discovered, and in use, many,
years anterior, even to. the -year 1783, 'and relies
upon the testimony of*the foll6wing witnesses:
Daniel Stouffer; who deposes, thAt lie first saw
the Stouffer Hopperboy in his, father's, Christian
Stouffer's mill, in the year 1764. In the year 1775
or 177'6, he eriected a similar one, in the mill of his
brother Henry, and another in Jacob Stouffer's mill.
in 1777, 1778, or 1779.

360

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Philip- Frederick swears, that in 1778 he saw a
Hopperboy in operation in Christian Stoulmill, and in the year 1783 he saw one in Jacob
NV. fer's
Stouffer's mill, and another in U. Charles' mill, 'and
Eaton.
132C.

'Stouffer
Evans

that it was always called Stouffer's machine.
George Roup stated, that in 1784, he erected one
of these Hopperboys in the mill of one Braniwar;
and that in 1782 Abraham Stouffer described to him
a similar machine, which his. father 6sed in his mill.
Christopher Stouffer, the son of Christian, has
sworn, +bat his father, having enlarged his mill, in
the year 1780, erected a new Hopperboy of the description above mentioned, which is still in use in
the same mill, now owned by Peter Stouffer.
If these witnesses are believed by the jury, they
establish the fact asserted by the defendant, that
the Stouffer. Hopperboy was in use prior to the
plaintiff's discovery.
The next inquiry is into the parts, operation, and
use of the Stouffer Hopperboy. This consists of
an upright square shaft, which passes lightly
through a square mortice in an arm, underneath
which are-fixed slips of wood, called flights, and the
arm is turned by a log on the upper end of it, which
is moved by the power which moves the mills.
The arm, with the flights, operates as it turns
upon the meal placed below 't, -and its use is, in a
degree, to' cool the meal and to conduct it to the
bolt. It will now be proper to compare this machine wiih the plaintiff's. They agree in the following. particulars. rI ney each consist of a shalt, or
log, to turn it by the power of thb mill, and an arm

OF THE UNITED STATES.

with flights on the under side of it. They each
operate on the mill below the arm, to cool, dry,
and conduct it to the bolt.
In what do they differ? The plaintiffs shaft is
round, and consequently could not turn the arm,
into which it is loosely inserted, if it were not for
the-cords which connect"the extremities of the arm
to those of the leader. The shaft or the Stouffer
Hopperboy is square, and therefore turns the arm
without the aid of a leader or of cords. It has
neither a weight nor pulley, nor are the flights arranged in the manner the plaintiff's are, and consequently it does not, in the opinion of most of the
witnesses, cool or prepare the flour for packing as
well as the plaintiff's.
The question "oflaw now arises, which is, are the
two machines, up to the point where the difference
commences, the same in principle, so as .to.invalidate
the plaintiff's claim to the Hopperboy as the original inventor of it? I take the rule to be, and so it
has been settled in this, and in other Courts, that if
the two machines be substantially the same, and
operate in the same manner, to produce the same
result, though they may differ in form, proportions,
and utility, they are the same in principle ; and the
one last discovered has no other merit than that of
being an improved imitation of the one before discovered and in use, for which no valid patent can be
granted, because he cannot be considered as the
original inventor of the machine. If the alleged
inventor of a machine, which differs from another
previously patented, merely in form and proportion,
VOL. WT

46

1822.
Evans

V.
Eaton,

CASES IN THE SUPREDIE COURT

S62
1822.
Ea
Evans

V.
Eaton.

but not in principle, is not entitled to a patent for an
improvement, which he cannot be by the 2d section of the law, he certainly cannot, in a like case,
claim a patent for the machine itself
The question for the jury then is, are the two
Hopperboys substantiall'y the same in principle?
not whether the plaintiff's Hopperboy is preferable
to the other. Because if that superiority amounts
to an improvement, he is entitled to a patent only
for an improvement, and not for the whole machine.
In the latter case the patent would be too broad, and
therefore void when the patent is single.
If you are of opinion that the plaintiff is not the
original inventor of the Hopperboy, he cannot obtain a verdict on that claim, unless his is an excepted
case. The 1st, 2d, 3d, and 6th sections of the
general patent law conclusively support this opinion.
But the judgment of the Supreme Court in this
case is relied upon by the plaintiffIs counsel to prove
that this is an excepted case; insomuch that the
plaintiff is entitled to a verdict, although you should
be satisfied that he is not the original inventor of
the Hopperboy. But we are perfectly satisfied that
the interpretation put rpon the last clause of the
judgment by the plaintiff's counsel is incorrect; and
that for the following reasons. 1. The question of
priority of invention was not beiore the Supreme
Court; and it is therefore incredible that any opinion, much less ajudgment, would have been given
upon that point. The error in the charge, which
a3 Wheat. Rep. 519,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this part of the judgment was obviously intended to
correct, is stated by the Chief 4Jstice in the follow-.
ing words:
"The second error alleged in the charge, is in directing the jury to- find for the defendant, if-1hey
"should.be of opinion that the Hopperboy
was in use
prior to he improvement alleged to be made thereon
by Oliver Evans.
"This part of the charge seems to be founded
-on -the opinion, that if the patent is to be consiered as a grant of the exclusive use of distinct improvements, it is a giant for the Hopperboy itself,
and not for an improvement on. the Hopperboy."--p. 512.
It contradicts what is stated in p. 51 7, where it is
said that the -plaintiff's claim -is to the machine
"which he has invented." &c. Now, if he did not
invent the Hopperboy he has no claim to it; and if
so, could the Court mean to say, that he was -evertheless entitled to recover under that claim ? Such
a decision was certainly not called for by the terms
of the ' I act for the relief of Oliver Evans," but
would seem to be in direct violation of it. The act
directs a patent to issue to Oliver Evans, not for -his
Hopperbay,,elevator,&c., but "for his invention, discovery, and improvement in the art, &c., and on the
several machines which he has discovered, invented,
and improved." Now if the Hopperboy was. not
invented, &e. by 0. E., this act, without which 0.
E. could not have obtained a patent, did not au.
thorize the Secretary of State to grant him one for
that machine; or if granted, it is clear that it was

1822.

EtO.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18!.

k'AEvans
. V.

Eton.

improvidently done. If, indeed, the Supreme Court
had be n of opinion, that the fact of Oliver Evans'
prior invention was decided, and could constitutionally have been decided by Congress, there might
have been more difficulty in the case; but the argument of counsel, which pressed that point upon the
Court, was distinctly repudiated. We conceive that
the meaning of that-part of the opinion is, that this
Court erred in stating to the jury that 0. Evans
was not entitled to recover, if the Hopperboy (that is
the original Hopperboy) had been in use prior to
the plaintiff's alleged discovery of it ; because if
the plaintiff was entitled to claim an improvement
on the Hopperboy, which this Court had denied, and
which the Supreme Court affirmed, this Court was
clearly wrong in saying to the jury that the plaintiff
could not recover for his improvement, which, in
effect, was said. Upon the whole, then, the Court is
of opinion, that 0. Evans is not entitled to a verdict
in his favour as the inventor of the Hopperboy : if
you should be of opinion that another -Hopperboy,
substantially the same as his in principle, as before
explained, up to the point, where any alteration or
improvement exists in his Hopperboy, was invented,
and in use prior to the plaintiff's invention or discovery, however they may differ in mere form, proportions, and utility.
2d. The plaintiff's next claim is to an improvement
on a: Hopperboy, which claim, we were of opinion
in another case, has received the sanction of the Supreme Court. His couusel contend that his improvement is, (1.) on the original method of supplying the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
bolt, by manual labour ; (2.) on his own Hopperboy; and (3.) on some Hopperboy, invented by some
other person. Let this position be analyzed.

1. It is said to be an improvement on the original

method by manual labour. But it is obvious that if
this be the invention, it is of an original machine,
because wherever the patent law speaks of an improvement, it is on some art, machine, or manufacture,
&c., and not on manual labour, which was applied
to the various arts long before the invention of machinery to supply its place.
2. An improvement on his own discovery.
But where is the evidence of such invention ? It is
true that JoseFh Evans has stated that the plaintiff constructed, in 1784, a rude model of a Hopperboy; but
it was no substitute for manual labour, because without the cords or leading lines, the arm could not
move, and it was therefore turned by hand. It was,
in fact, in an incomplete state ; in progress to its
completion, but not given out, or prepared to be given
out to the world as a machine, before 1785 ; when
the cords to turn the arm were added.
3. An improvement on a former machine.
This is a fair subject for a patent; and the plaintiff
has laid before you strong evidence; to prove that his
Hopperboy is a more useful machine than the one
which is alleged to have been previously discovered and
in use. If, then, you are satisfied of this fact, the point
of law which has been raised by the defendant's
counsel, remains to be considered, which is, that the
plaintiff's patent for an improvement is void, because

365
1822.
Evan

"1.
Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR1T

1822.
O
Evamg
V.Eaton.

the nature and extent of his improvemerits are not
stated in his specification.
The patent is for an improved Hopperboy, as desoribed in the specification, which is referred to, and made
part of the patent. Now, does the specification express in what his improvement consists ? It.states
all and each of the parts of the entire machine, its use
and mode of operating, and claims as his invention,
the machine, the peculiar properties or principles of
it, viz. the spreading, turning, and gathering the meal,
and the rising and lowering of its arm,,by its motion
to accommodate itself to the meal under it. But
does this description designate the improvement, or
in what it consists ? Where shall we find the original
Hopperboy described either as to its construction,
operation,.or use; or by reference to any thing, by
which a knowledge of it may be obtained ? Where
are the improvements on such original stated? The
undoubted truth is, that the specification communi-cates ,no information whatever upon any -of these
parts. This being so, the law, as to ordinary cases,
is clear that the plaintiff cannot recover for an improvement. The 1st section of the general patent
la%- speaks of 'an improvement as an invention, and
directs the patent to issue for.this said invention.
The 3d section requires the applicant to swear or
affirm that he believes himself to be the true inventor of the art, machine, or improvement, for which
he, asks a patent; 'and further that he shall deliver a
written description of his invention, in suoh'.full,
clear, and -exact terms, that any person acquainted
with the art, may know how to cobnstruct and use

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the same, &c. That it is necessary to the validity of
a patent, thatthe specification should describe in what
the improvement consists, is decided by Mr. Justice
STORY, in the cases referred to in the appendix to
3 Wheat. Rep. and in the cases of Bombpn v. Bule,
Boville v. Poor, .Mt'Farlane v. Price, Harmer v.
Playne; and perhaps -some others. What are the
reasons upon which this doctrine is founded ? They
are to guard the public against an unintentional infringement of the patent, during its continuance, and
to enable an artist to make the improvement, by a
reference to some known and certain authority, to
be found among the records of the office of the Secretary of State, after the patent has run out. But it
is contended by the plaintiff's counsel, that the law
would be unreasonable to require, and that it does
not require this to be done, unless the improvement
is upon a patented machine, a description of which
can be obtained by a reference to tho records of the
Secretary of State's office; that it might often be
impossible for the patentee to discover, and consequently to describe the parts of a machine in use,
perhaps dnly in- some obscure part of the world.
The answer to this is, that an improvement necessarily implies an original, and unless the patentee is
acquainted with the original which he supposes he
has improved, he must talk idly, when he calls his
invention an improvement.
If he knows nothing of an original, then his invention is an original, or nothing: and the subsequent
appearance of an original to defeat his patent is one
of the risks, which every pateatde is exposed to un-

367
182.
EVS
Eaton.

368

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
Evans

V.

Eaton.

der our law.

As to the supposed distinctiof between

an improvement on a machine patented, and one not
so, there is nothing in it. In both cases the improvement must be described, but with this
difference :-That in the former case it may be sufficient
to refer to the patent and specification, for a description
of the original machine, and then to state, in what
the improvements, or such original consists :-whereas, in the latter case, it would be necessary to describe the original machine, and also the improvement. The reason for this distinction is too obvious
to need explanation.
If the general law upon this subject has been cQrrectly stated, the next question is, is this an excepted
case ? It is contended by the-plaintiff that it is so.
1st. In virtue of the act for the relief of 0. E.;
and 2dly, by the decision of the Supreme Court.
1. Under the private act: That declares, that the patent is to be granted in the manner andform prescribed by the general patent law. What constitutes the
manner and form in which a patent is granted by the
law? The obvious answer is, the petition-the patent,
with the signature of the President and the seal of
the United States affixed to it-the oath or affirmation
-the specification, or description of the invention,
as required by the 3d section-the drawings and
models, if required. Will it be contended that a patent
would be granted in the manner andform prescribed
by this law, if there were no description whatever
of the invention ? and if it would not, which is taken
for granted, where is the difference between the total
absence ofa specification.. and one wirch has no refe-

OF THE UNITED

rence at all to the invention for which the patent is
granted? .
This is not the.cxae of an imperfect or obscure
description; :but-of one which relates exclusively to
the wholeemachine; whereas, the invention for which
the patent is granted, is for an improvement.
2. Theopinion of the Supreme Court, which states,
,that it will be incumbent on the plaintiff, where
he claims for an improvement, to show the extent
of his improvement, so that a person understanding the subject may comprehend distinctly in what
it consists."a But how is it to be shown ? The
Court has not pointed out the manner, and we
therefore think the only fair implication is, that it
must be shown as the statute of the United States
and the general principles of law require, i. e. by the
patent and specification. If it may be shown by
parol evidence to the jury, as the plaintiff's counsel
contend it may, then it niay be fairly asked*cui bono?
which sort of a showing would then be, so far as it
would he productive of any useful purpose ? As to
the defendant, the evidence comes too late, to save
him from the consequences of an error innocently
committed. As to the public at large with a view to
caution, during the continuance of the patent, and
to information of the nature of the improvement after
its termination, the evidence given in this cause must
be evanescent and totally useless.
We feel perfectly convinced that the meaning of
the Supreme Court, as to this point, is again misunderstood by the plaintiff's counsel, not only for the
reasons above mentioned, but because the extent and
a 3 Wheat. Rep. 518.
VOL. VII.

47

569
1892.

Eatoc.

370

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
Ens
EV.

Eaton.

construction of the plaintiff's patent, and not the va-.
lidity of it, in relation to any one of the machines,were
the questions before that Court; and none dtliers (in
reference to the charge) were
argued at the bar, or

reasoned upon by the Chief Justice, in delivering
the opinion.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the plaintiff
is not entitled to a, verdict for the alleged infringe-

ment of his patent, for an improvement of the Hopperboy.
Whereupon a verdict and judgment thereon were
rendered for the defendant in the Circuit Court, and
the cause was again brought by writ of error to this
Court.
MAardc4t I.

Mr. C. Ingersoll,a for the plaintifl premised a
review of Evans' inventions and improvements as in
proof in the cause, originating in 1783, and perfected, as
regards the Hopperboy, in 1785, the grants from the
Legislatures of Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, in 1787 ; the first patent of the plaintiff under the
fdderal goviernment, in 1790, and the second in 1808,
by virtue of the special act of Congress for the relief of
Oliver Evans. The great utility ofthose improvements
was niow univerally acknowledged, while the patentee
was deprived of all their advantages. It was a singular
misfortune for him, among others, to be under the necessity of bringing his patent a second time before this
Court, for revision, in the same case, in which much
of the matter in dispute was the construction of the
opinion formerly pronounced, reversing that of the
a Some part of his argument is applicable to the points of evidence in the subsequent case of Evans v. Hettich.

OF THE UNITED. STATES.

Circuit Court of Pennsylvania, which that Court had
occasion to review; " It was the earnest hope of the
plaintiff that a full and final-decision would now take
place;-§o as tO put the subject at rest.
With respect ti Ithe matters of evidence, he contended,(..)- that David Aby was imcompetent as a
witness,, becausie he was sued in pai delicto, and of
course disposed to vacate the patent he had himiself
infringed'. Interest in such a question is equivalent
tointerest in the cause. Perhaps even the verdict
might be given in evidence, under the 6th section of
the act of 1793, c. 11, which enjoins it on the Court to
declare the-patent'void in the event of'a verdict fbr
the defendant. The plaintiff's answer to this objection.is, that as the patent is for several machines and
improvements, the -Court could not annul such a patent,, b.ut onthe.foundation of a verdict against all
the claims. But why not ? Why not declare it
void pro tanto. Everyprinciple applicabld to common cases appli.es to this. Nay, itis even more necessary, in so complicated a monopoly, to guard the
public against imposition or vexation, by demands
foundedon any part of it,-tried. and abrogated. (2.)
It was Objected to David Aby, as a witness, that he
and six otheri; including 'the defendants in these
cases, as was~ascertained on his voii'dire, combjneil
to defeat the sulits, and for that purpose contributed
a common purse to bear the expenses of'defending
them. If any surplus remained; i was to be returned by the witness, who acted as treasurer-if any
deficiencies, it was to be raised byfurther evies from
the contributors. This was breakiig down all dis-

1822.
E'.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

572
1822.
a

v.

Eaton.

tinction between bias and interest.
perhaps, to maintenance."

It amounted,

(3.) David Aby was suf-

fered to prove the existence of the Stouffer original
Hopperboy, when the notke was that evidence would
be given of the existence of the improved Hopperboy.
The notice is in 3 Wheat. Rep. 470. By this, a coinplete surprize was inflicted on the plaintiff. The defendant's position was, that for this purpose, he waived the notice of special matter and gave the evidence,
under the general issue, as proof of non-user. But
as the notice is equivalent to a special plea, was it
competent to the defendant, after putting it in, to
abandon it on the trial ? There no doubt are cases
when the defendant might avail himself of the general issue.' But this was a case of special matter,
tending to prove that the specification does not contain the whole truth, or that the thing was not originally discovered by the patentee. The decisive
proof of this position is, that the defendant was al-'
lowed to use the same evidence to show that the
plaintiff was not original with his Hopperboy, which
he used to show that the defendant did not use the
Hopperboy. It was an evasion of the wholesome
provisons of the sixth section of the act of 1793,1
calculcated to destroy a patent by means which
It
a patentee never could possibly controvert.
was an aggravation of these objections that the
Court charged the jury, that after a witness was ruled by the Court to be competent, thejury could not
a 5 Burr. 2730.

Phill. Ev. ch. 5. p. 49.

b 3 Wheat. Rep. Appx. 27.

cAct of 1793, c. 11. s. 6.

3 lfleal.Rep. 504.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

disqualify him on the ground of discredit, but must
believe him, unless otherwise contradicted. By this
course of proceeding, the defendants were their own
witnesses, and the plaintiff was not allowed to discreditthem. (4.) The Court should have suffered the
plaintiff to prove that the son of one of the Stouffers,
and the executors of another, purchased Evans' improvements. On the former occasion, similar evidence was sanctioned as to the Stouffers themselves,
the alleged originators of the Hopperboy. And why
not the acknowledgments of their descendants and
legal representatives ? it was treated before as evidence of opinion.-If so, why not the opinion of one
generation as well as another? But it was more
than opinion. It was traditionary history of the invention and improvements. (5.) The Court should
have suffered the defendant's witness, Philip Frederick, to be asked whether Daniel Stouffer was subject to fits of mental derangement.-Stouffer was the
defendant's principal witness ; and that was a most
material circumstance in his faculty to boar credible
testimony as to remote periods and obscure circumstances. Besides, the witness, Philip Frederick, if
he had denied the fact, might have been contradicted by other testimony ; in which respect it was a
very important inquiry to be made of him, with a
view to Frederick's credit. (6.) The deposition of
Michael Forner was overruled, after that of John
Shetter had been received under precisely the same
circumstances. Neither of them was taken according to the act of Congress, which is inconvenient and
a 3 Wheat. Bep. 495. -505.

373
18-2.

v.
Eaton.

374

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
Evans

17.

Eaton.

unfair in its opera'tion. Rules for depositions wke
entered by both parties. Botlh paities took dopotitions under these rules. When the defendant offered to read Shetter's deposition,- no dbjectidn Was
made, and it w'as laid before thd jury. But when
the plaintiff offered to rcad Forner'si taked in the
same manner, and under -the same rules,'it, was objected to, and'overruled. 'The clerk testified, thuit
for 20 years the practice had bedn to' fake deposiid6ns
by 'rule,' on notice, instead 6f taking, them Under the
act of Congress, which requires no notice Where'he
witness' lives more thnf-100 miles fr6ri th6'place'of
trial. There was, therefor'e, evidenice of mutual copsent.and unders anding between the parties, deducible both from he in'variable practice, and from the
rules entered'a'nd "acted on in, these cases. Yet the
Court rejected the plaintiff's proof, and suftered the
defendant'toremaiiU asreceived in force. Thus the
plaintiff was most unexpectedly deprived of some of
his most material .testimony, while the defendhnts
themselves were their own witnesses.
The main matter 'in dispute was on the Court's
construction of the word improvement, which it imiated to the patent. • This radical difliculty escaped
notice when these caseswere before discussed in the
Circuit and Supreme Courts., 1. It was a misapprehension to suppose that the word exists at all in the
patent or specification, in connexion with the Hopperboy. The patent is for improvements in .the art
of manufacturing flour, and for 'certain other machines, one of which is denominated an improved
Hopperboy. But the distinction is obvious, between

OF THE UNITED STATES

1o22.
something patented as an improvement of a Hopperboy, and something patented as an improved Hop- ,,.Q
V.
perboy. The latter was so called, as substituting Eaton.
mere machinery for manual labor. It might be so
called as a caveat against unknown but possibly existing originals, which, in the strong illustration of the
Court, would avail a defendant if he could' prove
their existence in the mountains of China. It might
be so called, as meaning nothing more than a melioration of the inventor's own original essays. Evans'
Hopperboy was a great and most beneficial improvement, which he called an improved Hopperboy.
But it had no original. Even the bolt-filler, ascribed
to Stouffer, alleged to be of earlier origin, was as different in principle, as it was inferior in practice, to the
plaintiff's machine.
2. It was a second error of the Court, to take it for
granted, that the improved Hopperboy was not so
described ii the specification, as to distinguish it from.
all things before known or used, and to enable a person skilled in the art to make it. It *isso.described.
[Here the counsel went into a specification of the peculiar structure and properties of the Hopperboy.]
No one skilled in the art could misapprehend this description, or be misled by it. The error of the
Court was, in condescending to consider itself skilled in the art of which this is a branch. The law
does not require of patentees to describe new and
old, but merely to distinguish newftomn old. Otherwise a patent would be more complex and voluminous than i Welsh pedigree. Take a boat, for instance; must every species, from the ark downwards,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

376
1822.
-"-proved

Evans

V.
Eaton.

be described ? The peculiar properties of the imHopperboy are perfectly expl'ained. It isnot
a mere change of form and proportions, but a combination of well known materials, on new principles,
essentially set forth in the specification, so as to
prevent all interfering claims during the exclusive
term, and to impart the rights to the public afterwards. The authorities were misunderstood by the
Court in this respect. They all require, to he sure,
a discrimination, when the subject matter is an improvement: But they reqtire only an essential improvement ; not a recapitulation of the particulars of
both the old rudiments, and the new combinations, in
detail, distinguishing them in terms.
3. This, however, was a question of fact to have
been submitted to the jury, instead of being, as it
was, exclusively assumed and determined by the
Court. How can a Court decide, whether a person
skilled in the art could understand a description, and
copy a machine ? The cases are uniformly so.0
In all these cases, the Court left this inquiry as a
fact to the jury. Indeed, the 6th sect. of the act of
1793, c. I1. treats it not only as matter of fact, but
of fraud. It must appear that the specification is untrue, either deficient or redundant, in order to deceive the public. It is matter of concealment. Can
the Court infer this scienter?
4. Indeed, it may well be doubted whether any
discrimination is necessary, where, as in this case,
a 8 T. R. 95. 11 East's Rep. 101. 2 Marsh. Rep. 211.
Starkie's N.P' Rep. 199. 3 Meriv. 622. 1 Gallis. 438. 2 Gal.
lis. 51. 1. Mass. 182. 452. 3. Wheat. Rep. 514. Appx. 17

OF THE UNITED STATES.

there is but one- patent in existence. The second
sectibn of the law speaks of the case of a. prior patented machine. The Court would have the third
section to be substantive, without association with
the second and sixth. But how dan a patentee describe what he never saw ? If not before patented,
how could he see or know? If he knew, but concealed his knowledge, is it not matter of fraud? The
cases, when examined, will be found to have most
of them referred their reasoning to the point of conflicting patents. Such is the fact in Harmer v.
Playne, Bovill v. Moore, and Lowell v. Lewis. Which
explanation is all important to a correct understanding of those cases.
5. The special act of Congress for the relief of
Oliver Evans, vouchsafes him. from all technical obstacles. His improvements by that time were universally acknowledged. Congress did not mean to
forestall the ascerfainment of their originality,which
any citizen might try, if he chose, nor their utility.
But the relieving act dispenses with specification,
oath, fee, and all the other prerequisites of common
cases. It was not designed merely to prolong the
term of monopoly, but to releave it from vexations and
frivolous embarrassments. Accordingly, it uses the
term improvements,. in addition to the terms applied
to such subjects by the act of 1793 ; and confers on
Oliver Evans an exclusive right in his discoveries,
inventions, machines, and improvements in general,
and specifically. The obvious design of this act of
grace, was to relieve the grantee from all the formalities to which patentees in common are subjected,
Vor. -VII.

48

377
1822.

Er.
Eaton-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822;
EV.as
Eaton.

leaving khe question of priority or originality alone
to inquiry by the country.
Sopen
6. But even this inquiry was not competent to these
defendants, Who are citizens of Pennsylvania. The
act of assembly 6f that commonwealth, in 1786,
-onfers on Evans the exclusive right in his Hopperboy, anid inflicts penalties on all infractors of it. To
this act, the defendants directly acceded and contributed by their representatives : and it is a well settied principle, that they are bound by their legislation.a Nor is this position at All affected by the 7th
section of the act of 1793, c. 11.
Mr.- Sergeant, contra. A patent is intended to socu're to an inventor the exclusive right, for a limited
time, to his invention. At the expiration of the period, the thing thus secured is to become public property, which any one is at liberty to use. In the
mean time, every one is to abstain from using the
thing patented, at the peril of a severe responsibility in damakes. The provisions of the patenf
law have a view to these several objects, all of
which are to be ftromoted as far as possible, and reconciled wOth each other, the public security and
the benefit ,eiiig protected, as well the interests
of the inientor. He is to enjoy the fruits of his ingenuity, upon terms and conditions, which are compatible with the safety, the peace, and the interests
of other citizens'
A patent, therefore, in the first place, can only bo
a 10 East's Rep. 536.

3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 598.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for an originalinvention.

It is of no im portance,

that a man really believes' himself to be the inventor, or is the true inventor, having made the discovery himself, without even the knowledge, that the
thing he supposes himself to have -invented, was
known or used before, or described in some public
work. However honest he may be, he hai no merit,
as respects the rest of the community, in discovering What was already known and open to common
use, nor will he be allowed to appropriate the thing
to himself, because he has made a mistake. The
truth of his invention, though not an original one,
will protect him against a summary proceeding to
set aside his patent under the 10th sec. of the act of
1793, c. 11. ; but it will not avail him to enforce his
claim in an action against an individual. The want
of originality, proved by showing that the thing was
used or known before, or described in some public
work, is, in every case, a valid and conclusive defence.
Again; an invention may be of a machine, or of
an improvement on a machine ;of-something that
was entirely unknown before, or of an addition to
or alteration in what was previously known, so as
to make it more useful. Each of these is a patentable object ; but the patent, as to both, is to be for
the invention only, apd the laws that govern it, thus
understood, will be found to be exactly the same.
Novelty is an essential part of the merit, and it is only-what is new that is to be secured by the patent.
A - mistake is just as fatal to the patentee in the
one case as in the other; and if he should really be-

379
ism.

Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Evans

V.

lieve himself to have invented an improvement, when
in truth it was known, used or described before, he
could not give legal effect to his patent. There is,
however, one peculiarity in the case of patents
for Improvements. Improvement being a relative term,
presupposes the existence of something to which it
refers, known to the inventor at the time of making
the supposed improvement. If he does not know of
it, he cannot know he has improved upon it ; and
if he does know of it, he can readily describe the
improvement he has made, that is, his own invention.
A man who has never heard of a time-keeper, might
suppose himself the inventor of one; but it is impossible to conceive, that a man who has never heard
of such a thing, should believe himself to be the inventor of an improvement upon the time-keeper.
A patent for an entire machine covers the wholea patent for an improvement, on the contrary, covers
only the improvement, and necessarily supposes there
are parts which are not patented. It is the line between these, and the parts which are patented. that
defines the respective pretensions of the patentee
and' the public; and unless that line be somehow
marked, it is impossible to say where the one terminates, and the other begins.. Confusion, uncertainty,
extortion, fraud, and litigation would be the inevitable consequence.
*It is the business and duty of the inventor, then,
at the time of applying for his patent, and before he
can receive a patent, to deliver a " ' written description of his invention, and of the manner of using, or
process of compounding the same, in such full, clear,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and exact terms, as to distinguish the same fron all

1822.

other things before known, and to enable any person

Emans

skilled in the art or science of which it is a brand, or
with which it is most nearly connected, to make, cornpound, and use -the same," &c. sec. 3. This specification,is to remain in the office of the Secretary
of State, and a copy of it is every where made evidence. The design of this provision is manifest;
it is to secure to the public the use of the invention,
after the expiration of the period for which the patent is granted; and to enable individuals, in the
mean time, to know what it is that is intended to be
secured, so that they may avoid interference, or, if
they think proper, dispute the claim of originality.
For both these purposes, it was necessary that there
should be authentic and recorded evidence, accessible to all, and remaining unchangeable and unchianged. Without a specification, the patent would be
void. A specification whi'ch does not comply with
the requirements of the act of Congress, is, to all legal intents, no specification, and the patent would be
equally void, as if there were literally no specification.
In the present case, the patent is to be regarded,
either, (1.) As a patent for the whole machine, or.
(2.) As a patent -for an improvement on an old and
known machine. The utmost that can be contended.
is, that the patentee has an election to consider it as
the one, or the othex and that is a very liberal concession, inasmuch as it is founded upon the ambiguity of his own specification, from- which, generally,
a man ought not to be permitted to derive an advan-

.
Eaton.

382

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1892.

'

Eyvans
,'.

tage. But it.is clear that it cannot be a patent for
both; :that would be a legal absurdity, involving a
plaincontradiction in terms.

1. As a.patent for the whoie machine, including

the plaintiff's alleged improvement, it is void, because the plaintiff was not the original inventor of
the machine. The fact, that a. Hopperboy, known
by the name of an S. or Stouffer Hopperboy, having
all the,.essential parts of the plaintiff's machine, and
applied to the same uses and purposes, (whether
more, or less perfectly, is not material to inquire,)
existed, and was in use, before the date of the plaintiff's earliest alleged discovery, has twice been proved to the satisfaction of intelligent juries in each of
these cases, and is now to be takn.'for granted, as
conclusively established. At the former trial, the
learned jtidge who presided (Mr.,Justice WASHINGTON) instructed the jury, if they should be of opinion
that Oliver Evans was' not the original inventor, to
find for the defendant ; which they did .ccordingly,
bing fully satisfied of the-fact. Upon error to this
Court; the judgment was rev*ersed, on the ground
that the patent was not f6r the ma6hine, but for an
imtprovement ; the phrase "improved hopperboy,"
being. after muQh hesitation, deemed equivildent to
$Iimprovement" on a Hopperboy. .But the opinion
'of the Court distinctly admits, )hat indeed cannot
be questi 6 ned, that if, a,.s respects the HlQppeboy, the
patent nad been for the whole machine, ihe direction
of tht learned judge would have been right.
.In- iving to the plaintiff the bbnefit of the' alterpiativ~, the case was put in the most fhvourable view

OF THE UNITED STATES. *

383

for him. He might claim as inventor of the whole
1822.
machine, or he might claim as inventor of the im- ""Eva=s
v.
provement; but, under this patent he could not claim
Eaton.
of
must
he
either,
for
claiming
for both: and in
course abide by the settled principles of law, appli,cable to the construction of the patent thus adopted.
Each must be taken singly. The two could not be
confounded, so as to entitle him upon the one to .the
benefit of principles belonging to the other. If the
patent be for the whole machine, it is void if heis not
the original inventor; and that he is not, has been
fully established.
It is intimated, however, and will probably be insisted upon hereafter, that admitting the S. or Stouffer Hopperboy to have been previously known and
used, the two machines are so entirely different, that
Mr. Evans might well be entitled to a patent for the
whole. As a question of fact, that has been decided
by the verdict of the jury, and the identity of the
machine must now be taken for granted, unless the
jury were led to the conclusion by an erroneous
charge from the Court. What constitutes identity,
and what diversity, is frequently a -question of great
difficulty. It was the right and the duty of the
judge to inform the jury what were the principles
to guide their deliberations in deciding it, and this
he has done with admirable clearness, and in conformity with the best authority upon this abstruse
part of the law. "Where a specific machine already
exists," (says Mr. Justice STORY,) "producing certain effects, if a mere addition is made to such machine, to produce the same effects in a bettetmanner.

384

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

'1822.

Vo

Eaton.

a patent cannot be taken for the wholemachine, but for
an-improvement, only." ,, And the same learned judge
says, "the material question, therefore, is notwhether
the same elements of motion, or the same component
parts are used, but whether the given effect is produced substantially by the same mode of operation,
anfthe salie combination of 'powers, in both machines. " b The identity here is perfectly apparent
upon the description, and still more so upon inspec..
tion of the models. The object of both. is the sameto dispense with'manual labour, and supply the
hopper-to supply it gradually, in small, successive,
regular portions, by means of -the power that moves
the mill; substituting mechanical contrivances for
human agency. The effect is the same, to turn,
stir, and cool the flout, and thus prepare it for bolt.ing, before it is delivered. The construction of the
machines, as to "1the mode of operation," and ,"the
combination of powers," is the same. In both, there
is an upright shaft, with a cog, turned by the power
that moves the mill; an arm, resting lightly on the
meal, and turned by the upright shaft; something on
the under part of the arm, whether flights or sweepers, td gather in the meal to the hopper. So far,
they are the same. Now for the differences. The
plaintiff's machine has a round shaft, instead of a
square one; it has leading lines, which are necessary
in consequence of the shaft being round, and a weight
to balance the arm. These may all be improvements, but they are only improvements, and do not
makQ a different machine. The name itself bespeaks
a Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallis. 450.
b Odiorne v. Winkley, 2 Gallis. 54.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

identity: the old machine was called a bolt-filler, or
Hiopperboy; and the-plaiatiff's is called "an improved
Hopperboy."
But if the machines be so entirely different, as to
entitle the plaintiff to a patent for the whole, though
the S. Hopperboy was previously known and used,
then it would necessarily follow, that even if the
plaintiff were the original inventor of the improved
machine, and that was the first invention, yet any
one might with impunity make and use such a machine as the S. Hopperboy ; that is to say, by stripping off some of the parts, he might entitle himself
to use the residue. This is a proposition too monstrous-to be maintained. If it be sound, it decides
this case without any regard to the queition of original invention, for the defendant Eaton used only
the S. Hopperboy.
I A sure test, however, of the identity, is to consider what parts are indispensable to both machines.
They are, the upright shaft with a cog in it, the arm,
and the sweeps. With these, the machine will
work; without them, it will not. These parts are
common to both machines. What is it that the
plaintiff has added ? What is not indispensable, but
perhaps better. That is exactly the definition of an
improvement. Can he, in his improved machine,
dispense with any one of the parts that belong to the
old machine ? The answer is clear-he cannot. Can
we dispense with any of his additions ? Yes, with
all of them. The machine is complete, an efficient
agent for its purpose, without them; the evidence
even leaves it doubttul whether apart from the elevator, it is not the better of the ,wo. It is certainly
VOL: VII.

49

885
1822.
EV=m

V.
Eaton.

386
1822.
Evans
V.
Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in use, and is the very machine for the use of which
Mr. Eaton is sued. There can be no serious doubt,
that if the plaintiff has any claim, it is only for an
improvement.
2. As a patent for an improvement, it is void,
because the specification does not show in what the
improvement consists, or, in other words, what it is
that the plaintiff claims as his invention: " the nature and extent of the improvement are not stated
in his specification." This was the precise ground
of the decision below.
The counsel for the plaintiff who opened the argum'ent, was understood to concede, that if tile patent-be for an improvement, and there be nothing in
the circumstances of this particular case to make it
an exception from the general rule, the law was correctly laid down. And certainly there cari be no
doubt of this, whether We consider the spirit and
terms of the act of Congress, the decisions in England, or the adjudged cases in the United States.
The current-..of authority, of ev;ery sort, is uniform
to establish, that the invention to be patented must
be described in such full and exact terms as -to
"9distinguish the same from all things before
known." The 2d section of the act has no relation to this question. That provides for the case,
where one man has a patent for a machine, and
another for an improvement, declaring that the one
shall not be at liberty to use the invention of the
other, and thus precisely limiting their respective
rights. Doe it follow, that if a machine has not
been .patented, he who improves upon it has a right
to appropriate- the whole to himself, and withdraw

t
387

OF THE UNITED STATES

what-was before public property from the public use ?
Thai no one can afterwards make use of the old and
known machine, without •thec license of the patentee ? Thesection was. made with a different yiew,
and leaves what is not provided for upon tne same
footing on which it before stood. What was common property, remains so; the patentee of the improvement is at liberty to urse it because it is common, and -no-legislation was necessary to enable
him ;-,but he'is not allowed to appropriate it to himself to the exclusion of others, any more than to appropriate -the invention of a prior 'patentee. The
6th section, which, makes it a go.od defence, that the
patentee has stated more-or less than the truth in his
specification, "forthe .purpose of deceiving the public, -hbs no relation to the qiestion. There is no
allegation here that the machine will not-produce the
described -effectj or that more or less has been stated
for ther purpose of deceiving or misleadin'g the public, Nor is this, the Court will recollect, a summary proceeding. to set aside the patent under the
10th seeqblnf.
-But the question, 'and the only question, is whether in an -.action by a patentee against a person
chargei1 with infringing his-patent, it is not necessary
for the plaintiff to show in what his invention consists.
In the former argument of this case, this Court have
laid it down expressly, that "in all cases where his
claim is for an improvement, it will be incumbent on
him to show the extent of his improvernent,so that a
pe7 ro . understanding the subject may conprqhend
distinc;i in what it consiSts.a How is this.to- be
a 3 Wheat. Rep. 618.

1822.

"
v.

Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.

shown ? The answer is obvious-it is to be shown
Evans
from the specification. That such was the meanEvans
V'. .ing of the Court is evident from their adopting almost the very words of the act of Congress,
which
are employed to describe ,the office of the specification, "so that a person understanding," &e. That
nothing else could be their meaning is evident, for
such, it cannot be denied, is the clear design of the
act of Congress, and such is the established law as
collected from authoritative decisions. The patent
must not be more extensive than the invention ;
-therefore if the invention consists of an addition or
improvement only, and the patent is for the whole
mac:hine or manufacture, it is void.a In England)
the specification is not annexed to the patent, but is
enrolled in Chancery. Yet the, specification is a
part of the patent for the purpose of ascertaining
the nature and extent of the alleged invention.'
In this country, it is filed in the Department of
State. An authenticated copy of itis always annexed
to the patent, and- forms a part of the patent, absolutely essential, because the patent, propeily so called, in fact gives no description, referring for that to
the specification. The established formula used in
all patents, and to be found in the present patent, is,
"cthe said improvement, a description whereof is
given in the words of the said Oliver Evans himself, in the schedule hereto annexed, and is made a
part of these presents." Now, what should the paa Bull..N. P. 76.

Boulton t. Bull, H. Bl. Rep. 463.

6 Boulton v. Bull. Hornblower v. Boulton, 3 Term Rep. M&

389

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tent comprehend ? Where the combination of a certain number of the parts has existed, up to a certain
point, in former machines, the patentee merely adding other combinations, the patent should conprehend such improvements only., And the cases that
have been already referred to clearly decide, that if
the invention be of an improvement only, it is indispensable that the patent bhould not be broader than
the invention ; and the specification should be drawun
up in terms that do not include any thing but the imyrovement. It is essential to point out what is new,
and what is old, so as to show precisely the extent
of the alleged improvement. "1The patentee ought,
in his specification, to inform the person who consults it, what is new and what is old. He should
say, my improvement consists in this, describing it
by words, if he can, or, if not, by reference to
:figures. But here the improvement is neither described in words or figures; and it would not be in
the wit of man, unless he were previously acquainted with the construction of the instrument, to say
What was old and what was new. A person ought
to be warned by the specification against the use of
a particular invention. it need not be denied that
this description might be sufficiently given by reference ; as to some other patented machine, or to some
well known machine in familiar use. For instance.
to use the illustration employed by Lord Ellenboa Bevill -. B[oore, 2 Marsh. Rep. 211.
b Per Lord Ellenborough. M'Farlane v. Price, I SYarkit',

Rel. 199.

1822.
E

Y.
Eaten.

&90
1822.

Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

rough, if we- should say, take a 'common watch,
and add or alter such and suchparts, describing them.
All that is contended, and that is fully supported by
authority, and by the reason of the case, is, that the
specification must, in some way or other, distinguish
the' new from the ld, the improvement from what
was known before, so as to show what the patented
invention is, or else the patent is broader than the
invention, and void. The decided cases in the United States are to the same effect. If the inventor
of an improvement obtain a patent for the whole
machine, thepatent being more extensive than thd
invention, is void.The cases are brought together, well digested, and
the prificiples stated -in the Appendix to 3 Wheat.
Rep. 13.
How else can the extent of the improvement be
shown ? Shall it be by evidence at the trial ? Then
the design of the act would be entirely defeated, and
the specification useless. The argument of the
Court below upon this point is perfectly conclusive.
To say that the patent may be for the whole machine, and the claim for as much as the plaintiff can
prove to be original, or rather t&.; defendant cannot
disprove,, is to make the right depend, not upon the
patent, nor even upon the fact of originality, but upon the evidence the party may have it in his power
to produce and his 'intelligence and skill in applying it. The 'right, instead of being uniform every
a Woodworth v. Parker, I Gallis. Rep. 439. Whittemoro w.
Cutter, 1 Gallis. Rep. 475. Odiorne v. Winkley, 2 Gallis.
Rep. 51.

OF THE 'UNITED STATES.

where, might be one thing in one State, and another
in another. In different Courts of the same State,
it might be different. And even in the -same Court,
at different times, as the particular evidence happened to vary, it would be more or less extensive.
The patent would in effect be nothing but an outline, large enough of course, to be filled up as occasion might sbrve. This is an absurdity, and, what
Is worse, a great temptation to fraud. Besides, under this supposition, how is.any man to inform himself what itis that is patented, so that he may avoid
the danger of infringement ? It is too late at the time
of trial, to answer any good purpose to the defendant.
And how are, the public to be informed at the expiration of the time, or how is a person. of skill to be
able to make the improvement ; in short, of what
use is the specification, unless it be to define, with
precision, the extent and nature of the improvement ?
The act of Congress emphatically refers to the specification, and to that alone, as furnishing every thing,
without extrinsic aid, and so it must dot If it be
broader than the invention, the patent is void.
But it is objected here, that this was a question
for the jury, and not for the Court. Whether the
.specification is broader than the invention, may perhaps in some casesbe a question of fact, or, a mixed question of fact and of law, the construction of
the written instrument of specification being for the
Court, and the other evidence in thelease for the jury.
But, if it be "incumbent upon the plaintiff to show
the extent and nature of his improvement," and that
is to be shown from the specification, then it is plainly
incumbent upon him to show from the specification,

1991

1822.
,.

1aton.

392
18%2.
'Evans
Et.
Ratou

CASES IN THE $UPREME COURT

where he claims for.an improvement, that he has do'an improvement as distinguished from a known
machine. Aid that, it is-submitted, being exclusively
a question arising upon the face of the instrument,
is
a question for the Court. Let us examine the specification. Is there any thing in it which even professes to describe an improvement, as, distinguished
from a machine known or used before ? Does it not
plainly, and in terms, include the whole machine ?
That is evidently a question of law, upon the face of
the instrument, and it may be confidently pronounced,
that it does include the whole, and that no man can
so read the specification, as to ascertain which parts
are claimed by the plaintiff, and which are not ; or,
that there are any parts which are not claimed by
him. But, it is due to the Court, further to say,
that the charge in this respect, must, as in all other
cases, be understood with reference to the allegations and to the evidence. If there had been an attempt to prove, or even an assertion, the most distant
intimation, that men of skill in mechanics, bringing
to the study of this difficult specification, the aid of
peculiar knowledge, could discern in it a line between new and old, or any defined limits of improvement, that would doubtless fiave been fit to be heard,
and whatever matter proper for the consideration of
a jury might have arisen, would have been submitted to the jury. But no such evidence was offeredthe record shows it No such suggestion even was
made; it was not pretended-the charge shows it ;
for the part excepted to was itself a reply by the
Court, to an argument of the plaintiff's counselb

Sscribed

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which admitted that the-specification.did not show
in what the improvement consisted, by contending
for the extravagant position that it was competent to,
show it by evidence at. the trial, which is in effect to
say, that -the plaifitiff was entitled tQ whatever the
defendanrad not disproved.
It has been said, however, and to our very great
surprise, that the Court below.erred-in dealing with
this patent as a patent for an improvement ; that it
is not for an improvement, but for ark improved Hopperboy. W.hen this. case* was formerly before the
Circuit Court, that Cotirt dealt with the patent as a
patent for a Hopperboy,.and not for an improvement. Upon error to this Court, one error principally relied upon was, that the Court below had
thus construed it to be a patent for the machine.* And
it was contended that an "improved Hopperboy,"
and an "improvement on a Hopperboy," were one
and the same. "'This,"'says one of the counsel,
" was a patent for an improvement on the particular
machine in question, and not for its original invention." And of that opinion were the Court, after
much deliberation.b And can it now be contended, in
the same Court, and by the same party, that this is
not to be dealt with as a patent-for an improvement ?
But, the truth is, it has been treated in this case as a
patent for both the machine and the improvement, so
as to give the plaintiff tile full benefit of either construction. The real aim of the argument is to maina 3 Wheat. Rep. 486. 502.
Vor.. VII.

h 3 MVheat. Rep. 517.

so

$93

1822.
'

Evans

V.
Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

%wm
E.
Eaton.

tain, that a patent for the whole may be expounded
as a patent for each of the parts, and legally covering as many'as the patentee may be able to prove
he has invented ; that it may be a patent in words
,for one thing, and in law. for another; that it may
have a sort of elastic ambiguity, capable of contraction,, if not of expansion, so as to adapt itself to
whatever it may be found convenient at any given
time to embi-ade. This is against all settled principles-; it is agaitist good policy ; and it is against the
words'and the spirit of the act of Congress.
Such being unquestionably the established law
upon the subject of patents in general, -it remains
only to inquire, whether the 6ase of Oliver Evars
is on any account an exception. And it is insisted
here, that the special act for his relief makes it an
exception. The history of that act is sufficient to
show, that its only object was, to authorize a new
patent to be issued,, by reason of the first having
been declared void for irregularity of form attributable to the officers of the government, This gave an
equitable title to relief. The appropriate relief was
an extension of the time, so that the inventor might
enjoy the privileges of a patent for the same time
that he would have enjoyed them if the irregularity
had not occurred, that is to say, the same privileges,
This was sufficiently liberal, for the first patent had
actually expired before the new one was granted.
The new patent, too, was made retrospective, and
gave to Oliver Evans an exclusive right for eight
and twenty years, double the usual period ; yet it was
contended, formerly, that this special act, liberal as ;#

OF THE UNITED STATES.

confessedly- was, went the further length of dispensing. altogether with the necessity of proving he
was the:inventor, and even precluded all right to
question the invention, which. was in effect to say,
that-the exclusive privilege was.secured to him,. Avhe.ther he was.theinventor or not. That was overruled
by fhis Court. upon the plainest grounds." And the
whole scope of the opinion then delivered distitictly
establishes. that except the extension of time, and
the union of different inventions in. the same parent,
which otherwise perhaps could not be regularly
joined, the patent to be issued, was to be in all respects conforijable-to the gon'eral law, and subject to
the same regulations as-other patents. Such was
the interpretatibn of the plaintiff himself :- he applied
in the usual manner by petition, with a spetification
and oath. -Such was the interpretation of the officers
of government: the patent underwent the usual examination, and isinihe usual form. Such is at this
moment the'interpretation : for it is utpon the adoption of the general law by reference, that the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts in cases growing out
of this patent entirely rests. If that lhw be.not applicable, this Court has no power to adjudicate the
cause. It is needless to pursue this further, being
already decided by the former decision of this Court.
For-the terms and conditions upon which the patent
was to be granted---the jurisdiction to attach to
it-the rules to govern it-the special act makes no
provision, but by reference to the existing laws; and
a3 W' eat.Rep. 513.

395
18n2.
.VO
V.

EVt.

CASES IN THE SUPREMEI

1822.
vans

v.

Eaton.

COURT

but for this reference we could hot, advance a single
step i'the inquiry.
All that has been said of the act of the Legislature of Pennsylvania pissed, in the year 1787, may
be disposed-of in a single word. What its provisions
were does not appear, and if it did, the right they
conferred, svhatever it may have been-, was surrendered by acceptifig a patent under the law of the
United States. The seventh section of the. act of
Congress is express.
In conclusion, then, it isg-onfidently submitted,
that the-patent of Oliver Evans must be .considered
as a patent either for the- machine .or for. thd'"improvement.
That if it be for th6 mahine, it is voidi becadse it
is fully proved that he wis hot the origiia.1 inientor,'
but the machine was knowyj and used bef6re.
That if it be fbr an' improvement, it is void. b6cause it is broader than his invention, and does not
specify in what his improvement consists, so as to,
distinguish it from what was known and. used -before.
The learned counsel also argued the points .of
evidence in this and the next following casei(Evans
v. Hettich,) but as they are so fully .noticod in thd
opinion of the Court,. it is not thought necessary to,
report that part of his argument.
Mr. Harper, in reply, observed, that in the opinion of the Circuit Court, two propositions were distinctly affirmed: (1.) That Evans' patent of the
Hopperboy was a patent for an improvement, and
not for an original invention or discovery : and (2.)

OF THE UNITED STATES.

That being for an improvement, it was void, because
the specification did not in terms distinguish the improvements from the original machine, called !he
Stouffer Hopperboy. Both these propositions were
indispensable for supporting the judgment below.
He denied them both, and should endeavour to show
that they were equally voi& of foundation. If he
could succeed in overthrowing either, the judgment
of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the patent
right of the plaintiff supported ; but he believed, ,and
should endeavour to show, that both were wholly
unfounded.
And first, is the patent of Oliver Evans a patent
for an improvement, or for an original invention ?
The decisions of the Circuit Court maintained the
former. Ho should endeavour to demonstrate the
latter.
In the-outset of this investigation it would be proper to remark, that the specification makes part o
the patent ; and he had the authority of this Court,
in the former decision in this casea for saying, that
in order to ascertain what Oliver Evans obtained by
his patent, one of the proper points of inquiry was,
' what did he ask for? what was it his wish and int ention to obtain ? This question may be satisfactorily answered, by referring to that part of his specification which relates to the Hopperboy. This
specificatioi is printed at length in a note to 3 Wheat
Rep., and the part of it now in question is found at
p. 468. The description of the machine is very full,
a 3 Wheat. Rep. 507.

397
1822.

V.
Eaton.

398

CASES I'.THE SUPREME COURT

minute, ind clear; and it concludes with this decla~/.ration
: 4c I claim as my invention the peculiar, proEvans
Ea. o
rtie or princitles which this machine possesses:
viz. the spreading, turing, and gathering the meal,
at One operation, and the using and lowering its arms
,by its motion, to accommodate itself to any quantity
of meal it has' to operate on1."
This was 'what he claimed as his invention. For
this-he asked a patent. Notlor the inachine which
he had, thug improvbd, but ftr the principle on which
it was made to operate.. He has not very accurately
expressed himself, or'distinguished betweerl the object to be-obtained, and the. mode qf proceeding for
its attainment ;, between the end. apd the means;'
the result and the modus operandi.by which it is
produced. But. still. his meani g-isobvious. The
object,, the end to be obtained, -the retult, was the
", spreading, turning, and.gatheripg'the meal, at one
operatidn." The pyinciple of the machine, the modus
operandiby whioh the" object was toube'accomplished,
in a new and better .way, was the power of the'machine to raise and lower its arms by its own motion,
so as to accommodate itself to any greater, or less
quantity of flour on which it may have to operate.
This, then, is his invention or discovery, which lie
claims as his own,.an l for which he demandsa patent. Hi§ demand is.co.mplied with. He gets what
he asked. This is what* the grantors intended to
give him; and. I appeal again to the former decision,
for- the doctrine, that in order to ascertain what is
given; we. must look to the request of the receiver,
and the intention of the giver.
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

It is, then, a patent for the peculiar principle of his
machine, for its new mode of operating, that Oliver
Evans asked for and received. That a new modus
operanrdi, by a new combination of old instruments
or machines, so -as to produce either a new effect, or
an old effect in a new .way, is the proper subject
matter of -a patent, appears from numerous authorities, and may be considered as a settled principle of
the.patent law. It was on this principle that Watt's
patent for his improvements on the steam engine,
which made .so much noise in Westminster Hall,
and produced-..stich important effects, was finally
supported and established.'
The English law of patents, though different from
ours in its origin, was probably the same in its principles. Indeed, our act of Congress was a mere enactment of the principles and system, which the
Engish-Cou'rts had established. That system grew
out of the ancient prerogative of .the crown in England, to grant monopolies. This power, long and
often most oppressively exercised, was abolished in
the early part of James the First?s reign, by an act of
Parliament, which, was one of the earliest ftuits of
the increase of knowledgei the progress of correct
ideas, and the improvement in the condition of society, which, at that time, had begun to appear. But for
the encouragement of industry, and ingenuity a proviso was introduced into the statute, that the king
might still grant a monopoly "1 of ;ny manner of new
manufactures," to the first inventors, for any term not
exceeding 14years.a Upon this short proviso, this apaSee the case of Hornblower v. Boudton. 8 T. R. 105. The
opinion of Mr. JusticeLA~wRE Cr.

399
i82.
E.vans

v.

Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
Evns

V.
'Eaton.-•

parently scanty foundation, the whole structure of the
English patent law, ivas raised by the English govern"ment and Courts. The system which they'thus established was adopted by our act of Congress. This
system required a specificatibn. Nothing is said of
it by the itatute ; but the government required it, by
an express clause of every patent. The principle on
which it .wa required, was this: The statute conferred'a benefit on the inventor, by giving hint a monopoly of hi.invention for a limited time. For this
benefit conferred on the- patentee by the cQmDU, nity,
it was thought just that he should make a return.
That. return consisted in the knowledge and'free use
of hi§ invention, which, by his specification, he
sh6.uld enable the commu*ity to obtain, after the expiration of his monopoly. This principle enables us
not only.to understand the origin tand object of the
specification, but also its nature-and characte.y as-its
object was to puit the .public in possession of the invention, afterthe monopoly had ceased, so as to enable all pe'ronsto use it beneficially; it was indispensablp that the invention should be so fully and clearly
explained,-as to enable persons skilled in the same.
art to make and- use it. This was all that was tn
be effected by the specification, and consequently all
that it wasrequired to contain, .The very sam6 certainty ,bfdescriptionwhich would 'enable persons skilled in. the. art to make and use the invention, after the
monopoly should expire, would enable them to avoid
making and using it, so as to subject thdrnselves to
penalties or loss, during the continuance of the mo,
nopoly. "

. OF THE UNITED STATES.

In the same manner it was established, that improvements in old machines or' processes, might be
combined as 'new manufactures," and become the
subject of patents.

This principle was also incor-

porated into. our act of Congress, in express terms.
And here the -same rule was adopted with respect
to the specification. The " new manutacture,"
whether it consisted in a machine or process entirely
new, orinthe improvement of an old one, was to be described with such certainty, as to enable p.ersons skilletin the art to make and use the invention, after the
monopoly should expire, and to avoid it While the monopoly should exist. The principle and object were
the same in both cases. and the same rule was adopted in both, by our act of Congress, as well as by the
English decisions.
We shall now be able to perceive the application
of the case of Watt's patent 0 to the point under consideration ; which, let it be considered, is to ascertain how far the discovery of a new modus operandi,
so as to-produce a new effect, or an old one in a new
way, is the proper subject of a patent, as a useful
invention, and not as an improvement.
The expansive power of steam had been many years
before discovered by the Marquis of Winchester, who
applied it, though very imperfectly,. to various mechanical purpqses. Among the rest, he employed it
to put machines in motion, by communicating to
them the movement which the steam was made to
produce in beams and levers. Thus was laid the
foundation of that wonderful invention, the steam
a 8 T. R. 95.
VOL. VII.

51

401
1822.
Ev..ns

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

402
1822.

engine.

Evans

less perfect, were, from time to time, brought into
use; and at length Newcomen made a steam engine,

V.

Various machines of this kind; more or

Eaton.

which. was long considered as having attained the
utmost point of perfection. It consisted of a cyliihder or large" tube of iron, made perfectly smooth
and uniform within,' and completely closed at the
bottom, but open at the top. Inside of this cylinder was placed, horizontally, a thick strong plate of
iron, so fitted at the edges to the inner surface of the
cylinder, as to be- air tight, and yet to play easily up
and down. Into the centre of this plate was fitted
a strong upright stem of iron, of the length required ; and the stem and plate together made what
is called the piston. The upper end of the, piston
sten was fastened by a joint to a horizontal beam,
which was made fast by a joint, near the centre or
at the.'fatthest, end, so as to allow its near end to
play up and *down with the piston to which it is attached. At the bottom of the cylinder, under the
piston, was introduced a pipe or tube, leading from
the boiler, where the steam was generated, into the
cylinder, and furnished with a valve. When thjs
valve was opened, it let the steam through the pipe
into the lower part of the cylinder, under the piston, which was thus, raised up by the explosive
power of the steam, and raised with it the end of
the' horizontal beam to which it was attached.
When the piston, and with it the beam had been
raised as high as was intended, the valve in the
steam pipe was shut by the motion of the machine,
and, at the same moment, a valve was opened, by
the same means, in a pipe, which connected the

40$

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cylinder with. a vessel of cold water. A quantity
of this water was then introduced into the cylinder
under the piston, where it condensed the steam
more or less completely, and created a vacuum
more or less perfect; in consequence of which the
piston was pressed down by the weight of the atmosplieric air resting upon it, and carried down
with it the end of the horizontal beam to which it
was ;attached. When it had subsided as low as
was desired, it opened the steam valve, and let in
the steam under the piston, which was raised as before, and again presspd down by the weight of the
ak, on the steam being again condensed by.the introduction of cold water. This operation went on
'cont inually, and thus an ascending and descending
motion was- produced, which Was communicated by
the horizontal beam to the whole machinery.
The defect of this engine at length began to be
observed. It. consisted in the cooling of the cylinder by the cold water let in to condense the steam.
The cylinder being thus rendered colder than steam,
a considerable portion of the steam introduced was
condensed by this coldness, while the piston was
rising.; ago was thus destroyed before it had done
its office. This rendered a greater generation of
steam necessary, and of course a greater consumption of fuel. The steam, too, was not suddenly or
perfectly condensed, so as to let the piston descend
with sufficient rapidity or force; by which the power and effect of the machine were diminished. The
water, also, into which the steam had been converted
by condensation, remained in the bottom of the

1822.

E

V,

4o
1822.
Fvsns

Eaon.

C4S.S IR THE SUPREME COURT

cylinder, and further impeded the descent of the
piston; These defects were seriously felt in a country where fuel: was dear, and became continually
more and-more so. At length they threatened to
render: :the engine entirely useless, by creating a
greater expense in fuel than could be compensated
by the labour saving power of the machine.
Then Watt arose, who, after long reflection and
many experiments, conceived the happy idea of condensing the steam in a vessel different from that in
which it was to perform its office. This he effected by
connecting with the machine another vessel called a
connector, which was connected with the cylinder by
t pipe with a valve in it. This valve being opened by
the motion of the machine, at the same moment when
the piston had ascended to its greatest height,'the
steam rushed through it into the conductor, where it
met a stream of cold water, introduced by the same
moanswhich had been before employed for letting it
into the cylinder. This cold water condensed it as
fast as it came in ; and a pump was also contrived, to
work by the motion of the machine, and drew out of
th6 conductor all the steam that remained uncondensed and all the water produced by the condensation.
Thus a most perfect vacuum was created in the condenser, and consequently in the cylinder connected
with it ; the piston descended with freedom, rapidity,
and force; and the cylinder, not being touched or
affected by the cold water, retained a heat equal to
that of steam : so that no portion of the steam introduced into it, was condensed too soon.
This was the great improvement; but others were

OF-THE UNITED STATES.

employed to increase its effect. The cylinder was
surrounded by a case the best calculated to retain
heat, and the space between this case and the cylinder was-kept full of steam or boiling water. Thus
the cylinder was kept in the hottest possible state.;
the state best adapted to the preservation of the
steam, while performing its office : and as steam thus
preserved was found to be more effectual than atmospheric air in bringing down the piston, the top of
the cylinder was closed, and steam was introduced
above the piston as well as below it. This steam
was conducted into the condenser, and there condensed and pumped out, in the same manner with
that introduced below : and thus the piston being alternately pressed up and down, by the elastic power
of steam, in its most efficacious condition,. gave a
most powerful, steady, and uniform motion to the
engine. Oily substances were employed instead of
water, in keeping the vessels air tight; especially the
top of the cylinder, where the steam of the piston
played through it. Thus the machine was rendered
as perfect as it seems capable of becoming.
Now, in what does this machine differ from the
steam engine of Newcomen, which was in use before ? Both had a boiler to produce e steam, and
a cylinder td receive it. The piston was the same in
both, and connected in the same manner with the
horizontal beam, for the purpose of communicating
the motion to the rest of the machinery. In both
the piston was raised by the expansive power of the
steam ; this steam, after its office had been performed, was condensed by cold water, so as to create a

40
1822.
Evans

V.

Eaton.

-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

vacuum in the cylinder, and permit the piston to del,
~ scend ; and in both pipes and valves of the same con-

Evans

struction was used, for introducing alternately the

V.

Eaton.

steam and the cold water. In what, then, did they differ ? Merely in a new modus operandi,by which, with
the addition of another vessel, the cold water was prevented from cooling the cylinder, while it conducted
the steam; and the steam was made to operate in
forcing the piston down, as well as in forcing it up,
In this new modus operandi, produced by a different
arrangement and construction of the old machines,
with the addition of one new vessel, to receive and
condense the steam, consisted the great invention of
Watt; for which he obtained his patent, avowedly
as for a new invention, or in the language of the
British statute, a "new manufacture," and not for an
improvement. His specification is inserted at length
in 8 T. R. 96. note (a) where it will appear that he
speaks of his discovery as a new invention, and not
as an improvement, and never once mentions or alludes to the old machine.
In what did this new discovery consist ? I answer
with the two judges of the Common Pleas in England who were in favour of this patent, and one of
whom was Lord Chief Justice Eyre,4 and with the
four Judges of the King's Bench, who were utlanimous on the pointb that it consisted in the new principle on which the steam was condensed, and which
was carried into effect by a new combination of the
old machinery, with the addition of one new instruBoulton v. Bull, 2 R. Bi. 463.

6 8 71 R. 95.

407

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ment. The word "principle," as used in relation
to this subject, is not taken in its general philosophical sense, where it means a law of motion or a property of matter ; but in what may he termed its mechanical sense, in which it signifies a method of
doing a thing, or of effecting a purpose, in other
words, a modus operandi.
-It is therefore established by this solemn and elaborate decision of six English Judges against two,
after repeated arguments and great consideration, that
a new prihciple, or modus gerandi carried into practical and useful effect by the use of new instruments,
or by a new combination of old ones, with or without the addition of one or more new ones, is an original invention for which a patent may be supported,
without reference to any former invention or machine, for performing the, same or a similar operation.
This may be taken as a maxim which the cases referred to will be found fully to support.
Let us now apply this maxim to the patent of Oliver Evans. We shall soon see that according to
the doctrine thus established, his discovery was not
a mere I( improvement," as the Court below pronounced it to be, but an original invention.
The learned counsel here produced two models,
one of Evans' Hopperboy, and one of Stouffers and
explained minutely the difference between their principles, or modus operandi, which consisted in this:
that in Stouffer's Bopperboy, the arms through a
square mortice in which the square upright post was
made to pass, were carried round by means of the
upright post pressing upon the sides of the square

1822.
Eram

v.
Eato.

CASES IN T-HE SUPREMIfE COURT

408
1822.

mortice, which renders it impossible for the arms to

E
Evans

rise and fall of themselves, as the meal under them
might increase or diminish'; while in the Hopperbov
of Evans the upright post is round, and it passes

V.
Eaton.

loosely through a round hole in the arms, which are
carried round by two pieces of timber of the proper
length, called leaders, which are inserted firmly into
the upper part of the post, and attached at their ends
by lines or small cords, to the corresponding ends of
the arms. These lines and leaders being put in
motion by the upright post, trail round the arms,
which at the same time play loosely bn the post,
and rise and fall of themselves, as the- meal under
them increases or diminishes in quantity. And to
make them press more lightly on the meal, and rise
and fall with more facility, as occasion may require,
a weight a little lighter than themselves, is attached
to them by a cord which passes over a pulley in the
upper part of the post. This weight nearly balances
the arms, and enables them to play up and down
much more easily and effectually.
The counsel also produced a drawing of Evans"
machine from the patent office, to show that his model was correct, and referred to the facts of the evidence in the record where the machine of Stouffer
is described, and its properties and defects explained.
He then proceeded to remark that the machine of
Evans was obviously constructed upon a new principle, that the modus operandi was entirely now.
The great object of both machines was to conduct
the meal into the bolting chest, and to stir, turn.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

dry, and coolit on its way thither. The essential
agents in this operation were the arms, which if they
remained stationary on the post, as they must of necessity do in-Stouffers machine, could not possibly
perform this operation to advantagQ They might
sink down on the tneal, as its quantity decreased,
but could not possibly rise when it was increased;
consequently, when new meal was placed on the
floor, the machine dust-ie stopt, and the arms lifted
up. Hence, its motion was unequal,, and its operation necessarily Vety .irregular and imperfect. It
also required a hand constantly, or, frequently, to be
present, and thus increased the expense.
Thus the condensation of the steam within the
cylinder itself, in Newcomen's steam engine, cooled
the cylinder improperly,- wasted steam, made more
fuel necessary, and rendered the operation of the machine imperfect, and too expensive. Here the siniilarity of imperfection is complete.
Evans removed the imperfection of the Hopperboy, not by merely adding to its -parts, but by introduding. a totally new principle and modus operandi.
He detached the arms from the upright Post entirely,
and carried them round by means of the leaders and
lines which have been described, leaving them to
play freely up and down on the post, so as to accomnmodate themselves'to the decreasing or increasing quantity of meal under them ; and their movement up and down, he facilitated, regulated, and rendered perfect, by means of the weight and pulley. The
modus operandi of the two machines, consisted in
the manner of carrying round the arms. This was
VoT. VII

51

409
1822.
v.
Eatwi.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

v
Evans

V.

Eato.

the principle of both machines. That of Evans was
new, and infinitely superior.
So Watt remedied the defects of Newcomen's
steam engine, by condensing the steam in a different vessel from the cylinder, and increased the effect by introducing the steam above the piston as
well as below it. This was a new principle ; and
here again the resemblance between the two cases is
complete.
It being then clear that Evans had made a new
invention as to the Hopperboy, and not merely what
the law on this subject calls an improvement, and the
cases showing that such. an invention is the subject
matter of a patent for an original invention; it follows that he might have obtained a patent for his
invention as an original invention, and not merely as
an improvement. This leads to the inquiry, for
what was this patent granted ? Was it for an original invention of his own, or for an improvement on
Stouffer's invention ?
We have the authority of this Court, in its former
decision in this case,2 for saying that when we inquire what was granted, it is proper in the first'place
to ascertain what the grantee wished to obtain, and
next, what the grantor bad the intention and the
power to give. What Evans wished to obtain, is
fully and most explicitly stated in the concluding sentence of his specification-' After describing, most fully and clearly, the structure, principle, and operation
of his Hopperboy, he concludes thus, "I claim as my
a 3 Mheat. Rep. 454.

b 1b. 468. note.

OF THE UNITED- STATES

invention, the peculiar properties which this ma1822.
chine possesses- viz. the
spreading,
turning,
and
-vI-,
n
EvaM~
V.
gathering the meal at one operation; and the rising
accommodate
to
motion,
the
by
arms
its
and.lowenng
itselfto any quantityof mealithasto operate on." Here
it is mahifest, that .he describes the effect intended
to be produced, which was the same in both machines; viz. the spreading, turning, and gathering
the meal at one.operation ; and his modus operandi,
for producing this effect, which was entirely new,
viz. the rising and lowering the arms~of the machine,
by its own motion, so as to accommodate 'itself to
the increasing or' diminishing quantity of meal. For
this modus o"pera'di, this property or principle, he
claims a patent.
It is equally clear that the grantor of the patent
intended to give what he thus asked for ;"that is a
patent for this new principle. This appears trom
the special act of Congress, on which the patent is
founded- and to which it refers; from the terms of the
patent itself; and from the specification which is expressly incorporated into it, as one of its constituent
parts.
As a further illustration of this position, the most
celebrated and important invention of modern times
may be referred to, an invention which was destined
to produce more important effects than any other single effort of the human mind. He alluded to the
steam boat ; that sublime, conception, which had conferred so much glory on its author and his country.
What was a steam boat, but a new combination of
these well known machines, a boat, a steam engine,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i8e2.
E

V.

Eaton.

and a flutter wheel, machines most familiar' to all
who knew any thing of such subjects. But they
were so combined as to produce a new and most
surprising effect, by a new modus operandi. This
method consisted in attaching a steam engine and
two flutter wheels to a boat of proper dimensions
and strength, and arranging them in such a manner,
that the flutter wheels were set in. motion by the
steam engine, and struck against th water, instead
of being struck by it, as they are in a common saw
mill. Thus striking against the water, they act as oars,
or rather as paddles, and propel the boat forward.
Now, what was there new in this machine? Not the
instruments, but the manner of combining them, and
their manner of operating produced by this combination ; and yet no one has denied to the author of
this beautiful and sublime idea the merit of an
original invention, or called in question his patent,
as a patent for an original invention. He, however, merely combined old machines, changing their
forms and proportions so as to suit his'new purpose.
Evans not only combined old machines, but added
new and essential parts, and by means of both produced a modus operandi altogether new, and highly
useful. Upon what ground, then, can it be said that
he is not an original inventor, when Watt was solemnly adjudged, and Fulton unanimously allowed to
be so ?
I therefore contend, that Evans was an original
inventor, and not an improver merely ; and that his
patent is for ant original invention, and not for an
improvement. If so, the decision of the Circuit

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Courtin these two cases" must be reversed, and the
patent of my client is established.
But if it be not a p-aent for an original invention i
below
but merely for an improvement, the decision
was erroneous, in declaring that the specification is
defective. This defect consists, according to the
decision below, in the omission to state particularly
in what the improvement consists, and to distinguish
it in terms from the pre-existent machine.
Here a very familiar maxim is applicable: quod
neminer ad vana aut ad imvossibilia lex cogit. The
law requires nobody to do that which would be useless if done, or it ig impossible to do. And cui bono
make this discrimination ; how can it be made; and
by what provision of the law is it required? On the
answer to these three questions the case must depend. If it can be shown that such a discrimination
would be useless if made, or is impracticable, and
-that it is not expressly and positively required by the
act of Congress, it will follow that the judgment
below must be reversed.
And (1.) cui bone make the discrimination ? What
good would it, or could it do, to any body ? In order to answer these questions, we must revert again
to the object and uses of the specification.
The patent law confers a benefit on the discoverer
of any artful invention, which consists in a monopoly
of his invention for a limited time. The consideration which it ,requires him to pay for this benefit, is
to put the public in possession of his invention: so
as to enable all to use it, after his monopoly shaH
a The present case, and the subsequent case of Evans v,
He'dk.

41S
1822.

V.

" CASES IN THE SUPREME .COURT

182.
Evans

v.

Eaton.

expire; and all to avoid involving themselves in-con.,
troversies'and difficulties, bhy inadvertently infringing
it-while it continues. Hence the necessity of a specification ; and here we find its uses, its eXtent, and
its limitations. The. British statute said nothing of
a specifilcation ; but it ,was introduced by the executive government, as .a condition of every patent,. and
its character, objects, and properties have been accurately settled-by.judicial decisions inEngland. Fromthose decisions.-iwas, borrowed, by our act of Congress, and incorporated into 'its positive. enactments.
In both systems, its, objects and uses,. and,.consequently, its nature and properties, are the same. Its
object and all is to enable .the .public to enjoy the
invention beneficially and fully, after the monopoly.
shall have expired, and to avoid interference with its
while it shall continue. Now what is necessary for.
attaining this object ? certainly nothing more than
this, that the invention should be so described-in the
specification, by writing, and where -the nature of
the subject will permit, by drawings and models, a
that any one competently skilled in the art or science
to which it relates, may be enabled to understand,
make, and use it. This is -what the English decisions have established as the necessary *properties of
the specification; and what our statute expressly,
and in terms, requires.
Now it is obvious, that in the case of an improvement the principle is exactly the same as in that of
an original inventioin. The invention, that is, the
thing in its improved state, must be accurately and
fully described ; by writing always, and by drawings and models where the nature of the case will

OF THE-UNITED STATES.

permit. When this is done, it is manifest that any
one who can understand the improved thing, so as to
make and use it, may, in.every possible case, distinguish the improvement from any and every original
or antecedent thing of the same sort. Take these
two Hopperboys as an example, and inspect the
models which I hold in my hands. Cannot any man,
who has sufficient -mechanical skill to make a Hopperboy, and understand its use, see at one glance in
what these two machines differ from each other?
Does not the Court see it? Cannot any such mechanic, therefore, make and use the Hlopperboy of
Stouffer, if he should think proper, and avoid all interference with the improvement of Evans ? It cannot be doubted that he may. And so may a person
sufficiently skilled in the art or science to which an
improvement relates, in every possible case. When
he has the improvement, or the improved thing sufficiently described, as the Hopperboy of Evans is
admitted to be, and is informed of any pre-existing
machine, or thing of the same general nature, which
he wishes to make, sell, or use, he can look at that
thing, compare it with the improved machine, or
with the description, drawings and models in the patent office; see the difference, and make and use the
original or old one, without the least danger of interfering with the impiovement. Where, then, is the
use of describing the original, or old invention, in
the specification of the improvement; and of discriminating, in terms, between them ? It is manifest
that such a description would be perfectly useless,
and vain ; and 2zerninem ad vana lex cogit.

415
1822.

V.
Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

416
1822.
En
T

Eaton.

2. But admitting that it might be of some use, would
itbe possible ? This is the next, head of inquiry:
and I contend that it would not.
And here let it be remembered, that
this doctrine
of discrimination is not confined to such inventions
as are express or avowed improvements, on particular inventions. It extends uecessarily to all inven,
tions which improve any thing that existed before.
In the present case there happened, so far at least us
is now krlown, to be but one Hopperboy, that of
Stouffer, in ue before Evans'. But suppose there
had been twenty, of as many different kinds? would
they not all have been original with respect to Evans's,
or antecedent to it ? Undoubtedly : and every man,
notwithstanding Evans' patent, would have ha d.
1a
right to use them all; or any of them. What reason
or principle could require the'description of one in
the specificationt of Evans, which would not equally
apply to all? There certainly is none. Let us take
the example of a patent for an 'improved stove, for
increasing the heat,. or for any other object. How
many millions of stoves, of what an endless-variety of
constructions, are used in the world. Must the patentee of this improved stove, or of this improvement
on stoves, describe them all in his specification, and
point out in terms the difference between each of
them, and his invention ? It is manifest that he most,
according to the doctrine of the Circuit Court': and
it is equally manifest, that he could not possibly do
it. His specification would constitute a library of
itself, which no man would or could read, and which
the patent office could hardly contain. So also ini-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

proved chimneys, improved carriages, and all the multitude of other improvements, real or imaginary, on
things in general use, for which patents are obtained,
and
having pre-existent things of the same nature,
used for the same general purpose, must be described
in each specification ; which, if it were possible to
write it, as it would very seldom be. would be far
too voluminous to be understood or read.
Thus it is manifest; that the discrimination contended for, would be impossible, as well as useless,
in relation to improvements on unpatented machines.
Where, indeed, a machine is already patented, it is
very easy to describb it in the specification of the improvement, and point out all the particulars in which
they differ from each other. The original specification is in the patent office, and may be referred to:
the drawings and model are there, and may be seen.
Here. the rule requiring a discrimination" in terms
between .the original invention' and the improvement, would not-,be unreasonable; and it might be
useful; by tending to prevent disputes between the
.different patentees. The.mistake of which we complain, .has probably arisen from -not discriminating
between improvements on patented and unpatented
inventions. In the latter, the discrimination is manifestly. impossible, as well as useless. In the former,
it would be easy, and might be of some use. It might
be proper to-require it in one case, whether the law
positively enjoins it or not. To require it in the
other, would. be to makq the law require what is both
useless.and impossible. This can never be done by
the Construction- merely of a statute, which must
VOL. VII.

53

Al7
1822.
Evans

V.

Eaton.

CASES IN THE'SUPREME COURT

me2. always be reasonable. But it may be Said that the
%Evans Wstatute positively enjoins it. If so, we must submit,
V.
Whei the legislature has clearly expressed its will,
Eaton.
the Court have no duty, but to obey. This brings us
to the question, what has the legislature enjoined on
this subject ?
3. All that can be supposed to relate, to it is contained in the 2d and 3drsections. The second sp9aks
of improvements; the third of specifications. It
points out the object of the specification, and directs
what shall be done -for its attainment. The object
is to put the public in complete possession*of the invention, whether an improvement or an original discovery ; so that interference with it may be avoided
while the patent continues, and its. benefits may be
fully enjoyed by the public, after the patent expires.
To this end it enjoins that the applicant for a patent
" shall deliver a written description of his invention,
and of the manner of using, or process of compounding the same; in such full, clear, and exact terms,
as to distinguish the same from 'all other things before
known; and to enable any person skilled in the art or
science of which it is a branch, or with which it is
most nearly connected, to make, compound, and use
the same.?' This is the directory part. Thl thing
is to be described " so as to distinguish it Crom all
other things before known." How distinguish it ?
By describing all the things before known, and vointing out in terms in what it differs from them all ?
Certainly'not; but by giving a description of it so
complete and accurate, as " to enable any person
skilled in the art, &c. to make, compound, and use

OF THR UNITED STATES.

the same." Is the discrimination contended for,
but not mentioned in the statute, necessary
for this
•
purpose ? By no means. Any person skilled in the art
or- science; in order to make, compound, and use the
new "invention, has .but to- look to the description of
the invention itself. He need not know how nearly
it resembles, or how widely it differs,: from any other
thing before knowir. With these he has no concern.
And if on the'other hand, he wishes to use nothing
before used and known, and to avoid interfering with
the patented invention, or improvement, ,hb has only
to compare the thing whiChhe so wishes to make or
use, with the description of the patented invention,
or improvement contained in the specification; and
he will immiediately see- wherein they differ, and be
enabled-to aioid the latter, while he uses the former.
. -This sectiopi (the -d) furtherdirects, with a view
to the -same objects; that the applicant, the inventor,
"in case of any machine," shall -" fully explain the
principle, and the several modes in which he has
contemplated the application of that principle or.
character, by -which it may be distinguished from
other inventions." :Here, as in the rest of the section, nothing is said about- improvements, as distinguished from original discoveries. They are all
treated equally as "inventions," and are placed precisely on the same ground. They are all to be so
described, as that they may be distinguished in their
principles, and modus operandi, as well as in their
construction and composition, from other inventions:
and this is to be effected by means, not of a formal
discrimination, in terms, between them, and any

419
182.
Evans

V.
Eaton.

,$20
1822.

"
Evans
V.
Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

other thing or- things of the same general nature;
but of, a full and accurate verbal description, aided
by drawings, modeli, and specimens; where the
'matter is of such a nature as to admit their use. Iii
all this, nothing is said or hinted about "improvements," is contra-distinguished from "original discoveries." All are treated alike as "inventions,"
and the same means of enabling all concerned, to
distinguish them from things before used, or known,
are pi'ovided in relation to both.
In fact, what is an" improvement," but a new invention ? Every thing that is made better is im.
proved ; and every thing that makes another thing
better, or does it in a -better'way, is an improvement.
If it be new, it is an invention so far as it goes.
The greater the improvement, the greater is the invention: and any 'improvement differs from any
other, or from an original discovery, if there be any
such thing, not in nature but in degree. They may
-be greater- .inventions oi less;' more or less ingenious; or more or less useful; but as far as they are,
so they are all ihventions , and are treated precisely
alike by this portion of the patent law; which, I
again repeat, makes no mention, and gives no hint
of a discrimination, in ihe specification of an improvement, between the improvement, or the thing
as improved, and the original thing on which the
improvement is made. Treating them all alike as
," inventions-" it requires, with respect to all, that
they shall be 'so described as clearly to distinguish
them, that is, as to enable all concerned to distinguish them from all other things of the ,same na-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ture, before in use or known. To construe the statute, so as to make it require a description not only
of the new invention, but of all things of the same
general nature before known, and a discrimination in
terms between them, would be as unreasonable in
the case of an improvement, as of an original discovery, and would be perfectly unreasonable in
either. It would make the statute do that which
its terms do-not indicate, and which the law can
never be presumed to intend. It would make it require what it is not only impossible in a great variety of cases to do, but what, if done, would in
every case be 'wholly useless and vain. This it cannot be so construed as to require: for neminem ad
vana aut -a impossibilialex cogit.
The counsel then adverted to the 2d section, where
it was- supposed, he said, that something might be

found to support this -doctrine of discrimination.
That section spoke particularly of improvements,
as to which the third -was wholly silent. It said
nothing whatever of the specification, its objects or
motive. It-made two provisions, both useful as declarations of t'he lawi to -put persons on their guard
and prevent mistakes, .hut both undoubtedly law,
without any-such declaration. The first was, that
the discoverer and patentee of an improvement in any
thing before pdtented, shbold not be entitled to make,
use, or vbnd the origina'; northb inventor and patentee of the origianal to makni use, or vend thd.improvement. Here -agam -they-were both considered as -inventors, and both put on the same footing. It 'was
declared, for general information, and to prevent

1822.

Evan.v.

42

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

doubts and mistakes, that one should not be entitled
to the invention of 'the other: but nothing was said
V. about the manner of distinguishing these inventions
Eaton. one from the other. That was left to
the third section ; where it was done without the least mention
or hint of the formal discrimination, in-terms, contended for in the judgment below. It was manifest
that this discrimination could derive no countenance
from this branch of the second section. It obviously could -derive none from the other branqh, which
merely, for giving information to the public, and preventing mistakes, declared "that simply changing
the form or proportions of any machine, or composition of matter, in any degree, shall not be deemed
a discovery."' This merely amounts to saying, what
would clearly have been the construction of law without any such declaration, that to constitute a patentable discovery, either original or by improvement, there
must be a new principle or modus operandi, and not
merely a change of form orproportion. If the change
of form or proportion should be such as to produce
a new principle or modus operandz,then it would be
a discovery or invention, whether it amounts to an
original or'an improvement only : and here again improvements were treated as inventions, equally with
original discoveries; the distinction between them
being not in nature, but merely in degree.
But the point under consideration has been expressly settled, by the former decision in this case:
the same objection, for want of this discrimination,
was made in the court below, on the first trial ; and
the same doctrine on the subject expressly laid down
1822

OF THE UNITED STATES.

423

by the Circuit Court: this doctrine formed one of
the giounds of objection,
distinctly stated in the
•
"
argument of the former case in this Court, and was
this part
distinctly noticed by the Court: and with
of the opinion below, and th6lbjection to it, distinctly in view, this Court decided this.patent on this same
specification to be valid, notwithstanding its want of
a discrimination in terms between the improvement
and the original invention; which was an express
decision on this point, in favour of the plaintiff in
error. He referred to various parts of the report of
the former case of Evans v. Eaton,a to support these
positons; remarking, that although the Court certainly was not bound absolutely by its- own decisions, and ought to overrule them, when satisfied of
their incorrectness; yet they were the great landmarks of the law, and ought not to be overturned or
shaken, without the strongest and clearest reasons.
The learned counsel also cited the authorities
cited in the' margin, as to- the objection fo the
charge of the Court beloW, upon the grgund that
it had invaded the proper province of the jury, in respect to the sufficiency of the.specification, and to the
nature of the patentee's invention, as an improvew.ent
oran original discovery.b

1822.
E"
Evans

V.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the .xJa,.a&0,.
Court.
This is. the same case which was formerly before
a 3 Wheat. Rep: 454.
b 12 H. ,Bl. 478. 484. 497.
lis.481. j Mason, 189. 191.

8 T. R. 99. 101. 103.

I Gal-

424,
1822.

0Evans
VS.

Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

this Court, and is reported in 3 Wheat. Rep. 464.
and by a reference to that report, the form of the
patent, the nature of the action, and the subsequent
proceedings, will fully appear. The cause
now
comes before us upon a writ of error to the judgment of the Circuit Court, rendered ripon the new
trial, had in pursuance of the mandate of this
Court.
Upon the new trial several exceptions were taken

by the counsel for the plaintiff. The first was to the
admission of a- Mr. Frederick, as a witness for tho
defendant. -It is to be observed, that the sole connam
the
dicament with
the party vill trovrsy between the parties at the new trial was,
not rn or a
p
s
Witnep
s incom- whether the plaintiff was entitled to recover for an
the
on
petent
tere.
in- alleged breach of his patent by the defendant in
in the question,
or a liability to
asimilaraction,
or standing in

using the improved Hopperboy. Frederick, in his
examination on -the voir dire, denied that he had any
interest in the cause, or that he wa3 bound to contribute to the expenses of it. " He said he had not a
Hopperboy in his mill at present, it being then in
Court; that it was ii his mill about three weeks
ago, when he gave it to a person to bring down to
Philadelphia; and that his Hopperboy spreads and
turns the meal, cools it some, dries it, .and gathers it
to the bolting chest. Upon this evidence the plaintiff's counsel contended that Frederick was not a
competent witness, but the objection was-overruled
by the Court. It.does not appear from this examination whether the Hopperboy used by Frederick
was that improved by the plaintiff, or not ; but assuming it was, we are of opinion that the witness was

OF THE UNITED'STAT-S.

rightly admitted. It is perfectly, -clear, that a person having an9 interest only in the question, and not
in the event of the stit, is a competent witness ; and
in general the h-ability' of 'a witness to a like action,
or his standing in the same predicament with the
party-sued, if the verdict'cannot be given in evidence
for or against him, -isan interest in the question, and
does not exclude him. If nothing had been in controversy in this case, as to the validity of the patent
itselt, and the general issue only had beei pleaded, the
present-objection would have fallen within the general rule. But the~special notice in this case asserts
-matter,- which if true, and found specially by the
jury, might authorize the Court to adjudge the patent void, and it is supposed that this constitutes-such
an interest in Frederick in the event of the cause,
that he is thereby rendered incompetent. But in
this respect, Frederick stands in the same situation
as every other person in the community. If the patent is declared void, the invention may be used by
the whole community, and all persong may be said
to have an interest in making it public property. But
this results from a general principle of law, that a
party can take nothing by a void patent ; and so far
as such an interest goes, we think it is to the credit
and not to the competency of the witness. It is
clear that the verdict in this case, if given for.Evans,
would not be evidence in a suit against Frederick,
but Frederick would be entitled to contest every
step in the cause, in the same manner as if no
such suit had existed. Non constat, that Frederick
himself will ever be sued by the plaintiff, or that if
VOL. VII.

54

425
182.
Evans

V.
Eaton.,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sued, any recovery can be had against him, even if'
the plaintiff's patent should not be avoided in this
suit. It therefore rests in remote contingencies,
whether Frederick will, under any circumstances,

1822.
E

V.
Eaton.

have an interest in the event of this suit, and the law
adjudges the party incompetent only when he has
a certain, and not a contingent interest. It has been
the inclination of Courts of law in modern times,
generally, to lean against exceptions to -testimony. This is a case which may be considered somewhat anonoalous ; and we think it safest to admit
The
practice
the testimony, leaving its credibility to thejury.
of the State
Another exception was, to the refusal of the
Courts cannot
sanction
the
adm sion of Court to allow a deposition to be read by the plaindepositions in
the cournited tiff, whih had been taken according to a prevaleut
States, which
It is not pretended
to practice of the State Courts.
are not takeq
according
the laws of the that the deposition was admissible according to the
United States%
o.y therules positive rules of law, or the rules of the Circuit
Court'; and it is fiot now produced, so that we can
see what were the circumstances under which it was
taken. No practice, however convenient, can give
validity to depositions which "ire. not taken according to law, or the rules of the Circuit Court, unless
the parties expressly waive the objection or, by previous consent, agree to have them taken and made
evidence. This objection, therefore, may at once
Inconvenient be dismissed.
and uninecessaThe principal arguments, however, at the h-ir have
,pactich
of
spreading the
judge's charge

inexten

upon

thercord.

been urged against the charge given by the Circuit
Court in summing up the cause to the jury. The
charge is spread inextenso upon the record, a practice which is unnecessary and inconvenient, and
may give rise to minute criticisms and observations

OF THE UNITED

TATES.

427

upon points incidentally, introduced, for purposes of
arygument or illustration, and by no means essential

182.

In causes bf this na-

r.

to the merits of the cause.

ture we thinkthe substance only of the charge is
to be examined; and if it appears, upon the whole,
that the law was justly expounded to the jury,
general expressions, which may need and would
receive qualification, if they were the direct point
in Judgment, are to le understood in such restricted
sense.
It has been -already stated, that the whole controversy at the trial 'turned upon the use of the plaintiff's Hopperboy ; and no other of the inventions, included in 'his patent, was asserted or supposed to be
pirated by the defendant.
The plaintiff, with a view to tfie maintenance
of his suit, contended, that his patent, so far as
respected the Hopperboy, had a double aspect.
1. That it was to be as a patent for the whole of the
improved Hopperboy, that is, of the whole machine
as his own invention. 2. That if not susceptible of
this construction, it was for an improvement upon
the Hopperboy, and he was entitled to recover
against the defendant for using his improvement.
The defendant admitted that he used the improved
Iopperboy, and put his defence upon two grounds:
1. That if the patent was for the whole machine, i. e.
the improved Hopperboy, the plaintiff was not the
inventor of the improved Hopperboy so patented;
2. That if the patent was for an improvement only
upon the Hopperboy, the specification did not describe, the nature and extent of the improvement:

E~toa.

428
1822.
Evans
E.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and if it did, still the patent comprehended the
whole machine, and was broader than the invention.
To the examination of these points, and summing
ub the evidence, the attention of the Circuit Court
was exclusively directed ; and the question is, wiether the charge, in respect to the matters of law
involved in these points, was erroneous to the injury of the plaintiff.
We will consider the points, in the same order
in which they were reviewed by the Circuit Court.
Was the patent of the plaintiff, so far as respects his
improved Hopperboy, a patent for the whole machine as his own invention ? It is not disptited that
the specification does contain a good and sufficient
description of the improved Hopperboy, and of th'e
manner of constructing it; and if there had been
any dispute on this subject, it would have been matter of fact for the jury, and not of law for the decision of the Court. The plaintiff, in his specification, after describing his 1-opperboy, its structure,
and use, sums up his invention as follows: "I
claim as my invention, the peculiar properties or
principles which this machine possesses, in the
spreading, turning, and gathering the meal at one
operation, and the rising and lowering of its arms
by its motion, to accommodate itself to any quantity
of meal it has to operate upon." From this manner of stating his invention, without any other qualification, it is apparent that it is just such a claim
as would be made use of by the plaintiff, if the
whole machine was substantially in its structure
and combinations new. The plaintiff does not state

OF THE UNITED STATES.

429

it to be a specific improvement upon an existing ma-

1822.

chine, confining his claim to that improvement, but
as an invention substantially original. In short, he
claims the machine as substantially new in its properties and principles, that is to say, in the mzodus
operandi. If this be true, and this has been the construction strongly and earnestly pressed upon this
Court by the plaintiff's counsel, in the argument at
the present term, what are the legal principles that
flow from this doctrine ? The Patent Act of the 21st
of February, 1793, ch. I I. upon which the validity
ofour patents generally depends, authorizes a pateutto
the inventor, *for his invention or improvement in any
new and useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter not known or used before the application. It also gives to any inventor of an improvement in the principle of any machine, or in the
process of any composition of matter which has been
patented, an exclusive right to a patent for his improvement ; but he i: not to be at liberty to use the
original discovery, nor is the fiirst inventor at liberty
to use the improvement. It also declares that simply changing the form or the proportion of any machine or composition of matter, in any degree, shall
not be deemed a discovery. It farther provides, that
on any trial for a violation of the patent, the party
may give in evidence, having given, due notice thereof, any special matter tending. to prove that the
plaintiff's specification does not contain the whole
truth relative to his discovery, or contains more than
is necessary to produce the effect, (where the addition or concealment shall appear to have breen to

Emas
I*

430

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR''

1822.
Evans
a.

Eaton.

deceive the public,) or that the thing secured by the
patent was not originally discovered by the patentee,
but had been in use, or had been described in some
public work anterior to the.supposed discovery of
-the patentee, or that ht had surreptitiously obtained
a person's invention ; and provides that in either of
these cases judgment shall be rendered for the
plaintiff, with costs, nd the patent'shall be declared
void. It farther require6, that every inventor, before
he can receive a'patent, shall swear or affirm to the
truth of his invention," and shall deliver a written
description of his invenxion, and of the manner of
using,'or-process of compounding the same, in such
full, clear, dnd exact terms, as to distinguish the same
from all things before known, and to enable any
person. skilled in the art or science, of which it -is
a brgnch, or with which it is -most nearly connected,
to make., compound, and use the same; and in the case
of any machine, he shall fully explain the several
modes in which he has contemplated the applieation
of the principle, or characte'r by which it inay bo
distinguished from other inventions.))

btiwetn

From this enumeration -of the provisions of the

tent for the
wholemachine,
and for an a.
Plaintliffenot e.Drvemten:
titled astothe
a patent,
in-

act, it is clear that the-party cannot entitle himself
to~a patent tor more than his own inventiofi ; and if

venor of the

use, as his invention, he is not entitled to recover,
for his patent is broader'than -his ivention. If, there-

between a pa.

ppy

his patent includes things-before known, or before in

fore, the patent be for the whole of'a machine, the
party, can maintain a title to it only by establishing
that it is substantially new -in its structure and mode
of operation. If the same combinations existed he-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

fore in machines of the same nature, up to a certain
point, and the party's invention consists in adding
some new machinery, or some improved mode of operation, to the old, the patent should be limited tosuch
improvement, for if it includes the whole machinery,
it includes more than his invention, and the refore
cannot be supported. This is the view of the law
on this point, which was taken by the Circuit Court.
That Court went into a full examination of the testimony, and also of the structure of Evans' Hopperboy, and Stouffer's Hopperboy, and left it.to the
jury to decide, whether, up to a certain loint, the two
machines -were or were not the same in principle.
If they were the same in principle, and merely differed in form and proportion, then it was declared
that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover; or, to
use the language of the Court, if the jury were of
opinion that the plaintiff was not the inventor of the
Hopperboy, he was not entitled to recQver, unless
his was a case excepted from the general operation
of the act. We perceive no reason to be dissatisfied
with this part of the charge ; it left the fact open for
the jury, and instructed them correctly as to the law.
Ano the verdict of the jury negitived the right of
the plaintiff, as the inventor of the whole machine.
The next inquiry before the Circuit Court was,

182-.
Evuns

v.
Rto,.

whether the plaintiff's case was excepted from the ce rut O,.
general operation of the act. Upon that it is unne- Fe.rera ibe

cessary to say more than that the point was expressly
decided by this Court in the negative, upon the former
writ of error. And we think the opinion of this
Court, delivered on that occasion, is correctly' tinder-

"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

stood and expounded by the Circuit Court. It could
Snever
have been intended by this Court to declare,
.Evas in direct opposition to the very terms-of the patent
Eaton.
act, that a party was entitled .to recover, although lie
should be proved not to have -been the inventor of
the machine patented ; or that he should be entitled'
to recover, notwithstanding the machine patented
was in use prior to his alleged discovery. There is
undoubtedly a' slight error in drawying up the judgment of the Court upon the former writ of error;
but it is immediately corrected by an attentive perusal of the opinion itself. And we do not think that
it can. be better stated. or explained than in the manner in Wihich the Circuit Court -has expounded it.
We are then. led to the examiniation of the other
,point of view in which the plaintiff's counsel have
attempted to maintain this patent. 'That is, by considering it, not as a patent for the whole of the ma-.
chine or improved Hopperboy, but, as, an improvement of the Hopperboy. Considered under this aspect, the point 'presents itself which was urged by
the defendant's counsel, vi. that if it be a patent -for
an improvement, it is void, because the nature and
extent of the improvement is not stated in the specification. The Circuit Court went into an elaborate
examination of the. law applicable to this point,, and
into a'construction of the'terms of the patent itself,
and came to the ponclusion that no distinct improvemeet was specified in the patent ; that such specification was necessary in'a patent.for tin improvement,
and that for this defect, the plaintiff was not entitled
to recover, supposing his patent to be for an improve1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

433

.ient only of an.existing machine. It may bejustly
1822.
doubted, whether this point at all arises in the cause; for*.the very terms of the patent, as they have heen
already, considered, and as they have been construed
t
at the bar, by the plaintiff's counsel, at the present
•argument, seem almost conclusively to establish, that
the patent is for the.wlole machine, that is, for the
whole of the improved flopperboy, and not for a
mere. improvement upon the old' Hopperlioy. But,
-waiving this point, can the doctrine asserted at the
'bar be. maintained, -that no specitication of 'an improvement is necessaky in the patent; and that it is
sufficient if' it be made- -outiind shown at the trial,
or' may be establighed by comparing the machine
specified in the patent with former machines in use?
That there is Ro specification of. any distinct im.provement in the present patent, is not denied ; that
the patent is good without -it, is the slubject of in.
quiry. Let this be decided by reference to the patent act.
The third -section of. the patent act requires, as
has been~already stated, that the party " shall deliver a written description of his invention, in such
full, clear, and exact terms, as to distinguish the same
from all other things before known, and to enable
any person skilled in the art' or science, &c. c.
to make, compound, and use the same. The
specification, then, has two ojects; one is to mnake
known the manner of constructing the machine
(if the invention is of a machinq) so as-to enable artizans to make and use it, and thus to give the publi
the full benefit of the discbvery after the expiratioa
VQT,

V11,

5

434

CASES IN JTE SUPREME COURT

of the patent. It i; not pretended that the plaitifls
Eans
patent is not in this respect sufficiently exact and
V. .minute in the description. But whether it be so or
Eaton.
not, is not material to the present inquiry. The other
object of the specification is, to put the public in possession of what the party claims as his own invention, so as to ascertain if he claim anything that is in
common use, or is already known, and toguard against
prejudice or injury from the use of an invention
which the party may otherwise innocently suppose
not to be patented. It is, therefore, for the purpose
of warning an innocent purchaser or other peison
using a machine, of his infringement of the patent ;
and at the same time of taking from the inventor the
means of practising upon the credulity or the fears of
other persons, by pretending that his invention is
more than what it really is, or different from its ostensible objects, that the patentee is required to distinguish his invention in his specification. Nothing
can be more direct than the very words of .the act.
The specification must describe the invention "in
such full, clear, and distinct terms, as to distinguish
the same ftom all other things before known." How
can that be a sufficient specification of an improvement in a machine, which does not distinguish what
the improvement is, nor state in what it consists, nor
how far the invention extends? Which describes the
machine fully and accurately, as a whole, mixing
up the new and old, but does not in the slightest degree explain what is the nature or limit of the improvement which the party claims as his own ? It
seems to us perfectly clear that such a specification
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is indispensable. We do not say that the party is
bound to describe the old machine; but we are of
opinion that he ought to describe what his own improvement is, and to limit his patent to such improvement. For another purpose, indeed, with the view
of enabling artizans to construct the machine, it may
become necessary.for him to state so much of the old
machine as will make his specification of the structure intelligible. But the law is sufficieutly complied
with in relation to the other point, by distinguishing,
in full, clear, and exact terms, the nature and extent
of his improvement only.
We do not consider that the opinion of the Circuit Court differs, in any material respect, from this
exposition of the patent act on this point; and if the
plaintiff's patent is to be considered as a patent for
an improvement upon an existing Hopperboy, it is
defective in not specifying that improvement, and
thereforethe plaintiff ought not to recover.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the majority
of the Court, that thejudgment of the Circuit Court
ought to be affirmed with costs.
Mr' Justice LIVINGSTON dissented. At this late
period, when the patentee is in his grave, and his
patent has expired a natural death, we are called on
to say, whether his patent ever had a legal existence,
and it may seem not very important to the representatives of the patentee what may be the decision of
this Court. But understanding that many other actions are pending for a violation of this part of the
patent right, and that infractions have taken place for
which actions may yet be commenced, and believing

435
1822.
Evas

V.
Eatou.

486
1822.
""very
Evans

v.
Raten.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that the decision we are about to make will hawv a
extensive, if not a disasirous bearing on many other patents for improvements, and will in fact
amountto a repeal of many of them, I have, though
proper to assign my reasons for dissenting from the
opinion just delivered.
In doing this, my remarks will be confincd principally to the charge of the Court, so far as it applies
to the claim of Evans for an improvement on a Flopperboy.
I was much struck with the argument of the plain,
liffWs counsel in favour of the patent being for an original invention, and not for an improvement; nor
%woutd it in my opinion be a forced construction, to
regard it as a patent for a combination of machines to
produce .certain results, and not for any of the rna'chines, hor the different parts of which the whole is
,composed.
But considering it as a patent for an improvement
oM a Hopperboy, in which light it had been'regarded)
as well by the Circuit as by this Court, when this
'cause was here before, I proceed to examine the
tharge, so far as it relates to this part of the subjedt.
The Court, after stating in what patticulars the
plaintiff's counsel contended. that his improvement
,consists, which is unnecessary to repeat here, pro,ceedsThe 'laintiff has laid before you strong 'evidence
his Hopyperboy is a more useful machine
prove'that
'to
Than -be dne Whieh is alleged 'to have been previously discovered and in 'use. If, then, you are satisfied of this fact the ,point of law which -has been

OF THE UNITED STATES.

raised by the defendant's counsel remains to be considered, which is, that the plaintiffs patent for an improvement is void because the nature and extent of his
specificatton.
improvement is not statedin the
"The patent is for an improved Hopperboy, as
described in the specification, which is referred to
and made part of the patent. How does the specification express in what his improvement consists ?
It states all and each of the parts of the entire machine, its-use and mode of operating; and claims, as
his invention, the peculiar properties or principles of
the machine, viz. the spreading, turning, and gathering the meal, and the raising and lowering of its arms
by its motion, to accommodate itself to the meal under it. But does this description designate the improvement, or in what it consists ? Where shall we
find the or ginal.Hopperboy described, either as to
its construction, operation, or use, or by reference to
any thing by which a knowledge of it may be obtained ? Where are the improvements on such originalsstated ? The undoubted truth is, that the specification communicates no information whatever
upon any of these points." After some farther reasoning on the subject, and showing that the plaintifPs
case is not excepted from.the general rule of law,
-bythe act which was passed for his relief, the Court
declares that for this imperfection or omission in the
specification, the" plaintiff is not entitled to recover
for an alleged infringement of his patent for the
-improvement on the Hopperboy.11 This was equivalent to saying that for this defect in the specification,
-the patent for the improved Hopperboy was void, and,

437
1822.

a

438
1822.
Evans

Eat,,n.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of course, that no action at all, whatever might be the
state of the evidence, could be maintained for the use
of it. It left nothing, as it regarded the improved
Hopperboy, for the jury to decide. Such is the
charge, and it is delivered in terms too plain to be
misunderstood.
The objections to it are now to be considered.
In doing this it will be shown,
1st. That the specification is not defective, and
that although it does not discriminate in what particulars the machine in question does differ from other
Hopperboys in use, yet, if from the whole of the description taken together, the machine is specified so
minutely, and so accurately, as to be directly and
easily distinguished from all other Hopperboys antecedently known, every thing has been done which
the law requires, and the patent is good.
2d. That if the specification be vicious in the
points mentioned, the patent ought not to be considered as absolutely void ; but it is enough, and the
public interest is sufficiently guarded, if care be taken that it shall not be extended to create a monopoly in any other machine, which may or may not be
mentioned in the patent, which was *previously
known or in use. And,
3d. That if a patent must be set aside for such defectin the specification, it should be left to thej ury, on
the evidence before them, to decide whether the improvement patented be not set forth with all necessary
precision.
1. I have said the specification is not defective.
In determining this question, it would seem but

OF THE UNITED STATES.

natural and just that the validity of a patent granted
under a particular act of Congress, should be tested
of our
by the terms there used, and by the decisions
of authority, and that
own Courts, so far as they are
we should be extremely cautious in adopting the
rules which have been introduced into other countries,
and under laws not in every respect like our own,
however respectable the tribunals may be which may
have prescribed those rules ; and this the more especially, as most of the decisions in England, which
are generally cited, and seem to have been implicitly
followed in this country, are of . date long subsequent to the revolution, and many of them posterior
to .the passage of the patent laws in this country, and
which could not therefore have been in the contemplation of Congress at the time. Besides, there is
somewhat of hardship in constantly applying to a patentee in this country, adjudications made on a British act of Parliament very unlike our own, and with
which decisions he has no means of becominff acquainted until long after a knowledge of them can
be of any service. Already have we extended to patents for improvements on old machines, several
recent decisions in England, although it was long
doubted in that country, and as late as the year 1776,
whether by the act of the 21 James I. e 3. there could
be a patent for an addition only. When the English
Courts decided in favour of such patents, they also
made rules for their construction, as cases arose; there
being no direct provisions in the statute on the subject. As we have provided by law, not only for the
security of inventions entirely new, but also for the

1812

.

440

CASES IN THE-SUPREME COURT

182t2

Evans

V.

Eaton.

protection of those who may discover any new and
useful improvement on any art, machine, &c. .not
known or used before, and have prescribed the terms
on which patents under it may be obtained, it would
seem, if all those terms are complied with, and theinvention be really new and useful, that no Court can
have a right to add any other terms, or to .require
of a patentee any thing more than what the law has
enjoined on him. Let us now try the patent before us
by this rule:--The act of the21st February, 1793, c. 11.
after stating in what cases letters patent for inventions
may issue, and how they are to be obtained, requires,
inter alia,that the inventor, before he receives his patent, shall take a certain oath, and shall deliver a written description of his invention, and of the manner of
using the same, in such full, clear, and exact terms,
as to distinguish the samefrom -allother things before
known, and to enable any person skilled in the art or
science of which it is a branch, or with which it is most
nearly connected, to make and use the same. And in
the case of a machine, he shall fully explain the
principle, and the several modes in which he has contemplated the application of that principle, or character by which it may be distinguished frbm other inventions ; and he is to accompany the whole with
drawings and written references, where the nature of
the case admits of it ; and a model of his machine, if
required by the Secretary of State, is also to be delivered.
In the present case, the patent is for an improved
Hopperboy; a particular description of which, and
its uses, will be found in 3 Wheat. Bep. 466. It is

441

OF PHE UNITED STATES.

not pretended that this machine, if made in conformity with the dekcription giveirby Mr. Evans, could
not in fact be'distinguished fiom every thing else before known, when brought into comparison with it,
nor that a skilful person, from its description, would
not be able to make one like it; which would seem to
satisfy every requisition of the law. Butthe defendant's counsel say.this is not enough. It should not
only in its organization and aggregate be different
from every thing else, but every respect in which it
differs in its construction roperatiou from other machines. should be minutely stated in'the specification;
or, in other words, that other machif'es beretofore
used for similar purposes, should be either-elescriled
or referred to -therein, and the differences between the
patented machines and those hif former use, be carefully designated.
The answer to this i%,that the law does not require it-that it is impracticable, and would be of no
use.
We have seen already that the law prescribes no
precise form of specificatioi, which would have been
impracticable, and imposes no obligation fo describe,
in any particular mode, the machine in question. Not
a word is said as to showing in what particulars the
improvement patented differs from all other machines
for the same purpose then in use. If, on the whole
description taken together, the machine of the plaintiff can be distinguished from other machines when
compared with histhe words and theobjectsof the law
are satisfied. The law appears to have nothing else
inview, in requiring a specification, than the instrucVOL. VII.

56

i8n.

v.

Eaton.

CASES- IN THE SUPREME CdURT

442
1822.
Ev.ans

tion of the public ; that is, to guard them against a
violation of the patented improvement, and to enable

V.

them, when the letters patent expire, from the speei-

Wacon.

fication.filed, to make, a machine similar to the one
which-had been pItented. The only inquiry, therefore, ought to be, whether this obviois intention of
the legislature has been answered by the particular
specifitation which may be.the subject of litigation ;
and if enough appears, either to prevent a person
from encroaching on the right of the patentee, or to
enable a skilful person to make a machine which'
shall not only resemble the one patented, but produce
the like effect; more .ought not to he required.
Whether these ends be attained by a particular descri'Cion of. every part, of the improved machine, or
by describing in what respdct it differs from othei
maokines, can make no difference. The information to the public is as valuable and intdlligible, if
not more so, in the former case. than in the latter.
If it be, taken-altogether, an improved machiae, for
the purpose of producing certain results, and so described that it may be distinguished from other machines, and that othets may be made on the same
model, it is a literal compliance vith all that the law
requires. If the different parts of the machine, and
their combination, or connexion, be accurately described, or intelligibly set forth, why should it not
be supported, although no reference be made to
other machines dissimilar in construction, and
which, although applied for the same purpose, are
inferior in tle beneficial results produced by them.
To the objection, that it does not precisely appear in

4

OF THE UNITED STATES.

what the patent Hopperboy differs from those antecedently in use, the answer is, and it ought to be
conclusive, that-.the patentee does jiot meqh to
thqse or any
abridge or -restrain the public from using
other -machines, so that they-differ.from the one described by him; and that .any mechanic, on having
his specification.beforehim, can.avoid an-interference
with his invention. To confine our examination to
the only Hopperboy whilch Txas produced on this
trial, and which was called Stouffer's -opperboy,
and of which a model -has been exhibited to the
Court, together with a model -of Evans' improved
Hopperboy, can a doubt be entertajned for. an instant, that they are-very dissi'zilar, and that any me.
chanic woulh not, in a moment, .point out the. distinctions between them, either -from the specification
or the model-or that he would not be able to make
a Stouffer Hopperboy, or the improved Hopperboy of
Evans, as lie might. be directed ; and in liJe manner
he.would- be able, when brought together, to discriminate between any other 'Hopperboy arid that of
Evans, provided they were different, so that those
who were desirous of having a Hopperboy, oU an
old -constrijction, 'and of not interfering with the
rights of Mr..Evans would labour under no difficulty
whatever. But inasmuch as Evans himself has not
discriminated or exhibited in his specification all the
points of difference between.his and other Hopperboys, it is supposed that his patent is for some Flopperboy already in use, as well as for his improvement
thereon. The very terms of his specification precluded every supposition of that kind. If there

1822.
Evans

V.

CASES
1822

-.
Eaton.

IN

THE SUPREME COURT

were a thousand of those machines) on difibrent
constructions, in use before the date of his patent,
he leaves to the public the undisturbed enjoyment of
them. He meddles not, nor does he pretend to
interfere with any of them, until they make or use
one constructed, in all its parts, upon his model.
That form, and that form alone, he claims as his
invention or improvement. It would not have been
difficult, even from British authorities, to show that
this specification was sufficient ; but I prefer recurring to our own law as the only proper criterion of
the validity or invalidity of the specification in
question. My opinion is, that it has all the cerr
ainty which is required by law.
Such a specification as is required by the Circuit
Court, is not only not prescribed by law, but, to me,
it appears to be one extremely difficult, if not impracticable.
If the inventor ot an improved fl6pperboy is to
discriminate, in his specification, between his improvements and any particular Hopperboy, which
may be produced on that trial, and is to be nonsuited for not having done so, however correct and
distinguishing it may be in every other respect, he
must do the like as to all other Hopperboys; and if
lie must describe any, he must describe all others
with which he may be. acquainted; and, aftei all,
some one may be introduced at the trial, of which lie
had never heard, or which he had never seen ; and
inasmuch as he had not stated in what respects it
was improved by his machine, although this would
immediately be seen on inspection, he must not

445

OF THE UNITED STATES

only fail of recovering damages for a manifest violation of his right, but must have his patent declared
void by the Court,y without a trial by jury, and be
deprived of the fruits of a most valuable improvemeit, not because he was not the bonafide inventor
-- notbecause he had riot described his improvement
with suffitient certainty, according to the act of Congress-but because something more was required of
him, of which he bad no means of information.
The only Hopperboy which made its appearance on
this trial, except the plaintiff's, was that known by
the name of the Stouffer Hopperboy; but vlon consu,
that there may niot have been a hundred different
kinds in use, and some entirely unknown to the plain.tiff. If he could have described them all, which would
not have been an easy task, and stated in what particulars his Hopperboy differed from them all, his specification would have extended to an immoderate
length, and after all have been less intelligible and
satisfactory than a full description, such as is given
here, of all the parts of which his consisted, and
of the manner in which they are pitt together.
There may be cases in which an improvement may
be so simple as to describe it at once by reference to
the thing or machine improved, as in the case of an
improvement of this kind on a common watch. But
Qeven in the case of a watch, if the improvement pervades the whole machine, it would be a compliance
with the terms of the law, if the patentee described
every part of his improved watch, with its principle,
without discriminating particularly in what respect
his different wheels. &c. varied from all other watch-

1822.

.
E.
Eaton.

CASES IN T-HE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Evans

V.
Eaton.

esthen in use. Many patents have been obtained for
improvements on stoves, locks, &c. ; but has, it ever
been required of the patentee, in such cases, not only
to describe in- what manner his stove or lock is constructed,, and-the benefits resulting from'such construction.,- but to point out exvery particular in which
they differ from those already in use ? This, to say the
least, would be a work of great labour, and of little
or no. use- to the- public, who woiuld be at liberty to
use a stove or lock of any construction, not interfering with the one described in the specification of
the patentee.
A few observations will show that such a description as the defeadant's counsel, contend for, would
be of no.greater use thart the one which Mr, Evans
has adopted. After all the pains to'diseriminate
had been taken, the questiot would still. recur, how
is the "improved Hopperboy to be constructed ? and
if, from the specification, that, could, not be ascertained, then, and then only ought it tW be pronouned defective. But. if-from the description, the improved -Hopperboy could, be made by a skillful meAanic, then the public is informed, not only of what
has been patentedi but of what still remains common
as before,and if an -action be brought f~r a violationof the patented right, and it should appear that the
Hoppe.rboy used is not of. such construction, the
plaintiff must tail in:his suit. It cannot be said, with
-anyjustice, that if. the discriminatign be ndt made,
the patent includes not.only the improvement, but
the old machine on whiclthe improvement is engraft-

447

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ed. The old machine still temains public property ;
may he used by every one ; nor can any person be
considered as infringing on the patent right, until he
adds to the machine already in use the improvements
of the .patentee, or, in other words, until lie makes a
machine resembling, in all its parts, the one which
is described in the specifi.ation.
2d. But if the specification be. defective in the
points whichhave been mentioned, is the patent
therefore necessarily void ? This is a question of vital importance to every patentee.
I am aware that it has been said in England, that
the patent must notbe more extensive than the invention ; therefore, if the inivention consists in an improvement only, and the patent is for the whole machine, it is void. But I am not aware that it has ever
been decided there that when a patent is for an "improved machine," and is taken out only for the machine thus improved, and not for the machine as before
used, that such patent is void. But whatever may
have been some of the late decisions in that countrv,
I prefer, and think it the better course, to consider
this question also under our own act, which, in this
respect, is different from the. English statute, and
will therefore afford us 'more 'light, and he a safer
guide thaneither that statute or the judgment on it. In
what part, then, of our act, may it be asked, is an authority given to the Federal Courts to declare apatent
nid for a defective specification, however innocently made, and whichin its consequences can injure no
one? I state the question in this way, not because
I think it necessary to show that if injurious conse-

1822.
Evan
E.

'448
1iM.
v.ns
E.
Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

quences might flow from an imperfect .specification,
a patent must necessarily -be declayed void, but hecause I think it'must Ee admitted that there is no evidnce whatever in this cause, to induce any one to
believe that-Mr. Evans either intended to take, or
thathe did receive a patent lbr any thing beyond
his invention,, which was the 11opperboy in the improved coudition in which lie describes it. To doclare a patent for'a highuly useful improvement absolutely void, iterelty.ti'r a defective specification,
if this be one3 is a very high penalty, and should
not be lightly inflicted, tnless rendered absolutely
necessary by law; tne more -especially, as without recurring to.so harsh a:measure, a Court andjury will
always be able to cgnfine a remedy on the patent to
violations of the improvement actually secured1 and
if the patentee should be sd foolish, or ill-ad vised, .as
to attempt to bring within.its reach the. machine in
its unimproved state, or any other machine befbre
common, he would do it, not only with no prospect
of success, but with the certainty of a defeat, .attended with a very heavy expense. As long, therefore,,as
he could maintain no action, but for his improvemont,
it is not perceived why he should be visited with so
heavy a denunciation as the forfeiture of hi improvement,. merely because, by'some construction of
his specification, which might after all be a mistaken
one, he had included in his invention, sometlhng of
ever so trifling, a nature, which was already known.
But if such be the law, and such the frail tenure on
which these rights dre held, however hard it may
apply in particular cases, it must have its course. But

W4

OF THE UNITED STATES.

I caRnot think it our duty, or that we have any right
to pronounce a patent void on this account; but that
-this important office is exclusively confided to a jury.
Whether we have this right or not, will now be examined. If such summary authority were intended
to have been conferred on the Federal Courts, the Patent law ought to- have been, and would have been,
explicit. This is so far from. being the case, that in
.the patent'law, a provision, but of a different kind,
is inserted on this very subject, -which is not the
case in the statute of James. It was foreseen, that it
must sometimes happen, eitherfrom the imperfection of
language, or the ignorance of a patentee, that defective specifications would be made; it'was also
foieseen, that, an imperfect specification might be
made from design, and with a view of deceiving the
public. -We accordingly find it provided by law,
that among other matters which the defendant may
rey on in an action for infringing a patent right, is,
.,&
that the specification filed does not contain the
whole truth relative to his discovery, or that it contains more than is necessary to produce the described
effect, which concealment, or addition, must fully
appear to have been made for the purpose of deceiving the public." If judgment is rendered for the defendant on this ground, the patent is to be declared
void. This section applies as well to patents for an
improvement on an existing machine, as for an invention entirely new ; and was intended to protect
the patent in either case against an avoidance for an
imperfect and innocent specification of the invention
therefore, the defect which is alleged,
patefhted, If,
VAr,. Vii

57

1822.

V.

450

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

really exist in the specification of the patented imthe Court is not authorized, on its mero
Evans Sprovement,
declare it imperfect, and the patent, on
to
pspection,
V.
Eaton.
that account, void. Both questions are clearly
questions of fact, and are so treated by the legislature. The party has a right to insist with the jury,
not only that his specification is perfect, but that if
it be otherwise, no deception was intended on the
public; and on either ground, they may find a verdict in. his favour. So if, on the allegation, that the
thing secured by patent was not originally discovered
by the patentee, a verdict passes against the plaintiff,
he loses his patent. In like manner, in this case, if
it. had appeared that the "1improved Hopperboy,"
which was the thing secured by patent, had not been
originally discovered by Mr. Evans, and a verdict
had passed against him on that ground, there would
have been an end of his patent. From the tenth
section, also, an argument may be drawn against the
right of a Court to declare a patent void, on mere
inspection, for redundancy or deficiency in a specification. This section provides a mode of proceeding
before the District Court, where there may be reason
to believe a patent was obtained surreptitiously, or
upon false suggestions; and if, on such proceeding,
it shall appear that the patentee was not the trite inventor, judgment shall be rendered by such Court
for a repeal of the patent. This is the only case in
which a power is conferred on a Court, to vacate a
patent, without the intervention of a jury. If a proceeding of this kind had been instituted before the
proper tribunal against Mr. Evans, the Court would
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

have examined witnesses, and have formed its opinion on their testimony; and it is not clear that even
in this -case a jury might not have been called in.
that
This section has been taken notice of, to show
itcould never have been the intention of the legislature, that a patent should be avoided, on any account
whatever, on the-opiniob of the Court alone, -without
some examination other than that of the specification, whatever might be its excess, or poverty of
description. If it had been intended to vest so important a power in the Court, it would not have been
left to mere implication, but would have been confired in terms admitting of no doubt. My opinion,
therefore, on: thispart of the charge is, that the Court
erred'in taking Upon itself to pronounce the patent
void, even if the specification had been defective, or
imperfect, in not particularly describing what the improvementsof the patentee were; this being a power
expressly delegated to a jury, whof under all the circumstances of the case, are to decide both questions
of fact; that is, whether the specification be deficient, or superfluous, and the intention with which
it was made so. I repeat once more, that whatever
may have been the decisiops in England, which are
not admitted to be contrary to the view which has
here been taken -of the subject, they are not of
authority, and are upon an act so very different in
its structure from our own, as to afford little or no
useful information on the subject. One great and
important difference in the, two laws is-that the
statute of James I. has not prescribed a mode in which
a patent for a vicious specification is to be set aside.

451
182.

Eaton.

452
1822.
"Evams

&aton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The patent is granted on condition that a specification be enrolled.
I give no. opinion on the questions which arise
from the admission of certain witnesses, who were
supposed to be disqualified, on the score of being interested ; for if the patent for the Hopperboy be void,
for a defect in its specification, and that question is
not to be referred to the jury, and such I understand
to he the opinion of four of the judges, it is very unimportant, whether any error was committed in this
respect by the Court before which the cause was
tried ; as a verdict must ever be rendered against the
representatives of the patentee, on this ground, whatever may be the state of the evidence.
Mr. Justice JOHISON, and Mr. Justice
also dissented.

DUVALL,

Judgment affirmed with costs.

