OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
Taylor
V.

[Loc-AL LAW.]

Myers.

TAYLOR'S Lessee v. MYERS.
The owner of a survey made in conformity with his entry, and not interfering with any other person's right, may abandon his survey after
it has been recorded.
The proviso in the act of March 2, 1807, c. 76. s. 1. which annuls al
locations made on lands previously surveyed, applies to subsisting survevs, to those in which an interest is claimed; not to those which
have been abandoned, and in which nn person has an interest.

THIs cause was argued at the last term, by Mr.

Doddridge,nnd Mr- Scott, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. Brush, for the defendant.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes on upon two questions, certified by the Circuit Court for the District of Ohio, in
which the Judges of that Court were divided in opinion. The following is stated as the case on which
the question arose:
"The plaintiff's claim is founded on an entry dated the 17th of February, 1817, surveyed the 19th
of February, 1817, and on a patent founded thereon,
dated the 18th of' July, 1818, dovering the premises
in.question.
",The defendant showed that the plaintiff, on the
27th of February, 1797, made an entry on the premises in question on another warrant, surveyed the

Fd,.

iwm.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

'on
Taypor
V.
Myers.

same the 15th of April, 1797, and recorded the platt
the 20th of June of the same year.
" That before making the entry on which his patent is founded, he had withdrawn his said first entry
and survey, by a marginal note on the record thereof,
made on the surveyor's book, (if a survey so circumstanced, could be so withdrawn) and located the
warrant elsewhere.
" The parties further agreed, that such withdrawals
were customary ever since the year 1799."1
The questions are,
1. Can the owner of a survey, made in conformity with his entry, and not interfering with any other
person's right, abandon his survey after it has been
recorded ?
2. Can the defendant upon these facts, protect himsell, at law, Under the act of Congress, passed on the
2nd ot March 1807, entitled; " An act to extend the
the time for locating Virginia military warrants, fbr
returning surveys thereon to the office of the Secretary of the Department of War, and appropriating
lands, foe' the use of schools in the Virginia military
reservation, in lieu of those heretofore appropriated ;" and the several subsequent acts on the same
subject ?
The military warrants, to which these questions
refer, originate :n :he land law of Virginia. The
question, whether a warrant completely executed by
survey, can be withdrawn and so revived by the withdrawal, as to be located in another place, has never,
so far as is known, been decided in the Courts of that
State. In Kentucky. where the same law governs,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

it has been- ecently determined, that a warrant Dnce
carried into survey with the consent of the owner,
canuot be re-entered and surveyed in ahy other.place.
In Ohio, it is not- understood that the question has
been decided.
The first question, however, does not involve the
right of the owner of a warrant, which has been surveyed, to-enter and survey it elsewhere; but his right
to abandon .it entirelyIt draws into doubt the right of an individual, to
refuse to consummate a title once begun.
In this respect no coercive.principle is to be found
in the act. An entry is forfeited, if not surveyed with,
in a limited time. A-survey is forfeited if not returned
to -the land office by a specified time. In these cases,
the right of abandonment is recognized.- An individual may abandon his survey, by not feturning it to
the land office within the time prescribed by law.
Why may he not abandon it by any other unequivocal act ? This is not prescribed as a single mode, by
which a right is to be exercised ; but is annexed as a
penalty for not proceeding to complete a title. The
legislature determined, that no man should be allowed to lock up land from others, without suich an appropriation as would subject it to the common burdens of society. He was at liberty to perfect his title,
or to lose it; but was required to do the one or the
other.
It seems to be an ingredient in the character of
property, that a person who has made some advances towards acquiring it, may relinquish it, provided
the rights of others be not affected by such relinquishVOL.

VI.

4

1822.
Taylor

V.
DIyerL

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

This general principle derives great strength
usage which has prevailed among these military surveys. The case states, that it has been customary, ever since the year 1799, to withdraw surveys after they have been recorded. The place surveyed has, of course, been considered as having again
become vacant, and has been appropriated by other
warrants, which have been surveyed and carried into
grant. It would be a serious mischief, the extent of
which cannot be calculated, to declare these grants
void. No subject requires to be treated with more
delicacy than the land titles of a country, where a law
has been explained by usage. Upon the general
principle, which has been stated, and upon the custom of the country in this respect, the Court is of opinion, that the owner of a survey, under the circumstances stated in the first question, may abandon it ;
but by doing so he will not cancel the rights of
others.
If the plaintiff was at liberty to withdraw his survey, the defendant could not protect himself, under the
act of Congress, to which the second question refers.
The proviso of that act, which annuls all locations
made on lands previously surveyed, applies to subsisting surveys, to those in which an interest is claimed; not to those which have been abandoned, and in
which no person has an interest. A certificate is
to/e given in conformity with these principles.
ment.

Sfrom

Taylor

V.

]Vlyers.

CERTIFICATE.-This cause came on to be heard
on the facts agreed by the parties, and on the question on which the Judges of the Circuit Court were

OF THE UNITED STATES.

divided, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof this Court doth order, that it be certified to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio:
. That the owner of a survey, made in conformity with his entry, and not interfering with any other
person's right, may abandon his survey after it has
been recorded.
2. That the defendant, on the facts stated in the
case, cannot protect himself at law, under the act of
Congress, passed the 2d of. March, 1807, entitledy
"An act to extend the time for locating Virginia
military warrants, for returning surveys thereon
to the office of the Secretary of the Department of
War, and appropriating lands for the use of schools
in the Virginia military reservation, in lieu of those
heretofore appropriated," and the several subsequent
acts on the same subject.

(CommoN.

wA.]

GREEN V. WATKINS.
In a writ of.right, the tenant cannot give in evidence the title of a thirl
person, withwhich he has no privity, unless it be for the purpose of
disproving the demandants seisin.
Therefore, where the demandant proves an actual seisin. by- a.pedii
positio, the tenant cannot be permitted to prove a superior outstanding title, since it does not disprove the demandant's seisin.
Butwhere the demandant relies for proof of seisin, solely-upon a con-

182. .
Green

v.
Wafliov.

