OF THE UNITED STATES.

the cause was not put on this point, nor do any -of
the instructions given by the Court, refer to it. The'e
is no allusion to notice to all the banks, and the deed
one, so
would not be void, on account of notice to
far as respected others.
There are several opinions given py the Court,
which are dependent on this single principle : That
the communications between Fitzhugh and Marbury,
though unknown to the banks, avoid the deed. The
cause, so far as it is now before the Court, essentially depends On this single principle. This Court is
of opinion, that in this, the Circuit Court erred,
and that the deed ;.s not void, unless Marbury acted
with the concurrence or knowledge of the banks, or
unless they assented to it under sinie engagement,
express or implied, to suppress the prosecution.
Judgment reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.

(ComoN LAw.)

DORR v.

The PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY.

Under a policy containing the following clause: "1And lastly, it is"
agreed, that if the above vessel, upon aregu," survey, should be
thereby declared unseaworthy, by reason of her-being unsound or
rotten, then the assurers shall not be bound to pay their subscription. on this policy," and it was found by the jury that thb vessel was
seaworthy atthe'time of the commencement oftherisk, and when she
sailed on the voyage insured: .Hdd, that proof,by a regular survey,
of unsoundness at anysubsequent period of the voyage, discharge
the undery-iters.

581
1822.
Blarbury
v.
Brooks

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

582
1822.
Dorr
v.
The Pacific

Insurance
Company.

An exemplification of a condemnation of the vessel in a foreign Court
of Vice Admiralty, reciting the certificate of surveyors, that the vcssel was unworthy of being repaired, and unsafe and unfit over to go
to sea again, and produced in evidence by the insured to prove the
loss, is "a regular survey," in the language of the above clause.

But the survey must correspond with the contract, and if the vessel
be declared unseaworthy for any additional cause, besides being "unsound or rotten," it is not conclusive evidence of unseawortbinc.n.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the Southern

District of New-York.

This was an action of assumpsit upon a policy of
iusuraxice subscribed by the defendants on the 8th
September, 1819, whereby they insured the ship
Holofern, belonging to the plaintiff, and valued at
86,125, on a voyage from Wiscasset in Maine to
Havana in the West Indies. The policy contained
the following clause:
" And lastly, it is agreed, that if the above vessel,
upon a regular survey, should be thereby declared
unseaworthy, by reason of her being unsound or rot-

ten, or incapable of prosecuting her voyage on account of her being unsound or rotten, then the assurers shall not be bound to pay their subscription on
this policy."
A special v6rdict was found by the jury, stating
that the ship Iolofern was the .property of the plaintiff, and sailed on the voyage, insured, on the 9th
September, 1819, and in the course of the voyage she
met with violent gales, in consequence of which she
sprung aleak, and after attempting, in vain, to pursue
her voyage, was compelled to bear away for NewProvidence, and arrived in the harbour she grounded,
from an insufficient depth of water, but was got off,

OF THE UNITED 6TATES.

and a regular survey was had upon her by surveyors
appointed by the Vice Admiralty Court at said Nassan, and upon such survey the said ship was condemned in the manner stated in-the sentence of condemnation, of which the following is a copy:
Bahaia Islands,
Jew-Providence.

VhNTRE L(STANCE COURT OF VICE
A.DMRALTY.

SHIP HOLOFERN, JOHN S. THOMPSON, MASTER.
In the name of God, Amm!

L. S. AT a Court of Vice Admiralty held the
twenty-sixth day of October, one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, before me,. the Worshipful Theodore George Alexander, Esquire, Judge and Commissary of the said Court, John S. Thompson, the
master of the American ship Holofern, by William
Kerr and Henry M. Williams, his Proctor in that
behalf duly appointed, came into Court, and alleged,
that on the twentieth day of this instant month of
October, he did exhibit a libel or information against
the said ship, when be gave the Court to udderstand
and- be informed, that on the eighth day of October
instant, the said John S. Thompson, by his Proctor
aforesaid, did make humble petition to the Court,
statingi that on the ninth day of September last pAst,
he sailed in and with the said ship from Wiscasset,
in the State of Massachusetts, bound on a voyage to
Havana, in the island of Cuba, with a cargo of lum.ber, spars, oars, anchors, and coals, and on the eighteenth day of the same month, in latitude 280 39 , by
observation, he. experienced a very violent gale of
of wind, during which the said ship sprung aleak:

58,5
18 .
'*Drr

V.,

ThParfic

Insumrnce
Company.

684

CASES IN*THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
.
Do.
The Pacific

Insuance

that all hands were, in consequence thereof, employed at the pumps until the twenty-fourth of the same

month, when he had proceeded on his voyage
as far

as the Bahama Bank: that at that time the people,

Company. being nearly exhausted by incessant labour at the

pumps, they insisted on bearing up for New-Providence, which he thought it prudent to do as the wind
was then westerly, and a-head for the Havana: that
he accordingly proceeded for" New-Providence with
the said ship, and arrived in the harbour of Nassau
on the twenty-sixth day of the said month of September : that since the arrival of the said ship in the
said port, a part of her cargo had been landed, and,
upon his inspecting and examininginto her condition,
he conceived her not only unfit to proceed to sea again
in her present sf ate, but altogether unworthy of being
repaired. Anc' he therefore prayed that a warrant
might forthwith issue out of this honourable Court,
according to law and the usage and practice of the'
said Court in such cases, to cause the said ship to.be
surveyed and examined by persons duly competent in
that behalf, who might report as to the true state and
condition of the said ship. And thereupon a warrant did issue accordingly, directed to William Gibson and John Russell, of the.island of New-Providence, shipwrights, and Samuel Clutsam, of the same
place, late a master mariner, who did certify, on the
nineteenth day of October instant, on oath, That on
the eighth day, of October instant they repaired on
board the sdfa American ship Holofern, John S.
Thompson, master, riding at anchor in the harbour of
Nassau, but not finding the said ship more than half

OF THE UNITED STATES.

585

discharged, they could not then properly proceed to
1822.
examine into her state and condition." And they did
Dorr
further certify, that on the -'ixteenth day of October
v.
cfq
Titoa
diseharged,
nearly
then
1
instant, the said ship being
they were enabled to inspect and examine into her Company.
state and condition, and having done so minutely and
diligently, they found her to be in a very leaky state,
and having at the same time caused a part of her in,
side ceiling to be stripped off, they discovered the said
ship to be in a very decayedcondition. And they'did
further certify, that they were of opinion, that the
said ship was altogether unworthy of being repaired,
and that she ought to be cond6mned as being unsafe
and unfit ever to go to sea again.
Wherefore the said William Kerr and Henry M.
Williams, as the lawful Proctor aforesaid, prayed me,
the Worshipful Theodore George Alexander, Esquire,
Judge and Commissaryas aforesaid, that right and
justice might be duly administered to them and their
party in the premises; that the said ship Holofern
might, Jby the decree of this honourable Court, be
c7ondemned as unfit for further service, and together
with boats, tackle, apparel, and furniture, be ordered
to be sold by the Marshal of this Court, and the
proceeds thereof might be paid to the said John S.
Thompson, or his agent, for the use of the owners
and proprietors and insurers thereof, and that such
other proceedings might be had and done in the premises as should be agreeable to law, and the style
and practice of the Admiralty. And whereas, the
usual and proper monition hath been issued and returned in this cause, and no person having appeared
VOL. VII.

74

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1892.
Dor~rII~

V.

The Pacific

insurance
Company.

to show cause why the said ship should not be condemaed agreeable to the prayer of the said master,
therefore, l,the said Theodore George Alexander,
Esquire, Judge and Commissary as aforesaid, having
considered the whole proceedings had and done before me in this cause, do hereby adjudge, pronounce,
and declare the said ship unfit for the furthbr service,
and as such do condemn the said ship, and direct that
the same, together with her boats, tackle, apparel,
and furniture, be forthwith sold by the Marshal of
the said Court, and the proceeds paid to the said John
S. Thompson, or his agents, for and upon account
and use of the owner, proprietors, and insurers, thereof.
In testimony whereof, I, the said Theodore George
Aiexander, Esquire, Judge and Commissary as
atbresaid, have hereunto set my hand and caused
the seal of the said Court to be affixed, at Nassau,
the twenty-sixth day of October, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and nineteen.
(Signed.)

THEO. G. ALEXANDER, J. C. V. A.

Bahama Islands,
NA'n-Providence.

IA" THE VICE ADMIRA2LTY INSTANCE
COURT.

In the case of the American ship Holofern, John
S. Thompson, master, I certify the foregoing paper
writing to be a true copy of the Decree made and
given in the above cause.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand,
and caused the seal of the said Court to be affixed, this seventeenth day of July, in the year of

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
twenty.
orr
ALEXANDER M. EDWARDS,
Pac;'o
Dep. Reg. C. V. Ad. rhe
Insarnnc
Compfmy.

The special verdict also found, that the said rondemnation was obtained through the agency of John
and George K. Storr, a mercantile house at NewProvidence, to whom the Holofern was consigned
by her captain, and that the said John and George
K. Storr, (though ignorant of the insurance in this
case,) were the general agents of the defendants to
manage their concerns at New-Providence.
The special verdict further stated, that in consequence of this condemnation the ship was sold, and
the voyage lost: that the plaintiff exhibited to the
defendants the requisite preliminary proofs of interest and loss, more than thirty days before bringing the action.
That the said ship was seaworthy at the time of
the commencement of the said risk, and when she
sailed upon the voyage insured; and assessed the
plaintiff's damages, in case he was entitled-to recover, at $6,626 20.
The record also contained a bill of exceptions, by
which it appeared, that the plaintiff produced a copy
of the record of the said Vice Admiralty Court, as
preliminary proof of loss. and the judge charged the
jury that the said copy of the said sentence of condemnation having been produced in evidence by the
counsel for the plaintiff. as preliminary proof of loss,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

was, as against the plaintiff, sufficient evidence of a
survey, in the absence of any proof to the
Do"r Sregular
:-to which opinion the plaintiff's counsel
I.
contrary
Th6 Pacific
Insurance excepted.
It further appeared, that the said Admiralty proCompany.
1822.

ceedings at New-Providence were conducted under
the directions of Messrs. John and George K. Storrs,
a mercantile firm of that place, under whose charge
the captain had placed the Holofern. The Messrs.
Storrs were authorized by a general power of attorney, set out in the bill of exceptions, to attend to the
interests of the defendants at New-Providence, but
there was no evidence that they were apprised that
the defendants had insured the Holofern.
The counsel for the plaintiff, for the purpose of
proving that the said condemnation had been fraudulently obtained, inquired of the captain of the Holofern, who was a witness in the cause, whether he
ever made the statement represented by the said sentence of condemnation, to lave been made in his petition to the said Court, to wit, that he-conceived that
the Holofern was not only incapable to proceed to
sea in her then state, but altogether unworthy of being repaired ? This question was overruled by the
judge.
The same witness was then asked, by the plaintiff's counsel, whether the inside ceiling of the said
ship was ever stripped off, as stated.in the said sentence of condemnation, and whether she was not in
such a situation, by reason of the position of such
parts of her cargo and ballast as remained on board,
and of the water in the hold, that it could not have

OF THE UNITED STATES.

589

been stripped off as there stated ? This question 1822.
was in like manner overruled.
•
Dorr
The witness was then asked, whether he had not
V.
MuPac
that
surveyors.
the
of
one
Gibson,
by
been informed
the Holofern was not condemned on account 6f her Company.
being rotten, but because she could not be hove down
to be repd.red, for want of conveniences for that
purpose at New-Providence ? This question was
also overruled.
. The same witness was then asked, whether he did
not, by directions from the Messrs. Storrs, after the
sale of the ship and cargo, (at which sale the witness was not present,) call upon the said Gibson, as
having purchased pait of the said cargo at auction,
for the price thereof, and receive the same ? The
judge having ascertained, by inquiry of the plaintiff's
counsel, that they had been in possession of the account sales of the said cargo, signed by the iMessrs.
Storrs, 'but that the same had been sent to Maine, to
recover a loss upon a policy on the cargo subscribed
there, overruled the said question.'
The plaintiff's counsel excepted to the several deisions overrufing the said questions.
'Mr. H. D. Sedgwick, for the plaintiffin error, ar- X.nur'h: Wf.
gued () that the sentence of condemnation, of the
Court of Vice Admiralty at New-Providence, and the
survey stated therein, being subseqzient to the comnmencement of the risk, could only prove the unsea
worthiness of the ship, at the time of the surmey."
a Marine Ins. Co. v. Wilson, 3 Crocth 187.

.590
1822.
'

Dorr

V.
Lisurance
Company.

The Pacific

CASES IN THE sUPREME COURT

The clause in question has always been considered,
both in arguments at the bar, and in the decision of
the Courts, not as varying the reciprocal rights and
duties of the parties, but simply as a stipulation in
relation to evidence; nothing farther 'is required of
the insured than to furnish a competent vessel at the
inception of the voyage, and all subsequent accidents
and losses are at the risk of the insuret, anid of
consequenpe, it was held in the case dited, that
a report of surveyors in regard to the state of
the ship on the 16th of October, was not compepetent, or if competent, not conclusive evidence
of her condition, on the 9th September precedding.
It had been suggested, that the decision in the
Marine Insurance Companyv. Vilson was founded
oil the particular state of the pleadings; but there
was n6---timation in that case, that the defence
would have been available in any other form,' and
the case was decided for the plainitiff on the ground
.that it did not appear by the record that apy evider)6e
wtas offered to- prove the vessel unsound on the 24th
October, except the report of the surveyors, wbhi'cl
wis -made on the 26th1 NOvember,. aid that there was
no parol testimony to explain the report, or 'apply it
to the time of the commencement of the risk.
' 2. It is necessary for"the protection of the inslrer '
that it should appear by the survey, that the rottellness of the ship w as the exclusive cause of hr
condemnation. .Such is the clear result of all the
casesa
a Guamiguez v. Coxe, 1 Bin. 592.

Watson et al. v. Ins. Co.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Now here it does not appear that the ship was ir1822.
reparable from unsoundness solely. On the contrary,
,. .s
Dart
it appears by the special verdict, that she " met with The V.
Pacific
violent gales, in consequence of A 'c she sprang a Insurance
leak." The Folofem is stated by the survey to have Company.
been in a leaky .tate ; the cause of that leakiness is
not stated, but it is to be referred to the leak sprung
in consequence of the perils insured .against. The
rule has been laid down more Strongly than we contend for. " Springing a leak is a peril insured
against, and any accident which can be traced to
the springing of a leak, in a calm or in a storm, and
after a long or short absence from port."1a
The condemnation proceeded as well on the
ground of the leakiness of the vessel, as of her decayed condition ; and it is sufficient for the plaintiff;
if it appear that the leakiness was not, of necessity,
to be-solely ascribed to the decay. In this case, the
language of the record may fairly be considered as
amounting to no more than this : "By the extraordinary violence of the gale, the ship was so sprung,
and started in her timbers and planks, as to be in a
very leaky state, and to require a thorough repair to
bemade tight. She was decayed, as all ships are,
and not so sound a vessel as to render extensive repairs expedient."
It appears, from the wiole record, that there was
of N. A. Condy's Marsh. 169. note b. Amroyd v. Union Ins.
Co. 2..Bin. 394. Stientitz v. United Ins. Co. 2 Ser. 4-. RaIle,
at293.
o Patrick v. Hallett, 3 Johtns. Cas. 76.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

692
1822

no proof that a regular survey had been had on the

'ship.
Derr

1h-

Insurance
Company.

if
The bill of exceptions is part of the record; and
necessary, the special verdict may be amended by it.
As a general rule, all errors and defects may be amended when there it? !y thing by which the amendment
can be made. The provision for amendments made
by the law of the United States, is much more liberal than any of the English statutes of Jeoffails.a 'T1e
practice of amending verdicts is familiar. It is often done from the notes of the judge, at the term subsequent to the trial, and such notes are certainly
much less authentic than a bill of exceptions, settled at the time, and sealed by the judge as making
part of the record.
Although the fact of a survey having been had
on the Holofern, is directly stated in the special verdict ; we have a right, therefore, to resort to the
bill of exceptions, to see upon what evidence the fact
is so stated.
It is obvious to remark a very striking difference between this case and everj other to be found in the
books, in which the application of this clause in a
policy of insurance, was brought in question. In
every other case the survey itself, or an authenticated
copy, was produced in evidence, and is set out in the
case. Here no survey was produced ; no copy
proved, nor even an extract given from the survey.
'What the survey was, or whether it ever had any
existence as a written document, does not appear.
All the evidence we have of it, is an account or suma Judiciary Act, 1789, c. 20 s. 32.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

mary, (and probably an imperfect one,) which is con182i2.
tained in the rec6 -d of the Vice Admiralty Court,
Dorr
and it is apparent from this record, that the words of TePacific
.
the surveyors are not given. If there ever was any Insuranco
paper in writing signed'by the surveyors, it has been Company.
wholly re-m6delled. All the tenses of the verbs are
changed.
The defendants should have produced -the survey
itself, or, at least, have distinctly and unequivocally
required the plaintiff to produce it. They did neither.
Upon what evidence then do the defendants rely
to substantiate the fact in question ? Solely on the
record of the Court of Vice Admiralty at New-Providence.
It is first to -be observed that the clause in question
in the New-York policies (of which this is one) differs
in one respect from the correspondent clause in the
policies of the cities south of Nev-York, upon which
adjudications have been had. In the southern policies, the phraseology is such as might seem to point
to judicial proceedings ; here the words are, " if the
above vessel upon a regular survey should be thereby declared, &e. ;" distinctly placing the bar on the
survey alone.
The great question between the parties is, whether
'the decree in the Vice Admiralty Court is conclusive
evidenceofa regular survey; for if not conelusive, the
verdict in our favour will entitle us to judgment.
It will scarcely be pretended, that independently of
the stipulation in thepolicy, the record of the Vice Admiralty Court, or even the survey itself, however aueVOL.
VII.

75

CASES, IN THE, SUPRFME COURT

thenticated, would be conclusive evidence, or any evi~ dence of the unseaworthiness of the vessel.
Do.
It has been settled too often, and upon too solid
The
1822.

Pacifio

grounds, that admiralty s!lrveys, and the decrees of
" Vny. Courts thereon, are ex parte proceedings, and wholly
inadmissible as evidence between the insurer and insured, to make it necessary to do any thing more
than refer to the authorities.,
The precise reason for introducing the clause in
question into the policy, was because these surieys
were not evidence antecedently. It is evident, therefore, that if the record in question have any validity,
either as evidence of a survey or otherwise, such validity must be acquired wholly from the stipulation
in the policyi, without which the suivey itself, and
the adjudication of the Cotfrt thereon (however efficacious as ajoundation of title in a bona fide purchasei) w6rild, as between the partiei to this suit, be
mere nullities.
What then is the stipulation which is now pressed
against us ? If- we allow it all the effect contended
for on the other side, it is no more than this-a regular survey shall be taken as conclusive proof of unseaworthiness. The stipulation regards thefact, not
the manner in wldc it is to be proved-there is no
stipulation as to e'vidence.
"Thejustconstruction of the contract requires that
there should be a written survey, under the hands of
the surveyor. As has been observed, such a survey
Insurance

a Abbott v. Seabor,.3 Johns. Cas. 39. Wright v. Banxard, 2 Esp.
,N. P. Cas. 701.- S. C. Park. on Ins. 548. 61h Len. Ed.
*. Commercial Ins. Co., 16 Johrns. Rep. 487.

Saltus

OF THE UNITED STATES.

595"*

did exist, and was proved in every case reported in
1822.
the books. Now, we insist that our stipulation, which
Dorr
merely makes this document evidence, does not in ThoV.
Paific
any degree dispense with the ordinary and regular Inurnce
proof of the existence anid c ontents of 'the docum'ent
itself. The record of the V. A. Court was not competent to establish this d6cument, and, as before observed-ii does not even attemptto do it.
If the' record be conclusive evidence of the fact
and contents of the survey, it must be for one of two
reasons.
1. Because it was produced-by the plaintiff--or,
2. By its own. efficacy.
1st. The plaintiff was bound, by a provision in the
policy, to produce to the defendant preliminary proof'
bf loss, thirty days before the commencement of the
suit, and it was necessary to show on the trial that
he had exhibited this evidence to the defendant.
In point of fact, the decree of condemnation in the
V. A.Court of New-Providence occasioned, or rather
constimmated that loss, and, therefore, the plaintiff
prbduced a copy of that decree. 'His having done
so furnishes no reason why the recitals in that decree
should be evidence against him, much less why they
should be received as-incontrovertible; and the h'ardship o"such a rule-is the greater in a case like the
present, where the plaintiff was required to pro-..duce the evidence. -A protest of the master is usually
produced among the preliminary proof, but it was
never supposed that the insured was conclusively
bound by all the allegations the captain might choose

696

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
Dorr

V.

The Pacific

Insurance
Company.'

to insert in it. On the contrary, it has been held to
afford no legal evidence.a
The general rule is, that a document comingL from
the possession of a party is evidence against him,
only where he claims under it, and then it is subject
to explanation. Here we claim in opposition to it,
It may still be urged that the plaintiff was bound
to produce the survey. If it were necessary, we
should wholly deny this position. The policy imposes no such obligation on the insured, but simply
to produce to the underwriters "proof of interest and
loss." In every.other respect the parties contest upon
the usual principle, viz. that each produces the evidence in his own favour. Both parties 'so understood their reciprocal rights and duties. The defendants required the production, not of the survey, hut
of the decree of condemnation. The plaintiff furnished the document as the decree of condemnation,
and nothing else. We say, then, as Lord Kenyon
justly observed in a similar case,' the record of the
Court of V. A. proves the fact of the condemnation,
and proves nothing else.
It is a fule properly and fully settled that the underwriters can make no objection to the preliminary
proofs at the trial, except such as they made at tho
time they were exhibited. The insured is only
bround to produce what is bpecially required. The
special verdict in this case finds that the plaintiff, on
the defendants' requisition, produced the copy of the
a Senat v..Parker, 7 T. R. 158.
-b Wright v. 'Barnard, ub. -sp.
c Vose v. Robinson, 9 Johns. Rep. 102.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
decree of the V. A. Court, "1whereupon the defendDo,
ants required no further preliminary proof, but re.
fused to pay on the ground of unseaworthiness." T TePacific
Agreeably to the spirit of the rule, they ought now to Insurance
Company.
be held to the ground then taken.
Again . this objection, viz. that we were bound,to produce the survey, assumes a very important'factwhich
we by no means admit, viz. that there is or ever was
a witten document signed by the surveyors, which
could be produced. This throws us back to the
great and only- question in this part of the cause, viz.,
whether the record of the V. A Court is conclusive
evidence.
But we contend, that independently of its production by the plaintiff, the sentence of the V. A. Court
has not, by virtue of the stipulation of the parties, or
its own efficacy, any such conclusive effect as is contended for by the defendants.
It may be said that the necessary effect of the
clause is to refer the parties to the municipal regulations of any port where the vessel may 'happen to
be in distress, for there the survey must be had. We
admit this in its fullest extent. The foreign Court
is to order the survey, appoint the surveyors, and the
proceedings are all to be conducted according to the
local regulations. But this is all. The parties here
made no stipulation as to the rules of evidence, upon
which the cause is to be tried here. It is universally
true that the evidence is to be given according to the
lexfori. We consented that the V. A. Court of NewProvidence might order the survey; but then we
were to be bound by the survey itself, produced in

598
1822.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Court hereor a copy duly proved according to our
rules of evidence, and not by a partial garbled state-

Derr
The Pacific
The
~
ment of th.t survey which the register or other officer
Insurance
Company. of that Court might choose to make.

The C6urt below erred in overruling the several

questions put to the witness Thompson. The petition
was the foundation of the jurisdiction of the Court.
The decree of a prize Court (a much stronger
case) has been held void for want of a libel, as without it there could be no jurisdiction, a Suppose in
this case there had been no petition, then the acts of
the Court would have been wholly founded on the
assent of the party.
The answer of the witness to the second question
overruled by the judge, might have shown, not merely crassam negligentiam in the surveyors, but direct
fraud and falsehood.
The third question is precisely similar to one which
-was considered proper by the Supreme Court of the
State of New-York.' The Court there says, "the
evidenceof the declaration of Rogers (one of the surveyors) was admissible, because, though the plaintiff offered the survey as preliminary proof, yet the
defendants offered it as proof in chief, and the plaintiff had a right to show the contradictory declarations
of Rogers as a witness for the defendant."
The object of the last question was to show that
the conduct of one of the surveyors proceeded from
a Sawyer v. Main( iire Ins. Co. 12 Mass. Rep. 291.
b Haff. v. Mar. Ins. Co. 8 Johns. Rep. 163,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

599

1822.
interested motives, and thus to render more probable
the fraudulent intent imputed to him. It was over- " "
v.
ruled on the ground that better evidence might have TePacific
been produced. But the account sales, which is a Insutance
commercial document, only admissible by a relaxa- cuwpany.
tion of the rules of evidence in regard to foreign
transactions, was not so good evidence, as the res
gesta, which-'he offered to prove. The witness, it is
true, was not present at the 'ale, but he offered to
prove the fact of his recovering payment from the
surveyor, as a purchaser of part of the cargo.
The rule is universal, that fraud may be proved,
and when proved, will vitiate all proceedings. It
must be proved directly, when the party injured by it
has a direct opportunity ; and, therefore, in the ordinary case of misconduct ofjurorsor arbitrators, the
party mustmove to set aside the verdict or award.
Butthis rule does not hold where.the person injured
was not a party t the proceedings, and of course had
no such oppprtunity. Whatever objections a party
to the proceedings might take at the time, a third
person- may take at any time, when the proceedings
are made to bear against him. But it may be said,
that the captain was our agent, and the proceedings
were at his instance. This begs the question ; for if
the loss were such as to authorize the abandonment,
then the captain by relation was the agent of the
underwriters. Besides, the Messrs. Storrs were the
agents of the defendants. Their interference in the
proceedings- is liable to strict scrutiny, and any inpropriety ought to invalidale proceedings conducted
were shown,
under their direction, even though it.
(as it is not) that the Captain connived with them.

600
1822.
'v

Dorr
c.
The Pacific
Insurance
Company.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The case most analogous to this -in common law
proceedings, is that of a jury of view. Now, suppose
it was shewn that such a jury never went on the land
in question, would not their verdict have been set
aside ? The evidence he offered was equivalent to this.
It was not necessary for us to show any agency of
the defendants in the alleged misconduct of the surveyors. The evidence of fraud is necessarily circumstantial. It was enough that they sought to profit
by it.
Mr. Grffin, contra, contended, (I.) that, by the
lex loci contractus, it was the business of the assured
to produce the survey ;, and that it was to be proved,
not by examining the surveyors, but by an authenticated copy of the proceedings. This the plaintiff
did produce, and read in evidence. It was a copy
of all the proceedings. The sentence of condemnation, disconnected with the survey, would be unmeaning. Nor is it any objection, that the survey
is set forth by way of .recital. It would not have
been better authenticated, had it been in Itec verba.
A party producing in evidence, a deed or other instrument, is bound by the recitals.
But the objection to the competency of the evidence was too late. The bill of .exceptions does not
state that it was taken, until the judge charged the
jury ;b but it evidently implies that the objection was,
a Haff v. Mar. Ins. Co., 4 Johns. Rep. 132.
b Russell v. Union Ins. Co., 4 Dal. 423.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1822.

not taken sooner; and the plaintiff recognized the
survey, as being in evidence, by attempting to imT

peach it.

Do
.

The Pacific

2. As to the objections to the rejected testimony, Insurace
Company.
which was offered to show the survey to be incorrect:
The survey was given in evidence by the assured.
Expunge it, and what cause for a total loss appears ?
In that event, the judgment would ncessarily have
been for the defendants. Now, it is a rule that a party
cannot call a witness, and then impeach him. The
reason assigned by Mr. Justice BULLER is, that it
"would enable him to destroy the witness if he
spoke against him, and to make him a good witness
if he spoke for him, with the means in his hands of
destroying the witness if he spoke against him.'"
This rule applies with equal force to impeaching a
document, introduced by the party who seeks to impeach it. In the only case where the assured was
allowed to contradict the survey, it was given in evidence not by hinel, but by the underwriters.b
3. But this survey was a proceeding of a nature
that the law does not allow to be impeached. It
may be likened to an award of arbitrators, being a
tribunal of the parties' own creation ; and you cannot,
under -the general issue, in Qan action at law, impeach
the award of arbitrators, even for partiality or corruption.c The reason assigned for this doctrine is,
that it would be a surprize on the opposite party.
a Bull. .X P. 297. Phillips' Bvid. 232.
b Haffv. Mar. Ins. Co., 8 Johns. Rep. 163. 167.

c Wiles v. Maccarnick, 2 Wils. 148.
VoL. VIM.

76

KAyjd on 1wards, 327-

CASES IN -THE SUPREME COURT

Dorr

And does not this reason emphatically appjy to the
case now under consideration ? Neither can cor-

v.

ruption or partiality be pleaded to an action on the

18C2.

The Pacific

Insurance
Con-nany.

arbitration bond.a Tile only remedy is by a bill in
equity, where all persons implicated may be made
parties. In the present case, the assured might have
applied to the Court of Admiralty, or filed his bill in
Chancery.
Perhaps, however, the survey may be more properly likened to the verdict and judgment of a Court.
The policy contemplates, that the survey is to be a
judicial act, when it requires " a regular survey."
The policy vests jurisdiction in the Court of Admiralty at tle port of necessity : and in the present instance, the agent of the assured called that jurisdiction into activity. It is a settled maxim, that a verdict and judgment cannot be impeached. The sanctified character of a judicial proceeding attaches itself even to a foreign sentence, which is conclusive
as to those facts which it professes to decide ;'and
that, too, even if the sentence is founded on unjust
and piratical principles.c During the French revolution, the.firmness of the English judges was put to
asevere test in respect to the principle now in discussion, and so was that of this Court in the case of
a judgment founded on the Milan, decreeA Had
it been competent, the party aggrieved would doubta Braddick.v. Thompson,
b Coit v. Delaw. Ins. Co.,
c Crondson v. Leonard, 4
d Williams v. Armroyd, 7

8 East. Rep. 344.
I Condy's Marsh. 169. i.
Crunch, 434.
Cranch, '123.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

603

less have been able to prove error, partiality, and
182.
even corruption in manyof these foreign proceedings. ,,/'
Dorr
But the reason why he could not be permitted to do The v.
Pqcifi
this is stated by Mr. Justice JOHNSOn, who says: ImPutca
"Not being at liberty, as it were, to lift the mantle company.
ofjustice cast upon their decrees, it is, as to other tribunals of justice, immaterial what errors it covers;
neither the fallibility of the judge, the perjury of witnesses, nor the- oppression and injustice of natiohs,
will sanction a deviation from this general rule."a
The only inquiry the Court feels itself authorized to
make, is, had the 'foreign tribunal jurisdiction ? And
there is but a single instance where the sentence or
judgment is not conclusive; and that is where the party claiming the benefit of it appears before our Courts
to enforce it.'
So, also, other matters beside
awards, verdicts, and judgments, are held unimpeachable. Thus, evidence was refused, to show that the
official certificate of a regularly appointed land surveyor contained incorrect statements.0
We may perhaps concede another case in which
judicial proceedings may- be impeached viz* where
the judgment is proved to have been obtained by
fraud or unfair practices, by the party attempting to
avail himself of it. But the fraud here meant is not
fraud in the officers of the Court, but in the party.
Nofraud is imputed to the underwriters; and as to
the agents, none can with justice b imputed to
them. Besides, they were only the general agents of
a Rose v Hiniely,.4 Cranch, 512. .ppx.
b Phillips v. Hunter, 2 H. Bl. 410.
c Pollard v. Dwight; 4 Cranch, 421.

60'4

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT

182.
the defendants, and not their agents to perpetrate
-N
1fruds.
As to this survey, they were the agents of
Dorr
Y'.
the assured, and did not at the time know that there
The Pacific
Insurance was any insurance.
Company.
4. As to the other rejected evidence: the first
item of it is the answer to the question, whether the
master authorized the statement relative to the irreparable condition" of the vessel. Her, the assured
calls upon hiscaptain to swear that the statement contained in the petition presented by his proctors to the
Court was untrue. The acts of the attorney in the
course ofjudicial proceedings bind his principal, and
this, even if he have in fact no authority from the
principal. The remedy must be against the attorney.0 Here the authority of the proctors is not disputed. It is only contended that they misconceived
or misrepresented the statement of their client.
All the other items of rejected evidence are liable
to the" objection that they contradict the record. Besides, affidavits of jurymen (and surveyors stand in
the like predicament) cannot be admitted to impeach their verdict.I
As to the answer to the question, whether the
Messrs. Storrs did not direct the master to call on
one of the surveyors, as being a purchaser at the sale
of the cargo, for the price, &c. Beside the consia Anonymous, 1 Salk. 86. I Keb. 89. Reinholdt v. Alberfi,
I Binn. 461. Denton v. Noyes, 6 Johns. Rep. 296.

b Vaise v. Delaval, 1 T. R. 11. JackSon v. Wj iamson,
2 T. R. ? 1. Owen v. Warburton, 4 Bos. 4- Pul. 326. Rogers
v. Rogers, 4 Johns. Rep. 485.

605

OF THE UNITED STATES.

deration that the account of sales was better evidence; the declarations, or directions, of an agent,

18-22.
'~or

V.
except when they are part of the res gesta, are not The Pacific
evidence against the principal. The circumstances, Insrance
too, were irrelevant. 1 o fair presumption flows Company.
from a purchase of part of the cargc.
5. As to the supposed collision between the survey and the finding of the jury, it may be observed,
that there is no necessary collision. The survey
finds the vessel unseaworthy on the I 6th of October.
Thejury find that she was seaworthy when she sailed, on the 9th of September. But ships have the
principle of decay inherent in their constitutions, and
how can the Court, judicially, say that during the
37 days which elapsed between the sailing and survey, the vessel may not have passed by the progress
of decay from a state of'bare seaworthiness to unseaworthiness ? And, even supposing.there is a collision, the finding of the jury must give way to the
survey, because the finding in opposition to the
survey was incorrect. Perhaps the Court ought,
upon the production of the survey, to have directed
the jury to find for the defendants, and to have rendered instanter that judgment which they rendered
afterwards. But was this delay error, and such an
error as the plaintiff can take advantage of ?
The agreement that the survey shall be conclusive, is the voluntary agreement of the parties. Per-sons of full age and sound minds have a right to
make what contracts they please; and to have them
enforced, provided they be not unlawful. Courts

606

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

will nbt inquire whether the clause be reasonable or
expedient or inexpedient. It can be
Sunreasonable,
Dorr
the poliTe Pacific
no more disregarded than any other part of
R.
nsurance cy, such as a warranty. Does the Court ever inquire
ComPany. into the reasonableness of a warranty ?
182-2.

The case cited fron 3 Cranch, 137.a does not
agitate the conclusiveness of the survey. It turned
on the state, of the pleadings. The plea was, that
the vessel was unsound when she sailed on the 24th
of October; and the Court refused to direct the jury
that the survey made on the 26th of November ivas
evidence of that fact. All the other cases admit that
a condemnation for rotteness or unsoundness alone,
is'wcondhisive bar.
The special verdict finds the survey to be a.regular
survey. It is not-to be expected that such surveys
will adopt the very words of the clause. They are
made-abroad, and frequently in a foreign language ;
and such a coiLncidence would be suspicious. It is
sttfficient if it appear from, the whole survey, that
rottenness is the sole ground of condemnation. The
suryey condemns, in strong and decisive terms, and
no cause is intimated but decay. It is true the surveyors find the vessel leaky. But was not rottenness
a sufficient cause for that ? They condemn her "1as
being unsafe and unfit ever to go to sea again."' Now,
there is but one disease in a vessel that is incurable,
that is, rottenness : and there can be no doubt, from
the face of the survey, that the vessel was condemned
for unsoundness. The object of the clause was to
a Mar. Ins. Co. v. Wilson.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

607

have the state of a vessel definitely ascertained where
122.
IDorr
she is broken up, and examined. It is a wise proV.
vision, which has been sanctioned by experience, and ThePacific
-adopted in other States, and ought not to be made a rnsura=ce
dead letter by interpretation.

Mr. H. D. Sedgwick, in reply, stated, that it had
been contended that it was the plaintiff's duty to have
excepted at the trial to the proof of the survey. He
did all that from the natuire of the case could have
been.done. The proof, such as it was, of the survey, was inseparably connected with the preliminary
proof of loss, which he was bound to produce. When
the defendant's counsel claimed the effect now
sought to be given to the supposed survey, the plaintiff resisted, and excepted to the opinion of thejudge
that the decree was sufficient evidence of the survey.
Besides, the plaintiff's guarded, and qualified admission, viz. that the copy produced was a true copy
of the record of the Vice Admiralty Court, shows the
intention of the parties. The defendants were therefore fully put upon their guard, and- would have
produced and proved the survey, if they could have
done so.
An analogy is supposed to exist between the report
of the-surveyors, and the award of arbitrators; it is said
that an award cannot be impeached under the general
jssue; and-that partiality cannot be pleaded to an adminisiration bond. But these remarks, true or false, apply
only to thecommonlawxules of pleading. We are

Company.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

read t admit that the plea ml tielbrecord, which denies theftct of the award, would not lay a proper founDorr
Pacific dation for evidence to show partialityin the arbitrators.
"TheV.
I,,ane But it is enough for our argument, that an award may
C"Ompany. be impeached for the misconduct of the arbitrators;
and whether for this purpose the resort be, as stated
on the other side, to a Court of equity, or whether
the common law tribunals are competent to the purpose, is a matter wholly depending on the municipal
institutions of the country. Some remedy is confessedly provided. Now, here we had none but to
impeach the survey, as we sought to do, on the trial.'
The opposing counsel showed how much he was
pressed. by this consideration, when he referred us to
the Vice Admiralty Court at New-Providence, to
have the proceedings .overhaled in that tribunal.
Such an application would be without a precedent.
A survey is never granted, but upon -the application
of the ship master, founded on present necessity.
The Holofern may now be at the bottom of the ocean,
or if in existence, not at New-Providence; and if she
were there, how could a survey now ascertain what
her state was on the 8th of October, 1819, the time
when the survey was had, and to which the question
relates ?
Supposing that we are wrong in contending that
the recitalsof the decree are not evidence agaipst us,
inasmuch as we produced the decree, still it is competent to us to disprove them. The rule is. merely
that a party shall not impeach the character of his
own witnesses. He may disprove any facts stated
by them. This is the more essential in the case of a
1822.

'~-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

609

1822.
witness produced by necessity, e. g. the subscribing
witness'to.a'de~d or will. The evidence in relation "
Dorr
V.
to the survey was, in this case produced by us of ne-

The Pacific

Insurance

cessit..

But-we are told that if the surveybe struck out ot
the case, there is no ground to support the verdict
for e'ither a total or partial loss. There are these
grounds :-'our polhcy,-a vessel seaworthy when the
voyage commenced,-the 'springing a leak, and being forced- from her course by the violence of the
winds and waves,--stranded in going. into a port of
necessity,--ttere condemned for causes not legally
shown, 'or iot'.fully shown, or falsely stated,-the
voyage '!ost-ship and cargo sold,-and the damages assessed.
It is alvays to be remembered, that we produced
the decree as that which, in point offact, occasioned
the loss, without reference to its being void or valid
in point of law. Suppoke.the decree had shown that
the ship had been libelled and sold for wages, would
this have been' more than primafacie evidence ?
The decree in- question was that of an Instance
Court. .The cases cited against us of the conclusiveness of foreign sentences, are all those of prize
Courts, and the conclusive effect of the adjudication
of these tribunals, is founded on peculiar reasons of
international law., This conclusive effect has been
incautiously extended to cases between insurer and
insuredj where the title of the.property is not drawn
in question, but arises collaterally, and the ablest
a Croudaon v. Leonard, 4 Crunch, 434
VOL. VII.

77

Company.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

610
opm.
Dorr

V.

The Pacific

Insurance
Company.

judges have expressed their regret at this application
of the principle,a and the effort is now to restrict it
within as narrow limits as possible. It is enough
for us, however, that this principle has never been
applied to any but prize jurisdictions. It is against
first principles, that a man should be bound by a decree to which he, is. not a party. The effect sought
to be-given to this decree of ap Instance Court, is
greater than could be claimed for a judgment of a
Court of Westminster Hall, or even for a domestic
judgment, unless.against the same party, and after
full notice.

.1March 2 d.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The material question in this cause arises on the
copstruction of a clause in the policy, expressed in
these words, "and lastly, it is agreed that if the
above vessel, upon a regular survey, should be thereby
declared unseaworthy, by reason of her being unsound or rotten, or incapable of prosecuting her voyage
on account of her being unsound ox rotten," then the
assurers shall not be bound to pay their subscription
on this policy. The special verdict negatives the
proposition of the vessel's being unsound at the time
of her sailing, and it is contended for the plaintiff,
that this neutralizes the condemnation and survey
given in evidence; that contracts of insurance in
their nature have reference to the commencement
a Fisher v. Ogle, 1 Campb. .Xi. P. Rep. 418. Marshall v.
Parker, 2 Campb. 70. Robinson v. Jones, 8 Afass. Rep. 540,

Sawyer v. Maine Fire Insuiance Company, 12 Mass. Rep. 291.

611

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the.rik, -atleast with relation to questions o"sea-

ioo_.

worthihess; and as it is impossible for a sound yesDorr
sel to become rotten in a month, it is argued that the
V.
The Pacific
verdict of the jury Ought to prevail against the evi. Insurance
Company.
dence, ornfluepnce of the condemnation.
But we think otherwise. The words of the contract expressly look forward to a future event, " if
the said vessel, upon a regular survey, should be
thereby declared unseaworthy;" obviously contemplating tWo objects : first, that a state of rottenness
ascertained at any period of the voyage insured shall
be conclusive evidence of original unsoundness;
secondly, that the determination of that fact by means
of a reg~tit r survey should be received as conclusive
evidence between the parties. It is unquestionably
true in the abstract, that a certificate of survey is not
legal evidence; because the examination of the surveyors'themselves would be better. But parties may
by compact adopt that or any other, as the criterion
for deciding on their telative rights; and in the case
before us, the rights of the parties are made to depend
on'the fact of the survey rather -than on the truth of
it. They have chosen a rule of decision for themselves, and we are not to inquire into their motives
or prudence in doing so. Whether the survey in this
instance was duly substantiated, is the next question
which the case presents. And here it becomes altogether unnecessary to decide whether a condemnation, in ordinary cases, carries with it the evidence of
the fact or of the fairness of the survey. For, it must
be observed that the exemplification of the proceedings
in -the Court d Vice Admiralty in New-Providence

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

was produced in evidence by the plaintiff -himself.
He claimed for a total loss, and to support this claim
D'
Dorx
The Pacific
Iv
it became.necessary to show that the vessel wasconInsurance demned and so1d, and the voyage broken up in NPew
Company. Providence. But if thi' exemplification, should bo
1822.

admitted to prove those facts ,alone, without exposing
the causes which led. to them; if the eyes of thejury
were to be shut against every thing but the outside of
the record, non constat, but the vessel may have been
cbndemned for some cause for which the underwriters were not liable, and his case would notihave been
made out. Such subtleties cannot be countenanced.;
the survey was apart of the resgesta, and the plaintiff could not possibly have made out the loss without
introducing.the survey which led to it.
The survey was, therefore, properly in evidence,
and that it was " a regular survey" in the language
of the covenant, is to be deduced from two considerations. First, if there was any irregularity in 'the
survey, it is attributable to the plaintiff's own agents;
for even. tho Storrs, in this case, although the general
agents of the eompany, were voluntarily selected by
the caplain. "But, secondly, the survey bears every
evidence of regularity or authenticity that can reasonably be required. On this subject, the nature of
the contract of insurance casts the parties on the municipal regulations of all the world. Every commercial country has its own regulations on the subject of
surveys. It is propdrly a subject of admiralty jurisdiction ; since mariners and freighters have to claim
the aid .f the admiralty to release them from their
contract in cases of a defect of seaortfiiaoss. A

OF THE UNITED STATES.

613

regular survey-must, therefore, in every instance, be 1822.
such as is known to the laws and customs of the
port in which a vessel happens to be. In this in- T TePacifie
.
stance, both from the jurisdiction assumed by the Insurance
Court, and the known habits of British jurisprudence, Company.
the mode of passing a survey through a Court to
give it authenticity, may well be adjudged a regular
survey according to the laws of the port into which
this vessel was forced. If this be the case, it folloves that tbp exemplification of the proceedings of
that Court is not only admissible evidence, but perhaps the only evidence that could be received of the
survey. And as to the idea of extracting the original
return from the files of that Court, to produce it here,
it will not bear reflection. The same considerations
fullyjustify the Court below in rejecting the evidence
of the captain, offered to rebut the decision of a Court,
and that decisibn, both procured by the plaintiff's own
agent, and produced by himself in evidence.
But it is contended, that though the construction
of the covenant be with the defendants, and the survey be held to be legally before the jury, and "a
regular survey" within the meaning of the policy,
still it is not conclusive against the plaintiff, inasmuch as it certifies the existence of other causes of
loss, besides the decayed state of the vessel.
It is unquestionably true, that the survey must respond to the covenant, and if the vessel be declared
unseaworthy,. for any additional cause, besides her leing, in the language of the policy, ",unsound or rotten," the defeasance, if it may bi. so called, will not
avail the defendant. But what is the case here?

614

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

All the facts to be gathered from the exempliffcation
Dorr
of the condemnation, taking it from the commenceV.
The Pacific ment to the close, are,, that the vessel encountered
Insurance tempestuous weather, that she was forced to put into
Cmy New-Providence, in consequence of springing a
18g2.

leak, that the Captain"1 conceiving her not only unfit to proceed to se4 again in her present state, but altogether unworthy of bbing repaired," libelled her in
the Admiralty, and prayed a warrant of survey upon
her ; upon issuing the warrant, the surveyors proceeded to an examination, and finding the vessel very leaky, stripped off part of her ceiling, and found
her, as they repQrt, "in a very decayed condition."
They thereupon certified her to be "altogether unworthy of being repaired, and that she ought to be
condemned as being unsafe and unfit ever to go to
sea again." Here decay is exhibited exclusively as
the mortal disease, and every thing else 'is either inducement or consequence. A bad vessel might have
made a safe voyage, had she experienced no trying
weather, and a good vessel would have encountered
gales without injury. Springing a leak was the
consequence of that state of decay which weakened
the whole fabric, and her being unworthy of repairi
or unfit to go to sea, was no additional cause of condemnation, but the mode in which her disease produced her destruction. Causes upon similar policies,
and under similar circumstances, have in several ilstances passed in review before the tribunals of this
country, and received decisiolis consouapt to this.
The case between the Marine lnsrawc,iw .Company
of Alexandria and Wilson, decided in this COurt, did

OF THE UNITED STATES.

615

not resemble this in any prominent feature, except
1822.
.that the policy contained
the.
same
clause,
and
the
• Dorr
defence was attempted under the protection of it. But
V.
The Pacific
neither in the evidence nor in the pleadings, did the ITsumnce
defendants bring themselves within the provisions of Company.
the clause.
This Court is therefore of opinion, that there was
no error in the decision of the Court below. But an
inconsiderable omission (made palpable by the briefs
furfished by both parties) having been committed in
copying the record, and which leaves it doubtful in
what form this decision is to be 'certified to the Court
below, this Court will, for the present, order a certiorari to issue, that the correction may be duly made.
Certiorari awarded.

