OF THE UNITED STATES.

divided, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof this Court doth order, that it be certified to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio:
. That the owner of a survey, made in conformity with his entry, and not interfering with any other
person's right, may abandon his survey after it has
been recorded.
2. That the defendant, on the facts stated in the
case, cannot protect himself at law, under the act of
Congress, passed the 2d of. March, 1807, entitledy
"An act to extend the time for locating Virginia
military warrants, for returning surveys thereon
to the office of the Secretary of the Department of
War, and appropriating lands for the use of schools
in the Virginia military reservation, in lieu of those
heretofore appropriated," and the several subsequent
acts on the same subject.

(CommoN.

wA.]

GREEN V. WATKINS.
In a writ of.right, the tenant cannot give in evidence the title of a thirl
person, withwhich he has no privity, unless it be for the purpose of
disproving the demandants seisin.
Therefore, where the demandant proves an actual seisin. by- a.pedii
positio, the tenant cannot be permitted to prove a superior outstanding title, since it does not disprove the demandant's seisin.
Butwhere the demandant relies for proof of seisin, solely-upon a con-

182. .
Green

v.
Wafliov.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

structive actual seisin, in virtue af a patent from the State, of vaca it

Green
V.
Watkins.

lands, the tenant may show that the land has been previously granted by the State, for that devests the title of the State, and disproveg
the demandant's constructive seisin.
A writ of right brings into controversy only the titles of the parties
to
the suit, andis acomparison of those titles; and either party may therefore prove any fact which defeats the title of the other, or shows it
never had a legal exisience, or has been parted with.
The case of Green v. Liter, 8 Granch, 229. commented on, and explained.

.

. 5th.

THIs cause was argued by Mr. Montgomery, for

the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. B. Hardin, for tho
defendant.
Feb. 12th.

Mr. Justice STOnY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The record in this case presents a great variety of
facts, out of which several important questions have
arisen; but as the merits of the cause may, in the
opinion of the Court, be completely disposed of by.
the decision of a single point, the facts which illustrate that point will alone be mentioned.
This is a writ of right, originally brought by the
plaintiff in error, against the defendant in error, to
recover a certain tract of land in Kentucky, described
in the writ. Issue being joined on the mere right
between the parties, the demandant, to sustain his
suit, gave in evidence a patent of the land in question, granted to him by the Commonwealth of Virginia, and dated the 28h day of January, 1784,
and offered proof of the boundary. But he offered no proof, other than his patent, that he was ever
seized of the land in question. According to the de-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-

cision of this Court, in Green v. Liter,'( 8 Cranc,
1822.
229.) a patent of vacant lands of the State con- Green
V.
veys to the grantee a constructive actual seisin, sufwathi-.
the
therefore
and
right;
of
writ
a
ficient to maintain
demandant in this case entitled himself prima facie,
upon this -evidence, to a recovery. To rebut this
conclusion, the tenants offered in evidence, as well
for the purpose of proving title in themselves, as Eo
show that the demandant was never seized of the
premises, certain patents from the Commonweahh
of Virginia, which included the premises, to wit, a
patent to John Lewis and Richard May, dated the
first of June, 1782 ; a patent to Edmund Eggleston,
dated the same day and year ; and a patent to John
Gratton, dated the same day and year; and a patent
to Isham.Watkins of the same date: under which patents the tenants endeavoured to derive by mesne conveyances a good title to themselves in severalty. To
the regularity of the title of the tenants so derived,
the demandant took several objections, which were
overruled by the Court, and the conveyances were
admitted in evidence ; and if, in point of law, the patents so offered in evidence by the tenants were admissible, for the purpose of showing thnt the demandant never bad any constructive actual seisin in the
premises, which was the only seisin on which he
relied, the regularity of these mesne conveyances to
the tenant becomes wholly immaterial, since, if these
patents were still outstanding in strangers, they
would, if admissible, all establish the same defect of
seisin in the demandant. The question, then, which
meets us at the threshhold of this cause is, whether it

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

be competent for the tenants, in a writ of right, where
"Green'
the demandant shows no seisin by a pedis positio,
V.
but relies wholly on a constructive actual seisin, in
Watkins. virtue of a patent of the land, as vacant
land,
Where the derelie to disprove that constructive seisin, by showing
handant
for pcof
sei- that the State had previously granted te
the same ln
land
sin,
soieiyofupon
1822.

a constructive

to other persons, with whom the tenants claim no
privity. In other words, whether the tenants can
State, of vacant
lands, the te- set up title and seisin in' a stranger, to disprove the
kbant may show,
that the lang seisin of the demandant : and, upon the fullest consihas been previusy state,
granted deration, we are all of opinion that they
may. The
by"
thatthe
te
devests for
actual seisin

in

virtue of a patent from 'he

the

te ofthe State
and

the

di

reasoning on which our opinion is foundbd, is this

dopnd- the mise joined in a writ of right, necessarily in-

ant's corstruc-

tive ceisi.

volves the titles of both parties to the suit, and institutes a comparison between them. Itis consequently
the right of each party, to give any fact in evidence,
which destroys the title of the other; for the question in controversy is, which hath the better mere right
to hold' the demanded premises. It has been already
decided by this Court, and is indeed among the best
established doctrines of the common law, that seisin
in deed either by possession of the land, and perception
of profits, or by construction of law, is indispensable
to enable the demandant to maintain his suit. The
tenant may therefore show in his defence, that the
demandant had no such actual seisin ; for the seisin
of the freehold by the tenant, which is admitted by
the bringing of the suit against him, is a sufficient title for the tenant, until the demandant can show a
better title. The tenant may thus defeat the demandant, by pr6ving that he never had any such seisin in
deed ; or if he once had it. that he has parted with

OF THE UNITED STATES.

his whole estate, by a conveyance competent to con1822.
vey, and actually conveying it.
Green
To apply this doctrine to the present case. The
V.
demandant here relies, not on a seisin in deed, by a Watkis
pedis positio, but on a seisin in deed by construction
of law, in virtue of his patent. If the land included
in the grant belonged, at the time of the conveyance,
to the State, and was vacant, upon the principles already asserted by this Court, it conveyed, by operation of law, a seisin in deed to the demandant. But
if the State- had already granted the land by a prior
patent, it was already, upon the same principles, in
the adverse seisin of another grantee, and, consequently, the patent to the demandant could not convey either title or seisin. It is, therefore, manifest,
that for this purpose, to disprove the seisin of the demandant, the tenants in this case were entitled to
introduce the four patents above stated, (even if they
failed to establish a privity of estate in themselves,)
since these patents were all prior to that of the dewandant, included the land, and, if admitted, would
show, that the seisin in deed, by mere construction
of law upon the grant of his patent, never had a real
existence.
or---42, M:
It has been supposed, however, at the bar, that a a",.tathe case of Green v, Liter establishes a different doe- ond xp1in t.
trine on this point. In our opinion, that case does
not justify any such conclusion ; and certainly was
not understood by the Court to require it. It will
be recollected, that the case of Green v. Liter came
before this Court upon a division of opinion of the
Judges of the Circuit Court upon certain questions

'CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Green

n.
Watins.

of law, stated in the record. To those questions, in
the form in. which they were stated, aind to those
questions only, could the opinion of this Court pro-

perly extend.

In answer to the fifth question, which
involved the inquiry, whether actual seisin, pr, as it
is commonly expressed, seisin in deed, is necessary
to muaintain a writ of right, and.whether a patent
from the State, of its vacant lands, conferred, by construction of law, a seisin in deed to the grantee, this
Court expressed an unhesitating opinion in the affirmative on both points. It follows, therefore, by
necessary inference from this doctrine, that the tenant
may disprove the demandants seisin in deed by any
evidence competent for this purpose; and if he succeeds in establishing the fact, the demandant must
fail in his suit. That the proof of a prior patnt of
the same lands to another person would be sufficient
for this purpose, in a case where the demandant relied exclusively upon a constructive seisin in deed, in
virtue of the grant of his patent, has been already
asserted. The eighth question propounded to the
Court, in Green v. Liter, is that, however, upon
which the difficulty at the bar has arisen. It is in
these words: "Can the defendant defend himself
by an older and better existing title than the domandants in a third person ?". Now, it is material to
consider, thatthis question does not purport to inquire
whether the tenant may disprove the defendant's seisin in a writ of right; nor does it purport to inquire
whether the tenant may not show that the demandant has no title, or a title defective in point of legal
operation. Itsupposes- that the demandatit has a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

title _per se, sufficient for a recovery, and then asks if
a better title may be shown in a third person to defeat
such recovery. The answer of the Court is in the
following words: "We are of opinion that a bettersubsistng adverse title in a third person is no defence
in a writ of right. That writ brings into controversy only the mere rights of the parties to the suit."
It is most manifest, that in this answer the Court proceed upon the supposition that the demandant has,
prima fade, a good title, upon which he may maintain his suit; and that he has established a seisin
sufficient, in point of law, to entitle him to a recovery.
And the point then is, whether a superior adverse
title-and seisin in a stranger can be given in evidence
to dispute such recovery. The very reason assigned
against the admission of such evidence shows the
understanding of the Court to be precisely what we
now assert. It cannot be admitted, because a writ
of right does not bring into controversy the right of
the demandant as against all the world, but the mere
right of the parties to the suit. But it does bring
into controversy the mere right between these parties; and if so, it, by consequence, authorizes either
party to establish, by evidence, that the other has no
right whatsoever in the demanded premises ; or that
his mere right is inferior to that set up against him.
If, in the case at bar, the demandant had established an actual seisin by occupation of the land,
and taking the esplees, the case would then have presented precisely the point which was understood to
be presented in Green v.Liter; and from the opinion
VOL. VIT.

5

1822.
Green

v.
Watwns.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182t,.
Green

v.

Watkins.

given in that case, on that point, there is not the
slightest inclination in this Court to depart.

We

think that the decision in the present case may well

.be made upon the principles which have been already expounded, without, in any degree, breaking
in upon the doctrines of that case.
If we are right in this view of the subject, it is
unnecessary to enter into a minute examination of
the points made in the Court below, since the evidence which was objected to, was, under the circumstances of the case, clearly admissible, for the purpose of disproving the seisin of the demandant.
As to the instructions prayed for by the demandant, in the close of the evidence, and refused by the
Court, and as to the instructions actually given by
the Court, to the jury, it does seem n( civssary to pass
them in minute review. Several of them turn altogether upon the deduction of title by the tenant,
from the original patentee, whose patents they set
up in defence. And as to the claims, they may be
disposed of by the single remark, that no error has
been shown by them, in the argument here, and no
error is perceived by the Court.
Judgment affirmed.

