248

CASES IN THE SUPRtEME COURT

182t.
B
Blunt's
Lessee.

Ymb.

Company, and contribute with the othermembers
-thereof,inmaking good what they may lose in consequence of the demands of individuals, who stand in
the predicament of Mrs. Gilman, for their proportion
of the indemnity actually awarded to those whosp
certificates of land on the New-England Company
were adjudged to be valid.
An objection was made by the respondent to the
want of parties; but the conclusion to which the
Court has come renders it unnecessary to give any
opinion on this point. The Court, however, would
have hesitated in making any decree -against Mr.
Jackson in the absence of his principals in whose favour the award was made, and who ought, if its merits
were examinable, to have been afforded an opportunity of vindicating the giounds on which it was made.
It is the judgment of this Court, that the decree of
the Circuit Court dismissing the appellants' bill, be
affirmed with costs.
Decree affirmed with costs.

(LoCAL LAW.]

BLUNT'S

Lessee v. SMITH and Others.,

The decision of the Court below, granting or refusing a motion for a
new trial, is not matter for which a writ of error lies to this Couit.
In Kentucky and Virginia the rule is, that a Court of common law cannot look beyond the patent; but in Tennessee the Courts of law, under their construction of the land laws of North Carolina, permit tho
parties in an ejectment to go back to the original entry, and connect
the patent with it.

DF THE UNITED ,STATES.

249

This construction is not limited to a comparison of the dates of the entries,1,ut admits of an inquiry into their legal effect as they stand in

1822.

relation to each other.
The statutes of North Carolina, which have been construed to justify a
of title,
Court of law in considering the entry as the commencement
are applicable t6 military warrants as well as other titles.
By the decisions of the Courts of Tennessee, the validity ofsurveys does
not depend oh the will or directions of claimants; and though the
mistakes of surveyors may be corrected, they cannot be corrected so
as to injure a subsequent adjoining enterer.
The laws of North Carolina do not require that an entry should express
therwater courses and remarkable places which are remote, but
-onlythose which are contiguous, and which may assist in designating
-the land intended to be acquired.
Yotoriey is not essential to the, validity of an entry in Tennessee, as it
.is in Kentucky. The statute of Virginia, which is the land law of
Kentucky, requires that entries shall be so special and certain that
any subsequent locator may know how to appropriate the adjacent re-

Blunt's
Lessee
V.

siduum. But the land law of North Carolina contains no such provision, and the doctrine which requires notoriety as well as identily, has
-neverbeen received in Tennessee.

to the Circuit Court of West Tennessee.
This was an action of ejectment, brought by the
plaintiff in error, in the Circuit Court, against the
defendants in error, to recover the possession of lands
in the State of Tennessee. The title of the plaintiff,
as spread upon the record, originated idi an entry
made on the 17th of March, 1785, in the following
ERROR

words: " General Sumner enters 12,000 acres of

land, lying east of the upper south road, between the
head of Mile Creek, Little Harpeth, and Stewart's
Creek, and on the waters of some of the aforementioned creeks, including some deadened trees, markcd 1. F." The deadened trees were never found. On
this entry a patent was issued by the State of North
Carolina, on the 27th day of April, 1793, to which
VOL. VJI

32

Smith.

250'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

isn2.

was attached a platt and certificate of survey purport-

But
Blunt's

iug to be made by Thomas Malloy, a deputy surveyor, on the 20th of November, 1786.
The defendants claimed under a patent issued to
William Tyrrell, assignee, on the 10th of April, 1797.
This grant was founded on an entry made in the
name of John Gee, on the 1st of June, 178b, in the
following words: "John Gee, heir of Captain James
Gee, enters three thousand eight hundred and forty

Lessee
1.

Smth.

acres of land, lying and adjoining the northern boundary of Brigadier 'General Jethro Sumner, running
west along his line for complement."
The defendants gave in evidence the record of a
former trial in ejectment for the same land, in which
the verdict and judgment were against the plaintiffs,
pjid the testimony of Burkley Pollock, a Witness examined at that trial, who is since dead, and who
swore that he made the survey for General Sumner
before Gee's entry was made. A copy of the platt
and certificate of survey made by Pollock, and recorded in the Secretary's office of North Carolina,
properly authenticated, was also given in evidence.
By the platt and certificate of survey, it appears that
the land of Sumner was laid off by Pollock, in a parallelogram, the base or first line of which extend.
ing from west to east, was 1292 poles, and the side
lines 1486 poles. The patent which was is.ued on
the platt and certificate returned by Malloy, had the
same base line, but the side line is extended to 1737
poles, and the survey is said to include 2026 acres,
belonging to Lieutenant Thomas Pastedbr.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Tfie defendants also gave in evidence copies of a
petition presented to the General Assembly of North
Carolina, at their session held in November, 1786, by
the guardian of the plaintiff, praying that a separate
warrantmight be issue.d to the heirs of-General Sumner for the quintity of land included in his survey to
which Lieutenant Pasteur had a prior title, and the,
proceedings of the legislature, granting the prayer of
the petition. The defendants also gave in evidence
acertified copy of a certificate granted by the Commissioners of West Tennessee to the heirs of General
Sumner, for so much land as was equal to the quantity lost by the prior title of Lieutenant Pasteur, and
a copy of the-testimony. on which this certificate was
founded.
To the -admission of all these copies, it is stated in
the bill of exceptions the plaintiff's counsel objected,
but his objections were overruled, and the papers
were read.
Some testimony was offered by the defendants, to
prove that in.the survey of Sumner's land by Pollock, a second as well as the first line was run, and
corner trees marked at the end of that line, so as to
fix the northern boundary of Sumner's land; but
other testimony was offered-by the plaintiff to prove
thaL only the first linei which established the southern boundary, was run.
After the testimony was closed, the counsel for the
plaintiff moved the Court to instruct the jury, "that
they should not regard the said copies from the Secretary's office of North Carolina, and of the proceedings before the Commissioners of West Tennessee as

1822.
Blunt's

Lessee
SjiJL

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

having any effect in the said cause; and that the entry "in the name of Gee, on which the grant to Tyr"-=
33lunt's
rel purported to be founded, could not be located as a
Lessee
V.ih special entry to any place, or if to any place, only to
the northern boundary of Sumner's land on which the
grant was founded, as granted and described in the
platt and certificate ;" but the judge refused so to instruct the jury, but infbrmed them that all said documents, except the proceedings before the Commissioners, %hich should have no weight in the cause, should
be considered as testimony by them: and that the platt
and certificate made by Pollock, if he marked no
uxore of the corners and lines of Sumner's tract, but
the southern boundary, and south east-corner and
south-west corner, would show, by calculation, where
the northern boundary of his -tract should be according to said platt, and locate said Sumner's entry and
land to the south of that line, and fix said entry in
the name of Gee to the north of that line, and make
it special from the date of the survey made by Pollock for that place; and that the grant to Tyrrel, although founded on a survey made long after the
grant to Sumner was issued, should relate back to the
date of said entry, and give a good title to those holding under the said grant to the land north of the north
boundary as represented in the platt, &c. made by
Pollock, against the title derived from Sumner's
grant and entry ; and that Sumner's grant should be
considered as made on a removed warrant, for all the
land north of what is represented in said platt, inad.
by Pollock, as his northern boundary."
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Gaston, for the plaintiff in error, argued, that

_M

18V.

the practice which prevails in the State of Tennese
see, ot pe-mitting.a younger to compete with an eland
elder
the
of
by
reason
der grantee in ejectment,
better entry of such younger grantee, was admitted F. 25t&.
in the Tennessee adjudications to be an usurpation
on the p--t of the Courts of law introduced since the
year 17:18, and now too long established to be questioned.a All agree thai this innovation is not to be
carried beyond its ascertained limits.' To this well
meant but impolitic assumption of power in their
Courts of Law is ascribed, with one voice, the fatal
uncertainty A :he Tennessee land laws.F The eldest graur is esteemed conclusive evidence of title
except in the single case of an elder legal entry.'
And every species of evidence to make a younger
compete with an elder grant, shall be rejected -except the entry.e The acts of N. Carolina of 1786,
c. 20.and 1787, c. 23. are the only statutes authorizing a Court of law to go beyond the grant in the examination of land claims, and under these the Courts
heve gone far enough, to say the least of it, when
they look to the entry. f Under these statutes, declaring an elder grant founded on a younger entry
a Wilson v. Kilcannon, 1 Tenn. Rep. 205.
b I Tenn. Rep. 409. 411. 2 Tenn.Rep. 153, 154. 1 Cooke's
Rep. 32. 5 Hayw. Rep. 402.
c 2. Tenn. Rep. 17.5 cayw. 102. Polk's Lessee v. Wendel,
5 Wheat. Rep. 302.
d .1 Cooke's Rep, 133.
e Reid v. Buford, I Tenn. Rep. 420.
f Lester v. Craig, 1 Cooke"s Rep. 485. 487.

CASES IN THE SUPAEME COURT

254
1822.

7

B l nt's
Lessee
V.

Smith.

void, the Tennessee Courts have decided that the
of entries is examinable at law, and that a
priority
.
junior patent founded on a prior entry shall prevail
in an action of ejectment against a senior patent
founded on a junior entry; but this doctrine has never been extended beyond the.cases which have been
construed to be within the express purview of these
statutes.4
It must be conceded, !hat in some of the Tennessee.decisions military grants have been regarded as
liable to the application, of the same rule of preference from priority of entry or locations, as had
been established in cases of grants founded on ordinary entries. It is difficult to say, when an error
shall be deemed too inveterate to be corrected. Perhaps this may be the case with respect to the application of this rule to military grants. If it be not,
nothing can be more easy than to show, that admitting the rule to be correct, military grants ought not
to be brought within the sphere of its operation.
The act of 1777, c. 1. opened a land office in North
Carolina for the sale of vacant and 'unappropriated
lands. The 4th and 5th sections prescribe as
terms and conditions of the sale, payment by the
purchaser of the required price, and a description in
writing specifying the quantity and defining the
situation of the laud which he buys. This land office
was. shut by the act of 1781, c. 7. It was again
opened by the act of 1783, c. 2. entitled "An act
for opening the land office, for the redemption of
a Robinson v. Campbell, 3-Wheat.o-Rep. 221.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

specie' and other certificates and discharging the arrears due to the army." The 10th and IIth sections
of this act require that the individual wishing to enter a claim for vacant land, shall pay the price of it
to the entry taker, and deliver a writing signed with
his name, setting forth where the land shall be situated; and that the entry taker shall endorse this
written claim (or location) with the name of the
claimant and record it in his entry-book, and in due
time shall issue to the surveyor a warrant commanding him to survey for the claimant the land described in such entry. When the act of 1777 was passed,
an appropriation of lands as a retribution for military service had not been contemplated, and the act of
178Mi, above referred to, expressly excepts from entry
(sec. 12.) all lands lying within the bounds reserved for the officers and soldiers of the Continental
line. The act of 1779, c. 6, which was also passed
before an appropriation of lands for military services
directs the surveyor, where entries interfere, (sec. 6.)
to survey the eldest entry first. The act of 1783,
above referred to, under which military lands are forbidden to be entered, provides that all the warrants
for entries shall be delivered by the entry taker to
the surveyor on certain prescribed days, and that the
surveyor shall proceed in his surveys in the order of
the numbers and dates of the entries. All these enactments proc.eed upon the obvious principle that the
first person who has bought and paid for any particular tract of land shall be entitled to a grant for it.
The act of 1786, c. 20. and the act of 1787,
c.- 23. "from which alone the Courts of law
claim an authority to go beyond the grant in

20
1822.
Blunt%

Ieec

smit.

26

CASES IN THE- SUPREME COURT

the examination of land claims, and beyond the
' Mlunt'a' .express purview whereof this doctrine ought not
Lessee
to be -carried, ' 'a are each of them, in title-in preamV.
Smith.
ble--in express enactment, definitively restricted, in
this respect, to entries of vacant and unappropriated
lands under the acts of 1777 and 1783.
By an act of Assembly of.May 1780, referred to
in the 7th section of the act of 1782, a certain tract of
country was -reserved to be apropriated. to the purpose of reivarding the bravery and zeal of the Continental officers and- soldiers in the .service of the
state of N. Carolina. By the act of 1782, c. 3. entitled, "An act for the relief of the officers and soldiers
of the Continental line, and for other purposes," it is
enacted that these officers and soldiers shall severally
have such a number of acres of land, varying according to rank in a certain ratio specified in the act,
and preliminary measures are directed to be taken
for exploring and laying off the lands out of which
this military bounty, or rather military debt, shall
be satisfied.
By the act of 1783, c. 3, entitled, "An act to amend the last mentioned act,"
it is declared that the persons entitled to military grants under the act referred to shall, on
application to the Secretary of State, receive from
him warrants of survey for such quantities of land
as they are respectively entitled to " within the limits. of the lands reserved for the officers and soldiers," directed to a surveyor appointed for thaf special purpose. No previous entry is required from a
1822.

a 3 Wheat..Rep. 221

OF THE UNITED STATES.

military claimant, and the warrant of survey is reof• the territoiy
stricted only by-the boundaries
•
•.Blunt's set
apart for the satisfaction of military. claims. In endeavouring to pay the debt.of gratitude due to her
brave defenders, the State -recognizes no priority of
merit among- them.- The consideration for these
grants has been received from all, and from all at the,
same-time. There is' no first or second purchaser
among them, nor has there been a purchase of any
particular lands, but only of specified quantities of
land. To prevent disputes -which might arise between -two or more -of them wishing to have their
warrants satisfied at the same place, only two provisions are made : one that the choice shall be decided by lot, and the other, that he who has assented
to his brother soldier's location, shall not afterwards
interfere with it. No enactment was ever made
that the warrants of survey should all be delivered at
prescribed times, nor that they should be surveyed
in the order of their dates or numbers, nor that grants
founded on younger warrants should be void. Until
the act of sess. I. of 1784, c. 15., -entitled an act to
amend the act of 1782, c. 3., no mode whatever
lhad been provided by which a memorandum of'the
military locations should be preserved. That act
directed that the surveyor to whom the military
warrants were directed should keep a book containing a minute.of the name of the military claimantnumber of his- location-number of his warrant, of
the quantity of acres, date, and description of his
location. The necessity of some such memorial, as
a check upon the officers of government and prevenVor. VIL

33

257
1822.
Lessec
V_.
suth.

268
1822.
"

Blunt~s

Lessee
V.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tive of fraud, is too manifest to require any other
reason to .be given for this statutory provision. But
to declare that because such statutory provision is
made, that, therefore, the posite and special enactments which have been made in regard to entries in
the general land office, shall obtain in these locations, and that enactments thereafter to be made, restricted in terms to the former, shall be law also in
regard to the latter, may pass for any thing as well
as for judicial exposition.
If, however, this Court should consider such judicial exposition as established, the inquiry then distinctly presents itself, can Tyrrel's grant claim a
preference over Sumner's grant, to which it is
younger, by reason of Gee's better entry ? The entry to which is allowed the extraordinary property
of causing the grant subsequently issued to have
legal operation from the date of the entry, is on all
hands required to be a "1special entry." It has been
found a difficuh matter to define this " specialty"
with precision. T he circumstances which make up
this specialty are either such as are fitted to identify
the entry, or to give it notoriety ; and an entry is not
now acknowledged as a special entry unless notoriety and identity both concur.a In regard to the identity of an entry, this must'depend on facts existing at
the date of the entry, and appearing on its face, or
to be collected by plain inference from those which
do appear on its face. The notoriety of an entry is
a different affair. Occurrences happening after an
See Dallam's Lessee v. Breckenridge, Cook's.Rep. 157.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

entry has been made may render it very notorious,
although but little known before. But no subsequent occurrences can have any effect upon the identity of an entry. The entry is a matter of record
accessible to every individual. It ought to be so definite, that all-who are acquainted with the country
may be enabled,.on an examination of it, to ascertain where it lies, and to avoid interference with it."
No act less authentic in its nature, such as a survey
-no act which is not a matter of record, however
notorious it may be, is considered as giving this legal
notification.' In North-Carolina and Tennessee, no
record is made of surveys. The surveyor returns
two platts to the Secretary's office, one of which is
kept thereiand the other appended to the grant. As
every individual has it in his power to procure
knowledge of an entry, he is presumed to have such
knowledge, and if he locate land which has been be-fore entered, he is in the condition of a purchaser
with notice of a prior equitable right, affected with
a legal fraud, and trustee for the equitable owner.
Land titles must rest on general principles, and the
entry, special on its face, and made of record, is not
to be supplied by other evidence of an inferior character, but which might be thought reasonably equivalent.c It would be an unwarrantable, and a most
alarming extension of a principle, already carried too
far, to permit an entry originally wandering to bea Anderson v. Cannon, 1 Cooke's Rep. 30, 31.
b b. 32, 33.
I Cranch, 99.

3 Haywv. 186. 215. 217.

e Wilson v. Mason, 1b.

Wilson v. Mason,

259
1822.
Nunes

Lessen
V.

smitb.

260
1822.
]Blunt's

Lessee
V.

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

come fixed, originally vague to become specific, by
matter 'ex postfacto, and from the time of this change
of character to give it the efficacy of retracting the
grant to itself. The entry must, on its face, be fixed
to some spot.a It is foreign from the present inquiry
to examine under what circumstances a defect of
notoriety in an entry, always sufficiently definite,
may be remedied by subsequent occurrences, and
what. shall be the operation of such entry after it
becomes notorious.b
Gee's entry is for 3,840 acres adjoining the northem boundary of "1General Sumner, and running
west along his line for complement." It contains
no other words of description, and of course can
only be identified by those. It calls for the northern
boundary of General Sumner's-what? The plaintiff contends, of General Sumner's enfry. Sumner's
entry, and Gee's entry, are records of the same office, and in the same book. To this book every
locator has a right to recur for the purpose of ascertaining where he may procure lands without interference with prior appropriations. A locator reads
Sumner's entry, dated the 17th of March, 1785, and
on the next page he meets with Gee's, dated the 1st
of June, 1785, containing no other description than
that it adjoins Sumner's northern boundary. It is
impossible but that he should understand the latter
entry as entirely depending on the former. There
a 1 Tenn. Rep. 407. 411, 412. Id. 505. 607.
b Simm's Lessee v. Dickson, I Cooke's Rep. 141.
Trimble, 1 Cooke's Rep. 87, 288.

Baird v.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is no intimation to him that a survey has been made
for its northern bounof Sumner's entry. Calling ~Blunt's
dary, and to run west along that line gives no such
hint, for all the military entries are required "to be
run out at the four cardin'al points of the compass
either in a square or an oblong " Act of 1784, c.
15. see. S.

If there has been such a survey he has

not the means of.seeing it-is uninstructed where to
look for it. He is not apprised of the names of
those who made it, or from whori he may learn
what lines of it W#ere run. lie must understand the
refereiice in Gee's entry as made to that which is
accessible -to him-which is spread before his eyesto General Sumner's entry. As the object of a special entry is to enable those who examine it to ascertain where it lies, the information which such an
entry necessarily conveys to the examiner must be
supposed to be the information which the enterer
intended to convey. Had Sumner's entry been on
its face special, and fixed to a particular spot, it is
impossible to deny but that Gee's entry by these
words of reference would have been equally definite
and special. And if a survey had been made of
Sumner's entry varying from its precise requisition,
Gee's entry would still have remained fixed to the
spot which thp record indicated-would not have
followed Sumner's survey in its wanderings, nor
lost its claims to specialty and certainty.
To suppose Gee's entry to refer to the northern
boundary of -Sumner's survey, as ascertained by
Pollock's plan and certificate, is full of difficulties.
It presumes that such survey had then certainly been

1822.
V'
Lessee

smith.

262

CASES IN TH9 SUtWEME COURT

1822.
made, and platt and certificate returned. It pre- Blunt's,, sumes that these, or some of these, were known ;to
Lessee
Gee. It presumes that this platt and certificate, and
Vsurvey, were so notorious that every subsequent loSmith.
cator would understand words of referenpa in a
book of entries, as applying not to an entry but to
a survey. Yet there is nothing to show that this alleged survey ever became notorious, even to this day.
There is nothing to prove that Gee had any knowledge of this survey, or that the platt had, at the date
of his entry, found its wayinto the Secretary's office.
Nor is there any testimony to show that any survey
had then been made except the date of Pollock's
certificate, a paper of very questionable character,
produced under circumstances of great suspicion,
and emanating from one who seems destitute of all
claims to credit. The supposition that the words in
Gee's entry refer to Pollock's platt takes for granted
facts not proved; accordingly we find the Court instructing the jury that this platt, if Pollock marked
but one line, C1would show" where, by calculation,
the northern boundary of Sumner's tract should be
according to that platt-would make Gee's entry special from the date of Pollocks survey, and would
cause Tyrrels grant to relate back to the date of
Gee's entry." Thus the Court undertook to pronounce that Gee's entry was subsequent to the
marking of one of Sumner's lines by Pollock, and
to the legal completion of Pollock's survey. It is
not necessary, and, perhaps, it is not practicable, to
clear up the mystery which Pollock's platt throws
over this transaction. But it would seem probablo

OF THE UNITED STATES.

that Pollock, having made out a platt, presented it to
his immediate principal, Malloy, and that Malloy,
kniowing of its interference with Lieutenant Pasteur's prior right, instead of adopting this platt as his
ownl, made a new platt and certificate, extending the
second and fourth lines sufficiently far to comprehend the twelve thousand acres exclusive of Pasteur's land. Malloy's platt and certificate were duly
returned to the office, for on them the grant actually
issued ; and it is likely that when he returned them
he gave the information to Armstrong that Pollock
was, in fact, to be credited for -the work to which
Malloy's name appeared, as it is otherwise unaccountable that any explanation to that effept should
have been either-.given or required. Pollock had,
no doubt, in conformity to the ordinary requisias of
the law, prepared two platts. The one not delivered
to Malloy afterwards found its way (at what time,
or by what means, it is impossible to say) into the
Secretary's office. Is it unfair to conclude that it
was not there in 1793, or otherwise Sumner's grant
would have conformed to it? The grossest frauds
and irregularities have taken place in the Military
Land Othce of North Carolina. These have been
proclaimed by the public statutes of the State, (Acts
of 1797, c. 245. and 1798, c. 14.) Pollock, whose
certificate has caused all this perplexity, was examined as a witness for the defendants on a former
occasion, to invalidate the plaintiff's claim. He
swore to the running of Sumner's second line, and
the marking of the third corner agreeably to this
place. Munifee proved that Pollock did not run

265
1822.
Blunt's

Lesee
V.
smith.

CASES IN TH9 SUPREME COURT

264
1822.
%

%

Blunt's

Lessee
Smith.

the second line, nor mark the third corner. . All the
witnesses concurred that not a marked tree was to
be found after leaving Sumner's first line ; and the
demonstration of nature was given to prove the false-,
hood of his allegation about the third corner. There
was no evidence to fix the actual running of Sumner's first line more precisely than to the year f785
or 1786. Under all these circumstances, was it not,
at least, a matter of doubt whether Pollock's survey,
had been made-had been ratified by his superior-,
had been filed in the office before the 1st of June,
1785 ? And if the construction of Gee's entry, given
by the Circuit Court, presupposed the existence of
facts not ascertained, then an important inquiry was
decided by the Court, which belonged exclusively to
the cognisance of the jury.
If Gee's entry rests its claim to certainty upon its
reference to Sumner's entry, it can advance no higher
pretension than Sumner's to be regarded as a special
entry. No evidence having been given of the deadened trees marked I. J., Sumner's entry is thus far
fixed, "on the east side of the upper south road, between the heads of Mill Creek, Little Harpeth, and
Stewart's Creek, and on the waters of some of them,")
and Gee's is thus far fixed "to adjoin Sumner's on
the north." If the first be vague, so is the second,
"1fixed in an orb that flies." If the first be sufficiently special, it will apply, as well to that part of the
land covered by both grants, as to that covered by
Sumner's, and not comprehended within Tyrrcl's.
Indeed, to have surveyed Sumner's a little firther
to the north and west. so as to cause it to take in

265

OF TIJE UNITED STATES

more of the land covered by Tyrrel's grant, would
have more nearly conformed to the entry than does
the survey on which the grant has issued.
Should it be objected on the part of the defendant,
that Sumner's grant issued on a second survey after
a former survey made and returned, the objection
will.avail them nothing. Where the State has authorized the granting of lands, and a grant is made,
such grant, notwithstanding any irregularities, is
good against future claims.a A survey on which a
grant has not issued, is no estoppel to another survey.'
If a surveyor mistake in running out land, it is reasonable that he may correct that mistake before a
grant issues, so that the rights of-innocent third persons be not thereby injured.c Unless Gee's entry is
identified to the land excluded from the first, and
comprehended within the second survey, it cannot be
pretended that Gee's rights were injured by such second survey. The survey on Gee's entry was made in
1796, ten years after the survey on which Sumner's
grant was founded, and three years after Sumner's
grant had issued; and the surveyor of Gee's entry
had with him on the survey a platt of Sumner's tract
representing the courses and distances as specified in
the platt annexed to Sumner's grant.
Fiom some of the facts mentioned in the bill of
exceptions, it might be supposed that the parties intended to raise the question of the statute of limita-ions. It is belived, however, that is a question on
a 1 Tenn. Rep. 322.

b White v. Crocket, 3 Hayw. 183. 181.
c I Tenn. Rep. 6.
VOL. VII.
4

I 8e.
Blunt's

Lesee
S.

W26,
1822.
13lunt's

Lesse
V.

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

which this Court will not give an opinion. The statute of Westminster, the 2d, 13 Edw. . ch. 31. which
gave the remedy of a bill of exceptions, emphatically confines the attention of the Court of Errors
to the exception taken, "and if the justice cannot
deny his seal, they shall proceed tojudgment, according to the same exception as it ought to be allowed
or disallowed." It does not appear that any opinion
was given in the Circuit Court on the statute of limitations, or that it came into consideration there. The
instruction to thejury was founded solely on the supposed relation of Tyrrel's grant to the date of Gee's
entry, so as to overreach Sumner's prior grant. A
bill of exceptions does not draw the whole matter
into examination, but only the points to which it is
taken, and of course must be regarded as stating
such facts only as will enable the revising Court to
judge of the matter excepted to.a It may not be
amiss however, to state, that on this quesiion as presented by the facts appearing on the bill of excep.
tions, the plaintiff claims to be entitled to recover.
The 'Tennessee adjudications have settled that persons "beyond seas," have eight years after returning
to the State, within which to make their entry, or
bring their writ ;b and this Court has decided that the
words " beyond seas," are equivalent to "without the
limits of the State.17c In this case it is explicitly stated that the lessor of the plaintiff never was within
the limits of the State of Tennessee.
a Bridgman & Holt, Show. Parl. Cases, 120. Bull, N. P. 316.
Frier v. Jackson, 8 Johns. Rep. 495.
b 2 Tenn. Rep. 341.

c Murray v. Baker, 3 WHeat. Rep. 541.

267

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. White, for the defendants in error, stated that
182n.
before a discussion of the main question presented Blut's~
by this record, the attention of the Court ought to L.esee
Vr.
be directed to the only bill of exceptions which was Smith.
either tendered in, or signed by the Circuit Court.
By that it would appear, that no exception whatever
was taken to the instructions given to th~jury, at any
time before the verdict was rendered. If the plaintiff
was dissatisfied with the charge, that dissatisfaction
oughtto have been expressed immediately; remaining

'7j

silent until the rendition of the verdict was a waiver

of any exception, which might have availed the party if it had been taken immediately. The first error assigned, as to the charge, is upon a motion for
a new trial, after the refusal of which, the bill of exceptions was tendered and signed. Whether the
Court decided correctly or not in refusing the new
trial, is a point which this Court- will not revise, as
has been so well settled, that it would only be a
waste of time to refer to decisions in support of this
statement
If these preliminary objections are well taken,
there is no point brought here, for examinatiou,
which can admit of any doubt.
It is to be regretted, that, from the bill of exceptions, we are not at liberty to examine the question,
relative to the statute of limitations.' It is sufficient
to say that only one opinion could be entertained
upon it, if it was fairly discussed.
But as it is possible that we may be mistaken in
Bull. N. P. 115.

268
1822.

%now
Bluntys
Leee

sat.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

supposing that the charge of the judge below is not
before this Court. Should that be the case, it
is submitted that the charge was strictly correct.
The line E. F., represented on platt No. 3. must be
considered as between these parti6s the northern
boundary of Sumner: (1.) Because the proof
shows satisfactorily, that in May, 1785, Sumner
caused his entry to be surveyed by Pollock: that
the corner at A. was made, the lines A. B. and B.
E. were then run, and these three corners marked.
A platt and certificate of this survey was made, and
with the warrant, returned to the Secretary's office.
The moment these things were done, the surveyor
was, as to this transaction,funtdus officio, the boundaries of Sumner's 12,000 acres were fixed, and he
who then made an entry, calling to adjoin him on the
north, can never be disturbed by aiiy after act of
others, changing Sumner's boundary. The defendant's entry was made on the first day of June, 1785,
and his grant is to be viewed as if issued on that day
because the entry on which it it issued is special.
The plaintiff is not now at liberty to say, the fact
is not as I have stated ; although there is a contrariety of evidence upon the fact, whether the line B. E.
was run by Pollock, yet as the plaintiff excepted to
the charge, the fact is to be taken most strongly
against him2a But if this be not so, still it is insisted
that no man can doubt the running the line A, B.
and marking those two corners by Pollock, an authorized surveyor, in May 1785. This line is now, and
a Bull. XVP. 117.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
has at all times been, the southern boundary of Sumner's tract. It is therefore contended, (2.) That on the
1st ofJune,1785, when the entry of Gee was made, he
had a right to include in it any land which Sumner's
entry did not notify him was included within Sumner's claim. Of what then was Sumner's entry notice? That Sumner had appropriated 12,000 acres
which was to run north from B. as many poles as
would make that quantity, and nothing more. This
will stop us at E. and still make- E. F. the northern
boundary, which Gee callsto adjoin. The officers
and soldiers had equal rights: they had each paid
the same kind of consideration, and each had a right
to appropriate to his own use any vacant land he
could find, within the military district; and all was
vacant, except that which had been either granted,
or so described in an entry, as to afford reasonable
notice, to all others, of the spot appropriated by such
entry. On the 1st of June, 1785, when Gee entered, how could he know that Sumner's boudfdary
would be changed by extending the line from B. so
as to include 14,000 acres of land, when his entry
called for 12,000 only ? It was impossible. Yield
to the pretensions on the other side, and suppose the
facts to be, as we may well suppose it, that there
was-a succession of entries, each calling to bound
upon the north of the other, and look at the consequences. By changing Sumner's northern boundary, you change the northern boundary of each succeeding entry, and by this means there is an exchange of tracts to the northern boundary of the
State, and the last is pressed into the adjoining State.

2W
182.
Lemo

S .

CASES IN THE SUPRE=, COURT

1822.
Blunt's

Lesee
-Smith.

The position is too mischievous to be well founded.
But it has been argued that the decisions in Tennessee, which authorize an entry to be noticed as
evidence in a Court of law, are founded in error,
and ought not to be extended.
To those 'who have no knowledge of the peculiar situation of Tennessee, when North Carolina legislated upon this subject,'there is plausibility in this
argument: but when the situation of that country
is understood, and the statutes relative to this
point considered, it is believed, there can be found
no ground of doubt upon the subject. It has been
often examined, and for many years the point has
not only been considered as decided, but decided so
often, that it is settled, and settled upon principles
which every one will believe correct who will take
the trouble to examine them.
It has been further argued, that if th6 defendants
are permitted to introduce their entry in this case
it will be going farther than has been done in Tennessee.
The counsel who use this argument have not
examined this subject with their usual correctness.
The principle settled in every case is, that either
party, plaintiff or defendant, may introduce his entry,
and if that entry is special, and so describes the land
afterwards granted to the enterer, that his title shall
be considered, as if this grant had issued on the day
his entry was made.
It has likewise been insisted, that there is very
little pretence for putting grants founded upon military warrants upon the same footing with thoso bot.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tomed on entries made under.the acts of 1777 and
1783.
But the Courts have made no distinction, nor
ought they to make any, that could benefit the plaintiff. If qny distinction can be found, it is that there
is more reason for receiving the entry in the former
case than the latter. In the latter, the entry office
was in N. Carolina, remote from the land to be entered. In the former the office directed to be kept at
Nashville, in the military district ; to the end that
the officers and soldiers might conveniently examine
it, and become informed of previous appropriations.
Upon inspecting this record, and the facts there disclosed, it must be manifest that Sumner's boundary
is the line E. F. If not, how came the plaintiff by
the certificate for 1808 acres of land, on account of
the interference with Pasteur's ? It could not have
been procured, because there would have been 12,000
acres exclusive of Pasteurs's claim, and no certificate could have been procured. There is, therefore,
the representation to the General Assembly of N.
Carolina, the application to the Board of Commissioners, the testimony of many respectable witnesses,
and the persuasive evidence furnished by the verdicts
of three different juries, all concurring in the fact
that the line E. F. is Sumner's northern boundary.
Why should it be disturbed ? The plaintiff now holds
within that line about 11,000 acres of land, and has
a land warrant, or certificate for 1808 acres in compensation for that taken by Pasteur ,making in all
about 13,000 and that without interfering with the
defendants. They ought not to be disturbed, 'and

im.
Lessee
V.

Sti6

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT

272
1822.

'pBluut's
ersons

the more especially as the record shows, that many

are now dead, who formerly gave material

evidence,and upon whose evidence the two first ver.ith. dicts were founded.

Lesee

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment in ejectment
rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of West Tennessee, which was
brought by the plaintiffs in error. After a verdict in
favor of the defendants, the counsel for the plaintiff
moved for a new trial, which was refused. To the
opinion of the judge, overruling the motion for a new
trial, and also to his charge to the jury, the plaintiff
excepted, and the cause comes on now to be heard
on his exceptions
It is well settled that this Court will not revise the
opinion of a Circuit Court, either granting or rejecting a motion for a new trial; but the exception to
the charge of the judge, although taken after a motion
for a new trial, may have been and probably was reserved at the time the charge was given, and will
therefore be considered.
The exception to this charge of the Court below,
consists of two parts:
1st. To so much of it as admits the copies taken
from the Secretary's office of North Carolina, as evidence in the cause.
2d. To so much of it as admits the validity of
Gee's entry, and gives it the preference to so much of
Sumner's patent as comprehends land not embraced
in Pollock's survey.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The first point seems notto have been relied on
"bythe plain "ti.Scounsel in -arguatent; and has, we
think, been very properly abahdoned. These documeats were. official copies of papers belonging to the
title of ,the parties; taken frbm the office in Which
those papers were kept, and regularly authenticated.
We-perceive no ground on which the objections to
,their admission could be sustiined. If the charge of
the. judge went beyond these official copies to the
proceedings of the legislatuie, and the record of the
former-triali we perceive no.errior in this. The former trial was-between.parties or privies, and the petition to. the legislature was the act of the party by
gurdian, the .resolution of the General Assembly
on which,.was a. measure 6f the whole State, the effeet of which in this or any other case, might be controverted, but.to which.all interested in it might have
recourse.
The sedond part of the charge presents a question
of more intricacy, Which requires an attentive consideration of the land laws of. North Carolina, and of
the. deeisions of the Courts of Tennessee.
In Kentucky and in Virginia the rule is, that a
Court of common law cannot look beyond the patent; but in Tennessee it is understood to be otherwise., The Courts of law in that state allow the
parties, in an ejectment, to gob ack to the original entry, and to connect the patent with it. This rule is
founded on the-land laws of North Carolina, which
,have been46onstrued in Tennessee. to permit and require*.i-- But the, plaintiffs contend that this constri ction has been limited to the comparison of the
.

VOL.

VII.

5

273
1822

BIunt%

V.

274
1822.
Blunts

Lessee
17.

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

dates of the entries, and admits of no inquiry into
their legal effect as they stand in relation to each other.
If the question were to depend merely on its reason, it would be difficult to support the opinion that
a Court authorized to compare entries with each
other, should not, in the exercise of this power,
be jermitted to examine their whole legal operation
and relative effect. If it were to depend upon a construction. now, for the'.ifrst time to be,given to the
acts of North Carolina, we should fid great difficuliyin maintaining that they allow"' the' entries -to be
compared so far as respects dates, but no farther. T!io
act of November) 1786, ch. 20, in its preamble, recites, that "Whereas it is the intent and meaning of
the said act," (the actfor opening' the land-office,)
"6andof the act hereby revived and put in-force, that
the first enterers of the vacant 'and',unappropriated
lands, if specially located, the-rein described, shall
have preference of all others," -&c. The 1st section
then enaots,-" Thatevery first, enterer of any tract of
land-, specially located, lying-in. the western parts of
this state,",&c. shall have a further-time for making
his surveys, and that grants upon lands previously entered by any other person shall be void,
The same act allows a survey to be made on removed, warrants, in cases where the warrants, were
originally located on 'lands which had' been previously entered "as the law directs," by some other person, "provided such lands were at the -time of such
survey actually 'Vacant, and'-that such survey on removcd warrants shall not affect or injure the right of

275

OF THE UN MD STATES.

any tands enitered, and -VedWy loctred; iWthe office
aforesaid preVious to suah survey."I
The act of-November, 1787,"ch, .2, directs all
surveyors ' to. survey lands -according to thair priority
_of entry.; and that every grant, obtained'on a! ttbse:quent entry, contrary -to therovisions of that act,
shall-be void.
• Theoriginqacehad prescribed the manner-bf makingatries anld those -made in pursuance of law
argconsideredspecial
Between. sprcial .gefries th'e first is undoubfedly to
h& preferred'- tutifinentry bu-'special 'ahd, the
dther-v.rub, asif 'one -sho uld ,descfibb the land intended -to be acquir:6& in conformity with the act, and
tlie other- shouldd: totally omit to give a description
which might designate the place, should enter 5,000
acres of-land,-ying in thecounty of A'without.nam-ingL-.ay place in the county to which' it might
be fiked, could it be contended that, on any fair
construciion of the acts, this entry would prevail
against one which was special, but was subsequently
nade ? We think it could not. The acts of North
C~rolina appear to us to have been intended to pieserve the priority of legal entries, not of those made
contrary to law.
We.do not think.that the decisions of the Courts
of Tennessee establish a contrary principle. Several
dicta are to be-found in the cases stating the rule to
be, that Courts will go beyond the grant only to support a prior entry, but these dicta 'were applied to
thid exclusion- 6f extrinsic iiaatter, not to the exclusion
of considerations belonging to the entries themselves.

18n
Lseo

sfiit.

-276
1822.
]Blunt's

Lessee
V.

Smith.

CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT

The title to lands surveyed on removed warrants,
has never been carried back to the entry ; and on
the same principle the title to lands surveyed off
the entry, can have no date anterior to the patent, so
far as the survey does not conform to the entry. (1
Tenn. Rep. 172. 351. 506. 413.)
The effects of entries, then, as well as their dates,
is considered by the Courts of Tennessee.
It hasalso been contended that this principle ought
not to be applied to military grants.
The acts
of North Carolina, which have been construed to
justify a Court of law in considering the entry as
the commencement of title, are not, it is agreed, applicable to military warrants. But the act of 1786,
c. 20. on which this construcjion is supposed to be
founded, declares it to have been the intention of the
act for opening the land office, that the first enterers
"4shall have preference to all others in surveying and
obtaining grants for the same."
We think the act which prescribes the mode of obtaining military grants manifests this intention as unequivocally as those which are referred to in the act of
1786, c. 20. Itis true, as has been stated in argument
by the plaintiff's counsel, that the 3d see,. of the act
" for the relief of the officers and'soldiers of the Continental line, and for other purposes," "directs, that
where two or more persons wish or claim to have his
or their warrant located on the same piece of land, the
parties contending shall cast lots for the choice. But
this section obviously provides for applications made
at the same time. The 5th sectio, directs, that
" where a warrant shall be hereafter located, with-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

out any person making objections to such location,

277
1822.

that such location shall be good and valid, notwith- *
Lsee
standing the claim that may be afterwards set up by

any other person."
This section, we think, manifests a clear intention
to give priority of right to the prior entry ; and we
are not surprised that, under this act, the Courts of
Tennessee should comprehend military titles also in
that rule which authorizes Courts )of law to take
into view the entries of the parties. At any rate,
such is the settled course of the Courts of the State,
and those of the United States ought to conform
to it.
We think, then, that the Circuit Court committed
no error in inquiring into the rights of the parties to
the land in controversy, under their respective entries. It is next to be considered, whether, in making
this inquiry, that Court has decided erroneously.
The entry, as well as the patent of the plaintiff,
being the oldest, it must prevail unless some circumstance has occurred to defeat the right given by this
priority.
The defendants rely upon the survey made by
Pollock as confining the entry of Sumner to that
survey.
Of the existence of this survey there appears to
have been no doubt, and none seems to have been
entertained at the trial. The plaintiff objected to
receiving the copy of :the platt and certificate in evidence; but, When that objection was overruled, he
contested the survey no farther. His object, then,
was to show, that the second line was never run.

Smith

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The Judge charged the jury; that the platt and cermade by Pollock, if he marked no more of
Stificate
Blunt's
Lessee
the
corners
and lines of Sumner's tract, but the
VI.
Smith.
southern boundary, and south-east and south-west
corner would show, by calculation, where the northern boundary of his tract should be.
Nothing can be more apparent than the correctness of this charge The law directs, that "every
tract surveyed for officers or soldiers, shall be run out
at the four cardinal points of the compass, either in
a square oi in an oblong.': Consequently, when
one line of a survey is given, the remaining three
lines are found by a calculation which cannot vary.
General Sumner's entry was fbr 12,000 acres of
land. A line from west to east, constituting the
southern boundary, was run, and measured 1,292
poles. Corner trees at each extremity were marked.
From the end of this first line the survey calls for a
line due north 1,486 poles. Had this line been actually rurl and marked, the tract would have been
bounded by the lines actually run, and the corner
trees actually marked. But, the line not having
been run, the tract was bounded by the course and
distance called for. Had there been no survey, had
SUmner's entry been for 12,000 acres of land, to begin where the survey began, and to run east 1,292
poles, and from the ends of that line north for quantity, it must have been bounded in the same manner,
because, a rectangular oblong figure, to contain
12,000 acres, one of which is 1,272 poles, must have
for its other sides, lines of 1j486 poles. Of course
the Judge was correct in saying, that if the southern
1822.

279

OF THE UNITED STATES.

boundary was given, the northern boundary was to
be found by computation.
Was he equally correct in adding, that Gee's land
might be located on the north of Sumner's northern
line when thus found?
We think he was.
Gee's entry called to lie, "adjoining the northern
boundary of B. General Sumner, running west
along his line for complement."
Sumner's northern line was, consequently, Gee's
southern line.
If, then, Sumner's grant had been issued according to Pollock's survey, no interference between him
and Gee could have taken place. But a platt and
certificate of survey was afterwards made out by
Malloy, who was also a deputy surveyor, which extended the lines constituting the eastern and western
boundary of Sumner's land, to 1,737 poles; and upon
this platt and certificate his patent was issued. We
must, therefore, inquire whether Pollock's survey
was legalli made; and, if it was, whether it could
be afterwards changed. so as to affect a per-on making an entry in the intermediate time between his
first and second survey.
The laws of North Carolina make it the duty of
surveyors to survey entries in the order in which
they are made, and do not require the presence or
direction of the owners of the land. Pollock was
a deputy surveyor authorized to make this survey.
Consequently,* it was regularly made, and had all
the consequences of a legal survey.
Admitting the alteration made by Malloy to be

1822.
Bln'

Lw
smith.

280
1822.
B31unt'ss

Lessee

sit.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

perfectly justifiable, Gee's entry was prior to that
alteration ; and the question is, whether such alteration can affect an appropriation previously made?
Upon the principles of reason and common justice, we could feel no difficulty on this point. But
we are relieved from considering it by the decisions
which have already taken place in Tennessee. In
Blakemore v. Chambles, (1 Tenn. Rep. 3.) it was
expressly determined, that the validity of surveys "has no dependence on the will or direction of
claimants," and that though the mistakes of surveyors may be corrected, "they cannot be so' corrected
as to injure a subsequent adjoining enterer."
Gee's entry, then, made after Pollock's suryey,
will, if a valid !ntry,.hold the lands against any subsequent survey made for Sumner. But as Sumner's is the eldest grant, the validity of Gee's entry
must be examined.
It calls to adjoin Sumner's northern boundary,
and to run west along his line for complement.
The laws of North Carolina direct, that an entry
shall express "1the nearest water courses, and remarkable places, and such water courses, lakes, and
ponds as may be therein, the natural boundaries and
lines of any other person or persons, if any, which
divide it from other lands."
This law cannot be- construed, and never has been
construed, to require that water courses, or remarkable places which are remote, should be expressed in
the entry. It requires the expression of those only
which are contiguous, and which may assist in show-

OF. THE UNITED STATES.

ing the land intended to be acquired. If there be no
considerable water courses, lakes, or ponds within it,
the entry cannot express thefo. The reference to
the adjoining land, when we take into view that.the
law directs entries to be surveyed according to their
dates, would always be sufficient to make the entry
special, if the line called for could be found In
Smith and othersv. Craig'sLessee,(2 Tenn..Rep.-296.)
the Court said, "1Previously to the year. 1786, a
vague entry was well understood to be one tha t contained no such specialty as that a majority of those
acquainted in its neighbourhood, at its date, could by
reasonable industry, find it; a special entry was considered the reverse. Hownatttral.is it, then, for us to
suppose, that the legislature designed, in the use of
this -expression, in the act of 1786, to convey such
ideas as had by usage and common consent been appropriated to it."
The books are full of cases containing similar expressions. It is impossible ta look at ,llinto the subject, without being satisfied that in the State of Tennessee, such an entry as that of Gee would be deemed special,, if Sumner's northern boundary could be
found.
There could be no difficulty in finding it, since his
land had been surveyed when this ehtry was made.
But the great objection on which the plaintiffs
most rely, is, that tQ constitute a special entry in the
state of Tennessee, the objects called for must be no!torious as well as certain. The entry must be s~uch
as to give general information of the precise land it
appropriates. Notoriety,-as well as ideiltity, are esVOL. VII.

36

1822.

B
Lmso
Smith.

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.

"
Blunt's
essee

Smith.

sential, it is said, to specialty, and a call for Sumner's
line is not good, unless Sumner's survey was notorious.

If this proposition be correct, if notoriety as
well as identity be essential to the validity of an on-try in Tennessee as it is in Kentucky, then Gee's entry cannot be sustained. But the law of Tennessee
is, in this respect, entirely different from that of Kentucky. The act of Virginia, which is the land law
of Kentucky, requires,, that entries shall be so special and certain that any subsequent locater may
know how to. appropriate the adjacent residuum.
The land law of North Carolina, which is the law
of Tennessee, contains no such provision. The lawyers of Kentucky have made some attempts to traisplant into Tennessee the principles. which had grown
up in Kentucky ; but their attempts were unsuccessful. The books are full of cases in which it is expressly decided that notoriety is not essential to the
validity of an entry. *Inthe case of Philip'sLessee
v. Robertson, (2 Tenn. Rep. 399.) the whole subject
is reviewed. Judge Overton takes a very comprehensive view of the doctrines growing out of the
land laws of North Carolina, and shows conclusively that they do not require, and had never been understood in Tennessee to require notoriety, as essential
to the validity of an entry. His opinion in this case
has, we are informed, been confirmed by the other
judges of their Supreme Court.
If notoriety be not necessary to Gee's entry, it is
special according to the laws of Tennessee, and ought
to hold the land it covers against any subsequent sur-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vey made of an entry'which had been previously surveyed. The judge was correct in saying that such

283
182.

"
SThe

subsequent survey must be considered as if made on santilma
Trinidad.

a removed warrant.
Judgment affirmed with costs.

The SAINTISSMA TRINIDAD, and the ST. AN DE
The commission of a public ship of a foreign state, signed by the proper
authorities, is conclusive evidence of her national character.
During the existence of the civil war between Spain and her Colonies,
-and previous to the acknowledgment of the independence of the latter by the United States, the colonies were deemed by us belligw
rent nations -and entitled, so far as .concerns us, to all the so.
vereign rights of war, against their enemy..
How far, aid under what circumstances, the evidence of witnesses, who
concuZ in proof of a material fact, butwhose testimony is in other
respects contradictory, ought to be credited in respect to that fact.
The sending of armed, vessels, or of miinitions of war, from a neutral
country to a belligerent port, for sale as articles of commerce, is unlawful only as it subjects the property to confiscation Qn capture by
tie other belligerent.
No neutral state is bound to prohibit the expoitation of contraband
articles, and the United States have not prohibited it.
In the case of an illegal augmentation of the force of a belligerent
cruizer in our ports by enlisting men, the onus probandiis thrown on
him to show, that the persons enlisted were subjects of the belligerent state, or belonging to its service, and then transiently within
the U. S.

The 6th article of the Spanish treaty of 1795, applies exclusively to
the protection and defence of Spanish ships within our territorial ju-

