REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
IN

THE

SUPR= COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1822.

[LOCAL LAW.

CnAacr.]

MILLFR and Others v. KE R and Others,
A warrant and survey authorize the proprietor of them to demand the
legal title, but do not, in themselves, constitute a legal title: until
the consummation of the title by a grant, the person who acquires au
equity holds a right, subject to examination.
Where the register of the land office of Virginia had, by mistake,
given a warrant for military services in the Continentao line, on a cer.
tificate authorizing a warrant for services in the State line, and in
recording it, pursued the certificate, and not the warrant, it was held
that this Court could 4ot support a prior entry and survey, on a warrant thus issued by mistake, against a senior patent.
Where the plaintiffs seek to set aside the legal title, because they have
the superior equity, it is consistent with tie principles of the Court to
rebut this equity by any circumstances which may impair it: and the
legal title cannot be made to yield to an equity founded on the mistake of a ministerial officer.

TaIs cause was argued and determined at the Iast
term, but omitted to be reported.
VOL. VHI.

1.

CASES IN THE SUPREME -COURT
1822.

'Court.
Miler
V.

Mr. Justice TODD delivered the opinion of the
On the z9th of May, 1783, Seymour Powell, heir
of Thomas Powell, obtained a military land warrant
from the Register's office in Virginia, No. 679, for
26631 acres of land "due in consideration of services
for three years, as a lieutenant of the Virginia Continental line. agreeably to a certificate from the Governor and Council, received into the land office."
A part of this warrant was entered in the Military
District reserved for the officers and soldiers of the
Virginia Continental line, on the 16th of June, 1795;
and, on the Btth of October, 1796, 789 acres, part
thereof, was surveyed in the name of the said Soymour Powell, which survey was on the 1st of March,
1797, recorded in the office of the surveyor-general.
On the 10th of July, 1800, Justus Miller purchased
this land, and took an assignment of the entry and
survey, and obtained a patent therefor in February,
1808.
John Neville made an entry on the same land in
May, 1806, on a military land warrant, for services
in the Virginia Continental line; and his heirs, the
respondents, obtained a patent therefor on the 30th of'
April, 1807.
They have brought an ejectment against the heirs
of Justus Miller, who having, as they say, the elder
equitable, though the junior legal title, have filed this
bill to enjoin proceedings at law, and compel Noville;s heirs to convey the legal title to them.
In their answer, Neville's heirs assert that Thomas Powell never served in the Virginia Continental

OF THE UNITED STATzS.

line, but that his service was performed in the State
line, and that the certificate of the Governor and
Council, on which the warrant was issued, was exline, so
pressed to be given for services in. the State
that the warrant issued fraudulently, or by mistake.
They farther insist, that as the officers of the State
line could not enter their warrants in the district reserved for the Continental line, the plaintiffs ought
not to be permitted to avail themselves of a title
founded in mistake, to defeattheir legal title.
The testimony taken in the cause shows, that the
r9cords of the office of the Executive Council of
Virginia have been examined, and that no certificate
has ever been granted to Seymour Powell, as the
heir of Thomas Powell, for services in the Virginia
Continintal ine, but that a certificate was -granted to
him for military services for three years in the State
line.
In tle land office, too,, records are to be preserved
of all the warrants which issue, and of the certificates on which they issue. This office also has been
searched, and no .certificate is found of any military
service rendered by Thomas Powell, in the Virginia
Continental line, nor is there on record any warrant
for such service ; but there is a certificate given to
Seymour Powell, for his military services as a lieutenantin the State line; and a warrant on record for
those services, bearing the same date and number
with that on which the land now in controversy was
entered.
There is no proof, and no reason to believe, that
Thomas Powell ever performed any military ser-

1822.
MFder

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.

vice in the Virginia line on Continental establish-

Mile
Alfiler

ment.

V.

It is, then, apparent that the register of the land
office has, by mistake, given a warrant
for military
services in the Continental line, on a certificate authorizing a warrant for service in the State line; and
that, in recording it, he has pursued the certificate,
and not the warrant.
The question is, can this Court support a prior
entry and survey, on a warrant thus issued by mistake, against a senior patent ?
It bar been urged, on the part of the appellants,
that the title of Thomas Powell, for services in the
State line, is precisely to the same quantity of land
as if those services had been rendered in the Continental line; his claim on the State of Virginia is the
same. That, had the warrant been properly issued,
it might have been rcatisfied in the district set apart
for the officers and soldiers of the State line, which
district is in the State of Kentucky, and can no
longer be appropriated by the holders of warrants for
military services in the Virginia State line. Thus
the rights under Powell are sacrificed, without any
fault of his, in consequence of a mistake committed
by the register of the land office. They say that
they are purchasers, without notice, of a title apparently good; and ought not to be affected by the
mistake of a public officer. They insist that in the
hands of a purchaser, a warrant ought to be liable
to no objection founded on circumstan'ces anterior to
its date.

OP THE UNITED STATES,

Is8.
There is great force in these arguments; and, if
the military district had remained a part of Virginia '
v.
until Mr. Powell's warrant was entered, they would,
Kerr.
perhaps, be unanswerable. But, in 1784, this district, with all the territory claimed by Virginia northwest of the Ohio, was ceded to the United States,
with a reservation in favour of the legal bounties of
the Virginia troops on Continental establishment
only. There is no reservation whatever in favour of
the bounties in land, to the State troops. Provision
for them was made elsewhere.
After this cession, no title could he acquired under
Virginia, which was not included within the reservations. The same principle was asserted by this
Court in the case of Polk's lessee v. Wendell, and
is, we think, too clear to be controverted. The great
difficulty in this case consists in the admission of any
testimony whatever, which calls into question the
validity of a warrant issued by the officer to whom
that duty is assigned by law. In examining this
question, the distinction between an act which is judicial, and one which is merely ministerial, must be
regarded. The register of the land office is not at
liberty to examine testimony, and to exercise his own
judgment respecting the right of an applicant for a
military land warrant. He was originally directed
to grant warrants to the officers or soldiers "producing to him a certificate of their claims respectively
from the Commissioner of War, and not otherwise."
When the office of Commissioner of War was put
b 5 WhL Rep. 293,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i8ee.
Miler1
K.

down, this duty devolved on the Executive Department, whose certificate was as obligatory on the register, as that of the Commissioner of War had been.
The question of right then was'tried
before the Executive Council, and the register is a mere minist6tial
officer carrying the judgment of the Executive into
execution by issuing his warrant in pursuance of
their certificate. This certificate is filed and preserved in the office as the document on which the
warrant issued. It is as much a part of the record
as the warrant itself.
A warrant and survey authorize the proprietor of
them to demand the legal title, but do not, in themselves, constitute a legal title. Until the consummation of the title by a grant, the person who, acquires an equity holds a right subject to examination.
The validity of every document is then open to examination, whatever the law may be after the emanation of a patent.
If this be correct, and the objection to the warrant
delivered to Mr. Powell can be considered, he is
shown, by the clearest testimony, to be the holder of
a warrant issued by mistake. As an officer in the
State line, he was not entitled to a warrant which
could appropriate lands lying in the military district
northwest of the Ohio.
As the p!aintiffs are endeavouring to set aside the
legal title, because they have the superior equity,
we think it consistent with the principles of the
Court to rt-but this equity by any circumstances
which may impair it.

OF THE-UNITED STATES.

The case is a hard one on the part of the plaintiffs; and they may have strong claims on the libe-

rality and justice of the United States, or of Virtitle can be
ginia; but we do not think the legal
made to yield to an equity founded in the mistake
of a ministerial officer.
Decree affirmed, each party paying his own costs.

1822.
N ewsom

r.

Pryor.

[LocAL L.w.]

NEwsom v. PRYOR's Lessee.
Where platts are returned and grants made, without an actual survey, the rule of construction which has been adopted, in order to
settle the conflicting claims of different parties, is, that the most material, and most certain calls shall control those which are less material and less certain.
A call for a natural object, as a river, a known stream, a spring, or
even a marked line, shall control both course and distance.
There is no distinction between a call to stop at a river, and a call to
cross a[ river.
Where a grant was made for 5,000 acres of land, "lying on both sides
of the two main forks of Duck river, beginning, &c. and running
thence west 894 poles, to a white oak, thence south 894 poles, to a
stake crossing the ?irer, thence east 894 poles, to a stake, thence
north 894 poles to the beginning, crossing the south fork;" it was
held, that it must be surveyed so as to extend the second line of the
grant such a distance on the course called for as would cross Duck
river to the opposite bank.

THis cause was argued by Mr. Law,a for the
a Hecite1 CookesTee.Rep. 146. 1 Heyw. Rep. 253. 2 Heyw.
Rep. 75. 139. 179. 4 theat. Rep. 448.

Fe. GU.

