CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182T. . against a creditor who is a mortgagee, would be to
counteract the spirit of these laws.
Browder
V.
Decree affirmed with costs.
Brwe

M'Arthur.

(PRACTICE.]

BROWDER V. MARTHUR.
This Court will not grant a rehearing in an equity cause, after it 1as
been remitted to the Court below to carry into effect the decree of
this Court, according to its mandate.

Feb. 2181.

Mr. Doddridge,for the appellant, Browder, moved
for a rehearing in this cause, which is the same case
that was determined at the last term, and remitted
to the Court below to carry into effect the decree of
this Court.- It was now again brought before this
Court, upon an appeal from the decree of the Court
below, eritered according to the mandate from this
Court. The appellant's counsel now moved for a
rehearing upon the merits.
The COURT denied the motion, being of opinion
that it was too late to grant a rehearing in a cause
after it had been remitted to the Court below, to carry
into effect the decree of this Court, according to its
mandate; and that a subsequent appeal from the
Circuit Court, for supposed error in.carrying into
a S. C. 6 Wheat. Rep.
h He cited 2 Aladd. Chian. 390.

3 P. Wins. 8.

2 .111k. 439.

59

OF THE UNITED STATES.

effect such mandate, brought up only the proceedings
subsequent to the mandate, and did not authorize an
inquiry into the merits of the original decree.
A~tion denied.

[Co

ox LAw.

LocAL LAW.]

RICARD V. WILLIAMS

and Others.

Possession of Iandby a party, claimingit as his own in fee, isprimafacie evidence of his ownership and seisin of the inheritance.
But possession alone, unexplained by collateral circumstances, which
show thequality and extent of the interest claimed, evidences no more
than the meje fact of present occupation by right.
Bat if the irtybein under tide, and by mistake of law supposes himself possessed of a less estate than really belongs to him, the law will
remit him to his full right and title.
It is a general rule that a disseissor caunot qualify his own wrong, but
must be considered as a disscissor in fee.
But this rule is introduced only for the benefit of the disseissee, for the
sake of electing his remedy.
And it must also appear that the party found in possession entered with.
out right; for if his entry were congeable, or his possession lawful,
his entry and possession will be considered as limited by his right.
Presumptions of a grant, arising from the lapse of time, are applied to
corporeal, as well as incorporeal bereditaments.
They may be encountered and rebutted by contrary presumptions, and
can never arise where all the circumstances are perfectly consistent
with the non-existence of a grant.
JA fortiori, they cannot arise where the claim is of such a nature as is at
variancewith the supposition of a grant.
In general, the presumption of a grant is limited to periods analogous to
those of the statute of limitations, in cases where the statute does
not apply.
Where the statute applies, the presumption is not generally resorted to:

182.
lucard

V.
Williams.

