OF THE UNITED STATES.

1C22.
ting up an adverse title in a third person, to controvert an actual existing title, and resisting a claim "T7'
made by a person having no title whatever. In the Irresistible.
case last mentioned it would appear that the plaintiff
had a title which was in itself sufficient to maintain
his. action ; but there was another, and perhaps a superior title, in a third -person, with which the defendant was not connected. The rejection of all
evidence of this title does not, we think, prove that
the same Court would have compelled the defendant
to acknowledge a title of which no evidence was
.given, or-have rejected proof of any title in himself;
especially when the vendee received nothing-not
even possession from the vendor.

Judgment affirmed with costs.

(INsR.A-cE CoUT.)

..The IRRESISTIBLE.

Daniels, Caimant,

An offence against a temporary statute cannot be punished after the
expiration of the act, unless a particu]ar provision be made by law
for that purpose.
The prov 'o in the repealingclause of the Neutrality Act of the 20th of
April, 1818, did not authorize a'forfeiture under the act of the 3d of
March, 1817, (which was included in the repeal,) after the time when
that actwould have expired by its own limitation.

THIs -cause.was submitted without argument.
.Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
of the Court.

tarh 2o0a.

552
1822.

"The
Irresistible.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

This is an appeal from a sentence.of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, dismissing an information filed in that Court
against the brig La Irresistible, as forfeited under the
acts of Congress, made for the preservation of the
neutrality of the United States. The offence charged in the information, was committed under the act
of 1817, and the only question is,
whether thdinform,'on can be sustained after the time whenthat act
wo.rd have expired by its-ovn limitation.
1 he act was to.continue in force two years after
the.3d of March, 1817.
On the 20th of April, 1818, Congress passed an
act making farther provision on the same subject,
which repealed all former acts on that sul~ect, and
among these the act of 1817, and annexed to the repealing clause the following proviso, "1Provided, nevertheless, that persons having offended against any of
the acts aforesaid may be prosecuted, convicted, and
punished, as if the same were not repealed, and no
forfeiture heretofore incurred by a violation.of any of
the acts aforesaid shall be affected by such repeal."1
The obvious construction of this clause is, that the
power to prosecute, convict, and punish offenders
against either of the repealed acts, remains as if the
repealing act had never been passed. It does not
create a power to punish, but preserves that which
before existed. Now, it is well settled, that an offence against a temporary act cannot be punished after the expiration of the act, unless a particular provision be made by law for the purpose.
Sentence affirmed.

