CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
' er's

(PRACTICE.)

Heirs
V.

Thomas.

MACKER'S

Heirs v. THOMAS.

In real actions, the death of the ancestor,, without having appeared
to the suit, abates the suit, and it cannot be revived and prosecuted against the heirs of the original defendant.
If the heirs be made parties by order of the Court in which the suit is
brought, and judgment is entered against them by default for want
of a plea, upon a summons ad count against the original defendant,
they may sue out a writ of error, and reverse the judgment.
.March151h.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky. The defendant brought a writ of right in that Court against
John Macker, the ancestor of the plaintiff in error, for
an undivided moiety in a certain tract of land. After a summons served upon Macker, he died, without
having appeared to the suit, and a rule was obtained by
the plaintiff below, upon the heirs of the defendant, to
show cause why the suit should not be revived against
them. This rule being served and no cause shown
to the contrary, the suit, by order of the Court, was
revived against the heirs, the plaintifs in error, and
at a subsequent term of the Court, judgment by
default was entered against them, from which judgment this writ of error is prosevuted.
The main question for the decision of this Court is,
whether the Circuit Court erred in directing the suit
to be revived against the heirs of Macker, and ron-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

dering judgment against them ? The Court consider this point to have been decided in the case of
Green V'. Watkins, 6 Wheat. Rep. 260. The question there was, whether in real actions, the death of
either party, after a writ of error sued out, abates the
suit; and it'was decided that it did not. But in examining the general principles of ldw upon the subject of abatement by the -death of pirties, it was distinctly laid down, that in real and personal actions,
the death of either partyi before judgment, did at
common lawabate the suit;- and' that the 31st section of the Judiciary Act: of 1789, c. 20., wag necessary to enable the action -to 'be prosecuted by or
against therepresentatives of the deceased party, when
the cause of action survived. But this section is
clearly confined to personal actions, as the power to
.rosecute or defend. is given to the exedutor or administrator of the deceased party, piid not
to the heir
or devisee.
It is objected by the counsel for the defendant
in error, that the defendants in the Court below
could not sue out and prosecute a writ of error, because iheyfailed to appear and plead to the suit in
that Court.. No case was referred to in support of
this objection, and it is confidently believed that
none can be found to countenance it. Although the
plaintiffs in error did not plead to the suit' they were
nevertheless made parties to it by the order of the
-Court, and as slich, judgment was rendered against
them, and that too upon a summons and countagainst
the ancestor. Being, then, parties to the suit, and affected by the judgment against them, they were

1S21.
Heir
Thomx%

532

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822,
Macker's
Heirs
V.

Thomas,

olearlyentitled tosueouta writof error; and although,
the judgment was entered by default for want of a
plea, they may be injured not less by such jndgment,
than if it had been entered upon a verdict. Ifjudgment in an action of trespass be rendered against one
defendant by default, and in favour of the other defendant upon a plea, the former may alone bring a
writ of error. (Lev. 220. Hob. 70.) If it should be
said that the appearance of the plaintiffs in error in
the Circuit Court, by an attorney of -that Court,
cured the error committed in reviving the suit against
them, the answer is, that by the death of the ance'stor, a new cause of action arose against the heirs,
and the plea is not in the.same condition as it was in
the lifetime of the party.0 The suit having once
abated by the death of the defendant, it was out of
Court, and a new summons and count against the
heirs was necessary. Besides, the appearance was
not voluntary, but was the consequence of an erroneous order of the Court, enabling the plaintiff below to prosecute the suit against the heirs.
It is objected, in the last plate, that if the plaintiffs
have a right to .prosecute this writ of error, they nevertheless-cannot assign for error the order of the
Court reviving the suit, because they failed in that
Court to appear and except to the opinion of the
Court in relation to the order. But an exception to
the opinion of the Court is only necessary when
the alleged error could not otherwise appear upon
the record, The error in this -case was in ordering
Green v. Watkins, 6 Mi7cat. Rep. 262.
G(

OF THE UNITED" STATES.

the suit to be revived and prosecuted against the
heirs of the origtial defendant, and proceeding to
renderjudgment against them upon a summons and
count against the original defendant, all which sufficiently appears upoir the face of this record.
This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the district of Kenucky, and
was argued by counsel for the defendant in error. On
consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion that
the said Circuit Court erred in ordering 'the suit
to be revived and prosecuted against the heirs of
the original defendant, and proceeding to render
judgment against them upon a summons and count
against the original defendant. It is therefore
ADJUDGED and ORDERED that fhe judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this case be, and the same is
hereby, reversed and annulled. And this Court proceeding to render such judgment as the said Circuit
Court should have rendered, it is farther ADJUDGED
and ORDERED that the said suit be, and the same is
hereby abated.
JUDGMENT.

535
1822.
lacxkeez

Hein

v.

