OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.

(Pnir.)

The GRAN PARA.

The Consul Generalof Portugal, Libellant.

Prizes made by armed vessels which have violated the statutes for preserving the neutrality of the United States, will be restored if
brought rnto our ports.
This Court has never decided that the offence adheres to the vessel under whatever change of circumstances that may take place, nor that
iteannot be deposited at the termination of the cruize, in preparing for
which it was committed; but if this termination be merely colourable, and the vesel was originally equipped with the intention of being employed on the cruize, during which the papture was made, the
delidun is not purged.

from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This was a libel filed in the District'Court of
Maryland, by the Consul -General of Portugal, alleging that a large sum of money in silver and gold
coins had been, in the -year 1818, taken out of the
Portuguese ship Gran Para, then bound on a voyage
from Rio Janeiro to Lisbon, by a private armed vesal called the Irresistible, which had bzcn -fitted out
in the United States, in violation of the neutrality
acts; that the said sum of money had been brought
within our territorial jurisdiction, and deposited in
the Marine Bank of Baltimore ; and praying that
the same might be restored to the original Portuguese owners. A claim was filed by.one Stansbury, as agent for John D. Daniels, master and
owner of the Irresistible, stating -him to be a citizen of the Oriental Republic, which was at war with
Portugal, and that he was cruizing under the flag
APPEAL

The
Gran Para.

472
1822.
- The

Gran Para

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and commission of that republic at the time the capture was made, as set forth in the libel, and insisting
on his title to the money as lawful prize of war.
By the proofs taken in the cause it appeared that the
capturing vessel was built in the port of Baltimore,
in the year 1817, and was, in all respects, constructed for the purposes of war. On the 16th of February, 1818, after being launched, she was purchased by the claimant, Daniels, then a citiken of
the United States. A crew of about fifty men were
enlisted in Baltimore, and she cleared out for Teneriffe, having in her hold 12 eighteen pound gunnades with their carriages, and a number of small
arms, and a quantity of ammunition, entered outwards as cargo. The vessel proceeded directly for
Buenos Ayres, where she remained a few weeks,
during which time the crew was discharged.
Having obtained a commission from the government at that place to cruize against Spain, a crew
was enlisted consisting chiefly of the same persons
who had come in the vessel from Baltimore, and she
sailed, in June, 1818, on a cruize under the command
of the claimant. The next day aftershe left the port,
a commission from General Artigas, as Chief of the
Oriental Republic, was produced, tinder which the
claimant declared that he intended to cruize, and
that granted by the government of Buenos Ayres
was sent back to that place. During this cruize,
several Portuguese vessels were captured, and the
money,- the restitutibn of which was prayed for by
the libellant, was taken out of them. In September, 1818, the Irresistible returned to Baltimore,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

473

and a large sum of money, captured during the
1821.
bank.
the
in
cruize, was deposited
Ile
Pra.
Gran
Circuit
and
District
the
in
entered
were
Decrees
Courts, restoring the property to the original own.
ers, and the cause was brought by appeal to this
Court.
Mr. Winder, for the appellant and claimant, made
the following points:
1. That the manner in which the Irresistible left
the United States, on her voyage to Buenos Ayres,
was not in violation of the statutes of Congress, or
the neutral obligations of the United States by the
law of nations.
2 It was not contrary to the law of nations for
the Oriental Republic, finding the Irresistible in the
river La Plata, under the circumstances in which she
was, to take her into their service as a cruizer
against their enemies.
3. That the conduct of Daniels, and any others
whowent out in her, in entering into the service of the
Oriental Republic, was not contrary to the law of
nations, nor in violation of the duties of neutrality imposed on the United States by the law of nations.
4. But even if the appellant's counsel should be
mistaken in this respect, yet there is no evidence in
this cause to show that the money attached was
taken from the ship Gran Para, nor that any such
ship was captured by the Irresistible.
Mr. D. Hoffman, contra, after commenting on the
testimony to establish the American ownership, and
the illegal outfit at Baltimore, of the privateer, argued.
VoLx. VII.

60

Feb. 20th.

4i74

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

(1.) that the neutrality and laws of this country haying been violated by the captors, this Court will doThe
GranPara. cree restitution on that ground, though the commis.
i 8e2.

sion under which they acted were wholly unimpeachable ; a fact which is not admitted inthis case, an
the commissions of Artigas stand upon grounds essentially different from those which justify the commissions of Buenos Ayres, the Republic of Colombia, &c.
The law on this subject has become too well settled, and familiar, to justify much reference to, or
comment on, authorities. It was at one time suppose.d that neutral nations were, in all cases, obliged by
their amity and neutrality, to rescue the captured
and his property from the power of his enemy, who
had brought them infra prsidia of the neutral
country, and to award restitution by a species of fits
yastliminii. This was certainly, at one time, the
doctrine of the English Courts and jurists, and obtains in some countries on the continent of Europe.
The rule, however, of the Courts of this country,
has been established to be exactly the reverse. As
a general rule, a neutral Court has no such power.
The inquiry as to the validity and efficiency of a helligerent capture, is referred to the Courts of the captors ; and the restoring power, exercised on various
occasions by the Courts of this country, springs from
a 2 Azund, 222,223. 250. 261. Marten's Priv. 44. 1 folloy,
58. 60. 66. 76. 87. 100. 6 Fin. .br. 515. 517. 519. 834. 16
Vin. Abr. 347. 350. Beawes, Lex. Mir. 241. 243, 244.2 Brown's
Cir. and Adm. Law, 214, 215.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

,$75

cerfain exceptions, which have been engrafted on the
1822.
general rule, This Court will inquire into every
The
seizure on the high seas, for the purpose of ascer- Grand Pam.
taining whether the taking were lawful or piratical;
for if there be no commission, the seizure is piracy
defacto and de jure, and renders the captors responsible civiter et criminaliter. If fhere be a commission which at the time of taking was amortised, or
abused animo deprwdandi,they Would be responsible
certainly civilite ,-perhaps criminaliter. If the commission were granted by an incompetent power, every presumption would lie in their favour in a criminal proceeding against them ; but they would be civilly responsible before any tribunal administering the
jusgentium. Every such tribunal, therefore, will inquirefirst, into the fact of the existence of a commission ; secondly, the competency of the power granting it ; both of which are essential in order to distinguish:capture from pircy, and the commission issued by a state or nation from that which is granted
by a few associated Persons, or an isolated individual, who have assumed the exercise of.sovereign power.0

With regard to the exceptions to the general rule
which refers the question of prize or no prize to the
Courts of the captors, and repudiates the right in a
neutral to restore the res capta to those from whom it
has been taken, it is said that there are now only
two: first, where the capture was made within the
a Talbot v. Janson, 3 Dali. 133. The
Invincible, 1 Wieat.

Rep. 258. Rose v. Himely, 4 Crandt, 241.

4,76

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT

1822.

The

Gran Para.

neutral territory ;a and secondly, wherethe capturing
vessel was in the whole, or in any part, owned or
equipped, or her force in any degree augmented within the dominions of such neutral state, and this by the
general principles of international law, independently of all statutory inhibitions of such ownership,
equipment, &c.b The uniform series of decisions of
the American Courts awards restitution to the original owners, of property thus taken, and the facts of the
present case will be found, it is .presumed, much
stronger than in most others which have occurred.c
2. This Court is competent to restore property to
the respondent, by the general principles of maritime
and international law, without any reference to the
proof that the neutrality and laws of this country
have been violated by the captors, but on the sole
ground that the taking was not jure belli, but wholly
without commission; as Arfigas does not represent a
a state or nation competent to grant a commission to
war against Portugal. The principles established by
a Grotius, de J B. ac. P. 1. 3. e. 4. Bynk. Q. J. Pub. 11. c, 8.
Pattel,Droit Des Gens,1. 3 c. 7. ยง 132. 5 Rob. 15. 373. Bee's Rep.
204.
b. Pres. .Messpges, vol. 1. 21. 24. 27. 36. 42. 47, 48. 60.
61,62.72, 73.78.82.87.95. 9 Cranch, 365. 4 Wheat. Rep. 310,
311.
c ee's Rep. 9. 11. 28. 60. *73. 114. 292. 299.%3 Dall. 285.
307. 319. 2 Peters, 345. The Alerta, 9 Cranch. 359 Divina
Pastora, 4 Wheat. Rep. 53. The Estrella, 4 Wheat. Rep. 298. The
Nuestra Senora, lb. 695. Amistad de Rues, 5 Wheat. Rep. 386.
The Bello Corrunes, 6 Wheat. Rep. 152. Nueva Anna, lb. 193,
Conception, lb. 335,

477

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the cases recently decided by this Court, do not impugn-the doctrine contended for, as they occurred in

1822.
"

"

the case of commissions granted by such of the OGrParam
South American provinces, as our government, in the
opinion of the. Court, had recognised to be in a civil
war with Spain, the mother country, and which commissions only operated against such parent state..
Our government and this Court having, in no instance whatever, recognised Artgas as engaged in a
war, even with Spain, the mother country, and certainly not with Portugal,he is wholly incompetent
to issue commissions of prize, as much so as any other
individual in the Spanish provinces. This Court,
therefore, is competent as an Instance Court to decree restitution and damages, as in ordinary cases of
maritime tort, and to decide (negatively) that the
Banda Oriental is not a state or nation invested with
the attributes of sovereignty, the former or ancient
state of things being presumed to remain defacto, as
well as dejure.
The government of the United States has, in no
instance, recognized Artigas as engaged in a civil
war with Spain, or in a war of any kind with Portugal. If we refer to the documents recognizing the
South American provinces, as engaged in a civil war
with Spain, we shall find no mention made of such
a war by Artigas, or the Banda Oriental.a The general expression, " South American Provinces," is
a 9 Niles' Regist. 393. 396. Let. Sec. State, 19th Jan. 1816.
Mess. 17th .Nov. 1818. 4 Wheat. Rep. 1flppx. 23. Mess. 17th Dec.
1819. Mess. 8th Alar-ch, 1822.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
The

.ran

qualified by the express mention of Buenos Ayres
and Venezuela. But if the Banda Oriental, as modi.ara. fled by Artigas, might be embraced under such a
general recognition of the South 'American provinces
being engaged in a civil war 'with Spain, still it
would be incumbent on the claimant to prove that
this country ever-was a yrovitce of Spain : it may
have been apait of a province: we'have no historical or geographical account of the country that is by
any means satisfactgry ; and if Artigas, and his
wretched and savage followers be, recognized as
qualified to wage.war, then may every township, district, city, village, hamlet, or individual, claim the
same high prerogative. If Artigas, and a few adherents, can segregate themselves from the common
cause, and constitute themselves a state or nation
competent to wage either a civil or public ivar, may
not every individual in the Spanish provinces claimi
the same right ? Where is' the boundary, or clear
line of deniarcation ? By what principle can such a
right be regulated, except by requiring that the power
claiming the right should be possessed of the elements or constituents of a nation, such as afixed domain, a nationaltreasury, a nationalforce, a code of
lawsa and perhaps, in order'to wage a maritime war,
sea ports ? Nor will Grotius, nor his enlightened
commentator, allow a company or horde of men to
be a state or nation, although they may observe some
kind of government and equity among themselves.
.. 1. c. 17. Grol.
a Sir L. Jenk. 424. 791. Bynk. Q. J. 'Pub,
t.1. c. 3. ยง 34. 1. 3 c. 3. ยง 1, 2. Cic. Phill. 4. cap. 4.

I OF THE'UNITED STATES.

479

All that we know of Artigas and his adhe:ents, pro1822.
claims him a mere, aventurer, and them a lawless band to whom he is the sole tie of union. GranPm
Artigas is mentioned by these documents to be engaged in a contest with -Buenos Ayres; but it is no
where stated that he is the chief magistrate of a province engaged in a civil war with Spaifi. The only
executive notice of the Banda Oriental, is in the Presidentes message of the 17th November, 1818. On
submitting to Congress the documents furnished him
by our commissioners, he states, that "it appears
from these communications, that the government of
Buenos- Ayres declared itself independent, in July,,
816; that the Banda Oriental, Entre Rios, and
Paraguay, with the city of Santa F6e, all of which
are also independent, are," &c.

This, surely is nof a recognition, of their independence; for the Executive, I presume, has no power
to make such recognition; nor is it a recognition of
the existence of a civil war between tne Banda Oriental and Spain. It will also be observed, that in
the late message of the President, 8th March, 1822
no mention whatever is made of the Banda Oriental.
But if it be admitted, argumenti gratia, that the
Banda Oriental was a South American province,
engaged in a civil war with Spain, the mother country, would such a partial recognition clothe its
qhieftaifi with the pqwer of waging war, against a
nation in no way connected, with' Spain ? The-sound
doctrine, perhaps, is, that-a colony, though competent
to disenthral itself from the despotism of an unnatu-

480
1822.

The
Gr=nara.

I

CASES IN THE SUPREDIE COURT

ral parent, and therefore, to wage a civil war, does
not thereby become a nation or state, invested with
all the high privileges of sovereignty. What would
be the consequences of a contrary doctrine ? Every
minute division of an empire might per salurn be.
come a nation, claiming, and asserting, all the prerogatives of free and independent states. These
new-fledged, self-constituted, unorganized hordes of
people, perhaps .only half civilized, might then well
assert their claim to sit in the councils of the great
family of nations. They would claim the rights of
embassy, of establishing consulates, and of inflicting
all the rigours of public wars,as blockades, visitation
and search, impressments, seizure, and confiscation
of contraband. Such an individual as Artigas, whom
no one knows, might, under this doctrine, claim -to
exercise every belligerent right, and, in waging his
triple war, might capture, under the right of blockade, the vessels of every nation presuming to enter
Buenos Ayres, Maldonado, Lisboni or the- mouth of
the Tagus, though he possessed not a single seaport, or a single vessel of his own. It is, therefore,
presumed that every colony recognized as engaged
in a civil war for the assertion of its independence i
must:rigidly restrict itself to the contest with the parent 60ountry and its allies; and cannot wage a distinct, and independent war with other nations. If,
therefore, the Banda Oriental be regarded as on the
same footing with Buenos Ayres, or Venezuela, it
cannot war against Portugal : for no alliance.is pretended between Spain and Portugal, and if it wore

OF THE UNITED STATES,
1822.
asserted, it must be proved." The cofitest between
The
Artigas and Portdgal originated in a special cause,
Pam
Gran
the
viz.
purpose,
special
a
for
and was prosecuted
recovery of Monte Video, which had been taken
possession of by the Portuguese, because Spanish
supremacy having ceased to operate there, the Spaniards had carried on a series of the most vexatious
depredations on the adjoining Portuguese provinces)
which it became the imperious duty of Portugal to
check and terminate. Spain, on the other hatnd, was
engaged in -a war with some of its provinces, for
general, and very different objects: the conflict,
therefore, between Portugal and Artigas, could not
by implication, make the former an ally of Spain.
If-the government recognition be a limited and parStial one, (as it certainly is,) so should the effects of
such recognition be-partial. The fact recognized by
this government, is, that a civil war rages between
Spain and her South American provinces. In regard to.,Buenos Ayres, and Venezuela, this w3s cerk
4ainly the fact Vbut government did not mean, thereby, to acknowledge the independence of these provindes. The effect of this recognition is defined by
the Court, in Palmer'scase, and -.that of the Divina
Pastora, to be, that the Courts of this country will
not regard as criminal,those acts of hostility which
the province may direct against its epemy ; nor will
they undertake to judge of the validity -of captures
made under their commission, unless the maintenance of our laws and neutrality should require it.
S1 Ves. 283. 292.
VOL. VTY

01

482

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Thd acliiowledged'competency, .therefore, of these
.provinces, to wage a civil War, does not clothe them
GranPara. with any po.wers beyond the sphere of the necessary
operation of this light- they have no right to war
with other nations, nor to claim the attributes and'
powpre of, sovereign states. I' this be sound in regard .tothe known provinces, it must hbb emphatically
so in relition. to the Banda Oriental, and its chieftain; wh6 claims not- only to war with Spain and
her provinces, ,but with Portugal likewise, which is
no- way connected with either..
Again ;.there having been no express recognition'
of the existence-of a civil war between Jose Artigas
and -Spain; can this -Court imply such recognition
from any circumitandes ?, It would seem not. The
power to regard a people emerging, from barbarism
to civilization and government; or from a colonial,
to.an indepefident state, is a prerogative exclusively
of the government-a Courts are bound to regard the
apciene ttate bf things ds remaining, until there be a
recoghition by the proper 'authority, and, therefore,
though it be competeht tor Courts to declare that a
people do not constitute a state; they cannot affirmativelydeclare, that they are a state. Nor isit competent for this Court to recognize the existence of a
civil war : this, alsoj is a government power, and if
theie be no such express recognition of the fact of a
civil war between the Banda Oriental and Spain,
this Court will not infer it from the use of a general
1825

Thle

a 9 Ves. 347. 10 Ves. 353. Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 272.
Geiston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. Rep. 209. 295. 324.

OF-TVE UNITED. STATES.
1822.
expression, such as, "S.onth American provincesY
The doctririe laid down. by this ,Court in Palmer's
case2 (in which -a distinction was taken between -an Gr-aam.
unqualified recognition of 'thp .independence of a
people, and a partial-recognition resulting from the
admi.ssion of. the existence of a civil war between a
-colony and fhe parentstate,) is in 'n degree at variance-ii1ith. ihe.princi le established in the previous
cdse -ofRos v. Hntelyh and Gelston,v..Hoyt, "that
.Coihrs d0&.pt pdsses the power of -first xecognizing
the-national character of -a people," -Whether the
reoognition-b.hqnqualified or plrtial, th government
must .-speak. disti~wtly; otherwise,, the Courts will
.legardthe ancient state of tliings; and all acts done
on-the,.high seas, under the authority of such separated -peopld will be looked on as wholly unauthorized
-and .nu!l

,.ani~s,.isa ciz~e~a of the Uni-3.:Tie-cla
ted States ,.andappears before -this,Courtas a claimant for'protpMrty.-procured through -means forbidden
by.the lawsof the country, and the duties and obligatidns 'of.agood qitizen, 'He is an unw6riltyclaimint, and as such will -npt be. permitted to 'clim the
result -of his - own wrongs,, and illegal acts. "A
claim," says Sir William Scott, "foundedon piracy,
or any other act,-.which in the general estimation of
mankind is held to be illegal or immoral, might, I
presume, be rejected in any Court on that ground
,alkne- ; and Mr. Justice JoaNsoN,'iu the,.case of
a 3 Wheat. Rep. 610.

6 The Diana, I Docdson, 95. 100.

484
1822.
, The
Gran Para.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the Bello Corrunes, expresses himself emphatically
to the same effect.0
4. With respect to there being no proof as to the
seizure of the Gran Para, from which the money
libelled is alleged to have been taken, it is presumed
that this is altogether immaterial. The libel states
the fact of the seizure of the Gran Para, and other
Portuguese vessels ; the answer expressly admits the
taking of the money in controversy, and other money, from Portuguese vessels, and the inquiry is,
whether it be the Portuguese property, and if so,
whether it were rightfully taken.
Mr. Winder,' in reply, insisted that the Court
would confine its interference -to such cases of illegal
capture, as would make the United States responsible to the injured foreign country, by the law Of na.
tions, or to such acts as are in violation of our statutes of neutrality; restraining their operation to such
provisions as are required and justified by the public law. He compared this case to the analogous
one of carrying contraband. The neutral nation
was not responsible. The building of ships for sale
was a lawful branch of commerce, and even if they
were armed and equipped for war, they could only
be considered as contraband ; and though they might
be subject to the penalty of confiscation, if taken in
their transit to a belligerent, yet, if once incorporated
into the mass of his military marine, they could be
considered by neutrals in no other light than the
rest of his naval force. But even supposing the oria 6 Wieat. Rep. 172.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

485

ginal outfit in the ports of the United States to have
1822.
been illegal, the vessel" was not commissioned as a
Tho
privateer, nor did she attempt to act as one, until her Graft para.
arrival in the river La Plata, when a lawful commission was obtained, and the crew "re-enlisted. Even
if she had made captures on her outward voyage, the
delictum .would be purged by the termination of that
voyage, according to the analogies of the maritime
law in other cases. This Court has never yet determined that the original offence is indelible, and
that it adheres to the vessel, whatever changes may
have taken place, and that it cannot be deposited at
the termination of the cruize, in preparing for which,
the offence was committed; and as the Irresistible
made no captures on her passage from Baltimore to
the River La Plata, and even if she had, the
offence was deposited at the latter port, the Court
cannot connect her subsequent cruize with the transactions at Baltimore, or those which might have
happened on her outward voyage. The learned
counsel also argued, that the Banda Oriebtal was a
sovereign state de facto, which had been acknowledged by the executive government of this country,
as one of the parties to the war between Spain and
her Colonies, and which was engaged in an incidental contest with Portugal, which gave it the rights of
war in respect to that power. He algo insisted on
such of the points in his argument on a.former day,
in the case of the Santissima Trinidad,as were applicable to the present. But as they will be found re-

486
1822.
Ile

Gran Para.
.arch 13a.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ported at large-in that casea it is not deemed necessary to repeat them in this place.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:
The principle is now firmly settled; that prizes,
made by vessels which, have violated th; acts .of
Congress, that have been enacted- for the preservation of the neutrality of the United States, if
brought within their territory, shall be restored.
The only question therefore is, does this case come
within the principle.
That the Irresistible was purchased, and that she
sailed out of the port of Baltimore, armed and -manned as a vessf, of war, for the purpose of being employed as a cruizer against a nation with whom .the
United States were at peace, is too clear for controversy. That the arms and ammunition were cleared
out as cargo cannot vary the case. Nor is it thought
to be material that the men were enlisted in form as
for a common mercantile .voyage. There is nothing
resembling .a commercial adventure in any part of
the transaction. The vessel, was constructed for
war, and not for commerce. There was no cargo on
board but what was adapted to the purposes of war.
The crew was too numerous for a merchantman,
and was sufficient for a privateer. These circumstances demonstrate the intent with which the Irresistible sailed out of the port of Baltimore.

a Ante.

pp. 290-296.

OY THE UITED STATES.

487

But she was not commissioned as a privateer, nor
182-.
did she attempt to act as one, until she reached the
The
river La Plata, -when a commission was obtai'ned, Grn Fm-ra
and the crew re-enlisted. This Court has never decided, that the offence adheres to the vessel whatever changes may have taken place, and cannot be
deposited at. the termination of the cruize in preparing for which it was committed ;"and as the Irresistible made no prize on her passage from Balti-more to the River La Plata, it is contended that her
offence was deposited there, and that the Court cannot connect her -subsequent cruize with the transactions of Baltimore.
If this-were to be admitted -in such a case as this,
the laws for the preservation of our neutrality would
be completely eluded, so far as this enforcement depends -on the restitution of prizes made in violation
of them. Vessels completely fitted in our ports for
military operations, need only sail to a belligerent
port, and' there, after obtaining a commission, go
through the ceremony of discharging and re-enlisting their crew, to become perfectly legitimate
- cruizers, purified from every taint contracted at the
place where all their real force and capacity for
annoyance was acquired. This would, indeed,
be a fraudulent neutrality, disgraceful to our own
government and of which no nation would be the
dupe. It is impossible for a moment to disguise the
fats, that the -arms and ammunition taken on board
the Irresistible at Baltimore, were taken for the purpose of being used on a cruize, and that the men
there enlisted, though engaged, in form, as for a
-

488
1822.

The
Gran Para

CASES IN THF SUPREME COURT

commercial voyage, were not so engaged in fact.
There was no commercial voyage, and no individual of the crew could believe that there was one.

Although there might be no express stipulation to
serve on board the Irresistible, after her reaching
the La Plata, and obtaining a commission, it must
be completely understood that such was to be the
fact. For what other purpose could they have undertaken this voyage. Every thing they saw, every
thing that was done, spoke a language too plain to
be misunderstood.
The act of June, 1794, c. 296. declares, that "if
any person shall, within the territory or jurisdiction of
the United States," "hire or retain another person
to go beyond the limits or jurisdiction of the United
States, with intent to be enlisted or entered in the
service of any foreign prince or state as a soldier, or
as a mariner, or seaman, on board of any vessel of
war, letter of marque, or privateer, every person so
offending, shall be guilty of a high misdemeanor,)) &c.
Now if the crew of the Irresistible were not enlisted in the port of Baltimore, to cruize under the
commission afterwards obtained, it cannot, we think,
be doubted, but that they were "hired or retained
to go beyond the limits or jurisdiction of the United
States, with intent to be enlisted or entered" into
that service. For what other purpose were they
hired in the port of Baltimore for the voyage to
La Plata ?
The third section makes it penal for any person,
within any of the waters of the United States, to be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.489

"knowingly concerned in the furnishing, fitting out,
1822.
br" atning of any ship or Vessel, with intent that
The
such ship or vessel shall be employed in the service Gr Para.
of any foreign prince, or state, to cruize," &c.
It is to6 cigar for controversy, that.the Irresistible
comes within'this section of the law also.
The act of 1-817, c. 5.8. adapts the previous laws
-to the actual situation of the world, by adding to the
words, "of any toreign prince or state," the words,
"or of aniy colony, district, .or people," &c. The
act of April, 1818, c. 83. re-enacts the acts of 179-,
1797, and 1817, with ome additional provisions.
It is, therefore, very.cleak, that the Irresistible
was armed and manned in Baltimore, -in violation of
thelaws and of the neutral obl.igations of the United
States. We do not think that any. circumstances
took place in the river La Plata, by force of which
this taint was removed. To the objection that
there is no proof that aiiy part of the money was
taken out of a vessel called the "'Gran Para," it
need only be answered, that the allegation of the
libel, is, that she was called the "1Gran .Para, or
by some other name."
Decree affirmed with costs.

VOL. VII.

