PEEPLES v. BROWN
Opinion in Chambers

PEEPLES v. BROWN, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY AND INJUNCTION PENDING APPEAL

No. A-452.

Decided November 29, 1979

Application for stay and injunction pending appeal from the Court of
Appeals' order denying a stay pending appeal to that court from the
District Court's judgment for respondents in applicant's action for
injunctive relief against his discharge from the Navy for sexual misconduct, is denied. The application does not clearly indicate what
grounds applicant would urge upon the Court of Appeals in seeking
reversal of the District Court's judgment, what the transcript showed
to support the administrative findings, or what the law prescribes as to
the standards of administrative and judicial review of the proceedings
leading to his discharge. Even if applicant's claim on the merits were
more comprehensible and persuasive, he still failed to show the necessary irreparable injury required for a mandatory injunction.

Circuit Justice.
Applicant Peeples has presented me with what his attorney
denominates as "Application for Stay and Injunction Pending
Appeal," "pending appeal from an order of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit denying him a stay
pending appeal to said court." Application 1. I have quoted
verbatim from the application in order to permit some insight
into my firm conviction that I have no idea as to what
grounds applicant would urge upon the Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit in seeking reversal of the judgment of the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
California. The application is a hodgepodge of assertions as
to the applicant's good character, his 19 years of service in the
United States Navy, and his participation in an alcoholism
therapy program.
Applicant complains at one point in the application, id.,
at 3, that some of the evidence considered by the Administrative Discharge Board related to a prior enlistment and,
under a precedent decided by the Court of Appeals for the
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

444 U. S.

Ninth Circuit, should not have been considered; applicant
also states that he made "disclosures to his doctors of isolated
apparent incidents of off-duty off-base homosexual behavior
while severely intoxicated," ibid., although on the 'same page
of the application he alleges that "[a]ll of the examining
Navy doctors and alcohol counselors stated that he was not
homosexual." Ibid. (emphasis in original).
According to the application, applicant's chief convened an
Administrative Discharge Board, which heard the evidence
obtained during therapy and, over his protest, found him
guilty of acts of sexual misconduct and recommended his
discharge. He then appealed his discharge to the Secretary
of the Navy, who denied the appeal without "any basis in fact
or written explanation, and ordered his immediate discharge
within 5 working days, whereupon he sought injunctive
relief from the United States District Court for the Northern
District of California." Id., at 4. Respondents agreed that
applicant would be retained in the service at Treasure Island,
Cal., pending the hearing of the preliminary injunction; meanwhile, according to applicant, his request for discovery under
the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U. S. C. ยง 552, was objected to "and the District Court below refused to rule on
Appellant's motion to compel." Application 5.
Thereafter, still according to the application, "[tihe District
Court granted [respondents'] motion for summary judgment
and declined to rule on [applicant's] motion for a preliminary
injunction. A 10-day stay pending appeal to the Ninth Circuit was granted by the trial court. On November 23, 1979,
the Ninth Circuit denied [applicant's] Emergency Motion for
a stay and injunction pending appeal whereupon the instant
motion was filed." Ibid.
Applicant urges that he will suffer irreparable injury because
he has 19 years of time in the service, because he will be
stigmatized by discharge for sexual misconduct, because he will
lose flight time, and because "[s] uch a traumatic rejection by
the government to whom he has given loyal service could

PEEPLES v. BROWN
1303

1305

Opinion in Chambers

more than likely destroy the successful alcohol rehabilitation
efforts to date." Ibid.
Applicant's moving papers, though consisting of nine typewritten pages, are remarkably skimpy in their reference to
decisions of this Court. O'Callahanv. Parker, 395 U. S. 258
(1969); Vitarelli v. Seaton, 359 U. S.535 (1959); Harmon v.
Brucker, 355 U. S. 579 (1958); Service v. Dulles, 354 U. S.363
(1957); and SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U. S. 194 (1947), are
the only cases cited, with no more than cryptic allusions to
their relevance to this case.
Applicant makes no effort to indicate what the less than
verbatim transcript before the Administrative Discharge
Board indicated by way of support for the findings of that
Board, or what the law prescribes as the standard of review for the Secretary of the Navy in reviewing the action
of the Administrative Discharge Board. Applicant's moving papers even fail to identify either the standard of review
of the United States District Court or that of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in reviewing
the action of the District Court unfavorable to applicant.
In short, I am presented with what applicant's attorney
undoubtedly feels is an appealing set of facts, but with virtually no law to accompany them. If either the District
Court or the Court of Appeals gave any explanation for their
conclusion in the form of an opinion or memorandum order,
applicant has not seen fit to attach them to his application
here. Even if applicant's claim on the merits were more
comprehensible and persuasive, in my judgment he would
still have failed to show the necessary irreparable injury
required for a mandatory injunction. As this Court noted in
Sampson v. Murray, 415 U. S. 61, 91 (1974), the legislative
history of the Back Pay Act, 5 U. S. C. ยง 5596, "suggests that
Congress contemplated that [that Act] would be the usual,
if not the exclusive, remedy for wrongful discharge."
Since what applicant actually seeks is not a "stay" in any
orthodox sense of that term, but an injunction from me, a

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

444 U. S.

,single Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States,
'forbidding the carrying out of the judgment of the Administrative Discharge Board, the Secretary of the Navy, the District Court, and the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
he labors under a heavy burden indeed. In my opinion, he
has not met that burden, and his application is accordingly
Denied.

