OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

MILLER ET AL. v. JOHNSON ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA
No. 94-631. Argued April 19, 1995-Decided June 29, 1995*
In Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630, this Court articulated the equal protection
principles that govern a State's drawing of congressional districts, noting that laws that explicitly distinguish between individuals on racial
grounds fall within the core of the Equal Protection Clause's prohibition
against race-based decisionmaking, that this prohibition extends to laws
neutral on their face but unexplainable on grounds other than race, and
that redistricting legislation that is so bizarre on its face that it is unexplainable on grounds other than race demands the same strict scrutiny
given to other state laws that classify citizens by race. Georgia's most
recent congressional districting plan contains three majority-black districts and was adopted after the Justice Department refused to preclear,
under § 5 of the Voting Rights Act (Act), two earlier plans that each
contained only two majority-black districts. Appellees, voters in the
new Eleventh District-which joins metropolitan black neighborhoods
together with the poor black populace of coastal areas 260 miles awaychallenged the district on the ground that it was a racial gerrymander
in violation of the Equal Protection Clause as interpreted in Shaw. The
District Court agreed, holding that evidence of the state legislature's
purpose, as well as the district's irregular borders, showed that race
was the overriding and predominant force in the districting determination. The court assumed that compliance with the Act would be a compelling interest, but found that the plan was not narrowly tailored to
meet that interest since the Act did not require three majority-black
districts.
Held Georgia's congressional redistricting plan violates the Equal Protection Clause. Pp. 910-928.
(a) Parties alleging that a State has assigned voters on the basis of
race are neither confined in their proof to evidence regarding a district's
geometry and makeup nor required to make a threshold showing of
bizarreness. A district's shape is relevant to Shaw's equal protection
analysis not because bizarreness is a necessary element of the constitu*Together with No. 94-797, Abrams et al. v. Johnson et al., and No.
94-929, United States v. Johnson et al., also on appeal from the same
court.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Syllabus
tional wrong or a threshold requirement of proof, but because it may be
persuasive circumstantial evidence that race for its own sake, and not
other districting principles, was a legislature's dominant and controlling
rationale in drawing district lines. In some exceptional cases, a reapportionment plan may be so highly irregular that, on its face, it rationally cannot be understood as anything other than an effort to segregate
voters based on race, but where the district is not so bizarre, parties
may rely on other evidence to establish race-based districting. The
very stereotypical assumptions the Equal Protection Clause forbids underlie the argument that the Clause's general proscription on race-based
decisionmaking does not obtain in the districting context because redistricting involves racial consideration. While redistricting usually implicates a political calculus in which various interests compete for recognition, it does not follow that individuals of the same race share a single
political interest. Nor can the analysis used to assess the vote dilution
claim in United Jewish Organizationsof Williamsburgh,Inc. v. Carey,
430 U. S. 144, be applied to resuscitate this argument. Pp. 910-915.
(b) Courts must exercise extraordinary caution in adjudicating claims
that a State has drawn race-based district lines. The plaintiff must
show, whether through circumstantial evidence of a district's shape and
demographics or more direct evidence of legislative purpose, that race
was the predominant factor motivating the legislature's decision to place
a significant number of voters within or without a district. To make
this showing, a plaintiff must prove that the legislature subordinated
traditional race-neutral districting principles, including but not limited
to compactness, contiguity, respect for political subdivisions or communities defined by actual shared interests, to racial considerations.
Pp. 915-917.
(c) The District Court applied the correct analysis here, and its finding that race was the predominant factor motivating the Eleventh
District's drawing was not clearly erroneous. It need not be decided
whether the district's shape, standing alone, was sufficient to establish
that the district is unexplainable on grounds other than race, for there
is considerable additional evidence showing that the state legislature
was motivated by a predominant, overriding desire to create a third
majority-black district in order to comply with the Justice Department's
preclearance demands. The District Court's well-supported finding
justified its rejection of thq various alternative explanations offered for
the district. Appellants cannot refute the claim of racial gerrymandering by arguing the legislature complied with traditional districting principles, since those factors were subordinated to racial objectives. Nor
are there tangible communities of interest spanning the district's hundreds of miles that can be called upon to rescue the plan. Since race

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Syllabus
was the predominant, overriding factor behind the Eleventh District's
drawing, the State's plan is subject to strict scrutiny and can be sustained only if it is narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling state
interest. Pp. 917-920.
(d) While there is a significant state interest in eradicating the effects
of past racial discrimination, there is little doubt that Georgia's true
interest was to satisfy the Justice Department's preclearance demands.
Even if compliance with the Act, standing alone, could provide a compelling interest, it cannot do so here, where the district was not reasonably
necessary under a constitutional reading and application of the Act. To
say that the plan was required in order to obtain preclearance is not to
say that it was required by the Act's substantive requirements. Georgia's two earlier plans were ameliorative and could not have violated § 5
unless they so discriminated on the basis of race or color as to violate
the Constitution. However, instead of grounding its objections on evidence of a discriminatory purpose, the Justice Department appears to
have been driven by its maximization policy. In utilizing § 5 to require
States to create majority-minority districts whenever possible, the Department expanded its statutory authority beyond Congress' intent for
§5: to insure that no voting-procedure changes would be made that
would lead to a retrogression in the position of racial minorities with
respect to their effective exercise of the electoral franchise. The policy
also raises serious constitutional concerns because its implicit command
that States may engage in presumptive unconstitutional race-based districting brings the Act, once upheld as a proper exercise of Congress'
Fifteenth Amendment authority, into tension with the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 920-927.
864 F. Supp. 1354, affirmed and remanded.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and O'CONNOR, ScALA, and THOMAS, JJ., joined. O'CONNOR, J., filed
a concurring opinion, post, p. 928. STEVENS, J., filed a dissenting opinion,
post, p. 929. GINSBURG, J., ified a dissenting opinion, in which STEVENS
and BREYER, JJ., joined, and in which SOUTER, J., joined except as to Part
III-B, post, p. 934.

David F. Walbert, Special Assistant Attorney General of
Georgia, argued the cause for the state and private appellants. With him on the briefs for appellants Miller et al.
were Michael J Bowers, Attorney General, and Dennis R.
Dunn, Senior Assistant Attorney General. Solicitor General Days argued the cause for the United States. With

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

him on the briefs were Assistant Attorney General Patrick,
Deputy Solicitor General Bender, James A. Feldman, Steven H. Rosenbaum, and Miriam R. Eisenstein. Laughlin
McDonald, Neil Bradley, Elaine R. Jones, Theodore M.
Shaw, Norman J Chachkin, Jacqueline A. Berrien, and
Gerald R. Weber filed briefs for appellants Abrams et al.
A. Lee Parks argued the cause for appellees. With him
on the brief was Larry H. Chesin.t
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The constitutionality of Georgia's congressional redistricting plan is at issue here. In Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630
(1993), we held that a plaintiff states a claim under the Equal
Protection Clause by alleging that a state redistricting plan,
on its face, has no rational explanation save as an effort to
separate voters on the basis of race. The question we now
decide is whether Georgia's new Eleventh District gives rise
to a valid equal protection claim under the principles anJUSTICE KENNEDY

tBriefs of amici curiaeurging reversal were filed for the State of Texas
et al. by Dan Morales, Attorney General of Texas, Jorge Vega, First Assistant Attorney General, and Renea Hicks, State Solicitor, and Michael
F. Easley, Attorney General of North Carolina; for the Congressional
Black Caucus by A Leon Higginbotham,Jr.; for the Democratic National
Committee et al. by Wayne Arden and Donald J Simon; for the Georgia
Association of Black Elected Officials by Eben Moglen and PamelaS. Karlan; for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law by Michael
A Cooper, Herbert J Hansell, Thomas J Henderson, Brenda Wright, J
Gerald Hebert, Nicholas deB. Katzenbach, and Alan E. Kraus; for the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund et al. by Charisse
R. Lillie, Karen Narasaki, Wade Henderson, Dennis Courtland Hayes,
Kim Gandy, Deborah Ellis, Rodney G. Gregory, Elliot Mincberg, and
Donna R. Lenhoff; and for the National Voting Rights Institute by
JaminRaskin.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were fied for the AntiDefamation League by F Peter Phillips, Jeffrey P. Sinensky, Steven M.
Freeman,Debbie N. Kaminer,and MartinE. Karlinsky; for the Washington Legal Foundation et al. by Daniel J. Popeo and Richard A Samp; and
for Ruth 0. Shaw et al. by Robinson 0. Everett and Clifford Dougherty.
William C. Owens, Jr., filed a brief for A. J. Pate as amicus curiae.

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

nounced in Shaw, and, if so, whether it can be sustained
nonetheless as narrowly tailored to serve a compelling
governmental interest.
I
A
The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment provides that no State shall "deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." U. S.
Const., Amdt. 14, § 1. Its central mandate is racial neutrality in governmental decisionmaking. See, e. g., Loving v.
Virginia, 388 U. S. 1, 11 (1967); McLaughlin v. Florida,379
U. S. 184, 191-192 (1964); see also Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483 (1954). Though application of this imperative raises difficult questions, the basic principle is straightforward: "Racial and ethnic distinctions of any sort are
inherently suspect and thus call for the most exacting judicial examination ....
This perception of racial and ethnic
distinctions is rooted in our Nation's constitutional and demographic history." Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438
U. S. 265, 291 (1978) (opinion of Powell, J.). This rule obtains
with equal force regardless of "the race of those burdened
or benefited by a particular classification." Richmond v.
J A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469, 494 (1989) (plurality opinion)
(citations omitted); id., at 520 (SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment) ("I agree... with JUSTICE O'CONNOR'S conclusion that
strict scrutiny must be applied to all governmental classification by race"); see also Adarand Constructors, Inc. v.
Pefia, ante, at 224; Bakke, supra, at 289-291 (opinion of Powell, J.). Laws classifying citizens on the basis of race cannot
be upheld unless they are narrowly tailored to achieving a
compelling state interest. See, e. g., Adarand, ante, at 227;
Croson, supra,at 494 (plurality opinion); Wygant v. Jackson
Bd. of Ed., 476 U. S. 267, 274, 280, and n. 6 (1986) (plurality
opinion).

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

In Shaw v. Reno, supra, we recognized that these equal
protection principles govern a State's drawing of congressional districts, though, as our cautious approach there discloses, application of these principles to electoral districting
is a most delicate task. Our analysis began from the premise that "[f]aws that explicitly distinguish between individuals on racial grounds fall within the core of [the Equal Protection Clause's] prohibition." Id., at 642. This prohibition
extends not just to explicit racial classifications, but also to
laws neutral on their face but "'unexplainable on grounds
other than race."' Id., at 644 (quoting Arlington Heights v.
MetropolitanHousingDevelopment Corp., 429 U. S.252, 266
(1977)). Applying this basic equal protection analysis in the
voting rights context, we held that "redistricting legislation
that is so bizarre on its face that it is 'unexplainable on
grounds other than race,' ... demands the same close scrutiny that we give other state laws that classify citizens by
race." 509 U. S., at 644 (quoting Arlington Heights, supra,
at 266).
This litigation requires us to apply the principles articulated in Shaw to the most recent congressional redistricting
plan enacted by the State of Georgia.
B
In 1965, the Attorney General designated Georgia a covered jurisdiction under §4(b) of the Voting Rights Act (Act),
79 Stat. 438, as amended, 42 U. S. C. § 1973b(b). 30 Fed.
Reg. 9897 (1965); see 28 CFR pt. 51, App.; see also City of
Rome v. United States, 446 U. S.156, 161 (1980). In consequence, § 5 of the Act requires Georgia to obtain either administrative preclearance by the Attorney General or approval by the United States District Court for the District
of Columbia of any change in a "standard, practice, or procedure with respect to voting" made after November 1, 1964.
42 U. S. C. § 1973c. The preclearance mechanism applies to

MILLER v. JOHNSON

Opinion of the Court

congressional redistricting plans, see, e. g., Beer v. United
States, 425 U. S. 130, 133 (1976), and requires that the proposed change "not have the purpose and will not have the
effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account
of race or color." 42 U. S. C. § 1973c. "[T]he purpose of § 5
has always been to insure that no voting-procedure changes
would be made that would lead to a retrogression in the
position of racial minorities with respect to their effective
exercise of the electoral franchise." Beer, supra, at 141.
Between 1980 and 1990, one of Georgia's 10 congressional
districts was a majority-black district, that is, a majority of
the district's voters were black. The 1990 Decennial Census
indicated that Georgia's population of 6,478,216 persons, 27%
of whom are black, entitled it to an additional eleventh congressional seat, App. 9, prompting Georgia's General Assembly to redraw the State's congressional districts. Both the
House and the Senate adopted redistricting guidelines
which, among other things, required single-member districts
of equal population, contiguous geography, nondilution of minority voting strength, fidelity to precinct lines where possible, and compliance with §§2 and 5 of the Act, 42 U. S. C.
§§ 1973, 1973c. See App. 11-12. Only after these requirements were met did the guidelines permit drafters to consider other ends, such as maintaining the integrity of political subdivisions, preserving the core of existing districts, and
avoiding contests between incumbents. Id., at 12.
A special session opened in August 1991, and the General
Assembly submitted a congressional redistricting plan to the
Attorney General for preclearance on October 1, 1991. The
legislature's plan contained two majority-minority districts,
the Fifth and Eleventh, and an additional district, the Second, in which blacks comprised just over 35% of the voting
age population. Despite the plan's increase in the number
of majority-black districts from one to two and the absence
of any evidence of an intent to discriminate against minority
voters, 864 F. Supp. 1354, 1363, and n. 7 (SD Ga. 1994), the

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Department of Justice refused preclearance on January 21,
1992. App. 99-107. The Department's objection letter
noted a concern that Georgia had created only two majorityminority districts, and that the proposed plan did not "recognize" certain minority populations by placing them in a
majority-black district. Id., at 105, 105-106.
The General Assembly returned to the drawing board. A
new plan was enacted and submitted for preclearance. This
second attempt assigned the black population in Central
Georgia's Baldwin County to the Eleventh District and increased the black populations in the Eleventh, Fifth, and
Second Districts. The Justice Department refused preclearance again, relying on alternative plans proposing three
majority-minority districts. Id., at 120-126. One of the
alternative schemes relied on by the Department was the
so-called "max-black" plan, 864 F. Supp., at 1360, 1362-1363,
drafted by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) for
the General Assembly's black caucus. The key to the
ACLU's plan was the "Macon/Savannah trade." The dense
black population in the Macon region would be transferred
from the Eleventh District to the Second, converting the
Second into a majority-black district, and the Eleventh District's loss in black population would be offset by extending
the Eleventh to include the black populations in Savannah.
Id., at 1365-1366. Pointing to the General Assembly's refusal to enact the Macon/Savannah swap into law, the Justice
Department concluded that Georgia had "failed to explain
adequately" its failure to create a third majority-minority
district. App. 125. The State did not seek a declaratory
judgment from the District Court for the District of Columbia. 864 F. Supp., at 1366, n. 11.
Twice spurned, the General Assembly set out to create
three majority-minority districts to gain preclearance. Id.,
at 1366. Using the ACLU's "max-black" plan as its benchmark, id., at 1366-1367, the General Assembly enacted a
plan that

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

"bore all the signs of [the Justice Department's] involvement: The black population of Meriwether County was
gouged out of the Third District and attached to the
Second District by the narrowest of land bridges; Effingham and Chatham Counties were split to make way
for the Savannah extension, which itself split the City of
Savannah; and the plan as a whole split 26 counties, 23
more than the existing congressional districts." Id., at
1367.
See Appendix A, infra, following p. 928. The new plan also
enacted the Macon/Savannah swap necessary to create a
third majority-black district. The Eleventh District lost the
black population of Macon, but picked up Savannah, thereby
connecting the black neighborhoods of metropolitan Atlanta
and the poor black populace of coastal Chatham County,
though 260 miles apart in distance and worlds apart in culture. In short, the social, political, and economic makeup of
the Eleventh District tells a tale of disparity, not community.
See 864 F. Supp., at 1376-1377, 1389-1390; Plaintiff's Exh.
No. 85, pp. 10-27 (report of Timothy G. O'Rourke, Ph.D.).
As the appendices to this opinion attest,
"[t]he populations of the Eleventh are centered around
four discrete, widely spaced urban centers that have absolutely nothing to do with each other, and stretch the
district hundreds of miles across rural counties and narrow swamp corridors." 864 F. Supp., at 1389 (footnote
omitted).
"The dense population centers of the approved Eleventh
District were all majority-black, all at the periphery of
the district, and in the case of Atlanta, Augusta and
Savannah, all tied to a sparsely populated rural core by
even less populated land bridges. Extending from
Atlanta to the Atlantic, the Eleventh covered 6,784.2
square miles, splitting eight counties and five municipalities along the way." Id., at 1367 (footnote omitted).

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

The Almanac of American Politics has this to say about
the Eleventh District: "Geographically, it is a monstrosity,
stretching from Atlanta to Savannah. Its core is the plantation country in the center of the state, lightly populated,
but heavily black. It links by narrow corridors the black
neighborhoods in Augusta, Savannah and southern DeKalb
County." M. Barone & G. Ujifusa, Almanac of American
Politics 356 (1994). Georgia's plan included three majorityblack districts, though, and received Justice Department
preclearance on April 2, 1992. Plaintiff's Exh. No. 6; see
864 F. Supp., at 1367.
Elections were held under the new congressional redistricting plan on November 4, 1992, and black candidates were
elected to Congress from all three majority-black districts.
Id., at 1369. On January 13, 1994, appellees, five white voters from the Eleventh District, filed this action against various state officials (Miller Appellants) in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Georgia. Id., at
1369, 1370. As residents of the challenged Eleventh District, all appellees had standing. See United States v. Hays,
ante, at 744-745. Their suit alleged that Georgia's Eleventh
District was a racial gerrymander and so a violation of the
Equal Protection Clause as interpreted in Shaw v. Reno. A
three-judge court was convened pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
§ 2284, and the United States and a number of Georgia residents intervened in support of the defendant-state officials.
A majority of the District Court panel agreed that the
Eleventh District was invalid under Shaw, with one judge
dissenting. 864 F. Supp. 1354 (1994). After sharp criticism of the Justice Department for its use of partisan advocates in its dealings with state officials and for its close cooperation with the ACLU's vigorous advocacy of minority
district maximization, the majority turned to a careful interpretation of our opinion in Shaw. It read Shaw to require
strict scrutiny whenever race is the "overriding, predominant force" in the redistricting process. 864 F. Supp., at

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

1372 (emphasis deleted). Citing much evidence of the legislature's purpose and intent in creating the final plan, as well
as the irregular shape of the district (in particular several
appendages drawn for the obvious purpose of putting black
populations into the district), the court found that race was
the overriding and predominant force in the districting determination. Id., at 1378. The court proceeded to apply
strict scrutiny. Though rejecting proportional representation as a compelling interest, it was willing to assume that
compliance with the Act would be a compelling interest.
Id., at 1381-1382. As to the latter, however, the court found
that the Act did not require three majority-black districts,
and that Georgia's plan for that reason was not narrowly
tailored to the goal of complying with the Act. Id., at
1392-1393.
Appellants filed notices of appeal and requested a stay of
the District Court's judgment, which we granted pending the
filing and disposition of the appeals in this litigation, Miller
v. Johnson, 512 U. S. 1283 (1994). We later noted probable
jurisdiction. 513 U. S. 1071 (1995); see 28 U. S. C. § 1253.
II
A
Finding that the "evidence of the General Assembly's
intent to racially gerrymander the Eleventh District is
overwhelming, and practically stipulated by the parties
involved," the District Court held that race was the
predominant, overriding factor in drawing the Eleventh District. 864 F. Supp., at 1374; see id., at 1374-1378. Appellants do not take issue with the court's factual finding of this
racial motivation. Rather, they contend that evidence of a
legislature's deliberate classification of voters on the basis of
race cannot alone suffice to state a claim under Shaw. They
argue that, regardless of the legislature's purposes, a plaintiff must demonstrate that a district's shape is so bizarre that
it is unexplainable other than on the basis of race, and that

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

appellees failed to make that showing here. Appellants'
conception of the constitutional violation misapprehends our
holding in Shaw and the equal protection precedent upon
which Shaw relied.
Shaw recognized a claim "analytically distinct" from a
vote dilution claim. 509 U. S., at 652; see id., at 649-650.
Whereas a vote dilution claim alleges that the State has
enacted a particular voting scheme as a purposeful device
"to minimize or cancel out the voting potential of racial or
ethnic minorities," Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S. 55, 66 (1980)
(citing cases), an action disadvantaging voters of a particular
race, the essence of the equal protection claim recognized in
Shaw is that the State has used race as a basis for separating
voters into districts. Just as the State may not, absent
extraordinary justification, segregate citizens on the basis of
race in its public parks, New Orleans City Park Improvement Assn. v. Detiege, 358 U. S. 54 (1958) (per curiam),
buses, Gayle v. Browder, 352 U. S. 903 (1956) (per curiam),
golf courses, Holmes v. Atlanta, 350 U. S. 879 (1955) (per
curiam), beaches, Mayor of Baltimore v. Dawson, 350 U. S.
877 (1955) (per curiam), and schools, Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483 (1954), so did we recognize in Shaw
that it may not separate its citizens into different voting districts on the basis of race. The idea is a simple one: "At the
heart of the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection lies
the simple command that the Government must treat citizens
'as individuals, not "as simply components of a racial, religious, sexual or national class."'" Metro Broadcasting,Inc.
v. FCC, 497 U. S. 547, 602 (1990) (O'CONNOR, J., dissenting)
(quoting Arizona Governing Comm. for Tax Deferred Annuity and Deferred Compensation Plans v. Norris, 463 U. S.
1073, 1083 (1983)); cf. NortheasternFla.Chapter,Associated
Gen. Contractors of America v. Jacksonville, 508 U. S. 656,
666 (1993) ("'injury in fact'" was "denial of equal treatment
.... not the ultimate inability to obtain the benefit"). When
the State assigns voters on the basis of race, it engages in

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

the offensive and demeaning assumption that voters of a particular race, because of their race, "think alike, share the
same political interests, and will prefer the same candidates
at the polls." Shaw, supra, at 647; see Metro Broadcasting,
supra,at 636 (KENNEDY, J., dissenting). Race-based assignments "embody stereotypes that treat individuals as the
product of their race, evaluating their thoughts and effortstheir very worth as citizens-according to a criterion barred
to the Government by history and the Constitution." Metro
Broadcasting,supra, at 604 (O'CONNOR, J., dissenting) (citation omitted); see Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400, 410 (1991)
("Race cannot be a proxy for determining juror bias or
competence"); Palmore v. Sidoti, 466 U. S. 429, 432 (1984)
("Classifying persons according to their race is more likely
to reflect racial prejudice than legitimate public concerns;
the race, not the person, dictates the category"). They
also cause society serious harm. As we concluded in Shaw:
"Racial classifications with respect to voting carry particular dangers. Racial gerrymandering, even for remedial purposes, may balkanize us into competing racial
factions; it threatens to carry us further from the goal
of a political system in which race no longer mattersa goal that the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments
embody, and to which the Nation continues to aspire.
It is for these reasons that race-based districting by
our state legislatures demands close judicial scrutiny."
Shdw, supra, at 657.
Our observation in Shaw of the consequences of racial stereotyping was not meant to suggest that a district must be
bizarre on its face before there is a constitutional violation.
Nor was our conclusion in Shaw that in certain instances a
district's appearance (or, to be more precise, its appearance
in combination with certain demographic evidence) can give
rise to an equal protection claim, 509 U. S., at 649, a holding
that bizarreness was a threshold showing, as appellants be-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

lieve it to be. Our circumspect approach and narrow holding
in Shaw did not erect an artificial rule barring accepted
equal protection analysis in other redistricting cases.
Shape is relevant not because bizarreness is a necessary ele-.
ment of the constitutional wrong or a threshold requirement
of proof, but because it may be persuasive circumstantial evidence that race for its own sake, and not other districting
principles, was the legislature's dominant and controlling rationale in drawing its district lines. The logical implication,
as courts applying Shaw have recognized, is that parties may
rely on evidence other than bizarreness to establish racebased districting. See Shaw v. Hunt, 861 F. Supp. 408, 431
(EDNC 1994); Hays v. Louisiana, 839 F. Supp. 1188, 1195
(WD La. 1993), vacated, 512 U. S. 1230 (1994); but see DeWitt
v. Wilson, 856 F. Supp. 1409, 1413 (ED Cal. 1994).
Our reasoning in Shaw compels this conclusion. We
recognized in Shaw that, outside the districting context,
statutes are subject to strict scrutiny under the Equal Protection Clause not just when they contain express racial
classifications, but also when, though race neutral on their
face, they are motivated by a racial purpose or object. 509
U. S., at 644. In the rare case, where the effect of government action is a pattern "'unexplainable on grounds other
than race,'" ibid. (quoting Arlington Heights, 429 U. S., at
266), "[tlhe evidentiary inquiry is... relatively easy," Arlington Heights, supra, at 266 (footnote omitted). As early as
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356 (1886), the Court recognized that a laundry permit ordinance was administered in a
deliberate way to exclude all Chinese from the laundry business; and in Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S. 339 (1960), the
Court concluded that the redrawing of Tuskegee, Alabama's
municipal boundaries left no doubt that the plan was designed to exclude blacks. Even in those cases, however, it
was the presumed racial purpose of state action, not its stark
manifestation, that was the constitutional violation. Patterns of discrimination as conspicuous as these are rare, and

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

are not a necessary predicate to a violation of the Equal Protection Clause. Cf. Arlington Heights, supra, at 266, n. 14.
In the absence of a pattern as stark as those in Yick Wo or
Gomillion, "impact alone is not determinative, and the Court
must look to other evidence" of race-based decisionmaking.
Arlington Heights, supra, at 266 (footnotes omitted).
Shaw applied these same principles to redistricting. "In
some exceptional cases, a reapportionment plan may be so
highly irregular that, on its face, it rationally cannot be understood as anything other than an effort to 'segregat[e] ...
voters' on the basis of race." Shaw, supra, at 646-647 (quoting Gomillion, supra, at 341). In other cases, where the
district is not so bizarre on its face that it discloses a racial
design, the proof will be more "difficul[t]." 509 U. S., at 646.
Although it was not necessary in Shaw to consider further
the proof required in these more difficult cases, the logical
import of our reasoning is that evidence other than a district's bizarre shape can be used to support the claim.
Appellants and some of their amici argue that the Equal
Protection Clause's general proscription on race-based decisionmaking does not obtain in the districting context because
redistricting by definition involves racial considerations.
Underlying their argument are the very stereotypical assumptions the Equal Protection Clause forbids. It is true
that redistricting in most cases will implicate a political calculus in which various interests compete for recognition, but
it does not follow from this that individuals of the same race
share a single political interest. The view that they do is
"based on the demeaning notion that members of the defined
racial groups ascribe to certain 'minority views' that must
be different from those of other citizens," Metro Broadcasting, 497 U. S., at 636 (KENNEDY, J., dissenting), the precise
use of race as a proxy the Constitution prohibits. Nor can
the argument that districting cases are excepted from standard equal protection precepts be resuscitated by United Jewish Organizationsof Williamsburgh,Inc. v. Carey, 430 U. S.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

144 (1977), where the Court addressed a claim that New York
violated the Constitution by splitting a Hasidic Jewish community in order to include additional majority-minority districts. As we explained in Shaw, a majority of the Justices
in UJO construed the complaint as stating a vote dilution
claim, so their analysis does not apply to a claim that the
State has separated voters on the basis of race. 509 U. S.,
at 652. To the extent any of the opinions in that "highly
fractured decision," id., at 651, can be interpreted as suggesting that a State's assignment of voters on the basis of
race would be subject to anything but our strictest scrutiny,
those views ought not be deemed controlling.
In sum, we make clear that parties alleging that a State
has assigned voters on the basis of race are neither confined
in their proof to evidence regarding the district's geometry
and makeup nor required to make a threshold showing of
bizarreness. Today's litigation requires us further to consider the requirements of the proof necessary to sustain this
equal protection challenge.
B
Federal-court review of districting legislation represents
a serious intrusion on the most vital of local functions. It
is well settled that "reapportionment is primarily the duty
and responsibility of the State." Chapman v. Meier, 420
U. S. 1, 27 (1975); see, e. g., Voinovich v. Quilter, 507 U. S.
146, 156-157 (1993); Growe v. Emison, 507 U. S. 25, 34 (1993).
Electoral districting is a most difficult subject for legislatures, and so the States must have discretion to exercise the
political judgment necessary to balance competing interests.
Although race-based decisionmaking is inherently suspect,
e. g., Adarand, ante, at 218 (citing Bakke, 438 U. S., at 291
(opinion of Powell, J.)), until a claimant makes a showing sufficient to support that allegation the good faith of a state
legislature must be presumed, see id., at 318-319 (opinion
of Powell, J.). The courts, in assessing the sufficiency of a
challenge to a districting plan, must be sensitive to the com-

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

plex interplay of forces that enter a legislature's redistricting
calculus. Redistricting legislatures will, for example, almost always be aware of racial demographics; but it does not
follow that ' race predominates in the redistricting process.
Shaw, supra, at 646; see Personnel Administrator of Mass.
v. Feeney, 442 U. S. 256, 279 (1979) (" '[D]iscriminatory' purpose' . . . implies more than intent as volition or intent as
awareness of consequences. It implies that the decisionmaker ... selected or reaffirmed a particular course of action
at least in part 'because of,' not merely 'in spite of,' its adverse effects") (footnotes and citation omitted). The distinction between being aware of racial considerations and being
motivated by them may be difficult to make. This evidentiary difficulty, together with the sensitive nature of redistricting and the presumption of good faith that must be
accorded legislative enactments, requires courts to exercise
extraordinary caution in adjudicating claims that a State has
drawn district lines on the basis of race. The plaintiff's burden is to show, either through circumstantial evidence of a
district's shape and demographics or more direct evidence
going to legislative purpose, that race was the predominant
factor motivating the legislature's decision to place a significant number of voters within or without a particular district.
To make this showing, a plaintiff must prove that the legislature subordinated traditional race-neutral districting principles, including but not limited to compactness, contiguity,
and respect for political subdivisions or communities defined
by actual shared interests, to racial considerations. Where
these or other race-neutral considerations are the basis for
redistricting legislation, and are not subordinated to race, a
State can "defeat a claim that a district has been gerrymandered on racial lines." Shaw, supra, at 647. These principles inform the plaintiff's burden of proof at trial. Of
course, courts must also recognize these principles, and the
intrusive potential of judicial intervention into the legislative
realm, when assessing under the Federal Rules of Civil

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Procedure the adequacy of a plaintiff's showing at the various stages of litigation and determining whether to permit
discovery or trial to proceed. See, e. g., Fed. Rules Civ.
Proc. 12(b) and (e), 26(b)(2), 56; see also Celotex Corp. v.
Catrett, 477 U. S. 317, 327 (1986).
In our view, the District Court applied the correct analysis, and its finding that race was the predominant factor motivating the drawing of the Eleventh District was not clearly
erroneous. The court found it was "exceedingly obvious"
from the shape of the Eleventh District, together with the
relevant racial demographics, that the drawing of narrow
land bridges to incorporate within the district outlying appendages containing nearly 80% of the district's total black
population was a deliberate attempt to bring black populations into the district. 864 F. Supp., at 1375; see id., at 13741376. Although by comparison with other districts the geometric shape of the Eleventh District may not seem bizarre
on its face, when its shape is considered in conjunction with
its racial and population densities, the story of racial gerrymandering seen by the District Court becomes much clearer.
See Appendix B, infra, following p. 928; see also App. 133.
Although this evidence is quite compelling, we need not determine whether it was, standing alone, sufficient to establish a Shaw claim that the Eleventh District is unexplainable
other than by race. The District Court had before it considerable additional evidence showing that the General Assembly was motivated by a predominant, overriding desire to
assign black populations to the Eleventh District and
thereby permit the creation of a third majority-black district
in the Second. 864 F. Supp., at 1372, 1378.
The court found that "it became obvious," both from the
Justice Department's objection letters and the three preclearance rounds in general, "that [the Justice Department]
would accept nothing less than abject surrender to its maximization agenda." Id., at 1366, n. 11; see id., at 1360-1367;
see also Arlington Heights, 429 U. S., at 267 ("historical

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

background of the decision is one evidentiary source"). It
further found that the General Assembly acquiesced and as
a consequence was driven by its overriding desire to comply
with the Department's maximization demands. The court
supported its conclusion not just with the testimony of Linda
Meggers, the operator of "Herschel," Georgia's reapportionment computer, and "probably the most knowledgeable person available on the subject of Georgian redistricting," 864
F. Supp., at 1361, 1363, n. 6, 1366, but also with the State's
own concessions. The State admitted that it "'would not
have added those portions of Effingham and Chatham Counties that are now in the [far southeastern extension of the]
present Eleventh Congressional District but for the need to
include additional black population in that district to offset
the loss of black population caused by the shift of predominantly black portions of Bibb County in the Second Congressional District which occurred in response to the Department
of Justice's March 20th, 1992, objection letter."' Id., at 1377.
It conceded further that "[t]o the extent that precincts in
the Eleventh Congressional District are split, a substantial
reason for their being split was the objective of increasing
the black population of that district." Ibid. And in its
brief to this Court, the State concedes that "[ilt is undisputed
that Georgia's eleventh is the product of a desire by the General Assembly to create a majority black district." Brief
for Miller Appellants 30. Hence the trial court had little
difficulty concluding that the Justice Department "spent
months demanding purely race-based revisions to Georgia's
redistricting plans, and that Georgia spent months attempting to comply." 864 F. Supp., at 1377. On this record, we
fail to see how the District Court could have reached any
conclusion other than that race was the predominant factor
in drawing Georgia's Eleventh District; and in any event we
conclude the court's finding is not clearly erroneous. Cf.
Wright v. Rockefeller, 376 U. S. 52, 56-57 (1964) (evidence
presented "conflicting inferences" and therefore "failed to

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

prove that the New York Legislature was either motivated
by racial considerations or in fact drew the districts on racial lines").
In light of its well-supported finding, the District Court
was justified in rejecting the various alternative explanations offered for the district. Although a legislature's compliance with "traditional districting principles such as compactness, contiguity, and respect for political subdivisions"
may well suffice to refute a claim of racial gerrymandering,
Shaw, 509 U. S., at 647, appellants cannot make such a refutation where, as here, those factors were subordinated to racial
objectives. Georgia's Attorney General objected to the Justice Department's demand for three majority-black districts
on the ground that to do so the State would have to "violate
all reasonable standards of compactness and contiguity."
App. 118. This statement from a state official is powerful
evidence that the legislature subordinated traditional districting principles to race when it ultimately enacted a plan
creating three majority-black districts, and justified the District Court's finding that "every [objective districting] factor
that could realistically be subordinated to racial tinkering in
fact suffered that fate." 864 F. Supp., at 1384; see id., at
1364, n. 8; id., at 1375 ("While the boundaries of the Eleventh
do indeed follow many precinct lines, this is because Ms.
Meggers designed the Eleventh District along racial lines,
and race data was most accessible to her at the precinct
level").
Nor can the State's districting legislation be rescued by
mere recitation of purported communities of interest. The
evidence was compelling "that there are no tangible 'communities of interest' spanning the hundreds of miles of the Eleventh District." Id., at 1389-1390. A comprehensive report
demonstrated the fractured political, social, and economic
interests within the Eleventh District's black population.
See Plaintiff's Exh. No. 85, pp. 10-27 (report of Timothy G.
O'Rourke, Ph.D.). It is apparent that it was not alleged

MILLER v. JOHNSON

Opinion of the Court

shared interests but rather the object of maximizing the
district's black population and obtaining Justice Department
approval that in fact explained the General Assembly's actions. 864 F. Supp., at 1866, 1378, 1380. A State is free to
recognize communities that have a particular racial makeup,
provided its action is directed toward some common thread
of relevant interests. "[Wihen members of a racial group
live together in one community, a reapportionment plan that
concentrates members of the group in one district and excludes them from others may reflect wholly legitimate purposes." Shaw, 509 U. S., at 646. But where the State assumes from a group of voters' race that they "think alike,
share the same political interests, and will prefer the same
candidates at the polls," it engages in racial stereotyping at
odds with equal protection mandates. Id., at 647; cf. Powers
v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400, 410 (1991) ("We may not accept as
a defense to racial discrimination the very stereotype the
law condemns").
Race was, as the District Court found, the predominant,
overriding factor explaining the General Assembly's decision
to attach to the Eleventh District various appendages containing dense majority-black populations. 864 F. Supp., at
1372, 1378. As a result, Georgia's congressional redistricting plan cannot be upheld unless it satisfies strict scrutiny,
our most rigorous and exacting standard of constitutional
review.
III
To satisfy strict scrutiny, the State must demonstrate that
its districting legislation is narrowly tailored to achieve a
compelling interest. Shaw, supra, at 653-657; see also Croson, 488 U. S., at 494 (plurality opinion); Wygant, 476 U. S.,
at 274, 280, and n. 6 (plurality opinion); cf. Adarand, ante, at
227. There is a "significant state interest in eradicating the
effects of past racial discrimination." Shaw, supra, at 656.
The State does not argue, however, that it created the Eleventh District to remedy past discrimination, and with good

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

reason: There is little doubt that the 'State's true interest
in designing the Eleventh District was creating a third
majority-black district to satisfy the Justice Department's
preclearance demands. 864 F. Supp., at 1378 ("[Tlhe only
interest the General Assembly had in mind when drafting
the current congressional plan was satisfying [the Justice Department's] preclearance requirements"); id., at 1366; compare Wygant, supra, at 277 (plurality opinion) (under strict
scrutiny, State must have convincing evidence that remedial
action is necessary before implementing affirmative action),
with Heller v. Doe, 509 U. S.312, 320 (1993) (under rationalbasis review, legislature need not "'actually articulate at
any time the purpose or rationale supporting its classification' ") (quoting Nordlingerv. Hahn, 505 U. S.1, 15 (1992)).
Whether or not in some cases compliance with the Act,
standing alone, can provide a compelling interest independent of any interest in remedying past discrimination, it cannot do so here. As we suggested in Shaw, compliance with
federal antidiscrimination laws cannot justify race-based districting where the challenged district was not reasonably
necessary under a constitutional reading and application of
those laws. See 509 U. S., at 653-655. The congressional
plan challenged here was not required by the Act under a
correct reading of the statute.
The Justice Department refused to preclear both of
Georgia's first two submitted redistricting plans. The District Court found that the Justice Department had adopted
a "black-maximization" policy under § 5, and that it was
clear from its objection letters that the Department would
not grant preclearance until the State made the "Macon/
Savannah trade" and created a third majority-black district.
864 F. Supp., at 1366, 1380. It is, therefore, safe to say that
the congressional plan enacted in the end was required in
order to obtain preclearance. It does not follow, however,
that the plan was required by the substantive provisions of
the Act.

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

We do not accept the contention that the State has a compelling interest in complying with whatever preclearance
mandates the Justice Department issues. When a state
governmental entity seeks to justify race-based remedies to
cure the effects of past discrimination, we do not accept the
government's mere assertion that the remedial action is
required. Rather, we insist on a strong basis in evidence of
the harm being remedied. See, e. g., Shaw, supra, at 656;
Croson, supra, at 500-501; Wygant, supra, at 276-277 (plurality opinion). "The history of racial classifications in this
country suggests that blind judicial deference to legislative
or executive pronouncements of necessity has no place in
equal protection analysis." Croson, supra, at 501. Our
presumptive skepticism of all racial classifications, see Adarand, ante, at 223-224, prohibits us as well from accepting
on its face the Justice Department's conclusion that racial
districting is necessary under the Act. Where a State relies on the Department's determination that race-based
districting is necessary to comply with the Act, the judiciary retains an independent obligation in adjudicating consequent equal protection challenges to ensure that the State's
actions are narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling interest. See Shaw, supra, at 654. Were we to accept the
Justice Department's objection itself as a compelling interest adequate to insulate racial districting from constitutional
review, we would be surrendering to the Executive Branch
our role in enforcing the constitutional limits on race-based
official action. We may not do so. See, e. g., United States
v. Nixon, 418 U. S.683, 704 (1974) (judicial power cannot
be shared with Executive Branch); Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803) ("It is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law
is"); cf. Baker v. Carr, 369 U. S. 186, 211 (1962) (Supreme
Court is "ultimate interpreter of the Constitution"); Cooper
v. Aaron, 358 U. S.1, 18 (1958) ("permanent and indispensable feature of our constitutional system" is that "the federal

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

judiciary is supreme in the exposition of the law of the
Constitution").
For the same reasons, we think it inappropriate for a court
engaged in constitutional scrutiny to accord deference to the
Justice Department's interpretation of the Act. Although
we have deferred to the Department's interpretation in
certain statutory cases, see, e. g., Presley v. Etowah County
Comm'n, 502 U. S. 491, 508-509 (1992), and cases cited
therein, we have rejected agency interpretations to which
we would otherwise defer where they raise serious constitutional questions. Edward J DeBartolo Corp. v. Florida
Gulf Coast Building & Constr. Trades Council, 485 U. S.
568, 574-575 (1988). When the Justice Department's interpretation of the Act compels race-based districting, it by
definition raises a serious constitutional question, see, e. g.,
Bakke, 438 U. S., at 291 (opinion of Powell, J.) ("Racial and
ethnic distinctions of any sort are inherently supect" under
the Equal Protection Clause), and should not receive
deference.
Georgia's drawing of the Eleventh District was not required under the Act because there was no reasonable basis
to believe that Georgia's earlier enacted plans violated § 5.
Wherever a plan is "ameliorative," a term we have used to
describe plans increasing the number of majority-minority
districts, it "cannot violate § 5 unless the new apportionment
itself so discriminates on the basis of race or color as to violate the Constitution." Beer, 425 U. S., at 141. Georgia's
first and second proposed plans increased the number of
majority-black districts from 1 out of 10 (10%) to 2 out of 11
(18.18%). These plans were "ameliorative" and could not
have violated § 5's nonretrogression principle. Ibid. Acknowledging as much, see Brief for United States 29; 864
F. Supp., at 1384-1385, the United States now relies on the
fact that the Justice Department may object to a state proposal either on the ground that it has a prohibited purpose
or a prohibited effect, see, e. g., Pleasant Grove v. United

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

States, 479 U. S. 462, 469 (1987). The Government justifies
its preclearance objections on the ground that the submitted
plans violated § 5's purpose element. The key to the Government's position, which is plain from its objection letters
if not from its briefs to this Court, compare App. 105-106,
124-125 with Brief for United States 31-33, is and always
has been that Georgia failed to proffer a nondiscriminatory
purpose for its refusal in the first two submissions to take
the steps necessary to create a third majority-minority
district.
The Government's position is insupportable. "[A]meliorative changes, even if they fall short of what might be accomplished in terms of increasing minority representation, cannot be found to violate section 5 unless they so discriminate
on the basis of race or color as to violate the Constitution."
Days, Section 5 and the Role of the Justice Department, in
B. Grofman & C. Davidson, Controversies in Minority Voting
56 (1992). Although it is true we have held that the State
has the burden to prove a nondiscriminatory purpose under
§ 5, e. g., Pleasant Grove, supra, at 469, Georgia's Attorney
General provided a detailed explanation for the State's initial
decision not to enact the max-black plan, see App. 117-119.
The District Court accepted this explanation, 864 F. Supp.,
at 1365, and found an absence of any discriminatory intent,
id., at 1363, and n. 7. The State's policy of adhering to other
districting principles instead of creating as many majorityminority districts as possible does not support an inference
that the plan "so discriminates on the basis of race or color
as to violate the Constitution," Beer, supra, at 141; see
Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S. 55 (1980) (plurality opinion),
and thus cannot provide any basis under § 5 for the Justice
Department's objection.
Instead of grounding its objections on evidence of a discriminatory purpose, it would appear the Government was
driven by its policy of maximizing majority-black districts.
Although the Government now disavows having had that

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

policy, see Brief for United States 35, and seems to concede
its impropriety, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 32-33, the District

Court's well-documented factual finding was that the Department did adopt a maximization policy and followed it in objecting to Georgia's first two plans.* One of the two Department of Justice line attorneys overseeing the Georgia
preclearance process himself disclosed that "'what we did
and what I did specifically was to take a... map of the State
of Georgia shaded for race, shaded by minority concentration, and overlay the districts that were drawn by the State
of Georgia and see how well those lines adequately reflected
black voting strength."' 864 F. Supp., at 1362, n. 4. In
utilizing § 5 to require States to create majority-minority
districts wherever possible, the Department of Justice
expanded its authority under the statute beyond what
Congress intended and we have upheld.
Section 5 was directed at preventing a particular set of
invidious practices that had the effect of "undo[ing] or defeat[ing] the rights recently won by nonwhite voters."
*See 864 F. Supp. 1354, 1361 (SD Ga. 1994) (quoting Rep. Tyrone Brooks,
who recalled on the Assembly Floor that "'the Attorney General... specifically told the states covered by the Act that wherever possible, you
must draw majority black districts, wherever possible"); id., at 1362-1363,
and n. 4 (citing 3 Tr. 23-24: Assistant Attorney General answering "Yes"
to question whether "the Justice Department did take the position in a
number of these cases, that if alternative plans demonstrated that more
minority districts could be drawn than the state was proposing to draw
... that did, in fact, violate Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act?"); 864 F.
Supp., at 1365-1366; id., at 1366, n. 11 ("It became obvious that [the Justice
Department] would accept nothing less than abject surrender to its maximization agenda"); id., at 1368 ("It apparently did not occur to [the Justice
Department] that increased 'recognition' of minority voting strength,
while perhaps admirable, is properly tempered with other districting considerations"); id., at 1382-1383 (expressing doubts as to the constitutionality of [the Justice Department's] "'maximization' policy"); id., at 1383,
n. 35 (citing other courts that have "criticize[d] [the Justice Department's]
maximization propensities").

MILLER v. JOHNSON
Opinion of the Court

H. R. Rep. No. 91-397, p. 8 (1969).
v. United States,

As we explained in Beer

"'Section 5 was a response to a common practice in
some jurisdictions of staying one step ahead of the federal courts by passing new discriminatory voting laws
as soon as the old ones had been struck down. That
practice had been possible because each new law remained in effect until the Justice Department or private
plaintiffs were able to sustain the burden of proving that
the new law, too, was discriminatory... Congress therefore decided, as the Supreme Court held it could, "to
shift the advantage of time and inertia from the perpetrators of the evil to its victim," by "freezing election
procedures in the covered areas unless the changes can
be shown to be nondiscriminatory.""' 425 U. S., at 140
(quoting H. R. Rep. No. 94-196, pp. 57-58 (1975) (footnotes omitted)).
Based on this historical understanding, we recognized in
Beer that "the purpose of § 5 has always been to insure that
no voting-procedure changes would be made that would lead
to a retrogression in the position of racial minorities with
respect to their effective exercise of the electoral franchise."
425 U. S., at 141. The Justice Department's maximization
policy seems quite far removed from this purpose. We are
especially reluctant to conclude that § 5 justifies that policy
given the serious constitutional concerns it raises. In South
Carolinav. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301 (1966), we upheld § 5
as a necessary and constitutional response to some States'
"extraordinary stratagem[s] of contriving new rules of various kinds for the sole purpose of perpetuating voting discrimination in the face of adverse federal court decrees."
Id., at 335 (footnote omitted); see also City of Rome v. United
States, 446 U. S., at 173-183. But our belief in Katzenbach
that the federalism costs exacted by § 5 preclearance could
be justified by those extraordinary circumstances does not

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

mean they can be justified in the circumstances of this litigation. And the Justice Department's implicit command that
States engage in presumptively unconstitutional race-based
districting brings the Act, once upheld as a proper exercise
of Congress' authority under § 2 of the Fifteenth Amendment, Katzenbach, supra, at 327, 337, into tension with the
Fourteenth Amendment. As we recalled in Katzenbach itself, Congress' exercise of its Fifteenth Amendment authority even when otherwise proper still must "'consist with the
letter and spirit of the constitution."' 383 U. S., at 326
(quoting McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421 (1819)).
We need not, however, resolve these troubling and difficult
constitutional questions today. There is no indication Congress intended such a far-reaching application of § 5, so we
reject the Justice Department's interpretation of the statute
and avoid the constitutional problems that interpretation
raises. See, e. g., DeBartolo Corp. v. Florida Gulf Coast
Trades Council, 485 U. S., at 575.
IV
The Act, and its grant of authority to the federal courts to
uncover official efforts to abridge minorities' right to vote,
has been of vital importance in eradicating invidious discrimination from the electoral process and enhancing the
legitimacy of our political institutions. Only if our political system and our society cleanse themselves of that
discrimination will all members of the polity share an equal
opportunity to gain public office regardless of race. As a
Nation we share both the obligation and the aspiration of
working toward this end. The end is neither assured nor
well served, however, by carving electorates into racial blocs.
"If our society is to continue to progress as a multiracial
democracy, it must recognize that the automatic invocation
of race stereotypes retards that progress and causes continued hurt and injury." Edmondson v. Leesville Concrete Co.,
500 U. S. 614, 630-631 (1991). It takes a shortsighted and

MILLER v. JOHNSON
O'CONNOR, J.,

concurring

unauthorized view of the Voting Rights Act to invoke that
statute, which has played a decisive role in redressing some
of our worst forms of discrimination, to demand the very
racial stereotyping the Fourteenth Amendment forbids.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed, and the
cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with
this decision.
It is so ordered.
[Appendices A and B, containing a map of Georgia congressional districts and a population density map of the 11th
Congressional District of Georgia, follow this page.]
JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

concurring.

I understand the threshold standard the Court adoptsthat "the legislature subordinated traditional race-neutral
districting principles

. . .

to racial considerations," ante, at

916-to be a demanding one. To invoke strict scrutiny, a
plaintiff must show that the State has relied on race in substantial disregard of customary and traditional districting
practices. Those practices provide a crucial frame of reference and therefore constitute a significant governing principle in cases of this kind. The standard would be no different
if a legislature had drawn the boundaries to favor some other
ethnic group; certainly the standard does not treat efforts to
create majority-minority districts less favorably than similar
efforts on behalf of other groups. Indeed, the driving force
behind the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment was the
desire to end legal discrimination against blacks.
Application of the Court's standard does not throw into
doubt the vast majority of the Nation's 435 congressional
districts, where presumably the States have drawn the
boundaries in accordance with their customary districting
principles. That is so even though race may well have been

APPENDIX A

Population Density Map
11th Congressional District of Georgia

APPENDIX B

People Per Square Mile
Alki{

Z

0Otol10

Z

I0
to 100
10 to 10 ,000....
100 to 1,000

10,000 to 100,000
100,000 to 1,000,000

......

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

considered in the redistricting process. See Shaw v. Reno,
509 U. S. 630, 646 (1993); ante, at 916. But application of
the Court's standard helps achieve Shaw's basic objective
of making extreme instances of gerrymandering subject
to meaningful judicial review. I therefore join the Court's
opinion.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

dissenting.

has explained why the District Court's
opinion on the merits was erroneous and why this Court's
law-changing decision will breed unproductive litigation. I
join her excellent opinion without reservation. I add these
comments because I believe the appellees in these cases, like
the appellees in United States v. Hays, ante, p. 737, have not
suffered any legally cognizable injury.
In Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630 (1993), the Court crafted a
new cause of action with two novel, troubling features.
First, the Court misapplied the term "gerrymander," previously used to describe grotesque line-drawing by a dominant group to maintain or enhance its political power at
a minority's expense, to condemn the efforts of a majority (whites) to share its power with a minority (AfricanAmericans). Second, the Court dispensed with its previous
insistence in vote dilution cases on a showing of injury to an
identifiable group of voters, but it failed to explain adequately what showing a plaintiff must make to establish
standing to litigate the newly minted Shaw claim. Neither
in Shaw itself nor in the cases decided today has the Court
coherently articulated what injury this cause of action is designed to redress. Because appellees have alleged no legally cognizable injury, they lack standing, and these cases
should be dismissed. See Hays, ante, at 750-751 (STEVENS,
J., concurring in judgment).
Even assuming the validity of Shaw, I cannot see how
appellees in these cases could assert the injury the Court
attributes to them. Appellees, plaintiffs below, are white
JUSTICE GINSBURG

MILLER v. JOHNSON
STEVENS,

J., dissentimg

voters in Georgia's Eleventh Congressional District. The
Court's conclusion that they have standing to maintain a
Shaw claim appears to rest on a theory that their placement
in the Eleventh District caused them "'representational
harms."' Hays, ante, at 744, cited ante, at 909. The Shaw
Court explained the concept of "representational harms" as
follows: "When a district obviously is created solely to effectuate the perceived common interests of one racial group,
elected officials are more likely to believe that their primary
obligation is to represent only the members of that group,
rather than their constituency as a whole." Shaw, 509 U. S.,
at 648. Although the Shaw Court attributed representational harms solely to a message sent by the legislature's
action, those harms can only come about if the message is
received-that is, first, if all or most black voters support
the same candidate, and, second, if the successful candidate
ignores the interests of her white constituents. Appellees'
standing, in other words, ultimately depends on the very
premise the Court purports to abhor: that voters of a particular race "'think alike, share the same political interests,
and will prefer the same candidates at the polls."' Ante, at
912 (quoting Shaw, 509 U. S., at 647). This generalization,
as the Court recognizes, is "offensive and demeaning."
Ante, at 912.
In particular instances, of course, members of one race
may vote by an overwhelming margin for one candidate, and
in some cases that candidate will be of the same race. "Racially polarized voting" is one of the circumstances plaintiffs
must prove to advance a vote dilution claim. Thornburg v.
Gingles, 478 U. S.30, 56-58 (1986). Such a claim allows voters to allege that gerrymandered district lines have impaired
their ability to elect a candidate of their own race. The
Court emphasizes, however, that a so-called Shaw claim is
"'analytically distinct' from a vote dilution claim," ante, at
911 (quoting Shaw, 509 U. S., at 652). Neither in Shaw, nor
in Hays, nor in the instant cases has the Court answered the

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

question its analytic distinction raises: If the Shaw injury
does not flow from an increased probability that white candidates will lose, then how can the increased probability that
black candidates will win cause white voters, such as appellees, cognizable harm? 1
The Court attempts an explanation in these cases by
equating the injury it imagines appellees have suffered with
the injuries African-Americans suffered under segregation.
The heart of appellees' claim, by the Court's account, is that
"a State's assignment of voters on the basis of race," ante,
at 915, violates the Equal Protection Clause for the same
reason a State may not "segregate citizens on the basis of
race in its public parks, New Orleans City Park Improvement Assn. v. Detiege, 358 U. S. 54 (1958) (per curiam),
buses, Gayle v. Browder, 352 U. S.903 (1956) (percuriam),
golf courses, Holmes v. Atlanta, 350 U. S.879 (1955) (per
curiam), beaches, Mayor of Baltimore v. Dawson, 350 U. S.
877 (1955) (percuriam), and schools, Brown v. Board of Education,347 U. S.483 (1954)." Ante, at 911. This equation,
however, fails to elucidate the elusive Shaw injury. Our desegregation cases redressed the exclusion of black citizens
from public facilities reserved for whites. In these cases, in
contrast, any voter, black or white, may live in the Eleventh
District. What appellees contest is the inclusion of too
many black voters in the district as drawn. In my view, if
appellees allege no vote dilution, that inclusion can cause
them no conceivable injury.
The Court's equation of Shaw claims with our desegregation decisions is inappropriate for another reason. In each
of those cases, legal segregation frustrated the public interest in diversity and tolerance by barring African-Americans
IWhite voters obviously lack standing to complain of the other injury
the Court has recognized under Shaw: the stigma blacks supposedly suffer
when assigned to a district because of their race. See Hays, ante, at 744;
cf. Adarand Constructors,Inc. v. Pefia, ante, at 247-248, n. 5 (STEVENS,
J., dissenting).

MILLER v. JOHNSON
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

from joining whites in the activities at issue. The districting plan here, in contrast, serves the interest in diversity
and tolerance by increasing the likelihood that a meaningful
number of black representatives will add their voices to legislative debates. See post, at 947-948 (GINSBURG, J., dissenting). "There is no moral or constitutional equivalence
between a policy that is designed to perpetuate a caste system and one that seeks to eradicate racial subordination."
Adarand Constructors,Inc. v. Pefla, ante, at 243 (STEVENS,
J., dissenting); see also Adarand, ante, at 247-248, n. 5
(STEVENS, J., dissenting). That racial integration of the sort
attempted by Georgia now appears more vulnerable to judicial challenge than some policies alleged to perpetuate racial
bias, cf. Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S.737 (1984), is anomalous,
to say the least.
Equally distressing is the Court's equation of traditional
gerrymanders, designed to maintain or enhance a dominant
group's power, with a dominant group's decision to share its
power with a previously underrepresented group. In my
view, districting plans violate the Equal Protection Clause
when they "serve no purpose other than to favor one segment-whether racial, ethnic, religious, economic, or political-that may occupy a position of strength at a particular
point in time, or to disadvantage a politically weak segment
of the community." Karcher v. Daggett, 462 U. S.725, 748
(1983) (STEVENS, J., concurring). In contrast, I do not see
how a districting plan that favors a politically weak group
can violate equal protection. The Constitution does not
mandate any form of proportional representation, but it
certainly permits a State to adopt a policy that promotes
fair representation of different groups. Indeed, this Court
squarely so held in Gaffney v. Cummings, 412 U.S. 735
(1973):
"[N]either we nor the district courts have a constitutional warrant to invalidate a state plan, otherwise

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

within tolerable population limits, because it undertakes, not to minimize or eliminate the political strength
of any group or party, but to recognize it and, through
districting, provide a rough sort of proportional representation in the legislative halls of the State." Id., at
754.
The Court's refusal to distinguish an enactment that helps
a minority group from enactments that cause it harm is especially unfortunate at the intersection of race and voting,
given that African-Americans and other disadvantaged
groups have struggled so long and so hard for inclusion in
that most central exercise of our democracy. See post, at
936-938 (GINSBURG, J., dissenting). I have long believed
that treating racial groups differently from other identifiable
groups of voters, as the Court does today, is itself an invidious racial classification. Racial minorities should receive
neither more nor less protection than other groups against
gerrymanders.2 A fortiori, racial minorities should not be
less eligible than other groups to benefit from districting
plans the majority designs to aid them.
I respectfully dissent.
2

"In my opinion an interpretation of the Constitution which afforded
one kind of political protection to blacks and another kind to members of
other identifiable groups would itself be invidious. Respect for the citizenry in the black community compels acceptance of the fact that in the
long run there is no more certainty that these individuals will vote alike
than will individual members of any other ethnic, economic, or social
group. The probability of parallel voting fluctuates as the blend of political issues affecting the outcome of an election changes from time to time
to emphasize one issue, or a few, rather than others, as dominant. The
facts that a political group has its own history, has suffered its own special
injustices, and has its own congeries of special political interests, do not
make one such group different from any other in the eyes of the law. The
members of each go to the polls with equal dignity and with an equal right
to be protected from invidious discrimination." Cousins v. City Council
of Chicago, 466 F. 2d 830, 852 (CA7 1972) (Stevens, J., dissenting).

MILLER v. JOHNSON
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

JUSTICE GINSBURG, with whom JUSTICE STEVENS and
JUSTICE BREYER join, and with whom JUSTICE SOUTER joins

except as to Part III-B, dissenting.
. Legislative districting is highly political business. This
Court has generally respected the competence of state legislatures to attend to the task. When race is the issue, however, we have recognized the need for judicial intervention
to prevent dilution of minority voting strength. Generations of rank discrimination against African-Americans, as
citizens and voters, account for that surveillance.
Two Terms ago, in Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630 (1993), this
Court took up a claim "analytically distinct" from a vote dilution claim. Id., at 652. Shaw authorized judicial intervention in "extremely irregular" apportionments, id., at 642, in
which the legislature cast aside traditional districting practices to consider race alone-in the Shaw case, to create a
district in North Carolina in which African-Americans would
compose a majority of the voters.
Today the Court expands the judicial role, announcing that
federal courts are to undertake searching review of any district with contours "predominant[ly] motivat[ed]" by race:
"[S]trict scrutiny" will be triggered not only when traditional districting practices are abandoned, but also when
those practices are "subordinated to"-given less weight
than-race. See ante, at 916. Applying this new "raceas-predominant-factor" standard, the Court invalidates
Georgia's districting plan even though Georgia's Eleventh
District, the focus of today's dispute, bears the imprint of
familiar districting practices. Because I do not endorse the
Court's new standard and would not upset Georgia's plan,
I dissent.
I
At the outset, it may be useful to note points on which the
Court does not divide. First, we agree that federalism and
the slim judicial competence to draw district lines weigh

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

heavily against judicial intervention in apportionment decisions; as a rule, the task should remain within the domain of
state legislatures. See ante, at 915; Reynolds v. Sims, 377
U. S. 533, 586 (1964) ("[L]egislative reapportionment is primarily a matter for legislative consideration and determination ....

").

Second, for most of our Nation's history, the

franchise has not been enjoyed equally by black citizens and
white voters. To redress past wrongs and to avert any
recurrence of exclusion of blacks from political processes,
federal courts now respond to Equal Protection Clause and
Voting Rights Act complaints of state action that dilutes
minority voting strength. See, e. g., Thornburg v. Gingles,
478 U. S. 30 (1986); White v. Regester, 412 U. S. 755 (1973).
Third, to meet statutory requirements, state legislatures
must sometimes consider race as a factor highly relevant to
the drawing of district lines. See Pildes & Niemi, Expressive Harms, "Bizarre Districts," and Voting Rights: Evaluating Election-District Appearances After Shaw v. Reno, 92
Mich. L. Rev. 483, 496 (1993) ("compliance with the [Voting
Rights Act] and Gingles necessarily requires race-conscious
districting"). Finally, state legislatures may recognize communities that have a particular racial or ethnic makeup, even
in the absence of any compulsion to do so, in order to account
for interests common to or shared by' the persons grouped
together. See Shaw, 509 U. S., at 646 ("[W]hen members of
a racial group live together in one community, a reapportionment plan that concentrates members of the group in one
district and excludes them from others may reflect wholly
legitimate purposes.").
Therefore, the fact that the Georgia General Assembly
took account of race in drawing district lines-a fact not in
dispute-does not render the State's plan invalid. To offend
the Equal Protection Clause, all agree, the legislature had to
do more than consider race. How much more, is the issue
that divides the Court today.

MILLER v. JOHNSON
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

A
"We say once again what has been said on many occasions:
reapportionment is primarily the duty and responsibility of
the State through its legislature or other body, rather than
of a federal court." Chapman v. Meier, 420 U.S. 1, 27
(1975); see also ante, at 915. The Constitution itself allocates this responsibility to States. U. S. Const., Art. I, §2;
Growe v. Emison, 507 U. S. 25, 34 (1993).
"Districting inevitably has sharp political impact and inevitably political decisions must be made by those charged with
the task." White v. Weiser, 412 U. S. 783, 795-796 (1973).
District lines are drawn to accommodate a myriad of factors-geographic, economic, historical, and political-and
state legislatures, as arenas of compromise and electoral
accountability, are best positioned to mediate competing
claims; courts, with a mandate to adjudicate, are ill equipped
for the task.
B
Federal courts have ventured into the political thicket of
apportionment when necessary to secure to members of
racial minorities equal voting rights-rights denied in many
States, including Georgia, until not long ago.
The Fifteenth Ambndment, ratified in 1870, declares that
the right to vote "shall not be denied ... by any State on
account of race." That declaration, for generations, was
often honored in the breach; it was greeted by a near century
of "unremitting and ingenious defiance" in several States, including Georgia. South Carolinav. Katzenbach, 383 U. S.
301, 309 (1966). After a brief interlude of black suffrage enforced by federal troops but accompanied by rampant violence against blacks, Georgia held a constitutional convention
in 1877. Its purpose, according to the convention's leader,
was to "'fix it so that the people shall rule and the Negro
shall never be heard from."' McDonald, Binford, & Johnson, Georgia, in Quiet Revolution in the South 68 (C. David-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

son & B. Grofman eds. 1994) (quoting Robert Toombs). In
pursuit of this objective, Georgia enacted a cumulative poll
tax, requiring voters to show they had paid past as well as
current poll taxes; one historian described this tax as the
"most effective bar to Negro suffrage ever devised." A.
Stone, Studies in the American Race Problem 354-355
(1908).
In 1890, the Georgia General Assembly authorized "white
primaries"; keeping blacks out of the Democratic primary
effectively excluded them from Georgia's political life,
for victory in the Democratic primary was tantamount to
election. McDonald, Binford, & Johnson, supra, at 68-69.
Early in this century, Georgia Governor Hoke Smith persuaded the legislature to pass the "Disenfranchisement Act
of 1908"; true to its title, this measure added various property, "good character," and literacy requirements that, as
administered, served to keep blacks from voting. Id., at 69;
see also Katzenbach, 383 U. S., at 310 (tests of this order
were "specifically designed to prevent Negroes from voting"). The result, as one commentator observed 25 years
later, was an "'almost absolute exclusion of the Negro voice
in state and federal elections."' McDonald, Binford, &
Johnson, supra, at 70 (quoting R. Wardlaw, Negro Suffrage
in Georgia, 1867-1930, p. 69 (unpublished 1932)).
Faced with a political situation scarcely open to selfcorrection-disenfranchised blacks had no electoral influence, hence no muscle to lobby the legislature for changethe Court intervened. It invalidated white primaries, see
Smith v. Allwright, 321 U. S.649 (1944), and other burdens
on minority voting. See, e. g., Schnell v. Davis, 336 U. S.
933 (1949) (percuriam) (discriminatory application of voting
tests); Lane v. Wilson, 307 U. S.268 (1939) (procedural hurdles); Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S.347 (1915) (grandfather clauses).
It was against this backdrop that the Court, construing
the Equal Protection Clause, undertook to ensure that ap-

MILLER v. JOHNSON
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

portionment plans do not dilute minority voting strength.
See, e. g., Rogers v. Lodge, 458 U. S. 613, 617 (1982); Regester,
412 U. S., at 765; Wright v. Rockefeller, 376 U. S. 52, 57
(1964). By enacting the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Congress heightened federal judicial involvement in apportionment, and also fashioned a role for the Attorney General.
Section 2 creates a federal right of action to challenge vote
dilution. Section 5 requires States with a history of discrimination to preclear any changes in voting practices with
either a federal court (a three-judge United States District
Court for the District of Columbia) or the Attorney General.
These Court decisions and congressional directions significantly reduced voting discrimination against minorities.
In the 1972 election, Georgia gained its first black Member of
Congress since Reconstruction, and the 1981 apportionment
created the State's first majority-minority district.' This
voting district, however, was not gained easily. Georgia
created it only after the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia refused to preclear a predecessor
apportionment plan that included no such district-an omission due in part to the influence of Joe Mack Wilson, then
Chairman of the Georgia House Reapportionment Committee. As Wilson put it only 14 years ago, "'I don't want to
draw nigger districts."' Busbee v. Smith, 549 F. Supp. 494,
501 (DC 1982).
II
A
Before Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630 (1993), this Court invoked the Equal Protection Clause to justify intervention in
the quintessentially political task of legislative districting in
two circumstances: to enforce the one-person-one-vote requirement, see Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533 (1964); and
I Georgia's population is approximately 27 percent black.
1354, 1385 (SD Ga. 1994).

864 F. Supp.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

to prevent dilution of a minority group's voting strength, see
Regester, 412 U. S., at 765; Wright, 376 U. S., at 57.2
In Shaw, the Court recognized a third basis for an equal
protection challenge to a State's apportionment plan. The
Court wrote cautiously, emphasizing that judicial intervention is exceptional: Strict judicial scrutiny is in order, the
Court declared, if a district is "so extremely irregular on its
face that it rationally can be viewed only as an effort to segregate the races for purposes of voting." 509 U. S., at 642.
"[E]xtrem[e] irregular[ity]" was evident in Shaw, the
Court explained, setting out this description of the North
Carolina voting district under examination:
"It is approximately 160 miles long and, for much of its
length, no wider than the 1-85 corridor. It winds in
snakelike fashion through tobacco country, financial centers, and manufacturing areas until it gobbles in enough
enclaves of black neighborhoods. Northbound and
southbound drivers on 1-85 sometimes find themselves
in separate districts in one county, only to 'trade' districts when they enter the next county. Of the 10 counties through which District 12 passes, 5 are cut into 3
different districts; even towns are divided. At one
point the district remains contiguous only because it intersects at a single point with two other districts before
crossing over them. One state legislator has remarked
that "'[i]f you drove down the interstate with both car
2In the vote dilution category, Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U.S. 339
(1960), was a pathmarker. There, the city of Tuskegee redrew its boundaries to exclude black voters. This apportionment was unconstitutional
not simply because it was motivated by race, but notably because it had a
dilutive effect: It disenfranchised Tuskegee's black community. See id.,
at 341 ("The essential inevitable effect of this redefinition of Tuskegee's
boundaries is to remove from the city all save only four or five of its 400
Negro voters while not removing a single white voter or resident. The
result of the Act is to deprive the Negro petitioners discriminatorily of
the benefits of residence in Tuskegee, including, inter alia, the right to
vote in municipal elections.").

MILLER v. JOHNSON
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

doors open, you'd kill most of the people in the district."'
Washington Post, Apr. 20, 1993, p. A4. The district
even has inspired poetry: 'Ask not for whom the line is
drawn; it is drawn to avoid thee.' Grofman, Would
Vince Lombardi Have Been Right If He Had Said:
'When It Comes to Redistricting, Race Isn't Everything,
It's the Only Thing'?, 14 Cardozo L. Rev. 1237, 1261,
n. 96 (1993) (internal quotation marks omitted)." Id.,
at 635-636 (some citations and internal quotation
marks omitted).
The problem in Shaw was not the plan architects' consideration of race as relevant in redistricting. Rather, in the
Court's estimation, it was the virtual exclusion of other
factors from the calculus. Traditional districting practices
were cast aside, the Court concluded, with race alone steering placement of district lines.
B
The record before us does not show that race similarly
overwhelmed traditional districting practices in Georgia.
Although the Georgia General Assembly prominently considered race in shaping the Eleventh District, race did not
crowd out all other factors, as the Court found it did in North
Carolina's delineation of the Shaw district.
In contrast to the snake-like North Carolina district inspected in Shaw, Georgia's Eleventh District is hardly
"bizarre," "extremely irregular," or "irrational on its face."
Id., at 642, 644, 658. Instead, the Eleventh District's design
reflects significant consideration of "traditional districting
factors (such as keeping political subdivisions intact) and the
usual political process of compromise and trades for a variety
of nonracial reasons." 864 F. Supp. 1354, 1397, n. 5 (SD Ga.
1994) (Edmondson, J., dissenting); cf. ante, at 917 ("geometric
shape of the Eleventh District may not seem bizarre on its
face"). The district covers a core area in central and east-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

ern Georgia, and its total land area of 6,780 square miles is3
about average for the State. Defendant's Exh. 177, p. 4.
The border of the Eleventh District runs 1,184 miles, in line
with Georgia's Second District, which has a 1,243-mile border, and the State's Eighth District, with a border running
1,155 miles. See 864 F. Supp., at 1396 (Edmondson, J.,
dissenting).4
Nor does the Eleventh District disrespect the boundaries
of political subdivisions. Of the 22 counties in the district,
14 are intact and 8 are divided. See Joint Exh. 17. That
puts the Eleventh District at about the state average in divided counties. By contrast, of the Sixth District's five
counties, none are intact, ibid., and of the Fourth District's
four counties, just one is intact. Ibid.5 Seventy-one percent of the Eleventh District's boundaries track the borders
of political subdivisions. See 864 F. Supp., at 1396 (Edmondson, J., dissenting). Of the State's 11 districts, 5 score worse
than the Eleventh District on this criterion, and 5 score bet3Georgia's First, Second, and Eighth Districts each have a total area
of over 10,100 square miles. 864 F. Supp., at 1396 (Edmondson, J.,
dissenting).
4
Although the Eleventh District comes within 58 miles of crossing the
entire State, this is not unusual in Georgia: The Ninth District spans the
State's entire northern border, and the First, Second, and Eighth Districts
begin at the Florida border and stretch north to almost the middle of
the State. See ibid. (Edmondson, J., dissenting). In the 1980's, Georgia's Eighth District extended even farther, in an irregular pattern from
the southeast border with Florida to nearly the Atlanta suburbs. See
App. 80.
5The First District has 20 intact counties and parts of 2 others. The
Second District has 23 intact counties and parts of 12 others. The Third
District has 8 intact counties and parts of 8 others. The Fifth District is
composed of parts of 4 counties. The Seventh District has 10 intact counties and part of 1 county. The Eighth District has 22 intact counties and
parts of 10 others. The Ninth District has 19 intact counties and part of 1
other. The Tenth District has 16 intact counties and parts of 3 others.
See Joint Exh. 17.

MILLER v. JOHNSON
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

ter. See Defendant's Exh. 177, p. 4.6 Eighty-three percent
of the Eleventh District's geographic area is composed of
intact counties, above average for the State's congressional7
districts. 864 F. Supp., at 1396 (Edmondson, J., dissenting).
And notably, the Eleventh District's boundaries largely
follow precinct lines.8
Evidence at trial similarly shows that considerations other
than race went into determining the Eleventh District's
boundaries. For a "political reason"-to accommodate the
request of an incumbent State Senator regarding the placement of the precinct in which his son lived-the DeKalb
County portion of the Eleventh District was drawn to include a particular (largely white) precinct. 2 Tr. 187, 202.
The corridor through Effingham County was substantially
narrowed at the request of a (white) State Representative.
2 Tr. 189-190, 212-214. In Chatham County, the district
was trimmed to exclude a heavily black community in Garden City because a State Representative wanted to keep the
city intact inside the neighboring First District. 2 Tr. 218219. The Savannah extension was configured by "the narrowest means possible" to avoid splitting the city of Port
Wentworth. 4 Tr. 172-174, 175-178, 181-183.
6 The Sixth District scores lowest, with just 45 percent of its boundaries

following political subdivision lines. The Ninth District rates highest,
with 91 percent.

Defendant's Exh. 177, p. 3.

7On this measure, only three districts-the First, Seventh, and Ninthrate higher than the Eleventh District. Excluding the Fifth and Sixth
Districts, which contain no intact counties, the scores range from about 30
percent for the Fourth District to 97 percent for the Seventh District.
Id., at 4.
8
The Court turns the significance of this fact on its head by stating:
"'While the boundaries of the Eleventh do indeed follow many precinct
lines, this is because Ms. Meggers designed the Eleventh District along
racial lines, and race data was most accessible to her at the precinct
level."' Ante, at 919 (quoting 864 F. Supp., at 1384). To this curious

comment, one can only demur. Yes, Georgia's plan considered race, but
by following precinct lines, it did so in an altogether proper way, i. e.,
without disregarding traditional districting practices.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

Georgia's Eleventh District, in sum, is not an outlier district shaped without reference to familiar districting techniques. Tellingly, the district that the Court's decision
today unsettles is not among those on a statistically calculated list of the 28 most bizarre districts in the United States,
a study prepared in the wake of our decision in Shaw. See
Pildes & Niemi, 92 Mich. L. Rev., at 565.
C
The Court suggests that it was not Georgia's Legislature,
but the U. S. Department of Justice, that effectively drew
the lines, and that Department officers did so with nothing
but race in mind. Yet the "Max-Black" plan advanced by
the Attorney General was not the plan passed by the Georgia
General Assembly.9 See 864 F. Supp., at 1396-1397, n. 5
(Edmondson, J., dissenting) ("The Max-Black plan did influence to some degree the shape of the ultimate Eleventh District .... [But] the actual Eleventh is not identical to the
Max-Black plan. The Eleventh, to my eye, is significantly
show
different in shape in many ways. These differences
).10
....
race
beyond
matters
...consideration of other
And although the Attorney General refused preclearance
to the first two plans approved by Georgia's Legislature, the
State was not thereby disarmed; Georgia could have demanded relief from the Department's objections by instituting a civil action in the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia, with ultimate review in this Court.
Instead of pursuing that avenue, the State chose to adopt the
plan here in controversy-a plan the State forcefully defends
Appendixes A, B, and C to this opinion depict, respectively, the proposed Eleventh District under the 'Max-Black" plan, Georgia's current
congressional districts, and the district in controversy in Shaw.
10 Indeed, a "key" feature, ante, at 907, of the "Max-Black" plan-placing
proposal
parts of Savannah in the Eleventh District-first figured in asuggested
General
Attorney
the
before
even
adopted by Georgia's Senate
this course. 864 F. Supp., at 1394, n. 1 (Edmondson, J., dissenting).
9

MILLER v. JOHNSON
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

before us. We should respect Georgia's choice by taking its
position on brief as genuine.
D
Along with attention to size, shape, and political subdivisions, the Court recognizes as an appropriate districting
principle, "respect for . . . communities defined by actual
shared interests." Ante, at 916. The Court finds no community here, however, because a report in the record showed
"fractured political, social, and economic interests within the
Eleventh District's black population." Ante, at 919.
But ethnicity itself can tie people together, as volumes of
social science literature have documented-even people with
divergent economic interests. For this reason, ethnicity is
a significant force in political life. As stated in a classic
study of ethnicity in one city of immigrants:
"[M]any elements-history, family and feeling, interest,
formal organizational life-operate to keep much of New
York life channeled within the bounds of the ethnic
group....
".... The political realm.., is least willing to consider
[ethnicity] a purely private affair'....
"[P]olitical life itself emphasizes the ethnic character
of the city, with its balanced tickets and its special
appeals .... ." N. Glazer & D. Moynihan, Beyond the
Melting Pot 19-20 (1963).
See also, e. g., E. Litt, Beyond Pluralism: Ethnic Politics
in America 2 (1970) ("[E]thnic forces play a surprisingly
persistent role in our polities."); Ethnic Group Politics, Preface ix (H. Bailey & E. Katz eds. 1969) ("[E]thnic identifications do exist and . . . one cannot really understand the
American political process without giving special attention
to racial, religious and national minorities.").
To accommodate the reality of ethnic bonds, legislatures
have long drawn voting districts along ethnic lines. Our

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

Nation's cities are full of districts identified by their ethnic
character-Chinese, Irish, Italian, Jewish, Polish, Russian,
for example. See, e.g., S. Erie, Rainbows End: IrishAmericans and the Dilemmas of Urban Machine Politics,
1840-1985, p. 91 (1988) (describing Jersey City's "Horseshoe
district" as "lumping most of the city's Irish together"); Coveted Landmarks Add a Twist to Redistricting Task, Los
Angeles Times, Sept. 10, 1991, pp. Al, A24 ("In San Francisco in 1961,... an Irish Catholic [State Assembly member]
'wanted his district drawn following [Catholic] parish lines
so all the parishes where he went to baptisms, weddings
and funerals would be in his district' ....

");

Stone, Goode:

Bad and Indifferent, Washington Monthly, July-Aug. 1986,
pp. 27, 28 (discussing "The Law of Ethnic Loyalty- ... a
universal law of politics," and identifying "predominantly
Italian wards of South Philadelphia," a "Jewish Los Angeles
district," and a "Polish district in Chicago"). The creation
of ethnic districts reflecting felt identity is not ordinarily
viewed as offensive or demeaning to those included in the
delineation.
III
To separate permissible and impermissible use of race in
legislative apportionment, the Court orders strict scrutiny
for districting plans "predominantly motivated" by race. No
longer can a State avoid judicial oversight by giving-as in
this case-genuine and measurable consideration to traditional districting practices. Instead, a . federal case can be
mounted whenever plaintiffs plausibly allege that other factors carried less weight than race. This invitation to litigate
against the State seems to me neither necessary nor proper.
A
The Court derives its test from diverse opinions on the
relevance of race in contexts distinctly unlike apportionment.

MILLER v. JOHNSON
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

See ante, at 911-912.11 The controlling idea, the Court says,
is "'the simple command [at the heart of the Constitution's
guarantee of equal protection] that the Government must
treat citizens as individuals, not as simply components of a
racial, religious, sexual or national class."' See ante, at 911
(quoting Metro Broadcasting,Inc. v. FCC,497 U. S. 547, 602
(1990) (O'CONNOR, J., dissenting)) (some internal quotation
marks omitted). But cf. Strauderv. West Virginia,100 U. S.
303, 307 (1880) (pervading purpose of post-Civil War Amendments was to bar discrimination against once-enslaved race).
111 would follow precedent directly on point. In United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburgh, Inc. v. Carey, 430 U. S. 144 (1977) (UJO), even
though the State "deliberately used race in a purposeful manner" to create
majority-minority districts, id., at 165 (opinion of White, J., joined by
REHNQUIST and STEVENS, JJ.), seven of eight Justices participating voted
to uphold the State's plan without subjecting it to strict scrutiny. Five
Justices specifically agreed that the intentional creation of majorityminority districts does not give rise to an equal protection claim, absent
proof that the districting diluted the majority's voting strength. See ibid.
(opinion of White, J., joined by REHNQUIST and STEVENS, JJ.); id., at 179180 (Stewart, J., concurring in judgment, joined by Powell, J.).
Nor is UJO best understood as a vote dilution case. Petitioners' claim
in UJO was that the State had "violated the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments by deliberately revising its reapportionmentplan along racial lines." Id., at 155 (opinion of White, J., joined by Brennan, Blackmun,
and STEVENS, JJ.) (emphasis added). Petitioners themselves stated:
"'Our argument is ... that the history of the area demonstrates that

there could be-and in fact was--no reason other than race to divide the
community at this time."' Id., at 154, n. 14 (quoting Brief for Petitioners,
0. T. 1976, No. 75-104, p. 6, n. 6) (emphasis in Brief for Petitioners).
Though much like the claim in Shaw, the UJO claim failed because the
UJO district adhered to traditional districting practices. See 430 U. S.,
at 168 (opinion of White, J., joined by REHNQUIST and STEVENS, JJ.)
("[W]e think it... permissible for a State, employing sound districting
principles such as compactness and population equality,... [to] creat[e]
districts that will afford fair representation to the members of those racial
groups who are sufficiently numerous and whose residentialpatterns afford the opportunity of creating districts in which they will be in the
majority.") (emphasis added).

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

In adopting districting plans, however, States do not treat
people as individuals. Apportionment schemes, by their
very nature, assemble people in groups. States do not assign voters to districts based on merit or achievement,
standards States might use in hiring employees or engaging
contractors. Rather, legislators classify voters in groupsby economic, geographical, political, or social characteristics-and then "reconcile the competing claims of [these]
groups." Davis v. Bandemer, 478 U. S. 109, 147 (1986)
(O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment).
That ethnicity defines some of these groups is a political reality. Until now, no constitutional infirmity has been
seen in districting Irish or Italian voters together, for example, so long as the delineation does not abandon familiar apportionment practices. See supra, at 944-945. If
Chinese-Americans and Russian-Americans may seek and
secure group recognition in the delineation of voting districts, then African-Americans should not be dissimilarly
treated. Otherwise, in the name of equal protection, we
would shut out "the very minority group whose history
in the United States gave birth to the Equal Protection Clause."2 See Shaw, 509 U. S., at 679 (STEVENS, J.,
dissenting).
B
Under the Court's approach, judicial review of the same
intensity, i. e., strict scrutiny, is in order once it is determined that an apportionment is predominantly motivated by
race. It matters not at all, in this new regime, whether the
apportionment dilutes or enhances minority voting strength.
As very recently observed, however, "[t]here is no moral or
12Race-conscious practices a State may elect to pursue, of course, are
not as limited as those it may be required to pursue. See Voinovich v.
Quilter, 507 U. S. 146, 156 (1993) ('[F]ederal courts may not order the
creation of majority-minority districts unless necessary to remedy a viola-

tion of federal law. But that does not mean that the State's powers are
similarly limited.

Quite the opposite is true. ...") (citation omitted).

MILLER v. JOHNSON
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

constitutional equivalence between a policy that is designed
to perpetuate a caste system and one that seeks to eradicate
racial subordination." Adarand Constructors,Inc. v. Peita,
ante, at 243 (STEVENS, J., dissenting).
Special circumstances justify vigilant judicial inspection to
protect minority voters-circumstances that do not apply to
majority voters. A history of exclusion from state politics
left racial minorities without clout to extract provisions for
fair representation in the lawmaking forum. See supra, at
936-938. The equal protection rights of minority voters thus
could have remained unrealized absent the Judiciary's close
surveillance. Cf. United States v. Carolene Products Co.,
304 U. S.144, 153, n. 4 (1938) (referring to the "more searching judicial inquiry" that may properly attend classifications
adversely affecting "discrete and insular minorities"). The
majority, by definition, encounters no such blockage. White
voters in Georgia do not lack means to exert strong pressure
on their state legislators. The force of their numbers is
itself a powerful determiner of what the legislature will
do that does not coincide with perceived majority interests.
State legislatures like Georgia's today operate under federal constraints imposed by the Voting Rights Act-constraints justified by history and designed by Congress to
make once-subordinated people free and equal citizens. But
these federal constraints do not leave majority voters in need
of extraordinary judicial solicitude. The Attorney General,
who administers the Voting Rights Act's preclearance requirements, is herself a political actor. She has a duty to
enforce the law Congress passed, and she is no doubt aware
of the political cost of venturing too far to the detriment of
majority voters. Majority voters, furthermore, can press
the State to seek judicial review if the Attorney General
refuses to preclear a plan that the voters favor. Finally,
the Act is itself a political measure, subject to modification
in the political process.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 900 (1995)
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

C

The Court's disposition renders redistricting perilous work
for state legislatures. Statutory mandates and political realities may require States to consider race when drawing
district lines. See supra, at 935. But today's decision is a
counterforce; it opens the way for federal litigation if "traditional.., districting principles" arguably were accorded less
weight than race. See ante, at 916. Genuine attention to
traditional districting practices and avoidance of bizarre configurations seemed, under Shaw, to provide a safe harbor.
See 509 U. S., at 647 ("[T]raditional districting principles
such as compactness, contiguity, and respect for political subdivisions ...

are objective factors that may serve to defeat

a claim that a district has been gerrymandered on racial
lines."). In view of today's decision, that is no longer the
case.
Only after litigation-under either the Voting Rights Act,
the Court's new Miller standard, or both-will States now
be assured that plans conscious of race are safe. Federal
judges in large numbers may be drawn into the fray. This
enlargement of the judicial role is unwarranted. The reapportionment plan that resulted from Georgia's political process merited this Court's approbation, not its condemnation.
Accordingly, I dissent.
[Appendixes A and B, containing maps of Georgia's
proposed and current Eleventh Districts, and Appendix C,
containing a map of the Shaw v. Reno District, follow this
page.]

APPENDIX A

APPENDIX B

Proposed Eleventh District
Under "Max-Black" Plan

Current Congressional Districts

Georgia

Georgia

APPENDIX C
Shawv. Reno District

North Carolina

