OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

FOSTER, SHERIFF, ET AL. v. GILLIAM ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-126. Decided August 17, 1995
South Carolina's application for relief from an order of the Court of Appeals, which refused to stay the issuance of a writ of habeas corpus to
respondent criminal defendants, is granted in part and denied in part.
Respondents claimed double jeopardy by reason of a second trial, which
was calendared after the first trial ended in a mistrial over respondents'
objection. After the second trial started, the District Court enjoined
its continuation and released respondents from custody. Nothing can
undo the interruption of the state trial, and therefore the District
Court's order staying those proceedings will not be stayed. However,
the State has met the traditional criteria for a stay of the enlargement
of a prisoner in a habeas proceeding. Therefore respondents' enlargement will be stayed pending disposition of the State's appeal from the
District Court's order.

Justice.
The State of South Carolina seeks relief from an order of
the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in which that
court refused to stay the issuance of a writ of habeas corpus
to respondents, defendants in criminal proceedings in South
Carolina. The State asks that I stay the District Court's
order and allow the State to resume its prosecution of respondents, and stay the enlargement of respondents pending
appellate review of their habeas corpus petition.
Respondents were prosecuted in South Carolina state
court in 1994 on charges of murder and lynching. During
the trial, confusion and dispute arose over whether particular photographs that had been seen by the jury during a
luncheon recess had actually been admitted into evidence or
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit

1301

1302

FOSTER v. GILLIAM
Opinion in Chambers

were merely marked for identification. The prosecuting attorney's motion for a mistrial was granted by the trial court
over respondents' objection, and the trial court calendared
the case for a second trial starting July 17, 1995. Between
the first and the second trial, the trial court denied a motion
by respondents to dismiss the charges on grounds of double
jeopardy, and the Supreme Court of South Carolina dismissed respondents' appeal without ruling on its merits.
Respondents then sought habeas relief in federal court
under 28 U. S. C. ยง2254, and sought to enjoin the imminent
second trial pending final disposition of their habeas petition.
On July 11, 1995, six days before the second trial was to
start, the District Court for the District of South Carolina
refused to issue an injunction, and a panel of the Court of
Appeals affirmed the District Court's determination four
days later, with one judge in dissent. On July 20, three days
into the trial, the Court of Appeals en banc granted respondents' request for a temporary restraining order, enjoined the
state proceedings until the District Court ruled on respondents' habeas petition, and ordered the District Court to rule
on the petition as expeditiously as possible. The State did
not apply for a stay of the Court of Appeals' order at this
time.
The very next day, the District Court, having held an
8-hour hearing to investigate respondents' double jeopardy
claim, granted respondents' petition for a writ of habeas corpus. (This order, though entered July 21, was not reduced
to writing for another week.) The District Court denied the
State's application to stay the issuance of the writ on July
31, and the Court of Appeals denied a similar application
on August 8. The State then made the application before
me now.
However debatable may have been the justification for the
Court of Appeals' July 20 order enjoining the continuation
of a state criminal trial that had already begun, the trial was
interrupted as of that date, and the State sought no relief in

Cite as: 515 U. S. 1301 (1995)

Opinion in Chambers

this Court from the order of the Court of Appeals. Nothing
I do now, several weeks later, can undo the interruption of
the state trial, and I therefore decline to stay the District
Court's order granting habeas relief to the extent that it
enjoins the resumption of the state trial proceedings.
That portion of the District Court's order releasing respondents from custody, however, seems to me to stand on a
different footing, and I believe that the State has met the
traditional criteria for a stay of the enlargement of a prisoner
in a habeas corpus proceeding. The state trial court ruled
against respondents' double jeopardy claims on the merits.
In Arizona v. Washington, 434 U. S. 497 (1978), we held that
one claiming double jeopardy by reason of a second trial
must show that there was no "manifest necessity" for the
trial court to grant the State's mistrial motion. And we
stated that the trial court's judgment about the necessity is
entitled to great deference, never more so than when the
judgment is based on an evaluation of such factors as the
admissibility of evidence, any prejudice caused by the introduction of such evidence, and the trial court's familiarity
with the jurors. Id., at 513-514. Washington indicates
that the State will be able to present at the least a substantial case on the merits on appeal, and the other traditional
factors in a stay analysis counsel in favor of continued custody. See Hilton v. Braunskill, 481 U.S. 770, 777-778
(1987) (discussing the circumstances in which a stay of enlargement should be granted under Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure 23(c) and (d), which are virtually identical to
this Court's Rules 36.3(b) and 36.4). I will therefore stay
the enlargement of respondents under the District Court's
July 21 order pending disposition of the State's appeal from
that order (now set for argument before the en banc court
on September 26) by the Court of Appeals.
Accordingly, the application for stay of enlargement is
granted, and the application is otherwise denied.

