OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

words or by the apparent purpose of the statute; and there.
fore in each of these cases
Judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded to the
Court of Appeals with directions to reverse the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and to
order a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE McKENiKA

dissented.

BELLINGHAM BAY & BRITISH COLUMBIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. NEW WHATCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 96. Argued December 16, 189S. -Decided

January8, 1899.

An answer by the defendant in an action in a state court brought to enforce
a lien created by a reassessment of taxes upon its real estate, which sets
up that the notice of the reassessment was insufficient, and that by reason
thereof its property was sought to be taken without due process of law,
and in conflict with the terms of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, raises a Federal question of which this court has jurisdiction.
When a notice is duly given to landowners by municipal authorities in full
accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the State touching the
time and place for determining the amounts assessed upon their lands
for the cost of street improvements, such notice, so authorized by the
legislature, will not be set aside as ineffectual on account of the shortness of the time unless the case is a clear one.
In view of the character of the improvements in this case, of the residence
of the plaintiff in error, of the almost certainty that it must have known
of the improvements, and of the action of the Supreme Court of the
State, ruling that the notice was sufficient, it is held by this court to
have been sufficient.
Before proceedings for the collection of taxes, sanctioned by the Supreme
Court of a State, are stricken down in this court, it must clearly appear
that some one of the fundamental guarantees of right contained in the
Federal Constitution has been invaded.

PROR to February 16, 1891, there were in the State of
Washington two cities known as Whatcom and New Whatcom. On that date they were consolidated in conformity

BELLINGHAM BAY &c. CO. v. NEW WHATCOM.

315

Statement of the Case.

with the general laws of the State, the consolidated city
taking the title of the "City of New Whatcom." In July,
1890, and prior to the consolidation, New Whatcom ordered
the improvement of Elk street, between Elk street east and
North street. The contract therefor was let in August, 1890.
The contract was completed and the improvement accepted
by the city, and jn October, 1890, an assessment was levied
upon the abutting property. After the consolidation the
present city bf New Whatcom commenced several suits in
the superior court of Whatcom County against various defendants owning lots abutting on the improvement, and
sought to obtain decrees foreclosing the liens created by the
assessment. On January 13, 1894, the superior court entered
decrees annulling the assessment, and these decrees were
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State on February 14,
1895. The ground of the decision was, as stated by the trial
court in its conclusions of law, "that said assessments were
not made or apportioned in accordance with the benefits
received by the property, but were made upon an arbitrary
rule, irrespective of the benefits." On March 9, 1893, the
legislature passed a general act providing for the reassessment
of the cost of local improvements in case the original assessment
shall have been or may be directly or indirectly set aside,
annulled or declared void by any court. Laws Wash. 1893,
p. 226.
Sections. 4, 5 and 8 bear upon the matter of notice, and are
as follows:.
"SEc. 4. Upon receiving the said assessment roll the clerk
of such city or town shall give notice by three (3) successive
publications in the official newspaper of such city or town,
that such assessment roll is on file in his office, the date of
filing of same, and said notice shall state a time at which the
council will hear and consider objections to said assessment
roll by the parties aggrieved by such assessment. The owner
or owners of any property which is assessed in such assessnient roll, whether named or not in such roll, may within ten
(10) days from the last publication provided herein, file with
the clerk his objections in writing to said assessment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"SEC. 5. At the time appointed for hearing objections to
such assessment the council shall hear and determine all
objections which have been filed by any party interested, to
the regularity" of the proceedings in making such reassessment
and to the correctness of the amount of such reassessment, or
of the amount levied on any particular lot or parcel of land;
and the council shall have the power to adjourn such hearing
from time to time, and shall have power, in their discretion,
to revise, correct, confirm or set aside, and to order that such
assessment be made de novo, and such council shall pass an
order approving and confirming said proceedings and said
reassessment as corrected by them, and their decision and
order shall be a final determination of the regularity, validity
and correctness of said reassessment, to the amount thereof,
levied on each lot or parcel of- land. If the council of any
such city consists of two houses the hearing shall be had
before a joint session, but the ordinance approving and confirming the reassessment shall be passed in the same manner
as other ordinances."
"SEc. 8. Any person who has filed objections to such new
assessment or reassessment, as hereinbefore provided, shall
have the right to appeal to the superior court of this State
and county in which such city or town may be situated."
On March 18, 1895, the city council passed an ordinance prescribing the mode of procedure for collecting the cost of a
local reassessment upon the property benefited thereby. On
June 10, 1895, it ordered a new assessment upon the blocks,
lots and parcels of land benefited by the improvement on Elk
street, hereinbefore described, and directed the various officers
of the city to take the steps required by the general ordinance
of March 18. These steps were all taken in conformity to
such ordinance, and on August 7, 1895, a further ordinance
was passed reciting what had been done, approving it and
confirming the reassessment.
The recital in that ordinance in respect to notice was as follows:
"Whereas, said city council did on the 8th day of July,
1895, order said assessment roll filed in the office of the city

BELLIIGH&M BAY &c. CO. v. NEW WHATCOIML

311

Opinion of the Court.

clerk, and fixed Monday, July 22, 1895, at 7.30 P.m., as a
time at which they would hear, consider and determine any
and all objections to the regularity of the proceedings in making such assessments, or to the amount to be assessed upon any
block, lot or tract of land for said improvements; and
"Whereas, notice of such hearing was duly published in the
official paper of the city of New Whatcom, to wit: in the
Daily Reveille, in three consecutive issues thereof, the same
being the issues of July 9, 10 and 11, 1895."
The Bellingham Bay and British Coluimbia Railroad Company was a private corporation, organized under the laws of
the State of California, but authorized to do business in the
State of Washington, and having its principal office in the
city of New Whatcom. It was the owner of certain property
abutting upon the Elk street improvement, and which by the
proceedings of the city council was held benefited by such
improvement and charged with a portion of the cost. Failing to pay this charge, the city of New Whatcom instituted
suit in the superior court of Whatcom County to foreclose the
liens created by the reassessment. A decree was rendered in
favor of the city, which, on appeal, was affirmed by the Supreme Court on December 8, 1896, 16 Wash. St. 131, whereupon this writ of error was sued out.
.M. L. T. A1ichener for plaintiff in error.
r.TV.
IF. I..Dudley and .21r. John B. Allen were on his brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. Jusrice BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
By its answer the defendant raised a Federal question, inasmuch as it alleged that the notice of the reassessment was
insufficient, and specifically that by reason thereof its property
was sought to be taken without due process of law and in
conflict with the terms of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction of the
case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

That notice of the reassessment was essential is not questioned, Davidson v. -ew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 105; agar
v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701, 710; Cooley on Taxation, 266; and that constructive notice by publication may be
sufficient is conceded, Zent v. Tillsom, 140 U. S. 816, 328;
Paulsen v. Portland,149 U. S. 30; but the contention is that
the notice, which was provided for, and which was in fact
given, was insufficient, because it was only a ten days' notice.
We quote from the brief of counsel:
"While we concede in the first instance to the legislature the
authority to prescribe the time of the notice, we assert that
this is not an absolute authority relieved from judicial review.
The shortening of the time and the limiting of opportunity to
be informed through constructive notice may be such as to
render the notice unavailing for the purpose for which notice
is designed. If that be the case it is not notice. To prescribe
that within ten days after the contingency of a three days'
publication the landowner is left without redress for any kind
of burden that may be placed upon his property in the way
of taxation amounts to a taking of property without due process of law. Under the pretence of prescribing and regulating notice, all practical notice cannot be taken away. There
is a limit to legislative power in shortening the time of notice,
and if that limit is transcended the courts will hold it void."
We are unable to concur in these views. It may be that
the authority of the legislature to prescribe the length of
notice is not absolute and beyond review, but it is certain
that only in a clear case will a notice authorized by the legislature be set aside as wholly ineffectual on account of the
shortness of the time. The purpose of notice is to secure to
the owner the opportunity to protect his property from the.
lien of the proposed tax or some part thereof. In order to be
effectual it should be so full and clear as to disclose to persons
of ordinary intelligence in a general way what is proposed.
If service is made only by publication, that publication must
be of such a character as to create a reasonable presumption
that the owner, if present and taking ordinary care of his
property, will receive the information of what is proposed

BELLINGHAI

BAY &c. CO. v. NEW WHATCOM.

319

Opinion of the Court.

and when and where he may be heard. And the time and
place must be such that with reasonable effort he will be enabled to attend and present his objections. Here no question
is made of the form of the notice. It was published in three
successive issues of the official paper of the -city. So the
statute required. What more appropriate way of publishing
the action of a city than in its official .paper? Where else
would one interested more naturally look for information?
And is not a repetition in three successive issues of the paper
sufficient? How seldom is more than that required? Indeed,
we do not understand that any challenge is made of the sufficiency of the publication. But when that is made and is sufficient, notice is given. The fact that the owner after being
notified is required to appear and file his objections within
ten days, is thus the sole ground of complaint. But how
many days can the courts fix as a minimum? How much
time can be adjudged necessary as matter of ]aw for preparing and filing objections? How many and intricate and
difficult are the questions involved? Regard must always be
had to the probable necessities of ordinary cases. No hardship to a particular individual can invalidate a general rule.
A reassessment implies not merely the fact of the improvement, but also that one attempt had been made to collect the
cost and failed. Inquiry had been had in the courts, and the
one assessment set aside. The facts were known. Ten days'
time, therefore, does not seem unreasonably short for present
ing objections to a reassessment.
And there is nothing in the case of this plaintiff in error to
suggest any injustice. It, though a corporation of the State
of California, was doing business in the State of Washington,
and having its principal office in the city of Whatcom. In
other words, it was domiciled in the city in which the improvement was made. The improvement made on the street,
on which its lots abutted, consisted in grading, planking and
sidewalking. It is, to say the least, highly irnprobable that
it could have been ignorant of the fact that they were made.
It must have known also that such improvements have to be
paid for, and that the ordinary method of payment is by local

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

assessment on the property benefited - the abutting property
being primarily the property benefited. A previous assessment had been made for the cost of these improvements.
Litigation followed, which was carried to the Supreme Court
of the State, and resulted adversely to the city. It is true
this plaintiff in error was not a party of record in that litigation, and counsel criticise a statement in the opinion of the
Supreme Court in this case, that "it appears that the appellant has -been contesting the proceedings to collect the cost of
these improvements for several years past, and that no hardship has resulted in consequence of the shortness of time prescribed;" yet it may be that the court was advised by counsel
that it bad contributed to the cost of that litigation, and at
any rate it is difficult to believe, that it was ignorant all these
years of 'vhat was going on.
In view, therefore, of the character of the improvements,
the residence of the plaintiff in error, the almost certainty
that it must have known of the improvements and that it
would be expected to pay for them, it is impossible to hold
that a ten days' notice was so short as to be absolutely void.
And especially is this true when the. Supreme Court of the
State in which the proceedings were had has ruled that it
was sufficient. Before proceedings for the collection of taxes
sanctioned by the Supreme Court of a State are stricken down
in this court it must clearly appear that some one of the fundamental guarantees of right contained in the Federal Constitution has been invaded.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Washington is
Afirmed.

BELLINGHAM BAY IMPROVEMENT

SAME v. SAnME.

Nos. 97

MR. JUSTicE BREwER.

COMiPANY v.

NEW WHATcoM.

and 98. Argued with No. 96.
These cases involve the same questions,

and the same judgments of affirmance will be entered in them.

