WASHINGTON MARKET CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

361

Syllabus.

are (iund;' and. if they are in conflict with the general doetrine o6f the exemption from state control of the chancery
prctice .f the Federal courts, as regards mere modes of procedure, they are of paramount force, and the latter must to
that exteat cgive way. It would seem that no argument is
nec,6sa7 to establish the proposition that when substantial
rightp, resting upon. a statute, which is clearly within the legislative power, come in conflict with mere forms and modes
of procedure in the-courts, the latter must give way, and adapt
themselves to the forms necessary to give effect to such rights.
The. flexibility of chancery methods, by which it moulds its
decreesi so as to give appropriate relief in all cases within its
jurisdiction, enables it:to do thisi without violence to principle,
If' one or the other. must give way, good sense unhesitatingly
requiresthat justice and positive rights, founded both on valid
statutes and valid contracts, should not be sacrificed to mere
questionsof mode and form." See also to the same effect the
ease: of -Holland v. Challew, 1:10 ' .S.15.
SOf ourse, these views are. not, applicable to cases arising
out of interstate commefce, where the policy to be enforced is
Federal. Nor has it been found! necessary to consider whether
the agreement between these parties was, as a contract of
life insurance, void because the defendant had not complied
with the statutes of Minnesota.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming that
of the Circuit Court, is accordingly

.4firmed.

WASHINGTON

MARKET COMPANY v. DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

.,PPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 88. Argued December 9, 12, 1898. - Decided January 8, 1899
tn the provision In'the 16th section of the act of May 20, 1870, c. 108, ,,to
incorporate the Washington Market Company," that "the city gqvernnent of Washington shall have the riglit to *hold and use, under such

OCTOBER TERI , 1898.
Statement of the Case.
rules and regulations as the said corporation may prescribe, the open
space at the intersection of Ohio and Louisiana avenues with Tenth and
Twelfth streets as a market," etc., the words "the said corporation"
refer to the city government of Washington,, and not to the Market
Company.
The correspondence between the Market Company and the city government
respecting the use and improvement of this tract which is printed below
as a note to the statement of the case, creates no easement in the tract
in favor of the Market Company; and the company recognized the fact
that Congress might lawfully dispossess it from the use and occupancy
of it.

Tn Washington Market Company was incorporated by
act of Congress, approved May 20, 1870. 16 Stat. 121, c. 108.
Authority was conferred upon the company to construct suitable buildings and operate a public market on the site of the
"'Centre Market Space,"' situated in the northwest section
of the city of Washington, between Seventh and Ninth streets
and B street and Pennsylvania and Louisiana avenues. With
the exception of the sixteenth section, the provisions 6f the
statute related solely to the public market thus authorized
and the operation and duration of the franchise.
The sixteenth section is as follows:
'S:o. 16. And be' it furtl]er enacted, That the city government of Washington shall have the right to hold and use,
under-such rules and regulations as the said corporation may
prescribe, the open space at the intersection of Ohio and
Louisiana avenues with Tenth and Twelfth streets as a market for the purchase and sale of the following articles, to
.wit: Hay, straw, oats, corn, corn-meal," seed of all kinds,
wood for sale from the wagon, cattle on the hoof, swine on
the hoof, country -produce 6old in quantities from the wagon,
and such other bulky and coarse articles as the said corporation may designate. And from and after sixty days from the
passage of this act marketing of the products named herein
shall be excluded from Pennsylvania and Louisiana avenues
and the sidewalks and pavements thereon."
The present litigation was begun on January 17, 1892, by
the "filing on behalf of the Washington Market Company' of
a bill in the Supreme Court of the District, the defendant
-

WASHINGTON MARKET CO. v.' DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

363

Statement of the Case.

named therein being the District of Columbia. The bill
averred that the complainant was vested by the section above
quoted with authority to establish the rules and regulations
therein referred to for the government of the wholesale market authorized to be established. It was also averred that under
authority of what was claimed to be a contract arising from
correspondence had with the District, c6mplainant, in 1871,
entered into possession of a part of the open market space
referred to in said section 16, and, in 1886, of the entire space.
The correspondence relied on is set out in the margin.' It
I WASHnGTON MARKET CoiPA y, November 8,- 1871.
Hon. Henry D. Cooke, Governor of the District of Columbia.
SIR: In section 16 of the charter of this company of May 20, 1870, the
open space at the intersection of Ohio and Louisiana avenues with Tenth
and Twelfth streets is assigned as a market for cattle and bulky and coarse
articles to be sold in quantities from the wagon, and the marketing of such
products in Pennsylvania and Louisiana avenues is prohibited.
Notwithstanding this prohibition dealers are continuing to occupy Louisiana avenue in defiance of law and to the great injury of property holders
on that avenue. This company has been unable to enforce the prohibition
because the open space above referred -to has not been properly prepared
to enable dealers to occupy the grounds for market purposes as provided
in the law.
By the act of Congress the Washington Market Company is entitled to
establish the rules and regulations which shall govern the market upon the
open space, but it is a question whether or not it was the intention of Congress that this company should derive any income therefrom.
Under these circumstances, to meet a pressing public necessity, this
company purposes, with your permission, properly to grade the grounds
and to place thereon suitable platforms of inexpensive construction, which
will enable the marketmen to do business on the open space as contemplated
by the act, charging them for the use of their stands such sums as you and
the District authorities may prescribe not to exceed the interest on the
actual outlay and the actual expenditures for keeping the market in order.
There can be no possible objection to this course of action, and we trust
you will give it your approval at once, as there is a necessity for immediate
action.
We have the honor to be, very respectffilly,
T. C. CONNELL-Y,
HALL=TT KIrOURnx
ADOLF CLUSS,

WM. E. CHANLER,
Committee of the Washington Market Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

was alleged that the complainant graded the grounds and
made valuable structures thereon; that it had operated and
was still operating a wholesale market thereon, and that it
had received and was receiving the sources of revenue menApproved, subject to such. regulations as the Legislative Assembly may
hereafter prescribe. H. D. Cooke, Governor.
WASHINGTON MARKUT COMPANY, April 8, 1872.

To the Governor and Board of Public Works of the District of Columbia:'
The Washington Market Company is now in possession of the open space
at the intersection of Ohioand Louisiana avenues with Tenth and Twelfth
streets, in accordance with the sixteenth section of the act of Congresu of
May 20, 1870, and the agreement made with the Governor of the District,
as per agreement of November 8, 1871, as followS.
(Here follows a copy of the letter and approval printed above.)
Since taking possession of the open space thus assigned for a wholesale market the. company have purchased from the District authorities
the buildings thereon belonging to the city of Washington; have suitably
graded the surface, and have also commenced the erection of structures
thereon necessary for wholesale market purposes, having already completed
an open market or platform shed o4 thenorth side of B street over 200 feet
long I also an open platform. shed 200 feet long on,the north side of the
grounds, with eating-house and storehouses, and have in addition made
arrangements to erect a large open building for loads of hay, grain and
wood, and, suitable stables, pens and cattle yards, as, soon as the conicrete
paving company, now occupying the western portion of said ground, shall
vacate the same; all to be done -to the satisfaction of the District authorities, and in sucl manner As. to furnish creditable accommodations for a
wholesale market.
In order to more effectually carry out the Xoregoing arrangement, entered
into November 8, 1871, the company now propose to the Governor and to
the Board of Public Works, which by law has control of the streets and
avenues of the Dlistrit, that the said company shall be allowed to collect
of dealers In said wholesale market the following sums:
Amount
Each
Each
Each
Each
Each
Each
E ach
Each

per day.
$0.10
....................................
one-horse team
15
................
two-horse team .....................
20
three-horse team ............................................
25
four-horse team .......... ..................................
20
head of neat cattle ....................................
25
cow and calf ........................................ 4.......
05
sw ine .......................................................
05
sheep ......................................................

The Market Company also to charge such reasonable rent for storage as
may be agreed upon with the parties using their buildings.

WASHINGTON MARKET CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

365

Statement of- the Case.

tiohed in the alleged contrict, except'as to certain charges
which it was averred defendant had wrongfully abolished.
I it-was charged that not'6nly by the abolition of tolls, above
N6ferred -to, but by other acts of inteirference by the District
and also by recent' public assertioifi of'an ;exclusive right to
toss'Is' and regulate said market; the receipts from the operatIon of 'the same had berni greatly'dininishedi so that the exI ehses of fiaintaining the market' had been largely in excess
of the sum received from its operation. It was prayed that
ait account might Vb taken and the- DiStrict decreed to pay
the 1-ses 6casioned by it; that the District might also be
kestiained ff rbi prescribing or attempting to prescribe rdks
and regulations for said market, from interfering with the
sources of revenue mentioned in the contract, and from
forcibly ousting or resorting to legal proceedings to ob.
The ,6onnpan wiil also keep an ofceopen at al houts of the day and
night for the accommodation of dealers, where produce can be measured
and weighed, and will furnish suitable watchmen to take charge of the
market .nld collect the revenues thereof.

From the reventres collccted the Market Company will retain sufficient
to pay all expenses of managing and keeping in reppr an good conditi6li
the buildings and grounds, with ten per cent annually on the cost of im,preuep.Is,
(whcbh re tq be,made at the ,op~ay's charge,),and the com~any shall pay over to the Distriqt fathorities the residup or balance of the
reeue by themi do hece d.
'ft by matliority of Congress the compny houla atany time be dispos sessed ot the Use and occupandy of the market grounds, it shall be entitled
to receive a fair compdnsation for its bIuildings and improvements thereon.
WASH!NGTON MARKET COMPA*NY,.
By M. G. ExE y, Prb'esidene.

BOARD OF PUBLIC WoRKs, DIsTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
WAS1INGTON, April 26, 1874.
The Washington Market Company.
In reply ,to your .oninitilation of April 8, 1872 I have to inform you
tI~at~hte Board have this day passe(lthe following vote "To approve the
arrangement with the Washington karket Company, proposed In the company's letter of April 8 18't2, rel'ative to the open space at the Intersection
of';.6hI land Loijsana avenues and Tenth and Twelfth streets, used as
a wholesale imarket; thiIs arrangement not to prejudice any lawful future
actign of the Board, of. the Legislative Assembly or of Congress."
Very respectfully,
ALEX. R. SHEPHERD, !lce President.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tain possession of the premises. General relief was alo
prayed.
The answer of the District asserted the invalidity of the
alleged contract; averred that the District alone was entitled
to occupy said market space and to establish rules and regulations respecting the conduct of the- market; and further
averred the legality of any action taken by or on its behalf
respecting said market space and the tolls imposed in the
operation of the market.
The court entered a decree dismissing the bill; and, on
appeal, its action was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the
District. (6 App. Cas. D. 0. 3.) An appeal was then taken
to this court.
-Afr. William Birney for appellant.
ilXr. S. T. Thomas for appellee.
his brief.
MR. JUSaICE

WHITE,

jir.A. B. Duvall was on

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
It is difficult to determine precisely the theory upon which
appellant predicates its right to relief at the hands of a court
of equity. In the bill what is termed a "title to possession"
of the market grounds is asserted to be in complainant, and
its right not only to prescribe rules and regulations with
.respect to the market is averred, but also a right to the sources
of revenue, mentioned in the alleged contract. Despite, however, the position thus taken' in the pleadings, and the fact
that the complainant demanded that the District be compelled
to account for the losses which it is alleged the complainant
had sustained by claimed wrongful interferences of the District, counsel, in the argument at bar, bases the right to relief
solely upon the prayer for general relief c6ntained in the bill.
In consequence of this abandonment of the specific grounds
stated in the bill, the argument at bar is that whilst the Market Company, under the section above referred to, had" not

WASIIINGTON MARKET CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

367

Opinion of 'the Court.

obtained a general power to regulate and, control the market,
it was by said section vested with the power to l6cate 'and
assign stands therein, and that the facts averred and shown by
the proofs established an implied contract, by which the District constituted the company an agent to manage and control
the market and collect and disburse the revenues therefrom.
And, it is then argued, that from these facts such a situation
resulted as that it would be inequitable to permit the District
to interfere in any wise with the possession, control and management of the market, without antecedently "reim b u tsing
appellant for, moneys expended as its agent in the administration of the wholesale market of Washington city."
Disregarding the fact that the claims asserted in the pleadings on the one hand and at bar on the other are divergent,
we shall examine the contentions urged in the order in which
they have been made.
As to the claim that the .Market Comany is the corporation
empowered by section 16 of the charter to establish rules and
regulationswith respect to the market therein authorized.
We do not find in the text of the statute anything justifying
a construction of the words "rules and regulations" as employed in section 16, which would attach to them a less broad
signification than is given to the word "regulations" in the
second section, in which section, with reference to the public
market authorized to be constructed and maintained by
the Washington Market 'Company, it was provided that "the
municipal government of said city shall at all times have the
power to make and enforce such regulations with regard to
said market and the management thereof as in their judgment
the convenience, health and safety of the community may
require." The fact that the power to establish and enforce
regulations with respect to the market to be' erected by the
Market Company was vested in the municipality, and the
further fact that a voice in the establishment of the amount
of rent to be paid for stalls in the market of the company
was expressly conferred upon the District authorities, prevents the inference that, with reference to the market which
the city itself was "to hold and use," the cityr was deprived

OCTOBER~
T,,Ii 18?98.
Opinion of the Court.

of the power to make rules and regulations, or that ia ,road
and comprehensive authority to establish such rules and, regulations. was vested in ths Market Company. The grammatical sfructure of the sentence also supports the view that- the
corporation referred to in the sixteenth section was the city
government, for the nearest antecedent to the word "corporation" is the city government of Washington, the Market Company not being named at all in. the section.
As Tespects the alleged contract 8tated in the bill to have been
initiatedin 1871 and perfected in 1874.
By the written proposal concerning the use and occupancy
of the open market space, bearing date November 8, 1871,
addressed to the Governor of the District, the Washington
Market Company stated: "This company proposes, with your
permission, properly to grade- the grounds and to place thereon
suitable platforms of inexpensive construction, which will enable the marketmen to do business on the open space as con'templated by the act, charging them for the use of their
stands such sums as you and the District authorities may presc:ibe, not to exceed the interest on the actual outlay and the
actual expenditures for keeping the market in order." And
it was added: "There can be no possible objection to this
course." Upon this letter was placed the, following indorsement: ."Approved, subject to such regulations as the legislative Assembly may hereafter prescribe. H. D. Cooke,
Governor."
Irrespective of what may have been the power possessed
by the Governor concerning the market grounds or market,
it is clear that there is nothing in this proposal of the Market
Company, or in the qualified approval of the Governor importinga surrender by the Legislative Assembly of any rights which
by law were vested in it, such as the power to establish and
alter at pleasure the rules and regulations with respect to the
manner of occupancy and the tolls to be exacted for the use
of stands. Certainly no easement was attempted to be created
in favor of the Market Company in the land; at most, there
was a mere revocable license, tq-hold and use the grounds.
So, also, the language of the communication was carefully

WASHINGTON Aa

KkETCJ0W.'. ]DfST -dI COLUMBIA.
Opinion -ok the

S69:

ourt.-.

framed to permit no "infdrenbe that the
6,Distri6t !w'ould inbuiV4
any pecuniary liability, for the costof, grading- ibthe'_erti6bof the inekpensive platforms. The 'Market Cobmpany was
evidently interested in' theplacing-of the grounds' Jif; sgulable&
condition for occupancy by dealers; :and was willing to~assunf'
the risk of making expenditures,,in-'reliance upon -fai treatmen't and good faith on the part rof the District authorities.
The' communication of April 8, 1872,(,"ydencedl the fact'
that the Market Company had gone into 'possession? of it"grounds,, had graded- the, surface 4nd: erected,,two P1atfOrms,i
one of which contained an eating-house and storehou's~s. .Th-i
company solicited authority to collect certain tolls and charges,
including storage fees, and agreed to keep' an office-upon the:
grounds and furnish suitable'watchmen,, and after-applying
the revenues to'the expenses f ma aement
.. and' kee.ing in'
repair and good; condition the grounds,,'with1 ien per'cent'
annually on, the 'cost of inmprovemefits, promised" to_ pay over,
the balance of revenue, if an", to -theDistrict 'That the con'!
party did not consider itself in
uthe light-of an' agent 'o 'employ4- of the city in making imprsvements -o0n the grounds;'
is shown in the communication. : Th'ut, th-albuildings "Tor thef
use of, which, it Solicited authority t6 charge' storag-'rent are'
referred to As "their" buildings., It' is expressl 'staked 4in2
connection with' the stipulation that the' corlpan ymight',retain from the 'revenub ten per cent anfiually AUthe6 cost ofimprovements, that'suchii mprovementg-w-re '5t be made- at
the company's. charge; ?' and 'it is als0'-tated that the com-i
pany' should be entitled toreceive-a fair compensation for
"its" buildings'and improvements on t6'nmarket 'gromunds if)
by authority 'of -ongregs th6 compavy sho-id at any, tinie bw
dispossessed of the use and occupancy of the grounds. While
this latter arrange-men't is said'to hang bbertd6ally'adquiekcd
in, it was 'not until April' 6,'1874 'th:tVformaif offiial dctionj
warI taken , approving the ',same, with' 'he',- .roriso,;however,
that' the arrangement 1was ,not t6'prajndic- hn" lawful future-!
action' of' the 'Board, of 1the Legaislative -;Assembly-br of-bnrerhe ovenoran
Assuming 'that authority was ' vested'inthe -GovTernor and
VOL. cLxx-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Board of Public Works to enter into the arrangement suggested in the second, proposition of the company, it is clear
that thereby no easement was created in the land in favor of
theMarket Company, and the company recognized 'the fact
that Congress might lawfully dispossess the Market Company
froni the use and occupancy of the grounds. The qualified
acceptance of the proposal at most only constituted an implied
assurance on the part of the Governor and Board of Public
Works that the company, so far as those officials had the
power, would not be disturbed in its possession without just
cause. There was no agreement that a source of revenue
would be supplied adequate to meet the expenditures, or that
the District assumed liability for any deficit in: the revenue.
If, however, the correspondence and action taken thereon
could be construed as importing an agreement to impose a
pecuniary liability on the District, an inspection of the terms
of the organic act of February 21, 1871, c. 62, 16 Stat. 419,
providing a government for the District of Columbia, clearly
establishes that it was without the power of the officials undertaking to enter into the arrangement. The making of
regulations with respect to the use of the market grounds and
the establishment of a tariff of charges with the power to subsequently alter or abolish the same, and the authority to incur a pecuniary liability with respect to the improvement of
the market grounds, the erection of market buildings and the
operation of the market, were beyond question within the
province of the Legislative Assembly, and any assumption on
the part of the Governor, either with or without the sanction
*of the Board of Public Works, of authority to conclude the
Legislative Assembly in such matters, would have been purely
ult a vires.
There was nothing in the conduct of the District subsequent
to 1874 which, if it possessed the power, could be construed as
a ratification of the alleged contract or as importing binding
efficacy upon the District. There was certainly no recognition
of the Market Company as a mere employ6 making expenditures and disbursing revenues'solely as the agent of a principal, and the District authorities were never notified that the

WASHINGTON MARKET CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

3.71

Opinion of the Court.

Market Company would look to it for repayment-of any deficit
in revenues. So long as the company was willing to care for
the grounds and to operate the market, while the annual
revenues were less than the ordinary expenses of management,
as appears to have been the case, without calling upon the
District to assume the responsibility for a deficit, there was
no occasion for the District to take decisive action. The
furnishing of accounts, beginning with 1888, possesses no
-weight, as manifestly the District was interested in the
ascertainment of the fact whether or not there was any surplus revenue to which it was entitled.
The facts in the case at bar bear no analogy to those which
were present in the cases referred to in Pomeroy's Equity
Jurisprudence,' (Vol. 1, sec. 390,) to which our attention has
been directed by counsel for the appellant. There individuals,
acting on the supposition that they had a title to or interest
in lands, expended money in erecting buildings or other improvements thereon, 'while the real owner stood by and made
no protest. NbTo ground exists for the pretence that such was
the case here. A court of equity will not relieve an individual
from the operation of the Statute of Frauds which requires
that interest in lands be created by an instrument of writing,
and impose an equitable lien upon land in favor of one who
makes improvements thereon, knowing that the title is in
another, especially where the money is expended under an
express understanding with reference -thereto had with the
owner, but will leave the party to the remedies, if any, which
a court of law provides.
These views dispose of the case and require an affirmance
of the decree of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia.

-Decree affirmed.
1 .Powell v. Thomas, 6 Hare, 300; Bamsden v. Dyson, L. R. 1 H. L. 129.

