OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

ANDERSEN 0. TREAT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 415. Argued November 8, 1808. -Decided November 14, 1898.
The principle that a writ of habeas corpus cannot be made use of as a writ
of error is again announced and affirmed.
Where a petition for a writ of habeas copus is founded upon judicial proceedings which are claimed to be void, and those proceedings and the
records thereof are insufficiently set forth in the petition, the originals
may be referred to on the hearing.
It appearing on examination of the original record and proceedings that
the contention of the petitioner as to the facts is not supported by them,
this case comes within the general rule that the judgment of a court
having jurisdiction of the offence charged and of the party charged with
its commission is not open to collateral attack; and it is held that the
District Court could not have done otherwise than deny the writ, and its
order in that respect is affirmed, and the mandate ordered to issue at
once.

JOHN Andersen was indicted in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia at the
November term thereof, A.D. 1897, and, December 23, 1897,
convicted of the murder, on August 6, 1897, on the high seas,
of William Wallace Saunders, mate of the American vessel
Olive Pecker, and sentenced to death. The case was brought
to this court on error and the judgment was affirmed May 9,
1898. 170 U. S. 481. The mandate having gone down, execution of the sentence was fixed for August 26, 1898. On
that day, (H. G. Miller and P. J. Morris assuming to act as
his counsel,) Andersen filed a petition in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, praying for a writ of habeas coiyus, on the ground that he was
held in custody for execution "in violation of the laws and
the Constitution of the United States of America," in that
he had been deprived "of the free exercise of his rights to
be represented by counsel, in accordance with article 6 of the
Amendments of the Constitution of the United States."

ANDERSEN v. TREAT.
Statement of the Case.

The petition stated:
"Your petitioner represents that on the 7th day of November, 1897, he was delivered to the United States marshal for
the Eastern District of Virginia, charged with having committed the crime of murder within the maritime jurisdiction
of the United States of America; that as a prisoner of the
said United States marshal he was confined on the day of his
delivery in the city jail in the city of Norfolk to await his
examination, as provided by law, before the United States
commissioner for the Eastern District of Virginia; that on
that day, viz., the 7th day of November, 1897, while thus
detained in the city jail of the city of Norfolk, he employed
as counsel to represent him one P. J. Morris, an attorney at
law, residing in the city of Norfolk, Virginia.
"Your petitioner further represents that after securing the
services of the said 'Morris, on. the same day the said -Morris
called at the city jail (the place of the detention of your petitioner) and asked permission to see your petitioner to consult
with him as attorney and client. Your petitioner represents
that admission was refused my said attorney, for the reason
that the district attorney of the United States for the Eastern
District of Virginia had instructed-the jailor and others in
charge of your petitioner to allow no one, without exception,
to see your petitioner; whereupon your petitioner represents
that on the 7th day of November, 1897, my said attorney
asked permission, by phone, of the district attorney for the
Eastern District of Virginia, to permit him to visit the said
jail and consult with your petitioner; that said application
was refused, and that on account of the order of the district.
attorney lodged with the jailors and keepers of the prison in
which your petitioner was detained, your petitioner was denied
the right of the assistance of counsel to represent your petitioner.
" Your petitioner further represents that the district attorney
for the Eastern District of Virginia informed your petitioner's
counsel on the night of the 7th of November, 1897, that he
would let him know on the following day whether or not permission would be granted your petitioner's counsel to consult

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

with your petitioner. Your petitioner represents that instead
of informing my said attorney and giving my said attorney
full notice as to the time when your petitioner's preliminary
hearing would be held, and before the United States district
attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia had given my
said attorney permission to consult with me, I was taken in
irons, handcuffed,- to the office of the United States commissioner and examined, without aid or presence of my attorney.
Your petitioner further represents that before the time the
said examination was completed and statements made by me
were finished, my said attorney discovered that said examination was going on without his presence and before any consultation could be held between your petitioner and his said
attorney, and my said attorney thereupon applied to the said
district attorney of the United States and to the Honorable
Robert W. Hughes, late judge for the Eastern District of
Virginia, and was told by them that, as the defence of your
petitioner was inconsistent with the defence of others charged
at the same time with complicity in the destruction of the
vessel, Olive Pecker, that any attorney representing both
prisoners was objectionable, and that the court would not
permit the same attorney to represent both your petitioner
and the-other prisoners, and therefore the court would assign
him an attorney to represent him. Your petitioner therefore
represents that he was deprived of the free exercise of his
rights to be represented by counsel, in accordance with article 6 of the Amendments of the Constitution of the United
States, and that therefore the action of the court in depriving him of the right to select his own counsel the court exceeded its power and jurisdiction, and that therefore the trial
and proceedings therein are null and void, and that the judgment and the sentence of the court are void and in violation
of his constitutional rights, as he will show."
The matter came on for hearing on the petition, together
with an order and certain papers, which were made part of
the proceedings by consent of parties, and were as follows:
1. The order was entered by District Judge Hughes on
December 14, 1897, nunc _pro tunc as of November 8, and

ANDERSEN v. TREAT.
Statement of the Case.

read: "The court having, on the 8th day of November, 1897,
upon its own motion, as well as upon the request of the
accused, John Andersen, assigned George McIntosh, Esq.,
as counsel for the said John Andersen, under and by notice
of sec. 1034 of the Revised" Statutes of the United States, and
it appearing to the court that he has since then performed the
duties of such counsel and has been recognized as such by this
court in all proceedings had herein.
"And it fuither appearing that no entry of said assignment
was made in the minutes of this court for the said 8th day of
November, A.D. 1897, it is hereby ordered that the said assignment be now entered by the clerk of this court as of the said
8th day of November, A.D. 1897."
No indictment bad been found November 8, but the nunc
pro tune order of December 14, referred in its title to five
indictments against Andersen, numbered 234, 235, 236, 239
and 240, two of said indictments being for arson on the high
seas; two of them for the murder of Saunders; and one for
the murder of John W. Whitman.
2. A statement dated at Norfolk, Virginia, November 9,
1897, and signed by P. J. Morris, as counsel for Horsburgh,
Lind, Barrial, Barstad and March, which, referring to the
United States District Attorney, declared:
"Mr. White, in this case, as in all others, has shown me
the utmost consideration. Yesterday morning, when: I went
up to the office of Mr. White, I found he was about to examine the prisoners, and told him that I expected to be employed by them. Mr. White informed me that he had not
himself talked with the men, and that it was imperatively
necessary that he should do so in order to judge which would
be indicted and which might be needed only as witnesses;
that as soon as he had completed that and the men had employed me, they would be at my disposal. I acquiesced in
the propriety of this position. The men were in custody of
the United States marshal and in the United States marshal's
room after this preliminary examination, which I understand
was voluntary on the part of the prisoners, and before it was
4nished I applied to Judge Hughes to give me permission to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

see the men, who were then in the United States marshal's
custody and in his office.

This was done, and five of"the men

then in writing employed me, and I then gave this writing to
Mr. White.
"I desire distinctly to say that in this matter Mr. White
has done nothing which justifies any criticism on my part,
and I have to thank him in this, as in other matters, for
courtesies of a very considerate character."
3. The writing referred to was dated November 8, addressed
to the judge of the United States court at Norfolk, and signed
by Horsburgh, Barstad, March, Barrial and Lind, who thereby
authorized "P. J. Morris to represent us in all the courts of
the United States in any and all cases pending against us and
to be presented against us connected with the charges against
us growing out of the burning of the vessel 0. H. Pecker."
4. A letter addressed to P. J. Morris, attorney at law, dated
at Norfolk, November 7, 1897, signed by Horsburgh, March,
Barstad, Lind and Barrial, stating: "We desire counsel and
request an interview with you, in order to arrange for our
defence of charge now pending in the court of the United
States." This note was endorsed by Judge Hughes, November 8, 1897, as follows: "The prisoners mentioned in this
paper are entitled to be seen at any time and at all times by
their counsel. Mr. P. J. Morris is hereby authorized to see
and confer with these prisoners whenever he or they think
fit."
The District Court denied the writ of habeas corpus prayed
for, and ordered the petition to be dismissed, whereupon an
appeal was allowed petitioner to this court, and a transcript
of the petition, the final order and all other proceedings in
the cause were directed to be forwarded to its clerk. The
final order concluded in these words: "And the court further certifies as a part of this order that although indictment
No. 24:1, under which the petitioner, John Andersen, was tried
and convicted of murder, was not one of the number embraced
in the order of the 14th of December, 1897, assigning said
McIntosh as counsel, that still said McIntosh, under said
orderand pursuant to the assignment of the court, continued

ANDERSEN v. TREAT.
Opinion of the Court.

to represent the said Andersen upon his trial in the Circuit
Court of the United States and upon his appeal in the Supreme Court of the United States on trial of the said indictment No. 241."
Mr. Hugh G. Miller and
'. P. J. Morris for appellant.
.Mr. J. G. Bigelow was on their brief.
Mri. William E. White for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JusTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The rule that the writ of habeas corju8 cannot be made use
of as a writ of. error being firmly established, the contention
of appellant's counsel is that the judgment of the Circuit
Court, the judgment of this court and the action of the Circuit Court in pursuance of our mandate, are wholly void because he was denied "the assistance of counsel for his defence,"
that is, the assistance of counsel of his own selection.
The petition was insufficient in not setting forth the proceedings, or the essential parts thereof, prior to August 26,
1898, on which day it was presented, and it was very properly
conceded on the hearing of this appeal that the record of
Andersen's trial and conviction and of the proceedings on error
was to be treated as part of the record, and it was referred to
by counsel on both sides accordingly. Craemer v. Wa8hington State; 168 U. S. 124, 128.
The record disclosed that on Monday, the 8th of November, 1897, the day after Andersen had been delivered into the
custody of the marshal, George McIntosh, Esq., was assigned
to him as counsel upon his own request and in accordance
with section 1034 of the Revised Statutes; and that Mr.
McIntosh actually represented him from thence onward, contesting every step of the way, until, after having obtained a
writ of error from this court, and argued the cause here, his
petition for a rehearing was denied.
But the petition averred that on November 7 petitioner had

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"employed as council to represent him, one P. J. Morris;"
that on the same day Morris called at the place of detention
and asked permission to see petitioner for consultation, which
was refused; that petitioner's preliminary examination was
had without the aid or presence of his attorney; and that
the district judge and the district attorney told his said
attorney that as petitioner's defence was "inconsistent with
the -defence of others charged at the same time with complicity in the destruction of the vessel Olive Pecker," the court
would not permit the same attorney to represent them all.
The contention seems to be that petitioner was denied, at
any rate in the first instance, the assistance of the attorney he
had selected, and that he did not have his attorney with him
when he told his story November 8; and that, as he was
thereby deprived of fundamental constitutional rights, all subsequent proceedings were void for want of jurisdiction.
The papers introduced before the District Court, by consent, tended to show that Morris had not been employed by
Andersen prior to November 8; that the five members of the
crew other than Andersen authorized Xorris on that day to
represent them; that the district attorney had had no interview with any of the prisoners up to the morning of November 8, which he informed the attorney it was imperatively
necessary in view of future action that he should have, and
then if the prisoners employed him they would be at his
disposal.
Apart from that evidence, however, the record of the trial
showed that examination before the United States commissioner was waived by the accused; that the trial lasted several
days, during which no other counsel applied to the court for
leave to act for Andersen, nor did Andersen request the court
to permit any other counsel to conduct or assist in conducting
his defence; that Andersen admitted that the statement he
.made on November 8 was a voluntary one; that no such
statement was put in evidence; nor was any objection raised
to questions propounded to Andersen when on the stand as
to what he had said on that occasion; nor were witnesses
called to contradict his answers.

ANDERSEN v.. TREALT.
Opinion of the Court.

The record did not show, nor was there any pretence, that
the court was requested to assign Morris as counsel for Andersen and denied the request, and if it were true that the
district judge or district attorney suggested that it would
be objectionable to do so in view of his employment by the
other five members of the crew, even though coupled with
the intimation that the court would decline on that ground
to make such assignment, the fact was not material on this
application.
In Gommonwealtk v. Knapp, 9 Pick. 496, the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts refused to make a desired
assignment because the person designated was not a member
of the bar of that court, and also because "a person of more
legal experience ought to be assigned, who might render aid
to the court .as well as to the prisoner;" but the question
under what circumstances a court, may in a given case decline
to assign particular counsel on the request of the accused,
was not discussed.
In the case of Shibuya Jugiro,140 U. S. 291, 296, the alleged
assignment at Jugiro's trial "of one as his counsel who
(although be may have been an attorney at law) had not
been admitted or qualified to practise as an attorney or
counsellor at law in the courts of New York," was held to
be matter of error and not affecting the jurisdiction of the
trial court.
The general rule is that the judgment of a court having
jurisdiction of the offence charged and of the party charged
with its commission is not open to collateral attack The
exceptions to this rule when* some essential right has been
denied need not be considered, for whether this application
was tested on the petition alone, treating the record as part
thereof, or heard, without objection, as on rule to show cause,
the District Court could not have done otherwise than deny
the writ. In r e Boardman, 169 U. S. 39.
Order ajfirmed. .A-andate to issue at once.

