UNITED STATES v. RANLETT AND STONE.

133

Syllabus.

in regard to the contract, although that decision had been
affirmed, as to that point, by this court. In this decision now
before us it has given no effect to subsequent legislation, and
not having done so, but simply decided a question of local law
regarding its own constitution, the state court has given no
decision which raises a Federal question, and therefore none
that this court can review.
Under all the circumstances I can only see a determination
to take jurisdiction in this case simply because this court, as it
is said, has in cases in which it had jurisdiction decided the
question differently from the decision in this case by the state
court. That ground does not give jurisdiction, and that is the
only ground that does exist:
The writ of error should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

UNITED STATES v. RANLETT AND STONE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 20. Submitted October 11, 1598. -- Declded December 5, 1898.
Section 7 of the act of February 8, 1875, c. 36, 18 Stat. 307, 308, was repealed
by the tariff acts of 1883 and of 1890.
When a later statute is a complete revision of the subject to which the
earlier statute related, and the new legislation was manifestly intended
as a substitute for the former legislation, the prior act must be held to
have been repealed.
When bags are imported, part of Which are returned bags of American
manufacture and part foreign, if the appraiser, after examination, decides that the goods are not as described, his judgment must stand unless
reversed.
Section 2901, Rev. Stat., was intended for the benefit of the Government,
and is not mandatory.
Where merchandise, liable in large part to duty, is entered as exempt therefrom, the collector has the right to assume that the mingling was intentional and with design to evade the revenue laws; and it devolves upon
the importer to show what part of the whole he contends should not be
taxed.
In the light of the rulings of the Treasury Department, and the special cir-

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statemient of the Case.

cumstances of the tase, the court is not disposed to hold that if the proportion of dutiable bags sufficiently appeared or might reasonably have
been ascertained, the Circuit Court could not have adjudged a recovery
of that proportion, or directed a reliquidation.
In view of the testimony, and considering that the statute was not strictly
pursued in the examination (though the court perceives no reason to
doubt the faithfulness of the officials in the discharge of their duties),
and the difficulties in the way of determining the make of the bags disclosed by the evidence, and bearing in mnind that the taxation of so many
of the bags as were of American manufacture operated as a penalty in
spite of the concession that no fraud on the revenue was intended, the
court thinks it unnecessary to remand the cause for another hearing,
and that the ends of justice will be best subserved by directing a decree
for the refunding of one fourth of the duties paid.

R.NL-r and Stone imported at the port of New Orleans,
from Liverpool, England, 2925 bales of grain bags, known'
as cental bags, each bale containing one thousand bags, or
2,925,000 in all, by several vessels, the entries running from
August 14, 1893, to January 15, 1894.
The bags were entered free of duty under paragraph 493 of
the act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 603, asbags of
American manufacture returned to the United States.
That paragraph is as follows:
".Articles the growth, produce and manufacture of the
United States, when returned after having been exported,
without having been advanced in value or improved in condition by any process of manufacture or other means; casks,
barrels, carboys, bags and other vessels of American manufacture exported filled with American products, ,or exported
empty and returned filled with foreign products, including
shooks when returned as barrels or boxes;
.
but proof
of the identity of such articles shall be made, under general
regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury;
and if any such articles are subject to internal tax at the time
of exportation such tax shall be proved to have been paid
b6fore exportation and not refunded: -Provided, That this
paragraph shall not apply to any article upon which an allowance of drawback has been made, the reimportation of which
is hereby prohibited except upon payment of duties equal to
."
the drawbacks allowed.

UNITED STATES v. RANLETT AND STONE.

135

Statement of the Case.

The general regulations prescribed by the Secretary of
the- Treasury under this paragraph contained the following
provisions:
"AwT. 331. Articles of the growth, produce and manufacture of the United States, exported to a foreign country and
returned without having been advanced in value or improved
in condition, by any process of manufacture or other means,
and upon which no drawback or bounty has been allowed, are
entitled to entry free of duty, but this privilege does not extend
to articles exported in bond from a manufacturing warehouse
and afterward returned to this country. The exportation
must be bona .#de and not for the purpose of evading any
revenue law.
"If returned to the port of original exportation, the fact of
regular clearance for a foreign destination must be shown by
the records of the customs,
.
.
and. by the declaration
of the person making the entry. But when the reimportation
is made into a port other than that of original exportation,
there shall be required, in addition to the declaration, a certificate from the collector and the naval officer if any, of the
port, where the exportation was made showing the fact of
exportation from that port.
"ART. 332. To guard against fraud, and to insure identity,
the collector shall r~quire, in addition to proof of clearance,
the production of a statement, certified by the proper officer
of the customs at the foreign port from which the reimportation was made, and authenticated by the consul of the United
States, that such merchandise was imported from the United
States in the condition in which it is returned, and that it has
not been advanced in value or improved in condition by any
process of manufacture or other means."
"RT.
335. Casks, barrels, carboys, bags and vessels of
American manufacture, exported filled with American products, or exported empty and returned filled with foreign
products, including shooks when returned as barrels or boxes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

are free of duties, but in case drawback has been allowed
upon the exportation of any such articles, they shall on importation be subject to a duty equal to the drawback. Proof
of the identity. of such articles must be made, and if any of
them were subject to internal tax-at the time of exportation,
such tax shall be proved to have been paid before exportation
and not refunded, or duty will accrue.
*

*X

*X

*

*

"ART. 336.' Before entry, the following proof shall be required by the collector:
"First. A certificate as follows from the shipper in triplicate, attested by a consul or other proper officer authorized to
take affidavits, as follows:
"I hereby certify, under oath, that, to the best of my
- hereinafter specified, are
knowledge and belief, the I
- or
truly of the manufacture of the United States,2
.
were exported from the United States, filled withr
and that it is intended to reship the same to the port of
on board the
, in the United States,8
-.
I further certify that, to
now lying in the port of
the best of my knowledge and belief, the actual market value
of the articles hereiA named, at this time and in the form in
which the same are to be exported to the United States, is as
follows'

"Sworn to before me, this - day of

,

18-.

"Second. A declaration in the entry by the importer of the
name of the exporting vessel, the date of the ship's manifest,
and the marks and numbers on, the articles for which free
1 ,,
Name'the articles.
2 "If the packages are empty, insert statement of the facts, as 'and were
exported from the United States filled with the produce of that country.'
8 ",If the packages contain foreign merchandise, insert ' filled with' and
a description of the merchandise they contain.
4 ,,This blank is to be filled only when the'merchandise contained in the
packages is subject to a duty ad valorem."

UNITED STATES v. RANLETT AND STONE.

137

Statement of the Case.

entry-is sought. If the exportation was made by railroad,
the way bill may be substituted as evidence for the manifest.
The marks and numbers should be such as to prove beyond
any reasonable doubt the identity of the articles with those
entered on the outward manifest.
"Third. An affidavit by the importer, attached to the
entry, that the articles mentioned therein are to the best
of his knowledge and belief truly and bona flde manufactures of the United States, or were bags exported therefrom
filled with grain."
"-.fth. Verification, after examination, by the appraiser,
with an indorsement stating whether the articles are of
domestic or of foreign manufacture.
"Such bags and other coverings exported to be returned
should, when practicable, be marked or numbered, in order
that they may be identified on their return; and the marks
or numbers should appear .on the shipper's manifest upon
which they are exported."
When the respective shipments arrived in this country free
entry was made by the importer and evidence furnished regarding the right to free entry and the character of the goods.
Samples of the respective invoices were then sent to the appraiser's office and examined as follows:
From one entry of 600 bales, 70 were ordered to the appraiser's store and 18 of that number were opened by him;
Of another entry of 650 bales, 43 were ordered to the store
and 19 were opened;
Of a third entry of 325 bales, 38 were ordered to the store
and 13 were opened;
Of a fourth entry of 850 bales, 85 were ordered to the store
and 16 were opened;
Of a fifth entry of 300 bales, 21 were ordered to the store
and- 14 were opened;
Of a sixth entry of 100 bales, 100 were ordered to the store
and 10 were opened;
And of a seventh entry of 100 bales, 100 were ordered to
the store and 10 were opened.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

The examination of the bales was .made by the appraiser,
assisted by an examiner. The appraiser reported as to each
importation that the bales contained bags of foreign manufacture, subject to duty, and thereupon the collector, by direction of the Treasury Department, at the request of the
impoiters in order to obtain possession of the goods, made
impost entries, assessing duties at the rate of two cents per
pound on the entire consignment, under paragraph 365 of the
act of 1890, 26 Stat. 593, as "bags for grain made of burlaps."
The importers protested against the "decision, liquidation and
rate and amount of duties assessed," on the grounds: That
the bags were entitled to free entry under paragraph 493 of
the free list as bags of American manufacture, exported filled
with American products; that, if not free under that paragraph;, they were entitled to free entry under the provisions
of section 7 of the act. of February 8, 1875, and the regulations for the free entry of bags other than of American
manufacture, prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury
thereunder; and that the goods were not fairly and faithfully
examined by the appraisers; that the assessment of two cents
per pound because the bales- contained a mixture of foreign
-and American bags was incorrect, and that the goods being
all of one value, whether of foreign or American make, did
not come under the provisions of section 2910 of the Revised
Statutes.
The Board of General Appraisers sustained the action of
the collector. General Appraisers' Decisions, No. 2623.
The importers applied for a review of this decision to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Fifth Circuit,
which, without taking any additional testimony, reversed the
decision of the board, and entered a decree that the duties
paid by Ranlett and Stone, namely, two cents per pound on
the several consignments of bags, enumerating them, be refunded; "1that the examination heretofore made of said bales
of bags is void and not in conformity to law or the regulations
of the Treasury Department, and any liquidation of duties
based on said examination is illegal and void, and the liquidation of duties heretofore made be set aside, and the money

UNITED STATES v. RANLETT AND STONE.

139

Opinion of the Court.

received from IRanlett and Stone as duties be refunded as
aforesaid; and the court doth further order and decree that
the collector direct a reexamination of said bales of bags to
be made according to law, and on such reexamination to reliquidate the duties which may be lawfully due thereon."
The United States appealed from the decree to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which certified certain questions to this
court, whereupon a writ of certiorari was issued and the entire
record brought up.
3M'. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt and Mr. TF. J. Hughe8
for appellants.
.M'. Thoma8 J. Semmes and Mr.William A. .Maury for
appellees.
M .CHIEF JusTIOE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

In respect of these importations, it must be assumed that
the bags were not in fact all of American manufacture or substantially so.
The opinion of the General Appraisers stated that "it was
admitted that there were bags of foreign manufacture and of
American manufacture, all indiscriminately mingled together,
no attempt being made on entry or afterwards to separate
from these enormous totals of goods of the same class those
claimed to be relieved from duty accompanied by the ptoof
establishing such indulgence." The examiner testified that
he "in some cases examined every bale of the whole entire
invoice;" that he used his judgment "to try to open sufficient to get at the classification of the goods;" and that
where he opened the bales and examined them he found of
foreign make in general "from seventy-five to eighty per
cent." Indeed we do not understand the importers to deny
that these importations contained foreign made bags.
Under Title 33 of the Revised Statutes a duty was impbsed
on grain bags, except those manufactured in the United

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

States and exported containing American products, declaration having been made of intent to return the same empty.
Rev. Stat. §§ 2504, 2505.
- By section 7 of the act of February 8, 1875, c. 36, 18
Stat. 307, 308, it was provided: "That bags, other than of
American manufacture, in which grain shall have been actually exported from the United States, may be returned
empty to the United States free of duty, under regulations
to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury."
Section 6 of the tariff act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat.
488, 489, provided that on and after July 1, 1883, "the following sections shall constitute and be a substitute for Title
33 of the. Revised Statutes." The provision in regard to
empty returned bags of American manufacture was regnacted
in substance in the free list, but that of section 7 of the act
of 1875 was omitted, and bags, excepting bagging -forcotton,
were made dutiable.
Paragraph 493 of the tariff act of 1890 retained the same
exemption from duty upon returned empty bags of American
manufacture, and was silent in regard to returned empty foreign made bags which were filled when exported.
In view of this legislation, Acting Attorney General Maxwell advised the Secretary of the TreasuryT, July 20, 1893,
that the provision of section 7 of the act of 1875 exempting foreign made grain bags was repealed.. 20 Op. Atty.
Gen. 630. This ruling was followed and approved by the
Treasury Department, August 22, 1893, Syn. T. D' 14,281;
and the same ruling was -made by the Board of General Appraisers, February 3, 1894, in Eent v. United States, G. A.
2448, as it had been in prior decisions; by Judge Lacombe,
in effect;April 21, 1891, in In re Straus, 46 Fed. Rep. 522;
and specifically by Judge Townsend in ifent v. United States'
68 Fed. Rep. 536, June 2,. 1895. The latter case was carried
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and
the decree affirmed, April 7, 1896, 38 U. S. App. 554. The
rule applied was that "when a later statute is a complete
revision of -the subject to which the earlier statute related,
and the new legislation was manifestly intended as a'substi-

UNITED STATES v. I.ANLETT. AND. STOINE.

141

Opinion of the Court.

tute for the former. legislation, the prior act must be held to
have been repealed;" and the opinion of Judge Shipman
leaves nothing to be added in support of the conclusion
reached.
Foreign made bags, then, being dutiable at two cents per
pound under paragraph 365 of the act of October 1, 1890, and
these bales being permeated with bags of foreign manufacture, the appraiser reported all the bags as dutiable and the
collector so assessed them.
But the importers insist that this assessment was illegal
because of the insufficiency or invalidity of the examination;.
or of the absence of a statute specifically applicable; or because it was not confined to foreign made bags..
Paragraph 493 required proof of the identity of articles
entered as exempt thereunder, and this was not only repeated
in the regulations, but Article 336 required "verification, after
examination, by the appraiser, with an indorsement stating
whether the articles are of d6mestic or foreign manufacture."
By section 2 of 'the Customs Administrative Act of June 10,
1890, o. 407, all invoices must contain a correct description of
the merchandise, signed by the manufacturer or by the person
owning or shipping the same, or by his duly authorized agent,
which under section 5 might be adopted by the domestic consignee or owner, who by section 9 was made liable for the
employment or use of any fraudulent or false invoice or statement by means whereof the United States may be deprived
of lawful duties. Under section 10 it was the duty of the
appraiser to ascertain, estimate and appraise the actual market
value and wholesale price of merchandise imported, and the.
number of yards, parcels and quantities, And evidently this
ascertainment involves. character and quality as well as value,
since the statement, invoice or entry must be true in respect
of the charact.er of the goods as well as of their value.
26 Stat. 131, 136.
On the question of identity, then (which under the law includes the question of country of manufacture), the production
of the papers required by the regulations are not conclusive
proof, and if the, appraiser, after actual examination, had,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

decides that the goods are not as described, but are such, in
fact, as to fall within a different classification, and so reports
to the collector, his judgment must stand unless reversed on
reappraisement, or by the Board of General Appraisers on
protest filed.
As to these bags, the examiner reported to the appraiser his
finding of a very large, percentage of foreign made bags in
the shipments, and the appraiser reported that he found the
shipments to contain bags of foreign manufacture and that
the importations were dutiable at two cents per pound under
paragraph 365.
If the importers were not satisfied with the examination
made, and .objected to the competency of the examiner and
appraiser, they should have applied for a reexamination; but
they did not do this, nor did they offer evidence before the
Board of General Appraisers tending to establish an objection
on that ground.
But it is said that the appraisement was invalid because
the examination was not in accordance with § 2901 of the
:Revised Statutes. That section, however, was intended for
the benefit of the Government, and we have held that it is
not mandatory, and that official acts are not invalidated for
want of strict compliance therewith. Erhardt v. Schroeder,
155 U. S. 124, 125 ; Origet v. Heden, 155 U. S. 228.
The section reads thtis:
"The collector shall designate on the invoice at least one
package of every invoice, and one package at least of every
ten packages of merchandise, and a greater number should
he or either of the appraisers deem it necessary, imported
into such port, to be opened, examined and appraised, and
shall order the package so designated to the public stores for
examination; and if any package be found by the appraisers
to contain any article not specified in the invoice, and they
or a majority of them shall be of opinion that such article
was omitted in the invoice with fraudulent intent on the
part of the shipper, owner or agent, the contents of the
entire package in which the article may be, shall be liable
to seizure and forfeiture on conviction thereof before any

UNITED STATES v. BANIETT AND STONE.

143

Opinion of the Court.

court of competent jurisdiction ; but if the appraisers shall.
be of opinion that no such fraudulent intent existed, then
the value of such article shall be added to the entry, and
the duties thereon paid accordingly, and the same shall be
delivered to the importer, agent or consignee. Such forfeiture may, however, be remitted by the Secretary of the Treasury on the production of evidence satisfactory to him that no
fraud was intended."
Assuming that fraudulent intent was lacking, these bags
were not held for forfeiture, but the collector, in effect, added
them all to the entries, leaving it to the importers to prefer
such claim to exemption as they might consider they were
entitled to.
Section 2901 was brought forward from section 32 of the
act of March 2, 1861, c. 68, 12 Stat. 197, and on December 28,
1868, Mr. Secretary McCulloch made the followihig ruling.
At that time the law imposed a duty of twelve cents per
pound on all woollen rags, and admitted free rags composed of
cotton and linen and intended for the manufacture of paper,
and twenty-one bales of rags brought into the country from
Canada and containing at least forty per cent of woollen rags,
though imported as containing rags for the manufacture of
paper, had been seized. The matter being referred to the
Secretary, he ruled, in a letter addressed to the Collector of
Customs at Rochester, as follows: " If you are satisfied that
there was no intention on the part of the importers to conceal
the dutiable rags by mingling them with others free of duty,
you will not hold them for condemnation, but will allow the
parties to separate such as are dutiable from such as are not
so, and make entry accordingly, paying the proper duty on
the former class. These instructions are to be considered as
applicable only to such bales as contain so large a proportion
of woollen rags as to render it worth while to collect a duty.
Forty per cent of woollen rags is, however, much too large a
percentage to be allowed entry as free goods."
Again, in July, 1890, it was held by the Treasury Department that where cargoes of anthracite and bituminous coal
were imported, so mixed as to render it impracticable. to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

separate the-free from the dutiable coal for the purpose of
the accurate weighing of each kind, the whole cargo should
be treated as dutiable. T. D. 10,098, Syn. 1890.
The general, policy of the law is indicated in the statutory
requirements that where goods of different qualities or different values are mingled, or are composed of material of different values, the highest rate of duty shall be imposed, as in
the familiar instances of the classification of articles composed
of two or more materials, at the rate of duty charged on the
component material of chief value; in section 2911 of the
Revised Statutes, that whenever articles composed wholly, or
in part, of wool or cotton, of similar kind, but different quality,
are found in the same package, 'harged at an average price,
the appraisers shall adopt the value of the best article as the
average value; in section 2912, that when bales of wool of
different qualities are embraced in the same invoice at the
saie prices whereby the average price is reduced more than
-ten per centum below the value of the bale of the best quality, the value of the whole shall be appraised according to
the value of the bale of,the best qdality, and that no bale,
bag or package shall be liable to a less rate of duty in consequence of being invoiced with wool of lower value; and in
section 2910, that: "When merchandise of the same material
or description, but of different values, is invoiced at an average
price, and not otherwise provided for, the duty shall be assessed
upon the whole invoice at the rate to whih the highest
valued goods in such invoice are subject."
Numerous 'provisions exist in the statutes and regulations
designed to protect the Public Treasury from the bringing
in of goods at a less rate of duty than they ought to pay
under cover of association with goods properly subject to the
lower amount; and the protection intended to be.secured
ought, on principle, equally to be accorded in respect of dutiable goods invoiced indiscriminately with free goods.
Of these seven importations, according to the importers, all
the bales in two of them, and ten per cent of those in three
of them, were ordered to the appraiser's store, while as to
two of them, the nuinber taken for examination fell a little

UNITED STATES v. RA1LLETT AND STONE.

145

Opinion of the Court.

short of ten per cent; and of all these bales, one hundred
were opened. It appeared also that all the merchandise
covered by all the invoices was of the same character and
description. Since the bales that were opened were found
to contain foreign made bags in large numbers in importations claimed to consist solely of American made bags, it is
not easily seen how the examination of a larger nubiber of
bales would have affected the result arrived at by the appraiser.
And, as before observed, if the importers believed that they
had sustained injury because more bales were not opehed, they
should have applied for a refxamination, and they might have
produced evidence before the Board of General Appraisers to
maintain their claim that the bags were American made notwithstanding the return of the examiner and the report of
the appraiser, or they might have protested on the ground
that the duty should have been levied only on part thereof,
and tendered evidence to support that contention.
If they had furnished evidence of the number of bags of
domestic manufacture and the number of bags" of foreign
manufacture, or had sought a reexamination with the view
to an adjustment by proportion, and that had been had, then
the collector might have assessed the foreign, bags.so ascertained and admitted the American bags free from duty. But
it was for the importers and not for the Government to make
the separation on which such a claim for relief would have
rested, or, at least, to have invoked the rule of proportion
based on a redxanination.
The importers contended that they had complied with the
law and the Treasury regulations by furnishing certain statements of the shippers as to the origin of the goods, and certain certificates as to their exportation filled with wheat, and
that this primafacieevidence of the bags being of the manufacture of this country had not been disproved. But if it
were admitted that these papers made a primafacieshowing,
that showing was overturned when it appeared that foreign
made bags in large numbers made up the importations.
The remedies provided by the act of June 10, 1890, furnish
the equivalent for the action against the collector which was
VOL. CLX X-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
, Opinion of the Court.

originally the remedy for an illegal exaction of duties, United
States v. Passavant, 169 U. S. 16; Schoenfeld v. Hendrickg,
152 U.-S. 691; and as in that action, so in this proceeding, the
importer-must establish the illegality in order to recover back
duties paid under protest; and this, in a case like the present,
involves, in substantiating that contention, the making proof
of the identity of the merchandise. _Earn8haw v. Cadwalader,
145 U. S. 247, 262; Erhardtv. Sehroeder, 155 U. S. 124.
Moreover, where merchandise liable in large part to duty
is entered as exempt therefrom, the collector has the right to
assume that the mingling was intentional and with design to
evade the reveiue laws; and hence even where the confusion
of goods is accidental or not fraudulent in fact, and forfeiture
is not incurred, it yet devolves on the importer to show what
part of the whole he contends should not be taxed.
These importers, however, planted themselves on the ground
that all these bags were exempt under the act of 1875 ; or, if
not, that the assessment was wholly void for insufficient examination; or illegal except as to foreign made bags, which
it devolved upon the Government to segregate from the
common mass..
In the case of Kent, already referred to, -it was decided by
the Board of General Appraisers, February 3, 1894 (G. A.
2448), that the act of February 8, 1875, was not in force, and
a reliquidation was ordered for a classification according to
the proportion of foreign and American bags found in two
bales which by agreement had been examined as representative bales, bag by bag. On the secbnd of May, 1894 (G. A.
2610), the Board of General Appraisers held, in the matter of
Balfour, Guthrie & Company, that inasmuch as bags made of
burlaps were dutiable, except such as are described in paragraph 493, it was the duty of all persons, bringing in goods
claimed to be free out of a class otherwise dutiable, to prove
affirmatively the facts constituting the exemption, and that
they should separate and designate such merchandise accompanied by the evidence required by law. 'This decision was
reaffirmed May 5, 1894 (G. A. 2613), and again in the case
before us.

UNITED STATES v. RANLETT AND STONE.

147

Opinion of the Court.

On the 27th of April, 1894, which was after this case had
been carried before the Board of General Appraisers and the
evidence had been taken, the Treasury Department (T. D.
14,912) held that in the absence of any provision of law to
prevent the importation of both free and dutiable second
hand bags baled togeth'er, collectors might pursue the course
of examining the designated number of packages, making such
investigation of their contents as would reveal the character
of the bags contained therein, and then adopt the finding if
the appraisers as the basis of the assessment of duty' on bales
not examined. And since then it has been determined that
importers of bags must have bags of foreign and bags of
domestic origin packed separately. T. D. 18,425.
Notwithstanding the positions taken by the importers are,
as we have seen, untenable, we are not disposed to hold, in
the light of these rulings of the Department and the special
circumstances of the case,, that, if the proportion of dutiable
bags sufficiently appeared or might reasonably have been
ascertained, the Circuit Court could not have adjudged a
recovery in that proportion, or directed a reliquidation.
A 'regxamination de novo is now impracticable, but it
appears to us that the evidence taken by the Board affords
an adequate basis for a conclusion. The examiner testified
that he found "along about 80 to 86 per cent foreign
make;" "in general from seventy-five to eighty per cent;"
and that, in his judgment, there was no invoice "that would
show over twenty-five per cent of American bags; ' yet he
also said that he could not give specific details of each invoice,
and that he "supposed if seventy-five per cent of the bags in
the bale were of foreign manufacture, it carried the whole
of them."
In view of this testimony, and considering that the statute
was not strictly pursued in the examination (though we perceive no reason to doubt the faithfulness of the officials in the
discharge of their duties), and the difficulties in the way of
determining the make of the bags disclosed by the evidence,
and bearing in mind that the taxation of so many of the bags
as were of American manufacture operated as a penalty in

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

spite of the concession that no fraud on the revenue was
intended, we think it unnecessary to remand the cause for
another heai'ing, and that the ends of justicewill be best subserved by directing a decree for the refunding of one fourth
of the duties paid.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded with a direction to
enter such a decree.

HIARKRADER v. WADLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 41.

Argued October 1, 1898. -Decided

December 5, 1898.

The facts in the record show that there is no merit in the several objections
to the jurisdiction of this court taken by the appellee in this case.
Two propositions have been so firmly established by frequent decisions of
this court as to require only to be stated: (1) When a state court has
entered upon the trial of a criminal case, under a statute not repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, or to any law or treaty thereof,
and where the state court has jurisdiction of the offence and of the
accused, no mere error in the conduct of the trial can be made the basis
of jurisdiction in a court of the United States to review the proceedings
upon a writ of habeas corpus: (2) When a state court and a court of
the United States may each take jurisdiction of a matter, the tribunal
where jurisdiction first attaches holds it, to the exclusion of the other,
until its duty is fully performed and the jurisdiction involved is exhausted; and this rule applies alike in both civil and criminal cases.
A court of equity, although having jurisdiction over person and property
in a case pending before it, is not thereby vested with jurisdiction over
crimes committed in dealing with such property by a.party before the
civil suit was brought, and cannot restrain by injunction proceedings
regularly brought in a criminal court having jurisdiction of the crime
and of the accused.
A Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in equity in the administration
of civil remedies, has no jurisdiction to stay by injunction proceedings
pending in a state court in the name of a State to enforce the criminal
laws of such State.

IN the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Virginia, one I. G. Wadley filed a petition, signed

