OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

McQUADE v. TRENTON.
ERROR TO TAE COURT OF ERRORS AND

APPEALS OF TRE STATE

OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 125. Argued January 12, 1899.-Decided January 80, 1899.

A decision by a state court of a Federal question will not sustain the jurisdiction of this court if another question, not Federal, was also raised and
decided against the plaintiff in error, and the decision thereof is sufficient, notwithstanding the Federal question, to sustain the judgment;
and much more is this the case where no Federal question is shown to
have been decided, and the case might have been, as this case probably
was, disposed of upon non-Federal grounds.

Tais was a bill in equity filed in the Court of Chancery of the
State of N~ew Jersey by the inhabitants of the city of Trenton
against John McQuade, to enjoin him from interfering with the
relaying of a certain pavement, and the resetting of the curb
and gutter in front of his premises, in the city of Trenton.
The bill averred, in substance, that a change of grade on
the street in front of the premises of the defendant was made
by a city ordinance, at the special request of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Compaiy, upon an agreement by the latter to make
the changes, to carry off all the surface water diverted or
changed by the alteration, and to indemnify the city; but
that the defendant MeQuade, who owned a lot upon the street
in question, not only notified the workmen to desist from
changing the grade, but forcibly interfered with their work
by throwing hot and cold water on the men engaged in such
work, and thus tried to prevent its being carried on; and that
after the pavement had been relaid in front of his property,
he tore it up and rendered it nearly impassable for pedestrians
by digging a hole in the sidewalk in front of his premises and
keeping the same filled with water.
In his answer, defendant denied that the railroad company
had provided means to carry off the surface water, and alleged that the provisions made were utterly inadeqiiate, and
that his property had been damaged by the overflow of water

McQUADE v. TRENTOIN.
Statement of the Case.

into his cellar. Ile further averred that the change of grade
authorized by the city ordinance was not a proper change of
grade, but that the alteration related to the construction of
approaches to an elevated bridge, and was a matter over
which the common council could not exercise any legal authority whatsoever; that by the attempted alteration of the
grades, the surface water, instead of passing through the
street, was caused to accumulate immediately in front of the
defendant's property, and was likely to overflow the sidewalk
and into the defendant's cellar; that if the sidewalk in front
of defendant's property were raised to the grade mentioned in
the ordinance, the cellar windows of his house would be practically closed up and his free access to the street greatly impaired; that the alteration- of the grade was a work carried on
at the expense of and for the sole benefit of the railroad company; that such company had no authority under the law to
do the work and thereby damage defendant's property without first making compensation for the damage he -would sustain by reason of such work, and that he had a right to prevent
the completion of the work until he should have received full
compensation for all damages he would sustain by such work,
and hence that complainants were not entitled to the relief
prayed for. Further answering, he insisted that under the
constitution of the State he had a right to free access to the
street from his property and to the free admission of light and
air; and that no alteration in the grade of the street could be
lawfully made until a proper method of procedure should have
been prescribed by the legislature for the exercise of the power
of eminent domain, "whereby this defendant may receive
proper and adequate compensation for the damage that will
result to him by said alteration of grades and exclusion of
light.and air."
The case was heard upon the pleadings and proofs, and a
decree rendered that the defendant be perpetually enjoined
from interfering with the completion of the sidewalk and
curbing, and from removing or interfering with the pavement,
sidewalk or curbing after -the same shall have been completed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

In his opinion the Vice Chancellor put the case' upon the
grounds that the defendant had no right to take the law into
his own: hands and bid defiance to the city authorities; that
the city being liable for damages sustained, because of the
want of repaired streets, and having undertaken to repair
them according to the grade which had been prescribed, the
court was justified in enjoining defendant from any interference; that the only question at issue was one with respect to
the damages to which AIcQuade was entitled; .that he might
have ascertained these before the city or railroad company
took any steps, but that he allowed the company to go on
and make all. the changes necessary without taking direct
proceedings to compel them to ascertain the damages and
compensate him, and that .he has still an ample remedy for
a redress of his grievances without interfering with the right
of the public to the use of the street in front of his dwelling.
From this decree McQuade appealed to the Court of Errors
and Appeals upon the ground that under such decree the coinplainants were permitted to take and damage his property for
public use without compensation, because no procedure for
taking and injuring his property in the manner set forth had
been prescribed by the legislature, and "because the decree is
in sundry other respects contrary to the Constitution of the
United States and to the law of the land." The petition of
appeal was dismissed by the Court of Errors and Appeals and
the case remanded for an execution of the decree. No written
opinion was delivered.
Mr. David .oClure for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
1R. JusTioE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The principal contention of the plaintiff in error (the defendant below) is that, as he had never been compensated in.

McQUADE v. TRENTON.
Opinion of the Court.

damages for the injury to his property by altering the grade
of the street in front of his lot, he had a right to abate the
nuisance caused by the proposed changes, and that in the refusal of the state court to recognize this principle he had been
deprived of his property without due process of law within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution. But no such question was raised in the pleadings, unless the allegation of the answer that the plaintiffs
bad no right to make the alterations in question without first
compensating defendant for his damages, be treated as equivalent to an allegation that his property had been taken without
due process of law. The right of the defendant to damages
was, however, assumed in the opinion of the Vice Chancellor,
who disposed of the answer by saying that the defendant had
mistaken his remedy, and must resort to another proceeding
against the city for his damages. This was beyond all doubt
a ruling broad enough to support the decree regardless of any
Federal question that possibly might have been raised from
the allegation of the answer. In his petition for an appeal
defendant repeated his allegation that his property had been
damaged without compensation, and averred generally that
the decree was contrary to the Constitution of the United
States, but made no specific allegation of any conflict therewith. As the Court of Errors and Appeals delivered no opinion, it is impossible to state definitely upon what ground the
decree of the Vice Chancellor was affirmed. The presumption is that it was satisfied with the opinion of the court below,
and affirmed the decree for reasons stated in the opinion of the
Vice Chancellor; but however this may be, it is quite evident
that a Federal question was not necessarily involved in the
case, and hence that this court has no jurisdiction. .Kaukauna
Water Power Co. v. Green Bay &c. Canal Co., 142 IT S. 254;
Chicago Life eIn.
Co. v. Needles, 113 U. S. 574; -EurekaLake
&c. Canal Co. v. Yuba County, 116 U. S. 410.
We have repeatedly held that even the decision by the state
court of a Federal question will not sustain the jurisdiction of
this court, if another question not Federal were also raised and
decided against the plaintiff in error, and the decision thereof

640

OCTOBER TERM/t, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

be sufficient, notwithstanding the Federal question, to sustain
the judgment. Much more is this the case where no Federal
question is shown to have been decided, and the case might
have been, and probably was, disposed of upon non-Federal
grounds. Harrisonv. -Morton,171 U. S. 38; Bacon v. Texas,
163 U. S. 207, and cases cited.
The writ of error in this case must therefore be
Dismimsed.

