OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

CHAPPELL

CHEMICAL

AND FERTILIZER COM-

PANY v.. SULPHUR MINES COMPANY (No. 3).
ERROR TO THE CO"T .OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF M1ARYLAD.
Argued December 16, 1898.-Decded January 9,1899.

The claim made in the court below that the provision in tie constitution of
Maryland which abridged the i'ight of trial by jury in the courts of the
city of Baltimore without making a similar provision for the counties of
the State denied to litigants of the city the equal protection of the laws,
is not tenable.
The record does not contain the petition for the removal of this case from
the state court to the Circuit Court of the United States, nor disclose
the grounds on 'which it was founded, and this court does not pass
-upon the question whetaer the state court lost jurisdiction by reason
of it.

THis cause was argued with Nos. 91 and 92, preceding it.
The case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Thomas 0. 0Itappell for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.James- XA.Ambler and .Mr. RandolpA Barton for defendant in error. .Mr. Skipwil&
Wilmer, and Xib'. Rando1p
Bdrton, Jr., were on their brief.
MR. JUsTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law brought by plaintiff in error against
defendant in error and another, for causes growing out of the.
matters sued on in No. 92. Here, as in No. 92, there was a
series of motions which we do not think it is necessary to
notice.
The case, on the appeal of plaintiff in error, reached and,
was passed on by the Court of Appeals of the State, and to its
judgment affirming that of the lower court this writ of error
is directed.
The judgment must be affirmed.
Claims under the Constitution of the United States were set

WATER POWER CO., v. STREET RAILWAY CO.

475

Syllabus.

up in several of the motions and denied by the court. One
claim. was that the constitution of Maryland abridged the
right of trial by jury in the courts of Baltimore city iithout
making a similar provision for the counties of the State, and
that this denies to litigants of the city the equal protection of
the laws. This is not tenable. Xi8souri v. LewiJ, 101 U. S.
22; Rayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68.
The other claim was that the state courts lost jurisdiction
by reason of the pendency of a petition filed under section 641,
Revised Statutes, to remove the case to the United States Circuit Court. The petition for removal is not in the record, and
we only know that it was filed by reason of the recital in other
motions and its notice in the opinion of the Court of Appeals,
and the grounds of it do not appear in any part of the record.
In all other matters the judgment of the Court of Appeals
depends on questions of state piactice and state laws.

Judgment affirmed.

COLUMBIA WATER POWER COMPANY v. COLUMBIA ELECTRIC STREET RAILWAY LIGHT AND

POWER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 67. Argued December 6, 7, 1898.-Decided January 9, 1899.

Reading the complaint; and the answer in this case together, the question
whether the contract of the plaintiff was impaired by subsequent state
action appears on the face of the pleadings, and this court has jurisdiction to hear and determine the case.
Under Rev. Stat. ยง 709 there are three classes of cases in which the final
decree of a state court may be examined here: (1) where is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty, or statute of, or authority exercised
under, the United States, and the decision is against their validity; (2)
where Is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority
exercised under, any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to
the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, and the decision
is in favor of their validity; (3) where any title, right, privilege or ira-

