PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 493
Syllabus.

plant; and that no jury having been demanded, the court
must assume that the Circuit Judge decided this question
properly; and even if there were error on his part in the
finding of fact, it was not the subject of review by the Suprene Court in a law case. It needs no argument to show
that neither of these rulings involved a, Federal question.
Whether plaintiff had a legal title to the lands was purely a
local issue, and 'whether the erection of a steam plant by the
defendant was an incident of its contract with the state penitentiary is, for the reason stated by the Supreme Court, not
reviewable here.
In addition to this, however, the deed through which the
State and the plaintiff derived their title is not in evidence
before us. The answer admitted that the State (lid acquire a
strip of land lying within the boundaries described in the bill,
but denied that the buildings erected by the defendant "at
any point touched upon said strip of land." The State appeared to have derived title from one Rawls, whose deed was
filed in the state court, but does not appear in the record
before us, and the Supreme Court of the State found that it
could not review the finding of the court below to the effect
that the plaintiff was the owner in fee of the land.
The decree of the Supreme Court of South Carolina is
therefore

Affirmed.

PITTSBURGH, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO AND ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. LONG ISLAND
LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
:ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 16. Argued April 11, 12, 1S9S. -Decided

January 9, 1899.

In view of the statute giving this court authority to reexamine tfie final
judgment of the highest court of a State, denying a right specially set
up or claimed under an authority exercised under the United States, this
court has jurisdiction to inquire whether due effect was accorded to the

:OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of'the. Court.
'-forecldsure proceedings in the Circuit Courts of the United States, under
which the plaintiff in error claims title to the lands and property in
question in this suit.
Under the circumstances stated in the finding of facts, Lynde acquired a
good title (as between himself and the mortgagor company and the
companies Which aucceeded it by consolidation,) to the thirty-six bonds
purchased by.him, as well as the rightto claim the benefit of the mortgage executed. to Parkhurst.
The state court having adjudged that there was no rule of law arising out
of the public policy of the State, as manifested by state legislation, that
required it to deny to the holders of those bonds the rights and privileges
pertaining to commercial paper, purchased in good faith, in the ordinary
course of business; and in view of the fact that the lien attending the
thirty-six bonds purchased by Lynde did not arise after the institution
of the foreclosure suits, but had its origin in the execution and delivery
of the-Parkhurst mortgage and the authentication by the trustee of the
bonds named in it; and in view of the further fact that the trustee in the
prior mortgalge was not made a party to the foreclosure suits, and was
not.bound by che decree; under the well settled rule that a sale of real
estate under judicial proceedings concludes no one who Is not, in some
form, a party to such proceedings, this court holdt, that the pendency
of the foreclosure suits did not interfere with the negotiation or transfer of the bonds secured by the prior Parkhurst mortgage; that the de- cree In those suits did not impair in any degree the lien created by that
mortgage; that the purchase of the bonds by Lynde could not be regarded as hostile to the possession taken of the property embraced by the
Roosevelt mortgage for the purpose 6f selling itin satisfaction of the debts
secured thereby; and that the state court did not fail to give due effect
to the several decrees in the Circuit'Courts in the Roosevelt foreclosure
suits, when it held that those decrees did not prevent the defendant in
error from claiming the benefit of the lien created by the mortgage to
Parkhurst to secure the payment of the bonds purchased by Lynde.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

I

-Mr. Charles . Burr and 21r. lawrence -Waxwell, Jr., for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. E. .W. Kittredge and If'.
in error.

Joseph Wilby for defendant

MR.- JUSTICE HTARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error bring.s up for review a final judgment of
the Supreme Court of Ohio affirming a judgment of the Circuit Court of Franklin County; in that State.

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 495
Opinion of the Court.

The general question presented for determination is whether
certain railroad property may be sold in satisfiction of a
judgment obtained in 1891 by Charles R. tynde in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Ohio for the amount of 36 coupon bonds, part of 1000 bonds
issued by the Columbus and Indianapolis Central Railway
Company, an Ohio corporation, in the year 1864.
The bonds were secured by a deed of trust, and were made
payable to William D. Thompson or bearer, on the 1st day of
November, 1904, each bond reciting, among other things, that
it was one of an issue of not exceeding $1,000,000, and had a
special lien on all of the railway property, equipments and
franchises of the company, as mentioned in the above deed of
trust, subject to prior mortgage liens of $3,200,000; that it
should "be transferable by delivery, or it may be registered
as to its ownership on a registry to be kept by the company,
and being so registeted, it shall then be transferable only on
the books of the company until released from such registry on
said books by its owner;" also, that it "shall .not become obligatory until it shall have been authenticated by a certificate
annexed to it, duly signed by the trustee."
To each bond was attached this certificate: "I hereby certify that this bond is one of the series of bonds described in
and secured by the deed of trust or mortgage above menParkhurst, Trustee."
tioned. -A.
The property and rights covered by the above deed of trust,
and which were ordered to be sold by the decree in this case
if the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company did not, by a named day, pay the amount found due to
the plaintiff, was a line of railroad extending from Columbus,
Ohio, to Indianapolis, Indiana, including a branch from Covington to Union, together with the franchises, equipment,
property, tolls and interests appertaining thereto.
The case made by the record is set forth in an extended
finding of facts covering sixteen pages. of the present transcript. Many of the facts so found are not necessary to be
here stated. Those which bear more or less upon the present
inquiry may be thus summarized:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Tho Columbus and .Indianapolis Cen'tral Railway Company
prepared, signed and sealed the 1000 bonds referred to, (paft
of which were the 36 bonds held by Lynde,) and to secure the
same executed and delivered the mortgage or deed of trust to
Archibald Parkhurst, as trustee.
The above deed recited the consolidation of the Columbus
and Indianapolis Railroad Company and the Indiana Central
Railway under the name of the Columbus and Indianapolis
Central Railway Company, the consolidated company becoming liable for and assuming all the just debts and liabilities of
the respective constituent companies; that, for certain purposes,
a new series of bonds, 1000 in number, and each for $1000,
should be issued, dated November 1, 1861, to be secured by a
deed of conveyance covering the mortgagor company's road,
its appurtenances, franchises, equipments, property, tolls, income and interest, to a trustee to secure the -payment of said
bonds and interest warrants. Such a deed was made, and conveyed to A. Parkhurst, trustee, for the "purpose of assuring
the punctual payment of the said 1000 bonds and each of them
to each and every person who may become the holder of the
same or any of them," the mortgagor company's entire railroad from Columbus to Indianapolis, including the branch
from Covington to Union, its franchises, etc., in trust to secu-re
the bonds about to be issued by it. The deed contained all
the provisions usually found in such instruments.
Parkhurst accepted the trust, and the mortgage or deed of
trust was duly recorded in Ohio and Indiana.
Shortly after the signing and sealing of the 1000 bonds they
were all duly certified by the trustee in the form above stated.
Prior to January 1, 1867, of the 1000 bonds 790 had been
duly issued in exc ange for a like number and amount of the
existing second and third mortgage bonds of the Columbus
and Indianapolis Railroad Company as provided in said mortgage, and 31 of said bonds had been duly issued and sold by
the railway company. The highest serial number of the 821
bonds so exchanged and sold was No. 833. The remaining 179
of the 1000 bonds, including the 36 bonds described in the petition, having been delivered prior to 1870 by the trustee, Park-

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN -& TRUST CO. 497
Opinion of the Court

burst, to Benjamin E. Smith, as president of the company,
remained in the latter's possession as president, and the companies into which the same was successively consolidated as
hereinafter set forth, until the months of November and December, A.D. 1875, and the happening in those months of the
events to be presently stated.
On or about the 11th day of September, 1867, the Columbus
and Indianapolis Central Railway Company, which made the
above mortgage of 1864, was consolidated with the Union and
Logansport Railroad Company and the Toledo, L6gansport
and Burlington Railroad Company, and became the Columbus
and Indiana Central Railway Company; and on or about the
12th day of, February, 1868, the latter company and the Chicago and Great Eastern Railroad Company were consolidated
and became the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company, one of the defendants in this action.
No authority or consent was thereafter given by the board
of 'directors of the -Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central
Railway Company for the issue or sale of the above 179 bonds
or any of them.
The Columbus, Chicago and Indiana-Central Railway Com-'
pany on or about the 20th day of February made and executed
its 15,000 bonds of that date, each for the sum of $1000, bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum; and in
order to secure their payment executed and delivered its mortgage or deed of trust of that date to James A. Roosevelt and
William R. Fosdick, trustees, conveying to them all its property -such. conveyance including the property formerly be:
longing to the Columbus and Indianapolis Central Railway
Company that had been previously conveyed to Parkhurst,
trustee. That mortgage was recorded in the States of Ohio,
Indiana and Illinois immediately after its execution.
Afterwards, and before Roosevelt and Fosdick, trustees, began the foreclosure suit hereinafter mentioned, the Columbus,
Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company issued and
sold of the 15,000 bonds so secured, bonds to the amount of
$10,428,000 or more.
On or about the 15th day of December, A.D. 1868, the
VOL. cLxx=-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the-CoUrt.

Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company
made and executed its 5000 bonds each for the sum of $1000,
of that date and due upon the 1st day of Febuary, A.D. 1909,
with interest at seven per cent per annum, and for the purpose of securing their payment executed and delivered its
second mortgage or deed of trust to Frederick R. Fowler and
Joseph T. Thomas, trustees, conveying to them all its property
including the property described in the petition; which mortgage was immediately thereafter duly recorded in Ohio, Indiana and Illinois.
It was set forth in the latter "nstrument that the mortgagor,
in addition to $15,000,000 of first mortgage bonds, was then indebted for outstanding bonds as follows, to wit Second mort-,
gage bonds of the Columbus and Indianapolis Central Railway Company, $821,000; income bonds of the Columbus and
Indiana Central Railway Company, $1,243,000, and Chicago
and Great Eastern Railway Company construction and. equipmerit bonds,. $400,000; total, $2,464,000;, and that it was
further indebted in other liabilities in the estimated sum of
$2,500,000. It was provided in the Fowler-Thomas mortgage
that of the issue of $5,000,000 of bonds, the sum of $2,500,000,
beingp bonds numbered 2501 to 5000 inclusive, should be set
aside'and used only in exchange for and to satisfy. the above
$2,464,000 of bonds.
The 821 secondrmortgage bonds of the Columbus and Indian-.
apolis .Central Railway Company referred to in said mortgage*
were part of the bonds secured by the mortgage to Parkhurst, trustee.
On or about the 22d day of January, 1869, the Columbus,
Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company leased to the
Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway Company its entire railroad and property, ificluding the railroad and property
here in question, for the term of ninety-nine years from the
1st day of February, A.D. 1869, renewable forever. And
on or about the 1st day of February, 1869, possession of the
leased railroad and property was delivered to the Pittsburgh,. Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway Company, which
continued to hold possession thereof and to operate the same

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v.- LOAN & TRUST CO. 499
Opinion of the Court.

as lessee till after the sale to which reference will be presently
made.
It was provided in that lease that no bonds beyond the
$15,000,000 of first mortgage bonds, secured by the mortgage
to Roosevelt and Fosdick, and the $5,000,000 of second mortgage bonds, secured by the mortgage to Fowler and Thomas,
and the said $2,000,000 of income bonds, should be issued by
the lessor company without, the consent of the board of directors of the respective parties to the lease. This lease was duly
recorded in the States of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois on or about
the 29th day of May, 1873.
On the first and second days of February, 1875, Roosevelt
and Fosdick commenced their actions concurrently in the Circuit Courts of the United States for the Southern District of
Ohio, the District of Indiana and the Northern District of
Illinois for the foreclosure of the mortgage made to them as
trustees, and for other purposes, "but," the finding states,
"not affecting the Parkhurst mortgage aforesaid or the bonds
thereby secured."
In those actions William L. Scott appeared and filed a crossbill in October, 1881, claiming to be the-owner of certain bonds
secured by the mortgage to Roosevelt and Fosdick, and praying, among other things, for its foreclosure. But he asked no
relief against the Parkhurst mortgage or the bonds secured
thereby. Prior to the beginning of the foreclosure suit
Thomas resigned his trust under the mortgage made to Fowler and himself, and thereafter that trust was administered by
Fowler alone.
In said actions the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central
R ilway Company, Fowler and others were made parties defendant, and were duly served with process or entered their
appearance therein.
In the bills of foreclosure the plaintiffs among other things
prayed for the appointment of a receiver or receivers of all the
railroad, equipment and appurtenances and other mortgaged
premises, and of the earnings and -income, rents, issues and
profits thereof; that the net amount of such earnings should
be first applied to the payment of the interest on all the bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1808.
Opinion of the Court.

issued under the mortgage to the plaintiffs, and to the payment of the interest on all mortgage bonds having prior lien's
on the property, in such order as the court might direct; and
that the balance should be applied to the payment of the sums
due and in arrears to and for the sinking fund provided for in
the mortgage to them for the redemption of the bonds issued
under said mortgage.
Such proceedings were had in the foreclosure suits brought
in the Circuit Courts of the United States that, on the 2d and
3d days of February, 1875, Roosevelt and Fosdick were duly
appointed receivers of the railroad, equipment. and appurtenances and other mortgaged premises embraced in and covered
by said mortgage, afnd of the earnings, income, rents, issues
and profits thereof; and they were directed not to disturb the
possession of the mortgaged premises by the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway Company under the lease to it,
but should collect and receive the rental payable by the lessee,
and apply the same as provided by the further orders of the
court. And in the order of appointment it was further directed
that the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway
Company forthwith transfer and convey to the receivers the
said railroad equipment and appurtenances and other mortgaged premises embraced by the mortgage, and including the
income, rents, issues and profits thereof. The conveyance so
ordered was duly executed, and delivered to Roosevelt and
Fosdick as receivers, on or about May 25, 1875.
That deed was not recorded, and the plaintiff Charles R.
Lynde had no actual knowledge of its existence until the commencement of this action in 1891.
Immediately after their appointment the receivers in pursuance of the above order took possession and control of all
said railroad and property, its income, rents, issues andprofits,
subject, however, to the physical possession and operation of
the railroad by the lessee. They continued in possession and
control until after the sale of the railroad and the property
hereinafter set forth.
-Such further proceedings were had in the foreclosure suits
that on the 15th, 16th and 23d days of November, 1882, in the

PITTSBURG11 &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 501
Opinion of the Court.

several Circuit Courts, similar decrees were entered, wherein
it was adjudged that in case the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company failed for ten days to pay the
sum found due in the decree, the mortgage should be foreclosed and the property conveyed by it-which, as we have
seen, included all the _property described in the petition herein
-should
be sold for the payment of the principal and interest
of said bonds, subject to the outstanding sectional bonds prior
in lien to the mortgage to Roosevelt and Fosdick, and to all
other if any paramount liens thereon, but free from the lien
of the mortgage to Roosevelt and Fosdick; that the decree
should not -inany manner affect, prejudice or preclude the
holders of the paramount liens or any of them, but should be
without prejudice to the rights of them and each of them. It
-as also adjudged that the purchaser of the mortgaged premises should be invested with, and should hold, possess and
enjoy the same and all the rights, privileges and franchises
appertaining as fully and completely as the Columbus, Chicago
and Indiana Central Railway Company at the commencement
of the suit by Roosevelt and Fosdick held or then held and.enjoyed, or was entitled to hold or enjoy, butfreefrom liens then
represented by any party to said cause.
In that decree it was further adjudged that the sale decreed
to be made, and the conveyance, after confirmation, thereof,
to be executed and delivered, should be valid and effectual
forever, aud that thereby the defendants in said suits, respectively, and all persons claiming or to claim under them or
any of them, subsequent to the beginning of the suits by Roosevelt and Fosdick, as purchasers, incumbrancers or otherwise
howsoever, should be forever barred and foreclosed of and
from all rights, estate and interest, claim, lien and equity of
redemption of, in or to the premises, property, rights and
interests so sold and every or any part thereof. On or about the 10th day of January, 1883, in conformity
with the decree, the said property and every part thereof was
sold by masters, theretofore appointed to execute the order of
sale, William L. Scott, Charles J. Osborn and John S. Kennedy, for the sum of $13,500,000, which sum was insufficient

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to pay the outstanding bonds and -interest, secured by the
mortgage to Roosevelt and Fosdick:
Afterwards, and on or about the 30th day of January, 1883,
the Circuit Courts for the Northern District of Illinois and the
District of Indiana, and on the 31st day of-January, 1883, the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Ohio - the said purchase money having been paid -by orders entered in those
causes, duly confirmed and- approved the sale, apd ordered
said premises and property, rights and franchises, to be conveyed to the purchasers, in fee simple, in accordance with the
former decrees of those courts. Such a conveyance was made
February 21, 1883.
Subsequently, on or about the 17th day of March, 1883,
Scott, Osborn and Kennedy, with their respective wives, executed and delivered their deed of that date, conveying said
premises and property, rights and francbises, to the Chicago,
St. Louis and Pittsburgh Railroad Company, which was authorized to purchase and own the same.
On or about the 10th day of June, 1890, the Chicago,
-St. Louis and Pittsburgh Railroad Company was duly consolidated with the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway Company, together with other railway companies, under
the name 'of and thereby became the Pittsburghy Cincinnati,
Chicago and St. Louis Railway Company.
The latter company was, at the commencement of this
suit, and through its predecessors in title have been ever since
the conveyance to Scott Kennedy and Osborn, in the actual,
peaceable and undisputed possession of all said railroad, premises and property, rights and franchises, including that described in the petition.
The history of the 36 bonds in suit is as follows:
On and before the 1st day of November, 186-4, Benjamin E.
Smith was the president of the. Columbus and Indianapolis
Central Railway Company. He continued to be president of
that corporation, and of its successors into .which it was successively consolidated, until the sale of the railroad hereinbefore mentioned.in 1883.
In thd-months of November and December, 1875, Smith bor-

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 503
-

Opinion of the Court.

rowed for his own purposes $48,000 from W. H. Newbold,
Son & Co., brokers in Philadelphia, executing and delivering
to them his individual notes. At that time he had, as president of the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway
Company, the custody and possession (f the 179 bonds hereinbefore described; and without the knowledge, authority or
consent of that company, but falsely pretending to W. H.
Newbold, Son.& Co. that he was individually the owner of such
bonds, delivered certain of them, including-the 36 described inthe plaintiff's petition, as collateral security for the payment
of his notes. He subsequently renewed his notes with the
.same collateral from time to time until about the 14th day of
January, 1878, when the 36 bonds were sold by W. H. Newbold, Son & Co., and the proceeds applied to the payment of
Smith's notes. The balance was paid over to him or fdr his
use, and no part of it -was used for the benefit of the railway
company.
At the time the bonds were so pledged all the past-due
coupons had been cut off, and while they were so held as col]ateral security the subsequent coupons, as they fell due, were
cut from the bonds and delivered to Smith,,but were never
presented for payment.
At the sale of the bonds, Newbold, Son & Co. themgelves "
became the purchasers of the 36 bonds, paying the full market
price, and buying them in good faith without knowledge of
Any defect in them; and .thereafter they sent them to New
York for sale.
In the months of May, July and August, 1878, Lynde purchased the 36 bonds in good faith in the usual course of business for valuable consideration, (being about ninety cents on
the dollar, which was at the time.-the -usual market price for
them,) without knowledge or notice of the unauthorized or
fraudulent acts of Smith, and without any knowledge or
notice that the bonds had not been sold by the Cblumbus and
Indianapolis Railway Company, and thereby became the bona
fide holder and owner of the bonds and the coupons thereto
belonging. Before the 36 bonds had been purchased by him
the railway company had not made default in the payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of interest on them, and no holder prior to Lynde had elected
that the principal sum should become.due.
At the time Lynde purchased the bonds the coupons due
May 1, 1878, Were still attached to the bonds and were unpaid.
On or about the 27th day of August, 1878, Lynde-presented
the 36 bonds for registration to the secretary of the Union
Trust Company, New York, which had been designated by
the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company as registering agent for such bonds in the city of New
York -to put the bonds in the name of the party registering
them and taking them out of the register and making them
to bearer; and the secretary then caused the same to be registered in the name of Lynde. At the time of such registration no inquiry was made by the secretary as to whether or
not the bonds had been regularly issued by the Columbus and
Indianapolis Central Railway Company.
The coupons maturing May 1, 1878, on these 36 bonds which
were attached to them when Lynde purchased, were paid to
the latter by the firm of A. Iselin & Co., Wall street, New
York, upon presentation by Lynde of the coupons in October,
1878; and the 36 coupons maturing November 1, 1878, were
paid to Lynde by the same firm upon the presentation of the
coupons in April, 1879. Iselin & Co. were acting for the receivers and a bondholders' committee-that committee furnishing the money for taking up the coupons, and being afterwards reimbursed by the receivers. In October, 1879, Lynde
presented the coupons falling due May 1, 1879, on the 36
bonds, but Iselin & Co. then declined to pay them, which was
the first knowledge or notice of any kind that he had of any
discrimination against or difference between those bonds and
any other bonds of the same series. And he has never received
payment of any coupon on the 36 bonds or any of them since
the payment to him as aforesaid of the coupons maturing in
November, 1878. At the time the May and November, 1878,
coupons were paid, Iselin & Co. had no knowledge but that
the 36 bonds had been regularly issued and sold by the
Columbus and Indianapolis Central Railway Company.
From the year 1871 until after the purchase by him of the

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 505
Opinion of the Court.

36 bonds, Lynde held and owned other bonds secured by the
mortgage of the -Columbus and Indianapolis Central Railway
Company to Parkhurst, trustee, above referred to, being some
of the 821 bonds before described.
The Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central :Railway Company made default in the payment of the interest coupons
upon said 821 bonds due on the first day of May, 1875, and on
the first day of November, 1875, and the interest coupons were
not paid until'after June 30, 1876, when they were paid by or
on behalf of the receivers hereinbefore mentioned, all which
facts were known to Lynde at the time he purchased the 86
bonds described in the petition.
At the time of the demand made by Lynde upon Parkhurst,
trustee, hereinafter set forth, and at the time of the commencement of this action, interest coupons which had theretofore fallen due upon more than seven hundred of said one
thousand bonds described in said mortgage had been paid.
On or about the 27th day of June, A.D. 1891, at Newark,
in the State of New Jersey, Lynde made a personal request and demand in writing of Parkhurst as trustee, to
commence an action for the foreclosure and sale of the
premises in accordance with the provisions of the deed of
trust, for and on account of the default made by the Coiunnbus and Indianapolis Central Railway Company in the payment of the coupons upon the 36 bonds; and then and there
offered to the trustee sufficient security and indemnity to protect him against all expenses and personal responsibility by
him to"be made and incurred in the commencement and prosecution of an action for the foreclosure and sale of the premises.
Parkhurst as such trustee refused to take the action requested.
The Columbus, Chicago and Indiana-Central Railway Company and the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis
Railway Company have neglected and refused to pay the
coupons due upon each of the bonds described in the petition,
being coupons from and including coupons ihaturing -May 1,
1879, to and including coupons -maturing May 1, 1892, the
last two of which fell due since the commencement of this
suit.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 1st day of October, 1890, the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati,
Chicago and St. Louis Railway Company made its mortgage
to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York, and
to W. N. J-ackson of Indiana, as trustee, for the purpose of
securing an issue of bonds to be made by that coimpany to
amount in the total to 75,000 bonds at the par value of $1000
each, to be issued as in said mortgage set out, and upon the
property described in, the answer and cross-petition of the
said Farmers' Loan and Trust Company filed in this cause,
including the line of railroad and other property connected
therewith, described in the petition of the plaintiff herein;
that said mortgage was duly recorded as required by law in
all of the counties in the several States through or into which
that line runs; that by virtue of that mortgage there have
been issued bonds to the total number of 5318, being the
bonds numbered from-1501 to 6818, both inclusive, and
amounting in the total to $5,318,000; and that said bonds are
now outstanding and in full force, and no default has been
made in the payment of interest thereon.
As conclusions of law from the foregoing. facts, the court
of common picas found the equities of the case in favor of
SLynde. It held that the 36 bonds and the coupons thereto
annexed were the valid and binding obligations of the Columbus and Indianapolis Central Railway Company and of the
Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company;
that Lynde was the owner and holder'of those bonds and
coupons, and each of them, as well as the coupons that accrued
May-1, 1879, to May 1, 1891, inclusive; that there was due to
him on such coupons, down to the entry of the decree, the
sum of $47,673.37; and that under and by virtue of the said
mortgage or deed of trust described in the petition Lynde
had a valid and subsisting lien, to -secure said bonds and
coupons, upon the railroad property described in the petition
as of November 1, 1864, and was entitled to a decree for the
payment of the sum so found due. A decree was subsequently
entered in conformity to these conclusions. Upon a *rit of
error to the Circuit Court of Franklin County that judgment was affirmed. The judgment of the latter court was

PITTSBURGH' &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 507
Opinion of the Court.

also affirmed upon writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Ohio.
While the cause was pending in the Supreme Court of the
State, Lynde died, and the Long Island Loan and Trust Company qualified as his executor.
The first question to be considered relates to the- jurisdiction of this court to review the final judgment of the Supreme
Court of Ohio.
The conten'tion of the defendant in error is that the record
presents no Federal question.which this court will review; and
that the state court based its decision upon an independent
ground, not involving a Federal question, but depending upon
principles of general law and broad enough to sustain its judgment. Its further contention is that the- Supreme Court of
Ohio rightly held that neither Lynde nor the trustee, Parkhurst, were affected by the proceedings in the foreclosure suits
instituted in the Circuit Courts of the United States.
Upon looking into the record, we find that the defendant
railway company claimed in its answer that if a lien at any
time attached to the property in question to secure the 36
bonds purchased by Lynde, such lien was wholly divested and
discharged by the above proceedings in the Federal courts
under which that company claims title. This, it would seem,was such an assertion of a right and title under an "authority
exercised under the United States" as gives this court jurisdiction to refxamine the final judgment of the state court.
Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
In DuPasseur v. Rochereau, 21 Wall.130, 134, 135, - which.
was a suit to subject certain lands in satisfaction of a debt
secured by mortgage, and for the amount of which debt judgment had been obtained, - the defence was rested upon the
ground that the defendant, purchased the property at a sale
made under a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of. Louisiana, in a named case,
"free of all mortgages and incumbrances and especially from
the alleged mortgage of the plaintiff." This defence was n9t
recognized by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and the case
was brought to this court by writ of error. One of the- ques-

OCTOBER TERMr, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tions considered was as to the jurisdiction of this court under
the act of Febkuary 5, 1867, which gives a writ of error to the
highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit could
be had, "where any title, right, privilege or immunity is
claimed under or authority exercised under the United States,
and the decision is against the title, right, privilege or immunity specially set up or claimed under . . . such authority."
Rev. Stat. ยง 709; act of February 5, 1867, c. 28, 14 Stat. 385.
Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"Where a state court refuses to give effect to the judgment
of a court of the United States rendered, upon the point in
dispute, and with jurisdiction of the case and the parties, a
question is undoubtedly raised which under the act of 1867
may be brought to this court for revision. The case would
be one in which a title or right is claimed under an authority
exercised under the United States, and the decision is against
the title or right so set up. It would thus be a case arising
under the laws of the United States establishing the Circuit
Court and vesting it with jurisdiction; and hence it would be
within the judicial power of the United States, as defined by
the Constitution; and it is clearly within the chart of appellate po'wer given to this court, over cases arising in and decided by the state courts." Having disposed of the question
of jurisdiction, the court then inquired whether the state
court, in overruling the defence, had given proper validity
and effect to the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States. Upon this point the court said: "The only effect that
can be justly claimed for the judgment in the Circuit Court of
the United States is such as would belong to judgments of the
state courts rendered under similar circumstances. Dupasseur
& Co. were citizens of France, and brought the suit in the Circuit Court of the United States as such citizens; and, consequently, that court, deriving its jurisdiction solely from the
citizenship of the parties, was in the exercise of jurisdiction
to administer the laws of the State, and its proceedings were
had in accordance with the forms and course of proceeding
in the state courts. It is apparent, therefore, that no higher
sanctity or effect can be claimed for the judgment of the

PITTSBURGH &c. R&ILWAY v. LOAN'& TRUST CO. 509
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of the United States rendered in such a case
under such circumstances than is due to the judgments of the
state courts in a like case and under similar circumstances.
If by the laws of the State a judgment like that rendered by
the Circuit Court would have had a binding effect as against
Rochereau, if it had been rendered in a state court, then it
should have the same effect, being rendered by the Circuit
Court. If such effect is not conceded to it, but is refused,
then due validity and effect are-not given to it, and a case is
made for the interposition of the power of reversal conferred
upon this court. We are bound to inquire, therefore, whether
the judgment of the Circuit Court thus brought in question
would have had the effect of binding and concluding Rochereau if it had been rendered in a state court. We have
examined this question with some care, and have come to the
conclusion that it would not."
The same question was again before this court in Crescent
Live ,tock Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S.1.41, 146, which
was an action for malicious prosecution, the defence being
that the existence of probable cause had been previously determined by a judgment in the Circuit Court of the United
States. It was contended that the Supreme Court of the
State failed to give proper effect to that judgment, and
thereby denied to the defendant a right arising under the
authority of the United States. The case came here upon
writ of error, and the jurisdiction of this court to review the
final judgment was sustained. Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, said: "It must, therefore, be conceded that
the sole question to be determined is, did the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, in deciding against the plaintiffs in error, give
proper effect to the decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States, subsequently reversed by this court? It is argued by
counsel for the defendant in error that this does not embrace
any Federal question; that the effect to be given to a judgment or decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
sitting in Louisiana by the courts of that State is to be determined by the law of Louisiana, or by some principle of general law as to which the decision of the state court is final;

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and that the ruling in question did not deprive the plaintiffs
in error of 'any privilege or ilmunity specially set up or
claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United States.'
But this is an error. The question whether a state court has
given due effect to the judgment of a court of the United
States is a question arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and comes within the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts by proper process, although, as was said by
this court in Dupasseur v. Roohereau, 21 Wall. 130, 135, 'no
higher sanctity or effect can be claimed for the judgment of
the Circuit Court of the United States rendered in a like case,
under similar circumstances.' -Embryv. -Palmer,107 U. S.3.
It may be conceded, then, that the judgments and decrees of
the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in a particular
State, in the courts of that State, are to be accorded such
effect, and such effect only, as would be accorded in similar
circumstances to the judgments and decrees of a state tribunal
of equal authority. But it is within the jurisdiction of this
court to determine, in this case, whether such due effect has
been given by the Supreme Court of Louisiana to the decrees
of the Circuit Court of the United States here drawn in question. The decree of the Circuit Court was relied upon in the
state court as a complete defence to the action for malicious
prosecution, on the ground that it was conclusive proof of
probable cause. The Supreme Court of Louisiana, affirming
the judgment of the inferior state court, denied to it, not only
the effect claimed, but any effect whatever."
According to these decisions and in view of the statute giving this court authority to -reexamine the final judgment of
the highest court of a State denying a right specially set up
or claimed under an authority exercised under the United
States, it is clear that we have jurisdiction to inquire whether
due effect was accorded to the foreclosure proceedings in the
Circuit Courts of the United States under which the plaintiff
in error claims title to the lands.and property in question.
The plaintiff in error contends that the state court did, not
give due effect to the decrees of the Circuit Courts of the
United States in the suits instituted by Roosevelt and Fos-

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 511
Opinion of the Court.

dick, in that it did not recognize as paramount the rights
acquired under those decrees by the purchasers of the property in question, but postponed or subordinated those rights
to a lien upon such property which, it is alleged, was created
or attempted to be created, while those suits were pending,
and while the property was in the actual custody of those
courts, by receivers, for purposes of being administered.
Did Lynde, under the circumstances stated in the finding
of facts, acquire a good title, as between himself and the
mortgagor company, and the companies which succeeded it
by consolidation, to the 36 bonds purchased by him from
Newbold & Son, as well as the right to claim the benefit of
the mortgage executed to Parkhurst? Referring to the facts
recited in the finding, the Supreme Court of Ohio said:
"Plaintiff in error contends, among other things, that the
facts thus stated show that neither the- maker of these bonds
nor the consolidated companies into which it became merged
consented to the sale or delivery of the bonds, and as an
owner cannot be deprived of his property without his con.
sent, no title passed. It is true that these bonds were negotiated to Newbold & Son without the knowledge or consent 'of
the company; but such consent and knowledge is not indispensable to pass the title to negotiable instruments. Where
this class of paper, complete in form and transmissible by
delivery, is placed by the maker or owner in the custody of
one who is thereby clothed with an apparent power of disposition, and the custodian avails himself of the opportunity
thus afforded him to negotiate it to an innocent party, the
title of the holder is not to be-tested by principles applicable
to stolen securities, but by principles properly applicable to
the transaction as it actually occurred. That the title to
negotiable securities may pass by virtue of such a transaction as the finding of fact shows occurred in respect to the
negotiation of the bonls in question is, we think, clear upon
principle and sustained by authority. Railway Co. v. Sprague,
103 U. S. 756; Fearingv. Clark, 16 Gray, 74. Independently
of the rules of law designed to protect and give currency to
negotiable paper, those principles of natural justice. univer-

OCTOBER- TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

sally applicable to the affairs of mankind, when applied to
this transaction, would seem to~demand the protection of the
defendant in error as against the maker of the bonds and all
who stand in its shoes. He was wholly free from fault in
connection with the transaction. Each bond contained a
declaration of its transmissibility from hand to hand by mere
delivery. He found them for sale, before they were due, in
the market, where such securities are usually offered for sale,
and bought them at their fair market value without notice of
any infirmity in their title. Soon thereafter he took them to
the Union Trust Company, in New York city, the agents of
the makers, specially appointed to register its bonds, and
caused them to be.registered in his name on its books. 'What
more could even the'highest degree of prudence or diligence
demand of him? The maker of the bonds, a railway company, capable of acting through agents only, placed these
bonds in the custody of its president, an agent clothed with
high, though possibly not clearly defined, powers. The bonds
were perfect obligations, bearing on their "face a certificate of
authentication by the trustee, and containing an express declaration of their transmissibility from hand to hand by mere
delivery. He was up. to, and long after the time these bonds
were negotiated, continued as president of the different consolidated companies as they were successively formed. Th companies thus held him out to the world as one *iho could be
trusted to, transact matters of importance. Under these circumstances what can be found tending to excite a doubt in
the most cautious mind respecting his power to dispose of
bonds so entrusted to him? If the maker of these bonds and
those who must abide by its title can shift the responsibility
and consequent loss resulting from'this transaction from themselves to the holder. of the bonds, it must be by the application
of some stern rule of law founded upon considerations of pub,lie policy." 55 Ohio St. 23, 45.
The state court adjudged that there was no rule of law arising out of the public policy of the State, as manifested by
state legislation, that required it to deny to the holders of
these bonds the rights and privileges pertaining to commer-

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 513
Opinion of the Court.

eial paper purchased in good faith in the ordinary course of
business.
Assuming that this question of general law was correctly
determined by that court, we are now to inquire what effect,
if any, the proceedings in the foreclosure suits instituted by
Roosevelt and Fosdick in the Circuit Courts of the United
States had upon the right of Lynde, as the bona fide holder
of the 36 bonds, to the security furnished by the Parkhurst
mortgage?
We have seen that when Lynde purchased the 36 bonds, to
secure which, with other bonds, the Parkhurst mortgage had
been previously executed, the property described in that mortgage and here in question was in the actual custody of the
Circuit Courts of the United States by receivers appointed in
the foreclosure suits brought by Roosevelt and Fosdick. The
contention of. the plaintiff in error is that the property was
a fund in those courts to abide the event of the litigation in
them, and that, pending the .proceedings in those courts and
their actual possession of the property, it was impossible that
Lynde, by purchasing the 36 bonds, could have acquired any
lien thereon which the law would recognize and enforce.
The principal authority cited in support of this contention
is Wiswall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52, 68, in which it was held
that while real estate is "in the custody of the court as a fund
to abide the result of a suit pending, no sale of the property
can take place, either on execution or otherwise, without the
leave of the court for that purpose." If the rule were otherwise, the court said, the whole fund might pass from its hands
before final decree, and the litigation become fruitless. We
do not perceive that the principle announced in Wiswall v.
Sampson controls the determination of the present case. If
there had been any attempt, by suit to enforce the lien given
by the Parkhurst mortgage by an actual sale of the property
in question pending the proceedings in the foreclosure suits, it
may be that the principle announced in that case could have
been invoked, and the sale would have been ineffectual to pass
title to the purchaser. But nothing was done by Lynde, after
the institution of the foreclosure suits and pending proceedings
VOL. CLMx--33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion. of the Court.

therein, which was inconsistent with or tended to defeat the
object of those suits. He only purchased the bonds in question, and sudh purchase was not hostile -to the possession by
the Circuit Courts in the foreclosure suits of the property
mortgaged to secure them, simply because by such purchase
he succeeded to an interest in the Parkhurst mortgage. The
foreclosure suits proceeded to a final decree without any attempt to interfere with the custody and control of the property for the purposes avowed in those suits; .for the bill filed
by Roosevelt and Fosdick showed, upon its face, that no relief
was asked as against the Parkhurst mortgage, or the bonds
secured by it. It was distinctly found, and it is not disputed,
that the iRoosevelt-Fosdick suits were for the foreclosure of
the mortgage in which they were named as trustees, "but
not affecting the Parkhurst mortgage aforesaid or the bonds
thereby secured." And .by the final decree in those suits the
mortgaged property was directed to be sold subject to the
outstanding bonds prior in lien to the Roosevelt-Fosdick
mortgage, and to all other if any paranount liens thereon.
The Parkhurst mortgage was prior ini date to the, RooseveltFosdick mortgage; and the decree in the foreclosure suits
expressly declared that nothing contained in it should "in
any manner affect, prejudice. or preclude the holders of Said
paramount liens or any of them, but that said'decree should
be without prejudice-to the rights of them and each of them."
Thus the decree expressly saved the rights'of those who held
bonds secured by mortgage prior in date to the mortgage to
Roosevelt and Fosdick. It bound only the defendants in the
foreclosure suits, and all persons claiming or to claim under
them or any of them, subsequent to the institution of those
suits. Strictly speaking, the lien that attended the 36 bonds
purchased by Lynde did not arise after the institution of the
foreclosure suits, although Lynde's purchase was pending the
proceedings in those suits, and while the property was in
the hands of receivers. That lien had its origin in the execution and delivery of the Parkhurst mortgage and the
authentication by the trustee of the bonds named in it, and
when any of those bonds became the property of a bona fide

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. LOAN & TRUST CO. 515
Opinion- of the Court.

holder, the lien given to secure them related back to the date
of the mortgage, which was long prior tb the institution of
the foreclosure suits. Besides, Parkhurst, the trustee in the
prior mortgage, was not made a party to the foreclosure suits,
and neither he nor those whose interests he was appointed to
represent were bound by the decree or any of its provisions.
The rule is well settled that a sale of real estate under judicial
proceedings concludes no one who is not in some form a party
to such proceedings. United Lines Telegraph Co. v. Boston
Deposit 6 Trust Co., 147 IT S. 431, 448. It would seem,
therefore, clear that the pendency of the foreclosure suits did
not interfere with the negotiation or transfer of the bonds
secured by the prior Parkhurst mortgage, nor did the decree
in those suits impair in any degree the lien created by the
Parkhurst mortgage, which antedated the mortgage to Roosevelt and Fosdick. The mere purchase of the 36 bonds by
Lynde, and the acquisition by him in consequence of such
purchase of an interest in* the Parkhurst mortgage, cannot
be regarded as hostile to the possession taken by the Circuit
Courts of the United States of the property embraced by the
Roosevelt-Fosdick mortgage for the purpose of selling it in
satisfaction- of the debts secured by that mortgage, but subject to prior paramount liens, such as the lien created by the
Parkhurst mortgage.
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that the state
court did not fail to give due effect to the several decrees in
the Circuit Courts of the United States in the foreclosure suits
instituted by Roosevelt and Fosdick, when it held that those
decrees did not prevent the defendant in error from claiming
the benefit of the'lien created by the mortgage to Parkhurst
to secure the payment of the bonds purchased by Lynde from
Newbold & Son.
The judgment below is .
Afir'med.

