SONNENTHEIL v. MOERLEIN BREWING CO.

401

Statement of the Case.

SONNENTHEIL v. CHRISTIAN MOERLEIN BREWING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 45. Argued October 18, 19, 198.-Decded January3, 1899.

A suit against a marshal of the United States, for acts done in his official
capacity, is a suit arising under the laws of the United States; and the
joinder of another defendant, jurisdiction over whom is dependent upoxi
diversity of qitizenship, does not deprive the marshal of'rights he would
otherwise possess.
In an action assailing the validity of an assignment by an insolvent debtor
with preferences, if there be a conflict as to the words used, or'if the
words themselves be ambiguous, the question of intent must be left to
the jury.
There is no class of cases which are more peculiarly within the province of
the jury than such as involve the existence of fraud.
Under the peculiar circupstances of this case, it was not error to submit to
the jury the question of fraud referred to in the opinion of the court.

THIs was an action at law, brought by Sonnentheil, trustee
under a deed of trust executed December 16, 1892, by Freiberg, Klein & Co., of Galveston, Texas, against the Christian
Moerlein Brewing Company, an attaching creditor, and one
Dickerson, whose Christian name is unknown, marshal of the
United States for the Eastern District of Texas, to recover
the value of a stock of goods seized by the marshal under
writs of attachment in favor of the Brewing Company.
Prior to December 16, 1892, Moses Freiberg, Sam Klein
and Ioseph Seinsheimer were, under the firm name of Freiberg, Klein & Co., conducting a wholesale liquor and cigar
business at Galveston, Texas. Having become embarrassed
and unable to meet their liabilities, upon the date above
named, they conveyed by deed of trust to the plaintiff Sonnentheil their stock of goods, together with their other property
and the debts due them, authorizing him to take immediate possession thereof, to sell the property and collect the
debts, and apply the proceeds to the payment of certain creditors named in the deed of trust. This deed was filed as a
voL- cLxxI-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

chattel mdrtgage with the county clerk of Galveston County,
Texas, on the day it was executed, and the plaintiff in error
as trustee took immediate possession .of the property therein
conveyed.
Another deed of trust, dated December 17, was executed
by the same parties to the same trustee to secure the same
,debts. This deed differed fromn the first only in inserting
some words which had been erased from the first deed, in giving the trustee the power to compromise or sell the debts due
the'firm, and in binding the grantors, and each of them, in
the name of the firm, to make such further assurances as to the
property conveyed as would speed the execution of the trust.
Sonnentheil was holding the property in qcuestion under
bdth of these deeds when, on December" 23, 1892, a United
States deputy marshal seized and took it from his possession
against his protest. This seizure and dispossession were made
by. virtue of a writ of attachment from the Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Texas, in a suit for debt by the Brewing Company against Freiberg, Klein & Co., and the seizure
was directed by an agent of the company. The Brewing
Company was not secured in the deeds of trust. This suit
was brought by Sonnentheil, the trustee, against the marshal
and the Brewing Company to recover the value of the goods
thus seized and taken from him.
The defendant demurred to the jurisdiction of the court;
pleaded a general denial, and attacked the deeds of trust as
void on their face, and as not having been accepted by the
trustee or preferred creditors, and as having been made with
the intent to defraud the unpreferred creditors of the firm,
of which fraud they alleged the trustee and preferred cred'itors had knowledge. The specific objections urged to the
deeds -were that a provision allowing the trustee to compound
and compromise doubtful debts due the makers *as erased
from the first deed before filing, as well as one authorizing
each of the makers to make further assurances of title and
transfer with the same effect as if made by each in person.
That the makers of the first deed had, a short time prior to
its ei.ecution, represented to two commercial agencies that

SONILENTHEIL v. MOERLEIN BREWING CO. 403
Statement of the Case.

they were solvent, and had thereby deceived the defendant
company into selling them a large amount of goods on credit;
that the deeds conveyed property exceeding in value the
debts secured; that the 61aims provided for in the deeds were
also secured by solvent indorsers; that the makers had, not
long before the execution of the first deed, conveyed to L. Fellman a large amount of real estate for a feigned consideration
and in secret trust for themselves, and for the purpose of
removing the same from the reach of their creditors, and had
conveyed to others a large amount of assets to hold 'for their
benefit; that they had made to H. IKempner a deed of trust
to secure a pretended debt; that the makers of the deeds bad,
long prior to their execution, and whilst insolvent, entered into
a conspiracy with L. Fellman, who was indorser on a large
amount of Freiberg, Klein & Co.'s paper, and, with other persons, to remove the then present embarrassments of the firm
and to continue business; and then, after enlarging their
stock by purchases to a sufficient amount, to fail, and secure
Fellman and other home creditors, and that the deeds of trust
were the result of this conspiracy.
The plaintiff replied, denying the allegations of the answer,
and alleging acceptanpe of the deed of trust before levy of the
attachment. Upon the trial it was shown that the deeds-of
trast under which Sonnentheil claimed were duly executed;
that the first was duly filed for record, and that Sonnentheil
was in possession of the property as trustee at the time the
second deed was executed; that the debts preferred in the
deeds amounted to about $140,000, all of Which, except $10,000,
were secured by the accommodation indorsement of Fellman
& Grumbach, and none was secured otherwise; that several
of the creditors had accepted the deed of trust before the levy
of the attachment, and some of the secured debts were paid
thereafter.
The jury returned a verdict for the defendants, whereupon
the case was taken by the plaintiff to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and the judgment of the court below was there
affirmed. 41 U. S. App. 491. - Thereupon the plaintiff sued
out a writ of error from this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

r'. A. H. .Willie and .H. J. -.
error.

Wilson for plaintiff in

.Mr. F. Charles Rume for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

1. At the last term of this court motion was made to dismiss the writ of error upon the ground that under section 6
of the act of Congress of -arch 3, 1891, establishing the
Circuit Courts of Appeals, the judgment of the Court of Appeals affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court was final.
By this section the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Codirts
of Appeals shall 'be final in all cases in which the jurisdiction
depends entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit being
aliens and citizens of the United States, or citizens of different
States. 'In this case the plaintiff Sonnentheil was a citizen of
the State of Texas; the defendant Brewing Company was a
corporation created by the laws of Ohio, and a citizen of that
State, and Dickerson a citizen of the State of Texas; but it
also appears upon the face of the original petition that Dickerson was marshal of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas, and that he .made the seizure of the goods in
question through his deputy, John' H. Whalen, and under a
writ of attachment sued out by the Brewing Company against
Freiberg, Klein & Co. as defendants. It thus appears that
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court did not depend entirely
upon diversity of citizenship between the plaintiff and the
but upon the fact thabt one of the defendBrewing
ants was Company,
marshal of the United States, and was acting in that
capacity when he seized the goods in question.
Had the action. been brought against the marshal alone
there can be no doubt that the Circuit Court would have had
jurisdiction of the case as one arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States. Feibelrnannv. Packard,109
U. S. 421;. Bachraok v. Norton, 132 U. S.. 337. It is true
that in these cases the action was against the marshal'and

SONNENTHEIL v. MOERLEIN BREWING CO.

405

Opinion of the Court.

the sureties upon his bon.d, but there is no difference in principle. The right of action in both cases is given by the laws
of the United States, which make the marshal responsible for
trespasses committed by him in his official character. Book v;
Perkin=,139 U. S. 628; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 834; Texas
& Pacific Railway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593. If suits against a
bank or railways chartered by Congress are suits arising
under the laws of the United States, as was held in Osbbrn.
v. U. S. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, and in Pacii Railway Removal cadea, 115 U. S. 1, with even greater reason must it be
considered that a suit against a marshal of the United States
for acts done in his oticial capacity falls within the same
category.
The joinder of another defendant, jurisdiction, over whom
was dependent upon diversity of citizenship, deprived the
marshal. of no right he otherwise would have possessed.
Though there are two defendants, the case was one, and that a
case in which the jurisdiction was not dependent entirely upon
the opposite parties to the suit being citizens of different States.
Had two suits been brought, one of them would undoubtedly
have been dependent upon citizenship, and the other a case arising under the laws of the United States. But as the plaintiff
chose to join both defendants in a single action, jurisdiction'
of that action was not wholly dependent upon either consideratidn. Had the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court been
originally invoked solely upon the ground of diversity of citizenship as applied to the Brewing CQmpany, the case would
have fallen within the Colorado Central .Mining Company v.
Turck, 150 U. S. 138, but as the original petition declared
against Dickerson as marshal, for an official act as such, that,
case has no application.
The record contains twenty-three assignments of error,
most of which it will be unnecessary to consider separately.
For the purposes of this decision they are reducible to three.
2. Several of these assignments are based upon an alleged
error of the court in submitting to the jury the question
whether the deed of trust was accepted by any of the preferred creditors before the levy of the attachment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Under the laws of Texas it is conceded that the instruments
in question were deeds.of trust, in the nature of chattel mortgages, under which the proceeds of the property sold were,
after paying expenses, to be appropriated to the payment of
the debts enumerated in the deeds, and any surplus remaining to be turned over. to the makers of the instrument, and
that such a deed of trust must be accepted by some bona flde
creditor secured therein in order to give it effect.
. In this connection the plaintiff requested the court to charge
that "the deed of trust in question in this case is valid upon
its face, and the debts secured therein. are shown. to have been,
at the time of its execution, bona f#de debts of the makers,
Freiberg, Klein & Co. Ithas been further shovn that some
of the creditors named therein accepted said deed before the
levy of the attachment of the Moerlein Brewing Company,
and it has not-been shown that at the time of such acceptance
such creditors had knowledge of any fraudulent intent in the.
making of such deed, or had any cause to suspect that the same
was made with fraudulent intent."
This 'the court refused, and in lieu thereof charged that the
deed, upon its face, was a legal instrument; that it differed
under the laws of Texas from an assignment in the fact that
ai assignment presumes that "all the creditors named accepted
it. In order to make a deed of trust operative it is necessary
that the parties for whose benefit it is made should accept it.
It is not necessary that the acceptance should be in writing,
nor is there any particular form of acceptance. By the term
'acceptance' it is simply meant that when they understand
what has been, done, they consent to it; they agree to it, no
matter in what form that may be done. Anything that shows
that after being informed of what has been done, that with a
knowledge of these facts, they assent to it, or they agree to it,
constitutes and is, in fact, an acceptance. .

.

.

I hold as

a matter of law that if you find as a matter of fact that if any
creditor accepted the terms of this instrument before the levy
of the attachment, and you do not find that debt to be infected
with fraud, as I shall hereafter instruct yotr, in that event you
are instructed that 'the entire property named in this deed

SONNENTHEIL v. MOERLEIN BREWING CO.

407

Opinion of the Court.

passed to the trustee, and in thin action he may recover for
whatever it is shown the property was worth at the time and
place it was taken."
To the charge as thus given exception was taken upon the
ground that it left the question of the acceptance of the deed
of trust by the beneficiaries to the determination of the jury,
when such acceptance was a question of law which should
have been determined by the court; that the entire and uncontradicted l roof showed that before the levy of the attachment, the deed of trust had been accepted by a portion of the
beneficiaries named therein, and also by the trustee, and that
there was no question of fact for the jury to determine.
The evidence upon this point was that the deed was made
on December 16, 1892, and filed in the county clerk's office
the same night, and that the goods were seizediby the marshal
under the attachment of the Brewing Company on December
23; that one Fry was one oi the creditors secured in the deed;
that he'was informed of the deed of trust the night it was
executed, and that he was secured in it. He answered that it
was all right, and repeated the same thing next day.
Of the firm of Adoue & Lobit, who were also bonaj§da cred-itors secured by the deed, Adoue testified as follows: "The
assignee, Sonnentheil, came to our office in the morning before
twelve o'clock and told me that we were one of the secured
creditors in the trust deed, and he would expect me to give
him my assistance in the management of the business. I said
I would, and for that purpose he would call a meeting later on. That was my notice of the failure. I answered him in a few
w9rds. Cannot exactly recall them. .Isaid it was all right;
very glad he was assignee; hoped we would get our money
back. I attended two or three meetings. .
. I did more
than indicate my acceptance of the security that was given me
by the deed of trust. We acted thereas if it were our own
property. We were discussing how it was best. to, dispose of
it so as to get our money out of it; that was my idea."
Lobit, his partner, testified as follows: "When I. learned of
the failure I also learned that the notes which we hel.d were
secured by the deed of trust. This I also learned from the
*.

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

newspaper. I also talked with Moses Freiberg a few days after
the deed. of trust was made. He regretted the failure and
was sorry. I told him that I was satisfied, inasmuch as they
had protected us in the deed of trust, and that I supposed they
had done the best they could, and we were satisfied with it."
One Marx, the Galveston agent of S. A. Walker, a creditor
of the firm, also testified: "I learned of it next morning after
it occurred. Did not know of it before. I talked to Fellman
about the deed of trust. He was endorser of Walker's paper;
did not talk particularly to any member of the firm of Freiberg, Klein & Co.; I accepted under the deed of ,trust, probably the next day, I think to Joe Seinsheimer. I assented
to the deed of trust securing Walker. I was authorized to
do so for Walker."
Of course, if the acceptance had been in writing, the construction of such writing would have been a question for the
court. With reference to parol understandings, the rule is
that if there be any conflict as to the words used, or if the
words themselves be ambiguous, the question of intent must
be left to the jury. Notwithstandiiig the testimony of these
witnesses was so positive to the effect that they accepted the
trust, we are of opinion that it was not improper to submit
the question to the jury. In its charge the court instructed
the jury that the creditors who accepted the deed of trust
must themselves be free from the taint of fraud, and the
question of fraud was so connected with that of acceptance
that it w.s possible for the jury to have found that the accepting creditors had knowledge of the fraud at the time of
their acceptance, They were all apparently interested in suistaining the deed, and in denying all knowledge of a fraudulent intent, and while the jury has no right to arbitrarily
disregard the positive testimony of unimpeached and uncontradicted witnesses, Lomer v. Meeker, 25 N. Y. 361, 363;
Elwood v. Tesern Union Tel. Go. 45 N. Y. 549, 553, the very
courts that lay down this rule qualify it by saying the
mere fact that the witness is interested in the result of the
suit is deemed sufficient to require the credibility of his
testimony tq be submitted to the jury as a question of fact.

SONNENTREIL v. -MOERLEII

BREWIING CO. 409

Opinion of the Court.

.Munoz v. Tilson, 111 N. Y. 295, 300; Deai v, Metroavolitam
Elevated Railway, 119 N. Y. 540, 550; CanajoharieBank
v. Dilfendorf, 123 N. Y. 191, 200; 7olkmar v. .Manhatta.
Railoay, 134 N. Y. 418, 422; Rumey v. Boutwell, 61 Hun,
165, 168; Ro8eberry v. iBixon, 58 Hun, 121; _.Posthof v.
Schreiber, 4V' Hun, 593, 598.
3. Upon the trial it was insisted that the deeds were void
upon their face, but the court held them to be valid, and we
see no reason to question the correctness of its conclusion.
Upon the question of actual fraud, which was the main issue
'in the case, the court charged the jury as follows: "If you
find from the evidence that any one creditor had accepted
the deed of trust before the levy of .attachment, and that
such ereditor was not guilty of fraud himself and was not
aware of fraud in the makers of said "instrument, or was not
in possession of such information as would have put a reasonably prudent person upon inquiry, you will -find for the
plaintiff; but on the other hand, if you find that the creditor
or creditors had accepted said deed .of trust before the levy
of said attachment, and were either guilty of fraud themselves
or were possessed of information that would have led a reasonably prudent person to infer that fraud did exist, you will
find for the defendant.".
This instruction was excepted to by the plaintiff upon the
ground that it left to, the jury the fact whether any of the
creditors had knowledge of the fraudulent intent-if any
there were-in the making of the deed of trust, when there..
was no evidence whatsoever to show that the beneficiaries
who accepted said deed of trust either had knowledge of any
such fraudulent intent - if it existed - or that they were put
upon inquiry as to such fraudulent intent by any circumstances which had been given in evidence; but, on the .contrary, the uncontradicted evidence was that they had no
knowledge of any such fraud, if any there was, ol' of any fact
that would have put them upon inquiry with reference to the
same.
With regard to the question of fraud in fact there was considerable testimony, but it was. insisted by the plaintiff that,

OCTOBER TERIMf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

so far as concerned the creditors who accepted the deed of
trust, there was not a scintilla of evidence tending to show
either direct knowledge of. the fraud, or such information as
would put a reasonibly prudent person upon inquiry as to the
existence of such fraud.
It may be said in general that there is no class of cases
which are more peculiarly within the province of the jury
than such as involve the existence of fraud. So much depends
upon the character of the business transacted by the insolvent
firm, the circumstances under which the deeds are executed,
the relation of the parties to one another and to the preferred
creditors, the manner in which the business is subsequently
conducted, the opportunities the preferred creditors had of informing themselves of the facts, that it is rarely safe to withdraw the question from the jury. Parties contemplating a
fraud frequently pursue such devious courses to conceal their
designs, and resort to such subtle practices to mislead their
unsecured creditors, that the fraud becomes impossible to detect, unless the door be swung wide open for the admission of
all testimony having any possible bearing upon the question.
Facts which to the court might seem of no pertinence and be
rejected as having no legal tendency to show knowledge of
the fraud, might be considered by the jury as significant and
indicative of a guilty participation. Even negative evidence
may sometimes have a positive value.
The testimony in this case indicates that as early as February, 1891, it had been discovered by Freiberg that the firm
had lost considerable sums*of money through Seinsheimer, one
of the partners, and was in an embarrassed condition; and
arrangements were made with the principal creditor of the
firm, a kinsman of Freiberg, by which it was hoped to extricate themselves. This proving ineffectual, a meeting was
called at the residence of one Fellman, in Galveston, which
was attended by the members of the firm and by Felhman,
Kempner and Grumbach, indorsers for the firm. Seinsheimer
and Grumbach married sisters and were sons in law of Fellman; Kempner was a brother in law of Seinsheimer. At the
time of this meeting Fellman and Grumbach, who were part-

SONNENTHEIL v. -MOERLEIN BREWING CO.

411

Opinion of the Court.

ners in the dry goods business, were indorsers for Freiberg,
Klein & Co. to the extent of $135,000. At this and other
meetings which were held, the question of the solvency of the
firm, and the means which should be used to protect it from
failure, were considered, and arrangements were made to reduce their debts so that they could continue business. After
these meetings the firm continued business as before, buying
and selling goods for cash and upon credit. At these meetings it was determined that the firm should endeavor to carry
on their business, but if it had to fail that Fellman should be
protected at all hazards. There was also evidence to the effect
that a short time prior to the failure Fellman promisedto buy
out their goods and let them carry on the business in his name.
The testimony also tended to show that before making the
deeds, a conveyance of land for something less than its value
was made by the firm to Fellman for cash paid by him. Also
that Seinsheimer, one of said firm, had kept from the trustee.
some of the bills receivable by the firm, but that the trustee,
upon finding this out, had rhade him turn the bills over to him.
In March, 1891, a request for a report of the financial condition of the firm by a commercial agency was answered by
a statement, made under the direction of Seinsheimer, showing that the assets of the firm exceeded its liabilities by
$200,000, when in truth the firm was insolvent. The business of the firm was continued by the purchase and sale of
goods, and the Fellman indorsements were continued by extensions and renewals.
In February, 1892, it was discovered that the firm was hopelessly insolvent, but another call from the commercial agencies
for an annual report was again met by a false statement, showing assets in excess of liabilities of more than $200,000. Fellman, Grumbach and Kempner had full notice from members
of the firm of all these matters.
In the summer of 1892 the failure of the firm 'became evident, and goods were purchased 'and placed in stock, with a
knowledge that they could not be paid for. The credits of
the firm were restricted; in some instances entirely cut off,
and rumors of its insolvency circulated throughout the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Munity. The dangerous condition of the firm became a
matter of discussion among business men in Galveston, and
inquiries continued to be made from abroad of the local commercial agencies as to their solvency. A demand was again
made. by a commercial agency in September, 1892, at the ih.stance of the defendant Brewing Company, and was answered
by another statement, showing an excess of $200,000 over all
liabilities; and the Brewing Company was thereby induced
to extend a further credit to the firm.
iNotwithstanding the apparently desperate condition of the
firm, during the months of September, October and November
and up to the 16th day of December, 1892, the day of its failure, the firm made large purchases upon credit, and, early in
December, Fellman, who was then in New York, was called
home to participate in and direct ihe business. He came inmediately and assumed the practical superintendence of affairs.
Upon consultation with attorneys, he had the original purpose
of the firm to transfer its property directly to him changed
to a trust deed in favor of the creditors whose paper he had
endorsed. At his request Sonnentheil, a relative of his wife,
was employed as trustee, at a salary of $150 per month. He
had been a business man in Galveston, but was without knowledge or experience in the particular business for which he was
selected. A deed of trust was thereupon executed to Sonnentheil, as trustee, to secure home creditors and two who were
not home creditors, already secured, save in a few and relatively unimportant instances, by the indorsements of Fellman
and Grimbaoh. The pioperty covered by the deed of trust,
which exceeded in value the secured debts by about $75,000,
was turned over to the trustee in pursuance of an arrangement
between the firm and Fellman that the business should be continued either in Fellman's name or in the name of some one
else, until a settlement could be obtained, when it was to revert
to the firm.
The possession of the trustee consisted in his having the
key to the storehouse in which the goods were situated, and
in attending at the store some hours every day. He signed
all the letters and checks, and kept control of the general

SONNENTHEIL v. "MOERLEIN BREWING CO.

413

Opinion of the Court.
cash. The three members of the firm were each employed
at a salary of $300 per month, Seinsheimer as correspondent.
He also had the keeping of the daily cash receipts. The other
two acted as collectors. All the employAs of the firm, including the drummers, were retained in their respective positions,
and at their former salaries. The firm's sign, prominently
displayed over the door of the storehouse, was not removed.
The business (exclusive of the purchase of goods) was conducted, with fhe consent of the beneficiaries, in the usual way
by selling in small parcels, sometimes on credit and sometimes
for cash, to the regular customers of the firm. Such customers consisted largely of barrooms throughout the State of
Texas, and the purpose of the trustee was in accordance with
the wish of the beneficiaries to keep these barrooms going
in the usual way by selling them goods on time, so as not
to interrupt their usual business, and gradually collect what
they owed.
The books of the firm, the trustee claimed, were in his
charge, but he admitted that all entries made in the books
after the date of the failure were made therein by Seinsheimer, and not under his (the trustee's) direction, but in his
capacity as a member of the firm. In fact, he claimed to be
ignorant of such entries, although they showed that the books
had been regularly kept just as though no change had been
made in the ownership of the property.
While there is nbthing in all this which proves either direct
knowledge of the fraud to the accepting creditors, or positive.
knowledge of facts which necessarily put them upon inquiry,
there is a stfong probability that these creditors, who were
all business men resident in Galveston, were possessed of the
same information that others had regarding the failing condition of the firm. As one of the witnesses stated: "Rumors
were afloat that they were slow in payments, owing largely
to banks and individuals; credit refused them in some quarters, and generally that their business as not healthful. Inquiries as to the financial standing of the firm came from
Northern and Eastern cities, local banks and firms. -There
were rumors in Galveston, general in their character and dis-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

cussed among brokers, banks and merchants." It is scarcely
possible that these rumors could have escaped the ears of their
local creditors. It is not improbable that the peculiar rela.tionship of the firm to Feilman was known to these creditors,
as well as the fact that the assignment was intended primarily
to protect Fellman, and secondarily to secure a settlement
with the creditors upon terms favorable to the firm, and the
subsequent return' of the property to them. It is by no
means impossible that they knew that the firm were making
large purchases of goods on credit just before their assignment; that false representations had been made to commercial agencies of their financial standing; that the debts secured
by the deed of trust were already secured by Fellman's indorsement; that the firm still remained in open possession
of the stock and practically retained direction of the business,
and that to the public at large there was no apparent change
in its conduct or headship. Under the peculiar circumstances
of this case it was not error to submit this question to the
jury, and there is no criticism to make of the charge of the
court in that particular. Indeed, in another case arising out
of the same failure the Supreme Court of Texas held that
the question of fraud was properly left to the jury. Sonnentheil v. Texas Guaranty & Tq-ust Co.,-30 S. W. Rep. 945.
4. Error is also assigned in admitting the statement of one
Werner as to interviews had between him and Freiberg and
Seinsheimer subsequent to the execution of the deeds of trust;
in which Freiberg is said to have asked Werner, as agent of
the Moerlein Brewing Company, to. give him, Freiberg, the
agency for the sale of the beer, saying that "after they got
a settlement they would go right ahead; the beer would not
change hands at all; go to the same customers ; and that the
firm was in such a shape that they had to fail." This evidence was objected to upon .the ground that it related to
statements made by the firm after the execution of the deeds
of trust, and was not known or assented to by the trustee or
the beneficiaries of the trust deed, and was incompetent to
affect their interests.
Werner, the witness, was agent for the Brewing Company,

SONNENTHEIL v. MOERLEIN BREWINGG CO. 415.
Opinion of the Court.

living in Cincinnati. Hearing of the failure, he left home and
reached Galveston three or four days after the assignment.
He went immediately to the office, and met Seinsheimer and
Freiberg. At this interview Freiberg made the statement in
question. There is no doubt of the general proposition laid
down by this court in Winche8ter & Partridge -Mfg. Co. v.
Creary, 116 U. S. 161, that in an action by the vendee of personal property against an officer attaching it as the property
of the vendor, declarations of the vendor to a -third party,
made after the delivery of the property, are inadmissible to
show fraud or conspiracy to defraud in the sale, unless the
alleged collusion be established by independent evidence, and
the declarations fairly form part of the res gestm..
The same question was again considered in Jones v. Simpson,
116 U. S. 609, in which declarations of the vendor made after
delivery of the property to the vendee, but on the Same day
and fairly part of-the re8 gestw, were held to be admissible to
show intent to defraud the vendor's creditors by the sale, it
being also shown by independenit evidence that the vendee
shared the intent to defraud with the vendor.
In the case under consideration there was independent evidence that the vendors, Freiberg, Klein & Co., and the vendee, Sonnentheil, we're engaged in a common purpose to
defraud the creditors of the vendors, and the declarations in
question were not mere admissions of what had already taken
'place, but were propositions for a further continuance of business with the Brewing Company, upon a basis which indicated
that after they had obtained a settlement with their creditors,
they would assume their ownership and, charge of the stock
and continue business as .they had done before. While the
propriety of admitting these declaratiohs as against the plaintiff Sonnentheil and the secured creditors may be open to
some doubt, it is entirely clear that they were admissible
against Freiberg, Klein & C6., and the rights of the secured
creditors were so carefully guarded in the charge to the jurii
that we think no harm could have resulted from allowing
the jury to consider them.
We have examined the remaining assignments of error, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.;
Statement of the Case.

which there are a large number, but the disposition we have
made of the others renders it unnecessary to consider them.
While the propriety of some of the rulings may admit of
.doubt, the objections made were extremely technical in their
character, and the majority of the court are of opinion that no
error was committed prejudicial to the plaintiff and to the secured creditors, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals must therefore be

Afl rmed.

UTTER v. FRANKLIN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 94. Argued and submitted December 12, 1898. -Decided

January 8, 1899.

It was within the power of Congress to validate the bonds in question in
this proceeding, issued -by the authorities of the Territory of Arizona,
to promote the construction of a railroad.

THIs was a petition for a writ of mandamus to compel the
defendants, who were respectively governor, auditor and secretary of the Territory, acting as loan commissioners, to issue
certain bonds in exchange for bonds issued by the county of
Pima in aid of the Arizona Narrow Gauge Railroad Company.
The petition set forth that plaintiffs were the bona flde
holders for value of certain seven per cent bonds and coupons
issued in July, 1883, in compliance with an act of the Territory "to promote the construction of a *certain railroad,"
approved February 21, 1883, aggregating, including principal
and interest thereon, the sum of $289,964.50. There was a
further allegation in the petition that it was the duty of the
defendants to provide for the redeeming of such indebtedness
and to issue refunding bonds therefor; that plaintiffs had
made demands for the same, which defendants had refused.
Defendants demurred to the petition, and for answer
thereto averred that the bonds now held by the plaintiffs

