OCTOBER TERAI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY v. BOARD OF PUBLIC
WORKS OF WEST VIRGINIA. 1
'APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGNIA.
No. 8. Submitted January 25, 1898.-Decided November 28, 1898.
The collection of taxes assessed under the authority of a State is not to b6
restrained by writ of injunction from a court of the United States, unless
it clearly appears, not only that the tax is illegal, but that the owner of
the property taxed has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of
the law, and that there are special circumstances bringing the case within
some recognized head of equity jurisdiction.
A railroad bridge across a navigable river forming the boundary line between two States is not, by reason of being an Instrument of interstate
commerce, exempt from taxation by either State upon the part within it.
A railroad bridge is taxable under the Code of West Virginia of 1891, c. 29,
§ 67; and, although the board of public works assesses separately the
whole length of the railroad track within the State, and that part of the
bridge within the State, yet, if the railroad company does not, as allowed
by that section, apply to the auditor te correct any supposed -mistake In
the assessment, nor appeal, within thirty days after receiving notice of
the decision of the board, to the circuit court of the county, and the
officers of the State make no attempt to interfere with the company's
possession and control of its real estate, nor, until after the expiration
of the thirty days, either to impose a penalty for delay in paying the
taxes, or to levy on personal property for non-payment of them, the
company cannot maintain a bill in equity in a court of the United States
to restrain the assessment and collection of any part of the taxes.

THE Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway
Company, a corporation of the State of 'Ohio, owning and
operating a railway rtinning through the States of West Virginia, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indiana and Illinois, under the
laws of those States,And crossing the Ohio River, a navigable
stream, forming the boundary between the States of West VirThe Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago
1 The docket title of this case is-"
and St. Louis Railway Company v. The Board of Public'Works of the State
of West Virginia."

PITTSBURGH &c. R'Y v. BOARD OF PUB. WORKS.

33

Statement of the Case.

ginia and Ohio, by means of a bridge built, owned and controlled by the plaintiff, filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of West Virginia a bill in equity
against the Board of Public -Works of the State of West Virginia, a public corporation, against its members individually,
(being the governor, the auditor, the treasurer, the superintendent of free schools and the attorney general of the State,)
and against one Cowan, sheriff of Brooke County, all of them
citizens of that State, to restrain the assessment and collection
of taxes upon the bridge under section 67 of chapter 29 of the
Code of West Virginia of 1891.
The bill alleged that, under and by virtue of that section of
the Code, the plaintiff was required, through its principal officers, to make return in writing, under oath, to the auditor of
the State, on or before the 1st of April in each year, and in
the manner prescribed by that section, of its property subject
to taxation in the State; the auditor was required to bring
the return, as soon as practicable, before the board of public
works; that board was authorized either to approve the return,
or to proceed to assess and fix the fair cash value of all the
property of railroad companies which they were so required
to return for taxation; and it was further provided that, as
soon as possible after the value of any railroad property
was fixed for purposes of taxation by one of the several
methods designated by that section, the auditor should assess
and charge such property with the taxes properly chargeable
thereon.
The bill also alleged that the plaintiff's main line of railway
ran through the State of West Virginia for a distance of 7.11
miles, of which 6.53 miles were in the county of Brooke and
0.58 miles in the county of Hancock; that its bridge across
the Ohio River was part of its railway; that the total length
of the bridge, including its abutments, was 2044 feet, of which
1518 feet were in West Virginia and 526 feet in Ohio; and
that the plaintiff, before April 1, 1894, as required by section
67 of chapter 29 of the Code, made to the auditor of the
State of West Virginia a return of its property subject to
taxation in the State for the year 1894, (a copy of which was
VOL. CLxXU-3

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

annexed to and made part of the bill, and is set out in the
margin,') and, in making that return, included, ix.the 7.11
miles of its main track so much of the bridge as lay within
the State, amounting to 1518 feet.
The bill further alleged that some time in September, 1894,
the board of public works, meeting at Charleston in that State,
as provided by that section of the Code, to assess and fix the
I Valuation

of P., C., C. & St. L. R'y Main Line in the State of West Virginia-as returned for Taxation for the Year 1894.
Brooke County. Cross Creek district:
lain track .......... 6.53 miles at $13,000 00 - 84,890 00
"
4,000 00 = 26,120 00
Second track ........... 6.53 "
'
2.500 00 = .31,550 00
Side track..,.: .......... 12.62 "
"
3,567 78,= 23,298 00
Rolling stock ........... 6.53 "
"
100 00 =
653 00
Telegraph line.......... 6.53 "
1,306 00
Supplies and tools ...............................
1,300 00
Station house at Colliers .........................
Water tank "
"
.........................
400 00
50 00
"
.........................
Sand house
"
100 00
'
"
...........
Car house
950 00
"
.........................
Trainmen's house
100 00
"
.........................
Scale house at
450 00
"
.......................
Tower west of
800 00
Tower at New Cumberland Junction ..............
180 00
Station at Hollidays Cove .......................
400 00
Station at Wheeling Junction ....................
Total listed value for Brooke County ................... $172,547 00
Hancock County. Butler district:
Main track .............. 0.58 miles at $13,000 00 = "7,540 00
"
"
4,000 00 = 2,320 00
Second track ......... 0.58
"
"
.2,500 00 = -2,375 00
Side tracks ............. 0.95
' "
3,567 00 = 2,069 00
Rolling stock ............ 0.58
58 00
"
"
100 00-=
Telegraph line .......... 0.58
116 00
Supplies and tools............................
Total listed value for Hancock County .................

14,478 00

Total listed value of main line ........................ $187,025 00
Summary of Mileage.
Main track ......................... ....................... 7.11 miles.
7.11
"
......................................
Second track.
'13.57
......................................
Side tracks
Rolling, stock... ............................................. 7.11
Telegraph line .............................................. 7.11

PITTSBURGH &e: R'Y v. BOARD OF PUB. WORKS.

35

Statement of the Case.

valuation of railroad property for the purposes of taxation,
refused to approve the plaintiff's return, and proceeded, among
other things, to assess the plaintiff with 6.53 miles of main
track and 6.53 miles of second track in the county of Brooke,
which assessment and valuation covered the entire length of
its railroad in the State of West Virginia, including so much
of the bridge as lay within the State; and, in addition thereto,
valued and assessed the bridge, as a separate structure, at the
sum of $200,000, placing the tax upon the bridge at $3060,
and the auditor proceeded to assess the plaintiff with this
smn of $3060; thereby assessing it with the entire length of
the bridge in West Virginia as a part of its railway in the
State, and also assessing it with the bridge as a separate
structure, thus taxing the plaintiff a second time for that
part of its bridge which lay in West Virginia; whereas the
bridge should only have been assessed as so many feet of the
railway.
The bill further alleged that neither the board of public
works, nor any member thereof, nor the auditor, informed the
plaintiff of the valuation which had been placed upon its
property by the board for taxation, nor of the taxes which
had been assessed thereon by the auditor; that on September
28, 1894, the plaintiff, not having been informed of the action
of the board or of the auditor, addressed through, its chief
engineer a letter to the auditor, inquiring what action had been
taken by the board of public works and the auditor with regard to the assessment of taxes on its property for 1894; that
the letter was not answered, nor was any information in regard
to the taxes given to the plaintiff until January 19, 1895, when
it received from the auditor a statement showing that the
board of public works had placed a separate and additional
valuation of $200,000 upon the bridge for the purposes of taxation, and that the auditor had proceeded to assess and charge
the plaintiff with the sum of $3060 as a tax for 1894: upon
that valuation; and that on January 19, 1895, the auditor
demanded of the plaintiff payment of that sum, and the plaintiff refused to pay it, but paid to the auditor the rest of the
taxes assessed, amounting to the sum of $4:187, upon a valua-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

tion of $310,830, which included the plaintiff's railroad in the
county of Hancock.
The bill further alleged that "on the - day of1895"
the auditor added ten per cent to the sum of $3060, to pay
the expense, of collection, and certified that sum, with the ten
per cent added, to the sheriff of Brooke County for collection;
and that the sheriff "since said date" had demanded payment
of the sum of $3060 and the ten per cent additional, and was
threatening to collect them by legal process, and would thus
inflict irreparable injury upon the plaintiff, unless prevented
by the interposition of a court of competent jurisdiction.
The plaintiff further alleged that the bridge constituted a
part of its line of railway, and had no separate earning capacity, and no greater earning capacity than any other equal
number of feet of its line of railway, and was used exclusively
by it in transporting freight and passengers across the Ohio
)River to and from the States of West Virginia and Ohio; and
that it was advised and believed that the bridge was an instrument of interstate commerce, and was not, as a separate structure from its line of railway, a proper subject for taxation
by the State of West Virginia in the manner- above set forth.
The bill then charged that the tax upon the bridge was
illegal and unjust, and constituted a cloud upon the title to the
bridge, and that by reason of that clause of the Constitution
of the United States, which gives Congress control over interstate commerce, the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of West Virginia was clothed with authority and
jurisdiction to restrain and to prevent the assessn-hent and
collection of this illegal and unjust tax; and prayed for an
injunction against its assessment and collection, and for further
relief.
The bill was sworn to March 18, 1895; and was filed March
25, 1895, together with an affidavit to the effect that, since
the bill was sworn to, the sheriff had levied upon one of the
plaintiff's freight engines for the purpose of enforcing the collection of the tax upon the bridge. Upon the filing of the
bill, a temporary injunction was granted as prayed for.
A general demurrer to the bill was afterwards filed and

PITTSBURGH &c. R'Y v. BOARD OF PUB. WORKS.

37

Opinion of the Court.

sustained, the injunction dissolved, and the bill dismissed.
The plaintiff appealed to this court, under -the act of farch 3,
1891, c. 517, § 5. 26 Stat. 828.
AMr. J. .Dunbarand Mr. . B. Sommerville for appellant.
.Mr. Edgar P. Rucker, attorney general of the State of
West Virginia, .Mr. T. S. Riley and .Afr. Thayer Melvin for
appellee.
Mit. JUsTicE Gr&Y, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The collection of taxes assessed under the authority of a
State is not to be restrained by writ of injunction from a
court of the United States, unless it clearly appears, not only
that the tax is illegal, but that the owner of the property
taxed has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of
the law, and that there are special circumstances bringing the
case under some recognized head of equity jurisdiction. -Dows
v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108; Hannewinicle v. Georgetown, 15
Wall. 54:7; State Railroad Tax cases, 92 U. S. 575; Urion
J-ac ftc Railway v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516; .Milwaukee v.
-Muffler, 116 U. S.219 ; Shelton v. Platt,139 U. S.591.
In Dow8 v. Chicago, a citizen of the State of New York,
owning shares in a national bank organized and doing business in the city of Chicago, filed a bill in equity, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, to restrain the collection-of a tax assessed by the city of
Chicago upon his shares in the bank, alleging, among other
things, that the tax was illegal and void, because the tax was
not uniform and equal with taxes on other property as required by the constitution of the State, and because the shares
were taxable only at the domicil of the owner and therefore
were not property within the jurisdiction of the State of Illinois. This court, speaking by !fr. Justice Field, without considering the validity of the objections to the tax, held that the
bill could not be maintained, saying : "Assuming the tax -to

OCTOBER

TERN, 1898.

Opinion of the Court.

be illegal and void, we do not think any ground is presented
by the bill, justifying the interposition of a court of equity to
enjoin its collection. The illegality of the tax and the threatened sale of the shares for its payment constitute of themselves alone no ground for such interposition. There must be
some special circumstances attending a threatened injury of
this kind, distinguishing. it from a common trespass, and
bringing the case under some recognized head of equity jurisdiction, before the preventive remedy of injunction can be invoked. It is upon taxation that the several States chiefly rely
to obtain the means to carry on their respective governments,
and it is of the utmost importance to all of them that the modes
adopted to enforce the taxes levied should be interfered with
as little as possible. Any delay in the proceedings of the
officers, upon whom the duty is devolved of collecting the
taxes, may derange the operations of the government, and
thereby cause serious detriment to the public. No court of
equity will, therefore, allow its injunction to issue to restrain
their action, except where it may be necessary to protect the
rights of the citizen whose property is taxed, and he has no
adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of the law." 11
Wall. 109, 110. "The party of whom an illegal tax is collected has ordinarily ample remedy, either by action against
the officer making the collection or the body to whom the tax
is paid. Here such remedy existed. If the tax was illegal,
the plaintiff protesting against its enforcement might have
had his action, after it was paid, against the officer or the city to
recover back the money, or he might have prosecutbd either
for his damages. No irreparable injury would have followed
to him from its collection. Nor would he have been compelled to resort to a multiplicity of suits to determine his rights.
His entire claim might have been enmbraced in a single action."
11 Wall. 112.
In the State Railroad Tax cases, this court, in a careful
and thorough opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Miller, stated
that "it has been repeatedly decided that neither the mere illegality of the tax complained of, nor its injustice nor irregularity, of themselves, give the right td an injunction in a

PITTSBURGH &c. R'Y v. BOARD OF PUB. WORKS.

39

Opinion of the Court.

court of equity;" referred to section 322- of the Revised Statutes, which provides that "no suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any tax shall be maintained
in any court;" and said that "though this was intended to
apply alone to taxes levied by the United States, it shows the
sense of Congres of the evils to be feared if courts of justice
could, in any case, interfere with the process of collecting the
taxes on which the government depends for its continued existence." The court then quoted from lDows v. Chicago, and
Hfannewikle v. Georgetown,.above cited, and proceeded as follows: "We do not propose to lay down in these cases any
absolute limitation of the powers of a court of equity in restraining the collection of illegal taxes. But we may say that.
in addition to illegality, hardship or irregularity, the case
must be brought within some of the recognized foundations of
equitable jurisdiction; and that mere errors or excess in valuation, or hardship or injustice of the law, or any grievance
which can be remedied by a suit at law, either before or after
payment of taxes, will not justify a court of equity to interpose by injunction to stay collection of a tax. One of the
reasons why a court should not thus interfere, as it would in
any transaction between individuals, is that it has no power
to apportidn the tax or to make a new assessment, or to direct
another to be made by the proper officers of the State. These
officers, and the manner in which they shall exercise their
functions, are wholly beyond the power of the court when so
gcting. The levy-of taxes is not a judicial function. Its exercise, by the constitutions of all the States, and by the theory
of our English origin, is exclusively legislative. A court of
equity is, therefore, hampered in the exercise of its jurisdiction
by the necessity of enjoining the tax complained of, in whole
or in part, without any power of doing complete justice by
making, or causing to be made, a new assessment on any principle it may decide to be the right one. In this manner, it
may, by erjoining the levy, enable the cotnplainant to escape
wholly the tax for the period of time complained of, though
it be obvious that he ought to pay a tax if imposed in the
proper manner." 92 U. S. 613-615.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

1.ailway Co. v. Cheyenne, in which the
In Union Paci
Union Pacific Railway Company obtained an injunction
against the levy of a, tax by the city of Cheyenne, the facts
were peculiar. The plaintiff, owning many lots of land in
that city, had paid a tax assessed on all its property by a board
of equalization under a general statute of the Territory of
Wyoming, and had also been taxed by the city of Cheyenne
under provisions of its charter which had been repealed by
that statute; and the bill showed, as stated in the opinion,
that the levy complained of "would involve the plaintiff in a
multiplicity of suits as to the title of lots laid out and being
sold; would prevent their sale; and would cloud the title to
all its realestate." 113 U. S. 526, 527.
In Shelton v. Platt,139 U. S. 591, the president in behalf
of himself and other members of an express company, a joint
stock-company of the State of New York, filed a bill in'equity
in a Circuit Court of the United States in Tennessee to restrain the collection of a license tax upon the company under
a statute of the State of Tennessee, alleged to be contrary to
the Constitution of the United States. The bill averred that
the comptroller had issued a warrant of distress to a sheriff to
collect such taxes fot two years, the sheriff had levied or was
about to levy the warrant on the property of the company,
and the comptroller was about to issue a like warrant to collect the tax for a third year; that the property of the company in Tennessee was employed in interstate commerce in
the express business, and was necessary to the conduct of it;
and that the seizure by the sheriff would greatly embarrass
the company in the conduct of that business and subject it to
heavy loss and damage, and the public served by it to great
loss and inconvenience. This court-held that, even if th6 stat-.
ute was unconstitutional and the tax void, the bill could not
be maintained, and, speaking by the Chief Justicb, said: "The
trespass involved in the levy. of the distress warrant was not
shown to be continuous, destructive, inflictive of injury, incapable of being measured in money, or committed by irresponsible persons. So far as appeared, complete compensation for
the resulting injury could have been had by recovery of dam-

PITTSBURGH &c. RIY v. BOARD OF PUB. WORKS. 41
Opinion of the Court.

ages in an action at law. There was no allegation of inability
on the part of the express company to pay the amount of the
taxes claimed, nor any averment showing that the seizure and
sale of the particular property which might be levied on would
subject it to loss, damage and inconvenience which would be
in their nature irremediable." The court went on to say that
another statute of the State (which had been adjudged
by this court in Tennessee v. Sheed, 96 U. S. 69, to afford a
simple and effective remedy) provided that where an officer
charged by law with the collection of a tax took any steps to
collect it, a party conceiving it to be unjust or illegal might
pay it under protest and sue the officer to recover it back, and
should have no other remedy by injunction or otherwise. The
court observed that "legislation of this character has been
called for by the embarrassments resulting from the improvident employment of the writ of injunction in arresting the
collection of the public revenue; and, even in its absence, the
strong arm of the court of chancery ought not to be interposed
in that direction, except where resort to that court is grounded
upon the settled principles which govern its jurisdiction;"
and that the jurisdiction exercised by the courts of the United
States to restrain by injunction the collection of a tax wholly
illegal and void had always been rested on other grounds than
merely the unconstitutionality of the tax. 139 U. S. 596-598.
In the light of these decisions, we proceed to an examination
of the provisions of the Code of WestVirginia of 1891, c. 29, § 67,
under which the tax upon the plaintiff's bridge was assessed.
That section requires every corporation, owning or operating a railroad wholly or partly within the State, to make,
through its principal officers, to the auditor of the State,
on or before the 1st of April in each year, a return in writing,
under oath, showing, among other things, the following: 1st.
The whole number of its miles of railroad within the State.
2d. If the railroad is partly within and partly without the
State, the whole number of miles within, and of those without
the State, including all its branches. 3d. "Its railroad track
in each county in this State through 'which it runs, giving
the whole number of miles of road in the county, including the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

track and. its branches, and kide and: second tracks, switches
and turnouts therein; and the fair cash value per mile of such
railroad in each county, including in such valuation such main
track, branches, side and second tracks, switches and turnouts."
4th. All its rolling stock, and the fair cash value thereof, distinguishing between what is used wholly within the State, and
what is used partly within and partly without the State, and
the proportionate value of the latter, according to the time used
and the number of miles run thereby in and out of the State;
"and the proportional cash value thereof to each county in
this State through which such railroad runs." 5th. "Its depots, station houses, freight houses, machine and repair shops
and machinery therein, and all other buildings, structures and
appendages connected thereto or used therewith, together
with all other real estate, other than its railroad track, *owned
or used by it'in connection with its railroad, and not otherwise taxed, including telegraph lines owned or used by it;
and the faii cash value of all buildings and structures, and all
machinery and appendages, and of each parcel of such real
estate, including such telegraph line, and the cash value
thereof in each county in this State in which it is located."
The return made by the railroad" company to the auditor is
to be laid by.him, as soon as practicable, before the board of
public works. If the return is satisfactory to the board, the
board shall approve it, and, by an order entered upon its
records, direct the auditor to assess the property of the company with taxes, and he shall assess it as afterwards provided.
But if the return is not satisfactory, the board is authorized
to proceed, in such manner as it may deem best, to obtain the
information required to be furnished .by the return; and may
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of
papers; and is directed, as soon as possible after having piro
cured the necessary information, to assess and fix the fair
cash value of all the property required to be returned, in
each county through which the railroad runs; and, in ascertaining such value, to consider the return, and all the evidence and information that it has been able to procure, and
all such as may be offered by the railroad company.

PITTSBURGH &c. R'Y v. BOARD OF PUB. WORKS. 4Opinion of the Court.

The legislature e-yidently intended that the annual return
should include all the real estate owned or used by the railroad company in connection with its railroad within the State.
The plaintiff's bridge across the Ohio River'between the States
of West Virginia and Ohio was real estate. It was a- building or structure," within the proper meaning of the words.
Bridge Pr'oprietorsv. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 147; Whitall
v. Gloucester Freekolders, 11 Vroom (40 N.J. Law), 302, 305.
And it had been declared by Congress to be "a lawful structure." Act of July 14, 1862, c. 167; 12 Stat. 569. The fact
that the bridge was an instrument of interstate commerce did
not exempt so much of it as was within West Virginia from
taxation by the State. Eendbrson Bridge Co. v. _Eenderson,
141 U. S. 679.
According to the facts alleged in the bill, and admitted by.
the demurrer, the plaintiff has been assessed by the board of
public works one sum upon the whole length of its railroad
track within the State, and another sum upon that part of
the bridge within the State, as a separate structure.
The plaintiff alleged in the bill that its return included,, in
the number of miles of its main track, so much of the bridge
as lay within the State; and contended that the bridge was
included in "its railroad track," within the meaning of the
third subdivision of the section of the code, above quoted,
and therefore should have been assessed only as so many feet
of the railroad. But the return does not mention the bridge;
and, if it was included in the term "railroad track" in that
subdivision, the increased value of the track by reason of the
bridge might properly be taken into consideration in estimating the value of the railroad track, and the assessment of
the track and the bridge separately would seem to be a difference of form rather than of substance. Pittsburgh&t. Railway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 429;- Robertson v. Anderson,
57 Iowa, 165.
If the bridge was not covered by the third subdivision, it
was certainly included in the fifth. This subdivision begins
by designating "depots, station houses, freight houses; machine
and repair shops and machinery therein, and-all other build-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ings, structures and appendages connected thereto or used
therewith."

It was argued that the words "thereto"

and

"therewith," in this sentence, referred to the same antecedent
as the previous word "therein ;" and that "therein" referred
to depots, station houses, freight houses, machine and repair
imust be
shops, and therefore "thereto" and "therewith"
equally restricted. But if a strictly grammatical construction should be adopted, it may well be doubted whether "machinery therein" related to anything but machine and repair
shops; and it can hardly have been the intention of the legislature to limit the words "buildings, structures and appendages connected thereto or used therewith" to those connected
or used with such shops only. If the bridge is not a "building
or structure," within the meaning of those words, as here used,
it certainly (if not part of the "railroad track," under the
third subdivision,) comes within the words next following,
"together with all 6ther real estate, other than its railroad
track, owned or used by it in connection with its railroad."
By a clause near the end of the same section, it is provided
that "all buildings and real estate owned by such company,
and used or occupied for any purpose not immediately connected with its railroad," are to be taxed like similar property
of individuals.
The same section further provides that the decision made
by the board of public works shall be final, unless the railroad
company, within thirty days after such decision comes to its
knowledge, appeals (which it is expressly authorized, by the
statute to do) from the decision, as to the assessment and
valuation made in each county through whibh the railroad
runs, to the circuit court of that county. The appeal is to
have precedence over all other cases, and is to be tried as
soon as possible after it is entered. That court, on such
appeal, is to hear all legal evidence offered by the appellant.,
or by the State, county, district or municipal corporation,
and, if satisfied that the valuation as fixed by the board of
pub.lic works is correct, to confirm the same; but, if satisfied that such valuation is too high or too low, to correct
it, and to ascertain and fix- the true value of the property

PITTSBURGH &c. R'Y v. BOARD OF PUB. WORKS. 45
Opinion of the Court.

according to the facts proved, and certify such value to the
auditor.
This provision for a review and correction, by the circuit
court of the county, of the assessment made by the board of
public works affords a convenient and adequate remedy for
any error in the taxation, and has been held by the highest
court of the State to be in accordance with its constitution.
T
leeling.Bridge Railway v. Paull,39 West Virginia, 142.
That court has often had occasion to inquire how far the
action of the circuit court of the county, in this respect, is administrative only, and how far it may be considered as judicial
in its nature. Pittsburgh c. Railway v. Board of Public
Morks, 28 West Virginia, 264:; Charleston& Southside BHdge
Co. v. Hanawha County Cour4.41 West Virginia, 658; State
v. South Penn Co., 42 West Virginia, 80. See also Ujpshur,
County v. Rich, 135 U. S. 467.
But it is not important, in this case, to pursue that course
of inquiry; since, in matters of taxation, it is sufficient that
the party assessed should have an opportunity to be heard,
either before a judicial tribunal, or before a board of assessment, at some stage of the proceedings. Kelly v. Pittsburgh,
104 U. S. 78 ; Pittsburgh &c. Rail-way v. Backus, 154 U. S.
421.
Even if, therefore, no previous notice of the hearing before
the board of public works was required by the statute, or was
in fact given to this plaintiff, (which is by no means clear,) yet
the notice of its decision, with the right to appeal therefrom
to the circuit court of the county, and there to be heard and
to offer evidence, before the valuation of its property for taxation was finally fixed, afforded the plaintiff all the notice to
which it was entitled.
The railroad bridge in question being liable to assessment
under section 67, it is unnecessary, for the purposes of this
case, to determine whether it should be treated as "railroad
track," or as a "building or structure," or as "other real estate,
owned or used in connection with the railroad." In any view,
its assessment and valuation by the board of public works, of
which the plaintiff complains, was subject to review by the

46

" "

46OTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

circuit court of the county upon an appeal seasonably taken
by the railroad company.
The section, indeed, also provides that, when the return
made to -the auditor is satisfactory to the board of public
works, or when an assessment is made by that board, the
auditor shall immediately certify, to the county court of each
county through which the railroad runs, the value of the property of the railroad company therein, as valued and assessed as
aforesaid; that that court shall apportion that value among the
districts, school districts and municipal corporations through
which the railroad runs; and that the clerk of that
court,
within thirty days after it has laid the 'county and district
levies, shall certify to the auditor the apportionment so made;
that the recording officer of each district or municipal corporation through which the road runs shall, within thirty days
after a levy is laid therein, certify to the auditor the amount
levied; and that, if any such officer fails to do so, the auditor
may obtain the rate of taxation from the land books in his
office or from any other source.
But the provision directing the auditor to immediately certify the assessment made by the board of public works to the
county court of each, county must be construed as subordinate
to and controlled by the next preceding provision giving the
right of appeal from the board of public works to the circuit
court of the county - as clearly appears from the next succeeding provision, by which it is after the value of the property of
the railroad company has been "fixed by the board of public
works, or'by the circuit court on appeal as aforesaid," that
the auditor is directed to assess and charge the property of
the company "1with the taxes properly chargeable thereon,"
in a book to be kept by him for that purpose.
The statute also contains a provision that "no injunction
shall be awarded by any court or judge to restrain the collection of the taxes, or any part of them, so assessed, except upon
the ground that the assessment thereof was in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, 'or of this State, or that the
same were fraudulently assessed, or that there was a mistake
made by the auditor ia the amount of taxes properly charge-

PITTSBURGH &c. R'Y v. BOARD OF PUB. WORKS.

47

Opinion of the Court.

able on the property of said corporation or company; and in
the latter case no such injunction shall be awarded unless
application be first made to the auditor to correct the mistake
claimed, and the auditor shall refuse to do so, which facts shall
be stated in the bill." While this provision cannot, of course;
bind the courts of the United States, it is nearly in accord with
the rule governing the exercise of the jurisdiction in equity of
those courts, as established by the decisions cited at the beginning of this opinion.
The statute further makes it the duty of the auditor, "as
soon as possible after he completes the said assessments," to
make out and transmit to the railroad company "a statement
of all taxes and levies so charged;" and the duty of the railroad company "so assessed and charged" to pay "the whole
amount of such taxes and levies upon its property" by the
20th of January "next after the assessment thereof;" and if
the company does not pay "such taxes and levies" by that
day, the auditor is directed to add ten per cent to the amount
thereof to pay the expenses of collecting them, and to certify
to the sheriff of each county "the amount of such taxes and
levies assessed within his county."
In the present case, the bill does not allege that there was
any fraud in the assessment; or that the defendants made any
attempt to interfere with the plaintiff's ownership or control
of its real estate; or that the plaintiff either made any application to the auditor to correct any supposed mistake in the
assessment, or took any appeal from the decision of the board
of public works to the circuit court of the county; or that,
within the thirty days allowed for such an appeal, any attempt
was made by the defendants, either to charge the plaintiff
with the penalty of ten per cent for delay in payment of the
taxes, or to levy upon its property for non-payment of them.
On the contrary, the bill would appear to have been studiously framed to avoid making any such allegation. The bill,
which was sworn to on March 18, 1895, alleged that on January 19, 1895, (sixty days before,) the plaintiff received notice
from the auditor of the decision of the board of public works;
day of 1895" (which might be any day
that "on the -

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

before the bill was sworn to) the auditor added the ten per
cent and certified to the sheriff the amount of the tax assessed
with that addition; and that the sheriff." since said date" had
demanded payment of both sums from the plaintiff; and the
affidavit filed with the bill on March 26, 1895, shows that the
sheriff's levy on one of the plaintiff's engines was mnade after
the bill was sworn to.
The only reasonable inference from these vague allegations
of the bill is that the auditor waited for more than thirty days,
after giving the plaintiff notice of the decision of the board of
public works, in order to afford full opportunity for an appeal
from that decision; and that no penalty was imposed for
delay in payment of the taxes, nor any active measure taken
to enforce them, until it had become clear that the plaintiff
did not intend to take such an appeal.
The plaintiff, upon its own showing, having made no attempt
tb avail itself of the adequate remedies provided by the statute
of the State for the review of the assessment complained of,
is not entitled to maintain this bill.
-Decreeafflrmed.
UNITED STATES v. WARDWELL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. M8.Argued October 20, 1898. -Decided

November 28, 1898.

Three cheques were drawn in June, 1869, by authorized army officers upon
the Assistant Treasurer of the United States in New York, in favor of
Wardwell and in payment of his lawful claims against the United States.
These cheques, while in his possession, were lost or destroyed, presumably in a depredation made on his house by hostile Indians in 1872. Not
having been presented for payment, the amount of these cheques was
covered into the Treasury in pursuance of the statutes of the United
States, and was carried to the account of "outstanding liabilities."
Wardwell having died, his adminitratrix applied to the Treasury for
payment of the cheques by the issue of.Treasury warrants, under the
authority conferred by Rev. Stat. §§ 306, 307, 808. This payment being
refused, this suit was brought in the Court of Claims in April, 1896, and
the statute of limitations was set up as a defence. Held, that the promise by the Government contained in the statute to hold money so paid
into the Treasury was a continuing promise available to plaintiff at any

