NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY

.

YERS.

589

Syllabus.

By the acts of 1839 and 1852 an appeal was given, not to
the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, but to the
chief judge or one of the assistant judges thereof, who was
thus called on to act as a special judicial tribunal. The competency of Congress to make use of such an instrumentality
or to create such a tribunal in the attainment of the ends of
the Patent Office seems never to have been questioned, and
we think could not have been successfully. The nature of
the thing to be done being judicial, Congress had power to
provide for judicial interference through a special tribunal,
United Statem v. Coe, 155 U. S. 16; and afortiori existing
courts of competent jurisdiction might be availed of.
We agree that it is of vital importance that the line of demarcation between the three great departments of government should be observed, and that each should be limited to
the exercise of its appropriate powers, but in the matter of
this appeal we find no such encroachment of one department
on the domain of another as to justify us in holding the act
in question unconstitutional.

Judgment a firmed.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY
MYERS.

COMPANY

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 214. Argued October 21, 1898. -Decided

January 28, 1899.

This bill was filed to enjoin the enforcement of a tax, imposed under the
laws of Montana, upon lands granted by Congress by the act of July 2,
1864, c. 217, to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and acquired by
the appellant on the reorganization of the company. There was a controversy as to the character of the lands taxed-whether mineral or
non-mineral. The lands have neVer been patented or certified to the
company; the company claimed that-'it.had only a potential interest
therein; and the relief sought was that the lands be adjudged not subject to such assessment and taxation until the issue of patents therefor
by the United States. It was stipulated in the court below that the sole

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
question desired to be submitted was, whether the lands described in the
bill were subject to taxation under the laws of the United States and of
the State of Montana. That court sustained the taxation. In this court
the position of the company was stated by its counsel as follows: "The
question for decision is not whether the railway company has any interest in its grant, or in the lands in question, which may be subjected to
some form of taxation; but whether the lands themselves Are taxable:
whether the present assessment which is on the lands themselves can be
sustained. We may well concede that the taxing power is broad enough
to reach in some form the interest of the railway company in its grant.
That interest becomes confessedly a vested interest upon construction
of the road. It then becomes property and may well be held subject to
some form of taxation. But here the legislature authorizes a tax upon,
and the assessor makes an assessment upon, the land: itself by specific
description: the whole legal title to each parcel being specifically and
separately assessed. When the plain fact is, that neither the assessor,
or the railway company can place its hand on a single specific parcel and
say Whether it belongs to the company or to the United States," Held,
that, although the question submitted by stipulation had been somewhat
changed in form, the same result must be reached, and ;he judgment of
the court below be affirmed.

Tnis suit involves the validity of a tax levied under the laws
of the State of Montana against certain lands lying within the
grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, made by
the act of Congress, approved Jhly 2, 1864, c. 217. 13 Star.
365.
It was brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Montana by the receivers of the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, a Federal corporation, and the
receivers were appointed by a decree of the Federal court.
The suit proceeded in the Circuit Court
in the name of said
receivers to a hearing on demurrer and to a submission of the
case upon bill, answer and stipulated facts. On the twelfth
of November, 1896, it was stipulated and represented to the
court that the Northern Pacific Railway Company had purchased the property in question pending the litigation, and it
was agreed and thereupon ordered by the court that the NorthernPacific Railway Company be substituted as plaintiff in
place of the receivers. Thereupon a decree was passed on the
sixteenth day of December in favor of the complainant, enjoining the enforcement and collection of the taxes. From this

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. MYERS.

591

Statement of the Case.

decree the defendant William Myers, county treasurer, appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which r~versed the
decree of the Circuit Court. Myer8 v. Northern Pao f Railway, 48 U. S. App. 620. The plaintiff railway company takes
this appeal.
It was agreed "that the sole question desired to be submitted upon the pleadings, and this stipulation, is whether the
lands described in the bill were subject to taxation under the
laws of the United States and of the State of Montana."
This being the only question submitted, the allegatidns of the
pleadings and statements of the stipulation not bearing on
that question need not be stated; and it is sufficient to note
that the bill and stipulation showed the incorporation of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the act of July 2,
1864 ; its power to construct a railroad from Lake Superior to
Puget Sound; the grant of land to it by section 3, which -is
quoted hereafter; the performance by the railroad company
of all the conditions of the grant, both provisional and final,
including the construction of the road and its acceptance by
the United States; and the freedom of the lands from preemption claims and rights.
Prior to the attempted assessments and tax levies assailed,
the lands were surveyed by the United States or its authority,
and were reported by the surveyors making such surveys to
be agricultural lands, non-mineral in character; and the company prepared, in the manner prescribed by the Secretary of
the Interior, lists of the lands claimed by it under the grant,
including the lands in controversy, and filed them inthe proper
district land office, paying the fees thereon, and attached to
each of said lists was an affidavit of the land commissioner of
the railroad company, in which it was affirmed "that the
foregoing list of lands which I hereby select is a correct list
of a portion of the public lands claimed by said Northern
Pacific Railroad Company as enuring to the said company"
under its grant by the act of Congress of July 2, and a joint
resolution approved May 31, 1870, and "that the said lands
are vacant, unappropriated, and are not interdicted mineral or
reserved lands, and are of the character contemplated by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

grant, being within the limit of forty miles on each side of the
being a portion
line of route for a continuous distance of -,
of said railroad, comof said lands. for a section of -miles
mencing at -

and ending at

."

The said lists were duly filed and their accuracy tested by
the district land officers and so certified, and it was also certified that the filing was allowed; that -they. were surveyed
public lands within'the limits of the grant, "and that the same
are not or is any part thereof returned and denominated as mineral land. or lands."- It was also certified that no claims were
on file against the lands and that the fees were paid.
The lists were transmitted to the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office.
The stipulation shows the manner of examination in the land
office, and "that such lands are not patented or certified to the
company until clear lists are approved by the Secretary."
And the lists have not yet been examined or passed or patented
to the company, and that the mineral pr non-mineral character
is' under investigation under the provisions of the act of Congress of February 26, 1895, c. 131. 28 Stat. 683.
The company. has such right, title, interest and property in
the lands as was conferred upon it by the act of July, 1864,
and the act and joint resolutions amendatory thereof, and acquired by a compliance with their terms.
One Thomas G. Miller, a citizen of Montana, transmitted to
the Secretary of the Interior a letter signed by Thomas G.
Miller as chairman citizens' executive committee, declaring
that the selections of the railroad company embraced thousands of recorded mineral claims and extensive mining properties being prospected, developed and worked, "and in view
of the irreparable injury which would be caused to the people
and State of Montana by the premature or unlawful conveyance of title to such lands to the railroad company, I beg leave
to formally file the following requests:
"That-the Commissioner of the General Land Office be directed to suspend the patenting of lands in Montana to the
Northern Pacific R. R. Company until the mineral or non-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. MYERS.

593

Statement of the Case.

mineral character of the lands selected by said company shall
have been investigated and definitely ascertained and adjudicated by proper proceedings and until mineral claimants and
the State of Montana shall have opportunity to be heard before the department on questions of law and fact.
"2. That the Commissioner be directed to ca"use to be noted
on the lists of the company's selections the.tracts and townships alleged to be mineral in character by affidavits now, on
file in the Department of the Interior.
"Very respectfully,
11THOMAS G. MfLLE ,
"Chairman Citizens' Executive Committee."
November 4, 1889, th6 Secretary of the Interior referred
said letter to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
with the following indorsement: "Referred to Commissioner
of Gen'l Land Office, with approval of within requests and direction to comply thereunto. Please notify me when done.
Nov. 4, '89. J. W. Noble, Sec'y."
This order was not revoked prior to 1895.
The company and its receivers have been diligent to prosecute the identification of the lands, and the defendant, conceding this, denies that they have not been or are not fully
defined and identified as part of the grant to the company.
Three commissioners were appointed as provided in the act
of February 26, 1895, and commenced the examination and
classification of said lands during the year 1895, and have
classified certain of the lands as mineral, a list.of which is
inserted, and that the remainder of the lands have not been
examined and classified. And it was admitted that 6ther
lands, a list of which is given, are in contest in the Interior
Department, and that a certain section of land was decided
in 1894, but subsequent to the assessment, to be mineral, and
excepted from the grant, and that there were other lands to
which there were claims, but which were disputed by the
company, and that some contests were decided in favor of
the company.
In the year 1894 the assessor of Jefferson County, Montana,
voL. cI.xxir-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

proceeded to and did assess the lands described in the complaint herein, in the manner and form prescribed by law, and
described and included said lands in the assessment book of
said county of Jefferson for said year.
The receivers appeared before the board: of equalization
and objected to the assessment, and the board refused to
strike the lands from the assessment roll, and the taxes were
assessed and levied against the lands with the other lands of
the county; that the tax proceedings were in manner and
form in all respects as required by the laws of Montana; that
the taxes amounted to $3000, and that the treasurer of the
county was proceeding to collect the same by sale and would
so collect the same if not enjoined and restrained by the order
of the court.
As a ground of relief by injunction the bill alleges: " And
your orators show that said tax levies cloud the title to said
described lands and impair the value thereof as an asset in
the hands of your orators; that said certificates and deeds
when issued, as your orators believe and show they will be,
will constitute further clouds upon the title thereto. That if
said lands be sold a multiplicity of suits will be necessary
to quiet the title thereto and to remove the clouds thereby
created."
Among the things which were asked to be adjudged at the
final hearing were:
"1. That.the lands described in Schedule.' A' hereunto annexed, and each. and all thereof, *ere not subject to assessment and taxation by said county of Jefferson or State of
Montana for the year 189-, and until the United States shall
issue to said railroad company patents therefor.
"2. That it may be ordered, adjudged and decreed that
said pretended and attempted 'assessments and tax levies
were and are null and void, and constitute a ,cloud upon the
title to said described lands."
Section three of the act of July 2, 1864, is as follows:
1"That there be, and hereby is, granted to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, its successors and assigns, for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of said railroad and

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. MYERS.

595

Statement of the Case.

telegraph line to the Pacific Coast,
every alternate
section of public land, not mineral, designated by' odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate sections per mile, on
each side of said railroad line, as said company may Vdopt,.
through the Territories of the United States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side of said railroad
whenever it passes through any State, and whenever on the
line thereof, the United States have full title, not reserved,
sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption or other claims or rights at the time the' line of said
road is definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office
of the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and whenever, prior to said time, any of said sections or parts of sebtions shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied, by
homestead settlers, or predmpted or otherwise disposed of,
other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by odd numbers, not more than
ten miles beyond the limits of said alternate -sections.
..
Provided, further, that all mineral lands be, and. the same are
hereby, excluded from the operation in this act, and in lieu
thereof a like quantity of unoccupied and unappropriated
agricultural lands, in odd numbered sections, nearest to the
line of said road, may be selected as above provided; and
further provided, that the word ' mineral,' when it occurs in
this act, shall not be held to include iron or coal."
Section four provides for the issuing of patents on the completion and acceptance of each twenty-five consecutive miles
of said railroad and telegraph line.
The assignment of errors is as follows:
"The said court held that the lands described in the bill of
complaint in said action were subject to taxation, although it
appears from the pleadings and stipulation in said cause: .
"(a.) That said lands were at the time of the assessments
and tax levies complained of unpatented, and were involved
in contests pending before the Interior Department over questions of fact between said railway company and various settlers and the United States.

OCTOBER" TERYI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"(b.) Although it further appears from the pleadings and
stipulation in said cause that said lands were not at the time
of the assessment and tax levies complained of, identified and
defined as lands passing under the act of Congress approved
July 2, 1864, so as to be segregated from the public lands of
the United States.
"(c.) Although it further appears from the pleadings andstipulations in said cause that the grantee, under the act of
Congress approved July 2, 1864, entitled ' An act granting
lands to aid in the construction of a railroad-and telegraph
line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound, on the.Pacific Coast,
by the northern route,' was not entitled to patents for said
lands at the time of the assessment and tax levies complained of.
"(d.) Although it appears from the pIeadings and stipulatiort in said cause that the United States possessed at the time
of the assessment and tax levies complained of an interest in
'said lands, and each and all thereof, and that the said lands
were subject to exploration for minerals as public lands of the
United States.
"The said court failed and refused to hold that the lands
described in the complaint were not at the time of the assessment and tax levy complained of subject to assessment or taxation.
"The said cofirt entered an order reversing the decree of
the United States Circuit Court for the District of Montana,
and remanded said cause with an order to the United States
Circuit Court for the District of Montana to enter a decree in
favor of the above-named appellant."
2fr. C. TT Bunn and .A1'. A. B. Browne for appellant.
, .A. T'. Britton was on their -brief.
-Mr. C. B. NYolan, Attorney General of the State of Montana,
for appellee.
MR.JusTicE McKNNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The averments in the bill of complaint and the stipulation

NORTHERN PAOIFIC RAILWAY v. MYERS.

597

Opinion of the Court.

of facts show a controversy between the railroad company
and the Interior Department as to the character of the lands,
whether mineral or non-mineral, taxed by the State of Montana, and the company avers "that at the time of said attempted assessments and tax levies said lands . . . had
not been and are not now certified or patented to said railroad company, and the said lands were not ascertained or determined to be a part of the lands granted to said company,
.ior were they segregated from the public lands of the United
States, and the said railroad company had and has but a
yotential interest therein." And part of the relief prayed for
was "that thie lands be adjudged not subject to assessment
and taxation by said county of Jefferson or by the State of
Montana for the year 1894, and until the United States shall
issue to said railroad company patents therefor."
- similar claim was denied by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit in V7orthern Paciftc Railroadv. Wright,
7 U. S. App. 502, and by this court in Central Pacif# Railroad
v. Nievada, 162 U. S.512. It is, however, now conceded that
the railroad has a taxable interest, counsel for appellant saying:
"The question for decision is not whether the railway company has any interest in its grant, or in the lands in question,
which may be subjected to some form of taxation; but whether
the lands themeelves are taxable; whether the present assessment which is on the lands themselves can be sustained. We
may well concede that the taxing power is broad enough to
reach in some form the interest of the railway company in its
grant; that interest becomes confessedly a vested interest
upon construction of the road. It then becomes property, and
may well be held subject to some form of taxation.
"But here the legislature authorizes a tax upon, and the
assessor makes an assessment upon, the land itself by specific
description; the whole legal title to each parcel being specifically and separately assessed. When the plain fact is, that
neither the assessor or the railway company can place its hand
on a single specific parcel and say whether it belongs to the
company or to the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The question which was submitted therefore by the stipulation, namely, "whether the lands described in the bill were
subject to taxation under the laws of the United States and of
the Stat6 of Montana," if not evaded by the concession of appellant, has changed its form; but even in the new form it
seems to have the same foundation as the contention rejected
in the Nevada case, 8upra, that because title may not attach
to some of the lands it does not attach as to any. Whether
it has such foundation we will consider.
In Railway Company v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603; Railway
-company v. -McShane, 22 Wall. 444, and .Yorithern Pacific
Railroad Company v. Traill County, 115 U. S. 600, it was
decided that lands sold by the United States might be taxed
before they had parted with the legal title by issuing a patent;
bfrt this principle, it was said, must be understood to be applicable only to cases where the right to the patent was complete,
and the equitable title was fully vested in the party without
anything more to be paid or any act to be done going to the
foundation of his right. In the first case the court said two
acts remained to be done which might wholly defeat the right
to the patent: (1) the payment of the cost of surveying; (2) a
right of pregmption which would accrue if the company did
not dispose of the lands within a certain time. The dependency of the right of taxation on the first condition was affirmed with the principle announced in Railway Company v.
McShane. The dependency of the right of taxation on the
second ground was expressly overruled.
Embarrassment to the title of the United States by a sale
of the land for taxes seems to have been the concern and basis
of those cases. This embarrassment was relieved, and Congress permitted taxation by the act of July 10, 1886, c. 764, 24
Stat. 143. By that act it is provided: "That no lands granted
to any railroad corporation by any act of Congress shall be
exempt from taxation by States, Territories and municipal
corporations on account of the lien of the United States upon
the same for the costs of surveying, selecting and conveying
the same, or because no patent has been issued therefor; but
this provision shall not apply to lands unsurveyed: Provided,

NORTHERN PACIFIO RAILWAY v. MYERS.

-599

Opinion of the Court.

That any such land sold for taxes shall be taken by the purchaser subject 'to the lien for costs of surveying, selecting and
conveying, to be paid in such manner by the purchaser as the
Secretary of the Interior may by rule provide, and to all liens
of the United States, all mortgages of the United States and
all rights of the United States in respect to such lands: Provided further, That this act shall apply only to lands situated
opposite to and coterminous with completed portions of said
roads and in'organized counties: Providedfurther,That at
any sale of lands under the provisions of this act the United
States may become the preferred purchaser, and in such case
the land sold shall be restored to the public domain and disposed of as provided by the laws relating thereto."
This act was interpreted in CentraZ Pacifi Railroad Co.
v. Nevada, supra. The lands involved were classified in the
opinion as follows: (1) those patented; (2) those unsurveyed;
(3) those surveyed but unpatented, upon which the cost of
surveying had been paid; and (4) like lands upon which the
cost of survey had not been paid. Applying the statute,
Mr. Justice Brown, speaking for the court, said: "The principal dispute is with regard to the fourth class. . . . In
view of the statute, it is difficult to see how these lands, which
are the very ones provided for by the statute, can escape taxation if the State chooses to tax them."
This case establishes that the State may tax the surveyed
lands, mineral or agricultural, within the place limits of the
grant, and there is nothing in the case nor its principle whichlimits the assessment to an interest less than the title; that
distinguishes the lands from a claim to them. The statute of
Nevada defined the term "real estate" to include "the ownership of, or claim to, or possession of, or right of possession to
any lands;" and the Supreme Court of the State had decided
that to constitute a possessory claim actual possession was
necessary, and, on this account, distinguished in some way
surveyed from unsurveyed lands. It was urged that the distinction was not justified, and that the necessity of actual possession applied alike to both kinds and exempted both kinds
from taxation, and heAice it was insisted there was nothing to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tax unless the title was taxed, and that this 'coutd hot be done
under the decisions of this court. To this contention the
opinion replied that how the interest of the railroad should
be defined was not'a Federal question, nor did inaptitude of
definition by the Supreme Court of the State or in the application of the definition raise a Federal question. "Taxation
of the lands by the State," it was said, "rested upon some
theory that the railroad had a taxable interest in them.
What that 'interest was does not concern us so long as it
appears that, so far as Congress is concerned, express authority was given to tax the lands."
If this case leaves us any concern it is only to inquire what
assessable interest passed by the grant. It is not necessary
to detail the cases in which. this court has held that railroad
land grants are in premsenti of land to be afterwards located.
Their principle reached the fullest effect and application in
Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241, 316, in which
it was held that the legal title passed by such grants as distinguished from merely equitable interests, and an action of
ejectment was sustained by a lessee of the Central Pacific
Railroad Company before patent was issued. But in Barden v. .Northern Pacfic R'ailroad, 154: U. S. 288, in a similar action recovery was denied to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company on the ground that mineral lands were
not conveyed by the grant to it, but were "specifically reserved to the United States and excepted from the operations
of the grant."
The accommodation of these cases is not difficult. In the
Barden case there was a concession that the land was mineral,
and there was an attempted recovery of valuable ores. In the
.Deseret case there was no such concession, and the primary
effect of the grant prevailed. In the .case at bar there is no
such concession, and the primary effect of the grant must prevail. There is no presumption of law of what kind of lands
the grant is composed. 'Upon its face, therefore, the relation
of the railroad to every part of it is the same, and on the
authority of Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, ejectment may be
brought for every part of it. The action, of course, may be

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. MYERS.

601

Opinion of the Court.

defeated, but it may prevail, and a title which may prevail
for the company in ejectment surely may be attributed to it
for taxation, to be defeated in the latter upon the same proof
or concession by which it would be defeated in the former.
An averment that there is a controversy about the character
of lands not yielded to, an expression of doubt about it not
acted on, is not sufficient. This view does not bring the railroad company to an unjust dilemma. The company has the
title or nothihg. In response to its obligations to the State,
it must say which. If it have the title to any of- the lands,
this title cannot be diminished to a claim, or an interest because it hag not or may not have title to others. If there is
Suppose,
uncertainty, it must be resolved by the railroad.
to use the language of counsel, "Neither the assessor or the
railway company can place its hand on a single specific parcel
and say whether it belongs to the company or to the United
States." We nevertheless say again, as we said by the Chief
Justice in Northern Pacific Railroad v. Patterson, 154 U. S.
130, 132, "If the legal or equitable title to the lands or any
of them was in the plaintiff, then it was liable for the
taxes on all or some of them, and the mere fact that the title
might be in controversy would not appear in itself to furnish sufficient reason why the plaintiff should not determine
whether the lands or some of them were worth paying taxes
on or not."
That the Barden case does not preclude state taxation of
the lands is also manifest from its expression.. Mr. Justice
Field, who delivered the opinion of the court, in answer to
the contention that its doctrine would have that effect, said :
"So also it is said that the States and Territories through
which the road passes would not be able to tax the property
of the company unless they could tax the whole property,
minerals as well as lands. We do not see why not. The
authority to tax the property granted to the company did not
give authority to tax the minerals which were not granted.
The property could be appraised without including any consideration of the minerals. The value, of the property, excluding the minerals, could be as well estimated as its value

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

including them. The property could be taxed for its value
of the extent of the title which is of the land."
The averment of the answer is that this was done; that the
lands were assessed and taxed for their value as agricultural
lands without including the minerals in them. The replication put this in issue but the stipulation of facts does not
explicitly notice it, but probably was intended to cover it by
the agreement that the assessment was made in the manner
and form required by the laws of Montana.
We are referred to the act of Congress of February 26,
1895, c. 131, entitled "An act to provide for the examination
and classification of certain mineral lands in the States of
Montana and Idaho," 28 Stat. 683, as strengthening the contention of appellants. We do not think it does. It was
passed after the time at which the validity of the assessment
complained of must be determined. Besides, it does not purport to define the rights of the railway company in any particular with which .we are now concerned. It furnishes the
Secretary of the Interior with another instrumentality - not
bringing the lands to a different judgment, but to an earlier
judgment.
Discovering no error in the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, it is
MR. JUsTICE BREwER, MR. JuSTIE SIRfAS, MR. JUSTICE
WHITE and MR. JusTiCE PEcxnAM dissented.

CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANOE
PANY v. SPIRATLEY.

COM-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE. OF TENNESSEE.
No. 183.

Submitted January 8, 1899. -Decided January80, 1899.

In a suit in a state court against a foreign corporation where no property
of the corporation is within the State, and the judgment sought is a personal one, It is material to ascertain whether the corporation is doing

