UNITED STATES v. HARSHA.
Statement of the Case.

It is urged that the statute is not made a condition upon
foreign corporations, but this view is not open to our acceptance. The Supreme Court of Missouri, exercising its function
of interpretation, decides that it is. But we do not care to
enter fully into the subject of conditions on corporations,
foreign or domestic. The statute is sustained on the grounds
that we have given.
. The other contentions of plaintiff in error we do not consider
it is necessary'to review.

Judgmen a~fimed.

_________

UNITED STATES v. IIARSHA.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
1o. 127. Submitted January 11, 1599. -Decided

January 23, 1899.

A judgment of a Circuit or District Court of the United States for the plaintiff in an action at law under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat.
505, is reviewable by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon writ of error.
The provision of the act of July 31, 1894, c. 174, ยง 2, 28 Stat. 162,,205, that
"1no person who holds an office, the salary or annual compensation of
which amounts to the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars, shall be
appointed to or hold any other office to which compensation is attached,"
does not, exproprio vigore, create a vacancy'in the office of clerk of a
Circuit Court of the United States, by reason of the fact that at the
time of its taking effect the then lawful incumbent of that office is also
holding the office of clerk of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
In the same circuit, having previously resigned the latter office, and his
resignation not having been accepted by the judges.

ON May 21, 1897, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit, upon a writ of error from that court to review
a judgment rendered by the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan in favor of Walter S. Harsha in an action brought by him against the United
States, under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, to-recover fees
as clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States for that
district, for services rendered during the first quarter of the

OCTOBER TERMIVI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

year 1895, certified to this court the following statement of
facts and questions of law:
"Walter S. Hiarsha was duly appointed clerk of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, June 6, 1882, took the oath of office and filed his official
bond in the sum of $20,000 on the same day, and is now and
has from that time until the present been continuously, under
said appointment by the judges of said court, and with their
continued assent and approval, acting as clerk of said court
under a bona fide claim of title to said office, no other person
having at any time made any claim of title thereto, nor has
his title been otherwise questioned than as hereafter stated.
"The said lHarsha is now, and has been continuously since
his appointment as clerk, a permanent resident of the city of
Detroit, in the Eastern District of]Michigan, where his official
duties as such clerk are to be performed, and has during the
whole of said time, from June 6, 1882, to the date hereof,
given his actual personal attention to such duties, and has not
at any time removed from said district.
"The accounts of Harsha as such clerk, for the first quarter
of the calendar year 1895, amounting to $482.90, were made,
presented, proved and allowed by the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, as provided by law; said accounts were for services actually rendered, and were correct, and were duly forwarded to the
Attorney General for examination under his supervision, as
provided by statute.
"The said Ilarsha was duly appointed clerk of the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, June 16,
1891, took his oath of office and filed his official bond in the
sum of $20,000 on the same day, and continued to perform
the duties of the office of clerk of. said court from June 16,
1891, aforesaid, to and including October 2, 1894, and-received
salary as such clerk at the rate of $3000 per annum for that
time.
"On February 241, 1894, Harsha presented to the judges of
said Court of Appeals his resignation as such clerk, which resignation-was accepted by said judges October 2, 189-4.

UNITED STATES v. RARSHA.
Statement of the Case.

"Upon the presentation at the Treasury Department.of the
said accounts so forwarded to the Attorney General, the
Comptroller of the Treasury, upon his construction of the act
of Congress of July 31, 1894, decided that a.vacancy occurred
in the office of said clerk of the Circuit Court of the United
States, beginning August 1, 1894, for the reason that after
that date ilarsha continued to hold the office of clerk of the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit,
the annual c6inpensation of which office was $3000, and that
such vacancy continued thereafter until the expiration of said
first quarter of the calendar year 1895, and, upon the ground
of such vacancy, disallowed the said accounts of petitioner as
clerk of the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern Distict of Michigan for the .said first quarter of the calendar
year 1895.
"This action was brought by Harsha, to recover his fees
earned as clerk of the Circuit Court, in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, under
the second section of the act of March 3, 1887, entitled 'An
act to provide for the bringing of suits against the Government of the United States;' and after making a finding of
facts and stating its conclusions of law, the District Court filed
the same, and entered judgment for the petitioner Harsha in
the sum of $482.90. The United States, by its attorney, then
applied to the District Judge, holding the District Court, for
the allowance of a writ of error from this court to the District
Court. The writ was allowed, and was issued by the clerk of.
this court to the District Court.
"The instruction of the Supreme Court is respectfully requested on certain questions of law arising on the foregoing
statement of facts as follows, to wit:
"First question. Can such a judgment rendered under the
act df March 3, 1887, in the Circuit or District Court, be
brought before this court for review in any other mode than
as provided in section 707 of the Revised Statutes for the
review by the Supreme Court of judgments of the Court of
Claims to wit, by appeal ?
"Second question. Did the act of July 31, 1894, above re-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ferred .to, exproprio vigore create a vacancy in the office of
clerk of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Michigan,
by reason of the fact that at the time of its taking effect the
then lawful incumbent of that office was also holding the
office of clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth
Circuit ?
"Third question. Does the general rule, that officers de
facto may not recover by suit compensation for services ren-.
dered as such, apply to a case in which the incumbent holds his
office by the continued assent and approval of the sole appointing power, under a bonafide claim of title to the office, when
no other person has at any time made any claim of title thereto,
and when the only defects in his title are a failure on the part
of the appointing power to make a formal reappointment and
a failure on the part of the incumbent formally to requalify
after a technical vacation of the office originally held by him
under a valid appointment and qualification?"
.Mr.
Assistant Attorney GeneralPradtand -Mr. E. C. Brandenburg for the United States.
EA&.
Edwin F. Conely for Harsha.

Mir. JusTcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit being an action at law under the act of March
3,
was,
Court
therein
the
District
of
c.
359,
the
judgment
1887,
as has been directly adjudged by this court, reviewable by the
Circuit Court of Appeals upon writ of error. 24 Stat. 505;
Chase v. Uinited States, 155 U. S.489; United States v. King,
164 U. S.703. The first question certified must therefore be
answered in the affirmative.
Air. Harsha was appointed and qualified as clerk of the Circuit Court on June 6, 1882, and has ever since performed all
his duties as such.
On June 16, 1891, he was appointed and qualified as clerk
of the Circuit Court of Appeals. On February 24, 1894, he
presented to the judges of that court his resignation of the

UNITED STATES v. HARSHA.
Opinion of the Court.

office of clerk thereof; and his resignation was accepted by
them on October 2, 1894.

From his appointment until the

acceptance of his resignation he performed all the duties and
received the salary of the clerk of that court.
In 1893, it was adjudged by th Circuit Court of Appeals,affirming a judgment of the Circuit Court, in an action brought
by Mr. Harsha against the United States for services as clerk
of the Circuit Court during the last half of 1891 and the first
half of 1892, fhat his acceptance of -the office and receipt of
the salary as clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals during that
period did not vacate the office of clerk of the Circuit Court,
or deprive him of the right to the compensation then sued for.
United States v. Harsha, 16 U. S. App. 13.
The subject of the present suit is the right of Mr. Harsha to
recover compensation for his services as clerk -of the Circuit
Court during the first quarter of the year 1895.
On July 31, 1894, Congress, by a provision inserted in the
middle of a general appropriation act, and as an addition to
a section relating to the pay of assistant messengers, firemen,
watchmen, laborers and charwomen, enacted as follows: "No
person who holds an office, the salary or annual compensation
attached to which amounts to the sum of two thousand five
hundred dollars, shall be appointed.to or hold any other office
to which compensation is attached, unless specially heretofore
or hereafter specially authorized thereto by law; but this
shall not apply to retired officers of the Army and Navy
whenever they may be elected to public office or wheneverthe President shall appoint them to office by and vith the
advice and consent of the Senate." Act of Juiy 31, 1894,
c. 174, ยง 2 ; 28 Stat. 162, 205.
The second question certified by the. Circuit Court of Appeals to this court is whether this act, ex yroprio vigore,
created a vacancy in the office of clerk of the Circuit Court,
"by reason of tho fact that at the time of its taking effect the
then lawful incumbent of that office was also holding the office
of clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals."
The provision of the act in question, so far as concerns
the question now before this court, is simply this: "1No per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

son who holds an office, the salary or annual compensation
attached to which amounts to the sum of two thousand five
hundred dollars, shall be appointed to or hold any other office
to which compensation shall be attached." If the appointment to the other office were made after the passage of the
act, it migrhit well be held to be void, leaving the person in
possession of the first office. But when, at the time of the
passage of the act, a person is holding two offices, to each
of which compensation is attached, and the compensation of
either or both of which is by an annual salary, the act does
not say which of the two offices he shall be deemed to have
resigned, or which of the two he shall continue to hold. If
the compensation of each office were a fixed salary of two
thousand five hundred dollars or more, an election by the incumbent would be the only possible method of determining
which office he should continue to hold. He must have the
same right of election between the two offices, when one is
paid by a fixed salary and the other by fees. The act, while
it makes the two offices incompatible for the future, does not
undertake to compel the defendant to give up the office which
is paid by fees, when he prefers to hold that office and to give
up the one which is paid by a salary.
At the time of the taking effect of the act, Mr. Harsha was
actually holding under lawful appointments, and was performing the duties of, two offices, that of clerk of the Circuit Court,
paid by fees, and that of clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
paid by a salary of three thousand dollars. He never showed
any intention of resigning or abandoning the former office;
and he had done all that he could to get rid of the latter
office, by presenting his formal resignation thereof to the
judges five months before the passage of the act, and never
attempting to recall that resignation. Even if his resignation
of this office could not take full effect until accepted, yet such
resignation, coupled with his unequivocal intention to retain
the other office, prevented the act of Congress from creating,
of its own force, and independently of any action of his, a
vacancy in that office. The fact that so long as his resignation of the one office had not been accepted, and while he

NAT'L BANK OF GflAND FORKS v. ANDERSON.

573

Opinion of the Court.

continued to perform the duties of both offices, he claimed
the compensation attached to both'-' whether this was owing
to his overlooking the provision in question, or to his own
understanding of its effect- has no tendency to show that he
elected to retain the office which he had resigned and to give
up the other.
The second question certified must therefore be answered
in the negative, and the third question becomes immaterial.
Ordered accordingly.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GRAND FORKS '.
ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM
Wo. 22.

COURT OF THE STATE OF :NORTH DAIOTA.

Submitted January , 1$99. -Decided

January 23,1 M.

The motion in this case to dismiss or affirm was founded upon the allegation that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State rested on two
grounds, one of which, broad enough in itself to sustain the judgment,
involved no Federal question. This court, while declining to sustain the
motion to dismiss, holds that there was color for it, and takes jurisdiction of the motion to affirm.
A national bank which, being authorized by the owner of notes in its possession to sell them to a third party, purchases them itself and converts
them to its own use, is liable to their owner for their value, as for a
conversion, even though it was not within its power to sell them- as the
owner's agent.

THis was a motion to dismiss or affirm.
in the opinion.

The case is stated

21,. Henry T. Phelps for the motion.
Air. Burke Corbet and _fr. I' E. Dodge opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIoE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an action at law brought by Anderson against
the First National Bank of Grand Forks, North Dakota, in

