OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

FITTS v. McGHEE,
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE-NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 180. Argued October26, 1898.-Decided January 5, 1899.
A suit brought by the receivers of a railroad against the Attorney General
of the State of Alabama and the Solicitor of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit
of that State, to restrain them, as officers of the State, from taking steps
to enforce against the complainants the provisions of a law of that State
reducing the tolls which had been exacted of the public under a prior
law for crossing on a bridge of the railroad over a river, is a suit against
the State, and this court accordingly reverses the judgment of the court
below, adjudging that the latter law was unconstitutional and void, and
that the defendants should not institute or prosecute any indictment or
criminal proceeding against any one for violating the provisions of that
act, and directed the court below to dissolve its injunction restraining
the institution or prosecution of indictments or other criminal proceedings so instituted in the state courts, and to dismiss the suit so brought
by the receivers against the Attorney General of Alabama and the Solicitor of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of that State.

AN act of the General Assembly of Alabama, approved February 9, 1895, prescribed certain maximum rates of toll to be
charged on the bridge across the Tennessee IRiver between
the counties of Colbert and Lauderdale in that State, and
known as the Florence bridge. It also declared that should the
owners, lessees or operators of the bridge, by themselves or
agents, demand or receive from any person a higher rate of
toll than was prescribed, he or they should forfeit to such
person twenty dollars for each offence, to be recoverable before any justice of the peace or notary public and ex ofiio
justice of the peace of either of the counties named.
When that act was passed the cases of Samuel Thomas v.
.emphis and Charleston Railroad Comyany and Central
Trust Company of New York v. Memphis and Charleston
Railroad Company were pending in the court below; and gn
the 14th day of February, 1895, Charles M. McGhee and
Henry Fink, receivers of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad in those causes - having first obtained leave to do so -

FITTS v. McGHEE.
Statement of the Case.

filed a bill in the name of themselves and the railroad company against "the State of Alabama, William C. Oates, as
Governor of the State of Alabama, and William C. Fitts, as
Attorney General of the State of Alabama."
After setting out their appointment as receivers, the order
of the court below authorizing the institution of the present
suit, the official character of the several defendants, the
ownership by the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company of the bridge in question, the above act of February 9,
IS95, the manner in which that company acquired the right
to construct and own the Florence bridge, the charters of the
railroad company granted by Tennessee and Alabama, the
purchase in 1850 of the bridge by the railroad company under
the charter granted by Alabama, and its management of the
bridge under the charter of the Florence Bridge Company,
the plaintiffs averred that the act incorporating the Bridge
Company was a contract between the State and the owners
of the bridge; that the rights acquired by that. company
under its charter passed to the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company ; that the rates of toll fixed by the act were
arbitrary, unreasonable and amounted virtually to the confiscation of the plaintiffs' property, and that the act was in
violation of the Constitution of the United States in that such
a legislative enactment deprived the owners of the bridge of
their property without due process of law, and denied to them
the equal protection of the laws.
It was further alleged that the clause in the act imposing
a penalty for demanding or receiving higher rates of toll than
those prescribed was intended and had the effect to deter the
plaintiffs from questioning by legal proceedings the validity
of such legislation.
After stating that they were remediless except by a bill in
equity, the plaintiffs prayed that "process of subpoena be issued
to and served upon the State of Alabama, the said William
C. Oates, as Governor of the State of Alabama, and William
C. Fitts, as Attorney General of the State of Alabama," requiring them, "in behalf of the State," to answer the bill,
and that an injunction be granted prohibiting and restrain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

ing said William 0. Oates, as Governor of the State of Alabama, and said William 0. Fitts, as Attorney General of the
State of Alabama, and all persons whomsoever, from instituting any proceeding against the complainants or either of
them under the forfeiture clause above set out in the second
section of said act of the Gener'al Assembly of Alabama.
Subpoenas to appear, answer or demur to the bill were
issued and served upon defendant Oates, as Governor, and
upon defendant Fitts, as Attorney General of the State. A
subpoena was also issued against the State,,and served upon
the.defendant Oates, as Governor.
A temporary injunction was issued, restraining and enjoining William 0. Oates, as Governor of Alabama., and William
0. Fitts, as Attorney General of the State, and "all persons
whomsoever, from instituting or prosecuting any proceedings"
against the plaintiffs, or either of them, under the forfeiture
clause contained in the above act of February 9, 1895.
The, defendants appeared specially for the purpose of moving, and did move, that the bill be dismissed upon the ground
that the suit was one against the State, and prohibited by the
Constitution of the United States.
The plaintiffs, by leave of the court, amended their bill by
adding thereto paragraphs to the effect that frequenV and
numerous demands had been made by persons on foot, on
horseback and in vehicles of the toll-gate keeper at the bridge
to pass them over at the rate of toll fixed by the act, and upon
the refusal of the toll-gate keeper to permit them to pass by
the payment of, the rates so fixed, and his requiring them to
pay the rates of toll fixed by the plaintiffs, they had paid the
tolls so required of them under protest, and had threatened
to institute suit or suits against the plaintiffs under the penalty clause of the act, and had also threatened to procure proceedings to be instituted in the courts by the Governor and
Attorney General in the name of the State, by a mandamus
or otherwise to compel the plaintiffs to pass people over the
bridge at the rates fixed by the act! that those persons had
also threatened to procure proceedings to be instituted in the
name of the. State for a forfeiture of the franchise of the Mem-

FITTS v. MeGIHEE.
Statement of the Case.

phis and Charleston Railroad Company in and to the bridge
property because of the failure and refusal to observe and
obey the requirements of the act in reference to the rates of
toll to be charged over the bridge; and that the persons so
protesting and threatening suits were too numerous to be made
pafties to that suit. Special reference was made to William
H. Gilliam, a resident citizen of Colbert County, Alabama, as
one of the parties or persons who had made threats of such
suits and proceedings.
The bill was amended by making Gilliam a party defendant, and by adding before the prayer for general relief, a
prayer "that an injunction be granted prohibiting and restraining said William C. Oates, as Governor of the State of
Alabama, and said William C. Fitts, as Attorney General of
the State of Alabama, and said William H. Gilliam and all
persons whomsoever, from instituting or procuring the institution of any proceedings against these complainants, or either
of them, by mandamus or otherwise, to compel the observance
and obedience of said act in reference to the rate qf tolls fixed
thereby over the said bridge, and also from ihstituting or procuring to be instituted any proceeding against these complainants, or either of them, for the forfeiture of the franchise of
the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company in and to the
said bridge on account of the refusal to charge the rates of
toll over it fixed by said act."
Subsequently, an order was made, enjoining and restraining William C. Fitts, as Attorney General of the State of
Alabama, and William H. Gilliam, and all persons whomsoever, until the further order of the court, from instituting
or procuring the institution of any proceeding against the
plaintiffs or either of them, by mandamus or otherwise, to
coihpel the observance and obedience of the act in reference
to the rate of tolls fixed thereby over the Florence bridge,
and from instituting or procuring to be instituted any proceedings against the plaintiffs or either of them for the forfeiture of the franchise of the Memphis and Charleston
Railroad Company in and to the bridge on account of the
refusal to charge the rates of toll over it fixed by the act.

OCTOBER TERT-M, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

At a later date in the progress of the cause the plaintiffs,
by leave of the court, inserted the following averments in
the bill:
"Complainants would further show unto your honors that
at the fall term 1895 of the Circuit Court of Lauderdale
County, Alabama, a large number of indictments -some
one hundred in number - we'e found by the grand jury of
said court against Thomas Clem and G. W. Brabson, who
are the toll-gate keepers at the public crossing of said bridge
for complainants, the receivers of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company. These indictments were found under
section 4151 of the Criminal Code of Alabama, which reads
as follows: '4151 (4401). Any person who, 'being or acting
as an officer, agent, servant or employ6 of any turnpike company, macadamized road company or other incorporated road
or bridge company, takes, receives or demands any greater
charge or toll for travel or passage over such road or bridge
-than is authorized by the charter of such company, or, if the
charter does not specify the amount of toll to be charged or
taken, fixes, prescribes, takes, receives or demands any unreasonable charge or toll, to be determined by the jury, must,
on conviction, be fined not more than one hundred dollars.'
Complainants allege and show unto your honors that these
indictments were improperly and wrongfully found against
said toll-gate keepers, and they are being improperly prosecuted thereby, because the rate of toll- which they have
charged is only the rate which has heretofore been fixed
by the receivers, which was fixed by them before the passage of said unconstitutional act of the General Assembly
of Alabama reducing the tolls, and is the same rate of tolls
which have been charged for more-than twenty years by the
Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company for the use by
the public of said bridge, and the tolls so charged by said
toll-gate keepers were authorized. by this court, and said
indictments have been found and are being prosecuted in
violation of the authority of this court and of its orders in
the premises, and in violation of the constitutional rights and
privileges under the Constitution of the United States, secured

FITTS v. McGH.E.
Statement of the Case.

to the owners of said bridge in the charging of tolls before
crossing it. A. H. Carmichael is the Solicitor for said judicial circuit, and as such is engaged in the prosecution of said
indictments."
The plaintiffs asked that Carmichael, as such solicitor, be
made.a party defendant; that all needful process issue against
him; and that a restraining order be issued ejoining him and
all other persons from the prosecution of said indictments.
By a supplemental bill it was averred that writs of arrest
had been issued upon the above indictments against Clem and
Brabson, and placed in the hands -of the. sheriff, who in execution thereof had arrested or would arrest the said emplovs
of the receivers. It was furthier alleged that these criminal
proceedings were in contempt of the order of the court below
appointing the receivers, as well as in violation of the injunc.
tion which the court had issued, and which still remained in
force, " enjoining, the said Governor, Attorney General and
all persons whomsoever from instituting any suits or proceedings" under the above act of the State.
After referring to the indictments and the purpose on the
part of the state officers to proceed under them, the plaintiffs
prayed that the act of February 9, 1895, be declared repugnant to the Constitution of the UnitedStates and invalid, inoperative, null and void, and that an injunction be granted
"prohibiting and restraining William C. Oates, as Governor
of the State of Alabama; Williant C. Fitts, as Attorney
General of the State of Alabama, W. H. Gilliam and A. H. Carmichael, Solicitor as aforesaid, and all other persons vhomsoever, from instituting anyproceeding against these complainants
or either- of them, their servants or agents, under the forfeiture clause set out ire said second section of said act of the
General Assembly of Alabama;" that said officers "' and all
persons whomsoever be restrained and enjoined, from instituting or procuring the institution of any proceeding against
these complainants or either of them, their agents, servants
or employ~s, by a mandamus or otherwise, to compel the. observance and obedience to said act in' reference to the rate of
tolls fixed thereby over said bridge, and also from instituting

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

or procuring to be instituted anyi proceeding against these
complainants or either of them for the forfeiture of the franchise of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company in
and to said bridge on account of the refusal to charge the
rates of toll over it fixed by the said act;" and that "the said
defendants and said Carmichael, Solicitor as aforesaid, and all
persons whomsoever, be restrained and enjoined from prosecuting said indictments against the said servants, agents and
employ6s of the complainants, or from interfering in any
way, under and by virtue of the color of said unconstitutional
act, with the rights, privileges, and franchises and property of
the complainants, their servants or agents, with regard to said
bridge."
At this stage of the proceedings the plaintiffs dismissed the
cause so far as the State was made a party defendant, and
amended the bill by striking out its name as a defendant, as
-well as the words "in behalf of the State." The cause was
then heard upon a motion by the Governor and Attorney
General to dismiss the bill upon the ground that the suit was
one against the State in violation of the Constitution of the
United States.
Upon the filing of the last amendment to the original bill,
it was ordered by the court that A. H. Carmichael, as Solicitor for the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of Alabama, be enjoined
and restrained temporarily, and until the further orders of the
court, "from instituting or prosecuting as such Solicitor any.
indictments. or criminal proceedings against any one for a
violation of the alleged unconstitutional act of the Legislature
of Alabama described in the bill."
The next step in the proceedings was the suing out of writs
of habea8 corpus by 0lem and Brabson, who were under arrest
on process issued on the above indictments. Each of the petitioners was released upon his own recognizance in the sum of
$150, conditioned that he would appear in court from day to
day until discharged.
Gilliam filed an answer, insisting upon the validity of the
act of the legislature which had been issailed by the bill as
unconstitutional.

FITTS v. 'MGHEE.
-

Statement of the Case.

A decreepro conf8o was taken against the Governor and
Attorney General of the State, as well as Carmichael as Solicitor aforesaid, all in their respective official capacities.
But that decree was set aside, and the cadse was heard upon
demurrers by the"various defendants. The deinurrers were
overruled, and answers were filed by the Governor and Attorney General of the State and by the Solicitor of the Eleventh
Judicial Circuit. There were also motions to dissolve the injunction graited in the case, upon the ground. that there -was
no equity in the bill, and that the injunctions were in violation
of the Constitution and statutes of the United States.
The final decree in the case was as follows: "This cause
coming on to be heard, the submission at the former term of
the court is hereby set aside, and, it being made to appear to
the court that the defendant William C. Oates has ceased to
be the Governor of the State of Alabama, it is thereupon
ordered that'the said cause be discontinued as to him, and
the cause is now resubmitted at this term of the court for
final decree upon the pleadings and testimony offered by the
parties, and upon due consideration thereof it is considered
by the court that the complainants are entitled to relief. It
is thereupon ordered, adjudged and decreed that. the act of
the Legislature of the State of Alabama referred to and set
up in the original bill of complaint in the cause, which act
was approved February 9, 1895, and entitled 'An act to fix
the maximum of tolls to be charged by the owners, lessees
or operators of the road bridge across the Tennessee River,
between the counties of Colbert and Lauderdale, and known
as the Florence bridge, and to fix the penalty for demanding
or receiving a higher rate of. tolls,' is violative of the constitutional rights of the owners of said bridge and of the complainants as their representatives, in that it fixes a rate of
tolls for said bridge which are not fairly and reasonably compensatory, and it is therefore hereby declared to be invalid
and inoperative, and the injunctions heretofore granted in the
cause are hereby made perpetual. It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the defendants pay the costs of this
proceeding, for which let execution issue."

QQTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mg.. William J. Wood for appellants. Mr. Williama
Fita, Attorney General of the State of Alabama, was with
him on the brief.
-Y.

Milton HJJhem

for appellees. -1r. Paul Speake was

with him on the brief.
MR.JusmoE HARLAN, after stating the facts as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question before us is whether 'this suit is
one of which a .Circuit Court of the United States may take
cognizance consistently with the Constitution of the United
States.
From the history given of the proceedings below it appears
that the Circuit Court adjudgedThat the legislative enactment of

February

9, 1895, was

unconstitutional and void in that it did not permit the owners
of the Florence bridge, and the plaintiffs as their representatives, to charge rates of toll that were fairly and reasonably
compensatory; and,
That the defendants Fitts aid Carmichael, holding respectively the offices of Attorney General of Alabama and Solicitor of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of the State, should not
institute or prosecute any indictment or criminal proceeding
against 'any one for violating the prbvisions of that act.
Is this a suit against the State of Alabama? It is true that
:the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States does not in terms declare that the judicial power of

the United States shall not extend to suits against a State by
citizens of such State. But it has been adjudged by this court
upon full consideration that a suit against a State by one of
it§ own citizens, the State not having consented to be sued,was unknown to and forbidden by the law, as much so as
suits against a State by citizens of another State of the
Union, or by citizens or subjects of foreign States. ffan8 v.
Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, 10, 15; Yorth Carolina v. Tomple,
134 U. S.22. It is therefore an immaterial circumstance in

FITTS v. MYcGHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

the present case that the plaintiffs do not appear to be citizens of another State than Alabama, and may be citizens of
that State.
What is and what is not a suit against a State has so frequently been the subject of consideration by this court that
nothing of importance remains to be suggested on either side
of that question. It is only necessary to ascertain, in each
case as it arises, whether it falls on one side or the other of
the line marked out by our former decisions.
We are of opinion that the present case comes within the
principles announced in In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 485, 496500, 505. It appears from the report of that case that the
Circuit Court of the United Siates for the Eastern District of
Virginia in Cooper v. MAarye made an order forbidding the
Attorney General of Virginia and other officers of that Commonwealth from bringing suits under a certain statute of
Virginia, in its name and on its behalf, for the recovery of
taxes, in payment of which the taxpayers had previously
tendered tax-receivable coupons. The state officers did not
obey.this order, and having been proceeded against for contempt of court, they sued out writs of habeas corpus, and
asked to be discharged upon the ground that the Circuit
Court had no power to make the order for disobeying which
the proceedings in contempt were commenced. This court
said that the question really_ vas whether the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction to entertain the suit in which that order was
made, the sole purpose and prayer of the bill therein being
by final decree to enjoin the defendants, officers of Virginia,
from taking any steps in execution of the statute the validity
of which was questioned.
It was adjudged that although Virginia was not named
on the record as a party defendant, nevertheless, when the
nature of the case against its officers was considered, that
Commonwealth" was to be regarded as the actual party in
the sense of the constitutional prohibition. The court said :
"It follows, therefore, in the present case, that the personal
act of the petitioners sought to be restrained by the order
of the Circuit Court, reduced to the mere bringing of an ac-

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion in the name of and for the State against taxpayers who,
although they may have tendered the tax-receivable coupons,
are charged as delinquents, cannot be alleged against them
as an individual act in violation of any legal or contract
rights of such taxpayers." Again: "The relief sought is
against the defendants, not in their individual, but in their
representative capacity as officers of the State of Virginia.
The acts sought to be restrained are the bringing of suits by
the State of Virginia in its own name and for its own use.
If the State had been made a defendant to this bill by name,
charged according to the allegations it now contains-supposing that such a suit could be maintained- it would have
been subjqcted to the jurisdiction of the court by process
served upon its Governor and Attorney General, according
to the precedents in such cases. N ew Jersey v. New York,
5 -Pet.284, 288, 290; Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66, 96,
97; Rule 5 of 1884, 108 U. S. 574. If a decree could have
been rendered enjoining the State from bringing suits against
its, taxpayers, it would have operated upon the State only
through the officers who by law were required to represent
it in bringing such suits, viz., the present defendants, its
Attorney General t.nd the Cbmmonwealth's attorneys for
the several counties. For a breach of such an injunction,
these officers would be amenable to the court as proceeding
in contempt of its authority, and would be liable to punishment therefor by attachment and imprisonment. The nature
..of the case, as supposed, is identical with that of the case as
.actually presented in the bill, with the single exception that
the State is not named as a defendant. How else can the
State be forbidden by judicial process to bring actions in its
name, except by constraining the-conduct of its officers, its
attorneys and.its agents? And if all such officers, attorney§
and agents are personally subjected to the process of the
court, so as to forbid their acting in its behalf, how can it
be said that the State itself is not subjected to the jurisdiction
of the court as an actual and real defendant.?"
One of the arguments made in the Ayers case was that the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction to restrain by injunction officers

FITTS v. McGHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the State' from executing the provisions of state enactments, void by reason of repugnancy to the Conititution of
the United States. In support of that position reference was
made to Osborn v. Bank of tie United States, 9 Wheat. 738.
But this court said: "There is nothing, therefore, in the
judgment in that cause, as finally defined, which extends its
authority beyond the prevention and restraint of the specific
act done in pursuance of the unconstitutional statute of Ohio,
and in violation of the act of Congress chartering the bank,
which consisted of the unlawful seizure and detention of its
property. It was conceded throughout that case, in the argument at the bar and in the opinion of the court, that an action
at law would lie, either of trespass or detinue, .against the
defendants as individual trespassers guilty of a wrong in taking the property of the complainant illegally, vainly seeking
to defend themselves under the authority of a void act of
the General Assembly of Ohio. One of the principal questions in the case was whether equity had jurisdiction to restrain the commission of such a mere trespass,.a jurisdiction
which was upheld upon the circumstances and nature of the
case, and which has been repeatedly exercised since. But the
very ground on which it was adjudged not to be a suit against
the State, and not to be one in which the State was a necessary party, was that the defendants pei'sonally and individually were wrongdoers, against whom the complainants had a
clear right of action for the recovery of the property taken,
or its value, and that therefore it was a case in which no other
parties were necessary. The right asserted and the relief
asked were against the defendants as individuals. They
sought to protect themselves against personal liability by
their official character as representatives of the State. This
they were not permitted to do, because the authority under
which they professed to act was void." And these were
stated by the court to be the grounds upon which it had proceeded in other cases-citing Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio
Rai7road Co., 114: U. S. 311; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114
U. S. 270, 282; United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196. The
court further said: "The very object and purpose of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Eleventh Amendment were to prevent the indignity of subjecting a. State to the coercive process of judicial tribunals
at the instance of private parties. It was thought to be
neither becoming nor convenient that the several States of
the Union, invested with that large residuum of sovereignty
which had not been delegated to the United States, should
be summoned as defendants to answer the complaints of private, persons, whether citizens of other States or aliens, or
that the course of their public policy and the administration
of their public affairs should be subject to and controlled by
the mandates of judicial tribunals without their consent, and
in favor of individual interests. To secure the manifest purposes 6f the constitutional exemption guaranteed by the
Eleventh Amendment requires that it should be interpreted,
not literally and too narrowly, but fairly, and with such
breadth and largeness as effectually to accomplish the substance of its purpose. In this spirit it must be held to cover,
not only suits brought against a State.by name, but those also
against its officers, agents and representatives, where the
State, though not named as such, is, nevertheless, the only
real party against which alone in fact the relief is asked, and
against which the judgment or decree effectively operates.
But this is not intended in any way to impinge. upon the
principle which justifies suits against individual defendants,
who, under color of the authority of unconstitutional legislation by the State, are guilty of personal trespasses and
wrongs, nor to forbid suits against officers in their official
capacity either to arrest or direct their official action by injunction or mandamus, where sfich suits are authorized by law,
and the act to be done or omitted is purely ministerial, in the
performance or omission of which the plaintiff has a legal
interest."
It was accordingly adjudged that the suit in which injunctions were granted against officers of Virginia was in substance and in law one against that Commonwealth, of which
the Circuit Court of the United States could not take cognizance.
If these principles be applied in the present case there is no

FITTS v. McGHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

escape from the conclusion that, although the State of Alabama was dismissed as a party defendant, this suit*against its
officers is really one against the State. As a State can act
only by its officers, an order restraining those officer from
taking any steps, by means of judicial proceedings, in execution of the statute of February 9, 1895, is one which restrains
the State itself, and the suit is consequently as much against
the State as if the-State were named as a party defendant
on the record. If the individual defendants held possession
or were about to take possession of, or to commit any trespass
upon, any property belonging to or under the control of the
plaintiffs, in violation of the latter's constitutional rights, they
could not resist the judicial determination, in a suit against
them, of the question of the right to such possession by simply,
asserting that they held or were entitled to hold the property
in their capacity as officers of the State. In the case supposed,
they would be compelled to make good the State's claim to
the property, and could not shield themselves against suit
because of their official character. Tindal v. We8ley, 167 U. S.
204, 222. No such case is before us.
It is to be observed that neither the Attorney General of
Alabama nor the Solicitor of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of
the State appear to have been charged by law with any
special duty in connection with the act of February 9, 1895.
In support of the contention that the present suit is not one
against the State, reference was made by counsel to several
cases, among which were Poindexter v. Greenhowb, 114 U. S.
270; Allen v. Baltimore c Ohio Railroad, 114 U. S. 311;
Pennoyer v. .McOonnaughy, 140 U. S.1; Ah re Tyler, 149
U. S.164 ; Reagan v. .Farmers'Loan and Tm8t (Jo., 154 U. S.
362, 388; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58, and Smyth v. Ame8,
169 U. S.466. Upon examination, it will be found that the
defendants in each of those cases were officers of the State,
specially charged with the execution of a state enactment
alleged to be unconstitutional, but under the authority of
which, it was averred, they were committing or were about
to commit some specific wrong or trespass to the injury of the
plaintiff's rights. There is a wide difference between a suit
VOL. CLXXI-I-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

against individuals, holding official positions under a State, to
prevent them, under the sanction of an unconstitutional statute,
from committing by some positive act a wrong or trespass, and
a suit against officers of a State merely to test the constitutionality of a state statute, in the enforcement of which those officers will act only by formal judicial proceedings in the courts
of the State. In the present case, as we have said, neither of
the state officers named held any special relation to the particular statute alleged to be unconstitutional. They were not
expressly directed to see to its enforcement. If, because they
were law officers of the State, a case could be made for the
purpose of testing the constitutionality of the statute, by an
injunction suit brought against them, then the constitutionality of every act passed by the legislature could be tested by
a suit'against the Governor and the Attorney General, based
upon the theory that the former as the executive of the State
was, in a general sense, charged with the execution of all its
laws, and the latter, as Attorney General, might represent the
State in litigation involving the enforcement of its statutes.
That would, be a very convenient way for obtaining a speedy
judicial determination of questions of constitutional law which,
may be raised by individuals, but it is a mode which eannot
be applied to the States of the Union consistently with the
fundamental principle that they cannot, without their assent,
be brought into any court at the suit of private persons. If
their officers commit acts of trespass or wrong to the citizen,
they may be individually proceeded against for such trespasses
or wrong. Under the view we take of the question, the citizen
is not without effective remedy, when proceeded against under
a legislative enactment void for repugnancy to the supreme
law of the land; for, whatever the form of proceeding against
him, he can make his defence upon the ground that the statute
is unconstitutional and void. And that question can be ultimately brought to this court for final determination.
What has been said has reference to that part of the final
decree which holds the act of February 9, 1895, to be invalid
and inoperative. Whether the owners of the bridge, and +he
plaintiffs as their representatives, were" denied by the statute

FITTS v. McGHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

fair and reasonable compensation for the use of-the property
by the public, was a question that could not be cohisidered in
this case. This is not a matter to be determined in a suit
against the State; for of such a suit the Circuit Court could
not take cognizance.
It remains only to consider the case so far as the final decree
assumes to enjoin the officers of the State from instituting or
prosecuting any indictment or criminal proceedings having for
their object the enforcemerit of the statute of 1895. We are
of opinion that the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting
in equity, was without jurisdiction to enjoin the institution or
prosecution of these criminal proceedings commenced in the
state court. This view is sustained by In re Sawyer, 124:
U. S.200, 209, 210. It was there said: "Underthe Constitution and laws of the United States, the distinction betweer
common law and equity, as existing in England at the time
of the separation of the two countries, has been maintained,
although both jurisdictions are vested in the same courts.
Fenn v. Holme, 21 How. 481, 481-487 ; T/ompson v. Railroad Comp~anies, 6 Wall. 134; Jeine v. Levee Commifsfioner8,
19 Wall. 655." -Again : "The office and jurisdiction of a court
of equity, unless enlarged-by express statute, are limited to the
protection of rights of property. It has no jurisdiction over
the prosecution, the punishment or the pardon of crimes and
misdemeanors, or over the appointment and removal of public
officers. To assume such a jurisdiction, or to sustain a bill in
equity to restrain or relieve against proceedings for the punishment of offences, or for the removal of public officers, is to
invade the domain of the courts of common law, or of the
executive and administrative departments of the government."
At the present term of the .court, in Rarkraderv. lWadley, 172
U. S.148, 169, 170, we said: "In proceeding by indictment
to enforce a criminal statute the State can only act by officers
or attorneys, and to enjoin the latter is to enjoin the State."
Again : "Much more are we of opinion that a Circuit Court
of the United States, sitting in equity in the administration
of civil remedies, has no jurisdiction to stay by injunction proceedings pending in a state court in the name of a State to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

enforce the criminal laws of such State." Undoubtedly, the
courts of the United States have the power, under existing
legislation, by writ of habeas corTus to discharge from custody any*person held by state authorities under criminal proceedings instituted under state enactments, if such enactments
are void for repugnancy to the. Constitution, laws or treaties
.of the United States. But even in such case we have held
that this power will not be exercised, in, the first instance,
except in extraordinary cases, and the party will be left to
make his defence in the state court. E parte Royall, 117
U. S. 241; Yew York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231 ; -Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284. But
the existence of the power in the courts of the United States
to discharge upon habeas corpus by. no 'means implies that
they may, in the exercise of their equity powers, interrupt or
enjoin proceedings of a criminal character in a state court
The plaintiffs state that the toll-gatherers in their service had
been indicted in a state court for.violating the provisions of the
act of 1895 in respect of tolls. Let them appear to the indictment and defend themselves upon the ground that the state
statute is repugnant to the Constitution of the United. States.
The state court is competent to determine the question thus
raised, and is under a duty to enforce the mandates of the
supreme law of the land. Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624.
Aid if the question is determined -adversely to the defendants
in the highest court of the State in which the decision could
be had, the. judgment may be reexamined by this court upon
writ of error. That the defendants may be frequently indicted constitutes no reason why a .Federal court of equity
should assume to interfere with the ordinary course of criminal procedure in a state court.
It appears from the record that Clem and Brabson were indicted in the state court under section 4151 of the Criminal
Code of Alabama. Having been arrested under those indictments, they sued out, as we have seen, writs of habeas CorVU8
upon the ground that they were indicted for taking tolls in
violation of the above act of February 9, 1895, which they
alleged to be unconstitutional, and that their arrest was in dis-

FITTS v. McGHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

regard of the injunction of the Circuit Court restraining the
institution and prosecution of indictments or other criminal
proceedings in execution of that act. The Circuit Court dis-

charged the petitioners upon their own recognizances. It was
error to discharge them and thereby interfere with their trial
in the state court. As already indicated, the Circuit Court, sitting in equity, was without jurisdiction to prohibit the institution or prosecution of these criminal proceedings in the state
court. Further, even if the Circuit Court regarded the act of
1895 as repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
the custody of the accused by the state authorities should not
have been disturbed by any order of that court, and the accused should have been left to be dealt with by the state
court, with the right, after the determination of the case in
that court, to prosecute a writ of error from this court for the
reexamination of the final judgment so far as it itivolved any
privileges secured to the accused by the Constitution of the
United States. Ex parteRoyall, New York v. Eno, Wkitten v.
Tomlinson and Baker v. Grice, above cited. There were no
exceptional or extraordinary circumstances in these cases to
have justified the interference by the Circuit Court, under
writs of habeas corpus, with the trial of the indictments found
in the state courts.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with directions to dissolve the i,junction restrainingthe institution

or prosecution of indictments or other criminal proceedings in the state court, to dismiss the suit brought by the
receivers againstthe Attorney General of Alabama and the
Solicitor of the Eleventh Judicial Circuitof the State, and
to remand Clenz and Brabson to the custody of the proper
state authority

