CHAPPELL CHEMICAL CO. v. SULPHUR MINES CO. 465
Counsel for Parties.

States, dutiable goods without passing the same, or the package containing the same, through the custom house, or submitting them to the officers of the revenue for examination."
It is true the definition is given "for the purposes of this act,"
and evidently with the object of including within its provisions not only the act of smuggling proper, that is, the act
of importing with intent to defraud dutiable articles without
passing, etc., but of an attempt to do the same, which would
probably not be construed as smuggling under the provisions
of other acts. It is scarcely possible that Congres should
have contemplated wholly different interpretations of the
same words in different acts.
But it is useless to prolong this discussion. The whole
question turns upon the meaning of the words "smuggle"
and "clandestinely introduce." I have given my reasons for
believing that they include an importation of goods with -an
intent to evade the duties- the right to which has already
attached -and I am at a loss to understand why an obsolete
definition of the English law should be rehabilitated to defeat
the manifest intention of Congress.

CHAPPELL CHEMICAL AND FERTILIZER COMPANY v. SULPHUR MINES COMPANY (No. 1).
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MA RYLAND.
No. 91. Argued December 16, 1898. -Decded

January 9, 1899.

The decision of the Maryland Court of Appeals in this case rests on grounds
other than those dependent on Federal questions, if any such questions,
were raised, and the writ of error must be dismissed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas C. Chappl for plaintiff in error.
M'. Jame8 .X. Ambler and Mr. Randolph Barton for deVOL. CLXxr-80

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant in error. .M. Skipwith Wilmer and Mr. 1andol~ph
Barton, Jr., were on their brief.
NMn. JuSTice MeKENN. delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity to restrain the enforcement of a certain writ of attachment and execution issued on a judgment
recovered against plaintiff in error. The original bill alleges
that the judgment is 'absolutely void. The fdllowing are some
of its allegations:
"That the said purported judgmeht was recovered by the
said defendant against your orator in the superior court for
Baltimore city, before the judge at large, and that said judgment is rendered coram non judice, and your orator herewith
files a certified copy of the docket entries in said case, marked
'Complainants' Exhibit B,' reference being had thereto.
"That the entry on said docket, that the case was submitted. to the judge, is absolutely fraudulent, and that there
is a motion pending in said case to correct said fraudulent
-docket entry.
"That your orator is advised that the said case was not before said judge at large when said judgment was rendered, and
said judge had no jurisdiction or authority at law. to render
said judgment.
"That the said judgment was made absolute by the said
judge at large, while there was pending a motion to strike out
the verdict and the judgment thereon, and your orator insists
that said judgment is absolutely void, and rendered ultra vires,
and said motion to strike out the judgment is still pending in
said superior court."
It is also alleged that there was pending in the case a motion
to quash the attachment. There were exhibits filed with the
bill. A demurref was interposed. Subsequently an amended
and- supplemental bill was filed, containing additional allegations of proceedings, and the prayer was also.broadened.
To this bill a demurrer was again filed, and the ground of
it stated to be that the bill did not state such a case as,entitled
plaintiff to any relief in equity.

CHAPPELL CHEMICAL CO. v. SULPHUR MIIES CO. 467
Opinion of the Court.

The demurrer was sustained, and the bills dismissed on the
2d of June, 1896.
On the 22d of August, 1896, the plaintiff presented a petition
for leave to file an ancillary bill in the following words:
"The said plaintiff, by Thomas C. Chappell,'its attorney,
reserving every manner of advantage and exception whatsoever, shows to this honorable court:
"I. That since the decree was passed in this case dismissing -the bill of complaint herein, the motions of the said Chappell Chemical Fertilizer Company in the case of The Sulphur
.Mines Company of. Tirginia v. The Chapell Chemical and
Fertilizer Company, which said motions are referred .to in
the original and supplemental bills flled" herein, have been
overruled.
"II. That an appeal from the order of the courb in said'
action at law is not an adequate remedy, and that under art.16, sec. 69, Code Pub. Gen. Laws of Maryland, the said plaintiff herein is entitled to an injunction to enjoin the said plaintiff
herein from reaping any benefit from the said purported judgment, and from occasioning this plaintiff any damage by any
proceedings in said pretended judgment.
"III. That while the filing of an amended -or-an ancillary
or supplemental bill is in the discretion of -the court, that discretion is to be exercised within prescribed legal and equitable
limitations, according to the decision of the Court of Appeals.
"IV. That the property of this plaintiff is tied up and rendered extra commercium, and placed in such a position and its
title so clouded by this invalid and illegal judgment delivered
in a court without jurisdiction, and coram non judie,and in
violation of the Seventh Amendment and the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, under
which the said plaintiff specially sets up and claims a right,
privilege and immunity, that the said plaintiff is entitled to
file an amended, supplemental and ancillary bill herein, fully
setting forth all the facts, aiid insists that said illegal and invalid. judgment should be cancelled by this honorable court,
whose province is to prevent wrong and to do right, and the

.468

OCTOBER TER-, 1898.
Opinion of the C6urt.

said plaintiff claims'that it is being deprived of its liberty and
its property without due process of law, and that under the
declaration of rights of the State of Maryland, art. 5, and the
constitution of the State and law of the State as laid down by
the Court of Appeals of Maryland, it was entitled to a trial
by jury in said case at law, having demanded such trial, and
that the action of the judge at large- in denying that right
and in trying said case after an appeal from an order affecting
a constitutional right, without a jury and ex .parte and without notice to this plaintiff, and without an opportunity to be
heard, and without any trial of the facts; and the finding of a
verdict by the judge at large upon the false and fraudulent
testimony of the officer of the said Sulphur Mines Company
of Virginia, at said expartM trial, all of which this plaintiff
charges is the enforcement of law and a regulation of the
State abridging a privilege and immunity 9f this plaintiff,
which is a citizen of the United States, and is repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, and every judge and all the people are bound by the
Constitution of the United States, art. 2, declaration of rights
of the State of Maryland, article 6, Constitution of the United
States. Wherefore your p6titioner prays leave to file an
ancillary bill of complaint herein, and specially sets up and
claims the privilege and specially sets up and claims that any
denial of the said privildge will be a denial of the equal protection of the laws and repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
"Tros. C.

CHA1PPLL,

"Al'yfor Plaintf."
On the same day leave to file the bill was refused, and the
plaintiff, on the 25th of August, 1896, filed the following:
"The said plaintiff, by Thomas C. Chappell, attorney, reserving every manner of advantage and exception whatsoever,
excepts to the order of court requiring the demurrer filed in
this case to be argued before all of the defendants had been
served with subpoena, and to the order of court dismissing the
original and supplemental bills of complaint herein, and to

CHAPPELL CHEMICAL CO. v. SULPHUR MINES CO.

469

Opinion of the Court.

the order of court refusing to the plaintiff the right and privilege to file an ancillary bill, and specially sets up and claims
that said orders abridge a privilege and immunity of the said
plaintiff, a citizen of the United States, and are repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, under which said plaintiff specially set up and claim a
right, privilege and immunity.

"T~os. C.

OHAPEL,

"-Attorney for Plaintif."
I.nd on the same day the following:
"1Mr. Clerk: Please enter an appeal from the decree in this
case dated the 22d day of August, 1896.
"THos. C. CHAPPFELL,
"Attorneyfor Plaintif ."
Then follow in the record certain papers which presumably
were necessary to perfect the appeal.
The record contains tvo opinions and twvo judgments of the
Court of Appeals, all dated the same day. The one which
comes first in the record considers and affirms the decree of
the lower court sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the bills
entered June 2, 1896; the other affirms the order of the 22d
of August, 1896, refusing leave to file the ancillary bill.
The following is the opinion of the court on the latter:
"The decree of the court sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the original and supplemental bills of The Chappell
Chemical and Fertilizer Company against The Sulphur Mines
Company of Virginia et al. was passed June 2, 1896. On the
next day an appeal was entered, which we have just considered. On the 22d day of August, 1896, over two months
and a half after the appeal was taken and while it was still
pending, the appellant filed in the original case a petition ask
ing leave to file 'an ancillary bill of complaint herein.' The
court very promptly and properly refused to allow it to be
done. From that order this appeal was taken.
"Even after a court of equity has sustained a demurrer to a
bill, it can grant leave to amend if it can be seen that the de-

.OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

fects can b e remedied by amendment, and the court is of the
opinion that substantial justice requires it. But when an application to amend is not made within a reasonable time and
the bill is dismissed, it is out of court, and there is noihing to
amend. In this case, instead of asking the dourt to strike out,
the decree dismissing the bill so that it could amend, the appellant took an appeal. The case was thus beyond the right of
the plaintiff to amend or to file a supplemental or 'ancillary'
bill. But, in addition to that, the reasons -assigned in the
pbtition were not sufficient to authorize the interposition of'
a court of equity. The order of the court in refusing to allow
the plaintiff to file an ' ancillary bill' must be affirmed.
"Order affirmed with costs to the appellee."
There is more confusion when we com6 to the petition for
writ of error. It does not distinguish between these judgments except by a referenco to the assignment of errors. The
petition recites "that on or about the 5th day of June, 1897,
this court [Court of Appeals] entered .a decree herein in favor
of the defendant, the appellee, and against this plaintiff." It
then recites that there was drawn in question the validity of a
statute or an authority exercised under the United States, and
the decision was against the validity, and also the validity of
a statute or an authority exercised under the State on the
ground of repuinancy to the Constitution of the United
States, and the decision was in favor of the validity, and
that "certain errors were committed to the prejudice of this
complainant, the appellant,, all of which will more fully appear from the assignment of errors, which will. be duly filed
herein."
The assignment of errors is as follows:
"CAfterwards; to wit, on the first Monday of October, in
this same teim, before the Justices of the Supreme Court of
the United States, at the Capitol, in the city of Washington,
comes The Chappell Chemical and Fertilizer Company, by
Thomas C. Chappell, its attorney, and says that in the record
and proceedings' aforesaid there is manifest error in this, to.
wit, that the demurrer aforesaid and the matters therein contained are not sufficient in law for The Sulphur Mines Corn-

CHAPPELL CHEMICAL CO. v. SULPHUR MINES CO. 471
Opinion of the Court.

pany of Virginia to have or maintain its aforesaid decree
against the said The Chappell Chemical and Fertilizer Company. There is also'error in this, to wit, that by the record
aforesaid it appears that the decree aforesaid given was given
for the said The Sulphur Mines Company of Virginia against
the -said The Chappell Chemical and Fertilizer Company,
whereas by the law of the 'land the said decree ought to have
been given for the said The Chappell Chemical and Fertilizer
Company against the said The Sulphur Mines Company of
Virginia; and the said The Chappell Chemical and Fertilizer
Company prays the judgment and decree aforesaid may be
reversed, annulled and held for nothing, and that it may be
restored to all things which it has lost by occasion of said
judgment, etc."
The writ of error therefore is directed to the decree of the
Court of Appeals affirming the decree of the lower court of
the 2d of June, 1ยง96, while the only appeal that the record
contains is from the decree of the latter of the 22d of August,
1896.
But passing by this confusion, and regarding both decrees
before us, we come to the motion to dismiss made by the
defendants in error on the ground that no Federal question
was raised in the state court.
This is true as to all the pleadings and papers, except the
petition of the 22d of August, 1896, for leave to file an ancillary bill. If, however, a Federal question was raised by the
petition and on the appeal from the order denying it, themotion to dismiss must nevertheless be granted, because
the decision of the Court of Appeals rests on grounds other
than those dependent on Federal questions. Simmerman v.
.Nebraeka, 116 U. S. 54; Eustis v. Boltes, 150 U. S. 361; California Powder Work8 v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389'; .TlissouiPacefle Railway v. Fitzgeralda 160 U. S. 556; _Fowler v. Lamson,
164 U. S. 252; see also Iowa Central Railway v. Iowa, 160
U. S. 389; Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166
U. S. 685, and JMiller v. Cor"nwall Railroad Co., 168 U. S. 131.
The writ of error is dismissed.

