CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.

WALLA WALLA CITY v. WALLA WALLA WATER
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM' THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

I-TED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTOI.
No. 28. Argued October 12, 18, 1898.-Decided November 14, 1898.

By an act of November 28, 1883, the legislature of Washington Territory
Incorporated the city of Walla Walla, conferring upon it, among other
powers, the power to provide a sufficient supply of water for the city,
and the right to permit the use of the city streets for the purpose of
laying pipes for furnishing such supply for a term not exceeding twentyfive years. The act contained a further provision fixing the limit of
indebtedness of the city at fifty thousand dollars. The city, under this
authority, by contract granted to the Walla Walla Water Company the
right to lay and maintain water mains, etc., for twenty-five years, reserving to itself the right to maintain fire hydrants and to flush sewers during this term, each without charge. The contract further provided that
it was voidable by the city, so far as it required thd payment of money,
upon the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, whenever there
should be a substantial failure of such supply, or a like failure on the
p %rtof the company to perform its agreements, and that, until the contrnct should have been so avoided, the city should not erect, or maintan, or become interested in other water works. These provisions were
accepted by the Water Company, and were complied with by it, and the
contract was in force when this bill was filed. In 1893 the city authoriVOL. CLXXI-1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
ties passed an ordinance to provide for the construction of a system of
water works to supply the city with water, and to -issue bonds for that
purpose to the amount of one huidred and sixty thousand dollars, which
ordinance was accepted by the necessary majority of legal voters. The
Water Company then filed its bill to enjoin the city from creating the
proposed water works, or from expending city moneys for that purpose,
or from issuing city securities therefor. To this bill the city demurred,
resting its demurrer upon a'want of jurisdiction, all parties on both
sides being citizens of the State of Washington. Held:
(1) That the allegations in the bill raise a question of the constitutional
power of the city to impair the obligations of its contract with
the plaintiffs by adopting the brdinance;
(2) That the grant of a right to supply water to a municipality and its
inhabitants through pipes and mains laid in the streets of a city,
upon condition'of the performance of its service by the grantee,
is the grant of a franchise vested in the State, (which may be
made by municipal authorities when the right to do so is given by
their charters,) in consideration of the performance of a public
service, and, after performance by the grantee, is a contract, protected by the Constitution of the United States against state legislation to impair it;
(3) That the plaintiff has no adequate and complete remedy at law, and
the court has jurisdiction in equity;
(4) That as the contract was limited to twenty-five years, and as no
attempt was made to grant an exclusive privilege, the city pcted
within the strictest limitation of its charter;
(5) That if the contract for the water supply was innocuous in itself,
and was carried out with due regard to the good order of the city
and the health of its inhabitants, the aid of the police power could
not be invoked to abrogate or inpair it;
(6) That the stipulation that the city would not erect water works of its
own during the life of the contract did not render it objectionable;
(7) That the objection that the indebtedness created by the contract
exceeded the amount authorized by the charter was without merit,
under the circumstances;
(8) That the act of 1883, being subsequent to the general statute of
1881, authorizing cities to provide for a supply of water, was not
in violation of that act;
(9) That the city was bound to procure the nullity of the contract
before the courts, before it could treat it as void.

THIs was a bill in equity filed by the Water Company to
enjoin the city of Walla Walla and its officers from erecting
water works in pursuance of an. ordinance of the city to that
effect, or from acquiring any property for the purpose of
carrying out such enterprise, or from expending the moneys

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATERS CO.

3

Statement of the Case.

of the city, or selling its bonds or other securities for the
purpose of enabling the city to erect such water works.
The facts are substantially as follows: By an act of the
Territory of Washington, November 28, 1883 (Laws of 1883,
270), incorporating the city of Walla Walla, it was enacted
(section 11) that the city should have "power . . . to
provide

.

.

.

a sufficient supply of water;" and by sec-

tion 10 "to grant the right to use the streets of said city
for the purpose of laying gas and other pipes intended to
furnish the inhabitants of said city with light or water, to
any persons or association of persons for a term not exceeding twenty-five years,

.

.

provided always, that none

.

of the rights or privileges herein granted shall be exclusive,
nor prevent the council from granting the same rights to
others." Other sections are as follows:
"SEc. 11. The city of Walla Walla shall have power to
erect and maintain water works within or without the city
limits or to authorize the erection of the same, for the purpose
of furnishing the city or the inhabitants thereof with a sufficient supply of water,

.

.

.

and to enact all ordinances

and regulations necessary to carry the power herein conferred
into effect; but no water works shall be erected by the city
until a majority of the voters, who shall be those only who
are freeholders in the city, or pay a property tax therein, on
not less than five hundred dollars' worth of property, shall at
a general or special election vote for the same.
"SEc. 12. Said city is hereby authorized and empowered to
condemn and appropriate so much private property as shall
be necessary for the construction and operation of such water
works, and shall have power to purchase or condemn water
works already erected, or which may be erected, and may
mortgage or hypothecate the same to secure to the persons
from whom the same may be purchased the payment of the
purchase price thereof."
"SEc. 22. The city of Walla Walla shall have power to
adopt proper ordinances for the government of the city, and
to carry into effect the powers given by this act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"SEc. 23. The city of Walla Walla shall have power to
establish and regulate the fees and compensation of all its
officers, except when otherwise provided, and have such other
power and privileges not here specifically enumerated as are
incident to municipal corporations."
"SEC. 24. The power and authority hereby given to the
city of Walla Walla by this act shall be vested in a mayor
and council, together with such other officers as are in this
act mentioned, or may be created under its authority."

"SEC. 43. The city council shall possess all the legislative
powers granted by this act."
"

SEC. 103. The rights, powers and duties and liabilities of

the city of Walla Walla and of its several officers shall be
those prescribed in this act, and none others, and this is hereby
declared a public act."
"SEC. 105. The limit of indebtedness of the city of Walla
Walla is hereby fixed at fifty thousand dollars."
Pursuant to these sections of the charter, the city council,
on March 15, 1887, passed "An ordinance to secure a supply
of water for the city of Walla; Walla," by which it granted,
under certain restrictions, to the Water Company, for the,
period of twenty-five years from the date of the ordinance,
"the right to lay, place and maintain all necessary water.
mains, pipes, connections and fittings in all the highways,
streets and alleys of said city, for the purpose of furnishing
the inhabitants thereof with water."
By section 4 the city reserved the right to erect and maintain as many fire hydrants as it should see fit, and, in case of
fire, that the city should have all reasonable and necessary
control of the water for the extinguishment thereof.
The ordinance also contained the following further provisions:
"SEC. 5. The city of Walla Walla shall pay to said Walla

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

5

Statement of the Case.

Walla Water Company for the matters and things above
enumerated, quarter-yearly, on the first days of July, October,
January and April of each year, at the rate of fifteen hundred
dollars ($1500) per annum, for the period of twenty-five (25)
years from and after the date of the passage of this ordinance,
the first quarterly payment to be made on the first day of
October next (October 1, 1887).
"SEC. 6. The city of Walla Walla shall during said period,
without expense for water, be allowed to flush any sewer or
sewers it may hereafter construct, at such time during the day
or night as the water company may-determine, and under the
direction and supervision of such officers as the city may from
time to time designate, not oftener than once each week.
"SEc. '7.For all the purposes above enumerated said Walla
Walla Water Company shall furnish an ample supply of
water, and for domestic purposes, including sprinkling lawns,
shall furnish an ample supply of good wholesome water,
at reasonable rates, to consumers at all times during the
said period of twenty-five (25) years; and this contract shall
be voidable by the city of Walla Walla so far as it requires
the payment of money, upon the judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction, whenever there shall be a substantial failure of such supply, or a substantial failure on the part
of said company to keep or perform any agreement or contract on its part, herein specified or in said contract contained.
But accident or reasonable delay shall not be deemed such
failure. And until such contract shall have been so avoided,
the city of Walla Walla shall not erect, maintain or become
interested in any water works- except the ones herein referred
to, save as hereinafter specified.
"SEC. 8. Neither the existence of said contract nor the
passage of this ordinance shall be construed to be or be a
waiver of or relinquishment of any right of the, city to take,
condemn and pay for the water rights and works of said or
any company at any time, and in case of such condemnation
the existence of this contract shall not be taken into consideration in estimating or determining the value of the said water
works of the said Walla Walla Water Company."

OCTOBER TERI-M

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

The Water Company accepted this ordinance, entered into
a formal contract with the city, and substantially complied
with the terms and conditions of such contract -which has
never been avoided by the city or by the courts, and was still
in force at the time the bill was filed.
After this contract had been in force and the stipulated
rentals paid for about six years, on June 20, 1893, an ordinance was passed "to provide for the construction of a system
of water works" for the purpose of supplying the city and its
inhabitants with water; to authorize the purchase and condemnation of land for that purpose, and the issue of bonds to
the amount of $160,000 to provide the necessary funds. Pursuant to the provisions of such ordinance an election was held
whereby the proposition submitted by the ordinance was carried by a sufficient majority of the legal voters.
The answer of the defendants insisted that the contract of
the city with the plaintiff "was not a valid and binding contract, so far as concerned the stipulation binding the city not
to erect or maintain or become interested in any system of
water works other than that of the plaintiff.
A demurrer to the bill having been overruled, and a preliminary injunction having been granted pursuant to the
prayer of the bill, the case subsequently went to a hearing
upon the pleadings and proofs, and resulted in a decree perpetuating the injunction. From this decree defendants appealed directly to this court, pursuant to section 5 of the
Circuit Court of Appeals act, allowing such appeal in any
case that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States.
2Mr. A. H. Garlandfor appellants. .Ar. J Hamilton ewis
and Mr. le. Garlandwere on his brief.
Mr. John H. Mitchell for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The demurrer to the plaintiff's bill rested principally upon

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

T

Opinion of the Court.

a want of jurisdiotion of the court in certain particulars
hereinafter specified. There was, confessedly no diversity of
citizenship, and the case was treated by the court below as
one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
1. The jurisdiction depends specifically upon the allegation
in the bill that defendants insist that the contract of the city
with the plaintiff was not a valid and binding contract, either
in respect to the stipulation binding the city not to erect,
maintain or become interested ii any system of water works
other than those of the plaintiff, or in respect to the stipulation for furnishing water to the city by the plaintiff; and
that, regardless of plaintiff's rights, the city refuses to be
bound by the contract, and is proposing to borrow money to
erect and maintain water works of its own, and become a
competitor with the plaintiff for the trade and custom of the
consumers of water; that the plaintiff is the owner of property in the city of the value of $125,000, and pays taxes to
the city on the same ; that if the city is permitted to borrow
money and apply the same to. the erection of water works, the
indebtedness will become a cloud and burden upon all taxable
property in the city, and that such loan is inequitable, and
imposes upon the taxpayers a large and unnecessary burden ;
that the value of plaintiff's property is largely dependent upon
the fact of its having no competition, and that the threatened
action of the city has greatly diminished the value of such
property and the credit of the company, and that it finds
itself without the ability to borrow money to make the necessary additions and repairs to its property; and, in short, that
the proposed action of the city is.in fraud of plaintiff's rights
under its contract with the city, and the protection guaranteed
to it under the Constitution of the-United States.
These allegations, upon their face, raise a question of the
power of the city to impair the obligation of its contract with
the plaintiff by the adoption of the ordinance of June 20, 1893.
The argument of the defendant in this connection is that the
action of the city in contracting with the Water Company,
and in passing the ordinance of 1893 providing for the erec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of water works, was not in the exercise of its sovereignty 5
that in these particulars the city was not acting as the agent
of the State, but was merely exercising a power as agent of
its citizens, and representing solely their proprietary interests;
thht the council in such cases, as trustee for the citizens, stands
in the relation to them as directors to stockholders in a private
coiporation, acting solely as the agent of the citizens and
nowise as the agent of the State; and, therefore, that neither
the State nor the city as its agent.can be charged either with
the making or the impairing of the original contract; that for
these-reasons the Constitution of the United States has no
application to the case, the Federal court has no jurisdiction,
and the bill upon its admitted facts, presents only a violation
by a citizen of the State of its cohtract with another citizen,
and the plaintiff is bound to resort to the state courts for its
remedy.
-It may be conceded as a general proposition that there is
a substantial distinction between the acts of a municipality as
the agent of the State for the preservation of peace and the
protection of persons and property, and its acts as the agent
of its citizens for the care and improvement of the public
property and the adaptation of the city for the purposes of
residence and business. Questions respecting this distinction
have usually arisen in actions against the municipality for
the negligence of its officers, in which its liability has been
held to turn upon the questi6n whether the duties of such
officers Were performed in the exercise of public functions or
merely proprietary powers. It is now sought to carry this
distinction a step farther, and to hold that, if a contract be
made by a city in its proprietary capacity, the question
whether such contract has been substantially affected by the
subsequent action of the city does not present one of impair.ment by act of the State or its authorized agent, but one of
an ordinary breach of contract by a private party, and hence
the case does not arise under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and the court has no jurisdiction, unless
there be the requisite diversity of citizenship. How far this
distinction can be carried to defeat the jurisdiction, of the

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

9

Opinion of the Court.

court, or the application of the contract clause, may admit of
considerable doubt, if the contract be authorized by the
charter; but it is sufficient for the purposes of this case to
say that this court has too often decided for the rule to be
now questioned, that the grant of a right to supply gas or
water to a municipality and its inhabitants through pipes and
mains laid in the streets, upon condition of the performance
of its service by the grantee, is the grant of a franchise vested
in the State, in consideration of the performance of a public
service, and after performance by the 'grantee, is a contract
protected by the Constitution of the United States against
state legislation to impair it.
_few Orleans .Gas Co. v.
Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 660; -Yew Orleans Water
W orks Co. v. Rivers, 115 U. S. 674; St. Tammany Wate&r
lMorks v. -New Orleans Water Works, 120 U. S. 64:; Crescent
City Gas Light Co. v. New Orleans Gas Light Co., 27 La. Ann.
138, 147.
It is true that in these cases the franchise was granted
directly by the state legislature, but 'it is equally clear that
such 'franchises may be bestowed upon corporations by the
municipal authorities, provided the right to do so is given by
their charters. State legislatures may not only exercise their
sovereignty directly, but may delegate such portions of it to
inferior legislative bodies as, in their judgment, is desirable
for local purposes. As was said by the Supreme Court of
Ohio in State v. CincinnatiGas Light and Coke Co., 18 Ohio
St. 262, 293: "And assuming that such a power" (graiiting
franchises to establish gas works) "may be exercised directly,
we are not disposed to doubt that it may also be exercised
indirectly, through the agency of a municipal corporation,
clearly invested, for police purposes, with the necessary authority." This case is directly in line with those above cited.
See also IMrigkt v. _Nagle, 101 U. S. 791; Hamilton Gas
Light &¢ Coke Co. v. Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258, 266; Bacon v.
Texas, 163 U. S. 207, 216; .New Orleans c. Co. v. New
Orleans, 164 U. S. 471.
The cases relied upon by the appellant are no authority for
the position assumed, that the Federal court has no jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of a case wherein the charter of a water company is
alleged to have been impaired by subsequent legislation. In
several of these cases the actions were for negligence in the
performance of certain duties which the court held to be
public or privatd, as the case, might be. New Orleans V.
AIbbagnato, 23 U. S. App. 533, 515; laxrmiliar,v. Mayor, 62
N. Y. 160; lfesterrm College v. Cleveland, 12 Ohio St. 375.
In Safety Insulated W ire & Cable Co. v. Baltimore, 25 U. S.
App. 166, a contract to put electric wires under ground was
held to be for the private advantage of the city as a legal
personality, distinct from considerations connected with the
government of the State at large, and that with reference to
such contracts the city must be regarded as a private corporation. The contract was held to be one into which the city
could lawfully enter, but no question of jurisdiction was made.
In Illinois Trust &c. Bank v. Arkansas, 40 U. S. App. 257, the
power to contract for water works was held to be for the
private benefit of the inhabitants of the city, and that in
the exercise of these powers a municipality was governed by
the same rules as a private corporation, but the jurisdiction
of the case was apparently dependent upon citizenship.
We know of no case in which it has been held that an
ordinance, alleged to impair a prior contract with a gas or
water company, did not create a case under the Constitution
and laws of the United States. Granting that in respect to
the two classes of cases aboye mentioned, responsibilities of a
somewhat different character are imposed upon a municipality
in the execution of its contracts, our attention has not been
called to an authority where the application of the constitutional provision as to the impairment of contracts has been made
to turn upon the question whether -the contract was executed
by the city in its sovereign, or proprietary capacity, provided'
the right to make such contract was conferred by the charter.
We do not say that this question might not become a serious
one; that, with respect to a particular contract, the municipality might not stand in the character of a private corporation; but the cases wherein the charter of a gas or water
company have been treated as falling within the constitutional

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO. 11
Opinion of the Court

provision, are altogether too numerous to be now questioned or
even to justify citation.
2. The argument which attacks thejurisdiction of the court
upon the ground that the complaint is devoid of facts showing
any matter which vests jurisdiction, goes rather to the sufficiency of the pleadi. than to the jurisdiction of the court.
Even if this objection had been sustained, the difficulty could
have been easily obviated by amendment. We think, however, that it sufficiently appears that, if the city were allowed
to erect and maintain competing water works, the value of
those of the plaintiff company would be materially impaired,
if not practically destroyed. The city might fix such prices
as it chose for its water, and might even furnish it free of
charge to its citizens, and raise the funds for maintaining the
works by a general tax. It would be under no obligation to
conduct them for a profit, and the citizens would naturally
take their water where they could procure it chreapest. The
plaintiff, upon the other hand, must carry on its business at a
profit, or the investment becomes a total loss. The question
whether the city should supply itself with water, or contract
with a private corporation to do so, presented itself when the
introduction of water was first proposed, and the city made its
choice not to establish works of its own. Indeed, it expressly
agreed, in contracting with the plainbiff, that until such contracts should be avoided by a substantial failure upon the
part of the company to perform it, the city should not erect,
maintain or become interested in any water works except the
plaintiff's. To requite the plaintiff to' aver specifically how
the establishment of competing water works would injure the
value of its property, or deprive it of the rent agreed by
the city to be paid, is to demand that it should set forth
facts of general knowledge, -and within the common observation of men. That which is patent to any one of average
understanding need not be particularly averred.
3. The objection that a court of equity has no jurisdiction,
because the plaintiff has a complete and adequate remedy'at
law, is equally untenable. Obviously it has no present remedy
at law, since the city has done nothing in violation of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

covenant not to erect competing water works and the Water
Company has as yet suffered no damage. It is true that after
the city shall have gone to the great expense of erecting a
plant of its own and of entering into competition with the
plaintiff company, the latter would doubtless have a remedy
at law for breach of the covenant. In the meantime great,
perhaps irreparable, ,damage would have been done to the
plaintiff. What the measure of such damage was would be
exceedingly difficult of ascertainment and would depend
largely upon the question whether the value of the plaintiff's
plant was destroyed or merely impaired. It would be impossible to say what would be the damage incurred at any particular moment, since such damage might be more or less
dependent upon whether the competition of the city should
ultimately destroy, or only interfere with the business of the
plaintiff.
This court has repeatedly declared in affirmance of the
generally accepted proposition that the remedy at law, in
order to exclude a concurrent remedy at equity, must be as
coniplete, as practical and as efficient to the ends of justice
and its prompt administration, as the remedy in equity.
Boyce'S Eecutor8 r. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210, 215; -n. Co. v.
Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 621; "ilbourn v. Sunderland,130 U. S.
505,.514; Tyler v. Savage, 143 U. S. 79, 95.
Where irreparable injury is threatened, or the 'damage be
of such a nature that it cannot be adequately compensated by
an action at law, or is such as, from its continuance, to occasion
a constantly recurring grievance, the party is not ousted of his
remedy by injunction. In such a case as this, the remedy will
save to one party or the other a large pecuniary loss - to the
city,'if it be obliged to pay to the plaintiff damages occasioned
by the establishment of its competing works ; -to the plaintiff,
if it be adjudged that the city has a right to do so.
But it is further insisted in this connection that, under section 8 of the contract, the city had the right at any time to
take and condemn the water works of the company, and that,
in case of such condemnation, the contract should not be taken
into consideration in estimating the value of the water works;

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

13

Opinion of the Court.

and hence, that if the city elected to establish water works
of its own, without condemning those of the plaintiff company,
the value of such water works would furnish the proper measure of damages in such action. This argument necessarily
assumes, however, that the damages in such action would be
the same as in a- proceeding for condemnation. Perhaps if
the plaintiff company were forced to abandon its Works entirely by the competition of the city, the value 6f such works
might furnish the measure. of its compensation; but it could
not be forced to do this, and if the company elected not to
abandon, but to enter into competition with the city, the damages
would have to be estimated by the probable injury done to the
company by such competition. This, as above indicated, would
furnish a most uncertain basis.
4. The case upon the merits depends largely upon the
power of Ihe city under its charter. The ordinance authorizing
the cotiract, which purports to have been passed in pursuance
of this charter, declared that until such contract should be
avoided by a court of competent jurisdiction, the city should
not erect, maintain or become interested in any water works
except the ones established by the company, while the ordinance of June 20, 1893, provided for the immediate construetion of a system of water works by the city for the purpose
of supplying the city and its inhabitants with water. Upon
the face of the two ordinances there was a plain conflict- the
latter clearly impaired the obligation of the former.
The argument of the city is that the council exceeded its
powers in authorizing the contract with the Water Company
for a continuous supply of water and the payment of rentals
for twenty-five years, and that such contract was specially
obnoxious in its stipulation that the city should not construct
water works of its own during the life of the contract. The
several objections to the contract are specifically stated by
counsel for thd' city in their brief as follows:
a. The contract creates a monopoly which, in the absence
af an express grant from the legislature of power so to do or
such power necessarily implied, is void as in contravention of
-public policy;

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

b. The contract is void as an attempt to contract away a
part of the governmental power of the city council;
c. The contract is void as creating an indebtedness in excess
of the charter limits;
d. The contract is in violation of the express provision of a
general statute of the Territory of Washington.
By section 10 of the city charter, the city is authorized
"to grant the right to use the streets of said city for the purpose of laying gas and other pipes intended to furnish the
inhabitants of said city with light or water, to any persons or
association of persons for a term not exceeding twenty-five
years,

.

.

.

provided always, that none of the rights or

privileges hereinafter granted shall be exclusive or prevent
the council from granting the said rights to others;" and
by section 11 "the city of Walla Walla shall have power to
erect and maintain water works within or without the city
limits, or to authorize the erection of the same for the purpose
of furnishing the city, or the inhabitants thereof, with a sufficient supply of water."
As the contract in question was expressly limited to twentyfive years, and as no attempt was made to grant an exclusive privilege to the -Water Company, the city seems to have
acted within the strictest limitation of the charter. Atlantic
City Water Works v. Atlantic City, 48 N. J. Law, 378.
Had the privilege granted been an exclusive one, the- contract might-be considered objectionable upon the ground that
it created a monopoly without an express sanction of the legislature to that effect. It is true that in City of Brenham v.
Brenham Water Works, 67 Texas, 542, a city ordinance granting to the water company the right and privilege for the term of
twenty-five yeams of supplying the city with water,. for which
the city agreed to pay an annual rental for each hydrant, th6
Supreme Court of Texas held to be the grant of an exclusive
privilege to the water company for the period named. The
decision seems to have been rested largely upon the use of the
words "privilege" and "supplying "- words which are not
found in the contract in this case. Without expressing an opinion upon the point involved in that case, we are content to say

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

15

Opinion of the Court.

that an ordinance granting a right to a water -company for
twenty-five years to lay and maintain water pipes for the purpose of furnishing the inhabitants of a city with water, does
not, in our opinion, create a monopoly or prevent the granting of a similar franchise to another company. Particularly
is this so when taken in connection with a further stipulation
that the city shall not erect water works of its own. This
provision is not devoid of an implication that it was intended
to exclude only competition from itself, an4 not from other
parties whom it might choose to invest with a similar franchise.
5. The argument that the contract is void as an attempt to
barter away the legislative power of the city council rests
upon the assumption that contracts for supplying a city with
water are within the police power of the city, and may be
controlled, managed or abrogated at the pleasure of the council. This court has doubtless held that the police power is
one which remains constantly under the control of the legislative authority, and that a city council can neither bind itself,
nor its successors, to contracts prejudicial to the peace, good
order, health or morals of its inhabitants; but it is to cases
of this class that these rulings have been confined.
If a contract be objectionable in itself upon these grounds,
or if it become so in its execution, the municipality may, in
the exercise of its police power, regulate the manner in which
it may be carried out, or may abrogate it entirely, upon the
principle that it cannot bind itself to any course of action
which shall prove deleterious to the health or morals of its
inhabitants. In such case an appeal to the contract clause of
the Constitution is ineffectual. Thus in Fertilizing Co. v.
Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659, an act of the General Assembly -of
Illinois authorized the Fertilizing Company to establish and
maintain for fifty years certain chemical works for the purpose of converting'dead animals into agricultural fertilizers,
and to maintain depots in Chicago for the purpose of receiving and carrying out of the city dead animals and other
animal matter which it might buy or own. Subsequently,
the charter of the village of Hyde Park was revised, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

power given it to define or abate nuisances injurious to the
public health. It was held that under this power the village
had the right to prohibit the carrying of dead animals, or
offensive matter, through the streets; that the charter of the
company was a sufficient license until revoked, but was not
a contract guaranteeing that the company might continue to
carry on a business which had become a nuisance by the growth
of population around its works, or that it should be exempt for
fifty years from an exercise of the police power of the State,
citing Coates v. .Mayor &c.of New York, 7 Cowen, 585.
Substantially, the same ruling was made in But chers' Union
Co. v. Crescent City &c. Co., 111 U. S. 746, wherein an act of the
legislature of Louisiana, granting exclusive privileges for maintaining slaughter houses, was held to be sthbject to subsequent
ordinances of the city of Nev Orleans opening to general
competition the right to build slaughter houses.
The same principle has been applied to charters for the
maintenance of lotteries which, upon grounds of public policy,
have been held to be mere licenses and subject to abrogation
in the exercise of the police power of the government; Boyd
v. Alabama, 94: U. S.645 ; Stone v..Mi88i8sippi,101. U S. 814;
Douglas v. .entucky, 168 U. S.488; as well as to laws regulating the liquor traffic, Beer Co. v. MfaesaClu8ett8, 97 U. S.
25; .MetropolitanBoard of Ewieoise v. Barrie, 34 N. Y. 657;
and even laws regulating the inspection of coal oil; Urnited
States v. DeWitt, 9 Wall. 41; Patterson v. ifentuoeky, 97 U. S.
501. In the latter case it was held that a person holding "a
patent under the laws of the Ufiited States for an invention
was not protected by such patent in selling oil condemned by
a state inspector as unsafe for illuminating purposes.
Under this power and the analogous power of taxation we
should have no doubt that. the city council might take such
measures as were necessary or prudent to secure the purity of
the water furnished uner the contract of the company, the
payment of 'its just contributions to the public burdens, and
the observance of its own ordinances respecting the manner
in which the pipes and mains of the company should be laid
through the streets of the city. .Now York 'v. Squire, 145

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

17

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 175; St. .ouia v. Wern Union. Tel. Co., 148 U. S.
92; Laclede Gas Light Co.. v. Murphy, 170 U. S. 78. But
where a contract for a supply of water is innocuous in itself
and is carried out with due regard to the good order of the.
city and the health of its inhabitants, the aid of the police
power cannot be invoked to-abrogate or impair it.
6. Nor do we think the contract objectionable in its stipulation that the city would not erect water works of its Qwn
during the life of the contract. There was no attempt made
to create a monopoly by granting an exclusive right to this
company, and the agreement that the city would not erect
water works of its own was accompanied, in section 8 of the
contract, with a reservation o.f a right to take, condemn and
pay for the water works of the company at any time during
the existence of the contract. Taking sections 7 and 8 together, they amount simply to this: That if the city should
desire to establish water works of its own it would do so by
condemning the property of the company and making such
changes in its plant or such additions thereto as it might
deem desirable for the better supply of its inhabitants; but
that it would not enter into a direct competition with the
company during the life of the contract. As such competition would be almost necessarily ruinous to the company, it
was little more than an agreement that the city would carry
out the contract in good faith.
An agreement of this kind was a natural incident to the
main purpose of the contract, to the power given to the city
by its charter to provide a sufficient supply of water, and to
grant the right to use the streets of the city for the purpose of laying water pipes to any persons or association of
persons for a term not exceeding twenty-five years. In establishing a system of water works the company would necessarily incur a large expense in the construction of the power
house and the laying of its pipes through the streets, and, as
the life of the contract was limited to twenty-five years, it
would naturally desire to protect itself from competition as
far as possible, and would have a right to expect that at least
the city would not itself enter into such competition. It is not
VOL. cLt-xii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to be supposed that the company would have entered upon
this: large undertaking in view of the possibility that, in one
of the sudden changes of public opinion to which all municipalities are more or less subject, the city might. resolve to
enter the field itself-a field in which it undoubtedly would
have become the master-and practically extinguish the
rights it had already granted to the company. We think
a disclaimer of this kind was within the fair intendment of
the contract, and that a stipulation to that effect was such a
one as the city might lawfully make as an incident of the
principal undertaking.
Cases are not infrequent where under a general power to
cause the streets of a city to be lighted, or to furnish its
inhabitants with a supply of water, without limitation as to
'time,.it has been held that the city has no right to grant an
exclusive franchise for a period of years; but these cases do
not touch upon the question how far the city, in the exercise
of an undoubted power, to make a particular contract, can
hedge it about with limitations designed to do little more than
bind the city to carry out the contract in good faith, and with
decent regard for the rights of the other party. The more
prominent of these cases are Jltintu~rn v. Larue, 23 How.
435; Wright v. Nagle, 101 U. S. 791; State v. Cincinnati
Gas Light & Coke Co., 18 Ohio St. 262; Logan v. Pyne, 43
Iowa, 524:; Jackson Go. 1orse Railroad v. Rapid Transit
Railway Co., 24: Fed. Rep. 306; Norwich Gas Co. v. _Norwich
City Gas Co., 25 Conn. 19; Saginaw Gas Light Co. v. Saginaw, 28 Fed. Rep. 529; Grand Rapids Electric Light and
Power Co. v. Grand Rapids Edison &cf. Gas Co., 33 Fed.
Rep. 659; Gale v. Kalamazoo, 23 Michigan, 344. These cases
furnish little or no support to the proposition for which they
are cited.
If, as alleged in the answer, the Water Company failed to
carry out its contract, and the supply furnished was inadequate for domestic, sanitary or fire purposes, and the pressure
so far insufficient that in many parts of the city water could
not be carried above the first story of the buildings, the
seventh section of the contract furnished an adequate and

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

19

Opinion of the Court.

complete remedy by an application to the courts to declare
the contract void.
7. The objection that the indebtedness created by this contract exceeds the amount authorized by the charter raises a
serious though by no means a novel question. The objection
is founded upon section 105 of the charter, which enacts
"that the limit of indebtedness of the city of Walla Walla is
hereby fixed at fifty thousand dollars," and, upon the allegation in the bill that the city, at the date of the contract,
was indebted in a sum exceeding $16,000. The cit r, by section 5 of its ordinance and contract with the Water Company,
agreed to pay a rental of $1500 per annum for twenty-five
years, or an aggregate amount of $37,500, which, added to
the existing indebtedness of $16,000, would create a debt exceeding the limited amount of $50,000.
There is a considerable conflict of authority respecting the
proper construction of such limitations in municipal charters.
There can be no doubt that if the city proposed to purchase
outright, or establish a system of water works of its own, the
section would apply, though bonds were issued therefor made
payable in the future. Buchanan v. LithX/eld, 102 U. S.
278; Culbertson v. Fulton, 127 Illinois, 80; Coulson v. Portland, Deady, 481; State v. Atlantic City, 49 N. J. Law, 558;
Syilman v. Parkersburg,35 W. Va. 605; Beard v. Hopkinsille, 95 Kentucky, 239. There are also a number of respectable authorities to the effect that the limitation covers a case
where the city agrees to pay a certain sum per annum, if the
aggregate amount payable under such agreement exceeds the
amount limited by the charter. Niles Water Works v. Niles,
59 Michigan, 311;
phum
heys v. Bayonne, 55 . J. Law,
241; Salem Water Co. v. Salem, 5 Oregon, 29.
But we think the weight of authority, as well as of reason,
favors the more liberal construction that a municipal corporation may contract for a supply of water or gas or like necessary, and may stipulate for the payment of an annual -rental
for the gas or water furnished each year, notwithstanding the
aggregate of its rentals during the life of the contract may
exceed the amount of the indebtedness limited by the charter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

There is a distinction between a debt and a contract for a
future indebtedness to be incurred, provided the contracting
party perform the agreement out of which the debt may arise.
There is also a distinction between the latter case and one
where an absolute debt is created at once, as by the issue of
railway bonds, or for the erection of a public improvement,
though such debt be payable in the future by instalments.
In the one case the indebtedness is not created until the consideration has been furnished; in the other the debt is created
at once, the time of payment being only postponed.
In the case under consideration the annual rental did not
become an indebtedness within the meaning of the' charter
until the water appropriate to that year had been furnished.
If'the company had failed to furnish it, the rental would not
have been payable at all, and while the original contract provided for the creation of an indebtedness, it was only upon
condition that the company performed its own obligation.
Wood v. Partridge,11 .Mass. 488, 493. A different construction might be disastrous to the interests of*the city, since it is
obviously debarred from purchasing or establishing a plant of
its own, exceeding in value the limited amount, and is forced
to contract with some company ihich is willing to incur the
large expense necessary in erecting water works upon the faith
of the city paying its annual renfals. Smith v. Dedham, 144
Mass. 177; Crowder v. Sullivan, 128 Indiana, 486; Saleno v.
Neosho, 127 Missouri, 627; Va-4paraisov. Gardner,97 Indiana,
1; New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. New Orlean', 42 La. Ann.
188; Merrill Railway & Lighting Co. v. .Merrill,80 Wisconsin,
358; Veston v. Syracuse, 17 N. Y. 110; East t. Louis v.East
8t. -Louis Lighting Co., 98 Illinois, 415; Grant v. Daverport,
36 Iowa, 396; -Lottv. Waycross, 84 Georgia, 681; Burlington
Water Co. v. Woodward; 49 Iowa, 58.
The obvious purpose of limitations of this kind in municipal
charters is to prevent the improvident contracting of debts for
other than the ordinary current expenses of the municipality.
It certainly has no reference to debts incurred for 'the salaries
of municipal officers, members of the fire and police departments, school teachers or other salaried employ6s to whom

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

21:

Opinion of the Court.

the city necessarily becomes indebted in the ordinary conduct
of municipal affairs, and for the discharge of which money is
annually raised by taxation. For all purposes necessary to
the exercise of their corporate powers they are at liberty to
make contracts regardless of the statutory limitation, provided,
at least, that the amount to be raised each year does not exceed the indebtedness allowed by the charter. Among these
purposes is the prevention of fires, the purchase of fire engines,
the pay of firemen and the supply of water by the payment
of annual rentals therefor.
It is true that in the case of Lake County v. Rollins, 130
U. S. 662, it was held by this court that a similar provision in
the constitution of Colorado was an absolute limitation upon
the power to contract any and all indebtedness, including warrants used for county expenses such as for witness and jurors'
fees, election costs, charges for board of prisoners, county treasurers' commissions, etc.; but the case is readily distinguishable
from the one under consideration. That was a suit against a
county upon a large number of warrants for current expenses,
the defence being a want of authority on the part of the
county commissioners to issue warrants which had been put
forth after the limit of indebtedness had been reached and
even exceeded. They were held to be void. The case is
authority for the proposition that if the annual rentals, payable in this case, with the other expenses, exceeded the limit
of indebtedness, the transaction would be void; but; as it
appears that the limit of indebtedness was $50,000 and the
amount of the city debt but $16,000, it is clear that the payment of an annual rental of but $1500 would be unobjectionable upon this ground. If such annual rentals exceeded the
limit of indebtedness a different question would be presented.
8. Further objection is made to this contract upon the
ground that it is violative of a general statute of the Territory of Washington, enacted December 1, 1881, authorizing
cities, etc., to provide for a supply of water. By the first section of this act all cities are authorized to contract for a term
not exceeding twenty-five years with corporations for a supply
of water, but section 2 states that before any such contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be -entered into, the terms of the proposed contract shall
be submitted to a vote of the taxpayers at a special election
to be called by the council after a notice of three weeks. As
no such election was held to ratify the contract in this case,
it is insisted that the city council was never authorized to
enter into it.
We are of opinion, however, that the general act of 1881
was, so far as it applied to the city of Walla Walla, superseded
by the charter of November 28, 1883, which provided that
the city might enter into contracts for the purpose of supplying its inhabitants with water without any further requirement that an election should be held to ratify such contract.
That no such ratification by the electors was intended is also
evident from section 11 of the charter, which enacts that no
water works shall be erected by the city without a vote of a
majority of its freeholders. The fact that such ratification
was required where water works were to be erected, and that
no mention was made of a vote where the city contracted with
a corporation for such purpose, clearly evinces an intent on the
part of the legislature to permit the city to make a contract
for a limited term without appealing to the people for their
assent. While the special act is silent with reference to the
ratification of contracts to supply water, we think the maxim
ex7ressio wnius est exclusio alteriu= is applicable, and that it

was clearly the intention of the legislature to supersede the
general law in that particular, leaving the general law to
stand where it is proposed that the city shall erect and maintain water works of its own.
9. Finally, it is argued, that upon the facts of this case it
clearly appears that the plaintiff company has failed to comply with its contract to furnish an ample supply of good and
wholesome water; that the pressure in the mains was not
sufficient for fire protection, or for domestic purposes and
irrigation of lawns; that the pressure was not a*sufficient
supply for satisfactory use in the second stories of buildings;
that several of the city additions are higher than the reservoir,
and cannot be supplied from them, etc.
We are of opinion, however, that these fabts cannot be set up

WALLA WALLA v. WALLA WALLA WATER CO.

23

Opinion of the Court.

in defence to this bill. By the express provision of section 7
of the contract ordinance, it was made voidable by the city
of Walla Walla so far as it iequired the payment of money,
upon the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, whenever there should be a substantial failure of 9upply, or a failure
on the part of the company to keep or perform any agreement
on its part specified in the contract, and until "so avoided" the
city would not erect water works of its own. Had the city
failed to pay its quarterly rentals, we should have no doubt
that in an action to recover the same it might set up the failure of the company to perform its contract. Perhaps it might
itself institute an action for that purpose, but we do not think
it within the power of the city to constitute itself the judge,
and to proceed to erect water works of its own upon the
theory that the company had failed to carry out its contract, without, in the language of section 7, obtaining the
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction to that effect.
As the section provides the manner in which the failure of
the company shall be legally established, we think the city
was bound to pursue this course before taking steps to erect
water works of its own. We have already held that so long
as the contract remained in force the city had no right to
establish water works, but under section 7 of the ordinance
and contract the failure of the company to furnish a sufficient supply did not of itself avoid the contract. It rendered
the contract voidable, not void. The city was bound to procure its nullity before the courts before it could treat it as
void. Whether if a sudden emergency arose, requiring immediate action on the part of the city to procure a further supply, or to preserve the health of its inhabitants, a preliminary
avoidance of the contract would be necessary, is a question not
involved in this case, and upon which we express no opinion.
There was no pretence that the water was impure, and the
evidence was conflicting upon the sufficiency of the supply.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that the decree of
the Circuit Court must be
Afi-med.

