534

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT COMPANY v. LANSDEI.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 48. Argued October 17, 1S, 1898. -Decided

January 16, 1899.

In order to hold a corporation liable for the torts of any of its agents, the
act in question must be performed in the course and within the scope of
the agent's employment in the business of the principal.
A corporation can, however, also be held responsible for acts of its agent,
not strictly within its corporate powers, which were assumed to be performed for It by an agent competent to employ the corporate powers
actually exercised; but in such case, there must be evidence of sonie facts
from which the authority of the agent to act upon or in relation to the
subject-matter involved may be fairly and legitimately inferred by the
court or jury, though this evidence need not necessarily be in writing.
Wien the only conclusion to be drawn from such evidence is a want of authority, the question is one for the court to decide without submitting
it to the jury.
In this case the court should have directed a verdict for the corporation on
the ground that there was an entire lack of evidence on which to base a
verdict against it.
The'judgment in this case against Mr. Bailey also should be reversed, as
it is not supported by -the evidence.
in an action in tort brought In the District of Columbia, the common law
rule prevails thatf those defendants who are sued together and found
guilty are liable for the whole injury to the plaintiff, without examining
the question of the different degrees of culpability; and as evidence of
the wealth of the corporation defendant was admitted in evidence
against all the defendants as a ground for punitive damages, and as the
individual defendants were joined by the voluntary act of the plaintiff,
the court is of opinion that It was not admissible as against them.
Evidence of the wealth of one of the defendants in an action of tort is
inadmissible as a foundation for computing or determining the amount of
such damages against all.
In a case of this character, where the line between compensatory and punitive damages is vague, it is impossible to say that, by merely charging
the jury that punitive damages cannot be recovered, the effect of incompetent evidence received as to the wealth of one of the defendants was
thereby removed, or that the verdict of the jury can be held to have been
based solely upon the competent evidence in the ease.
Where a judgment is based upon a cause of action of such a nature that It
might work injustice to one party defendant, if it were to remain intact •
as against him, while reversed for error as to the other defendants, the
power exists In the court, founded upon such fact of possible injustice,
to reverse the judgment in toto, and grant a new trial in regard to all the
defendants.

WASILNGTO"

GAS LIGHT CO. v. LA NSDEN.

535

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr.1. Ross Perry and MT'.
tiffs in error.

alter D. Davidge for plain-

Ar. J J. Darlington for defendant in error.
Altheu8 Johnson was on his brief.

M1n. JusTicE :P.oEKHA

.M'. J.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the defendant in error, plaintiff below, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
against the Washington Gas Light Company; John R. Mc
Lean, its president; Charles B. Bailey, its secretary; William
B. Orme, its assistant secretary; and John Leetch, its general
manager. The action was brought to recover damages for
an alleged libel which the plaintiff stated the defendants had
published or caused to be published of and concerning him in
a periodical prin'ed in the city of New York called The Progressive Age. I',e plaintiff recovered a verdict of $12,500
against the corporation defendant, its secretary Bailey, and
its general manager Leetch. There seems to have been no
finding as to the 6ther defendants.
Those defendants against whom the verdict was rendered
brought the case by appeal to the Court of Appeals for the
District, where the judgment was affirmed, and the defehdants then brought the case here on writ of error.
-It appears from the declaration that a committee of the
House of Representatives, in January, 1893, having in charge
the sundry civil appropriation bill, had therein provided that
not more than seventy-five cents per thousand feet should be
paid for gas used in the government buildings in the District
of Columbia. The gas company desired to defeat this provision in the bill, and the president Mr. M-cLean, sent for the
plaintiff below, who was general manager of the company, for
the purpose of inquiring what the plaintiff could testify to in
regard to the price of gas if called before the committee.
The president asked the plaintiff to furnish him with a writ-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ten memorandum showing generally what he could testify to
and which he might use as a basis for questions to be put to
him by some member of the committee. The plaintiff wrote
out such a memorandum, but did not mention therein the
cost of gas to the defendant company, and when the president
noticed the omission he asked the plaintiff what the cost
would be, and plaintiff stated that that was a matter which
should come from the chief officers of the company, and
which was unknown to him.
The plaintiff did not testify before the committee at that
session of Congress.
Thereafter and in February, 1894, and when not requested
by the president of the company or any of its officers or
agents, the plaintiff did appear before a committee of Congress, and did testify to figures at which plaintiff supposed
gas could be actually produced and furnished in the city of
Washington.
The plaintiff then alleged that the defendants in the month
of February, 1894, published or caused to be published in a
newspaper or periodical called The Progressive Age, which
was printed in the city of New York, and widely circulated as
an organ devoted to the interests of gas producers and manufacturers throughout the country, the libel in question.
The article states in substance as follows: The plaintiff
had once filled the position of general manager of the gas
company, which he had resigned in June, 1893, and that in
his testimony before the Congressional committee in 1894
the plaintiff had arrayed himself within the ranks of those
who sought to tear down and lay waste the business and
emoluimnents of his former employers. He gave testimony
which was reported through the land and was of such a
nature as was calculated to do the utmost harm to gas interests everywhere. The figures supplied by Mr. Lansden of the
cost of gas were startling, and only a year ago (in 1893) a
similar inquiry emanating from the same quarter was instituted before a Congressional committee against the Washington Gas Light Company, and plaintiff appeared as a witness
in behalf of the company; that he then occupied the position

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LANSDIN_.

537.

Opinion of the Court

of general manager of the company, and his testimony then,
as compared with that given subsequently, was sadly at variance; that he had there testified before the committee that
it cost 48.38 cents per thousand to manufacture gas in the
holder, and 40.09 cents per thousand for distribution, and that
he knew of but one way that a small amount could be saved,
and that was by reducing the salaries of the clerks and the
price paid to the laborers, which the company would not like
to do. In 1804, before a committee of Congress, the plaintiff
testified that from his knowledge of the business and the condition of affairs at Washington, the gas company could sell
gas and pay a reasonable profit at a dollar a thousand. He
stated that in his opinion the gas could .be manufactured and
put in the holder for about thirty-two c6nts a thousand feet,
and that it ought to be distributed for from twenty to twentytwo cents a thousand, which would make the whole cost from
fifty-two to fifty-four cents per thousand. The article then
continued:
"From the foregoing extracts of this witness' testimony
only one of two conclusions can be arrived at, and we, are
too sensible of the reader's power of analysis and feel' too
keenly for the witness to heap coals of fire on the head of
one who, it is only too evident, has allowed his sense of justice
to be distorted by real or fancied grievances. The testimony
given by Mr. Lansden in 1893 states in effect that there is no
way open to his company by which it could reduce the cost
of manufacturing gas. In 1894: he tells the committee that- taxes and repairs added, items not considered in the inquiry of the previous year- the cost of gas delivered to
the consumer could be brought within seventy cents, or about
eighteen and one half cents less per thousand than he quoted
as the lowest manufacturing and distributing cost the year
before; and yet Mr. Lansden must know that the generating
apparatus at the Washington works is the same as when he
filled the position as superintendent; that the cost of all
materials used, coal and labor are just the same, save only
naphtha, which is now higher in price than when he testified
a year ago."

5381

OCTOBER TERMY, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

For publishing or causing to be published this article the
plaintiff brought this action.
The defendants joined in their plea of not guilty, and the
plaintiff joined issue thereon. After verdict a motion for a
new trial was made and denied, and judgment entered upon
the verdict.
The questions which present themselves in this record relate
primarily to the liability of each of the plaintiffs in error, and
those questions depend for their proper solution upon the evidence set forth in the record.
And first in regard to the liability of the corporation.
From the evidence it appears that at the time of the publication of the libel John Leetch was the general manager of
the gas company. After the plaintiff had been sworn before
the Congressional committee, in February, 1894, one E. C.
Brown, who was the publisher of the periodical called The
Progressive Age, and who lived in the iity of New York,
-wrote a letter, under date New York, February 12, 1894,
addressed on the inside to the Washington Gas Light Company, Washington, D. C. That letter reads as follows:
"Gentlemen: I have watched with great interest the continued reports of the proceedings against your company, as
published in the local newspapers of your city, and I have
been somewhat surprised at the character and extent of Mr.
Lansden's testimony. Were his statements correctly reported
in the Washington Star of 3d inst.? Newspapers all over the
country are taking up his figures and using them to suit their
own ends against home companies. Any information you
would care to give us concerning the object of Mr. Lansden's
attack will be considered confidential as to source of information.
"Very truly yours,

The envelope enclosing this letter was addressed to "John
Leetch, Manager Washington Gas Light Co."
In reply to that letter, Mr. Leetch wrote the following:

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LANSDEN.

539

Opinion of the Court.

"WA HisGTON, D. C., Feb. 13, 1894.
"E. C. BxowN; Esq, Publisher Progressive Age,
"2S0 Broadway, N. Y.
"Dear Sir: I have just now received yours of the 12th
instant, relative to the statement made by Mr. T. G. Lansden,
former sup't of the Washington Gas Light Company, before
the investigating committee of Congress to reduce the price
of gas in this city.
"As Mr. Lansden is no longer in the employ of the gas
company, the motive was generally understood that prompted
his statement.
"As the newspapers in Washington gave a correct version
of his statement, there is no doubt he said that gas could be
furnished at the meter for seventy cents and to the consumer
for $1.00 per 1000 cubic feet. This price at the meter was
exclusive of repairs, services, etc.
"Under a former Tesolution of Congress, bearing date of
February, 1893, Mr Lansden was called upon to answer certain questions bearing upon the reduction of price of gas in
Washington, and made the following replies:
"' Q. What does gas cost to manufacture at your works?
"'A. It costs us 48.38 c. per thousand in the holder and
40.09 c. per thousand for distribution.
"'Q. Can you in any way reduce the cost of gas in the
.manufacturing so your company could sell for less to the consumer?
"'A. I know of but one way that a small amount could
be saved-that is, by reducing the salaries of our clerks
and the price paid to our laborers. This we would -not like
to do.
"'Q. How do the prices charged for lamps in Washington
compare with other cities?
"'A. They are as low as any where the same amount of
gas is burned to the lamp and the same number of hours
lighted in the year,.and when the company lights and cleans
the lamps.
"You will notice that he makes a difference of about 181cents per 1000 feet then as compared with his statement now,

. OCTOBER TER.M, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

although he must know that the material used, coal and
labor, is just the same now as then, except price of naphtha,
which is higher. You can try to reconcile the two statements.
"Very truly, yours, " JOHN LEETCH,

"General .Manager."
There is no evidence that any other officer of the company
or any member of its board of directors advised or requested
Mr. Leetch to send this letter or was cognizant of his intention in that regard. Mr. Leetch swore that the letter was
written by him unaided, and that the letter from Brown was
a personal letter, and he answered it as such.
After Leetch received the letter, and before he answered it,
he had a conversation with Mr. Bailey, the secretary, in which
he informed the secretary that he had received such a letter,
and he then showed it to Bailey, who read it and returned it to
Leetch. Bailey then said to Leetch that he (Bailey) had a
paper in plaintiff's handwriting, where he stated "that the
price of gas was so and so, and that the price of distribution
was so aid so," and he then gave Leetch the paper. Bailey
said he did not know what. Leetch wanted with it, amd he
thought nothing more about it; that Leetch took the paper
and went off to his room, and Bailey never saw it again or
heard of it until after Leetch's letter was written and sent.
Bailey swore he knew nothing about Leetch's letter in answer
to Brown until after it was sent, and that he gave no data to
Leetch to reply to the letter, but simply told Leetch as matter of fact the plaintiff had said that gas could be made and
sold at a profit at a dollar a thousand.
On the 14th of February, 1894, Mr. Brown wrote another
letter, addressed to John Leetch, general manager, Washington Gas Light Company, Washington, D. C., in which he
asked for more details in regard to the testimony of plaintiff
before the committee of Congress. Receiving no reply, Mr.
Brown, under date of February 19, again wrote Leetch, asking for the details as mentioned in his preceding letter of the
14th. This letter was answered as follows:

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LANSDEN.

541

Opinion of the Court.

"E. C. BROWN, Esq., Publisher Progressive Age,
"280 Broadway, N. Y.
"Dear Sir: I am in receipt of yours of the 14th and 19th
instant. This delay in reply was my inability to secure a
copy of report of proceedings before investigating committee
of Congress. Only about twenty copies have thus far been
printed for use of committee.
"To-day I received a copy, which I herewith enclose for
your use.
"Respectfully,
"JoHN LEETcyr,

"General XiJqnager."
There is no evidence showing that this letter was either
written by authority of any officer or director of the company, or that any such officer or director had any knowledge
in regard to it.
It appeared in evidence that some time after Leetch answered the letters he placed them among papers of the company in the secretary's office, and they were so placed, .because,
as Mr. Leetch testified, it was a matter that bad then assumed
a position when it was necessary to save the letters, and he
therefore placed them in the care and custody of the secretary.
Mr. Leetch further testified that none of the letters written
by him were written in his capacity as general manager of
the company; that they were written by him as a mere per-.
sonal matter, altogether exclusive of any duty that he owed
the gas company; that the gas company had no interest
in the matter, and that he merely wrote them as an act of
courtesy, stating the facts.
It also appeared that all the letters written by Mr. Leetch
to Mr. Brown were copied by Leetch into the letter book
of the company kept in the secretary's office, all the letters in
which book were written either by the secretary, the assistant
secretary or the general manager. Mr. Leetch did not know
of any letters of personal or individual matters in that book
prior to March 1, 1894, or that did not relate to the affairs of

OCTOBER TERAIf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the gas company, except those of the same nature as those
letters above referred to.

The testimony also showed that Mr. Leetch, at the time he
was made manager, was appointed generally to take care of
the works and to do the best he could for the company; that
he was a gas engineer, and took care of the works and took
the place of what used to be the engineer, and after his appointment they had two engineers, one at each end, who were
subordinate to Mr.Leetch.
As bearing upon the duties of Mr. Leetch, the record also
contains evidence in the shape of a letter signed by the
president by the authority of the board of directors of the gas
company, dated Washington, March 1, 1865, and addressed to
Mr. George A. McIlhenny, by. which the latter was appointed
superintendent of the gas works, and his duties were therein
stated to be to take charge of every portion of said works
pertaining to the manufacture, distribution and consumption
of gas, and all persons employed in those departments; contracts for purchasing coal and selling tar were to be made by
the president, but the superintendent was authorized to contract for other supplies to the works, the contracts to be submitted to the president for approval. The superintendefit was
to fix the price of coke, but all coke was to be purchased and
paid for at the office. The superintendent was to have stated
hours for being at the office in town and give attention to
all complaints of leaky mains, etc. His special attention was
directed to certain points regarding the standard for gas and
increasing its product per pound of coal; increasing the coke
sold; saving of refuse coke; reduction of men employed at
the works; number of thousand feet of gas produced, and all
other points which need correction; the letter closing with
the statement : "The welfare of the company demands economy in its management, and that the gas produced shall be
uniformly good." From that time until the year 1886 there
is no evidence regarding the duties of superintendent or manager of the company.
In September, 1886, at a meeting of the board of directors,
the president called the attention of the board to the necessity

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LAINSDEN.

543

Opinion of the Court.

of employing a competent man to fill the position of superintendent of the company, (said position being formerly designated engineer,) and Mr. Mcflhenny (the president) was
authorized to employ such person for the position. Pursuant
to that authority the president wrote to Mr. Lansden (the
plaintiff) stating: "Our board of directors has authorized me
to employ a superintendent, and I have concluded to offer you
the position at a salary of $5000 per annum, payable monthly,
the condition being that you will give satisfaction, presuming
that you are a first class gas works superintendent, otherwise
this agreement may be revoked at any time." The plaintiff
was at this time it gas engineer, who is, as plaintiff testified, a
man who constructs and manufactures gas works and manufactures gas. His duties as superintendent would not enable
him precisely to know the cost of the manufacture and distribution of gas.
Mr. McLean, president of the company, testified on this
trial in regard to the position of Mr. Leetch; that he first
had a recognized position with the company after Mr. Lansden (plaintiff) had left the service of the company; that he
thought Leetch was on the pay roll of the company at that
time; he was just generally employed there and familiarized
himself with the company, but had, no positive employment
until after Mr. Lansden, the plaintiff, left; that Mr. Leetch
was not put in exactly the position Mr. Lansden had occupied,
but that in fact he was appointed generally "to take care of
the works and to do the best he could do for the company;
that he was a gas engineer and took care of the works."
This is all the evidence contained in the record bearing upon
the. duties of Mr. Leetch as general manager of the company
and of'his right to act for it in the above matter.
The question arises whether upon these facts and the legitimate inferences which may flow from them, the corporation
defendant can be held liable for the publication of the libellous
article in Th6 Progressive Age.
That a corporation may be held responsible in an action for
the publication of a libel is no longer open for discussion in
this court. Piladelphia,Wilmrington & .BaltimoreRailroad

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Quigley, 21 How. 202, 210. In that case the company was
held liable in damages to the plaintiff, Quigley, for the publication of a libel regarding the plaintiff's skill and capacity as a
mechanic. Quigley brought his action against the company
because the company published a letter addressed to it in the
course of an investigation by its board of directors in regard
to the conduct of some of its subordinates. The letter contained libellous matter in regard to the plaintiff, and with
much other testimony was printed and published by the board
of directors, and the court decided that the corporation could
'be held liable for the publication. In that case Mr. Justice
Campbell, in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "That
for acts done by the agents of a corporation, either in contractu
or in delicto, in the course of its business and of their employment, the corporation is responsible as an individual is responsible under similar circumstances." The doctrine of this
case has been approved and reaffirmed in many cases in this
court since that time.
The result of the authorities is, as we think, that in order
to hold a corporation liable for the torts of any of its agents,
the act in question must be performed in the course and within
the scope of the agent's employment in the business of the
principal. The corporation can be held responsible for acts
which are not strictly within the corporate powers, but which
were assumed to be performed for the corporation and by the
corporate agents who were competent to employ the corporate powers actually exercised. There need be no written authority under seal nor vote of the corporation coiistituting
the agency or authorizing the act. But in the absence of
evidence of this nature there must be evidence of some facts
from which the authority of the agent to act upon or in relation to the subject-matter involved may be fairly and legitimately inferred by the court or jury. Salt Zake City v.
-H~ollister,118 U. S. 256, 260; Denver & Rio Grande Railway v. Harris,122 U. S. 597, '609; Lake Shore & Michigan
Southern Railway v. Prentice,147 U. S. 101, 109, and cases
cited at p. 110.
In this case no specific authority was pretended to have

WASHI NGTON GAS. LIGHT -CO. v. LANSDEN.

5,5

Opinion of the Court.

been given the general manager, Leetch, to write the letters
which he sent to Brown, or to authorize the publication of
anything whatever in the periodical named. We are then
limited to an inquiry whether the evidence is sufficient upon.
which a jury might be permitted to base an inference that'
Leetch had the necessary authority to act for the company in
this business. If different inferences might fairly be drawn
from the evidence by reasonable men, then the jury should be
permitted to choose for themselves. But if only one inference
could be drawn from the evidence, and that is a want of authority, then the question is a legal one for the court to decide.
We do not mean that in order to render the company liable
there must be some evidence of authority, express or implied,
given to the manager to publish or to authorize the publishing
of a libel, but there must be some evidence from which an
authority might be implied on the part of the manager to
represent the company as within the general scope of his
employment, in regard to the subject-matter of the correspondence between Brown and himself. There is no evidence
of an express authority, nor of -any subsequent ratification of
Leetch's conduct by the company. Can any authority be
inferred from the evidence as to the nature of the duties and
powers of the manager? Were the acts of Leetch within the
general scope of his employment as manager? Upon a careful perusal of the whole evidence we find nothing upon which
such an inference can be based; nothing to show that any
correspondence whatever, upon the subject in hand, was withini
the scope of the manager's employment. Commencing with
the time when a superintendent was employed in March, 1865,
down to the employment of Leetch, no such. power could be
inferred from the evidence regarding the duties of a superintendent or manager. In March, 1865, the duties of such an officer were plainly stated. They were: "To take charge of every
portion of said works pertaining to the manufacture, distribution
and consumption of gas and all persons employed in those departments." Further details of his duties were mentioned in
the writing making the appointment, but they all related to
the carrying on of the business of the company. From all
VOL. cixxn-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.,
Opinion of the Court.

that appears in the record the duties of superintendent of the
gas works remained as stated in the communication as above
mentioned, with possibly a change in the name from superintendent to engineer, until 1886, when, under authority of the
board of directors, Mr. Lansden, the plaintiff, was employed
as superintendent upon the presumption, as stated, that he
was a first class gas works superintendent. There is nothing
from which we could infer that the-character or scope of the
duties of superintendent was enlarged or changed at the time
the plaintiff accepted the position from what those duties
were stated to be in the letter appointing a superintendent
in 1865.
From the evidence in the case, no presumption could be
indulged that the duties of the general manager of the corporation in question included in their general scope or character the right to represent the corporation in any business
such as is referred to in the letters of Brown or in the letters
of Leetch ifi answer thereto. The letters of Mr. Brown had
nothing whatever to do with the transaction of the business
of the corporation or with anything relating thereto which
the superintendent was authorized to perform. It was an
inquiry relative to a past transaction -regarding the testimony
supposed to have been given.before a committee of Congress,
having, among other things, the subject of the price of gas
in the city of Washington before it for consideration. From
the evidence in this case, it is plain that it was no part of the
duty of the general manager even to appear before that committee unless summoned- so to do by the committeb, or specilly directed by the company to so appear. In no view of
the bvidence can we see the least basis for an inference that
the manager had authority to represent the company in any
matter connected with third parties and relating to the character of the evidence given by the plaintiff before the committee of Congress.
The manager did not himself regard the correspondenpe
as one of an official nature, and he swears that he answered
the letters as a mere personal matter, altogether exclusive
of any duty that he owed to the gas company; that the gas

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LAITSDEN.

547

Opinion of the Court.

company had no interest in it, and he merely wrote the letters
as an act of courtesy stating the facts, and that none of the
officers of the company were informed as to the contents of
the letters that he wrote, and they were ignorant regarding
them.
The plaintiff, of course, would not be bound by the evidence
of Mr. Leetch as to how he regarded the letters or in what
capacity he thought that he was answering them, if there
were other evidence in the case from which a contrary inference could properly be drawn - evidence from which it could
be inferred that the manager was acting within the scope of
his employment as manager; in such case it would be proper
to refer the. question of fact to the jury to ascertain whether
the letters were written within the scope of his employment,
notwithstanding his assertion that he wrote them in his personal capacity. But there is no such evidence.
The fact that the manager copied his letters to Brown into
the official copy book. kept in the office of the secretary is not
material upon this question. It was the act of Mr. Leetch,
unknown to the officers of the company, so far as the record
shows, and-the company cannot be held liable for the original
act of Leetch by such evidence. It does not tend to show
that his action was within the scope of his employment as
manager.
If we set aside for a moment the testimony in regard to
the duties to be performed by the superintendent, as stated
in the communication of March, 1865, and look simply at the
other facts in the case, we are still without any evidence from
which it might be inferred that the act on the part of the
manager was within the scope of his employment. The burden is upon the plaintiff to show this fact.
From the use of the term "general manager" we should
not be authorized to infer any such authority, nor would it
be permissible to allow the jury to -make a mere guess that
A general man'ager of a business corporation,
it existed.
such as this gas company is, would not be presumed to have
this power. The term, in our judgment, when used in connection with such a corporation cannot, in the absence of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence on the subject, be presumed to mean anything more
than that the person filling the position has general charge
of those .business matters for the carrying on of which the
company was incorporated. These might include the buying
of material, the employment of laborers, the supervision of
.their labor, the manufacture of gas, its distribution and the
general ways and means of accomplishing the object of the
corporation - all these in subordination to the board of directors and such superior officers as the board should provide.
We are of opinion that the court erred in submitting to the
jury the question whether Leetch, in respect to the subject
of the letters written by him to Brown, had authority to
bind the company. The court should have directed a verdict
for the corporation on the ground that there was an entire
lack of evidence upon which to base a verdict against it.
The next question arises in regard to the defendant Bailey.
The only evidence in regard to this defendant is that be
was secretary of the company at the time in question; that
after Mr. Lansden, the plaintiff, had made the memorandum
in preparation for his being called as a witness before the
Congressional committee in 1893, and in which memorandum
he had stated the cost of gas, (although, as he says, he took
that cost from the president, and did not pretend to state it
as of his own knowledge,) he gave the memorandum to Mr.
McLean, the president of the defendant company, who gave
it to Mr. Bailey, the secretary, who had kept it in his possession from that time; that after Mr. Leetch received Mr.
Brown's first letter relating to the plaintiffs testimony before
the Congressional committee of 1894, Mr. Leetch showed him
(Bailey) the letter, and that Mr. Bailey then read it, and
stated: "I have a paper in Mr. Lansden's own handwriting,
where he stated that the price of gas was so and so and the
price of distribution was so and so ;" and he then gave Leetch
the paper; that he then knew that the -items therein, so far
as they regarded the cost of distribution, did not rest on plaintiff's personal knowledge, but that they came from the books;
that he did not kn6w what Leetch wanted with the paper';
that he thought nothing about it; that Leetch had asked him

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LANSDEN.

549

Opinion of the Court

"Where is the paper ?" and he then got it, and Leetch asked
him to let him take it; and that Leetch did take it and went
off to his room, and that Bailey never saw it again or heard
of it until after the letter was written; that Bailey did not
give Leetch any data to reply to the letter and he thought
nothing about .writing the letter, and that he simply said, as
a matter of fact, that he (Lansden) had said that gas could be
made and sold at a profit at a dollar. He never knew that
the first letter of Brown had been answered until he saw it
in The Progressive Age.
This is all the evidence connecting Mr. Bailey in any way
with the publication of the libel, and we think it wholly insufficient for that purpose. We think there is nothing in this evidence from which the inference can reasonably and fairly be
drawn that there was any intention on the part of Mr. Bailey
to furnish Mr. Leetch with the figures in the memorandum so
that he might answer the letter from Mr. Brown, and have
the figures or any other matter published in his paper.
A finding by the jury, that Mr. Bailey furnished the information contained in this memorandum to Mr. Leetch for the
purpose of having him communicate it to*Mr. Brown, and for
the purpose of having Mr. Brown publish the same, would not
be supported by any evidence in this case. Such a finding
would be a pure guess, unsupported by any evidence, and the
jury should not be offered the opportunity to make it. The
judgment should, therefore, be reversed as against Mr. Bailey.
The third question relates to the judgment against Leetch.
We are of opinion that the judgment ought also to be reversed and a new trial awarded as against him. We do not
think it would constitute a defence in his case that there were
other matters contained in the article published by Mr. Brown,
not pertaining to and which were no part of the subject-matter
upon which Mr. Leetch wrote his letters. For anything appearing in that publication which was outside and beyond the
scope of the subject-matter of the letters of Mr. Leetch, he
would not be responsible, because he could not be charged with
authorizing the publication of such matter in any form, but if
upon all the evidence on another trial the jury should be satis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

fled he furnished the publisher, Mr. Brown, with information
of a libellous character regarding the plaintiff, for the purpose
and with the intention of having the same published by Mr.
Brown, we think that the defendant might be held liable for
such publication on the ground that it was published by his aid
and procurement and substantially by his agent. Of course,
the evidence would have to be sufficient to justify a jury in
finding the fact of such intention, and that the information
was so furnished to Mr. Brown.
There are, however, two grounds upon which we think this
judgment should be reversed, and no judgment entered upon
the verdict even as against .Mr. Leetch, one of which rests
upon an exception to evidence, and the other is based upon
the substantial injustice which we think might be the result if
we were to permit judgment to be entered upon the verdict as
against him alone.
When the plaintiff was on the stand, upon direct examination, he testified that the total capital .stock of the company
defendant was $2,000,000. B:e was then asked as to the dividends that had been paid upon the stock within his knowledge.
This was objected to by counsel for defendants, who said it
was perfectly well known that the gas company was able to
pay the amount claimed in this libel case, and what dividends
they pay is a matter private to the company.
Counsel for plaintiff said he was seeking to show only its
earning capacity. To which counsel for defendants said they
would admit that the company was able to pay this amount
claimed.

"THE, COURT: Still they have the right" to show

the volume of the property of the company, and any evidence tending'to show the volume of the property would be
competent." To which ruling of the court counsel for the
defendants excepted.
The witness then testified that the company had paid the
last two regular dividends of ten per cent upon its capital
stock.
The court then said to counsel: "That the admission of
the fact that the company was able to respond in damages
amounted to nothing; that the object of the evidence was

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LANSDEN.

551

Opinion of the Court.

to furnish the jury-a basis upon which they might calculate
exemplary damages if they were entitled to exemplary damages, as was claimed. If the jury were going to give exemplary damages they might give much larger damages against
a very wealthy person than they.would against a person of
ordinary circumstances." Counsel for the defendants said that
their claim was only $50,000. To which the court responded:
"If you admit'that if they are entitled to a verdict at all they
are entitled to $50,000, that does away with the necessity of
'the evidence; otherwise I think it would be admissible." And
under the objection and exception of the defendants' counsel
the witness then testified that he knew what dividends had
been paid by the gas company since 1890, but did not know
what had been earned; that every year they had paid 10 per
cent; that in 1893, they had paid 15 per cent; that was an
extra dividend; that in 1895 they had paid $100,000 -an
extra dividend; that from 1890 down to the present time
they had paid the regular 10 per cent dividend every year,
and that in 1890 they had issued $600,000 of interest-bearing
certificates to the stockholders, which would make it 40 per
cent for that .year, and in 1893 there was a special dividend
paid of $3 per share in addition to the 10 per cent; that in
1894 he did not know of anything being paid but the regular
dividend; that in 1895 they paid $4 a share, and that it takes
$200,000 to make the regular dividend, and they paid $400,000
extra in, $600,000 altogether. The court did not directly in.struct the jury that the evidence was only admissible for the
purpose stated by him in his reply to the objection made by
counsel for the defence. In' his final charge to the jury and
upon the request of the counsel for the defendants, the court
instructed the jury that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover punitive damages against the defendant company or
against either of the other defendants, but only such damages
as the evidence proves that he has sustained on account of
the action of the defendants, if any.
The plaintiff in bringing his action saw fit to join the gas
company and several of its officers as individual defendants.
He could, had he so chosen, have brought his action against

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
-Opinion of the Court.

the company alone. All the defendants joined in a plea of
not guilty, and the jury could not find a verdict of guilty
against all, and apportion the damages among the several
defendants by giving a certain amount as against the company and a certain other amount as against the individual
defendants. Those of the wrongdoers who are sued together
and found guilty in an action of tort are liable for the whole
injury to plaintiff, without examining the question of the different degrees of culpability. And if but one is sued, he is
liable for all the damages inflicted by the most culpable.
Cooley on Torts, 133, 135, 136; Carrier v. Swan, 63 Maine,
323; Berry v. Fletcher, 1 Dill. 67; Pardridge v. Brady, 7
Ill. App. 639; .feCarthy v. De Armit, 99 Penn. St. 63, 72.
. The rule is different in South Oarolina, where the jhry
can
apportion the damages among the different defendants found
guilty. It is acknowledged to be a departure from the rule
at common law. White v. JYoNeily and others, 1 Bay, 10, 11.
As between themselves, there is no contribution among several tort feasors. .Merryweather v. Nixan, 8 T. R. 186; fTarebrother v. Ansley, 1 Camp. 343; Wilson v. Kilner, 2 Camp.
452; Cooley on Torts, pp. 148, 149. A verdict might therefore be rendered against all defendants and collected out of
one, and he would have no right of contribution. And the
verdict, enhanced by the evidence of the wealth of one defendant, might be collected from the defendant the least able
to respond and the least'culpable. of all, who would thus be
mulcted ii punitive damages, the amount of which might
.have been measured by the evidence of the wealth of another
defendant.
In 'this case the'.jury was bound to give one entire sum
against all the defendants found guilty, and that sum would
be included in the judgment against each of them. The object of the evidence in relation to the capital stock of the corporation and the dividends declared by it was, as stated by
the court to counsel, for the purpose of furnishing the jury the
basis upon which they might calculate exemplary damages,
yet it is not plainly limited to that purpose by any direction
given to the jury by the court. If the evidence would be ad-

WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LANSDEIN.

553

Opinion of the Court.

missible for the purpose stated by the court to counsel, in a
case against the corporation alone, can it be that it would be
admissible also in a case like this, where individual defendants
are joined by the voluntary act of the plaintiff? We are of
opinion that the evidence in regard to them would be inadmissible. It would form no basis for any verdict against the
individual defendants. While a defendant who is least to
blame is still liable for all the damages suffered by 1 laintiff, he
is not liable to respond in punitive damages, the amount of
which may be based upon particular evidence of the wealth
of some other defendant.
Punitive damages are damages beyond and above the
amount which a plaintiff has really suffered, and they are
awarded upon the theory that they are a punishment to the
defendant, and not a mere matter of compensation for injuries
sustained by plaintiff. While all defendants joined are liable
for compensatory damages, there is no justice in allowing the
recovery of punitive damages in an action against several defendants, based upon evidence of the wealth. and ability to
pay such damages on the part of one of the defendants only.
As the verdict must be for one sum against all defendants who
are guilty, it seems to be plain that when a plaintiff voluntarily joins several parties as defendants, he must be held to
thereby waive any right to recover punitive damages against
all, founded upon evidence of the ability of one of the several
defendants to pay them. This rule does not prevent the recovery of punitive damages in all cases where several defendants are joined. What the true rule is in such case is not perhaps certain. 7 Ill. App. 639; 99 Penn. St. 63. But we have
no doubt it prevents evidence regarding the wealth of one of
the defendants as a foundation for computing or determining
the amount of such damages against all.
In many cases against several defendants it frequently happens that evidence is competent and is admitted as against one
of the defendants only, and the court, on its own motion or on
the request of the other defendants, would charge the jury that
such evidence could not be taken into consideration as against
the defendants to whom it did not apply. But here such a

OCTOBER TERI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

power cannot be exercised. The court cannot say to the jury
that the evidence of the wealth of the corporation is only received in regard to it and as furnishing a basis for a computation of exemplary damages against it. If received at all it
must be received against all the defendants, as but one verdict can be given against all who are found guilty, when in
truth in regard to all of them but the corporation it is evidence which is absolutely incompetent. Yet if the evidence
is received on the assumption that it is material in relation to
the corporation, the other defendants are affected by it the
same as the corporation, and a verdict may very probably be
enlarged against them because of the evidence as to the ability
of the corporation -defendant to pay. The jury is thus permitted to take into consideration the wealth of one defendant
upon the question of the amount of the verdict against all of
them.
Objection to the"evidence was taken by counsel, and' we
think under the circumstances was well taken, and the exception is good in behalf of the individual defendants who were
necessarily affected by its introduction.
But it is said that this error, if any, was cured by the ruling
of the court in response to the request of defendants' counsel
that punitive damages should not be granted. We are not
certain as to that. As we have said, the court gave no instruction to the jury that it could only consider the evidence in
connection with the question of punitive damages. The remark of the court as to the object of the evidence was made
to counsel, and the court did not in any instructions given
-plainly limit the jury to its consideration for that purpose
alone. The evidence was never withdrawn by the court, nor
was the jury directed to take no motice of it. If the court
admitted the evidence for -ne purpose only, and yet did not
afterwards in terms withdraw it from the consideration of the
jury, it was of such a nature that it still might affect the jury,
,even though the basis for its admission originally had disappeared. It is true the defendants did not in so many words
ask the court to withdraw the evidence from the jury. It
was, however, duly objected to when received, and it was

WASHI1NGTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. LANSDEN.

555

Opinion of the Court.

error to receive it.. Under such circumstances, in order to
cure the error, the court, when deciding that punitive damages
could not be recovered, should have plainly and in distinct
language withdrawn this particular evidence from the jury.
We cannot be certain that its effect was removed by this
action of the court. In a case of this character, where the
line between compensatory and punitive damages is quite
vague, and compensatory damages may be based upon the
injury to the. feelings and good name of a plaintiff, and where
the amount even of such compensatory damages rests so
largely in the discretion of. a jury, we think it is utterly impossible to say that by merely charging the jury that punitive
damages cannot be recovered, the effect of the incompetent
evidence as to the wealth of one of the defendants was thereby
removed or that the verdict of the jury can be held to have
been based solely upon the competent evidence in the ease.
We are also of opinion that even upon the assumption that
no error was committed upon the trial as against the defendant Leetch, which in itself would call for a reversal, yet the
judgrnent should be wholly reversed and no judgment, entered
upon the verdict, as to him, because the original verdict was
against the three defendants, and it was given under such circuinstances that we might well fear the'amount was enlarged
by the evidence as to the wealth of the corporation, and it is
possible, if not probable, that if a verdict had been rendered
aghinst the individual defendant alone, it would have been for
a materially less amount. At any rate, the jury has never
been called upon to render a verdict against a sole defendant,
and while it may be said that whether against one or against
all the defendants, the plaintiff suffers the same damage and
should be entitled to a verdict for the same sum, still the question arises whether a jury, in passing upon the several liability
of the individual defendant, would give a verdict of the same
amount as it would if both the other defendants remained.
We cannot say it would, and as the jury has never rendered a
verdict against Mr. Leetch individually and solely, and as the
case is one where damages are so largely in the sole discretion
of the jury, we think it unjust and improper to permit this

OCTOBER TERAK, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

verdict to stand against Leetch alone while we set it aside as
against the other defendants.
Where the judgment is based upon a cause of action of such
a nature that it might work injustice to one party defendant,
if it were to remain intact as against him, while reversed for
error as to the other defendants, then we think the power exists in the court, founded upon such fact of possible injustice,
to reverse the judgment in toto and grant a new trial in regard to all the defendants.
The question is discussed with much fullness in Albright v.
MoTigke and others, 49 Fed. Rep. 817, and the same conclusion is arrived at.
The provisions contained in the judgment in Pennsylvania
Railroadv. Jones, 155 U. S. 333, at 354-, indicate the opinion
of this-court that it was right to reverse the entire judgment
in that case for error in regard to one of several defendants,
but the court held that as the error did not affect the others,
the plaintiff should have liberty to become non-suit as to
the one defendant and to then have judgment upon his verdict against the others. In that case there was a failure to
prove a cause of action against the one defendant while no
such failure existed as to the otheri, and there were no special
reasons for a total reversal, but on the contrary, justice seemed
to require that plaintiff should have the liberty of entering
judgment upon his verdict against the other companies.
In regard to the defendants, McLean, the president, and
Orme, the assistant secretary, the judge charged the jury that
there was no prayer granted, or asked by plaintiff's counsel
directed specially to informing the jury whether it might or
might not find against those defendants; that he did not understand that the plaintiff's counsel earnestly insisted upon a
verdict against them personally; and he c6uld only say that
the evidence tending to show that they were personally liable
was slight, and he submitted the case to the jury with that
expression, leaving it to their discretion to find for or against
them as they might think best. There was no finding by the
jury against those defendants, and no judgment was entered
against them and they hav.e not brought error. In reversing

ORIENT INSURANCE COMPANY v. DAGGS.

557

Syllabus.

the judgment we do not intend to reverse what may be considered a finding of the jury in their favor.
For the reasons given, we reverse the judgment of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, with directions
to that court to reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia and to grant a new trial to

the three defendants who areplaintiffs n the writ of error
sued outfi'om this court.

ORIENT INSURANOE COMPANY v. DAGGS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM1E COURT OF THE STATE OF AISSOURI.
No. 81. Argued December 8, 1898.-Decided January16, 1SG9.

The provision in section 5897 of c. 89, art. 4 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, that "in all suits upon policies of insurance against loss or damage by fire, hereafter issued or renewed, the defendant shall not be
permitted to deny that the property insured thereby was worth at the
time of the issuing of the policy the full amount insured theiein on said
property; and in case of total loss of the property insured, the measure
of damage shall be the amount, for which the same was insured, less
whatever depreciation in value below the amount for which the property is insured, the property may have sustained, between the time of
issuing the policy and the time of the loss, and the burden of proving
such depreciation shall be upon the defendant; and in case of partial
loss, the measure of damages shall be that portion of the value of the
whole property insured, ascertained in the manner hereinafter described,
which the part injured bears to the whole property insured;" and the provision in section 5898 "that no condition of any policy of insurance contrary to the provisions of this article shall be legal or valid," are not, when
applied to a foreign insurance corporation ihsuring property within the
State in conflict with the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States, forbidding a State to make or
enforce a law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, or to deprive any person of life, liberky or
property without due process of law; or to deny to any person within
its jurisdiction, the equal protection of the laws.
A corporation is not a citizen within the meaning of that Amendment, and
hence has not the privileges and immunities secured to citizens against
state legislation.

