NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

171

Statement of the Case.

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF NEW

MEXICO.
No. 1fO. Argued October 25, 26, 189. -Decided

December 5,1898.

The provision in Sec. 2 of the act of July 27, 1866, c.278, 14 Stat. 292, 294,
which exempts from taxation within the Territories of the United States,
the right of way granted by. the act to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad
Company, operates to exempt from such taxation the -land itself to the
extent to which it is made by the act subject to such right of way and
all structures erected thereon.
In so deciding the court does not question the rule of construction declared
In Vicksburg, Shreveport & Pacfic Railroad v. Thomas, 116 U. S. 665, and
followed in Yazoo &c.Railroadv. Thomas, 132 U. S.174; Wilmington &
Vdeldon Railroad v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S. 279; Keokuk & Western Railroad
v. Missouri, 152 U. B. 301; Norfolk & Western Railroad v. Pendleton, 156
U. S. 667; and Covington &c. Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 169 U. S. 578,
but rests the present decision simply on the terms of the statute.

THIS case was begun by the filing in the district court for
Bernalillo County, in the Territory of New Mexico, by the
District Attorney for the Territory, of an intervening petition on behalf of the Territory praying for an order against
the receiver of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,
requiring him to pay the amount of taxes' claimed to be due
upon the improvements on the right of way of said railroad
company in the county of 'Bernalillo, and upon station houses
and other improvements at seven different stations in said
county. The taxes claimed were for the years 1893, 1894
and 1895.
The case was submitted upon the following agreed statement of facts:
"For the purposes of the hearing to be had upon the intervening petition of the Territory of New Mexico, in the aboveentitled cause, and answers thereto of C.W. Smith, the receiver
of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, and the United
States Trust Company, it is hereby stipulated and agreed,, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the- Case.

and between said above-named parties, that the following
facts shall be accepted and received by the judge7 or court in
determining the questions involved as the facts in the' case.
"That on and prior to January 1, 1892, the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company, under the provisions of its charter,
definitely located its line of road and right of way through
Bernalillo County, which said right of way so located involved
all necessary grounds for station buildings, work shops, depots,
machine shops, switches, side tracks, turn tables and water
stations. That upon said right of way so located through the
city of .Albuquerque, in said county, was definitely located
necessary ground for station buildings, work shops, depots,
machine sh ops, side tracks, turn tables and water stations; and
there was also located upon said right of way at the Atlantic
and Pacific Junction, at Chaves or Mitchell, at Coolidge, at
*Wingate, at. Gallup and at Mianuelito, necessary ground for
station buildings, work shops, depots, machine slops, switches,
side tracks, turn tables and water stations.
"That thereafterwards and prior to.1893 there was built and
constructed upon said right of way by the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company from a point .of junction with the Atchison,
Topeka and'Santa F6 Railroad Conipany at Isleta, fifteen miles
south of Albuquerque, a railroad along said right of way, from
said junction point to the Colorado River, in the Territory of
Arizona; that the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company has,
under an agreement with the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Railroad Company, occupied and used the tracks of the last
named companiy between the junction of the two railroads at
Isleta and .the'city of Albuquerque as and for the railroad of
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company to the extent that
its business required the use and operation of such railroad for
itself.; or, in other' words, under contract between the two
companies the railroad of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa
F6 Railroad Company through the city of Albuquerque to
the junction at Isleta, a distance of about fifteen miles; is
-jointly used by 'the two railroad companies; said railroad
running through the reservations for machine shops, etc.,
aforesaid, of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company at

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

173

Statement of the Case.

Albuquerque; that.the right of way so located by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company and upon which it built
its railroad, as aforesaid, runs through Bernalillo County, and
is situated in Bernalillo County as follows:'
"Commencing at the A. & P. Junction referred to, it runs
thence in a westerly direction 4 miles 3780 feet to the division
line between Bernalillo County and Valencia County, and then
after crossing a portion of Valencia County at a point known
as Station 5247 it again runs through Bernalillo County 6S
miles and 44 feet to the west line of the county of Bernalillo,
being the west line of the Territory of New Mexico; which
said right of way, outside of the reservation for station
grounds, etc., was located, and is of the width of 200 feet,
being 100 feet on each side of the centre of the railroad
track located thereon.
"That in due time the former receivers of the property of
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company appointed by this
court returned to the assessor of Bernalillo County as property
belonging to said railroad company, taxable in said county,
certain property, which was and is described in said returns
as follows, to wit:
"List of personal property belonging to, claimed by, or in
the possession or under the control of the receivers of the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company (Western Division),
a corporation created by act of Congress, having its principal
place of business at Albuquerque, New Mexico.
"The line-of its road running through the counties of Bernalillo and Valencia in said Territory of New Mexico; thence
through the,counties of Apache, Navajo, Coconino, Yavapai and
M[ohave, in the Territory of Arizona, to the eastern boundary
line of the State of California; thence through the counties
of San Bernardino and Kern, in said State, to the western
end of said line, and its terminus at Mojave, in said county of
Kern, a total distance of 805.86 miles, the total mileage of
said line owned by said company in said Territory of New
Mexico being 166.6, of which 73.142 are in Bernalillo County,
and 93.458 miles are in Valencia County.
"And the receiVers of the .property of said company,

OCTOBER TERMN, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

make a full report of all of its personal property as follows, to
wit:
All the locomotives, passenger coaches, express and
mail cars, cabooses, box, flat and coal cars, push
cars, band cars and all other equipments owned,
possessed or used by said receivers or said company upon the entire line aforesaid .............. $452,960
Track tools, and all other personal property not having its situs or domicil in some other State or
Territory, including office and station furniture,
law library, books, stationery, supplies and material, etc.,at Albuquerque, Mitchell, Coolidge, Win78,000
gate, Gallup and Manuelito ....................
Personal property within the city limits of Albuquerque ..................................... 200,000
5,000
Personal property within the city limits of Gallup...
"That the above and foregoing was all the property returned for taxation in Bernalillo County by said receivers or
by the railroad company itself; and that the same was made
as the assignment of the property of said company subject
to taxation in said county for the year A.D. 1895; that the
county assessor of Bernalillo County in the year 1895, under
the direction of the board of county commissioners of said
county, placed on the assessment roll an assessment of property against the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company for
the year 1893. A true and correct copy of the assessment
roll showing such assessment so placed thereon is filed with
this as a part hereof, and as ' Exhibit 1,, which said exhibit
shows the taxes levied, together with the values and penalties.
That at the time- the said assessor, under the instructions of
said board, placed upon said assessment roll certain property
claimed to be taxable property belonging' to said railroad
company, which was omitted from taxation for the year 1894.
A true and correct copy of the assessment so made is shown
by'Exhibit 2,' herewith fled and made a part hereof.
"That the said assessor at the same time placed upon said

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

175

Statement of the Case.

assessment roll property claimed to have been omitted and
belonging to said company for the year 1895, a true and correct copy of which said assessment roll, with said last-named
assessment placed upon it, is shown by 4Exhibit 3,' hereto
attached and made a part hereof and filed herewith.
"That these exhibits show precisely the descriptions of
property entered by the assessor, the penalties added, and the
values and also the taxes levied thereon. 'Exhibit 3' also
shows the description of the property as returned by the
receivers.
"That all the property so placed upon the assessment roll
by the assessor, outside of that returned by the receivers, was
placed upon said assessment roll without the knowledge or
consent of the receivers, or of said railroad company; that
the entire property placed upon the assessment roll by said
assessor, outside of the property returned by the receivers,
constituted and constitutes an actual part and portion of the
roadbed and railroad track thereon situated on the right of
way of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company in Bernalillo County, in the Territory of New Mexico, and constitutes the railroad used and occupied by the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company under its charter and in accordance
with the provisions thereof; and the machine shops, station
buildings, water tanks, section houses and other buildings of
like character connected with and a part of the machinery
used in the operation of said railroad; that each and every
item of property described in the assessments so placed upon
the said assessment roll, outside of the property returned by
the receivers, is property that is actually and permanently
attached to the right of way and station grounds of the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, and constitutes an
actual part and portion of the superstructure placed upon said
right of way by said railroad company for its railroad and for
its machine shops, turn tables, side tracks, switches, water tanks,
station buildings and, other buildings of the same class and
character actually used and needed in the operation of said
railroad, and that no part of the same was, at the time of the
placing of said assessment upon said- assessment rolls by the

OCTOBER TERM, .1898.
Statement of the Case.

assessors, detached from the actual right of way and station
grounds of said railroad company; but, on the contrary, wITs
'firmly affixed thereto; that it was described as it was by the
assessor in placing thb same upon the assessment roll for the
purpose of escaping the exemption from taxation contained in
the second section of the act of Congress approved July 27,
1866, known as the charter of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, the assessor desiring to assess everything placed
on the right of way separate from the right of way, no matter
how permanently attached and affixed to the right of way.
"That during the year 1893 there were no receivers in possession of said property, and that said railroad was being
operated by the railroad company itself, and, if any property
was omitted to be returned for taxation which ought to have
been returned to the assessor of Bernaliflo County, it was the
fault and neglect of the railroad company itself, and not the
fault and neglect of the receivers afterwards appointed.
"That at Albuquerque, upon the reservations and station
grounds, there were situated the largest machine shops of the
said railroad company, the general office building and such
buildings as pertain to the headquarters of a railroad company; said buildings and reservation constitute the headquarters of the Western Division of the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company, and, since the appointment of receivers,
of the receivers operating the same.
"That the assessor, in placing each of thiese three assessments upon the assessment rollsas stated, added to the actual
value of the property one fourth of such value, as a penalty
for the failure on the part of the receiver to return such property for taxation.
"That in 1893 the railroad company, and in 1894 and 1895
the receivers, omitted all property that was firmly and fixedly
attached to the right of way of said railroad company and to
station grounds, under the honest belief that the same cOnstituted" a part of the right of way and was exempt from
taxation."
Subsequently, the case came on to be heard, upon the intervening petition of the Territory and the answer thereto

INEW MEXICO

v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

177

Statement of the Case.

of the United States Trust Company and of the receiver,
C. W. Smith, and the agreed statement of facts. Upon the
hearing the judge of the district court ordered the receiver to
pay to the treasurer of the county of Bernalillo the sum of
forty-three thousand two hundred and fifty-four dollar and
seventy cents ($13,254.70), the amount ascertained by a special master to be the aggregate of the taxes levied upon the
additional assessments and penalties. An appeal was taken
from this order by the United States Trust Company, and
also by the receiver, C. W. Smith, who had obtained from
the court permission to take such an appeal. The order appealed from was reversed upon hearing before the Supreme
Court of the Territory, the court determining that the additional assessments placed upon the rolls were illegal and void.
An application was made for a rehearing, which the court
denied, and an appeal was taken to this court.
The sections of the act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat.
292, with which we are concerned, are inserted in the
margin;1 also sections 2807, 2822, 2834 and 2835 of the
1 SEC. 1. . .
. And said corporation is hereby kuthorized and empowered to lay out, locate and construct, furnish, maintain and enjoy a
continuous railroad and telegraph line, with the appurtenances, namely,
beginning at or near the town of Springfield, in the State of Missouri,
thence to the western boundary line of said State, and thence by the most
eligible railroad route as shall be determined by said company to a point on
the Canadian River; thence to the town of Albuquerque, on the River Del
Norte, and thence, by way of the Agua Frio or other suitable pass, to the
head waters of the Colorado Chiquito, and thence along the thirty-fifth
parallel of latitude as near as may be found most suitable for a railway
route to the Colorado River, at such point as may be selected by said
company for crossing; thence by the most practicable and eligible route to
the Pacific. The said company shall have the right to construct a branch
from the point at which the road strikes the Canadian River eastwardly,
along the most suitable route as selected, to a point in the western boundary line of Arkansas at or near the town of Van Buren. And the said
company is hereby vested with all the powers, privileges and immunities necessary to carry into effect the purposes of this act as herein set
forth. * * *
SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That the right of way through the
public lands be, and the same is hereby, granted to the said Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company, its successors and assigns, for the construction
VOL. cLx=xI-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

of a railroad and telegraph as proposed; and the right, power and authority
Is hercijy given to said corporation to take from the public lands adjacent
to the line of said road material of earth, stone, timber and so forth, for
the construction thereof. Said way is granted to said railroad to the
extent of one hundred feet in width on each side of said railroad where it
may pass through the public domain, including all necessary grounds for
station buildings, work shops, depots, machine shops, switches, side tracks,
turn tables and water stations, and the right of way shall be exempt from
taxation within the Territories of the United States. * * *
ISEc. 3. And be it further enacted, That there be, and hereby is, granted
to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, its successors and assigns,
for the purpose of aiding in the construction of said railroad and telegraph
line to the Pacific Coast, and to secure the safe and speedy transportation
of the mails, troops, munitions of war and public stores, over the route of
said line of railway and its branches, every alternate section of public land,
not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate
sections per mile, on each side of said railroad line, as said company may
adopt through the'Territories of the United States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes
through any State, and whenever, on the line thereof, the United States
have full title, not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and
free from preEmption or other claims or rights, at the time the line of said
road is designated by a plat' thereof, filed in the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Officei; and whenever, prior to said time, any of said
sections or parts of sections shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other
lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof, under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by
odd numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits of said alternate
sections and not including the reserved numbers. * * *
S-c. 5. And be itfurther"enacted,That said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
shall' be constructed in a substaiitial and workmanlike manner, with all the
necessary draws, culverts; bridges, viaducts, crossings, turnouts, stations
and watering places, and all other appurtenances, including furniture and
rolling stock, equal in all respects to railroads of the first class when prepared for business, with rails of the best quality, manufactured from
American iron. And a uniform gauge shall be established throughout the
entire length of the road. And there shall be constructed a telegraph line,
of the most substantial and approved description, to be operated along the
entire line. * * *
SEc. 7. And be it further enacted,That the said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company be, and is hereby, authorized and empowered to enter upon,
purchase, take and hold any lands or premises that may be necessary and
proper for the construction and working of said road not exceeding in
width one hundred feet on each side of the line of its railroad, unless a
greater width be required for the purpose of excavation or embankment;
and also any lands or premises that may be necessary and proper for turn-

NE W MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

179

Statement of the Case.
outs, standing places for cars, depots, station houses or any other structures required in the construction and working of said road. And the said
company shall have the right to cut and remove trees and other material
that might, by falling, encumber its roadbed, though standing or being
more than two hundred feet from the line of said road. And in case the
owner of such lands or premises and the said company cannot agree as to
the value of the premises taken, or to be taken, for the use of said road,
the value thereof shall be determined by the appraisal of three disinterested
commissioners who may be appointed upon application by either party to
any court of record in any of the territories in which the lands or premises
to be taken lie; and said commissioners in their assessment of damages
shalt appraise such premises at what would have been the value thereof if
the road had lot been built. And upon return into court of such appraisement, and upon. the payment into the tame of the estimated value of the
premises taken for the use and ben3flt of the owner thereof, said premises
shall be deemed to be taken by said company, which shall thereby acquire
full title to the same for the purposes aforesaid. * * *
SEc. 8. And be it further enacted, That each and every grant, right and
privilege herein are so made and given to and accepted by said Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company, upon and subject to the following conditions,
namely: That the said company shall commence the work on said road
within two years from the approval of this act by the president, and shall
complete not less than fifty miles per year after the second year, and shall
construct, equip, furnish and complete the main line of the whole road by
the fourth day of July, Anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventy-eight.
Sic. 9. And be itfurlher enacted, That the United States make the several conditional grants herein, and that the said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company accept the same, upon the further condition that if the said
company make any breach of the conditions hereof, and allow the same to
continue for upwards of one year, then, in such case, at any time hereafter,
the United States may do any and all acts and things which may be needful
and necessary to insure a speedy completion of the said road.
Smc. 10. And be it further enacted, That all people of the United States
shall have the right to subscribe to the stock of the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company until the whole capital named in this act of incorporation
Is taken up by complying with the terms of subscription.
Svc. 11. And be it furlher enacted, That said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad,
or any part thereof, shall be a post route and military road, subject to the
use of the United States for postal, military, naval and all other government service, and also subject to such regulations as Congress may impose
restricting the charges for such government transportation.
SEc. 20. And be it further enacted, That the better to accomplish the object
of this act, namely, to promote the public interest and welfare by the construction of said railroad and telegraph line, and keeping the same inworking order, and to secure to the government at all times, but particularly in
time of war, the use and benefits of the same for postal, military and other

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel for Appellant.

Compiled Laws of 1884 of New Mexico relating to taxation.,
2Xr. F. W. Olancy for appellant. .AXh. Felix
Mr. TAonwa N. Wilkeson were on his brief.-

Lester and

purposes, Congress may at any time, having due regard for the rights of
said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, add to, alter, amend or repeal
this act.
1 TrrLE 41. CHAPTER 1.
2807. The terms mentioned in this section are employed throughout this
chapter in the sense herein defined:
First. The term "real estate" includes all lands within the territory to
which title or right to title has been acquired; all mines, minerals and quarries, in and under the land, and all rights and privileges appertaining thereto
and improvements.
Second. The term "improvements" includes all buildings, structures,
fixtures and fences erected upon or fixed to land, whether title has been
acquired to said land or not.
Third. The term "personal property" includes everything which is subject of ownership, not included within the term "real estate."
Fourth. The term "credit" includes every claim and demand for money,
or other valuable thing, and every annuity or sums of money receivable at
stated periods; but pensions from the United States and salaries, or payments expected, for services to be rendered are not included in the above
term.
2822. The assessor is required, between the first day in March and the
first day in.May of each year, to ascertain the names of all taxable inhabitants and all property in his county subject to taxation. To this end he
shall visit each precinct in the county, and exact from each person a statement in writing, or list, showing separately:
First. All property belonging to, claimed by, or in the possession or under
the control or management of such person, or any firm of which such person is a member, or any corporation of which such person is president,
secretary, cashier or managing agent.
Second. The county in which such property is situated, or in which it is
liable to taxation.
Third. A description by legal subdivisions, or otherwise, sufficient to
identify it,-of all real estate of such person and a detailed statement of his
personal property, including average value of merchandise for the year
ending March lst; amount of capital employed in manufactures; number
of horses, mules, cattle, sheep, swine and other animals; of carriages and
vehicles of every description; jewellery, gold and silver plate; musical instruments; household furniture; moneys and credits; shares of stock of
any corporation or company; and all other property not herein enumerated,
with the value of the different classes of property in detail.

NEW MIEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

181

Opinion of the Court.

Xr. Victor .Morawetz and Mr. . I. Sterry for appellees.
Mr. E. D. Kenna and Mr. Robert Dunldp were on their
brief.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA, after statifig the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
. The right of way is granted to the extent
of two hundred
feet on each side of the railroad, including necessary grounds
for station buildings, workshops, etc. What, then, ,is meant
by the phrase "the right of way"? A mere right of passage,
says appellant. Per contra, appellee contends that the fee
was granted, or, if not granted, that such a tangible and corporeal property was granted, that all that was attached to it
became part of it and partook of its exemption from taxation.
To support its contention, appellant urges the technical
meaning of the phrase "right of way," and claims that the
primary presumption is that it was used in its technical sense.
Undoubtedly that is the presumption, but such presumption
must yield to an opposing context, and the intention of the
legislature otherwise indicated. Examining the statute, we
find that whatever is granted is exactly measured as a physical thing -not as an abstract right. It is to be two hundred
feet wide, and to be carefully broadened so as to include
grounds for the superstructures indispensable to the railroad.
The phrase "right of way," besides, does not necessarily
mean the right of passage merely. Obviously, it may mpean
one thing in a grant to a natural person for private purposes
2834. On or before the first Monday in March, annually, the assessor
shall make out an assessment book or roll, with appropriate h 9 adings, alphabetically arranged, in which must be listed all the property in the county
subject to taxation. Such book shall contain the names of the persons to
whom the property is assessed, with the several species of property and
the value as hereinbefore indicated, with the columns of numbers and values
as given by the person making the return, as fixed by the assessor, and as
decided by the county commissioners. At the end of such book or roll all
property assessed to "unknown owners" shall be entered.
2835. Each tract of land shall be valued and assessed separately except
when one or more adjoining tracts are returned by tlhe same person, in
wvhich case they may be valued and assessed together.

OCTOBER TER2',

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

and another thing in a grant to a railroad for public purposes
-as different as the purposes and uses and necessities respectively are.
In Heener v. Union Pacific Railway, 31 Fed. Rep. 126, 128,
Mr. Justice Brewer defined the words "right of way" as follows: "The term 'right of way' has a twofold significance.
It sometimes is used to mean the mere intangible right to
cross; a'right of crossing; a right of way. It is often used
to otherwise indicate that strip which the railroad company
appropriates for its use, and upon which it builds its roadbed."
Mr. Justice Blatchford said in Joy v. St. Zouis, 138 U. S. 1,
44: "Now the term ' right of way ' has a twofold signification.
It is sometimes used to describe a right belonging to a party,
a right of passage over any tract; and it isalso used to describe
that str' of land which railroad companies take upon which
to construct their roadbed." That is, the land itself-not a
right of passage over it. So this court in .Missouri,Kansas d
Texas Railway v. Roberts, 152 U. S. 114, passing on a grant
to one of the branches of the Union Pacific Railway Company
of a right of way two hundred feet wide, decided that it conveyed the .fee. The effect of this decision is attempted to be
avoided by saying that the distinction between an easement
and the fee was not raised. -The action was ejectment, and
was brought in Kansas, and under the law of that State title
could be tried in ejectment. Title was asserted by Roberts,
who was plaintiff in the state court, and this court evidently
considered it involved in the case. The language of Mr. Justice Field, who delivered the opinion of the court, would be
unaccountable else. The difference between an easement and
the fee would not have escaped his attention and that of the
whole court, with the inevitable result of committing it to the,
consequences which might depend upon such difference.
Washburn in his work on. Easements, on p. 10, says:
" Whether the thing granted be an easement in land or the
land itself may depend upon the nature and use of the thing
granted."
To sustain this view the learned author cites
JamaicaPondAqueduct Corporationv. Chandler,9 Allen, 159.
In that case the court said: "Whenever a grant is made of a

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

183

Opinion of the Court.

right or easement in lands which fall within the class sometimes described as ' non-continuous ' - that is, where the use
of the premises by the grantee for the purpose designated in
the deed will be only intermittent and occasional, and does
not embrace the entire beneficial occupation and improvement of the land -the reasonable interpretation is, that an
easement in the soil, and not the fee, is intended to be conveyed. Among the most prominent of this class of easements
is a way." An ordinary way, of course, the court meant, one
the use of which would be non-continuous- only intermittent
and occasional; but a way not of that character, whose use
would be continuous, not occasional, and which would embrace
the entire beneficial occupation and improvement of the land,
would
might require the fee for its enjoyment -certainly
the
use
"Unlike
right
of
passage.
require more than a mere
use
of
land
of a private way-that is, discontinuous -the
condemned by a railroad company is perpetual and continuew York, Susquehanna & Western Railroadv. Trimous."
met, 53 N. 1. L. 1, 3.
But if it may not be insisted that the fee was granted, surely
more than an ordinary easement was granted, one having the
attributes of the fee, perpetuity and exclusive use and possession ; also the remedies of the fee, and, like it, corporeal, not
incorporeal, property.
In Smith v. Hall, 7"2 N. W. Rep. 427, the Supreme Court
of Iowa says, speaking of the right of way of a railroad:
"The easement is not that spoken of in the old law books,
but is peculiar to the use of a railroad which is usually a permanent improvement, a perpetual highway of travel and
commerce, and will rarely be abandoned by non-user. The
exclusive use of the surface is acquired and damages are
assessed on the theory that the easements will be perpetual;
so that ordinarily the fee is of little or no value unless the
land is underlaid by a quarry or mine."
"The right acquired by the railroad company, though
technically an easement, yet requires for its enjoyment a use
of the land permanent in its nature and practically exclusive."
Ilazen v. Boston & .Maine Railroad,2 Gray, 574, 580.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

In Southern Pacific v. Burr,86 California, 279, the Supreme
Court of California sustained an action of ejectment for land
constituting a part of the right of way granted to the Central
Pacific Railroad by the act of July 1, 1862, by language
similar to the grant in the case at bar.
Distinguishing the case from Wood v. Truckee Turnpike
Co., 24: California, 474, in which it was held that "a road or
right of way is an incorporeal hereditament, and ejectment is
maintainable only for corporeal hereditaments," the court
said: "We think that case plainly distinguishable from this.
Here there was a special grant of a right of way two hundred
feet in width on each side of the road. This grant is a conclusive determination of the reasonable and necessary quantity
of land to be dedicated to the public use and it necessarily involves a right of possession in the grantee, and is inconsistent
with any adverse possession of any part of the land embraced
within the grant. It is true the strip of land now actually
occupied by the roadbed and telegraph line may be only a
small part of the four hundred feet granted, but this fact is of
no consequence. The company may at some time want to
use more land for side tracks, or other purposes, and it is
entitled to have the land clear and unobstructed whenever it
shall have occasion to do so." The court quoted and approved the views expressed in Winona v. Htf, 11 Minnesota, 119, that for a mere easement perhaps an action of
ejectment Would not lie; but wherever a right of entry exists
and the interest is tangible so that possession can be delivered,
an action of ejectment will lie. The same distinction was
made in NTew York, Susquehanna & Western Railroad v.
Trimmer, snra,and the court said that if the interest of the
railroad company was a naked right of way it would constitute no such right of possession of the land itself as would
sustain the action; for such a right would be an incorporeal
one upon which there could be no entry, nor could possession
of it be given under an habere facias Po88e88ionem. In this
case it was held that the interest taken by the railroad was
not an easement.
The interest granted by the statute to the Atlantic and

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

185

Opinion of the Court.

Pacific Railroad Company, therefore, is real estate of corporeal
quality, and the principles of such apply. One of these, and
an elemental one, is that whatever is erected upon it becomes
part of it. There are exceptions to the principle, but as we
are not concerned with them, we need not state them. Applications of the principle to railroads are illustrated by the
decisions of this court and by those of other courts. As to
rails put down against him from whom purchased, Galveston
Railroad v. Vowdrey, 11 Wall. 459; United States v. New
Orleans Railroad,12 Wall. 362; Thompson v. White Water
Valley Railroad,132 U. S. 68; even though the contract of
purchase provided that the property should remain that of the
vendor and he have a right to remove the same, Porter v.
PittsburgBessemer Steel Co., 122 U. S. 267, and cases cited;
in determining the relation of the rails to the right of way,
Joy v. St. Louis, 138 U. S. 1. In this case Mr. Justice
Blatchford said: "The track cannot be separated from the
right of way, the right of way being the principal thing and
the track merely an incident. A right of way is of no particular use to a railroad without a superstructure and rails; the
track is a necessary incident to the enjoyment of the right of
way." See also Palmer v. Forbes, 23 Illinois, 301; Hunt v.
Bay State Iron Co., 97 Mass. 279; New -Havenv. FairHaven
& Westville Railroad,38 Conn. 422.
The principle has tlso illustrations in cases of taxation.
People v. Casity, 46 N. Y. 46; Appeal Tax Court of Baltimore City v. The Baltimore Cemetery Co., 50 Maryland, 432;
O8borne v. JIumvhrey, 7 Conn. 335; Parker v. Redfield, 10
Conn. 490; Lehigh Coal & Navigation Co. v. _'orthampton
County, 8 W. & S. 334; Chicago, .Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway v. Crawford,48 Wisconsin, 666; Richmond v. Richwond & Danville Railroad, 21 Gratt. 604; Mayor &c. of
Baltimore v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,6 Gill. 288; Osborn.
v. N.
. & N.Y. H. Railroad, 40 Conn. 491; Richmond &
.Danville Railroad v. Alabama, 81 N. C. 504; lrorcester v.
Western Railroad Corporation,4 Met. 564.
It is urged, however, that the rule of construction declared
in Vicksburg, Shreveport & Pacific Railroad v. Dennis, 116

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.

.186

Syllabus.

U. S. 665, and the cases there cited and approved, and repeated in Gazoo &c. Railroad v. Thomas, 132 U. S. 174;
Wilmington & Weldon Railroad v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S. 279,
2941; Keokuk & Western Railroad v. .Afissouri, 151 U. S. 301,
306; Norfolk & Mestern Railroad v. Pendleton, 156 U. S.
667, and Covington &c. Twrnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S.
578, determines in favor of appellant's contention. That we
do not think so is probably sufficiently ihdicated, but we cite
the cases to preclude the thought that they have been overlooked, or that the rule announced by them is questioned.
Indeed, we regard it as salutary, and not impaired by our
decision which simply rests on the terms of the statute.
The decree is

Affirmed.

THE TERRITORY OF NEW MExIco V. THE UNITED STATES TRUST
ComPANY OF NEW YORK et al. No. 169. SoAE v. SAxE. No. 170.

Appeals from the Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico.
MR. JUSTICE MKENNA: On the authority of the foregoing opinion the decrees in these cases are

Affirmed.

THE ELFRIDA. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 60.

Argued November 10, 11, 1698. -Decided

December 12, 1898.

Where the stipulated compensation in a salvage contract is dependent upon
success it may be made for a larger compensation than a quantum meruit
and much more so when such success is to be achieved within a limited
time; and such contract, after execution, will not be set aside simply
because the compensation is excessive, unless shown to have been corruptly entered into, or made under fraudulent representations, a clear
mistake or suppression of important facts, in immediate danger to the
'The docket title of this case is " Charles Clarke and Robert P. Clarke,
Petitioners, v. The Steamship Elfrida, Pyman, Bell & Co., Claimants."

