OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

CHAPPELL CHEMICAL AND FERTILIZER COMPANY v. SULPHUR MINES COMPANY (No. 2).
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
Wo. 92.

Argued December .16, 1898.-Decided January 9, 1899.

The Court of Appeals of Maryland, in dismissing this case, said: "TIhe
defendant, long after the time fixed by the rule of court, demanded a
jury trial, and, without waiting for the action of the court upon his
motion, and indeed before there was any trial of the case upon its
merits and before any judgment, final or otherwise, was rendered, this
appeal was taken from what the order of appeal calls the order of court
of the 6th of February, 1896, denying the defendant the right of a juiy
trial; but no such order appears to have been passed. On the day mentioned in the order of appeal there was an order passed by the court below fixing the case for trial, but there was no action taken in pursuance
of such order until subsequent to this appeal. There is another appeal
pending here from the orders which were ultimately passed." Held, that
no Federal question was disposed of by this decision.

T.His cause was argued with No. 91, the preceding case. The
case is stated in the opinion.
.t1r. Thomas C. Chappell for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. James M11.
Ambler and 21[r. Randoph. Barton for defendant in error. -fr. SkiwitA Wilmer and .1r. .iandolph
Barton, Jr., were on their brief.
MR. JusriCE

cKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of the State
of Maryland to review a judgment made by it, and which is
hereafter set out.
The action was at law for the recovery of eight thousand
dollars for money payable, goods sold and work done, and
materials furnished by defendants in error (plaintiffs in the
court below) to plaintiff in error, (defendant in the court below,) and was brought in one of the city courts of Baltimore,

CHAPPELL O0EMICAL' CO. v. SULPHUR. MINES CO. 473
Opinion of the Court.

Maryland. To the declaration a plea was filed February 12,
1895, averring that the defendant was never indebted and
never promised as alleged. On January 13, 1896, under the
Maryland practice, upon the suggestion of the defendant
(plaintiff in error) that it could not have a fair trial, the case
was "t r ansmitted" to the Supreme Court of Baltimore, Maryland.
The record contains a number of motions and exceptions to
the rulings on the motions. One of these exceptions was that
the ruling of the court deprived plaintiff in error of a jury trial
under a law of Maryland and the rules of court made in accordance therewith, which law and rules plaintiff in error alleges
are repugnant to the Constitution of 'the United States. Another objection was to an order made on the 6th- of February,
1896, requiLing plaintiff in error to employ new counsel, the
cause under the practice of the.court having been peremptorily set for trial on the 20th of February, 1896, after having been twice postponed for the alleged sickness of counsel.
" An appeal was entered from this order and perfected. The
Court of Appeals dismissed it December 3, 1896, saying:
"The appeal in this case having been prematurely taken,
the motion to dismiss it must prevail.
"The defendant, long after the time fixed by the rule of
court, demanded a jury trial, and without waiting for the
action of the court upon his motion, and indeed before there
was any trial of the case upon its merits and before any judgment, final or otherwise, was rendered, this appeal was taken:
from what the order of appeal calls the order of court of the
6th of February, 1896, denying the defendant the right of a
jury trial; but no such order appears to have been passed.
On the day mentioned ,in the order of appeal there was an
order passed by the court below fixing the case for trial, but
there was no action taken in pursuance of such order until
subsequent to this appeal. There is another appeal pending
here from the orders which were ultimately .passed.
"Appeal dismissed."
No Federal question was disposed of by this decision.
Writ of en-or dismissed.

