UNITED STATES v. BUFFALO GAS FUEL CO.

339

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. BUFFALO NATURAL GAS

FUEL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 64.

Submitted December 2, 1898. -Decided

January 8, 1699.

Under the tariff act of October 1, 1890, natural gas is entitled to be admitted
free of duty..

THiE case is stated in the opinion.
Afr. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for the United States.
Xr. Hlerbert P. Bissel for the Buffalo Natural Gas Fuel
Company.
MR. JUSTICE PEC=Am delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant gas company, doing business at Buffalo, in
the State of New York, imports natural gas from the Dominion of Canada, for the purpose of supplying its customers
with that article. The gas is brought in pipes under the
Niagara River, and is used for consumption as fuel and for
illuminating purposes.
In 1893 the gas .imported by the company was assessed for
duty by the collector of the port of Buffalo as a non-enumerated unmanufactured article, at ten per cent, under section 4
of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567, at
p. 613.
The importers claimed that the gas was entitled to free
entry under section 2 of the above act, providing for a free
list, either under paragraph 496, (p. 604,) as crude bitumen,
or under paragraph 651, (p. 607,) as a crude mineral, not advanced in value or condition by refining or grinding, or by
any other process of manufacture, not specially provided for

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of 'the Court.

in the act. The importers made proper protest, and obtained
a review of the decision of the collector by the board of general appraisers. That board, on a second hearing, after testimony had been given as to the character of the gas, decided
that natural gas was a crude mineral, and the board on that
ground sustained the claim that it was exempt from duty
under paragraph 651 of the tariff act of 1890.
The Circuit Court affirmed that decision, and upon a review
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, 45 U. S.
App. 345, the decision was again affirmed. The latter court,
by Circuit Judge Lacombe, said: "We do not undertake in
this case to decide whether or not natural gas is a 'crude
bitumen.' If it be such, the provisions of paragraph 496
would control its classification, being more specific than those
of paragraph 651. Both paragraphs are in the free list, and
since natural gas comes fairly within the general provision for
crude minerals, and is therefore free, it is -unnecessary now to
inquire whether it is also within the more specific description
' crude bitumen,' which is also free. The board of general
appraisers properly reversed the collector's assessment of the
article for duty; it is not a 'raw or unmanufactured article
not enumerated."'
Circuit Judge Wallace, while concurring in the affirmance
of the decision of the Circuit Court, was of the opinion that
the importation in controversy ought to be classified under
paragraph 496 as crude bitumen, and exempt from duty on
that ground.
The decision having been duly entered, this court upon the
petition of the Government issued a writ of certiorari, and
the case has been brought here for review.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals was
right in its disposition of the case. The substance that is
taken from the bosom of the earth and which burns brightly
without any further labor put upon it, is popularly designated
as natural gas. This name is not contained in the tariff act,
but there are two paragraphs thereof which it is claimed do
properly and sufficiently characterize and embrace natural gas,
and they are in the free list, and are known as paragraphs 496'

UNITED

-STATES

v. BUFFALO GAS FUEL CO.

341

Opinion of the Court.

and 651. The language used in each, when taken i-n its'popular and commonly received sense, or according to the sense in
which it is used commercially, would cover and include the
substance generally spoken of and loosely described as natural
gas. The fact that it is not thus named in the act compelled the
collector to assess it as a raw or unmanufactured article not
enumerated, a description which does not fit nearly so well as
that which is contained in each of the paragraphs mentioned
above. We think the evidence shows that natural gas is included in the language of one or both of those paragraphs.
The rule is familiar that in the interpretation of laws relating to the revenues the words' are to be taken in their
commonly received and popular sense, or according to their
commercial designation, if that differs from the ordinary
understanding of the word. Two Hundred Cheete of Tea,
Smith, Claimant, 9 Wheat. 430.
Mr. Justice Story, in that case,'in delivering the opinion of
the court, said: "The object of the duty laws is to raise revenue, and for this purpose to class substances according to the
general usage and known denominations of trade. Whether
a particular article were designated by one name or another
in the country of its origin, or whether it were a simple or
mixed substance, was of no importance in the view of the
legislature. It did not suppose our merchants to be naturalists,
or geologists, or botanists. It applied its attention to the description of articles as they derived their appellations in our
own markets, in our domestic as well as our foreign traffic."'
See also Lutz v. Magone, 153 U. S. 105, and cases there cited.
Prior to 1890 natural gas had not been imported, although
its existence in this country.and in:foreign countries was well
known. After -the passage of the tariff act of 1890, this corporation commenced its importation from Canada as stated.
It appehred in the, evidence that an analysis of the gas thus
imported had been made by competent chemists, and it was
found to contain methane, or marsh gas, to the extent of 95.6
per cent, the balance being made up principally of hydrocarbons other than methane.
In the opinion of some of the witnesses the natural gas thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion. of the Court.

examined was a crude bitumen. It was stated "that bitumens
are mixtures of hydrocarbons of various kinds, mixed with
other materials in varying proportions; a crude bitumen as
found in nature is mixeat with other materials." It was also
testified that this natural gas contains 91.2 per cent ot natural
hydrocarbon, and the balarfce of 2.8 per cent is composed of
substances usually found with the hydrocarbons in crude bitumen; that the term "bitumen" does not refer to any substance of definite chemical composition, but is distinctively
a generic term applied to a large number of natural substances
which. consist largely or-chiefly of hydrocarbons. These substances may be gaseous, as natural gas or marsh gas; fluid, as
petroleum or naphtha; viscous, as the semifluid asphaltum;
elastic, as elaeterite, found in Utah and elsewhere; solid, as
some forms of asphaltum, bituminous or anthracite coal; that
the common compositions of crude bitumen are naturally clas-.
sified as above stated. The deposits of bitumen occur in various portions of the earth's crust; they differ naturally in
appearance, in consistency, in various physical and chemical
properties; but they are everywhere found to consist essentially of hydrocarbons, and they are correctly designated as
crude bitumens. That natural gas should be designated as a
crude bitumen was the opinion of some of the witnesses.
Evidence on the part of the Government was given by witnesses who iere connected with the Government Geological
Survey, andi their evidence would tend to show that the word
".minerals" in the mineralogical sense of the word almost invariably refers to, solids; that in the mineralogical definition
gases would not be included, but that there was a wider definition, which according to some authorities includes all the
constituents of the earth's crust, and that would include gases.
It was also stated that if a scientific man wants to be precise
he confines his use of the term "mineral" to a certain homogeneous substance, a chemical entity, having a defiite composition, just as the mineralogist does. But nevertheless minerals
are both solids and liquid, according to most definitions, and
that some authorities include gases among minerals and others
exclude them.

'SCOTT v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

One witness for the Government said if you exclude from
the mineral kingdom the gases included in the atmosphere,
you must set up some fourth class of substances; the division
being, generally, the vegetable kingdom, the animal kingdom
and the mineral kingdom; but po such fourth division is ordinarily designated, and the constituents of the atmosphere are
not vegetable and they are not animal, and ordinarily they are
included in the mineral kingdom.
We think the evidence in this case shows that, within the
language of paragraph 651 of the act of Congress, interpreting
that language in accordance with the rule above mentioned,
natural gas would fairly come under the head of a crude mineral, if there were no miore limited classification in the act;
but that the classification as crude bitumen is more limited,
and we are of opinion that, upon the evidence, natural gas
is properly thus described. If it be within the more specific
classification, it would be controlled thereby. It is not irnportant in this case to conclusively decide which classification
covers it, because both are on the free list. As the gas is described jn one or both of the paragraphs, it cannot come under
section 4 of the act, which provides for the levy, collection and
payment on the importation of all raw or unmanufactured
articles, not enumerated or provided for in the act, a duty of
ten per centum ad valorem.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of New York was right, and should be
Aflrmed.

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INEW YORK.
No. 80. Submitted December 5, 1898.-

Decided January 3, 1899.

The plaintiff in error, defendant below, a letter carrier, upon his trial
charged with purloining a letter containing money, offered himself as a
witness on his own behalf, denying that he had purloined the money.

