WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

that, being primafacie void, the owner of any property so
abutting on the improvement may obtain a decree of a court
of equity cancelling in tolo the assessment without denying
that his property is benefited by the improvement, or paying, or offering to pay, or expressing a willingness to pay, any
sum which may be a legitimate charge upon the property, for
the value of the benefit to it by such improvement.
In this case no tender was made of any sum, no offer to
pay the amount properly chargeable for benefits, there was
no allegation or testimony that the legislative judment as
to the area benefited, or the amount of the benefit was incorrect, or that other property was also benefited, and the opinion
goes to the extent of holding that the legislative deterinination is not only not conclusive but also is not even primafacie
sufficient, and that in all cases there must be a judicial inquiry
as to the area in fact benefited. We have often held the contrary, and I think should adhere to those oft-repeated rulings.
MR.SUSTIOE GRiAY and AR.JUSTICE SuIRAs also dissented.

WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
STRATHER v. UNITED STATES.
SMITHZ v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Nos. 431,432, 433. Argued November 2S, 169S. -Decided

January 8,1899.

Under the act of Congress of January 15, 1897, c. 29, ยง 1, by which " in all
cases where the accused is found guilty of the crime of murder," "the
jury may qualify their verdict by adding thereto ' without capital punishment,' and whenever the jury shall return a verdict qualified as aforesaid the person convicted shall be sentenced to imprisonment at hard
labor for life," the authority of the jury to decide that the accused shall
not be punished capitally is not limited to cases in which the court, or
the jury, is of opinion that there are palliating or mitigating circum-

304:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

stances; but it extends to every case in which, upon a view of the whole
evidence, the jury is of opinion that it would not be just or wise to
impose capital punishment.

THESE were three cases of indictments, returned and tried
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, for murders
committed since the passage of the act of Congress of January
15, 1897, c. 29, by the first section of which, "in all cases
where the accused is found guilty of the crime of murder or of
rape under sections fifty-three hundred and thirty-nine or
fifty-three hundred and forty-five, Revised Statutes, the jury
may qualify their verdict by adding thereto ' without capital
punishment;' and whenever the jury shall return a verdict
qualified as aforesaid the person convicted shall be sentenced
to imprisonment at hard labor for life." 29 Stat. 487.
Winston was indicted for the murder of his wife by shooting her with a pistol on December 13, 1,897. At the trial, the
government introduced testimony that while the defendant
and his wife were together in their bedroom about noon, with
the door fastened, a pistol shot was heard, followed by a loud
cry from her, and by two or three other pistol shots; that, on
breaking open the door, the wife was found lying on the bed,
killed by a pistol ball in the brain, and the defendant lying
near her, unconscious, badly wounded by a pistol ball in the
side of the head, and with a pistol near his hand; that earlier
in the day he had taken a pistol from a place where he had
left it; that he had previously threatened to kill her; and
that he afterwards cQnfessed that he had killed her, and said
that he had shot her because he was jealous of her and
another man, and wanted to shoot both her and her lover,
and thiat he afterwards shot himself. The defendant, being
called as a witness in his own behalf, testified that he and his
wife lived happily together, except that she was jealous of
him; that he did not shoot her, and never said that he had
shot her; that she shot him, and he immediately became
unconscious, and so remained for a week after.
The judge instructed the jury that if they believed from
the evidence that the woman took her own life, or that the

WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

defendant did not fire the fatal shot, their verdict must be
not guilty; but that if they were satisfied beyond a reasoniable doubt that she met her death from a pistol ball fired from
a pistol held in the hand of the defendant, and that her death
was caused by him, their verdict should be "guilty as indicted,"
"for there would be a presumption of malice arising from the
fact that her death was accomplished by the firing of a pistol
ball by the defendant from a ,pistol held in his hand; and as
there is no evidence that has been adduced which tends to
show any palliating or mitigating circumstances, thre could
be but one reasonable inference from the fact of the shooting,
and that would be that the act was committed with malice
aforethought."
The judge further instructed the jury as follows: "You have
been told, and it is the law since the act of Congress, passed
in January, 1897, that a jury is authorized, when they shall
have reached the conclusion that a defendant on trial is guilty
of murder, to qualify their verdict by adding thereto the words
'without capital punishment.'
"Counsel has endeavored to impress upon the jury the fact
not only that this right exists, but that it is the duty of the
jury to so qualify their verdict in every given case; that because they have the opportunity of extending mercy, therefore
the duty follows the right; that because it is your privilege
or opportunity to qualify the verdict by adding the words
'without capital punishment,' it is your duty so to do. But
the law was not so intended. It was intended to serve some
useful purpose. There are many shades of circumstances that
make up the crime of murder in different cases. In some
instances, the circumstances might be such as to bring the
crime within the definition of murder, and yet those circumstances might not indicate that degree of wantonness, wilfulness and heinousness that the circumstances in other cases
would indicate. I think that it was intended by Congress
that in cases where the crime is clearly murder within the
definition of the crime of murder, and yet there are circumstances which tend to mitigate the offence, palliating circumstances that tend to show that the crime is not heinous in its
VOL. cLxxn-20.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

character, the ju'ryr may add the words ' without capital punishment,' and the law then makes the penalty imprisonmedlt
for life.
"That qualification cannot be added unless it be the unanimous conclusion of the twelve men constituting the jury. I
think that it should not be added unless it be in cases that
commend themselves to the good judgment of the jury, cases
that have palliating circumstances which would seem to justify
and require it.
"The penalty-for the crime of murder has not been abrogated by Congress. The law-making power has seen fit to
allow that penalty to remain; and it is only in those cases
where the circumstances indicate to the jury thiat propriety,
and the necessity, perhaps, or the duty of making such qualification, that the jury should add the qualifying words ' without
capital punishment.' In all other cases the law speaks. The
jury need not qualify the penalty. It is not their duty to
qualify it. It is their right and privilege in a proper case to
qualify it."
"If the defendant did not commit this crime, he should be
returned by your verdict not guilty. If he did commit the
crime, then he is responsible for these conditions, not you.
Your simple duty is to declare whether he is guilty or not
guilty. If guilty, then your verdict should be either guilty as
indicted, or guilty i' ith the qualification."
Strather was indicted for the murder with a hatchet on
October 1ยง, 1897, of a woman with whom he lived as his wife,
but who was the wife of another man. At the trial, the government introduced evidence tending to prove these facts,
and that for several nights before the homicide she failed to
join the defendant, and he threatened to kill her. The testimony of the defendant and of other witnesses called by him
tended to prove the defendant's previous reputation as a peaceful and law-abiding citizen, and the deceased's previous reputation as a quarrelsome and violent woman; that she had on
previous occasions assaulted him, on one occasion throwing at
him a beer mug, and on another occasion cutting him with a

WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

penknife; that she had previously threatened his life, and he
knew of the threat; that immediately before the homicide,
there had been a quarrel between them; and that upon his
arrest, immediately after the homicide, there was'a bleeding
wound upon his face. The defendant, in his testimony,
admitted that he inflicted upon the woman the wounds which
caused her death; but denied that he had ever threatened her
life; and affirmed that he inflicted those wounds while under
fear of his life, and during the heat and excitement of the
quarrel, and while suffering pain from a blow by her on his
left jaw, where there was an ulcerated sore at the time he
received the blow.
At the close of the evidence, the defendant requested the
judge to give certain instructions to the jury, including this
one: "In case the jury find the prisoner guilty of murder,
they are instructed that they may qualify their verdict by the
words ' without capital punishment,' no matter what the evidence may be." The judge declined to give that instruction,
and, after defining murder and manslaughter, and the right
of self-defence, instructed the jury as follows:
"If you should reach the conclusion that your verdict should
be ' guilty as indicted,' it is your right, under a recent act of
Congress, passed in January, 1897, to add to this verdict
'without capital punishment.' The jury have this power in
any given case. The court cannot control your act at all.
The court can only advise you as to the law. The responsibility is entirely with you, and you can render such verdict as
you please. I mean that you have the power to do it. You
can render a verdict of not guilty in a case where the evidence
clearly shows guilt. Of course, such action on the part of the
jury would be a direct violation of their oaths. If the jury
believed a man was guilty, and simply out of pity or sympathy
or mercy rendered a verdict of not guilty, they would violate
their oaths.
"I have no doubt that this act of Congress was intended to
serve some useful purpose. The penalty of murder has not
been disturbed by this act of Congress; it is fixed by law;
the jury neither make nor unmake it. Doubtless the intention

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

of the legislature was this: that if, in a case in which the jury
reach the conclusion that the party on trial is guilty for murder, circumstances are shown by the evidence that are of a
palliating nature they may give the defendant the benefit of
those palliating circumstances, and say in their verdict ' without capital punishment.' If, however, the jury believe that
there are no palliating circumstances, it is their duty not to
add anything, but to leave the penalty as it stands. It may
be that a provision of this kind in the law was intended to
apply to a case somewhat like that suggested by the district
attorney. Suppose a man knowing that his wife had been in
improper relations with another man, and roused to anger by
such knowledge, but postponing from time to time, while he
meets this man, the execution of his vengeance upon him, he
finally concludes to and does kill him, that would be murder,
a clear case of murder under the law; but those circumstances
might be such as would convince the jury that the extreme
penalty of the law ought not to be inflicted. There may be
other cases. I simply give that as an illustration. But the
object of this penalty, gentlemen of the jury, is to protect
society; and the jury should not interfere with it under any
circumstances, unless the circumstances are such as to satisfy
them that this provision should be added to the verdict.
"If you reach the conclusion of guilt, ' guilty as indicted,'
it is your duty to return that verdict; and, unless you unanimously agree that the verdict should be qualified as the statute
provides you may qualify it, there can~be no qualification. It
must be the unanimous conclusion of the jury. The question
for .you to ask yourselves is this: Are the circumstances in
this case such, if you reach the conclusion that the defendant
is. guilty as indicted, as to require you, upon your oaths, to
interfere with the penalty fixed by law ?"
Smith was indicted for the murder with a hatchet on November 15, 1897, of the wife of another man. At the trial,
the government introduced circumstantial evidence tending to
support the indictment; and also evidence that the defendant
hired a room in the dwelling-house of the husband and wife;

WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

that, some time before the homicide, the two men had a
quarrel about her, and both were arrested, convicted and
imprisoned on charges of assault; that the defendant at one
time threatened to kill her if she ever resumed living with her
husband; and that the defendant was quarrelling with her
just before her death.
The judge instructed the jury as follows: "Under a recent
statute the jury are authorized, in returning a verdict of guilty
of murder, if the evidence justifies them on their consciences
in so doing, to qualify the verdict by the addition of the words
without capital punishment.'
"The law inflicting the penalty of death for murder has not
been repealed. That is the penalty which the law fixes."
"Tba legislature probably intended that in cases where there
were some mitigating or palliating circumstances, where it
was apparent from the evidence that the crime was not the
most heinous crime of murder, or where there was doubt
whether the circumstances indicated premeditation, perhaps,
that the jury might qualify their verdict by adding the
words 'without capital punishment.' But it was evidently
contemplated by Congress that there would be cases in which
juries would not be justified in so qualifying theik verdicts, and
therefore the law remains, and unless the verdict is so qualified
the penalty of the law is unchanged."
"1If you find that the defendant is guilty, you will vindicate
the law and uphold it by returning a verdict of ' guilty as indicted.' Whether you qualify it or not is a matter for you to
determine. If you conclude to qualify it, it must be by the
unanimous decision of the twelve jurors."
In each case, the defendant excepted to the instructions of
the court concerning the act of Congress of January 15, 1897;
and, after verdict of "guilty as indicted," and sentence of
death, appealed to the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia, which affirmed the judgment, Justice Shepard dissenting. 26 Wash. Law Rep. 469. Writs of certiorari were
thereupon granted by this court under the act of Congress of
March 3, 1897, c. 390. 29 Stat. 692; 171 U. S. 690.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Xtfr. George tKearney for Winston.
was on his brief.
.Mr. Samuel D. Truitt for Strather.
was oil his brief.

-Mr. Clharles H. Turner
Xr. Tracy I. Jeffords

.Mr. Hleniy E. Davis for the United States.
Attorney General Boyd was on his brief.

2r. F. S.

-Mr.Assistant

ey Smith for Smith.

Mtv. JUSTjCE GRAY, after stating the cases, delivered the
opinion of the court.
By section 5339 of the Revised Statutes, regnacting, earlier
acts of Congress, "every person who commits murder"
"within any fort, arsenal, dockyard, magazine, or in any other
place or district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States," "shall suffer death."
The act of January 15, 1897, c. 29,.entitled "An act to reduce the cases in which the penalty of death may be inflicted,"
provides, in section 1, that in all cases in which the accused is
found guilty of the crime of murder under section 5339 of the
Revised Statutes "the jury may qualify their verdict by adding thereto ' without capital punishment;' and whenever the
jury shall return a verdict qualified as aforesaid the person
convicted shall be sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor
for life." 29 Stat. 487.
The question presented and argued in each of the three
cases now before the court is of the construction and effect of
this act of Congress.
The hardship of punishing with death every crime coming
within the definition of murder at common law, and the
reluctance of jurors to concur in a capital conviction, have
induced American legislatures, in modern times, to allow some
cases of murder to be punished by imprisonment, instead of
by death. That end has 'been generally attained in one of
two Ways.
First. In some States and Territories, statutes have been.
passed establishing degrees of the crime of murder, requiring

WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the degree of murder to be found by the jury, and providing
that the courts shall pass sentence of death in those cases only
in which the jury return a verdict of guilty of murder in the
first degree, and sentence of imprisonment when the verdict
is guilty of murder in the lesser degree. See Rqpt v. Utah,
104 U. S. 631, and 110 U. S. 574; -avi,8 v. Utah, 151 U. S.
262, 267-269.
For instance, the statutes of the Territory of Utah contained
the following'provisions : "Every murder perpetrated by poison, lying in wait, *or any other kind of wilful, deliberate,
malicious and premeditated killing; or committed in the perpetration of, or attempt to perpetrate, any arson, rape, burglary or robbery; or perpetrated from a premeditated design
unlawfully and maliciopsly to effect the death of any other
human being, other than him who is killed; or perpetrated
by any act greatly dangerous to the lives of others, and evincing a depraved mind regardless of human life, is murder in the
first degree; and any other homicide, committed under such
circumstances as would have constituted murder at common
law, is murder in the second degree." "Every person guilty
of murder in the first degree shall suffer death, or, upon the
recommendation of the jury, may be imprisoned at hard labor
in the penitentiary for life, at the discretion of the court; and
every person guilty of murder in the second degree shall be
imprisoned at hard labor in the penitentiary for not less than
five nor more than fifteen years." Compiled Laws of Utah
of 1876, ยง 1919, 1920, pp. 585, 586.
In the leading case of .opt v. Utah, this court held that
evidence that the accused was in a state of voluntary intoxication at the time of the killing, (which would not have been
competent in defence of an indictment .for murder at common
law,) was competent for thd consideration of the jury upon the
question whether he was in such a condition as to be capable
of deliberate premeditation, constituting murder in the first
degree under the statute. 104 U. S. 631. Upon a second
trial of the same case, the territorial court, in charging the
jury, having used this language, "That an atrocious and
dastardly .murder has been committed by some person is

OCTOBER TERIK-,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

apparent, but in your deliberations you should be careful not
to be influenced by any feeling," the conviction was again reversed by this court, saying that this observation was naturally regarded by the jury as an instruction that the offence,
by whomsoever committed, was murder in the firsi degree;
whereas it was for the jury, having been informed as to what
was murder, by the laws of Utah, to say whether the facts
made a case of murder in the first degree or murder in the
second degree. 110 U. S. 582. And in Calton v. Utah, 130
U. S. 83, a sentence of death upon a conviction of murder in
the first degree was reversed, because the judge had not called
the attention of the jury to their right, under the statute, to
recommend imprisonment for life at hard labor in the penitentiary in place of the punishment of death; and without a
recommendation of the jury to that effect the court could
impose no other punishment than death. While those decisions have no direct bearing upon the question now in judgment, they are important as illustrating the steadfastness with
which the full and free exercise by the jury of powers newly
conferred upon them by statute in this matter has been upheld
and guarded by this court as against the possible effect of any
restriction or omission in the rulings and instructions of the
judge presiding at the trial.
Second. The difficulty of laying down exact and satisfactory definitions of degrees in the crime of murder, applicable
to all possible circumstances, has led other legislatures to prefer the more simple and flexible rule of conferring upon the
jury, in every case of murder, the right of deciding whether
it shall be punished by death or by imprisonment. This
method has been followed by Congress in the act of 1897.
The act of Congress confers this right upon the jury in
broad and unlimited terms, by enacting that "in all cases in
which the accused is found guilty of the crime of murder,"
"the jury may qualify their verdict by adding thereto ' without capital punishment,'" and that "whenever the jury shall
return a verdict qualified as aforesaid" the sentence shall be
to imprisonment at hard labor for life.
The right to qualify a verdict of guilty, by adding the words

WINSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"without capital punishment," is thus conferred upon the jury
in all cases of murder. The act does not itself prescribe, nor
authorize the court to prescribe, any rule defining or circumscribing the exercise of this right; but commits the whole
matter of its exercise to the judgment and the consciences of
the jury. The authority of the jury to decide that the accused
shall not be punished capitally is not limited to cases in which
the court, or the jury, is of opinion that there are palliating
or mitigating circumstances. But it extends to every case in
which, upon a view of the whole evidence, the jury is of opinion that it would not be just or wise to impose capital punishment. How far considerations of age, sex, ignorance, illness
or intoxication, of human passion or weakness, of sympathy
or clemency, or the irrevocableness of an executed sentence of
death, or an apprehension that explanatory facts may exist
which have not been brought to light, or any other consideration whatever, should be allowed weight in deciding the question whether the accused should or should not be capitally
punished, is committed by the act of Congress to the sound
discretion of the jury, and of the jury alone.
The decisions in the highest courts of the several States
under similar statutes are not entirely harmonious, but the
general current of opinion appears to be in accord with our
conclusion. State v. Shields, 11 La. Ann. 395; State v. Mevin.,
11 La. Ann. 535; Rill v. State, 72 Georgia, 131; Cyrus v.
State, 102 Georgia, 616; Walto v. State, 57 Mississippi, 533;
Spairi v. State, 59 Mississippi, 19; People v. Bawden,, 90 California, 195; People v. lram.aunu, 110 California, 609.
The instructions of the judge to the jury, in each of the
three cases now before this court, clearly gave the jury to
understand that the act of Congress did not intend or authorize the jury to qualify their verdict by the addition of the
words "without capital punishment," unless mitigating or
palliating circumstances were proved.
This court is of opinion that these instructions were erroneous
in matter of law, as undertaking to control the discretionary
power vested by Congress in the jury, and as attributing to
Congress-an intention unwarranted either by the express

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

words or by the apparent purpose of the statute; and there.
fore in each of these cases
Judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded to the
Court of Appeals with directions to reverse the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and to
order a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE McKENiKA

dissented.

BELLINGHAM BAY & BRITISH COLUMBIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. NEW WHATCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 96. Argued December 16, 189S. -Decided

January8, 1899.

An answer by the defendant in an action in a state court brought to enforce
a lien created by a reassessment of taxes upon its real estate, which sets
up that the notice of the reassessment was insufficient, and that by reason
thereof its property was sought to be taken without due process of law,
and in conflict with the terms of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, raises a Federal question of which this court has jurisdiction.
When a notice is duly given to landowners by municipal authorities in full
accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the State touching the
time and place for determining the amounts assessed upon their lands
for the cost of street improvements, such notice, so authorized by the
legislature, will not be set aside as ineffectual on account of the shortness of the time unless the case is a clear one.
In view of the character of the improvements in this case, of the residence
of the plaintiff in error, of the almost certainty that it must have known
of the improvements, and of the action of the Supreme Court of the
State, ruling that the notice was sufficient, it is held by this court to
have been sufficient.
Before proceedings for the collection of taxes, sanctioned by the Supreme
Court of a State, are stricken down in this court, it must clearly appear
that some one of the fundamental guarantees of right contained in the
Federal Constitution has been invaded.

PROR to February 16, 1891, there were in the State of
Washington two cities known as Whatcom and New Whatcom. On that date they were consolidated in conformity

